

R. G. CO.,
107 Kent Street, SycXxiey,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
aaoBART.
i#*
fiadleys Orient fiotsl.
PIONEER
LEATHER
Bif
IUPS ELTIMG
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son. Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
T Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents
for Portable
and Fixed ..
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
SIMPLE INSTANTLY STARTED ECONOMICAL.
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
III!
vv
It
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
EM i m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch :
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
Victorian Depot: 45 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
WALKER ’S k|lmarn ° ck WHISKY
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
HOSE
For DELIVERY, SUCTION, STEAM, OR ROCK DRILLS.
Send Your Enquiries and ORDERS to —
Works at—
SILVERTOWN,
ESSEX, ENGLAND.
THE S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO
Telephone imos. 882, 2435. 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
30 PITT STREET, SYDWBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
THE WORLD'S BEST
OIL ENCINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON'S (Thetford, England),
World Famcus Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer. Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
m
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists Supplies,
(Wholesale and Retail).
I
I
156-160 Elizabeth Street,
69 Swanston Street,
148 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE .
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
HELIDON SPA WATER.
COUNTERACTS QUICKLY ALL
rFVir H" 'l i.
GOLLIN & CO.,
A
The Bulletin
Tol. 29—No. 1456.]
[Thursday, January 9, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Conan Doyle, Through the Magic Door, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Reynolds,'Mrs. Baillie, Broken Off ; a novel; 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Bland, H., The Happy Moralist, 4s, post 6d.
Hutchinson, Nature’s Moods and Tenses, 9s, post Bd.
Searcy, In Australian Tropics, 12s 6d, post Sd.
Wyllarde, Mafoota, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, post 6cL
Finn, Pets and How to Keep Them, 6s, post 6d.
Frazer, J.G., The Golden Bough, Part IV. Adonis Attis
Osiris, A Study in Magic and Religion, 12s, post Bd.
Callendar, Sea Kings of Britain, 2s 6d, post 4d.
Crorjkctt, W.S., Footsteps of Scott, 4s, post 4d.
Wilkinson and Swinburn, The Royal Navy, colored
illustrations, “ Black’s Series,” 245, postage Is
Sturges, Poultry Culture for Profit, Is 3d, post 4d"
Winterhottom, Cotton Spinning Calculations, 9s, post 8d
She Hey, John Harvey and his Times, 9s, post Bd. 1
t ' v S? r >” or Lessons in Patience, Is, post 3d
Tro^fr I 'ThfpT 8 ’ tings by Latham, 50s.
trotter, The Citizen and his Duties, Is Ed, post Ed
Ramsay MacDonald, Socialism, Is 3d, post 3d.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS.—Two Cood Nature-Study Books
From range to sea.-a bird lover’s way, by
CHARLES BARRETT, with 40 Original and Unique
Photographs. 64 pages 8f x s£. Art paper cover in two
colors by Ruby Lindsay. Special Introduction by Donald
Macdonald. Is., posted Is. Id. “ A Charming Christ-
mas Gift.”— I This Bulletin.
Glimpses of Australian bird life.—Being 3i
Unique and Wonderful Photographs direct from Life,
with Special Notes by Robert Hall (author of “Birds of
Southern Australia,” Us. 6d.). Is., posted Is. 1d-
“. . . A praiseworthy attempt. . . the notes are (as might
be expected) \ery much to the point.”—Natube.
'HE NATIVE COMPANION.”
An Australian Magazine of Art, Literature
and Life. Edited by E. J. Brady.
6d. Monthly, or 6/- per year, post free.
THOS. C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
expeetei
T
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma ; and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
A/osanwo
zlsnr
/)r*~wAv\v^
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK FOR HUDSON’S-Take no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/6.
May be taken daily by old and young. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
Food, and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemi.-' ' ;r post free from the Sole
Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, on receipt of 6 in stamps of any Statf.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent street W., London. [l.
The RED PAGE
Dulcie Deamer, the young Maoriland girl
who made her sensational debut in literature
by winning the first prize in the recent Lone
Hand story competition with an effort that
displays remarkable promise, is the daughter
of a doctor at Featherston, M.L. She is
evidently taking her work seriously, for she
is about to set off on a wander jahr, chiefly
to gain that larger experience in life that is
especially necessary to the woman novelist.
She has joined the Taylor-Carrington
Dramatic Co., which tours the whole of
Maoriland, taking in every country town-
ship. The late liobt. Brough, a personal
friend of the family, thought highly of her
chance on the stage ; but Miss Deamer re-
gards this project rather as an educational
experience than as a training for a life-work.
Her sister, Dorothea, has a taste for art, and
certain drawings of hers submitted to The
Lone Hand showed a promise as remarkable
as Dulcie’s writing. The Lone Hand is to
be congratulated upon having “ discovered ”
so talented a family.
“SO LONG!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
West, where the last grey light
Haloes the hills about,
There where the writhing wheel-track white
Runs like a whip-lash out.
The coach creaks on, and the pale day dies,
And T hunger here by the doorway-sill
For his outstretched arms and his glowing eyes—
While he calls—son and lover through good and
ill—
“ So long ! ”
And my lover still.
Tracks where he rode and laughed
Home through the beaded dew,
Fields where he hung to the wrenching haft
While the leaping plough drove through,
The half of the cloven heart of me
Rides out where the dwindling coach-teams wend :
Hark ! he calls, and the wheels mourn hollowly
On the groaning bridge at the gully-bend,
“ So long ! ”
Through the red day-end.
There in the lonely stall
The gaunt grey shadows slip.
The patched plough-harness blurs on the wall,
The dangling drag-chains dip,
And here where the shamefaced dead day shines,
(O frost-clamped winter and stricken spring !)
The fumbling night-wind wakes and whines
Through his own low room like a guilty thing,
“ So long !”
To me sorrowing.
I am bowed —am I also blind?
Have I trusted overmuch
To the holding of bonds that should always bind,
To the thralling of tone and touch ?
Ah ! I should not covet as now, perchance,
Reprieve for my own small tragedy
And the breaking string in my harp Romance,
It has been—see, he beckons and calls to me,
“ So long !
And must always be.
Down by the dog-leg fence
The mad cicada whirs,
The grave gums girdle the wide Far-Hence,
Like white-limbed worshippers,
The low sun glories a lifted head,
The swift hoofs stab through the puffing dust,
And keen through my cold heart scabbarded
Strikes the gusty cry of the wanderlust—
“ So long ! ”
Like a dagger-thrust.
Slow, slow !—where the brown hill dips—
I will climb tc the rail, and then
I may catch the last light on his eyes and lips, .
0 man in a world of men,
My straight, strong son—and the quick tears
spring,
And group on my lashes and cloud the light,
While his tones through my torn heart echoing
Drift back through a barrenness infinite,
“ So long ! ”
As a lover’s might.
Gone !—Dark and a blank again,
Where the dragging dust hangs white ;
A dyop strikes streaking across the pane—
’Twill be black on the roads to-night:
Yet my neck glows warm where he held me then,
And the straggling grey of my brow among
One dear spot burns, where he bent again
And kissed me—my best-loved, straight and
strong—
“ So long ,! ”
O Lord, how long l
VIC.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
MEN WHO HAVE FLOHN.
most interesting fact brought
out in the American Aero Club’s
, ~ publication, Navigating the Air, a
scientific statement of the progress of
aeronautical science up to the present
time (Heinemann, per Dymock’s Library,
Sydney) is that the Wright Brothers
have, at least for themselves, solved the
problem of actual flight. The achieve-
ments of these flying-men have always
been shrouded in mystery. Recognising
the need for secrecy with such a revolu-
tionary invention in their possession, the
Wright Brothers have conducted their
experiments in a park of their own,
access to which has always been
jealously guarded. But from time to
time they have given proofs of their
powers of flying to properly accredited
witnesses.
The Wright Brothers began experi-
menting with their motor flyer in 1903,
and by the next year they had made 105
flights, and succeeded in changing the
course of their aeroplane from one dead
against the wind to a curved path, where
cross currents might be encountered. In
1905, with a new machine, they made
flights up to twenty-four miles, made in
circular sweeps. But by this time the
news of their achievements had begun to
spread abroad, though the experimenters
had made arrangements with the local
press not to notice what was going
on above their heads. So, in order
to preserve their secrets, these men
who had flown had to terminate their
flights and dismantle their machine.
During 1906 they made no flights, as
they were negotiating with intending
purchasers. And now it is reported that
they are in treaty for the sale of their
invention to the German War Oflice.
There can be no doubt of the fact
that the Wright Brothers can fly. Tes-
timony is printed in this book recording
actual flights. One eye-witness saw a
distance of twenty-four miles covered by
Wilbur Wright, at a distance of about
fifty feet from the ground, in about 35
minutes.
The operator was going first north, then
west, then south, and then east, guiding
and controlling his machine at will. When
the machine came to earth at the end of the
flight it did so with a gliding motion, giving
no perceptible jar or jolt to the operator.
Another observer states that he stood
within a few feet of machine and saw it
start on the track upon which it acquired
initial speed. The operator seemed to
be able to elevate or lower his aeroplane
at will, and landed as gracefully as a
bird just in front of the building in
which the machine was kept.
I was astonished to see farmers, driving
home from the city, stop and watch the
flight for ten or fifteen minutes, and then
drive on again ; but I suppose they lived
near-by, and had seen the machine in flight
many times before.
Evidently to the local farmer there
was nothing more remarkable in a man
flying than in a man driving an automo-
bile. And a dozen years ago the auto-
mobile was only a dream.
But while the Wrights have success-
fully demonstrated the possibility of
flight without serious accident, scientific
men all over the world—except in Aus-
tralia—are busy investigating the subject
of flight upon other lines. One remark-
able theory is put forward to account for
the conditions of bird-flight. This observer
has come to the conclusion that the lift-
ing power of a bird like an albatross is
due almost solely, during steady flight, to
the rarefaction of the air that is caused
over the wings and tail of the bird. This
support is constant during flight whether
the wings are rising, descending, or
extended in soaring. This air-rarefac-
tion above the bird existent even while
it is actually lifting its wings, is
possible because the bird's horizontal
sppqd is nine times greater than the ver-
tical speed of the centres of effort. There
is no air-compression under the albatross’s
wings when soaring, because these are
held flat. This important principle of
air-rarefaction formed by the wedge-
shaped front edge of a bird’s wing, throw-
ing the air currents up, and consequently
leaving a partial vacuum over the wing,
will doubtless be applied to the aeroplanes
of the near future.
. .
As to the shape that the flying machine
of the future will take, the probabilities
point not to the rectangular box-like
aeroplane with outspread wings and a
long neck, as used by the Wrights and
Santos-Dumont, but to a bird-like thing
composed of small tetrahedral cells. K ites
of this construction show a remarkable
steadiness in the presence of gusts, and
are much less liable to capsize. One pi in-
ciple of stability is thus deduced to be :
small surfaces, well separated, and many
of them. And this compound tetrahedral
structure is so porous that a squall passes
right through and lifts the other side as
well as the side first struck ; and, so far,
only the Wrights-have been able to keep
their balance in a gust. Ihe tetra-
hedral structure, which may be likened to
a cloud of V-shaped wings, has less lift-
ing power than horizontal surfaces ;
but this is compensated for by its
equilibrium and the consequent greater
factor of safety. As a war machine
and that will be the guise in which the
flying machine will make its debut —the
tetrahedral cellular construction possesses
the advantage of being able to survive
even when badly riddled with shot. Ihe
probability, therefore, is that the
Wrights’ remarkable achievements are
due chiefly to developed skill resulting
from long practice, and that at this time
they, of all humankind, are the only
people why could fly wfith safety. The
machine they use is a box-like structure
with large cells. But it is probable that
the tetrahedral small-cell construction
will be used in the first universally
practical flying machine. The single
plane of the sea-gull, involving delicate
problems of balancing, will be man’s last
achievement in the art of aerial sailing
with rigid wings. The art of single-plane
flying is far too difficult for man to
master at this pioneer stage. With the
cell-form, but especially with the tetra-
hedral cell, practicable aerial navigation
is at hand. .
Even in the existing state of the art (say
the Wrights’) it is easy to design a practical
and durable flyer that will carry an operator
and supplies of fuel for a flight of 500 miles
at a speed of 50 miles an hour.
Incidentally, it may be noted that the
advent of the flyer will solve all the pro-
blems of naval defence at present agi-
tating the world-powers and Australia.
The first country that can build a fleet of
stable flyers can boss the world. Is
there any reason why that country
shouldn’t be Australia?
The Heart of the Rose, Volume One,
Number One—it sounds naive and symbolic
and pretty enough ; and all its rights are
reserved. And it is a Quarterly Magazine and
is published at Melbourne by T. C. Lothian,
in the year of the Commonwealth Seven.
“It will appeal,” says the luscious ad.,
“ to those who have caught a glimpse of the
ioyousness of Heaven, the loneliness of
Hell, the horror of Purgatory, or the
wisdom of Faeryland—and to no others.
And it is full of neat little essays about roses
and other guileless, girly-girly little, things,
and it is perfumed with pretty little pressed
Words And, as is but fitting, it contains an
article by Bernard O’Dowd. The article is
termed “Morgana Mine and other Reali-
ties,” and it is not anything to do with
Mount Morgan or any other mines. 1 hough
it might be, for you can never be very sure
of O’Dowd. But he hasa pretty prose fancy
of the Wattle River—a river a continent
wide : “ The Wattle River rises in Queens-
land about, say, May every year, and it
flows in foaming golden crest on crest through
June, and New South Wales, and July, and
Riverina, and August, and September, and
Victoria, trickling through every valley and
every day, and lapping every mountain side,
and disregarding even the sea, plashes and
tumbles, and leaps and rolls, over October
and Tasmania and November and December,
until it reaches Christmas and the Pacific . . .
And now we have to wait with patience for
three months, when the River of the Rose,
Volume One, Number Two, with all its rights
reserved, will rise in March and Melbourne,
and flow through Lothian and Little Collins-
street, and trickle through April and the Red
Page, and lap with a gentle persistence
against the pockets of the Philistine till it
falls, with a pleasing plash like the trickle
of coin into the till, into the peaceful, pond-
like heart of the Symbolists.
A SPOOK NOVEL.
I'Y'XJ'HEN William T. Stead, in a
\\ portentious “foreword,” recom-
mends a book to the reader, we
may confidently expect either bedsteads or
spooks. In the case of A Soul's Pilgrimage,
by Annie Bright (George Robertson, Melb.),
it is spooks. And not only ordinary spooks,
but Stead’s own private “lady-help” from
Spookland, his alleged “Julia.” The novel
is quite commonplace except for its spooks,
whose business seems to be to watch over
and direct the heroine’s literary labors. The
book is obviously autobiographical. Mrs.
Bright is the editor of what Stead terms
‘ ‘ one of the best periodicals devoted to the
study of psychic matters,” The Harbinger of
Light, published in Melbourne ; and
the heroine’s husband is the editor of a
periodical called More Light. After the death
of her husband the heroine takes to
the planchette and automatic writing, and
attendances at “ seances ” by “mediums,”
and is much edified by their quite common-
place remarks. Of course, if Mrs. Bright
believes in spooks and likes to write about
spooks, she has every right; and if she is as
much under the protecting care of her spooks
as her heroine was under that of “Julia”
and her spook-friends, the book does not
need any critical commendation. The in-
fluence of her spooks will sell the book, and
Mrs. Bright will make a fortune. But it
looks as if this is a case where the spooks
will have to hustle.
MOTHERHOOD.
Mother of Christ long slain, forth glided she ,
Following the children joyously astir
Under the cedrus and the olive tree,
Pausing to let their laughter float to her.
Each voice ari echo of a voice more dear.
She saw a little Christ in every face.
When lo ! another woman, pressing near, ■
Yearned o'er the tender life that filled the place.
And Mary sought the woman?s hand, and said :
“ I know thee not, but know thee memory-tossed.
And what hath ltd thee here, as I am led—
These bring thee to a child beloved and lost.
“ Ho to radiant was my little one !
And He was fair,
Yea, fairer than the fairest sun.
And like its rays through amber spun
His sun-bright hair.
Still can I see it shine and shine! ”
—“ Even so,” the woman said, “ was mine
“ His ways were ever darling ways "
And Mar y sni tied,
‘‘ So soft, so clinging ! Glad relays
Of love were all His precious days.
My little child
Was like an infinite light that gleamed."
—“Even so was mine," the woman dreamed.
Then whispered Mary: “ Tell me thou
Of thine!" Andshe :
“ Oh, mine was rosy as a bough
Blooming with roses, sent, somehow,
To bloom for me !
His balmy fingers left a thrill
Within my breast that warms me still.”
Then gazed she down somt wilder, darker hour,
And said, when Mary questioned, knowing not:
“ Who art thou, mother of so sweet a flower l ”
“ I am the mother of Iscariot."
AGNES LEE (in N. American Review).
From the prolific press of Lothian comes A Guide
to the Study of Australian Butterflies (3s. 6rf.), by
W. J. Kainbow, Entomologist to the Bydney
Museum. The aim of the writer is to offer to the
reader who doesn’t know the rhopalocera from,
—say, rhododendrons —some knowledge of the but-
terflies of Australia. Much of the material in the
way of life-histories is now published for the first
time. The book is amply illustrated, and
lucidly written.
To the Red Page Back Yard, 40 pages. IpF"


Av
ace
reach of Every Purse through the Economising Influence of
oraems' Famous Low Prices
Our Ready-to-Wear Costume Department offers unequalled
opportunities for the fair sex to secure the latest fashions,
ready-to-wear. Our range of sizes enables us to meet
the requirements of almost every figure j if desired we
alter to exact fit, FREE OF CHARGE.
Smart Blouses
Typical of many others at
The New Palace Emporium.
No. 1189.—Ladies’ Japanese Silk
Shirt, Ivory, Navy, and Black.
Sizes, S.W., W., and 0.5., 14/6.
No. 453.—1v0ry Japanese Silk
Blouse, tucked and hemstitched,
detachable Collar, open in front.
Sizes, S.W., W., and 0.5., 17/6.
No. 103.—Japanese Silk Blouse, with
detachable Collar or without
Collar, Ivory, Black, Navy.
Sizes, S.W., \V., and 0.5., 15/6.
No. 454. —Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, with Double Silk Yoke,
long sleeves, open in front. Sizes,
S.W., W., and 0.5., 16/6.
No. 404. —Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, trimmed Valenciennes
Insertion, Elbow Sleeves. Sizes,
S.W., W., and 0.5., 18/9.
No. 451, —Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, tucked and hemstitched,
detachable Collar, to fasten in
front, first quality. Sizes, S.W.,
W., and 0.5., 21/-.
No. 418.—Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, trimmed Valenciennes
Lace Insertion, long sleeves, 13/6.
No. 107. —Japanese Silk Shirt, Ivory,
Black, and Navy, with detach-
able Collar or without Collar.
Sizes, S.W., \V., and 0.5., 11/9.
No. 1187. —Japanese Silk Blouse,
tucked and trimmed Silk Bead!
ing, Ivory, Black, and Navy
Sizes, S.W., W„ and 0.5., 16/6
.
'
-
V. !
-
,/M
•.. V '
..- J
t *fo,v
, c
m/M>
m
m
)\c\
fp
IL
wmmt
%/
x
Wi
mm
m
:- - M&r J
■■■ ’'■■■
■ / .
m i
/
M
103
107 n
*5l
lit
nv?
Wr
V
M'
i lav *\\ i
xs
*o*
\
Uf
1
>
) MX
"7n
,-m
1187
*lB
*s*
*53
-
Smart Silk Shirts
and Blouses
Aimom Hoedeims'
Famous Low Prices
Pretty
Silk
Frocks
Mtiiosy
horde® 8
1 ■ "" Jl "
•——
**.<*•
3512
m
■
m
3641 ■
.
m
ry
■*"
t P
■ M
m
1
SSa%
mm
X <r
rf
'
'
Sfi
v.M
3644
3635
3676
35/0
35/3
V
■
SEND FOR NEW SUMMER FASHION PORTFOLIO.
POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
Frocks for
Young Australians
No. 3616—Child’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Frock, trimmed Valen-
ciennes—
-20 22 24 26in,
24/-. 25/6 27/- 28/6
No. 3512—Child’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Frock, tucked and hem-
stitched—
-20 22 24 26in.
. 13/3 14/9 16/3 17/.9
Similar style, semi-fitting at waist-
13/6 15/- 16/6 18/-
No. 3513—Girl’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Dress, tucked and trimmed
Malines Lace—
-27 30 33 36in.
22/9 24/3 25/9 27/3
No. 3649—Maid’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Blouse and Skirt Costume,
trimmed Malines Lace and
Insertion—
-39 42 45in.
. 36/- 38/6 40/6
Similar Style 30/- 32/- 34/-
No. 3639—Child’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Frock—
-20 22 24 26in.
20/- 21/6 23/- 24/6
No. 3510—Girl’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Dress, tucked and hem-
stitched—
-27 30 33 36in.
18/6 20/- 21/6 23/-
No. 3641—Child’s Tussore Silk
Frock—
-20 22 24 26in.
16/9 18/3 19/9 21/-
Also semi-fitting at waist—
-16/9 18/3 19/9 21/-
No. 3644—Girl’s Tussore Silk Dress,
trimmed Malines Lace to match-
-27 30 33 36in.
24/- 25/6 27/- 28/6
Similar style, without lace at foot-
-20- 21/6 23/- 24/6
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S Y 33 N E Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
are carefidly^il tendecPby^onr* highi^ei^ciES’
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER^
Will Anprape for BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition.
Is. How to Dance, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, ‘2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, Tiie Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio. 2/6. Heptamf.ron. 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Busuranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Manning’s Great Horse
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Book, 10s. 6d. post free. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 carts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards : Love., Business, Futurity, and witn
full directions, is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, i 243 pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Mid wives
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wresi ling,
Is.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Ivoko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Rasy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, l>y Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
%WAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
cat fr°ee es 201 Bourke St., Melbourne
IP
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
Rented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to out a sample of our Gutta Perclia
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distriDute among friends. In order that our goods maybe appreciated,
we require vou to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and lin addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, Src.
This offer is at least worth investigating. It costs nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
great offer is otilv open for a limited time,
Write at once. THE GDTTA PERCHA TRADING CO..
120 Aah St., Sydney.
5
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sh Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only b, J. C. ENO, Ltd., ’ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON, EKQ.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c.. everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO 3DBF3T COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Valuable Presents
FRE
N© MONEY WANTED
• •
We have decided to give away £.5000 in good and
useful Presents in order to introduce
The Best Penny Picture Post Cards in Australia
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
Girls’ Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver
i Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.,
/-H/C-M AtA/AY AS PRESENTS tothosewho will distribute our
&'rds EN p^v A pTst Cards are*our Great Specialty and we will send you
anv quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the supen-
an v quaiiLiiy c mav se ll among your friends or keep for
vour own and at anv time within one month after you receive the Cards send us the amount
due to us and we will send you any Present you choose from our Grand Prize Lists of good,
usefu? and valuable Presents (sent With the Cards) without any further Payment. Remember ! You
mav Order V anv quantity from One Doz to Ten Do*, and we require no money whatever
with vour Order You may relv on our treating you fairly, as it is to our interest ,o do so. A
THi h ai y «sftlif'ited Simply send us vour Order for One, Two, Three, or up to Pen Dozen, and
, Jwi 1 forward the’Cards to vour Address. We want a great number of Agents, and we want to
show you what we can do in Penny Post Cards and the Valuable Presents we give away
to our Agents.
THE TRADE
SUPPLIED.
The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W.
C-B-
TAILOR-MADE
OORSEXS.
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas,
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance holdssway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
obtainable in all styles
FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to
-j. t. NEWPORT, SONS & GO.
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY; and BRISBANE.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.
DRINK ONLY
STUDY YOUR HEALTH.
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISKS OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Beautiful Home Decorations
y.v
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘•OUR FAVORITE” BOLD KVAMUL (Washable) Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, names, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
4 ‘ HAPOIiI\ ESAMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘BAPOUIJ*” BATH TUB EKAMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, " SAPOLIN " FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALEt STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL: A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
mm
K PDiLiLg.
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorders
Injure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS, Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That’s
what every one does who uses
1
m
I
Si
SOS
this splendid
preparation
for the hair.
If you don’t
want to
praise it, then
you must not
use it. You see,
you will be so pleased
with it that you will
just haire to tell your
* friends all about it.
Mger’s
<%air Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U S. A.
Winchester
if
m
J
it
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles and Pistols
Winchester make of
cartridges in all calibers
from .22 to .50 are accu-
rate, sure fire and relia-
ble. In forty years of gun
making we have learned
many things about am-
munition that no one
could learn in any other
way. When you buy
Winchester make of
cartridges you get the
benefit of this experience
Buy Only Winchester Make
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
_L Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
HER COLD was
Completely Cored
104 Morehead St., Redferk, Syd-
ney, N.S.W. Sept, i st, 1905. “My
daughter, aged 7, had a severe cola
which settled on her chest and
throat. She got relief from the first
dose of SCOTT’S Emulsion and soon
her cold was completely cured and
her general health thoroughly built
up.” (Mrs.) JESSIE FOSS
The REASON WHY
SCOTT’S CURES
The pure and powerful ingredients always used
in SCOTT’S Emulsion are made thoroughly
digestible by the original, perfected SCOTT
process of manufacture. They pass quick-
ly into the system and fly speedily to the
affected spot, healing and strengthening it.
Tills is specially true of
the chest and lungs.
SCOTTS
Always get the
Emulsion with
the mark of the
Scott process—
the Fishman.
EMULSION
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicine
IRIS H
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
T roublesome Cold, jit
Annoying Influenza &
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
,!iL.
m
mm
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
w
’SENDFOI«I
FREESAMPLE
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Congo is “Never-Leak ” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured bn BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by G. E. CRANE & SONS, Ltd., Sydney.
JOHN SANDERSON 8c SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
GEORGE WILLS 8c Co., Brisbane.
Post Free 6 cl . from “The
Bulletin ” Office
SUFFERED FOR THREE YEARS.
HAD TO PUT ANOTHER MAN ON TO DO HIS WORK.
BODY BECAME SO DENUDED OF FLESH
THAT CLOTHES HUNG LIKE A SACK.
Clements Tonic
“LIFTED ME FROM THAT SORRY STATE.**
“ It is six years ago now since I got all right
again,” Mr. Borwick remarked, .and I think it
was about up to me to have a change of luck, con-
sidering that I had been suffering for fully three
years. The pains that ran along my gums and
reached up to the top of my head were something
terrible, and half my time I did.not know what I
was doing. My adversities set in when I was
“ running the plank,” as they call it, on a boat
discharging blue metal, and I can assure you that
I was so broken down in health that I had to put
another man op to do my work about every other
week. Talk about neuralgia. lam sure nobody
could have it worse than I had, and as I found
such a grand cure for it, the least I can do is to let
humanity know all about it, for I daresay my ex-
perience will prove very helpful. Well, out of all
the medicines I tried to cure neuralgia, the only
one that was of any lasting benefit was Clements
Tonic, and when I say that after keeping going
with that remedy for a few weeks the fearful
pains all left me, and have never returned all these
years, it is the honest truth I am telling you.”
“ Is that the only ailment you have had ? ”
“ Indeed, no. All the time the neuralgia tor-
tures were at me I had other troubles to deal
with, for my digestion was just as bad as it could
be. Both from want of appetite, and also owing
to the pains about my jaws, eating was almost out
of the question ; but what was still more unfortu-
nate was the fact that the little I did force myself
to take to keep body and soul together had the
unhappy habit of disagreeing with me. And you
must remember that I was getting no sleep.
Neither night nor day—for weeks at a stretch
sometimes —could I get any rest, and, as you may
well imagine, the result was disastrous. I got so
terribly weak that ultimately I had to give up my
work altogether, and my body was so denuded of
flesh that my clothes hung about me like a sack.
Indeed, I was just going to have some of them
afltered about the time that I started on Clements
Tonic, and by some means or other the idea was
shelved for a while, for which I was afterwards
very glad, as in a few months I was as stout as
ever. Yes; it was quite a matter for regular
comment how well I was looking, and, thank
God, I felt well, too. For three years
previous to using Clements Tonic I was nothing
Mr. V. BORWICK, Storekeeper, of 286 and 288 Crown Rond,
Ultimo, relates his COMPLETE CURE to a Sydney reporter.
but a total wreck, for every part of my body
was adversely affected in some way or other. It
was my first experience of indigestion, and I sin-
cerely trust it will be my last, for I would rather
be dead and out of the world altogether than go
through such misery again. I got to feel as shaky
and uncomfortable as if everything in my
inside was going to pieces, and was so disturbed
and unsettled mentally that the least thing made
me irritable. My eyes always felt heavy and
swollen to such an extent that I could scarcely see
to read, and I felt so discontented and restless
that I could not stay indoors. Consequently, I
often wandered about outside, hardly knowing
what to do with myself, feeling as though death
would be a thousand times more welcome than the
wretched life I was leading, for I was in agony
everywhere. The pains in my chest were really
cruel, and I thought I had strained myself or
broken something between my shoulders owing to
the pain that was there. It was like getting hold
of a piece of meat, and tearing it in two —that was
the kind of feeling I had between the shoulders,
and my loins ached badly into the bargain.”
“ And have you never had a return of any of
those symptoms during the past six years?”
“No; upon my honor; and I have not had
that nasty bulged-out feeling in the stomach
either after eating my food. No, Clements Tonic
removed everything, even to the bitter taste of a
morning, and the fur that used to cover my
tongue, besides which it gave me permanent
relief from the many attacks of giddiness that I
had previously been subjected to. How much my
nerves accounted for the misery I had endured is
hard to say definitely, but they undoubtedly had
their fair share of responsibility, for I must tell
you that I was so highly nervous that I could not
stand the least excitement without getting all of
a tremble, and I had also contracted an uncon-
trollable practice of measuring the future with
nothing but trouble and worry in store. All I
could see before me was a continuance of my suf-
fering, only to be added to my misfortunes of
other descriptions, and now that you understand
the gloomy frame of mind I was in, you will
readily conceive why I speak so highly of Clements
Tonic for lifting me from the sorry state to the
happy and healthy condition I am now blessed
with. 5 ’
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, VICTOR BORWICK, of No. 286-288 Crown Road, Ultimo, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting- of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my statements—
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment ; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. (Sgd.) VICTOR BORWK h.
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this twenty-third day of August, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me. W. J. KYLE. J.P
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Memory.
I passed thro’ the city markets
On a cold and clear June day,
The air was full of dancing motes
From dust of the unbound hay.
The sunshine from the open door
Shone on mounds of gold and green :
The gleanings of moist meadow lands,
With the amber fruit between.
There was treasure of scented apples
That had prisoned the sunset’s glow,
Where anxious buyers and sellers
Went hurrying to and fro.
And the voices of the city
Came, as in a dream, to me.
I was a boy on the farm again,
By the grey Pacific sea.
The crow’s feet smoothed from my eyes,
And Youth, with a laugh, came back
Where the green sugar-cane enflanks
The thread of the bridle track.
I held her close in the shade ;
She lifted her face to me,
And Time stood still; we grew not old
In the farm beside the sea.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
In the Days of Shovel and Shove.
Shovel and slave ! In those far days we cursed
the name of Fat
Full heartily from morn till eve—we cursed the
shiny hat,
The pink, important pusher, and the clothes-rack
on his way
To take his tea with giggling girleens, flimsy-
frocked and gay.
We loathed the languid drawl of Wealth and
reckoned we were slaves,
Chained down—poor fools ! —to pay the way for
paunched and pursy knaves.
Shovel and strive and slave and shove ! Small
time to spell or speak,
When we bumped our brimming barrows down
the track at Spider Creek.
Those days we worked like demons in the glare of
brassy skies,
With blustering northern breezes blowing dust-
clouds in our eyes;
Those days we craved a future when we’d have no
need to sweat,
When we’d lounge in red morocco chairs, our
patent-leathers set
Upon a marble mantel, with the cracked ice near
at hand—
We builded giant castles in a green and gorgeous
land.
Those times we toiled in bowyangs, with the
sweat upon our brows,
And, o’ nights, lived free-and-easy underneath
the restless boughs.
Those times, we drew our cash in swags, and spent
it in a day
On beer and butcher’s meat and bread, on bills we
had to pay,
For boots, and dungarees, and shirts, and little
' things like that;
And as, next day, we swarmed again like black
ants on the flat,
We thought upon the few poor coins still left for
luxury,
Of how the sun was warm, and how our ship was
still at sea—
When we pushed the cart at Spider Creek in
blueys and a shirt,
And shovelled, knee-an’-knuckle, yards and yards
of yellow dirt.
But now we grind no more—we play a gayer
daily game;
We’re getting city-fatted and our souls are sunk
in shame,
For we forget that still they strive who’ve never
struck fair luck ;
We choose our friends from Fat, and not from out
the struggling ruck ;
We’ve dropped the old, free, careless talk of
righting rampant wrong.
And we mind the days—those pleasant days—
when we shoved hot dirt along—
When we found fair health (and little more but
three rough meals a day)
In humping up, from morn till eve, the navvy’s
one-man dray.
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
The Western Wind.
When dire December droops in heat
And all the land is fierce a-glow,
When forest fires are wild and fleet
And all the plains are brown below,
When sleepless men toss to and fro,
And seek to rest the weary mind,
We ask you then—say if ye know,
What demon rides the Western Wind ?
He sped yestreen with fiery feet
And parched the gentle things that grow ;
The clouds he drave in swift retreat
To find a home in hills of snow ;
And every sand-rill’s trickling flow
He sucked to death in fury blind —
No wonder that ye ask, I trow,
What demon rides the Western Wind !
He glared a-down the aching street
Till ev’ry eye was blear with woe;
And on the hills his breathing beat
And smote the panting kine a-row ;
And they who went to reap and sow
Left field and harvest all behind,
And fled in fear of deadly foe—
What demon rides the Western Wind ?
And all who felt his fury blow,
His lash so keen on human kind.
Cried out in deadly trembling, “ O !
What demon rides the Western Wind ? ”
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


• BEAXITIEUL • DURABLE®
f ire-proof • Inexpensive
T> ealllt *o K \T
WUNDERLICH
_ AIT
Ceilings, friezes
CORNICES. |
Wall Linings &.
• '
y
o
V.
r
a
CADBURY’S COCOA
is the idea.l beverage because it is rich
in strength - imparting essentials amd there-
fore promotes physical endurance and hardihood.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
*
TT ,
Tobacco
Manufactored in
.Richmond Virginia.
© by Larus &. Brother C?
Packed by RTowrxs * G> Agents. Sydney.
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot yet
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to It.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile (reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
English
Watch es
Prize Awards:- London 1851, Paris 1889,
London 1862. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
%
N
ROTHERHAMS
LONDON
SOLD BY
All Jewellers
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
JSEVERJF/ULS.
head office - Mutual Life Building, martin Place. :>vdney.
102
m
'
i*' ••!'. ' & '
•jdSsSdss
r e ft
i;
&»SS
WA.
:
fcSgS
wm
«W\
**f-
ijgH
.
• . - •
? , '§asBr
;
100
M?
A
? Ik®
.y- ■/''.
■ *fe
mi
&h"
"zf
&
Everyone
should Have
The “JAPA” Blind.
Unsurpassed for ElbsanCTC,
Durability, Cleanliness.
Recommended by Medical Profession.
“JAPA” SANITARY WINDOW BLIND. Used by Leading Hotels, Hospitals and Private Houses.
Hemmed and Taped (36 x 72 inches), Ready for Hanging, Variety of Designs, from 6d. to 3/6 each.
VALENTINE A. SOUL, Sydney and Melbourne.
ALL DRAPERS.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Directo
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- IGI KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereayh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS. TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Conilfirm's made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Tklki’HONK 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
I'*? K
ts*
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
filiffri 188
mmm
rHC-J
HOTEL
IHETROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and 7Vi/j Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quaym
TARirr, from 10s. 6d. per clay, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
E .RICH (9.UP.
SYDNEY and
Brisbane .
7
' y m
_, w ..__ —m •> , i
X f
*T?
vJ - _
r r wk ■
7
m
f > r ~ \*£. ■*» ✓*•, . ■:
- M M
~~ ~kv-
* r3i> v *4. v > 4
4*3k H &' I *
- 7 r
* ' • *
'<±rs
’ \ 7
m
s~/~
\
“''Vs
T'^T
7
'< »/" •> <S ->
4k


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1456.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 1908.
Price 6d
BELSHAZZARS FEAST.-(MODERN VERSION.)
The Times intimates that John Bull’s Asiatic friends are getting angry at Australia’s Asiatic exclusion policy, and Britain may yet have to
interfere and squash the White Australia idea. Bull depends nowadays on imported foods. He lives in terror lest he should lose command of
the sea, and be starved out. And—not being the Bull he was—he sees a writing on the wall bidding him make friends with all the niggers
he can before it is too late.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
*• A ustrnlin Jor t/ie A ustruliuntt*
Printed and Published bv William Maclkoi), of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only) mi ft n
Per Annum ... ... ••• ■*' l ~
Half-yearly ... ... n 7 n
Quarterly ... ... ••• J '
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-Sue
Shillings sterling you can have Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director,
llou) to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would, oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address. _
Business letter (ivitli regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Bailor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice..
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
the publishers. .. ~
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly conji-
Thk Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. _ The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
'lo ,1 111/ item's In lUaeh and H lute.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
amt interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
-—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn will be Pfffd
for as a suggestion only. The conditions wider which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., I ancoavei, h.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x Vein.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Sole A dvertising A gent in New Zealand:
Charles Haines, N.Z. Express Building, Wellington
from whom all information pertaining to advertising
is obtainable.
TTie^ixlZelztfi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 1908.
THE LONDON “TIMES” SPEAKS A
WARNING.
The Transvaal has experimented with the Hindu
as an immigrant, a settler, and a man and brother,
and the result there, as in the adjacent territory
of Natal, has been so unsatisfactory that there is
a tendency to give Ram Bhux notice to quit, or at
least notice that no more of him shall come in.
Now Ram has risen to state that he won’t obey
the law, and he has found powerful support in
London. The Times, speaking in a tone which
suggested that it was officially inspired to warn
Greater Britain, has intimated to the Transvaal
that, despite its Constitution and its Parliament
and its self-governing powers, Britain has the
means to make it come to “ a reasonable compro-
mise ” with the black man and the yellow gentle-
man and the brown intruder—such a compromise,
that is, as Britain may consider reasonable;
which is a broad hint that Britain may kick its
white dependency if that seems a line of less
resistance than arguing the point with its brown
or black or yellow friends. Then the big London
paper went further, and, in the language of the
cablegram :
The Times warns the colonies, now most proudly
proclaiming their determination to be white countries, of
their absolute dependence upon the Motherland for pro-
tection and for the power to remain white.
“ Without the protection of the Motherland, how long
could Australia, for instance, exclude the Japanese? Not
for six months after the Japanese had made up their
minds that Australia was worth an expedition.
“ The Imperial Government is not without means for
insisting upon reasonable compromises in the various
colonies in dealing with this, the gravest and most urgent
of Imperial problems.”
And on top of this the same paper, still speaking
in the same muffled, semi-official voice, proposed
the appointment of a commission to investigate
“ the Asiatic problem,” and added :
Possibly the evidence collected by the proposed com-
mission may convince some of our most exclusive colonies
that it is impossible to entirely bang the door against the
growing tide of population from the East. .. . Certain
parts of the Empire most suited to Orientals and least
suited to our habits might be specially reserved for
Oriental immigration.
That is our warning, written plain and large
and coarse and horrible on the wall. Incidentally,
it is Bull’s warning also—a warning to the people
of Bull that their country, with its great estates
its decaying agricultural population, its clry-ro
of gigantic wealth and gigantic poverty, and its
abject dependence on foreign lands for its daily
bread, inay yet have to buy peace by the sacrifice
of some of its white dependencies, even as decay-
ing Rome threw the Roman citizens of Nisibus a
the Persians, and sacrificed Gaul to the Goths and
other tribes. But it is with our own warning that
we have to do. That remark about certain, parts
of the empire “most suited to Orientals
Asiatics) and “least suited to our (i.e., Bull
“habits” that are to be “ specially reserved for
Asiatic immigration doesn’t refer to Canada, witn
its bitter cold; nor to Maoriland, which is tar
removed from Asia, and damp and chilly to
boot; nor even, to any great extent to teoutn
Africa, which is also far away from Asia,
and is fairly well crowded with its own nigger.
The statement is a solemn intimation to Australia:
(1) That, having no navy at all, and no army
worth speaking of, and not much population, it is
wholly dependent on Britain for defence ; (2) that
Britain has the power, and may have the in-
clination, to make Australia accept its views as to
the admission of Asiatics ; and (3) that, unless we
get out of our present state of helplessness,
Britain may yet set aside Northern Australia as a
reserve for Asiatic immigrants, and end the mag-
nificent dream of a white continent for ever and a
day. Incidentally it is suggested that the question
of the most suitable lands to set aside for a
nigger population should be referred to a great
Imperial commission of inquiry. Any person of
sense can estimate what show Northern Australia
would have before that commission of inquiry. It
would probably consist of delegates from Britain
where a temperature of 70 degrees is regarded
as next door to Hell; from Canada, where man is
regarded chiefly as an animal on skates, from
Maoriland, where a decently warm day is almost
unknown ; from South Africa, where nigger labor
is a matter of course ; and from India, where the
white man daren’t be seen working, lest he should
lose caste, and where, in consequence, it is
assumed that no white man can work in the
tropics. Tt would be no use telling such a com-
mission that the white man does hard work in
North Queensland ; that while doing hard work
he is the healthiest and (bar the Maonlander) the
longest-lived man, not only in the British empire,
but°in the world. The perspiring, unacclimatised
person from England would simply decide, in, his
white suit and his helmet, that the North isn t a
white man’s land, and would proceed to mark out
the line from Maryborough in Queensland across
to Shark Bay in Westralia, north of which the
nigger was to rage uncontrolled.
* * ¥ *
Plainly and distinctly the great English paper
whose foot is as the foot of an elephant, and
whose voice is as the authoritative bray of
Nicholas Bottom, the weaver, and whose opinions
are to John Bull as the views of a god, tells us
that this is the probable price of our foolish
defencelessness. If we could show an army and
navy which would count for something really
material in the empire’s defences ; if we could tell
Bull plainly that it would be cheaper for him to
fight Japan on the White Australia question with
us for an ally than to fight us with Japan for an
ally; if we could show him that it would
cost’ less to make India acquiesce in a
White Australia policy than to make Australia
agree to a nigger policy—then the position would
be different. But Australia can’t show ten first-
class ironclads and the other details of a navy to
match ; it can only show the old gunboa t Protector.
It can’t show even 100,000 trained and well-armed
soldiers. It has no arms factory, no arsenals, no
serviceable fortifications, no yards where it can
build its own cruisers. All it has is a scheme for
beginning the training of its young men, and a
plan for buying some tiny defence vessels from
England. And the Times, large, blatant and
authoritative, tells us truly that, without defences
of our own, our White Australia policy isn’t
worth a rush, and that a commission, appointed
in England, may commence any day to mark
out the huge section of Australia which
is to be set aside as a nigger reserve.
When that nigger question really arises peace
theories will be of no account; it is a notable
thing that those who advocate peace and disarma-
ment and non-militarism in Australia are also
those who advocate the free admission of all
races, and it is only on the theory of the
free admission of niggers that Australia can
remain unarmed. Also when the nigger question
arises, beautiful theories about arbitration won’t
count; Australia can no more arbitrate over the
free admission of Asiatics than England can arbi-
trate over a proposal to let the Germans, half-a-
million strong, invade the British Isles without
resistance. Our only prospect lies in having such
a military and naval force of our own as will
make Bull decide, when he is driven to a
decision, that it will pay better to be with us
than against us upon this question. There
is nothing to lead us to believe that Bull,
bloated with pride over the possession of over
300,000,000 nigger subjects, has a vestige of sym-
pathy with, or comprehension of, the White Aus-
tralia ideal. His sympathies are rather the other
way. But his agriculture is nearly ruined, his
country is dry-rotted with great estates and
great plutocrats, and with square leagues of slums
and horrible millions of the destitute; he is
dependent on foreign nations for his daily bread,
and he is consumed with worry lest the Command
of the Sea, which means his daily bread, should
be lost to him. Much—very much, almost
anything, in fact—would be forgiven us if
we had ten good ironclads, with smaller ves-
sels to match, and 250,000 trained and well-
armed men to make the aggregate Imperial
defences look bigger in the face of the possible
enemy. When we have only an old gunboat,
however, Bull takes his own parochial view of our
policy and our aspirations.
* * * *
When the trouble comes it will probably come
suddenly. We may be as France was in 1870 ;
on July 4 there wasn’t, so far as the great mass of
the people could see, a cloud on the horizon ; on
July 5 there was trouble ; on September 4 the
French army was a ruin, the empire was ended,
and the invaders were almost in sight of Paris.
There will probably be an accumulation of secret
complaints from Indian officials about Australia’s
anti-nigger policy, and reports about Indian dis-
affection and dissatisfaction; there will most
likely be secret despatches and representations
from China and Japan ; there will be consultations
of the British Cabinet. Then one morning Alfred
Deakin, or some other Australian Prime Minister,
will aiyive at his office, nicely washed and neatly
brushed, unsuspicious of evil and at peace with
all mankind, and will open a courteous despatch
which will inform him that it is highly advisable,
in the interests of the empire, that Australia should
reconsider its exclusion policy. Then there will
be cablegrams. Then there will be pandemonium.
If that despatch arrives within the next few days,
or months, or even years, there will probably be
very great pandemonium. Then Australia will
realise all at once that it wants many things. It
will want 250,000 trained men and a highly ser-
vippable fleet. It will want its great estates
broken up and settled with small farmers to
supply a lighting population. It will want fac-
tories in which it can make everything foytseff,
so as not to depend upon imports. It will want
shipyards, arsenals, gun factories, fortifications,
a broad gauge railway to Westraha a similar
railway to the Northern Territory, and at least a.
million sturdy families settled in tfa e territory ,
it will need a uniform railway gauge and a un -
form Federally-owned railway system ; it will badly
desire about 20,000,000 of a sturdy white popuki-
tion (which can only be obtained by providing
land for settlers and work for artisans), a good
defensible Federal capital away back from the
coast, also much money and almost unlimited
credit—not a busted exchequer and an Alp or
debts. With these things, Australia could re-
spectfully answer Bull to the effect that its
devotion and loyalty were very g r «at-m fact
something stupendous; that it couldn t see
way to go back on its White Australia policy,
but that if that policy unhappily threatened to
involve the empire in war it would be found
whooping on the empire’s behalf in the front of
the disturbance; and that meanwhile it was
mustering all its land and sea forces in case
Bull’s enemy—the one who objected to the
White Australia policy—should come along un-
expectedly. It might not mean all these things,
but it would be polite to say them. (Probably,
in such a case, there would be no
British despatch at all.) But Australia as
it is could do nothing—absolutely nothing.
There isn’t even a railway to carry a few
hundred cadets, armed with obsolete rifles,
further north than Rockhampton—the rail-
way to Rockhampton, also, is an inefficient, narrow
gauge affair, which isn’t even owned by the Com-
monwealth ; and if the proposed British com-
mission was up just beyond that town marking
out the future nigger province of North Australia,
there would be nobody to interfere with it and
its escort save Murphy, the local policeman.
Even the Pa’hf’land the rest of the hired squadron
would be against us.
• * * *
When France, in the days of the Revolution,
shook its fist in the face of Europe, its Legislature
sat night and day, and crowded a year’s work into
24 hours in its haste to get ready for the probable
consequences of its act. The result was that it
was ready in time. When Carthage shook its fist
for the last time at the countenance of Rome,
and Hasdrubal the Fat armed the republic
for its great final effort, the Carthaginian
women gave their jewels to the treasury and cut off
their hair to make ropes for the engines of war.
The trouble was that they started their prepara-
tions too late, and nothing came of them save ruin.
Australia, by its absolutely necessary policy of
Asiatic exclusion, has shaken its fist in the face of
all Asia, and the Times broadly hints that it may
also have shaken the same implement in the face
of the British Empire. If it had shaken its fist in
the face of the whole globe and the solar system
to boot, the proceeding was none the less
necessary ; but the amazing insanity lies in the
apparent inability to comprehend that such a
policy, if it is to last, needs to be backed up by
such a show of defence as no of this
size ever made before in modern times. Even the
frenzied haste of the French National Assembly,
which crowded a year’s work into a day and a
night, was no greater than the record of speed that
Australia should put up in creating first-class
military and naval defences; in covering Australia
with the lines of a Federally-owned railway
system ; in breaking up the big estates and settling
the country with sturdy farmers ; in creating
manufactures ; in bringing in British and other
desirable white immigrants; in paying off its debts,
creating its own shipyards and arms factories; and
generally in doing to-day what Hasdrubal the
Fat and his slack Carthaginians left till next
week. And when one considers the snail-like
pace of the Australian Parliament—its lingering
over foolish Addresses-in-Reply, its polite wasting
of time in debates on small matters with silly,
cantankerous little State Premiers, its desire to do
things without undue haste, its regard for prece-
dent, and its other affabilities, the outlook is
sorrowful. The luck that is said to attend chil-
dren and drunks may stick to us—but there are
unlucky drunks.
PHILP’S POLITICAL P.N. (WITHOUT
ENDORSEMENT).
Robert Philp, Premier of Queensland, has issued
his programme. Why an inscrutable Providence
should have allowed Philp to have a programme,
seeing that he has really no more use for it than
a cow has for astronomy, it is hard to say; but
the same Providence allowed the Huns to come
into possession of oil-paintings and statuary, and
doubtless there is some hidden reason behind
these marvels. The programme reveals Philp as
the same old Philp. It seems so utterly impos-
sible that there should be a new Philp that the
statement that it is just the old Philp may seem
superfluous; still it may reassure the intelligent
section of the public to know for certain that there
is no increase of Philp. One is far more than
enough, but two would be a disaster suggestive of
the fall of Rome, or some such old-time catas-
trophe.
* * * *
The Robert Philp of to-day has all the ear
marks of the old financial clown who made
Queensland a joke and a byword a few years
ago. He still believes in promising everything to
everybody, and something over to the rich, and in
the old, cheery way he hangs the consequences.
In Queensland the finances are still balanced on
a razor edge, or something not very much
wider, as the result of past extravagances.
The State owes about £77 per inhabitant, the
biggest debt per head on earth save that of S.
Australia ; it achieved the very biggest debt per
head on earth during Philp’s previous Govern-
ment, but the careful management of men like
Morgan, Browne and Kidston has shifted
the liability to second place. Still, second
place is bad enough. Queensland has had a
few surpluses, through the honest and
capable finance of Morgan, Browne, Kidston,
and the other Democrats who took charge when
the insane extravagance and stupendous shortages
of Philp had brought the State to the verge of
public bankruptcy, but they haven’t been very
large surpluses yet. With the huge gap between
revenue and expenditure (bequeathed by Philp)
to make good, and the immense accumulated
deficits (left behind by Philp) to pay off, and
with a funded debt (mostly built up by Philp and
his friends), for which there are so few payable
assets to show that the unproductive portion of
the debt represents twice as large an interest
burden per inhabitant as the whole debt of the
United Kingdom, it was difficult, in a mere four
years, to do much in the way of repairs, though,
considering the circumstances, an amazing amount
has been done. Philp left Queensland penniless
and broke ; now it has been saved, but with a great
A knowledge of the number of pence there are : n
the "hiUinpwm. to h„»e been domed to Phu-p.
q f , the temporary Premier promises gaily. He
even with the phenomenally careful management
ofthe last four years, is still a thin, frail surplus,
and can’t bear Lving any
rushing at it with a loud yell and an axe. a m
this is only the beginning. Philp Promises also
to give large endowments to local bodies , to give
large subsfdies for well-sinking water conserva-
tion and road-making, so that these thigs
have to be paid for out of rates levied c«i the
Queensland landlora; to reduce
charged by the State on guaran ee oans rom d
per cent, (which is phenomenally low) to 2 per
cent (which is ridiculous) ; to subsidise pros-
pectors, to subsidise more steamship lines, to
greatly reduce harbor dues to subsidise a civil
service superannuation fund, to establish a Uni-
versity, to increase the allovvances to the aged
to 10s. per week, to sell good, clean land adja-
cent to the prickly pear country at ‘nominal
prices,” also to begin the construction of a large
number of railways, and no longer to demand
that the landlord whose property values are
greatly enhanced by these lines shall contri-
bute anything towards their cost, borne of the
items of this programme—the allowances to the
aged, the University, and the civil service super-
annuation idea —are excellent in but
even they are indefensible when, instead of being
accompanied by an intelligent provision for find-
ing the needful money, they go with a wild scheme
for the wholesale sacrifice of revenue. Victoria,
with its prospective £1,000,000 surplus, and its
non-borrowing policy, and with Bknt for ballast
might stand such a programme ; but then Victona
has spent 14 toilsome years in swearing off the
financial drunk and putting its house in order.
Queensland, with the last snake of its last drunk
just disappearing round the very near corner,
can’t afford to go on the raving beer again just
vet. But Philp, unfortunately, doesn t know the
difference between having 2d. and being ROCKE-
FELLER. „ „
* * *
The Philp programme, in short, is glaringlv,
outrageously impossible on any honest basis. It
the Townsville humorist is returned to power
there are two visible alternatives: (1) Ihe pro-
gramme, so far as concerns the concessions pro-
mised to the poor (the much larger concessions
promised to the rich are fairly safe) must prove a
lie; or (2) the concessions may be granted, and
when the consequent deficit can no longer be
added to the public debt the gap may be filled by
the restoration of the infamous poll-tax, by
cutting down Public Service salaries, and gene-
rally by making the poor pay for their own con-
cessions and those granted to the rich also.
Possibly, as a third alternative, the rich will get
their concessions, and the poor wild pay for them
while getting none themselves. That has been
the fairly regular experience in the past under
Governments with which Philp was connected.
* • * *
Apart from finance, the Philp programme is
calculated to make every decent Democrat get
ready the dead cat of scorn and the bad egg of
obloquy for February 5. Briefly, he promises to
retain the fraudulent postal vote wbich did so
much service to dishonest Toryism in the past; to
utterly abolish Hidston’s idea of applying the
Wages Board principle to agricultural and pastoral
employees, and to allow sweating in country dis-
tricts to be absolutely unchecked; to greatly
modify the Wages Board idea even as applied to
city industries ; to leave to the landowners all the
unearned increment which may arise though
the construction of new railways; and to
convert the Upper House, now a com-
paratively harmless nominee body which can
be swamped on an emergency by the appoint-
ment of new members, into an immovable
elective body buttressed behind a property
franchise. And on top of this there are extensive
rumors of an intention to make the Assembly also
a body with a restricted franchise, so that a tem-
porary Philp majority at this election may be
converted into a reliable Philp majority at several
future elections. The Queensland Premier offers
some shadowy subsidies, amount not stated, to
prospectors (they will probably prove to be sub-
sidies to affluent companies), and the doubtful
promise of a few extra shillings a week to the
aged poor (how many aged poor isn’t mentioned),
as the price of the democratic vote, so that he may
use the power that vote gives him to buttress the
Tory Upper House, to reduce the burdens of the
great landowners, and to encourage sweating in all
rural industries. In fact, he asks the Democracy
to sell if self into slavery in return for his P/N for
2d. at six months —without endorsement.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wade on Page 9 and Wade on Page 10.
Last Saturday Sydney Telegraph presented two
aspects of N.S.W. State Premier Wade —one on
page 9 and the other on page 10. The trouble
arose through Wade going down to Monaro to
inspect the Australian capital site at Dal-
gety, beside the Snowy River. While he was
thinking about the Australian capital, Wade (on
pape 9) was the anti-Federal grumbler—the State
Insect who held that it was up to him to be
against anything that the Australian Parliament
approved of. In that capacity he didn’t think
much of Monaro on page 9. It was bleak, it was
windy, he reckoned that it would be cold in the
winter, and he didn’t consider any great shucks
of the Snowy River after all. The CarrutheßS
Government, of which Wade was a member, in
the first place denounced a Federal capital
at Dalgety because, according to that Govern-
ment, it would tear away from N.S.W. a magnifi-
cent, rich, fertile region of unlimited possibifities
which the State couldn’t afford to part with. The
same Government, only without Carruthers,
now professes to object to Dalgety because of its
bleakness and poverty. It wants a much better
locality torn away from N. S. Wales. Wade (on
page 9) claimed to be so anxious for the health,
comfort, and well-being of the Parliament of
which he isn’t a member, and which, be says, has
done his Ma State so many wrongs, that he simply
hates the idea of letting it have its own way and
sit at Dalgety. He knows what’s good for it a lot
better than it does itself. He was all broken up about
Monaro (on page 9). In its place, he cordially re-
commended Canberra, where the Federal territory


would be completely surrounded by the terri-
tory of N.S.W. and the Federal city
would be wholly dependent on the charity
of the cantankerous State Government for
its water supply, its drainage outlet, its railway
and road communication—for everything in fact.
He even got so excited (on page 9) as to re-
commend Canberra because a city there would
depend for its water supply on the Cotter River,
and the Cotter is so small and obscure that “ the
maps of the Lands Department do not show the
course of this stream at all.’' Wade professed to
think that this was a proof of the purity of the
water, rather than of the extreme pettiness of the
river ; anyhow, the State Premier didn’t approve
of a Monaro site (not on page 9). But page 10
found Wade shinning up Mt. Kosciusko, which
overhangs Dalgety, but is thousands of feet above
it, and far colder, bleaker, windier, and less de-
sirable. Then Wade forgot about the proposed
Australian capital, which he must denounce in his
unpleasant State Insect capacity, and only remem-
bered that Kosciusko is still N.S.W. territory.
So he enthused about the scenery, about the health-
fulness of things, about the splendid atmo-
sphere, and such-like matters (on page 10).
Although Wade couldn’t think of letting sinful
Federal legislators (mean and conspiring Vic-
torians and such like) suffer misery in the com-
paratively mild atmosphere of Dalgety some
3000 ft. above sea level, he is making roads, and
building accommodation houses, and issuing
literature to beguile harmless honest N.S.W.
citizens up to Kosciusko at a ghastly height of
7300 ft. These things suggest that Wade on page
9, denouncing the lower and warmer part of
Monaro in its Federal capacity as a most unsatis-
factory spot, doesn’t hang together with Wade on
page 10 recommending the tallest, bleakest
mountain in the same region as a really ideal
place for the public to go to. Wade should try
to combine the two aspects of the ease, and look
at them both at once, and publish the results on
page 9£.
♦
One Fred D. Badgery and the late Alexander
Oliver.
A quaint contributor to the mass of anti-Aus-
tralian literature was a person who, last week,
wrote to the S. M. Hekald and signed himself
“Feed D. Badgery.” This was Frederick's
grievance, or part of it:—
The reason Dalgety was voted for was simply to hang
the matter up, and the same with Bombala, because all
must know that the engineering difficulties existing
between either of these two sites and Melbourne render
it impossible to have a fast train service to that capital,
which is desirable in Victorian interests.
J ust for the moment the favorite attitude of the
Sydney parochialist is that the Australian Parlia-
ment selected a capital site on Southern Monaro,
because it knew that the place was impossible and
hopeless, and because it wanted to hang the
matter up indefinitely. No less than three parish-
minded individuals have written to that effect in
the Sydney papers in one week. But not one of
them had the courage to state (what must be true
if the other assertion is true) that the late Mr.
Oliver —the N.S.W. State official to whom the
N.S.W. State Government, at the request of the
Federal authorities, referred the question of
possible sites—must have been either an exceed-
ingly great incapable, or else a venal and dis-
graceful scoundrel who took bribes, or was swayed
in some way by private interests. Yet that is
what Fred D. Badgery and his kind would say
if they had the courage of their alleged
opinions. For it was Oliver, the high-
placed N.S.W. State official appointed by
the N.S.W. State Government, who recommended
a site on Southern Monaro as the best available,
and the Australian Parliament simply followed
his lead. S,o if Southern Monaro was selected by
reason of its utter unsuitability, as the Sydney
Star alleged a few days ago, and as Fred D.
Badgery alleges, and as a whole herd of other
petty grumblers are never tired of alleging, it was
the late Alexander Oliver, of the N.S.W. Public
Service, who did the evil deed, and on his grave
the curse of F. D. Badgery and his kind must lie
in the first instance. And it is up to Fred D.
Badgery and his kind to say so—assuming that they
honestly believe their own assertions. Even the
respect that is paid to the dead shouldn’t cover so
stupendous an act of treachery as Badgery and
Co. profess to have discovered. But of course, if
by any chance Badgery and Co. don’t believe a
word of what they say, and merely denounce the
proposed site because, though it is a very good
one for Australia, it doesn’t suit their exclusively
Sydney interests, and if they are simply trying to
sacrifice Australia for their own sordid profit, then
some feeling of shame would naturally keep them
from pasting their unwholesome yarn on the
tombstone of the man who is no more, and whose
official character, till F. D. Badqery and other
parochialists began to throw dirt at it by implica-
tion, was supposed to be above reproach.
What We Don’t Get For Our Money.
The ups and downs of markets are not of much
real consequence to the self-contained country.
They are of tremendous consequence, though, to
both the country that owes money to a foreigner,
and the country that holds the foreigner’s IO U’s.
The States of Australia owe the foreigner about
£192,500,000 —that is public debt; it is impossible
to say what the private foreign debt amounts to.
If Australia wants to get out of pawn and pay
that debt off, it can only do it by selling things to
the foreigner. In other words, it ships goods,
and sells them to Cohen or Cohen’s
neighbor, and hands the proceeds over to Cohen;
and on account of the ups and downs in the
markets for lead and frozen cow, etc., what will
pay off £2 to-day may only pay off £1 to-morrow.
In 1894 we got down to the rock-bottom of things,
under the slime and silt of depression and hard
times. The exports that would have brought
£lOOO in 1901, the year when Australia first lifted
up its face as a Commonwealth, would only have
paid off £BO7 of debt in that gloomy year 1894.
But in the year that has just ended, the same
assorted shipment of frozen cow, wool, lead, etc.,
would have wiped £1347 off the slate that hangs
behind the door of Moses Bull, money-lender.
Thus what would have paid off £BO7 one year would
pay off no less than £1347 another year ; and
the country that doesn’t seize the chance which
high prices represent, and strain every muscle in
order to wipe out the debt under those easy
circumstances, doesn’t know enough to come in for
meals. And the country which, instead of repaying
grabs a season of high prices to get further into
Cohen’s debt, has hardly sense enough even to
know a meal when it sees one. For the country
that borrows from the foreigner in time of
peace is nearly always a poor and feckless
wood-and-water joey, which at the best
gets, not money, but goods from the Cohen
country, and the higher the price the less goods
it gets. The foolish Wade and Waddle idea
apparently is that, when things are booming, the
Government ought to rush in and try to keep
them booming bv pouring out all the borrowed
money it can get hold of ; in other words, that it
ought to grab the opportunity when prices are
to tt° set as little as possible for the State’s
I O LI. Instead of jumping at the chance of
making a little of the State’s products go a long
way in getting the State out of pawn, these in-
competents jump at the chance of borrowing
money and getting it in the shape of goods at high
prices, and leave the State to worry with the
bill for interest, etc., at a time when prices will
be probably 50 per cent, lower, so that ±ll
of debt will be 100 per cent, harder to get
rid of. The £lOO that the Wade and Waddle
kind of folk borrow and take out in goods in a day
of high prices is often only worth £6O a year or two
later, when the slump has reduced the price of the
goods Wade and Waddle got for the £lOO. And
the £3 10s. per annum interest which Wade and
Waddle now undertake to pay in exports of wool
and copper and frozen cow at high prices will feel
very like £4 13s. 4d. to-morrow, when a slump
makes it necessary to send away one-third more
wool and cow and copper to liquidate the bill. It
sounds all right to say that the interest is only 3£
per cent., but though it is that on paper it is
nothing of the kind in practice. When you really
borrow steel rails and really pay the interest in
frozen beef, and each £lOOO worth of rails, through
a fall in metals, is presently worth only £6OO, and
the ton of beef which easily paid the interest on a
certain sum when the loan was contracted (say in
1907) slumps so much that in 1909 it requires a ton
and a half of beef to cover the same liability, the
country feels just as bad as if the interest had gone
up 8f per cent. And it deserves to feel j ust as bad.
The “ Unpopularity ” of Federation.
Some poisonous nonsense was talked by Senator
Colonel Neild at the Sydney Highland Gathering
on New Year’s Day :
He recognised that the Commonwealth Parliament was
unpopular, but this chiefly arose from the unpopularity
of Federation. That Federation was unpopular in New
South Wales was shown by the fact that it was almost
impossible to discover a man who would own up to having
voted for Federation, and who had not been sick of
himself ever since for doing so.
This sort of loose stuff is easy to talk, but worthy
of very little serious consideration. Neild finds
it ‘‘almost impossible to discover a man who
would own up to having voted for Federation,”
&c. The value of the statement depends very
much on the amount of the effort made
to discover the man, and the kind of
men Senator Neild personally associates with,
and the kind of people who are willing to
associate with Senator Neild. It may be that
many people, even though they vote for him as
being a useful instrument, wouldn’t be seen dead
with Senator Neild. But, apart from that
theory, there are some ascertained facts as to the
popularity of the Commonwealth in N. S. Wales.
At the 1906 general elections, G. H. Reid went
to the country as the grumbler against Federa-
tion, and all the anti-Federalists grouped under
his banner. The Federal forces were divided
between the Laborites and the Deakinites, and
this division probably prevented, in some con-
stituencies, the pro-Federal vote having its full
influence. Well, Reid went to the polls
with 15 followers out of the 26 whom N. S. Wales
sent to the House of Representatives. He came
back with 11 out of 27. Thus he lost four old
seats and the new one, and was left in a minority
as regards the N. S. Wales representation. That
was not much more than a year ago. It repre-
sents, as nearly as any exact facts which are
available, the feeling of the State towards the
Federation, and shows that feeling to be one of
growing favor. Compared with that definite
result, Mr. Neild’s conclusions —drawn from
the circle of Mr. Neild’s personal gossips,
and from the views of the kind of people who are
able to stand Mr. Neild’s “poetry” without
immediately taking the train for Bourke —mean
very little. Mr. Neild gets back into the Senate
by careful avoidance, at election time, of remarks
about the alleged unpopularity of Federation.
At election time he is the wildly popular Neild,
whooping up the popular Commonwealth. If he
hkes to go to the poll next time as an anti-
I ederationist, demanding the dissolution of the
Commonwealth on the alleged ground that almost
everybody who voted for it is sick of it, the votes
he gets, outside a few importers and rich blatant
lories of Sydney—well, he will probably be able
to count most of chem on the thumb of one foot.
“ A Faithful Ambassador is Health.”
The most definite pronouncement to date on the
subject of the appointment of a High Commis-
sioner for Australia is that of the Prime Minister
to the effect that no person has been even con-
sidered for the post by the Cabinet. This was in
answer to the disgraceful suggestion that Aus-
tralia should go outside the ranks of its own
citizens and find ip Lord Jersey, or some other
wealthy British peer, a High Commissioner who
would be willing to buttress up the “dignity” of
Australia by lavish spending of his private means.
The statementof the Prime Minister, coming when
it did, may be accepted as at least a discouragement
to this proposal to put Australia in the position of
a mendicant nation seeking favor with the help of
somebody else’s money. To that extent it is
welcome. Nothing could be imagined more dis-
astrous to Australia’s reputation than the ap-
pointment of a wealthy outsider—mainly because
he was wealthy— to its one diplomatic post. That
would be a confession of national ineptitude in
the first place. And it would establish the mis-
chievous precedent that the High Commissioner’s
office was to be the reward, not of brains and faith-
ful service to Australia, but of affluence. If that is
to be so, a good economical plan would be to
throw the post open to the highest tender. Many
an American millionaire or Hebrew Randlord
would be willing to pay for the social prestige
which would attach to the representation of the
Commonwealth in London. But it is hardly pos-
sible to imagine from the Deakin Government
any such outrage on Australian sentiment. Still
the public wants something more than reassur-
ance on that point. Some assurance would be
welcome that it really is intended, at some
date before the Greek Kalends, to appoint an
Australian ambassador in London. The yearly
loss in prestige, in population, and in actual
money interests from the delay in this matter is
difficult to estimate. No reason which can be
urged in favor of hesitation is comparable in im-
portance with that loss. Every friend of Aus-
tralia in London, every Australian with any
consciousness of national needs, recognises that.
But paltry intrigues are still allowed to block the
way. It represents the one conspicuous failure of
the Federation to date.
♦
The Man Who Did It.
On December 30 the S. M. Herald blew off on
an innocent and unsuspecting public its 100th
article (or thereabouts) on the great Federal
grievance which will arise when, at the end of
1910, the Braddon clause ceases to be a fixed item
of the. Constitution. After that date it will no
longer be necessary for the Commonwealth to pay
the States three-fourths, or any other part, of the
tariff revenue, and, as the Herald put it, the
Commonwealth
will be able to reduce the States to a position of mendi-
cancy, or force them to impose taxation of unheard-of
severity to preserve them from a visit from a receiver, for
without Customs revenue they cannot pay the interest
bill on their debts.
And not a soul, in reading that article or any of
the other 99 on the same subject, would find a
line to inform him (1) that the Herald used to
call this Braddon clause a Blot; (2) that the
clause was originally fixed in the Constitution for
ever, so as to make the States quite safe; (3) that
the States, including N.S.W., gave a majority for
the acceptance of the original Bill containing
the permanent provision that three-fourths
of the tariff revenue should go to the
States; and (4) that it was the Herald’s
tin god, George Reid, who contrived to upset
the popular acceptance, and who demanded
the excision of the Braddon clause, else N.S. W.
would stand out and there would be no Federa-
tion. Always the nagging old-woman paper aims
its unreasoning clod at the Commonwealth over
this matter, as if it was the Commonwealth, in-
stead of the N.S.W. Government and the fool
Reid, that was responsible for the fact that the
States, after 1910, must trust to the charity of the
Australian Parliament. Reid toiled, shouted,
agitated, upset the peace of Australia and dragged
the honor of N.S.W. in the mud to achieve two
things: (1) an arrangement whereby the States
after 1910, will be dependent on the charity of the
Commonwealth for the means to pay their interest
bills; and (2) a proviso whereby the Common-
wealth may take all N.S.W., outside a limit of
100 miles from Sydney, as a Federal territory,
and collar, without payment, all the public lands
in all that area, which means, practically, all the
public lands and all the land revenue of the State.
And having achieved this amazing lunacy, Reid
came back from Melbourne flapping the banner of
pride, and saying “ Alone I did it ! Whoop !”
-«►
Newcastle Still Bubbles.
Newcastle is still on the bubble, and the daily
papers report that “ there is a grave probability
that all the good work performed by Mr. Wade
may be nullified.” The right way to put it is
that all the bad work done by Mr. Wade and
the other people and papers that undermined the
Arbitration Act is liable to bear fruit ar any time.
After persistently throwing mud at Arbitration
and the Act and the Court, these people and
papers found themselves the other week up
against the only alternative to Arbitration, and
they were so horrified when they saw what
that alternative was that they rushed away to put
into force the very thing they had been
throwing mud at. But, instead of em-
ploying the Court which had been created
calmly, and after long inquiry, they created
another so-called Court with so little of a judicial
character that it actually consisted for the most
part of men who had just been clawing at one
another’s throats. The Arbitration Act had de-
clared strikes illegal, and it needed all the force
of public opinion to support so radical a change
in the country’s industrial methods. Instead,
however, of giving it that support, Wade, whose
“good work ” is now talked about, snarled at it,
and pin-pricked it, and discredited it—and now
expects Arbitration to be respected ! There
is in all this, however, no reason why
the miners of Newcastle shouldn’t have
more sense than Wade. If it has suited
him to condemn Arbitration, it is, in
fact, a pretty strong hint to the miners that
Arbitration is the thing that will suit them best.
They can’t afford to put Arbitration into the
gutter even if Wade and the Daily Telegraph
could, or thought they could. If the Newcastle
miners break away from the Court now, they will
be simply doing what their opponents have been
luring them to do for two or three years past;
and it is obviously bad business to play your
opponents’ game.
Law making ia a Harry.
The Victorian State Parliament made the usual
exhibition of itself at the tail end of last session—-
the exhibition that is so frequent in every Parlia-
ment in the country. At the beginning of the
session the Assembly sat three days a week—
when it didn’t sit less—and put out the cat and
the milk-jug early, while the Council adjourned
for weeks together, and only sat for a couple of
hours when it sat at all. The Assembly talked
and dallied and lobbied and listened to Bent
telling about the famous men he had been. Then,
as the end of the year threw its shadow, the
Assembly got a move on, and sat four days a
week, and sometimes a night or two as well, and
started to fire Bills at the “ House of Review ”
fast enough to keep that animal working 23 hours
out of the 24 if it really meant to do its alleged
work properly. When the Christmas goose was
actually waddling towards the pot both Houses
were rushing around arguing points about the
most important measure of the session, the
Amending Factories Act; and finally, a lop-sided,
incomplete Bill was passed without either House
being quite sure what it or the other was doing.
Even when that yabber was all over, the end was
not yet; for Bent, having gone up to Bendigo a
day or two before, and arranged to bring in a Gold
Buyers’ Bill, allegedly in order to settle a local min-
ing dispute, plumped the hastily-drawn measure
on the table on the very day he had arranged
to prorogue the Houses. It was rushed through
in a violent hurry and sent to the Fats. The
“House of Review”—this being a measure to
further safeguard property—tossed all notions
of “review” to the winds, and passed the Bill
while it took its lunch ; and so it be-
came an Act. When it was being pushed
through the Lower House, Bent himself admitted
it was full of imperfections, but promised that
“ things will be done in a better way next
session.” It is always “next session.” The
Licensing Act is only one session old, and already
it has had to be amended ; the Gaming Act is the
same age, and already an amendment is pro-
mised ; the Factories Act is a perennial) y-
amended measure; and it is safe to say this Gold
Buyers’ Act will have to be altered next year.
If Parliament would but drop the useless Address-
in-Reply and get to work on its programme imme-
diately it meets, and would take steps to restrict
the weariful flow of talk that precedes legislation
in the early days of a session, it would not only
get its work done in reasonable time, but there
would be some hope of having the work done pro-
perly. As for the House of Rich Landlords, it is
in the position of the man who will only work
when he is driven. No employer hesitates long
about sacking that my,u.
A Close Shave.
The taking over of SANDFOKn’sLithgow (N.S.W.)
ironworks by the Hoskins Co. was a most wel-
come relief to Sydney Telegraph and the rest of
the Private Enterprise mercenaries. Any com-
bination of Government and Private Enterprise
could not, they declared, but end disastrously—
there was no precedent for such a combination.
Of course this statement quite ignored the shock-
ing example of how the State amalgamated with
the private owners of the Bank of New Zealand,
and made one of the great successes of modern
financial history. It ignored how the combination
of the South African Republic and an explosives
co. kept down the price of explosives much below
what they flew up to when the De Beeus Corpora-
tion got control, and ran a monopoly in which
the State had no interest. It ignored the
semi-State, semi-private Bank of Norway, and
quite a lot of similar enterprises. And the
daily press was just as bitterly opposed to
the State taking over the whole industry. In
fact, it was more opposed to that than to the
other course, for that would realise the ideas of
the Labor party. And yet it was a thousand
pities that Premier Wade didn’t wade in
for once, and play the strong man he
is supposed to be. He could have practically
secured the iron industry of Australia for the
dear old Ma State by the simple expedient of
paying off the Commercial Bank’s overdraft, and
buying Sandeord out at a fair valuation. To
say that the State could not run the enterprise as
well as Hoskins or anyone else is plain
absurdity. Consider the position. Even if it
ran it on borrowed money, which a Deform
Government most assuredly would, it could get
the money cheaper than any private syndicate.
It has its own Railway Department, and Public
Works Department, and Harbors and Rivers
Department for constant customers, ahd could
have choked off foreign competition by the simple
expedient of using only its own steel in the public
service of N.S.W. It could further have en-
couraged its own industry by giving its
own steel and iron special rates over its
own railroads, and have thereby sold its steel
to the manufacturers of Australia at a figure
that would have made the Yankee Billion
Dollar Steel Trust and the Canadian Steel
Merger (in spite of its amazing shaft at
Saute Sainte Marie) quite helpless to compete.
During 1906, Australia imported £2,076,319 worth
of steel and pig iron, and other iron of all sorts,
and Premier Wade, with the resources of New
South Wales behind him, could have practically
grabbed the whole of the trade for the dear old
Ma State. Talk about treachery to N.S.W.! It
is awful to see such opportunities of benefiting
the grand old mother of the Australias missed by
a man who poses as a champion of State Frights.
Consider how envious Victoria —the Victoria of
the daily press—would have gnashed its tooth in
impotent rage, and how all the rest of the so-called
lame ducks would have fumed and fretted in
their powerless envy. Of course, a few iron and
steel importers would have been deprived of the
opportunity of making a fat living, but, to borrow
an illustration from a man named Carruthers,
who was once Premier of N.S.W., it would have
paid to have had the industry in the country and
pensioned off the importers. The Freetraders
have always had great ideas of pensioning the
artisans who are thrown out of employment by
free importations, out of the money alleged to be
saved by the abolition of local industry. Here
was a case where the poor importer might have
been pensioned off out of the money MADE by
local industry.
♦
The High Court has a fine crop of constitutional
litigation for the new year. There is the wire-
netting raid to be dealt with ; it should have been
contemptuously settled in a police court months
ago by fining Joe Carruthers ten bob for riot,
and binding him over to keep the peace ; but the
blundering of the Federal law authorities brings
it now to the High Court when all real interest in
the matter has evaporated. Then the constitution-
ality of the “new Protection” is to be tested, by
a challenge against the excise levies made on
harvester manufacterers who refuse to pay the
rates of wages decreed by the Australian
Arbitration Court. Those are the two big cases,
but there are others. The wire-netting row will
Old Worlds and New.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve touched at many a foreign strand ;
I’ve journeyed through the older isles,
And this I’ve learned —on my own land
The kindliest light in Nature smiles ;
That she is furnished most complete
With all that makes life's passage sweet.
In every European town,
From frowsy West to drowsy East,
A skeleton in threadbare gown
Is sitting at the Dead Men’s Feast
Where men, perforce, are born and bred
To eat the leavings of the dead.
They sit, the cities, old and grim—
Bedizened crones that hide their years,
With mumbling jaws, and eyesight dim
With age, and sated lust, and tears—
Wherein the pampered noble hates
The squalid beggar at his gates.
They sit, the cities, grim and old,
Among their old memorial stones ;
And in their palsied fingers hold
Debris, and dust, and dead men’s bones;
With, round about their withered knees.
The deadly weeds of fell disease.
The fecund hordes of many creeds—
The Russ, the Mongol, and the Turk—
Though growing out of tainted seeds
In which inherent cankers lurk,
Still cope with Death, whose busy hand
Reaps the foul harvest of the land.
The Greek, the Hindu, and the Hun,
The Kelt, the Teuton, and the Goth,
Their slow decadent courses run
Swathed round about with mummy-cloth ;
Still waging forms of feudal strife
In old polluted fonts of life.
Yea, all the Old World’s dreary tales
Of ancient rites and hollow crowns.
Shall weigh as nothing in the scales
Against the splendors of the Downs—
The free strong men who laugh and sing,
Who dread no death and fear no king !
Yea, I have touched at many a strand,
And journeyed through the older isles,
And this I know—on my own land
The kindliest light of Nature smiles;
That she is dowered and replete
With all that makes life’s passage sweet.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how —write for full particulars
to-day —free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street
Sydney.*
incidentally raise the question whether the Aus-
tralian Government has power to charge duties on
so-called “ State imports” when the said “State
imports” are not for the use of the State, but for
sale—in other words, whether a State can set up
a gigantic import department, bring in anything
or everything free of duty, and retail it, and thus
abolish the tariff in one stupendous act. Inci-
dentally, of course, the importers would also be
abolished in one stupendous act.
♦
A Sydney Paper and its “ Military
Representative.”
Somebody described at the head of the article as
“ Our Military Kepresentative ” has been writing
in Sydney Telegraph in denunciation of what
that paper insists on misnaming “ the conscript
army” of Australia. And “Our Military
Representative ” holds forth with all the fervor
and accuracy of the office boy, and does it from a
purely English standpoint, and with a disregard
of circumstances and history which is aggravating
in a mild sort of way. The following are the
chief points of his last Monday’s article :
(1) Compulsory training is certain to make the service
unpopular. Compulsion “embodies an interference
with the liberty of the subject.”
(2) Compulsory training- is un-English. “ Since the old
feudal days no man enjoying the privilege of living under
the British flag has been compelled to serve in the army
except when and where martial law has been proclaimed.”
(3) Compulsory training is a folly, because “ one volun-
teer is as good as 12 pressed men.”
(4) Compulsory training is unnecessary, because when
England was fighting in the Crimea “ the people enrolled
themselves for military service,” and when, during the
war in South Africa, things looked bad, “the British
empire rose to the occasion, and volunteers came forward
in more thousands than were required.”
Which is all very large and beautiful, but unfor-
tunately it is also all bosh. The “liberty of the
subject” is a played-out gag ; what with compul-
sory military service, or its alternative, compul-
sory taxation so as to pay the other fellow
that he may serve, there has never been any
liberty of the subject in the direction indicated.
If Britain’s subject got liberty in this sense
he would very soon be someone else’s subject.
The second proposition is mostly ignorance. Com-
pulsory military service hadn’t really died out in
England hundreds of years after the feudal era ;
in fact, it wasn’t quite dead in Wellington’s day,
though there were then only a few traces of it
left. In any case, the practice of England has
nothing to do with us if the English practice
doesn’t meet our case. As for the statement that
one volunteer is worth 12 pressed men, that wild
assurance implies that the armies of Frederick
the Great, and Napoleon 1., and the naval forces
of Nelson were really very little good, and
that Britain’s (say) 250,000 white regulars are
equal in fighting capacity to 3,000,000 Germans.
These propositions seem hardly worth considering.
Even the tremendous assurance that Britain
always gets lots of raw recruits on an emergency,
such as occurred in the Crimea and South Africa,
isn’t worth a copper as evidence that Australia
doesn’t need to put its house in order. In the
case of the Crimea, Britain gathered in, by the
payment of huge bounties, thousands of untrained
boys, who died like flies under active service con-
ditions—at one time Raglan asked the Govern-
ment not to send out recruits, because the previous
lot was useless and the mortality among them was
heartbreaking. And while Britain was collecting
these hopeless volunteers the huge French army,
which always formed the backbone of the Allied
forces, was holding the fort, and saving the
collapse which was otherwise inevitable. In
the Boer war, again, Britain was dealing
with an enemy whose whole population wouldn’t
make a second-rate city, and it would be
a poor country that couldn’t get enough
volunteers for that work. In both cases
the war was an immense distance from Eng-
land, and even if recruits couldn’t be got
it only meant, at the worst, withdrawing the
British forces and letting the subject drop. If
the first battle of either war had been fought, say,
at Leicester against an overwhelming enemy, and
then it had been a question of scrambling together
an untrained, ill-armed mob to defend London,
the reliance on the voluntary system would prob-
ably have ended the Empire. And that is the
position that Australia has to consider. We have
no overwhelming fleet with which to carry the
war into the enemy’s country. The cases of
Africa and the Crimea have just as much to do
with us as a bear has with a solar eclipse. We
have to think hard over the possibility of our
little regular army being knocked into a cocked
hat somewhere about the Hawkesbury River, and
then the safety of Sydney will depend on whether
we can call out a vast mass of well-armed and
fairly-trained citizens, or whether we must
scramble together a mere unofficered tumult of
men armed with bricks. In the face of these
things the Sydney Telegraph should get a new
“Military Representative.” The present one
sticks too closely to English traditions, which
don’t fit the case.
-♦
The New Year was ushered in at Temora (N.S. W.)
by the usual “ charge ” brought by the inevitable
female against the customary young man.
Queenie Ralph was absorbed (21/12/’O7) in
maiden meditation in the kitchen of Mrs. Hickey
when, she alleged, there entered one Meehan.
Meehan, she said, proceeded forthwith to do a
number of dreadful things, and wound up, she
declared (fairly maddened at the persistency of
the assaulters virtue), by “punching her head”
and “dashing her against the wall.” The
Court shivered at the drear tale till soli-
citor Walsh got up for the defence. With
icy calm, Walsh submitted to Queenie
a long succession of names appertaining to the
local gilded (more or less) youth, and asked the
lady, as each name came up, if she knew the
owner thereof, and, if so, how well. The scheme
proved effective. The Bench removed its sympa-
thy from Queenie, blew out her case with a
hurried, shocked puff, and sent accused forth to
face the New Year in peace and freedom. The
trouble in the majority of these cases is that, all
too often, before the character and daily habits of
the lady with a passion for “bringing a charge” can
be ascertained, someone gets hanged on account
of her. If the law prosecuted the awful variety
of female for perjury when she is glaringly bowled
out before her victim is hanged, or for murder
when she is conspicuously bowled out after her
victim is suspended, it would materially diminish
this danger; but the law never prosecutes this
particular kind of lying she-witness —not in
N.S.W. anyhow. And the law won’t even say
why it doesn’t.
This, from a Sydney daily paper, is a story of the
slavery that is necessary in order that the landlord
may get his exorbitant rent: —
At the Teachers’ Conference yesterday Inspector G. A.
Blumer, M.A., said he knew of a case in the country
where a girl eight years of age had to walk four miles to
school, and before she started out had to milk 13 cows.
It was worse than brutality in his mind for parents to do
such things. As an association the teachers should
interest themselves not only in the welfare of the city
waif, but in that also of the white slave in the country.
And, by way of a joke or side issue, the Bishop of
Wangaratta (Vic.) has called on the Rev. <jEO.
Gladstone, of Nathalia, to resign his cure of
souls, because he “ fails to secure the adherence to
the Church of people in leading positions. in
other words, the Rev. Geo. Gladstone isn t
sufficiently agreeable to the rack-renting landlord
whose extortions make tragedies like the above
unavoidable.
♦
Sydney Morning Herald, on Friday last, con-
tained an announcement that 60 cases of rotten
tomatoes were sent to a pickle factory to be made
into sauce. The law ought to be amended in
some way, so that the name of that factory could
be published. Furthermore, the law should be
amended so that that pickle factory could be
closed, and its proprietors, or the persons respon-
sible, sent to gaol for 12 months for poisoning the
general public. The present state of affairs
inflicts a gross injustice on makers who use good
materials. The shuddering public, not knowing
which maker used those 60 cases of tomatoes, will
religiously boycott tomato sauce, and the decent
maker—if he exists—will suffer equally with the
indecent. Also, there is a story going round that
certain jam factories buy up the stale fruit from
all the city fruit-sellers when it is too far gone to
sell over the counter, and turn it into “ home-
made special.” These rumors are very disquieting,
and there is growing up a hopeless feeling that
to get pure food its manufacture and distribution
will have to be made a State or municipal
monopoly.
There is a tremendous strike of tenants in
N’York ; 10,000 of them won’t pay the rent de-
manded, won’t go out, won’t do anything. In
fact, just the same sort of situation has arisen as
Fat said might arise in connection with Arbitra-
tion Supposing an award were given, and the
men won’t obey it, the law can’t gaol a whole
population.” Therefore, as the law can’t gaol a
whole population, the law was alleged to be
powerless, and consequently Arbitration was
written down as a futile thing, about which there
shouldn’t be any law at all. But in this strike
against rent, the landlord has quite another idea
about the law. He doesn’t throw out his chest,
and remark that as the law can’t gaol a whole
population, therefore it shouldn’t have anything
to do with the relations between landlord and
tenant, but should just let them settle their
quarrels as they like. This time he puffs up with
a demand that the law shall come in and eject
the whole 10,000 tenants—say 50,000 people, at a
moderate estimate. When it’s the landlord’s
sacred rent that is affected, the law that isn t
strong enough has just got to go away and feed
up until it is strong enough.
4
One Moore, a Sydney builder, and president of
the Employers’ Federation of Ma State, has
made a proposition :
My suggestion is, that we should establish, outside
Government control, a Board of Conciliation, formed of
the employer and employee, for the settlement of their
differences, and when that settlement has been arrived-at
an agreement should be made legally binding by means
of a Court established by the Government. By this means
a good deal of the sweating that we hear of, and with
which no fair-minded employer has the least sympathy,
might also be done away with, on the lines that have
been previously put forward by this federation—viz.,
that an employee found taking wages under that named
by the Court should be equally liable with the employer
paying such wages.
The amazing Moore proposes forcible com-
pulsion of agreement, provided the parties
mutually agree before a voluntary court.
If they are already mutually agreed, why should
they go to Court to insist on agreeing to what they
have already agreed on ? What on earth employer
and employee would do, supposing they couldn’t
agree in the first place, Moore doesn’t say, and
the only real industrial disputes requiring inter-
ference are those in which the parties can’t agree.
Also, Moore’s remedy for sweating is that the
employer should voluntarily agree before a volun-
tary court not to sweat, and then the court can
order him not to sweat; after that, if he sweats,
he can be fined. But if he refuses to agree not to
sweat, he will just sweat.
+
The end of the year saw Sydney confronted with
the fact that, at the present rate of consumption,
1908 will soon see it drinking sludge and frogs.
Also, there was a gay dialogue among the mem-
bers of the Water Board at their last meeting as
to whether the Prospect dam would or would not
collapse long before the water had reached the
uttermost utter point of drinkability. If the late
summer and the autumn are hot, and evaporation
heavy, and the catchment area keeps up its record
for bad luck in the way of missing the rains, three
months may see a very good-sized trouble fairly
started. Sydney will be down to the sludge then,
and the fire-brigade’s supply will be running low,
and the suburban chrysanthemum will be a
dead, dusty stalk or skeleton, and of no
account. Sydney is so liable to scarcity that the
President of the Water and Sewerage Board hints
that it will be necessary to prohibit the establish-
ment at Botany of the wool top-making industry
—a most essential one, which would employ
thousands of hands—simply because the said
industry uses much water, and the local supply
is barely adequate for the new sewerage
system in the south-western suburbs. With all
these troubles staring it in the eye like a cheap
mesmerist glaring at a patient, the old Cabbage-
Tree Mob of Sydney still clamors fora Federal
capital close to that city, and dependent on the
same inadequate sources of supply, and frantically
denounces Dalgety, the only site with a fresh
water supply that is beyond all suspicion, merely
because the Australian Parliament favors it.
There was a mutiny of a sort down at Port
Melbourne, the other evening. The captain of
the British steamship Henley went ashore, leav-
ing directions with the third officer that none of
the Bulldog Boys were to quit the ship. The
third officer, however, in his skipper’s absence,
gave two of the Bulldog stewards shore-leave, and
right away the remainder of the Breed rose up
and contended that they were being harshly
treated. The argument grew so warm that the
officer had to call the engineers to his assistance,
and it wasn’t until the arrival of eight heavy
policemen that the disturbance was finally
flattened out. A number of the Breed were
afterwards arrested by the squad, and this is how
the names panned out: Wong Coon, Chung Fook,
Chang Lie (quartermasters); War Sing, Ah Soul,
Ah Loy, Long Sou, Sam Quong, Mou Sou, Mew
Lou, Say Goe, Ah Sou (firemen); Choy Yow,
Wong Yong, Tam Boong, Ah Dick, Choong Sing
(sailors). The British tar long ago used to wear a
pigtail and be called Jack. He now wears a pig-
tail and is called John.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ When Knights were Bold."
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.
Palace “Cinderella.
Tivoli. Rick»xrcls 00.
The Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Olivia.” „
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty. „
Theatre Royal “ Her Love Against the World.
Buou “ Her Luck in London.
Opera House.'. Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
♦
The good-all-round ‘ ‘ Girls of Gottenberg,
which beats other recent musical comedies and
alleged comic operas by an innings and 1093 runs,
still makes Her Majesty’s glad, from the gods
above to Goodman down in the depths of the
manager’s office. Also it cheers up bydney
generally. And the principals seem to be having
a good time too —including town-clerk Percy ;
but, then, Percy, according to Bantock, becomes
a very devil of a fellow on one banana.
26 * 26 26
The cheerful variety show which fills
Sydney Palace in the disguise of “Cinderella”
pantomime looks as though it were in for a long,
prosperous run. It is a show that improves with
the weeks. At the start some of the ballets had
raw edges ; but J. F. Sheridan has trimmed them
and over-sewn them, and now the big crowd of
mostly little people does credit to the energetic
Widow who wanders in and out and scatters gags
around with more confidence than any other
actor on the Australian stage.
26 26 26 26
At Sydney .Royal “The Scarlet Pim-
pernel” still flourishes as though it were a
Moreton Bay fig tree, or some much more vigorous
vegetable than a pimpernel. In Miss Ola Jane
Humphrey Julius Knight has a satisfactory
leading lady who leads the public to forget to
make comparisons with Miss Maud Jeffries ; and
that hasn’t been the case for some time with the
Knight organisation.
26 26 *
Interest in “Bluebell,” the afternoon show
now running at Sydney Royal, doesn’t diminish.
The local child proceeds there daily in swarms,
and with the child goes its parent—the latter
essaying feebly (since “Bluebell” isn’t billed as a
play for grown-ups) to represent the act as one of
altruism. The pretence deceives no one—the per-
ceptive local child least of all— and it soothes the
parent and augments the Royal box-office receipts,
so all hands are satisfied.
26 * 26 26
“ When Knights Were Bold ” continues
to go with perfectly terrific force at Sydney
Criterion, Heat cannot wither nor dearth of rain
stale the infinite energy that characterises the
mimes in this show ; and so the laugh is loud and
long “in front of the house,” and the hammering
of iron-shod gamps is deafening in its intensity.
* * 26 26
Mrs. Amy Sherwin’s second concert in
Svdney Town Hall brought out two more de-
butantes. One, Miss Amy Forsyth, is a girl with
a good contralto voice, to which the owner did not
do justice. The debutante is ever a quaker. If she
isn’t, there’s not much hope for her. Besides, an
audience doesn’t “ take to ” the cocksure beginner.
The second flutterer was Miss Bertha Brady—a
gold-topped damsel, daughter of a fashionable
Sydney physician. She has a pleasant drawing-
room soprano. Miss Ruby Adams, as at the first
concert, was the constellation. She lifted her
brilliant voice in the waltz air from “Romeo and
Juliet,” “Dawn,” Henschel’s “Spring”—sung
as the lark sings, plus good training—and other
choice selections. Messrs. Godfrey Smith and
Truman, at the piano and organ respectively,
helped with the generous programme.
26 26 26 26
Edwin Boyde, the English comic singer
whom this paper reprimanded in last issue for
making his first appearance at Sydney Tivoli just
as it was going to press, turns out to be good, but
not quite up to the level of several predecessors.
Boyde has a fund of natural humor and is
smart with “ asides.” He says “ Damn ” plainly
and naturally, and thereby wins the laughter of
the house. Great (for stage purposes, anyhow) is
the power of “ Damn.” Herbert La Martine does
some dazzling baton spinning. He also dances, and
the programme says he is a .vocalist. Martin
Henderson, the blind concertina player, continues
to produce a cathedral choir out of his difficult
instrument; La Sylphe brings a breath of Egypt
with her temple dance; the four Eugenes hurl
one another about with infinite grace, and a great
number of other people step dance. The writer
is, of course, aware of the fact that several of
the performers—including one or two singers—
do not step dance, but really they are few. It
seems to be the custom, even after a most affect-
ing song, for the performer to throw care to the
winds, and to leap about in a light-hearted
manner, making meanwhile a rattling sound with
the feet.
26 26 * 26
At Melbourne Royal, the alleged army of
Ravensburg continues to engage in mortal combat
with the supposed military forces of Saxonia,
what time the Ravensburg sovereign is pursuing
his private designs against the Earl and the Girl.
All things considered, the despot aforesaid appears
to be the silliest prince in Christendom. He
might easily dispose of his rival, the Earl, by
sending him to the front fighting line to meet a
hero’s fate, instead of which he keeps the young
man under lock and key, and wastes a lot
of fury upon him and his little brother.
Also, he appoints his own disloyal royal
brother to the command of the military prison,
and in other respects he merits contempt. Never-
theless the Girl hesitates for three months on the
question of marrying this unpleasant German.
She’s a nice, emotional Girl with a fine aptitude
for standing aside and snorting at acts of oppres-
sion, but she is subject to hallucinations. At first
sight of the little brother she imagines him to be
strikingly like Harcourt Beatty, the Earl (although
there isn’t a tittle of resemblance to swear by),
and for the rest of the evening she cherishes the
illusion. So it happens that little Nello (Miss
Lizette Parkes), who probably was born Nellie,
but got shifted into the weaker sex, is taken to
the palace of Princess Mclntosh for his brother’s
sake, and there the guileless mannikin becomes
incorporated for a few minutes with the comic
relief. He’s a child of misfortune, is Nello.
In the first place, he is the victim of
a street accident, and then he gets entangled
with the chronic relief which is reduced to
imbecility by the antics of Tom Cannam and
Charles Bovis. The two lady members of the
“relief ” party perforin their duties in a pleasing
manner, but the men act like circus clowns, and
one of them—Cannam— practises the old epileptic
method of low comedy that originated in the
dramatic school of Saint Vitus. He was rather
deplorable in “The Midnight Wedding, but m
“ Her Love Against the World ” his exaggerations
are even more uncalled for. Apart from the
clowning, the drama is well acted. Thanks to the
vim in the performance and the smartness of the
fittings, the war between Ravensburg and Saxonia
will be carried on behind the scenes until further
notice.
*# * *
“ The Squatter’s Daughter” is still supply-
ing, at Melbourne Bijou, the same demand for
Australian bushranger drama that kept her boom-
ing at the Royal a year ago. If Anderson s
season is to be for six weeks only, the Daughter of
Squatter should have sufficed to fill the term, but
another sensational panto., “ His Luck in
London,” is promised for Saturday.
* * *
In spite of its weirdly unattractive title
“The Mummy and the Humming Bird” isenjoying
a fairly prosperous Christmas season at Melbourne
Princess’s. The plot touches on the possibility
of a divorce suit, and Melbourne is just now look-
ing for suspicious circumstances where married
women are concerned. When Lady Lumley keeps
an appointment at Signor D’Orelli’s bachelor es-
tablishment, the audience mostly takes out its
watch to time the length of the consultation, and
although she professes repentance shortly after her
arrival, the jury becomes deeply interested as soon
as the giddy Signor imprints a salute upon
the lady’s neck. Fortunately, the husband arrives
at this tempestuous moment. Before he leaves
the premises the audience feels, with regret, that
there is no further cause for alarm. The absent-
minded scientist has suddenly developed the
mental alertness of Hawkshaw, the detective,
and as the result of his masterly tactics he leaves
the Signor horror-stricken in the centre of the
stage, with a pale green light streaming on his
evil countenance. A fourth act, coming after
this melodramatic situation, is somewhat of
an anti-climax ; but the play is so constructed
that the Signor’s discomfiture needs to be
rubbed in, otherwise the curtain would
fall too soon. Furthermore, the dramatist is
bound to deal with the doubt he has raised as to
whether the vengeful organ-grinder will get his
stiletto into the Signor’s heart. If it were an
Andersonian or a Meynellgunnian drama the end
would be a gory act of poetic justice. H. W.
Varna would hide behind a curtain of the sitting-
room in the Hotel de ’Londres (4th act), and,
after playing a few bars of Chopin’s Funeral
March on his organ, he would come forth and
make one addition to the death-rate. “ The
Mummy and the Humming Bird” is not built
that way. The Signor escapes undamaged, and
the lady whom he didn’t lead astray is conducted
safely to supper by her husband, like the giddy,
but faint-hearted, matron in “ The Liars.” Miss
Beatrice Day has improved her clever perform-
ance of Lady Lumley ; also the new-comer, A. S.
Homewood, is a less elderly and saturnine Signor
than he was at first. All the same, he and Her-
bert Flemming in the two name-parts are about
equally unconvincing. On Saturday the highly-
unpoetic drama will be ousted by “ The Vicar of
Wakefield” —or rather “ Olivia’’—which is a
pretty play in more than one respect. The full
strength of Flemming’s new company will be
applied to the performance of “ Olivia.”
* ■* * *
Talking again of the panto, at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne.), it seems that the flame
of material ambition hath tipped the jowl of Mrs.
King Solium with glad, alcoholic spots. Nowa-
nights, the antique creature takes her extravagant
progress through “Humpty Dumpty,” and, as her
social condition improves to one of a regal
splendor, so the modest pink upon nose and
cheek-bone grows to the rich, warm bloom of the
dipso. The lady has certainly the attraction of
a beery, “bottle-oh” aspect of things; but she
has the deplorably vulgar habit of eating
peanuts all over the palace, a practice that
has ceased among kings and overlords since
“ Diabolo ” became the rage. Then Solium, her
rackety monarch and spouse, must needs meander
on the beach with a mermaid, a thoroughly royal
proceeding, but not calculated to delight Mrs.
Solium, who can well conceive, among the
anemones and pearl-oysters, a giddy time with a
presumptive co-re. who displayed the seductive
attributes of woman plus the choice edibility
of the “kipper.” However, Bert Barton and
Harry Phydora are companionable jokers in these
two parts, but, as suggested in an especial in-
stance last week, the fun need not resemble the
meat in a boarding-house sandwich—immeasure-
able area without measurable depth. For the
time being, Harry Shine makes the most of his
little lyrical spasm, “Pardon Me!” and the
apologetic cough thereof is a thing of dream.
Likewise, most of the ladies are keeping their
ends up very creditably, and Olga Grey, which
looks like an old name with a new sound, is im-
personating with more than a suspicion of favor ;
and Bert Barton makes an inefficient king-
let on Solium’s throne, with a pretty habit of
‘ ‘ chipping ”to the ballet. Still the greatest of all
things is the Wheel of Life, which spills itself in
a Niagara of young Australian girl.
** * *
An inducement to go to West’s Pictures
these warm nights is the ante-room where re-
freshments are served at casual tables. The
interval seems to have been ordained by Provi-
dence for the inhaling of lemon squash through a
long straw, under novel circumstances. The
transformation of Wirth’s Olympia into West’s
Pictuna commenced at the place where the
animals used to smell. The menagerie of yore is
now an ice creamery and fernery, offering an un-
precedented stretch of opportunity to anyone
who wants change of scene without leaving the
premises. Long drinks through a straw are not
supplied gratis, but the citizen who samples
West’s Pictures on a concession ticket and goes
for a long walk in the adjacent building feels
that he is getting spacious entertainment, anyhow,
* * * sfc
A matter of grave import to man’s conceit
in his own prowess was the arrival of the three
Sisters Klos at Melb. Opera House last Saturday
night. The ladies, who combine physical attrac-
tion with exceptional muscular equipment, are
entitled to all the rhapsodies one can invent for a
theatrical ad. Lach Klos is quitecapable of hanging
by one hand to a ring suspended from the flies
and of swinging her body right over her head
while, in the matter of suspending each other,
they are extraordinarily casual. Indeed, the
tallest of the trio, who is generally the central
ornament of a unique animated design, so to
speak, has a practice of hanging by one leg from
the ring, and of allowing the other fair Klosses
to swing round and round upon her extended
arms without any visible slackening of tlieii
rigidity, the weight being scarce less than 22st.


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
!h ■ 13 a Rt:l j t^' ) ng P erf °riHance, calcu-
lated to have things said about it for quite a time.
** * *
Adelaide’s Christmas shows are moving on
and away Wirths’ Circus has moved, hut only
to a round of the country townships. It is a good 7
and occasionally great, circus. Skuthorp’s buck-
rr\ hav « e go u e a , is °‘ The - y were not too popu-
!,n tn a n r h ’ thr °" gh l)e ' n g unable to live
up to the delirious superlatives of Skuthorp’s
advertisements and bills and circulars. (As an
examp le , he declared that the Governor-General
would probably come over for a special open-air
nv!> f °M ma ii Ce V » r , K)llgh no hody worried greatly
over Nortbcote’s absence, the incident gives an idea
of the sort of advertiser Skuthorp is.) Mev-
nell and Gunn, at the Royal, have taken up the run-
■ matt^ r of superlatives. They say that
A Warning to Women ’’-which is pretty ordi-
nary melodrama— created on its first production
in Condon ‘the most profound interest in the
history of the Drama.” The Tivoli has, among
other good items, four Ibsons, who make marvel-
lous music; and Price and Revost, who manage
o be x>th athletic and funny. Other shows are
pictures, mostly.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Albani, in her comparatively tuneless oldage, continues
to turn the ghost of her fame to financial account in the
bye-ways of the Hempire. At latest the faded prima-
donna had been smirking and singing, and displaying her
tiueen Victoria decorations to the unsophisticated public
of the minor towns in India. Alec Middleton, the pilot
of the tour, reports that Albani melted 30,000
rupees—which is considerably better than nothing
from five towns, and the larger centres of
civilisation were still to be exploited. All the same,
Albani battling for rupees under the dusky patronage of
remote rajahs is a pathetic figure in musical history.
Her dimensions as a singer may have been somewhat
overstated in her best days ; nevertheless she was Great.
And her opportunities were great. Like Jenny Lind, she
should have made enough hay while the sun shone to be
able to find restful retirement on the shady side of the
haystack.
Maggie McCann, the Melbourne songstress who went
to ’Murka and secured her share of the Tartan vote,
reckons that The Bulletin owes her another mention.
a ll right.' A few w r eeks ago she was summoned
to Montreal, and a monster gathering of Canadian Cale-
donians expressed sober gladness at having paid to hear
her warble. She was introduced to Earl Grey,
the Governor-General, who addressed her in the Eng-
lish language to the effect that her rendering
of auld Scawtch sangs was absolutely braw\ Just now
she is a “star” member of the Bonnie Brier Bush Co.,
which represents the best haggis quality of foreign talent
in the land of Uncle Sam. One must be a verra Scawtch
and verra acceptable artist to get elected to the Bonnie
Brier clan of Yankee Doodle.
Signor Alberto Zelman died very suddenly. One after-
noon he was the usual grotesque in Glen’s music
shop doorway, on the Block, and next morning was found
dead in his bed. Zelman was the quaintest of Melbourne’s
many eccentrics. All the comic artists have had a
cut at him, but even Will Dyson couldn’t caricature him,
because the old man was so much “over the odds” that
he was a caricature in himself, and art could no further
go. He wore a mass of neglected hair and whiskers, on
top of which perched a small, dusty felt hat that seemed to
have been forgotten ; his clothes were never new', and his
trousers advertised “no connection” with his vest.
Alberto usually carried his hands dipped under the waist
band of his pants, like a conscientious member of
push society. On one tremendous occasion an effort was
made to crowd the old musician into a new frockcoat and
a glossy belltopper, but he resisted violently. “ Tisguise
myself, me, Alperto Zelman —no, neffer ! ” he cried.
The recent amazing yarn in Melbourne' Herald, to the
effect that Blanche Arral is a Russian Princess, aged 32, is
not quite consistent with the oft-repeated statement that
she was the “original ” Laura in Millocker’s comic opera,
“The Beggar Student.” The first performance of “The
Beggar Student” happened some time between 1880 and
1885, according to the Musical Dictionary register, and
the opera was played in Australia 10 years ago.
“Silas Snell”: I was delighted wich the dressing of
Williamson’s Melbourne panto., “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Whatever other faults the panto, may have, the gowning
•and garbing- are certainly not “ too humpty.” In fact, it
is a long time since we have had so many exquisitely
■dressed ballets and marches, and the satisfaction is all
the more cheerful for the fact that the costumes are of
Australians, by Australians, for Australians. The w-ork
-of designing was given over to local artists, Miss Ida
Rentoul, Miss Ruby Lindsay, Mrs. M. Binnie, and Mr.
P. Benson, and their work is decidedly superior to the
great swag of imported stuff. The costumes for the
Australian States ballet are well-thought-out and
delicately-tinted, so is the gear for the grand March of
Nations, while the dressing of a Coral Ballet is wholly
delightful. This last is, to my mind, the prettiest
thing we have seen here, the tinting is laid on with artistic
repression, and throughout the show there is an absence
of the obnoxious jam-label garniture that so often gives
the judicious occasion to shed the salt and grievous tear.
soprano) Mrs' the new Italian
ingr- People here are £* arde "’ t ’ othei ' even-
Melba off the ton neS , h6 ' ™ lce wiU sb ake
voice sunnnnoH • has an amazing*
her bi g UP a P u o die„ees y to" that fairl >’
concert last week a f»nmnl l* 6 *' I P unl .'B' an orchestral
box accompaniedby an7Bstnnp St h a ,an Sl,, r er entered a
“The celebrated pL\ 18 ; st °ne chaperon, in black silk,
dude pointing t „^ h e p hant an<l Cas tle,” remarked a loud
KloSSfthe feS* ""luire 6 the n %[r°cumfe e rence
other'day asked its readers, the
nor thp imagine Harry Lauder shedding tears
from the hel e rt'- ne w \ he real kind that co ™ es (*>)
have never seen T ml! fac ,V most °J the paper’s readers
gets a'fabido 18 * “ MVbtaSSfi^wK
fs a stout ih,“rfv SUBI , Per nighfc) about two years ago. He
r.oi«i tan.,,* s zitsx’sggrsssst
No Scotsman ever dressed, walked or talked off the sCe
would Ud bf a^ lit ’ a,ld Wentfree and Molested g lt
overcome to
* a my.Sry S "* “ <*• ■»<*
niflcen thnor hii- ’ eard Clara Butt again. She is a mag-
“ P °?" t m °ther and a wonderful wife, with a mi«-htv
mezzo-soprano voice ; but she’ll never be a great singer
doesnottmmhtht h She astounds, but she
aoes not touch the heart, as did Patey, Ada Crosslev and
°? b £ r “"trait l who were not billed as having “ The Voice
Ce m« ry '” Ken -, Rum ’ is mcomparabfy the greater
feelbt -,ri „ e Prod xr CL ' on , breat hing, phrasing and
= a / y fine ‘ Now, if Clara only had hubby’s
hear her hlfh WOuld be a superb singer. Pd like to
The reekl«fl 1 h ® r V 01 K ce at stampeding cattle out back.
ness and silence. g W ° Uid be Stricken into stilb
wi d^, de ; : ? la " d Holt is definitely announced by
season f n ° t ' t de,aide as booked tor a
season m 1908. Bland has not been here for years, and
bS;LXb,tSoS«, H *„ r S' re '"‘‘*’’ <i but
°J the deafch > in En gland, of an old Aus-
tral an actor and musician, Charles Howson, connected
world fin vei^ that floUFlsh ® d irl the musical and dramatic
in Svdnev in ih°°' Erank and Jobn Howson appeared
in Sydney in the early forties, having come from Tas-
mania m company with Mrs. Carandini and her
Stewart* “tv! w™' Stlrlin "> afterwards Mrs. Bichard
Stewart. The Howsons continued in Australia up to the
mp?’ , Wl . e , n lhe -y migrated to America. The
before thp Ch i ar fr e fv. HoWB u n > Enmm and clelia . made fame
before they left these shores, and added to it in England.
Charles Howson joined the orchestra of Henry Irvine-
and remamed with him 23 years. He didn’t make music
a !j b ® tm ! e > fe nt acted variously as agent in advance,
press agent, and treasurer-in-chief at the London Lyceum.
“0.K.”: This is written on behalf of all Melbourne
™f‘° al f ,f olk ,' vho object to a “Sydney musical
authority” writing of Melba’s voice in Sydney
from other than a strictly Sydney point of
hearing. The authority in question told The
Bulletin of the night nearly ten years agone, when he
heard Melba for the first time,” and was struck by the
freshness of her voice—the voice of a “sweet child
woman. ’ Then he went on to ask : “ Would the Melba
voice of last /week compel any such allusion? It is
divine, but is it divine as a girl’s voice is divine ? Is it
stdl, for that matter, of an effortless, undimmed freshness
even? We, in Melbourne, deny to the Sydney person
an unfettered use of the verb “is” in speaking only
of what was in Sydney. The Melba who sang
with a wondrous girl-like sweetness at Melbourne
Town Hall, more especially at her first concert there,
before going to Sydney, was in better voice than the
Melba whom the Sydney person heard subsequently. As
for his reference to the first time he heard Melba “ nearly
ten years agone ”—it is not convincing evidence. The pre-
sent writer protests for himself and others who heard
Melba in Melbourne five years ago, when her voice
although not more youthful than now, was younger in
tone than it had been—say 23 and 24 years ago, when we
heard her often. Here in Melbourne there seemed to be
a unanimity of opinion among experienced listeners re
the youthfulness of Melba’s voice. The writer heard of
only one dissentient from the opinion that the songstress
sang like a girl.” It was George Musgrove, who said
that Melba “sang like a boy”—the highest possible testi-
mony to “youthful freshness.”
“D.”: Harry Plimmer makes a comely Prince of
Wales in “ The Scarlet Pimpernel,” but his costume isn’t
carried out to my full satisfaction. Across his chest
Plimmer duly wears the broad blue ribbon of a K.G (the
Garter is the greatest of British orders—the one which
Palmerston coveted “ because it carried nod—d offensive
suggestion of merit with it”), but for some obscure
reason no discernible Garter encircles the Theatre Boyal
mime’s knee-breeched leg. This is not as it should
be. The present King of Spain expressly mounted
knee-breeches and silk stockings (in defiance of
all Spanish precedent) at the Spanish Embassy dinner in
London, last month, so that he might display his newly-
acquired Garter, and every other self-respecting royalty
does the same. A K.G. who takes his distinction in a
proper spirit would no more dream of going into society
with his Garter-ribbon on his chest and no Garter on his
leg than Justice G. B. Simpson would of doing the block
in a tall hat and sand-shoes.
“ J.D.” : It’s curious— apropos theglut of melo- or semi-
melodramatic shows staged in our chief cities of late (see
B. 26/12/’o7)—that Williamson doesn’t give us something
which has stir and color, and yet is of literary value. It
would surely pay. There is no lack just now of capable
artists to interpret good plays. Picture Ola Humphrey,
for example, in “The Master Builder.” She would be
great. She has the voice, and sweet emotional face, and
the temperament to make a perfect Hilda. The part of
the Master Builder himself would glisten with “fat”
for our own Julius, and be calculated to inspire
that mime far more, one trows, than the portray-
ing of “ Silver Kings ” and the like. And townsfolk (if
only at the start because Ibsen came as a new thing to
them) would flock to satisfy their curiosity, or to be in
the movement ; and go again afterwards because, for all
his obscurities, Ibsen, capably acted, has a genuine grip.
Shaw plays, again, “draw” nowadays like wildfire in
New York, London, and the British provinces. There is
no reason to think we Australians are any less appre-
ciative of good stuff than our connections oversea. A
robust piece, teeming with life and observation, such as
(say) “The Devil’s Disciple,” would be a magnificent
opportunity for a sound handler of debonnairefy heroic
rdles (again Julius occurs with insistence), and there are
no minor parts which might not be well filled locally.
The Humphrey lady would be great as the exquisite
young woman in “Captain Brassbound’s Conversion
she who, by her blighting common sense, ruins for ever
the “attitude ” towards life of her high falutin’ sea-rover
captor—and humor-lovers here would greet the acid wit
of the lines with great (and paying) joy. We don’t get
crude melodrama in Australia because we want it parti-
cularly. The position is that the managers think we do.
Undoubtedly, we badly want some brand of drama, and,
failing a good brand, are prepared to pay cheerfully these
good times for an indifferent one. But the real dramatic
gold-mine—the one beside which that of Bilanderson will
seem but a wild-cat affair, and a deposit of niundic, and
a narrow 2dwt. reef—awaits the dauntless original who
tries the experiment of presenting to us something in
the theatrical line which is of real interest and worth.
“ Philo ” : Some years ago the rivalry between Melba
and that other world-famed singer, Nordica, used to be
very keen, and the latter never missed a chance of
deprecating her Australian rival. An instance : Melba
wrote to a New York paper stating that she did not
intend performing Wagner’s “ Brunhilde ” for years to
come for fear of injuring her voice. Nordica, who under-
took to appear in the part, wrote to the same journal :
“ Wagner’s music never injured anyone who could sing
it, and who knew how.” How these great singers love
one another !
invariably represented 6 bvV' ni T v , lodrama - who is
re i ady ed o b n ei any brimln H Sr ° ver<with virtues,ls alw^so
thereof pr’eseXd to P roof
every Blanderson^roduction. 1 "
used‘the 'bloke^^-If• her husband of another bloke,
or leaned fa reo. n f tian nau i e ’. The husband started
electrocution and l starfc 1S soniel bingr between
“Then vou have niot- b eh' ,Utnp °1 a balloon), and shouted
n>,f!k- V S U j , net thls uian before?” She admitted
vened b the a h d kn ? vv ". him for some years. “My God f ”
vn i h the , hero > 'ooking- up to the gallery. “ Wumman
out o b f hh, l 16 6" unfa,thful to me.” Then' he ordered her
out of his house, shanty, property, or hovel. The only re
hfmTnS h 6atUre ° f thafc soe,ie W! * B that shedidn’t implore
him to “have merc.y-for the sake of our chee ild "The, 6
Jl Then e in n the'i ied t’ W !? i< l h P ° ssibsy explained the on,is-
. ' ln be as t a °t, he was represented as wishing
for what l r ,rf^ llld tell her thac he had forgiven her
for what she didn’t do. And yet nothing had happened in
went "which e’oidd'h aS the k "°'v>edge of
him k • dbe reason ably expected to convince
’ ~ee. There is one shining exception to
n, d degrading stage suspicion. In “ Arrah-
thePhut 6 cabir? la h ' S found to have spent some days in
and l’- hen ' oo °P’ ° r dog-kennel of the heroine,
_ o< y t 0 ha J' e J & lven ber a largre sum of money. In, this
hern except the hero believes herg-uiltv. >The
UsuanVhe e is o ?HrclieTs’ku P nk anding in tbe business ’
the°“n 0 e n w^ IM onp anyh i 0W ’ d ° esn ’ fc reckon that Tetrazzini,
“ Her execution nf a i ar ’ ol ' tshmes Australia’s Melba.
of scales an d ornaments is almost com-
parable to that of Melba,” says this critic. “ On?fin“ne
respect ‘s there a conspicuous defect in her singino- and
that is that she does not hesitate to break any phrase in
order to breathe quite comfortably. It would pass
without remark if foolish comparisons had not been made
such artists as Patti and Melba.” So, wldle the
Times is referee, anyway, the singing kangaroo won’t
have to moult any of its tail feather!.
fSvdnev\ nb rccl;,H ande u ed d ° Wn by the back of Paling’s
smindtVwo ® nt ! y * and was amazed at the discord of
sounds that assailed my ears. From all sides proceeded
noise d I e s y if°th P b o W yel f l 'm er and instrum ental din and
noise, as if the orchestra of Tophet was having a rehearsal
howT of n a g hndd’ ™ in w l m his throaty tones with th e thin
scaJes" f Jv,iii ld f , Melba energetically practising her
vigiroush b wlth e n d do r 0r ar V nfUriate d basso contended
* th d stressed gramophone opposite. A
str ngdueton a ground-floor joined issue with a piano
whu]U VaB beln ". sham efully treated on the flat above
vhile somewhere in the background someone was receiving
a lesson on the trombone. The result was calculated to
provoke a piece of the breach. In the middle distance of
the narrow lane, miscalled a street, sat a mongrel doo-
stricken w ?° m >“?.* abova b ™ emanated the
stricken wad of a languishing contralto. I have ob-
served that a dog’s taste in music is exactly on a par
with -hat of a Chinaman. His lamentations grew louder
dreadffu' , " crfta . ! ’ ed ' Tbe row be lnade »» something
dreadful, and quite up to the standard of the noises
f,^ l ' nd bl , m - .Suddenly a window shot up, and the spite-
ful face of an irate dago-looking cove, with long hair and
a bow in his hand, leapt into view. The dog would not
budge, overmastered by the tumult of his emotions The
professor snapped out “ Shoo,” and waved his bow and
hair, and the effect was weird, but the dog didn’t shift!
He was touched by the conglomerations of dreadfui
sounds and couldn t drag himself away. Then
else touched him deeply between the ribs. It looked like
He tefn tbe iron of ifc entere d into his soul.
He yelped and slunk away, and I reflected on the envious
heart of a man who could be so bitterly jealous even of a
, J-P- ” (Barealdine, Queensland): A picture-fakir
thltVur hIS ha J"! et tbe otber ni ff ht - His Alms depicted
the thrilling and emotional incidents that led up to the
greatest social tragedy of modern times ” —which is
flickergraphese for the Thaw case. There was Mrs
Thaw preparing for the stage; Mrs. Thaw taking a
dancing lesson; the velvet room with 100 mirrors-
meeting with millionaire White; motor cars and’
carnages: and yes-The Murder. (The man with
the camera happened to be in the roof-garden
eatre the exact moment the slaying occurred !)
The murdered architect White was filmed as
an inoffensive old soul of the Sabbath plate-pushing
type the last sort one would expect to be mixed up
in such a scandal. Mrs. Thaw—the beauteous Evelyn of
our musmgs—recalled somebody’s stout widowed aunt as
to the figure ; her face had St. Vitus dance, and so re-
mained a mystery. Then there was Mrs. Thaw’s mother
who was like her daughter, only worse. As to Thaw him-
selt well, over the cinematograph conception of Thaw
I prefer to draw the curtain of mercy. There was no
detail of this cheerless story too sacred for the movable-
picture demon. Thaw in the Tombs, visited and embraced
y > Thaw in religious vein, considering a shaky
Bible ; Thaw overcome with remorse and weeping—in
fact. Thaw in pretty well every possible situation except
washing himself.
H sues without saying that wondrous yarns are told of
the theatrical projects of John Wren-cwm-George Mus-
grove. Their individual capacity for advt. has ever been
enormous. The opera artists of G.M., viewed through
G.M s magnifying glasses, were only excelled in greatness
by the hired stoushers of Wren, as depicted in Wren’s
announcements. When two showmen of the Wren and
Musgrove type (with “Jack’s” capital to work upon)
combine in an attempt to shake thing’s up, the “ pre-
liminary puff ” department is bound to be a most attract-
ive feature of the business.
Following the usual course of things, a small dramatic
company, recently touring the Queensland “smalls”
arranged a Sunday night concert. The difficulty was to
find warblers. The “property-man,” in the 'modest
retiring way of his ilk, offered his services, and was'
promptly programmed for “ In the Shade of the Old Apple
Tree.” After the first two or three bars a slight mis-
understanding arose, and when it came to the last verse
there was a complete estrangement between singer and
accompaniment. This led to a heated argument after the
show. Eventually the stage manager interfered “ I
tell yer straight, if it hadn’t been a Sunday ni°-ht I’d
have asked Gawd to strike him dead,” said the riled
vocalist.
“S.T.S.”: As to Farjeon, the novelist, in Australia
(B. 5/12/’O7). That prolific writer afterwards planted on
a fictitious goldfield of this continent one of the most
childishly ingenious devices ever seen in a book: Rough
bar in mining township. Mysterious murder, with no
clues, the one subject of conversation. Landlady proudly
announces arrival of consignment of “ red rum ’’—some-
thing extra special. She puts up the words “RED RUM 1”
on a glass door. Ruffian with incipient jim-jams comes
in, sees the letters the reverse way against the light
takes them as making “MURDER f” (which they do, if
you don’t mind half of them being wrongside foremost)
imagines the hand of Heaven to be pointing at him, and
confesses All. It is a wonder the idea has never been
worked into a melodrama ; it would probably act better
than it reads. “ Human Hearts ”is welcome to it.
Just as The Bulletin was going to press
it received an urgent telegram from Broken Hill
asking whether Canada is in America. It is
pleased to relieve a fellow-creature’s mind by say-
ing “ Yes.”
Martin Larkin, senr., a champion pioneer
type, died at Moss Yale the other day. He was 96
years of age, and had been in the district for 70
years. He kept the original old Bong Bong inn
(it was near the present racecourse, whereon the
“ picnic rider ” loves to disport himself) in the
dark old days before Sutton Forest and Moss Yale
were dreamt of; and he owned a father who lived to
95, and a wife who is 89 and still going strong;
also 170 descendants.
W. E. Smith’s Australasian Diaries for
1908 are to hand, with the alarming information
on the cover that 1908 is Leap Year. The diaries
are of various sizes and shapes, interleaved with
blotting paper, and contain a variety of useful
information.
The commercial travellers have issued
their inter-State annual, “Australia To-Day,”
and have made a good eighteen-penn’orth of it.
It contains nearly 200 pages of matter, is liberally
illustrated with good photographs, and is packed
tight with up-to-date information regarding the
Commonwealth.
. The latest variation of the Petriana ner-
jury bobs up in an English magazine thus •
16 Chinese and 11 Malays, being shipwrecked off m
bourne, were forbidden to land, and would have pfrished
had it not been for the kindness of the captain <ff
AnH"ih’i Vh ( OClothed and ,pd the half-drowned wretches
i&syss? -tats
It is useless to attempt to explain to the man in
London that the original lie was concocted by
alleged Australians tor the deliberate purpose of
discrediting Australia. He couldn’t understand
such treachery. No Petriana perjurers could
follow their odious stinking-fish trade in London
and remain there in peace. They would probably
remain there m pieces. "
J immi e Pannikin”: It is awkward to
argue with a dead man, especially after having
written an appreciative epitaph. ‘ Yet I musf
Mention was made in “Medi Cn«s’ ” loci- •
hution 9A/10/>IV\ r RUI Yuss last contri-
bution (B. 26/12/ 0/) of a young and charming girl
in charge of a small hush school, not far horn
Lego, earning a colossal £2O a year. The amount
could not, under present regulations, exceed £25
ss rrtiJr * s *• <. *“SdS
one, the teacher is supplied by the parents
with board, lodging and washing The subsidy
is, however soon to be increased. Numbers of
sifaP b T m ° St SUCCRSsfuI candidates at the
small-schools examinations come from the subsi-
dised schools; and, after a period of three months’
training at a district school, start at a salary of
£7 a month. I still maintain that it is “a wise
and generous regulation that enables isolated
families to employ a subsidised teacher—wise and
generous indeed in comparison with the methods
of previous administrations, which made no
attempt whatever to afford any education to
isokted Outbackers and Inbackers. No other
btate department does so much for the hush
folk as theN. S. Wales Education Department”
nfhp the Ma State is far ahead of any
other Australian State, or of the United States*
Sn° nf S ?f nd , s ° Orally on behalf of the educa-
on of the children of the larger towns. This
forceful fact has been noted hy Victorian educa-
tion expert I rank Tate, and other travelled
teachers and investigating inspectors. Cer-
the ahowance should be increased ; but
the half-loaf of the present day is better than the
no bread of former times.
r D / ea f£ J 6gal tale from “Puzzled,” Wel-
lington (M.L.)
Was engaged in court when a telegram from a town 20
rmles out, was handed to me-“ Come at once impor
tant case. Harry Mugg.” Harry was on the platform to
meet me. “ Well, what’s the trouble ?” I asked “I am
up for having an unregistered dog.” “ Good God >” I
minH lb HaVe y ° U . ? rol,shfc me here this?” "Never
Sn WiTO be , re P‘ ied - “ I want you to deal it
to bL Smith Hes suing me because I never went
to his old mans funeral.” “But have vou a do"-?’’ I
“ Thi he re S l l ed ’ “ 18 ifc registered ?” “°No.”
»ncl!,i n La Vhat s - you s defence ?” “ Never mind that,” he
answered, passionately. “ Deal it out to Smith ; that’s
Two l Tav P«t re f ° r -] Ve adjourned to the court-house.
Two Jay Pees presided. I took my seat, with Harrv
nearby The local constable started to open for the
1 °I JjeCt , ed ’. aS Bill Smith
The constable effaced himself. Smith then began un-
easily as follows : Look ’ere, Ned ” (to one of the jus-
ot C n B ’ lam t -" 0t ! 10 down on ’ A rry. I was a bit annoyed
at im not coming to my old man’s funeral, but I don’t
want im eavily fined.” “Rub it in,” hissed my client
viith fury Keep quiet,” I replied, “he hasn’t mem
tioned the fact that you have a dog yet. “Rub it in ”
was his only answer. I remained silent. That concluded
the case for the prosecution. I contended—
(D There was no proof that defendant had a dog.
registered? 3 d ° g ’ there WaS n ° proof ifc was un ‘
(3) There was no properly-appointed registration office
as required by the Act. And, ’
no ( , 4 2, Tbat th . e l0( .“ al Ben ?h had no right to hear the case,
as they were local councillors, and would receive the fine
for their council.
J bey consulted together. The local constable suggested
they should retire and consider their verdict. Thev did
—into his room with him. After 10 minutes, they
returned, and, addressing my client, said: "Look ’ere*
Arry, it isn t any use } r our denying’you have a doe’ for it
worried Jack White’s sheep ; so we fine you ten bob and
costs. We retired stricken. “What do I owe you?”
f 8 K ed . my client, mastering his rage with difficulty. I
told him He wrote me a cheque and said, “ You’re the
poorest hand I ve ever seen, and this is the last job you’ll
have of mine. We had no appeal, for the Act requires
the consent of the Justices who heard the case to that
appeal. And Harry got the private office from one of
them in the School of Arts that night that they were all
so incensed at his unsportsmanlike conduct in importing
a lawyer to make things unpleasant, that they wouldn’t
give any decision in his favor for months to come.
“A.8.C.” : My mate at the Poseidon rush
was an artist. After turning into our bunks he
would take out the dice and cards and have a bit of
practice. He was beautiful to behold. A flip of
the fingers, and I could see only red cards.
Another flip, and there was nothing but black I
shuffled and cut myself, but it made no difference.
He could make those pasteboards talk Greek!
Ihe dice were the same. “You don’t want sixes ”
he observed. “People watch for them. Load
the, deuce and give it to your opponent. He
can t say anything. He’s throwing it himself ”
-Timmy told me his last adventure in Melbourne.
He was on the racecourse and somebody was
doing the walnut and pea. He didn’t know him ;
it was a new man at the game, Jimmy watched
his manoeuvres, looking innocent. The unknown
spieler talked at him. “ Where’s the pea’ Any
sport have a try ? ” Jimmy asked him to do it
again. He looked puzzled at the sleight of hand
and then said, “I think I can find it.” “A
dollar, sir?” said the expert. “Right,” says
Jimmy, “here it is.” He picked up a pea from
under the walnut shell. “That’s not my pea ”
cried the expert. “Well, where is yours ? ” said
-Jimmy. The expert couldn’t explain the swindle
before the wondering crowd. “ That’s right,” he
said, “here’s your dollar.” Jimmy could feel
that spieler’s eyes following him for an hour after-
wards.
The much vexed question of what kind of
whisky is legally entitled to the name is to be
settled, in America, by a board of experts. The
question of which brand is the best for drinking
purposes was never very vexed, as is proved by
the distinct partiality of the discriminating for
D.C.L. The thoughtful seeker of an occasional
mental quickener and D.C.L. are often—though
not too often—united in the most genial ties of a
wise alliance.*
John Sands (Sydney) publishes the first
number of a N.S.W. “ Municipal Year Book and
Shires Directory,” edited by W. W. Clarke., It
contains a variety of useful information about!the
new Local Government law, mixed with tit-bits
like:—
About 400,000,0001 b. of soap are used in the United
Kingdom yearly.
J. Bull’s consumption of soap hasn’t any direct
bearing on N.S.W.’s Local Government, and,
unless the “ Year Book ” aims at being a cookery
guide and an Inquire Within Upon Everything,
it will be possible to make a better arrangement
of the matter in Vol. 11., and condenseit to half the
bulk. As a beginning, however, it deserves the
cheerful word of encouragement.
THE STAGE-CAIIPENTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The playwright sits in his cushioned chair and writeth a
drama bold,
And he makes the plot and talks a lot of “ the Alps so
white and cold,”
" hero ‘ ne and hero true hang on to each other’s
And the man of wood—as a varlet should-makes them a
set of Alps.
The playwright sits in his study dim and niaketh a scene
of woe,
The heroine does a long, long whine in the rain and slush
and snow,
Till she says she’ll die, and rushes away with loud heart-
breaking sniffs,
kh® crew-el sea ” —and the varlet he knocks up a mile
of cliffs. r
The playwright sits by a shaded lamp and writeth a noble
play
About ancient kings and slaves, and things that they used
to do and say,
And the carpenter, he says “ Orright ! ” (he has never
moved from home,
But he takes some nails, and he never-fails to put up
ancient Rome).
The author sits and he racks his brains for somethin"-
that’s fresh and new,
His pen he grips, and he talks of ships, and tells of a
starving crew.
Ten men adrift in a sinking barque, and a rocky coast
a-lee.
Does the varlet shirk ? No, he gets to work, and maketh
the stormy sea.
The carpenter is a mighty man with a hammer and four-
teen tacks,
He gaily laughs as he makes giraffes, and idols and
thrones and racks ;
He drinks his beer, like a workin’ man, instead of the
godlike wine,
And only cares when the temple stairs come down on
the heroine.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


COOL COMFORT
at 18/6.
TWO-thirds of a man’s life is spent in his clothes, and so
much comfort or discomfort is dependent on his
judicious selection that we believe the benefits of
the cool and comfortable Crash Suits we are offering have
only to be known to be appreciated.
These are two-piece Suits, in cool Porous, Oatmeal
Crash—there is just a Coat and Trousers as illustrated. The
Coat is cut either round or square, as desired. There is no
lining, and the buttons are movable so that they can be
easily washed. We have these Suits ready-to-wear in all
sizes" If you need a Comfortable, Well-wearing Suit for
holiday use you should try one of these.
We don’t mind admitting that we have had trouble in
the past with these Suits through shrinking, but this year
we have overcome this difficulty by shrinking and boiling
the material before making up, and we guarantee to refund
any Customer’s money who should, by any mischance, have
a genuine complaint on this ground this season.
We show these Suits in our Orient Department, or
send them Carriage Paid to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD..
SYDNEY.
A GOOD CAMERA
IS A JOY FOR. EVER.
The
CAMERA
SET
(Latest
Pattern)
Is specially made to our order to suit the trying and various climates of
Australasia. It is designed to meet the requirements of those who have felt
the need of a Camera Outfit at a moderate price embodying features hitherto found only in
more expensive apparatus. It is suitahle for every class of work. Important improve-
ments which should be specially noted are —Independent Rising Front, when using Short
Focus Lenses ; Focussing Camera Body with extra Rack and Pinion ; Royal Shutter with
all working parts inside; The “Royal Favorite” Camera Set has Triple Expansion
Camera, with Three Racks and Three Pinions, Double Swing Back, and many important
new movements, a Beck Symmetrical Lens, a T.P. Shutter (Royal, Time and
Instantaneous), 3-Fold Stand, Real Leather Bellows.
Complete Outfit: Half=Plate, £7; Whole-Plate, £lO 10s. Can be fitted with other lenses if desired
We Stock a Large Variety of Photographic Requisites in Every Department.
CAfIERAS AT ALL PRICES FROM 8/6 to £5O.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
380 GEORGE STREET, NEAR G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Branch ; 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
THE LIMERICK CRAZE.
FIRST BACKGROUNDER : “ What’s that fellow , an
actor or a poet ?”
SECOND DITTO : “ Neither. He’s a limcrickist.”
The “ boiling downs ” in the City of Mel-
bourne territory (Saltwater River) are trying a
new lurk as the result of much complaint. Instead
of smelling in a general way all day, things are
now arranged so that all the concentrated smell is
discharged in one great smell at midnight’s solemn
hour. The local inhabitants no longer sleep with
open windows, and the Saltwater River constable,
trudging his lonely beat, carries sweet-smelling
herbs, eau de cologne, and attar of rose, and rolls
in front of him a keg of chloride of lime.
“ 10-2-4 ” on the Druce case :
The opening of T. O. Druce’s grave in Highgate cerne-
terv London, and the discovery therein of a body (not
“the body of T. 0. Druce,” as the Sydney Telegraph
calmly had it, but <‘a body'.’ simply) settles a point
which is a mere side-issue in this curious case.
It is 27 years now since Mrs. Walter Druce (wife o
-as she thought—eldest legitimate son of T. G. ) nrsc
smelt a rat in connection with the mystenous transfer of
enormous sections of Eng.and to the Dentine (
Portland) family by her father-in-law for ten
Theorising, she started the idea that T. C. Druce, of the
Laker-street Bazaar, and the then Duke of Port'and were
one and the same, and commenced to agitate, for the
opening of vault No. 13,100, Highgate cemetery. Sir
Francis Jeune, as Probate Judge, had actually made the
order for the exhumation of T. G. Druce»
body when there came a hitch and delay. An
the'exhumation matter could be dealt with again th
particular Mrs. T. C. Druce who was (she was
nte Annie May, an illegitimate daughter of the Earl of
Berkeley) found she was after all not the b rs t, but the
second wife of the elusive T.C ; and one Elizabeth
Crickmer had preceded her and borne children to the
Baker-street Bazaar plutocrat. From till the
Monday before last the representatives of Herb ® r^ ( )r
(“ T.C.’s favorite son”), who of course loses his Present
competence and gains nothing if G. H. Druce turns
be Duke of Portland, have been determinedli »
against exhumation by every ingenuity known to the law.
The just-cabled discovery of human remains in the
coffin is of little moment so far as the main case 13 co -
cerned. Even had lead been found in place of a corpse,
this would onlv have been corroborative evidence (and
none too strong at that) for a jury’s consideration in
support of the “ double life ” story. . , ~
The essential points alleged by the claimant, which t
average man, in his morbid interest in graveyards, wholly
ignores, are these: — „
(1) That T. C. Druce transferred huge tracts of country
to the Bentincks-the Duke of Portland family (pre-
sumably total strangers)—for the paltry consideration of
(2) That no doctor’s certificate was given at the death
of T. O. Druce. (This is still the claimant’s contention,
though London Daily News unearthed a witness recently
who stated that he would testify to the contrary.) And
(3) That T. C. Druce was seen alive by many people
after 1864, in which year he was supposed to have been
buried. , . ...
The resolvin'* of the whereforeness of any one of tne
above is of infinitely more importance than the melo-
dramatic coffin business which has so caught the public
imagination-and they all three remain to be wrangled
over in the coming years, to the great ultimate aggran-
disement of Costs. The only thing the finding of a
body ” in the Highgate vault goes to show is that Herbert
Druce might well have seen a corpse—which he took to
be that of T. C. Druce—in a coffin, and hence is no
perjurer. # , *
“ I’m not with those who say the Australian
publican is worse off than the British one, said
the grog-blossomed owner of a Surry
Hills (Sydney) bottle and jug de-
partment. “I wish Wade and Ins
crowd had better brains, so’s when
they pass a law we’d know what it
means, but otherwise we’re a bit to
the good over our mates in Lunnon.
I ran a dive there seven year, an’
oughter know something. Well,
here, I don’t understand the law,
an’ there I did, and this was one
difference—there’s billetin’ there.
Oh. yer don’t know what billetin’
is ! ' That’s right. Keep so. It
meant this to me : I had to take
Tommies as they wor sent; feed
’em an’ lodge ’em ; charge—4d.
for bed and three-ha’pence for
breakf’st. Eh ? Why did I take
them ? Man, it was in my license
which I had to sign before I
could open a pub. Charges and
all are printed on the license, and
by signing I make it a con-
tract. Is there anything like
that in Horsetralia? No. sir.
Horsetralia beats Britain in the
drink biz. Take my word, that
billetin’ job is the meanest thing
a Government can put up, an’
I’m ready to forgive Horsetralia
a lot in respect of want of brains
in its liquor laws when I think
of Tommies swarming over my
premises at 4d. for a bed, and
three-ha’pence for breakfast.”
* * *
“ Millewa I wish to enter
for a list of proscribed persons
the keepers of specimens of un-
natural history in the Eastern
Market, Melbourne, and other
places. Cockatoos without tails
or plumes, monkeys that scratch miserably and
will not be comforted, ferrets in damp boxes,
and parrots of a uniform color-scheme of dirty
grey, may be objects of commercial value, but
their version of this world as a place of torment
would not be without interest.
« * * *
The Londoner, unlike the Australian,
seems to have quite an aversion to swallowing
impurities with his cowjuice. The other day, a
street vendor, for selling dirty milk, was awarded
six months ! There wasn’t any talk about a fine
either, and the papers don’t mention that it was
an especially bad case. The Court just gave him
his hard labor in the ordinary way of business,
and went on with the next case, and the papers
briefly reported the six months as quite the
ordinary and proper thing.
UNIONISM.
HE (at a loss for something to say): “ I hear
the shop assistants are combining."
SHE: “ Oh. Mr. Smith! This is dreadfully
sudden!”
In a letter to the Carters and Drivers’
Union, a worker in a Melbourne livery stable
stated that for six weeks he had worked from 91£
to 118 J hours a week for a weekly wage of 325. 6d.
This sort of slavery is encouraged by people who
weep in public print whenever it is suggested that
white men should work in the tropics. They say
it is cruelty to ask white men to toil in the heat.
Also just after the publication of this case the
Argus once more started a decayed controversy
on “Why do not men propose?” Another
question is “ Why don’t men hit somebody on
the fat neck with a pick-handle ? ”
“Philo”: Was walking
along William-street. Sydney,
one evening recently, when I
noticed two nice-looking, well-
dressed young women approach-
ing. Suddenly, just as they were
passing me, they commenced to
pirouette wildly and shriek like
the heroine of a Dan Ba,rry melo-
drama. Then one collapsed in
a dead faint at my feet, and the
other ran into the middle of the
road and shrieked extra. A
crowd gathered round the fainted
damsel, and eyed me suspici-
ously, and an elderly, pale-faced
little woman said that she had
seen the whole occurrence, and
announced her intention of pre-
venting my escape. lo be left
with two unknown girls on my
hands, one in a dead faint, and
the other going on at the top of
her voice, was enough to un-
nerve any respectable single
man, unaccustomed to females,
and I began to feel like Walter
Baker looks when the missing
deeds are found in his tail
pocket. A number of people
tried to pacify the loud girl in
the road. Eventually they suc-
ceeded. She approached her
insensible friend carefully, keep-
ing her eyes fixed on the ground.
Then, suddenly, she clutched
excitedly at her skirts, and cried,
“ There it is ! It flew on to her
blouse,” and she pointed with
a trembling finger to a cock-
roach resting unsuspect-
ingly on the pavement.
Then the old girl,
who had un-
dertaken to
prevent my
escape,
dropped
her brolly
and gath-
ered up
her skirts,
and left with great leaps like a kangaroo. A
laborer said “H’m,” and slew the cockroach.
The girl revived, the crowd dispersed, and 1
went on my way with my good character once
more restored to me.
. * * *
The happy, careless campers along the
shores of Port Phillip Bay got a “ holiday ” at
Christmas that will last them a while. By dozens
they trained down to Mordialloc, Carrum and
Prankston, early in the week, pitched their tents
in the ti-tree scrub, and prepared for a joyous
time. Crowds followed them a day or two later.
Wednesday was a blazer, and Thursday was
worse, till on Thursday evening the blessed rain
came, and teemed down steadily all night. The
“ flies ” of the tents—where the tents had any—got
soaked, and sagged, and let the water through.
Those who were in bare tents cowered under their
blankets and listened to the drip, drip, and longed
for daylight. But daylight brought no relief.
The heavens were still agape. The soaked sand
would hold no more rain, and little creeks ran
through the canvas habitations. The scrubafforded
no shelter ; the tents were sodden and sloppy ; the
blankets and clothes a flabby mass. The campers
used boxes of matches trying to light a fire with the
soaked ti-tree, and then had to give it best. And
ever the splash-splash, drip-drip continued, while
it grew colder and colder. By twos and threes
the happy, careless campers splodged along the
weary red-mud road to the station, and got home
to fires and dry clothes and whisky. It is only
once in 20 years that Melbourne gets sin. of rain
in two days, and only once in 50 years that the
rain comes about Christmas ; but the campers
struck that one chance.
* * * *
In a small, quiet way the plague has re-
sumed business in Sydney. There is no big,
centra] authority to clean Sydney and keep it
clean. The 41 mayors aren’t all clean and intelli-
gent mayors—in fact, some of them are very dirty
and very stupid mayors ; the 41 herds of aldermen
include whole fleets of insanitary aldermen ; and
all the droves of town clerks, town halls, debts
inspectors and other cattle make for inefficiency.
Sydney acknowledges the muddlement of the
system, not by creating a Greater Sydney with a
County Council and a staff of highly-paid experts
to boss everything, but by putting water and
sewerage under one central body (because it is im-
possible to have 41 water and sewerage systems),
and health affairs under another (because it is
impossible to have 41 sanitary systems), while gas
is supplied by Private Enterprise (because it is
impossible to have 41 separate sets of gas pipes
and as many gasometers). But even these arrange-
ments don’t alleviate the muddle very much. The
present plague outbreak started in a Marrickville
produce store which had long been regarded as
unhealthy, and for six months the divided author-
ity—the Board of Health and the mayor and
aldermen of the local pocket-handkerchief
borough—had haggled about having the place
compulsorily repaired. The aldermen, having
little useful work to do, had plenty of time to
haggle over a few yards of concrete floor. And
while they “barneyed” over the concrete floor
plague rats accumulated under the old wooden
floor, and the plague started.
THE UNKNOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I was going to a farewell dinner to Mr. E. Strauss
the novelist.” — From, the evidence of Dr. Strong in the
Melbourne Divorce Court.
Sosso we know ! Bunny and Mrs, Lee ,
Fatty and Hec, Olive, Jampot, and Viv !
But here’s a new one, and disguised is he,
And in a literary mask doth live.
The ’Erald introduced us unto “ Novar” house,
But who the devil is this genius Strauss?
Doctor and brewer, florist, whisky man,
And loafing ladies with one child apiece,
Much money has its sting and bears its ban,
From day to day the peccant ones increase.
We know all this —but who’s this latest myst-
’By known as Mr. Strauss, the novelist ?
What’s this—the man of science we accept,
And Thingammy the statesman we do know,
And Whatsissname continues to be kept
Conveniently for uses high and low.
But where is Mr. Strauss? Would it be wrong
To search for him at Scone or Narbethong?
The famous painter Nemo’s known to fiction,
The celebrated tenor, Paul Niente,
But who has, printed, seen the deathless diction
Of Mr. Strauss, genius of summers twenty ?
Where are the literary labors of his fist —
The fist of Mr. R. Strauss, novelist?
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.
A WARNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord Durham, in the course of an address at Newcastle,
said that if the Australian tariff proposals were adopted,
the whole of Great Britain’s shipping industry would De
dislocated. He added that he thought of his own country
before the colonies.
Just a timely word of warning from a patriot oversea,
Just a hint to unbelievers, blind in their servility :
« While ye toil for our advancement, while ye strive at
our behest,
Ye may hug your vain delusions, but —‘We love our
England best.’ ”
We’ve been taught since early childhood that our
“ mother ” holds us dear,
Keeping watch and ward unceasing, and we have no
cause for fear ;
It’s "our" navy in the Channel when the big reviews
are on,
It’s “ our ” army that we prate of when the war of greed
is won.
But the keels were laid in England and the swords are
British steel,
And the men in blue and kharki to their birth-land will
be leal ;
They may vaunt their “ wide possessions” and “ the Em-
pire ” and the rest,
But—we like them better for it—they still “love their
England best.”
We may hold the “ thread of kinship” to the gaze of all
the world —
Will the thread still hold unbroken when the war-flags
are unfurled ?
Pride of race may well be worthy in our hearts to cause a
thrill,
But the pride of one’s own country is a ruling passion
still.
They have learnt it there in England—and they preach
the lesson wide,
“ There are links of gold that bind us stronger far than
aught beside ;
Ye may have our friendship freely, so ye put it not to
test,
But when once ye touch our pockets, then ‘ We love our
England best.’ ”
Oh ! the warning echoes clearly, and it strikes unheeding
ears.
Rouse and arm yourselves in earnest, ye who dream
away the years,
Lest ye wake to hear the clamor of the foemen at your
gate,
And the cry, “ We love our England best ” rings out again
—too late.
N.S.W.
VELDT.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
BEWARE
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anajmia, Insomnia, etc.
of imitations and so-called “ Galvanic ”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
Rheumagnetie ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write —
the RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
w Australasia), 45*47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm cures sore
muscles caused by hard work or severe exercise of
any kind. It is the favorite rub-down liniment of
all prominent athletes. It .keeps the muscles in
fine shape.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
16 1 6 for this Box Calf Boot
Ifi IR never before bought such splendid boot value.
,' w We select the materials, and dictate the
workmanship and style. The result is—a boot of hand-
some proportions—mfvde of superior box calf—constructed
in a way that gives great comfort and every feature of
desirability. YOU would be pleased with them.
PRICE, J6/6 A PAIR.
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
ORDER FORM. PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
Please send me a pair of Boots as above. My size
i - I enclose for 17/3.
Name
Address '
PEAPES & CO* LTD.
MEN'S Jt
OUTFITTERS,
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
One of the quaintest objections levelled
™ter St r n * by the acid Melbourne bar-
rister Duffy during the latter’s speech for
r that Stron b r aspired to be
olairedbv T? * he /JW it was com-
P‘f.i h J- ? uff J’ dld not st and his beloved “a
bottle, a bird and a cab,” but “soda-water, eight-
penny worth of oysters, and a tram-fare.” It is
conceded by ethicless pleasure-seekers
that the season of love should be one of free
expenditure (even if some sordid employer’s till
has to suffer) luxury, recklessness and blithering
idiocy generally. But to have the principle laid
down by a barrister in a court of law is a new
tmng; We may yet have the spectacle of a co-re.
claiming his discharge in consideration of the fact
that on 14 several occasions he got blind drunk
with respondent (the liquor being ’B4 Pol Roger
in magnums) and that he wouldn’t have dreamed
of reeling with the lady for the home journey into
any vehicle less plutocratic than a 42 Explode-
Hard motor car.
* « * «
F. . Ihere are mighty few men who
can resist a woman’s advances if she desires to be
reconciled,’’said the smug Chief Justiceof Victoria
summing up in the Wallace Divorce Case. It’s a
romantic, gallant, Hibernian, and altogether
inaccurate obiter dictum. As a matter of rule—
in so far as there can be any rule in these matters
of human nature—nothing so much hardens the
obdurate masculine heart as feminine pleading.
If a man thinks he has a solid grievance
against a woman, her best plan, sanctioned by long
precedent, is to evoke some real or imaginary
grievance against him and withdraw apart in cold
dignity. If he doesn’t decide then to pursue the
girl lie thinks is determined to escape him, the
case is hopeless, the breach is irreparable, and the
lawyers must be consulted. To pursue an angry
man with “advances ” is like pelting a sore-headed
bear with flowers. If you doubt this theory, ask a
melodramatic hero like Walter Baker who, for
about 20 years, has been implored by a long pro-
cession of stage wives (including Frances Ross,
Harrie Ireland, and other charming and nicely-
clothed women) not to throw them out into a cold
world on the strength of a baseless suspicion ; yet
next moment the thud of the charming and well-
dressed wife striking the cold globe could be heard
all over the theatre. She landed outside every
time.
THOSE CHRISTMAS TOYS.
TOMMY: “ Guess I’m gettin 'a blamed lot er fun
outer Dad's presents! ”
Bookmaker Sam Allen (ye gods !) was
the origin of the “breeze in Court ’’during
Wallace case. Duffy, K.C., commented on
the absence of Braund from the defence, where-
upon Purves, K.C., said: “The man you were
dining with last night.” To which Duffy, K.C.,
replied, “You’re a liar.” The fact was that
Allen and Braund were dining at the Savoy,
when Mr. Duffy entered the room. The bookie
presented Braund to the K.C. “How do you
do ? ” said Duffy, with a frown, and hurried on to
another table. There are times, seemingly, when
fat bookmakers ought to be boiled instead of
merely roasted.
* • * *
The last day of 1907 saw the close of the
longest divorce case in Victorian legal history—
-24 days. The,Malpas case, in 1885, filled 21 days,
and in 1894 Mrs. Dutton got a decree against her
Dr. in 19 days.
The Wallace divorce case, it was calculated,
cost about £2OO per day. That was for the court
ees, barristers’ refreshers, and such-like open ex-
penditure. But often in cases of this sort the
18 r^ 1 J r the smaller portion of the
total expense. There are witnesses to he mum-
VeS , t( ? be P ai d, and various curious
anifwlSh* ar n bet^een solicitor and client,”
and which usually result in a very sore feeling be-
tween the shark and his dinner. Taking a rough
average, it may be reckoned that, if a divorce case
asm St, h K 't 200 A day o P enl y- is costing at least
fsn"f , h fiJ 1 ?/ 1 the ac cnes. The game emphatically
isn t worth the caiMle. Those who are worried
y domestic troubles should never play at ‘it
unless they ha,ve an undertaking from the daily
newspapers (which make most of the profits) to
reimburse their expenses.
* * * *
In no case of recent years has the hostility
between opposing counsel been so marked as in
Wallace v. Wallace. Day after day the peti-
tioner’s representatives snarled at those of the
respondent and co-respondent, and the latter’s
barrackers snarled back with surprising enthu-
siasm. Duffy arose i n his wrath on one occasion
and called Purves “a liar,” and Purves muttered
hght into his bnef, and the remainder of the bar
and all the gents-one heatedly whispered to each
other of bloodshed and what they would have
done if so assailed. When the Strong faction
complained of “spies” and the loathsomeness
ot people who would track an innocent female and
her Platonic acquaintances about the streets at
night, Duffy, with an envenomed glance at his
(( learned friend” across the table, observed that
there was a step lower than that of a spy, and
that was when a man devoted his intellect to
inflaming the passions of a jury,” etc., etc. And
at Purves claim that the work he was doing for
Mrs. Wallace was “a labor of love,” Duffy
directed the harsh, cold laugh of disbelief, and
even went so far, finally, as to hope that certain
ot the counsel for the other side wouldn’t get paid
for their efforts in full. Hatred is indeed rank-
ling deep when one member of the legal union is
found hoping that another won’t get paid in full.
The Sydney Marine Court has made a
more strenuous effort than usual to sort out the
lies told by sailor men
whenever a collision case
is being investigated.
On a hazy night last
month the coasting pas-
senger steamer Peter-
borough came into vio-
lent collision off Bondi
sewer with the collier
Sphene. No lives were
lost, but the vessels
reached harbor with diffi-
culty, the collier sinking
on the way in. The case
for the Peterborough was
that while everybody
was gazing like a lynx at
the passing Sphene, it
turned round and vici-
ously butted the Peter-
borough. The Sph ene
people, on the other
hand, related that while
every man, boy, and dog
on board was watching
the Peterborough, they
were surprised to see it
deliberately turn round
and run them down, ap-
parently out of cussed-
ness aforethought. The
Marine Court listened
all one long summer day
without coming to a de-
cision, and then resolved
that, in all probability :
(1) Everybody was asleep
when the accident oc-
curred ; (‘2) everybody
had told lies all day ;
and (3) would everybody
please call round next
Eriday and be ready to
have his certificate can-
celled ? When Friday
came everybody arrived
with more contradictory
evidence, the only point
on which everybody
agreed being that on
each ship there was a
dado of men doing no-
thing but watch for pas-
sing vessels. The Court
at last tore out most of
its hair, and affirmed its
previous decision that as
liars all concerned were
entitled to honorable mention, and in admiration
of their skill in that direction, it said it wouldn’t
punish anybody. But they who go down to the
seas in ships do seem to lie something tremendous
when they bump on the ocean highway.
* * * m
“ 10-2-4 ” (Sydney) writes :
Passed through the streets of this city on New Year’s
Eve, and really it didn’t strike me as being the subli-
mated combination of Sheol and Gomorrah in the way of
slaughter of innocent morals that the S. M. Herald
limned it. The young woman who journeys from afar in
order to hurl herself into a crowd of slightly drink-in-
flamed lads at 11.30 p.m. should know, and generally
does know, what to expect. She is liable to be mauled
about somewhat; her maiden chin will be firmly chucked ;
not inconceivably she may be hugged. Midnight crowds
aren’t new things in Sydney, and the Sydney girls of last
week are the same old girls for the most part
who have known crowds and the ways of crowds for
quite a while. (The pure young female with a shrinking
horror of contact with the violent young male was
mostly at home by 11.30 p.m. on, the evening of Decem-
ber 31, ’07.) For ribaldry and lightsome conduct
generally a Sydney crowd of the type denounced by
the S. M. Herald isn’t in the same class with, say,
a London one on the maffick. And it isn’t in
the nature of either of them to do the lurid
things to “ pure and innocent girlhood ” that are
alleged. In fact, it isn’t in the nature of the normal
male of any crowd to do such things. The most genuinely
reprehensible and exasperating circumstance about our
crowds, in my opinion, is the callow youth who forms so
large a proportion of them, and who is obsessed by two
small beers and a dogged determination to masquerade
as an inebriate. He is a pathetic but withal most
annoying nuisance. For a genuine drunk one has the
sentiment of half-friendly awe that attaches to all ruins,
human or otherwise. In the presence of the easily iden-
tified bogus article —he who aspires to be a Perfect Young
Devil on Bd. and some loose cigarettes—hatred super-
venes, and a longing that he and his companions would
go away and execute their unconvincing reelings in the
neighborhood of a deep river, and therein step and may-
hap remain.
The graven image of the mother of the
Calf is coming! Bishop Doyle, of Lismore
™ r ° ratln S thereabouts, the other day,
sang a Laudemus. Ihe district in 10 years had
made marvellous strides :
Cause ° f R all. Even the building he
thevZd n ;.i y oW f d a £°od deal to the Cow If
abfe to buUd a « " ld, . lStry they should not have been
the distw B 1 Str l uct,,re - B y ™eans of the Cow
Le 2„ r ne ahea f He remembered the sugar-
far d * J ll ? n the Richmond, and knew the
dozdif thafc fi but he didn’t know half-a-
aozeit who made a profit by it. He was r>\ c «, r
that,it wasn’t so with the dairying. y
Yes Jeshurun hath waxed fat. But, O Jacob,
and thou also, Jeshurun, they that make a graven
image are all of them vanity, and their delectable
tilings shall not profit—they that make a graven
im.age and sacrifice unto it their own offspring,
shall be ashamed. Isaiah xliv., 2, doesn’t exactly
mentjon Cow or the kids that are t lie little slaves
ot the Cow, but the prophet got pretty close up
Iho romance of ail aggressive unbeliever
has just come to an end in Adelaide. He left all
his money to his children for life, and after {That
to the local Freethought Society. Ey the time
the children had finished with it, the society was
as dead as the testator. So for months paSththe
Supreme Court, whenever it had nothing' more
pressing on hand, has been
generalities, such as : (1) Can people who say they
were once elected “life members” of a society
claim to represent it when it has discontinued
meeting and lost its records? (2) Can money
left to a Freethought Society be diverted—say to
the University ? (3) Ought the Court to go out of
its way to help a dead person to spread anti-
Ohristian principles ? Meanwhile, expensive
lawyers worked the estate as if it were a boarded-
out State infant, and Costs got it down and
worried it. And now the Court has ignored the
generalities, and just says that, as there is no
n reethought Society for the money to go to, the
next-of-kin can have what is left of it.
A lot of men are born fools, but happily
the majority grow out of it in time. One of the
few evergreens, an old fiend of 60 years
or so, got loose down at Bondi (Sydney)
on a recent Saturday, and, by way of amusing
himself, started a bogus drowning sensation. The
undertow had scooped out some dangerous holes
and channels, which had been marked by the surf
club’s signals. These spots were avoided by most
of the bathers, so the criminal lunatic had no
difficulty in making his way there, and acting the
part of a struggling surfer. Several men went to
the fool’s assistance whileothers got out the lifelines,
but, as soon as the scare was well advanced and
the whole beach was buzzing with excitement like
a row of capsized beehives, the idiot waded out
grinning, and calmly walked away to the dress-
ing sheds. In the meantime, two of the
men who had gone in after him had been
gripped in dead earnest by the current
and were rapidly going out to sea. Another
group of three who went to their assistance also
got into difficulties, and, at one time, it looked as
if the whole five would be drowned. They were
rescued with great difficulty, and in the general
confusion the imbecile who had caused all the
trouble escaped. That is the really regrettable
feature of the case. A glass case containing an
assortment of fragments and a brief notice like,
“These are the Bones of a,F001,” if exhibited
conspicuously on the beach, might have supplied
some shreds of common-sense to others of the
same species.
THE DANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has been stated by those who are in close touch with
the case thac, some time ago, Archbishop Clarke received
a communication from a very high authority in the
Anglican Church in England, containing information
which had been supplied by two bishops, whose names
have been withheld, regarding rumors which Canon Nash
has declared himself anxious to trace and refute. Asked
whether he intended to make an appeal to the author of
the communication concerning the identity of the
informants, and subsequently to make an appeal for a
reversal of the decision which had been given against
him, Canon Nash said: “I cannot say that I have not
heard of the communication, but I cannot in anyway
criticise or discuss Archbishop Clarke’s correspondence.
As to an appeal, well, I am told there is no court of
appeal, so there would be nothing of thac sort. At all
events, I will have satisfied myself concerning the founda-
tion of the rumors. Even if there is no court of appeal,
there would remain a spirit of justice which underlies all
things. Well, I hope so.” —Daily paper.
Curate and bishop and priest and prig
Round and round in a sanctified jig.
Never so mad or manly or rash
To say what is wrong with preacher Nash.
Bishop and curate and priest and prig
In and out in a whispering jig ;
Each one saving his own soft soul
As they join hands round the subject pole.
Bishop and curate and priest so stout
Hither and thither and in and out;
Coat tails flutter and whiskers wave
(Every man has a soul to save !).
Bishops are sagging and curates fizz—
Nobody says what the trouble is.
On with the frolic ! Retreat! Advance !
Off once again in the Scandal Dance !
N.S.W.
KODAK.
IN THE CITY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/WANT to be out in the sun, on the hills, with
n bare skin baking brown,
Tor O ! I am sick of the dun dull air and the
stare and glare of the town.
I’d twiddle mg toes in the soft short grass, and I’d
stare on my back at the sky,
And I d listen all day to the tiny birds, that twit I—
flit —twit l go by.
Why should a man be an ant to build, with sand, these
sliming shows l
I’d rather be where the sun strikes free and the fresh
wind cleanly blows.
For the blue s so blue, and the green’s so green, and
the crystal air’s so soft.
And the day leans down like a mother to me, and the
little clouds laugh up aloft.
And now I know what I long forgot, that there is a
mystery
In the trees, and the breeze, and the tiny birds, and
the soft blue skies , and me.
And the voice I hear of the earth and the air, as a
deaf man hears a bell;
And I burst into song: “Be merry, be strong!
It is well, it is well, it is well !”
N.S.W.
H. M. GREEN.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
English Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines. Traction
Engines, High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
Engines, etc., etc.
Brunton's Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
everything. A. Ransome & Co. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers.
Steel Rails, Tramway Material, Locomotives, Cas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
ROBEYS
The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES: —U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; CERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4id. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
S. Australia had £500,000 of old 4 per cent
debt falling due in London on January Ist, and it lssuea
a cordial invitation to Oohen to renew the bill, offer ng
3* per cents, at £9B* ; that is to say, 8. Australia offeied
Cohen an I O U for £lOO and 30s. cash to renew at * per
cent, less interest. And Cohen did renew— to the extent
of a poor little £40,500. For the balance of £403,500 cash
had to be provided. The borrowing maniacs have an
idea, mostly, that no Government ever has to provide
cash; but Treasurer Peake, on behalf of S. Australia
could tell them now that that is a horrible mistake—-that
Cohen is liable to want his golden sovereigns when a
Government gives the I O U just as badly as when a
private person has floated the little loan.
As it happens, the discovery doesn’t worry S.
Aus. very much for the moment, because there has been
a metal and wool boom, and Adelaide is ‘ flush, and the
money was available locally. But the money yvon t be
available locally for all the trouble that is in sight.
Between now and January, 1909—m
Cohen will arrive with I O U’s for £4,534,i00 , the hist
£1 440,100 of the curse will want to roost on July Ist of
this year, and £3,094,600 will turn up in one ghastly
lump on the first day of next year. And, unfortunately,
instead of being able to borrow locally to pay off the
foreign Cohen that doesn’t look as though he will
renew, S. Australia will have some local trouble as well
to wrestle with, because £277,9000f Treasury bills (mostly
held in S. Aus.) will fall due during this year, and another
£1,173,550 will fall due next year. S. Australia, with the
biggest debt per head on earth, has always remarked,
when anvbodv pointed to its Treasury bills On yes,
when they fall due we’ll borrow on better terms in Lon-
don.” And when the big foreign debt w-as pointed to,
and the day of reckoning was hinted at, the same pitiiu
old Micawber replied, “ Oh, if London won’t renew, our
own people will take up the debt.” Now London doesn t
want to lend—it wants to be paid ; and at the moment
when it wants to be paid, and when the local people
ought to be trooping in with gold, they begin, instead to
troop in with the State’s I O U’s. So far, the luck of the
seasons has been on the Micawber State s side ; but the
luck of the seasons is a brittle thing for S. Aus. to lean on.
And vet there is nothing else that it can lean on to help
it over the next 12 months. Had bad seasons arrived
with the hard financial times in London, there must have
been a smash, or a horribly expensive bargain with Cohen
to avoid a smash—a worse bargain than even the Cape
(S’Africa) had to make the other day when it paid 4 per
cent, for a short loan, issued at 95.
• * * *
Six months of the States’ financial year have
now passed ; but for various reasons the figures so far
are no guide to what the results at the end of June are
likely to be. Hitherto, in the second half of the financial
ykar N. S. Wales has raked in large amounts in income
tax. The bulk of that disappears, no “personal exer-
tion” income under £lOOO being now taxable. Also,
most of the stamp duties came off on January 1. This last
will mean a loss of £130,000 a year—£so,ooo on cheques,
£50,000 on commercial receipts (the twopenny stamp
duty on receipts for £2 and over is abolished), and
£3O 000 on promissory notes and bills of exchange.
Not only will there be no duty from this source,
but large refunds of duty already paid will be
called for. Add to these losses of revenue the reduced
rail wav receipts on account of the poor wheat harvest,
and the chances are that the N. S. Wales Treasury won t
much longer talk of “ overflowing,” as it has been doing
lately. Of course there will be a surplus : anybody can
fake'a surplus when he doesn’t pay for necessaries out of
revenu but charges them up either to loan account or to
the Works Fund. The Wade and Waddell loan estimates
for the year run to £2,470,981, and part of this money is to
lie spent on roads, on renewing engines, and in patching
other things that ought to be paid for out of revenue
even under a borrowing regime. In the other States,
though the second half will not show as much change as
it probably will in N. S. Wales, things don’t look as cheer-
ful as they did. S. Australia has had an amazingly good
time during the metal boom, and is £L22,001 better off
than the Treasury estimated it would lie ; but the bottom
is out of the metal boom now, and railway revenue has
fallen with a thud. Queensland is likely to suffer in the
same way ; though general rains have brightened up the
prospects in that State in other ways. With these things
to be kept in mind, read the revenue figures for the half-
year :
State Revenues for Half-Year.
July-Dee., ’O6, July-Dee., ’O7,
NS. Wales .. £6,563,889 £7,191,078 Inc. £627,189
Victoria .. 3,755.555 4,124,903 Inc. 369,348
Queensland .. 2,060,134 2,242,662 Inc. 182,528
S. Australia .. 1,313,864 1,670,265 Inc. 356,401
Westralia .. 1,634,491 R 599,782 Dec. 34,709
Tasmania .. 451,649 506,279 Inc. 54,630
The large receipts from the Commonwealth
(Customs collection's) have made things easy for the
State Treasurers, who mostly show their gratitude by
snarling and snapping at the hand that is feeding them.
The object of the duties is to encourage home-production
and discourage imports, and as Australian factories
are established the duties will tail off. While
this is taking place, though, the State Treasurers
are in clover. N. S. Wales has received from the
Commonwealth £1,996,266 in the six months, or £510,682
more than it got in the corresponding part of 1906-7.
Yet, in spite of that enormous increase, Wade and
Waddell have the brazen front to put on the loan esti-
mates an item of £14,247 “ Customs duty on 40 imported
locomotives.” Though Customs duties have added
£510,682 to the State revenue, thfe State actually borrows
the money to pay for the little scrap of duty which it has
itself been called upon to pay. And the Government
that commits this outrage calls itself a “Reform”
Government!
In Victoria Bent juggles with the Treasury
figures also ; but there is a vast difference between the
Victorian juggle and the Carruthers-Wade-Waddell
juggle in N. S. Wales. Bent estimated that he would
have this financial year a surplus of £14,168. As, so far,
his revenue is £369,348 ahead of the previous year’s, and
as expenditure has been cut down fine (though the
figures are not published), the chances are that the actual
surplus, in a Bent way of speaking, will be £BOO,OOO or
thereabouts. His Commonwealth refunds have been
£226,452 ahead of the previous year’s record for the same
period. Bent knows as well as anybody that he can get
most glory out of a glittering surplus that he didn’t lead
people to expect. But he • can get something else as
well. Had he estimated a surplus of £BOO,OOO there would
have been instant ructions. Fat, denouncing it furiously,
would have cried aloud for a reduction of taxes. Bent
dodged the reduction of taxes, and will have anything up
to half-a-million available for the reduction of Victoria’s
debt. N. S. Wales, measuring up its revenue on a boom
basis, cut down taxation—mainly for general election
purposes —and the Government makes its dash for a sur-
plus and a halo through the Public Works Fund fake, and
the scandalous addition of two-and-half millions to the
debt during a brief period of probably unexampled
prosperity.
* * » *
When it was decided that the Maoriland Insur-
ance Department should go into the fire business, the
first large difficulty that it ran against was a boycott on
the part of all other offices doing business in Maoriland ;
no office would share a risk with it. _ The nght; thingfor
the office .to have done under the circumstancesji as
go ahead and take all the risk on its °wn account. A
mere private concern, with a capital of a few
or hundreds of thousands, or a petty million or so might
not be able to afford to do that ; but the State Fire Insur
ance Office is really Maoriland, and has the whoffi capital
of the Dominion behind it. Mot only is it the only Are
insurance office on earth with a capita of between
£300,000,000 and £400,000, 000-equal to; all the Brit sh
companies put together, and a lot over—but, if it. carr ‘6“
all the fire insurance of Maoriland itseif, it would be t
only fire insurance concern on earth with a capital that
was equal to far more than the whole amount of its risks.
In private-enterprise fire insurance it is quite easy to find
a company with less than £200,000 of capital and r
serves and with over £5,000,000 of insurances in Sydney
and suburbs alone-one of the best of N.S.W. companies
is in that position. But if the Maoriland State Depart-
ment took all the fire insurance that was going, a^rd
re-insured nothing', it would still have about k , 1 »
or £5,000,000 of assets for every £5,000,000 of insurance.
In other words, it would be 35 or 40 times stronger tha
even a very strong private office. A Swiss canton
is a much smaller affair than Maoriland ; yet several
Swiss cantons, which have their fire-insurance depart-
ments, don’t worry about “ treaty offices. In tact,
they not onlv take the whole of a risk, but they take all
the risks-the householder pays his insurance premium
to the canton just as he pays his ordinary rates and
taxes. Maoriland, however, suffered from weaknes. of
the spine, or the head, and when the other offices doing
business in the country wouldn’t share its risks, it sent its
manager off to London to make terms there—amid the
jeers of some of the local offices, which announced that
as they had used their influence on the other side, the
manager’s chances were Buckley’s.
As a matter of fact, Lloyd’s (which consists of
a number of gentlemen who sit in little boxes somewhere
in London, and insure anything and everything) jumped
at the chance of this new business, and agreed to take
an average of about three-fourths of the risks. A yearly
agreement was fixed up, and, instead of any wish to get
out of it, Lloyd’s likes it so well that the Government has
recently been asked whether it won’t let a little more or
the risks (and the profits) go. What the Government
replied if it has replied at all, hasn’t transpired ; but it
is to be hoped that Joseph said an emphatic no, even if
he had to flee for his life afterwards. A country
which professes Protection and the encouragement
of the home industry can’t consistently feed the foreigners
who sit in the little boxes in London any more than it can
feed other foreigners who work in factories. Even as it
is, the patriotic Maorilander has a right to have scruples
about placing his insurance with an office which is three-
fourths foreign, when he can get insurance from private
cos. which haven’t got “treaties” with any foreigners at
all; and if the Maoriland State office extends the interest
of the foreigners in its business, the scruples will get too
big for quite a lot of people to struggle with. It is time
the office became an insurance office—not a canvassing
agency for a crowd of little foreign offices.
N.S.W. Government Savings Bank Commis-
sioners lately issued a new regulation, calling upon all
depositors to pay Is. when opening an account and Is.
W'hen closing it. An annual charge of Is. is also made while
the account is open. The first day the regulation came
into force a small boy presented his book, with the
intention of withdrawing Is. which he had put in spine
time previously. The tellers explained that the Govern-
ment claimed the shilling for its trouble, and that he had
nothing in the bank. But the small boy’s misery
was too much for the bank, and a hurried council of
officials decided not to charge the fee that time.
If a doting mother should deposit £1 in the bank on the
birth of her first-born girl, as some do, to accumulate at
interest until baby’s wedding day, she will now be badly
left. The expectant bride, on going to the Government
Savings Bank in 21 years’ time to draw her wedding-
present, will, under the new system, find principal and
interest all swallowed up by the eating power of the
annual shilling charge. First year, there will be 6d.
interest and Is. deduction ; bringing down the balance to
19s 6d. After that, the account being below £l,
there will be no interest—only the shilling deduction.
At last, the account will get down to 6d., and
will close automatically ; but, as there is Is. charge when
an account closes, the gay depositor will presumably be
6d. in debt.
« • * *
It is obvious now that the yarn that the pig iron
industry did not require either a bounty or protection,
and the wild talk about exporting pig iron, was just
skite. The Hoskinses have come—long live the King !
and as they have got a good contract from N.S.W., not
onlv for pig iron but for all classes of material, it may be
fairly expected that Lithgow will turn out rails, bars,
angle and sheet iron, besides castings and galvanised
goods. As to labor requirements and the “primary
industries” that we are advised to foster, observe that
there have been about 60 men out Carcoar way engaged
in the primary industry—the mining of ore—while there
have been ten times as many at Lithgow, engaged in
smelting, casting, rolling, hammering, and working up
the grey pig ; for proof, see the Lithgow wages sheet.
The iron industry is even now not going to be established
without a struggle and without help. Requirements for
pig iron depend mostly on secondary manufacturing
industries, so the man who casts a vote for “a bounty on
pig iron in preference to protection ” is a political enigma.
The comparisons that follow these few remarks
are only of value in spots. They relate to the trustee
companies of Australasia ; and for some reason or other
trustee cos. have practically kept outside the eye of the
law, so that they give what information they please, and
present their accounts as they please. Some count cer-
tain commissions as profit, even though they are not
earned ; others don’t. The law even allows them to
borrow money and take deposits on the security of the
capital, which is supposed to be already pledged to the
estates of which they are trustees or executors. Some of
the published accounts are a farce ; and they scarcely
make a pretence of being serious. And yet this looseness
ought to be tolerated less from such concerns than
from almost any others in existence ; for these trustee
cos. have to be trusted not when you’re alive and can
act, but when you’re dead and can’t. Mostly the control
is in the hands of good old Conservatives who hate the
very thought of State regulation ; yet nothing is surer
than that if there is no State regulation there will some
day be a scandal, and Trust cos. will fall into the same
disgrace that they are in in America, where they have
drifted far away from their original purpose—just as
some Australasian trustee offices are drifting now.
Here, anyhow, though all the accounts are not
made up in the same way, are the figures as well as they
can be dug up out of the balance-sheets issued during
1907. The profits for the previous 12 months are added
for comparison :
Divi- To Re- Re-
Profits. dends. serves, serves.
1906. 1907. 1907. 1907. 1907.
£ £ £ £ £
Perpetual (Syd.) .. 7,333 7,683 2500 3908 47,503
T. E. &A. (Melb.).. 11,043 11,493 6300 5193 28,558
National (Melb.) .. 2,725 2,714 2700 14 23,998
Equity (Melb.) .. 5,541 5,615 2500 2115 21,578
Permanent (Syd.).. 5,171 5,118 2500 2618 19,313
Executors (Adel.).. 2,662 4,013 1075 2838 11,474
Ballarat .. .. 3,607 3,616 1650 1966 11,138
T. E. &A. (Dunedin) 2,881 1,697 1500 197 10,794
Westralian .. .. 1,966 2,786 1837 560 10,619
Sandhurst .. .. 4,156 3,092 2000 1092 9,749
Perpet. (Dunedin).. 1,817 1172 645 8,917
Perpet. (Hobart) .. 1,371 1,519 840 679 7,848
Queensland.. .. 2,171 3,060 2121 939 6,834
Tas. Trustees .. 1,860 1,541 840 701 6,416
Wellington (M.L.).. 10,913 4,779 3000 1779 3,933
Perpet. (Melb.) .. 2,250 2,392 1500 892 3,544
Union (Melb.) .. 3,874 4,931 3691 1240 3,234
If anvbody goes to the trouble of adding up the amount
paid in dividends and the amount added to reserves in
the Perpetual (Sydney), he will find the two won’t make
the profit alleged above. And that illustrates one of the
vagaries of these offices. The trustee co. gets a big slice
of its profits out of corpus commission—that is, commis-
Ss?S.rSs3«'si
The Perpetiml (Sydney) appears to
commission as profit, but it adasP doesn’t pass it
mmss
t£JS£J2S «he mi ”°S»I
sa is oooe
wrote off £389, and the S. Australian office £lOO. .
For the reasons mentioned abo-ve, the^n ext
comparison is also of less value than it should be .
Profits per cent, on Dividends per
Capital and Re- cent, of
serves. Capital.
r 1906 . 1907. 1905.1906.1907.
Executors (Adelaide) £ll 19 8 £lO 11 6 7 ?
Ballarat .. .. 16 4101419 2 10 11 ii
Equity (Melbourne) 14 11 2 1- 18 4 1()
Permanent (Sydney) 13 6 1 12 56 !0 g 8
Queensland.. •• ! , 0 M 10 17£
Westralian .. .. 0 y _,
Perpetual (Sydney) 10 11 0 , 8 10 10
Sandhurst .. 15 13 « 16 16 1° J, ?°,
Perpetual (Dunedin) 12 10 5 0511 14 i 4
T. E. and A. (Melb.) 10 5 0 10 2 f « I
Tas. Permanent .. 12 1-3 3 916 g
Wellington (M.L.).. 8 4 5 9 3 3
Perpetual (Hobart) 8 410 816 11 8
T. E. and A. (Dun- 1( r
edin) .. .. 15 0 1 849 15 15 15
Perpetual (Melb.) .. 7 2 7 76 6 4 4* 5
Union (Melbourne) 5 5 0 610 3 4*
National (Melb’urne) o 1 0 5 010 8 y
The Wellington (M.L.) office has capitalised £19,250 of re-
serves during the past year or two; hence the reduction
in the rate of dividend. # #
The M L. A. and Citizens’ Life-assurance amal-
gamation took effect as from January Ist; the
Citizens’ building now houses the head office of the joint
concern, and John J. Garvan, son of the founder of the
Citizens’, and for some years past its managing director,
becomes managing director of the amalgamated business.
There is at the back of many minds a vague uneasiness
because an old mutual office has been practically
swallowed by a proprietary co. (working, it is true,
under very elaborate safeguards so far as policy-
holders are concerned); yet, in this case at any
rate the results have shown that the mutual prin-
ciple isn’t enough of itself to produce good results.
The first paper that this part of The Bulletin struck in
1908 was an old policy in the M.L.A., taken out 30 years
ago The premiums amounted to £9 13s. a year, ana,
though bonuses had been allowed to accumulate the
total amount yielded by the policy was £3BO Is. If the
insurer had put his £9 13s. a year into the Savings Bank,
and had allowed it to go on accumulating at 4 percent,
compound interest, it would now be worth £498. Of
course he has been covered all these years ; but a lowing
for that, the return is wretchedly small. In 1906-7 the
M.L.A.’s expenses were only a shade under 25 per cent,
of premium income ; the new concern guarantees to do
the business at a cost gradually diminishing until 10 per
cent, is reached in 1913 ; and policy-holders also share in
the profits of the business. There may be laments, then,
on sentimental grounds, over the disappearance of a
mutual office ; but policy-holders or their executors,
when they come up for settlements, are not likely to
shed many bucketfuls of tears.
• * * •
The Australian Mortgage, Land, and
Finance Co. :
Written To Re- Re-
Dec Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1898 39,656 7£ p.c. = 39,000 656 303,649
1899 46,649 74 ~ ~ 39,000 1,649 311,298
1900 61.586 74 „ „ 39,000 22,586 333,884
1901 7£ „ „ 39,000 616 334,500
1902 78,963 Nil 255,537
1903 6 ’ Pl< sBB Nil 588 256,125
1904 12,135 24 p.c. = 13,000 255,260
1905 53,259 6 ~ 31,200 20,943 1,116 256,376
1906 100 354 7£ ~ ~ 39,000 12,394 48,960 305,336
1907 157,490 12£ „ „ 65,000 23,000 69,490 374,826
This co. has one of the best records, from the share-
holders’ point of view, among Australian pastoral
finance cos. Formed about 45 years ago, it had been pay-
ing ‘2O per cent, for years until drought, rabbit plague,
and low prices together wiped out many of the old
squatters, and sent Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. and other
old-established sheep financiers reeling. Yet the A. M.,L.,
and F. Co. w.is in 1896 still paying 10 per cent., and that
was the lowest to which it had got. Then things grew'
worse ; or, rather, perhaps the co. decided that all assets
would have to be written down to a new basis, so the
dividend was reduced, and for two years was dropped
altogether. The table at the head of this opens
at about the time of the reduction, and therefore
gives no hint of the long previous record of great
prosperity. There has been a sensational recovery
in the past five years. Good seasons and good prices
have come together, and instead of the loss of £78,963
made five vears ago, the co. shows a profit of over 30 per
cent, on its capital. But nobody who knows the con-
ditions expects things like that to last. On the other
hand, nobody knows from the published accounts what
amount of profit has been made and used to write
down assets internally. Certain amounts are shown
as written off in the list printed above ; but they
don’t refer to pastoral properties. For the past 12
months £13,000 is written off premises, and £lO,OOO is put
aside as “ a reserve on account of wool and produce de-
partment ” ; but, not being shown as a reserve, the latter
must be treated as written off. As to the writing-down
of properties only a bare hint can be got: —
1901. 1906. 1907.
Cash, public stocks, etc.,
less sundry creditors .. £48,095 £614,050 £574,248
Advances and properties .. 2,363,214 1,993,560 2,058,668
Sundry debtors and store
premises 469,355 241,126 300,911
The shrinkage of “advances and properties ” and the
growth of cash, etc., may be due to sales ; or it may be
due to profits having been used to write down values.
Besides the share capital of £520,000, there are £2,000,000
of debenture stock, nearly all 4 per cent. That is to say,
the shareholders’ capital has to take the risk not only of
its own investment, but of the investment of £2,000,000
besides ; and the business it is sunk in has large possi-
bilities in the way of disaster. Unless something very
emphatic has been done in the way of writing down, part
at least of the surplus profit of the past year or two of
unusual fatness can only be regarded as profit in a
tentative manner of speaking.
A. M., L., and F. shares and stocks are hardly
touched in Australia ; but there has been a fine profit in
them, even during the past four years, for somebody. In
1903 the new £3-paid shares were down to £1 12s. 6d. ;
during the past year they saw £5 2s. 6d. ; and the £5-paid
shares showed a movement to match. Apropos the risks
mentioned above, it has to be remembered that the
liability is very solid. They are all £25 shares, even those
on which only £3 has been paid.
* •* * *
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co. Ltd.
Full Interest Paid on
on Ist and account
2nd De- Interest Divi-
Gross bentures on 3rd De- dend
June, Profits. Paid. bentures. (5 p.c.) Deficit.
1898.. £96,063 £100,580 £6,733
1899.. 108,705 100,595 £1,377
Reserves.
1900.. 167,582 100,580 15,016 51,986
1901.. 100,859 100,594 265 51,986
1902.. 101,195 100,659 536 61,986
7101,050 100,658 3921
1903.. -| Suspense account (£51,213) j- 103,199
added to reserves. J
IQfu ) 122,775 100,657 16,901 | Q „
1904 ‘' 1 Written off, £4459 f ~ 103 > 957
j 121,952 100,658 16,901 ( ... OAO
1905 -'1 Written off, £3548 \ ~ 104 - 802
1906.. 177,104 100,965 17,160 £6423 157,358
I 180,416 98,953 17,2591
1907.. Suspense account (£100,000) V 6429 315,133
b added to reserves. J
After many years of fat dividends, the co. was struck
heavily during the early ’nineties, and in 1894ian adjust-
~ j up made This was followed in 1897 by a
Kb'." which W»l« ««
written OH the ‘h.re cp.Ul, „„
debenture capital, though tne < leuen u
given some preference rights in return, in law inese
rights were relinquished f >„ ince y 1
;STthe“tin» P h" ‘Sow comi *« -t «fcU
transfer £lOO,OOO out of this surplus to a capital r es* r ' | e
account ” The £lOO,OOO must therefore be now added to
the reserves, though it was probably made in previous
vears It would be interesting to know what the old de-
nture holders think of it all ««
chairman announced that the off was
gone “and no substantial part of it will ever be re
covered,” and no the
debenture-holders’ preference rights mentioned
ttrn e ar7shar U eho d l’de a rs was enormous. Said the chairman
ill that vear : “ The wreckage has been cleared away, the
£4O 000 a year which was payable to the holders of the trus-
tees’^preference shares before a dividend on the ordinary
shares could be met has been completely wiped out and
vou are in sight of a dividend. As things turn out, tne
ordinary shareholders made a fine bar S a '"’ d an I £ t ter
debenture-holders made a bad one. Had the latter
known that the properties were realising more than book
value, that scheme would probably never have been
carried through. Before it was carried through ordinary
shareholders were paying £4 per share to anybody who
would take on the liability ; at latest advices, the .ame
shares (10s. paid, £8 10s. liability) Were selling at about
7s. 6d. _
The share capital is now £135,352, but the de-
benture capital is £3,296,344, made up as follows
Total Held by
Amount. Co.
Ist D bentures (4 per cent.) .. £2,350,000
2nd Debentures(4 „ ) - 540, ,68 29,380
3rd Debentures(4£ „ ) •• 405,576 22,035
The 3rd debentures are payable from profitsandare
worth in London about £B5 It seems anomalous that 4J
per cent, debentures should be worth 15 per cent, under
par, while 10s. shares (which come in after these deben-
lures) should be worth 7s. 6d. ; but on account of the
small amount of the capital nowadays, future dividends
may reach a dizzy height. On the other hand this share
capital is a very little dog to have to look after such an
immense tail of debenture debt; and there is a rea*
risk not merely of extinction, but of having to find the
uncalled capital to fill up a hole which some future
pastoral disaster may leave. Certainly the balancesheet
gives no hint of such a possible disaster. The co s own
properties and stock have been reduced to T 178,507 , but
apart from advances on wool, the co. has lent £1,813,1 56,
and the trouble is that, as times get bad a co. of thisi sort
has to back up or forfeit, and it pretty often has to back
up and forfeit as well. But it is a gamble with large
possibilities the other way. Twenty years ago the
dividend (15 per cent.) ran to £55,000 ; and a splash of
that size with the reduced capital would now mean a
dividend of about 40 per cent.
. * * •
How general is the feeling of discontent among
Newcastle coal-miners can be judged by the fact that
even the deputies—the “r.on-commissioned officers
Pave now formed an association and want a 10 per cent,
rise. The miners started work on January 2on the basis
of a fourpence-per-ton increase in the hewing rate, the
utmost the owners would concede before the recent
strike ; but trouble at once arose over the pay of the men
who work behind the coal-cutting machines. They used
to get Is. Id. per ton for shooting and filling, and now
ask” for the extra fourpence that the miners get.
The owners offered an extra twopence, and when
that was declined they withdrew the offer altogether.
Every claim for a concession where machines are con-
cerned looms up in front of some of the owners as part of
a o-reat conspiracy to oust machines, and they reckon
they must nip that in the bud. This suspicion is really
the barrel of gunpowder which is liable to blow up if it
isn’t very carefully handled.
There is much the same general feeling of dis-
content and unrest among the Southern (Illawarra)
miners; but the leaders down that way are more
moderate—in their talk, anyway—and miners and
owners have got into the habit of fixing up their troubles
amona- themselves. But some of the owners are getting
restive ; and the manager of the Metropolitan Colliery has
sent this to the local association : —“ The long and appa-
rently unending list of petty and trivial demands is
becoming intolerable, and henceforth I absolutely refuse
to entertain or discuss any but reasonable and sensible
claims.” Of course, the manager is going to decide what
is reasonable and sensible. Voluntary conciliation and
arbitration always ends that way.
* * * *
Silver has shared in the metal slump to the
extent of about sevenpence per ounce, and. though it has
also shared in the partial recovery, it is still worth only
2s. per oz., as against last year’s average of nearly
2s. 74d. The effect of a silver slump is, of course, still
serious at Broken Hill ; but, as to most mines, not
nearly so serious nowadays as a slump in lead.
Take the South, for example. In that last half-
year for which accounts have been made up,
the concentrates contained 11,118 tons lead and
276,3220 z. silver. The average for lead that term
was £l9 17s. Id. ; for silver, fine, 2s. 9 3-16 d.
A fall of £1 per ton for lead would, of course, mean a loss
of £ll,llB in the half-year ; while a fall of one penny for
silver would mean a loss of £ll5l. Or a fall to £13175. Id.
for lead would lose the South £66,708, while a reduction
to about the present price for silver would lop off £9050.
Even assuming that the South is paid for all the silver in
its concentrates —which it isn’t—a fall to nothing at all
would have made a difference, on last half-year’s output,
of only £38,000; while, as shown above, a fall to
£l3 17s. Id. for lead makes a difference of £66,708.
Some Broken Hill mines are, however, affected
more by the silver slump than the South. The South’s
ore was worth 5 - 2 oz. silver and 15’2 per cent. lead. Of the
silver 52 - 2 per cent, was recovered and of the lead 72’4
per cent. ; so the recoverable values in the ore were 2 - 7 oz.
silver and 11 per cent, lead: wherefore a penny either
way for silver means a shade over 2Jd. per ton of ore, and
a £1 movement in the lead market means a shade under
2s. 2id. But at Block 10 it can be calculated from data
in the last report (to September 30) that the ore was
worth 13’70z. silver and 13‘9 per cent. lead. The
recovery was 36'2 per cent, of the silver and 67’6 per cent,
of the lead ; so the recoverable values in the ore were
4.90 z. silver and 9’4 per cent, of lead. In the case of
Block 10, therefore, a movement of a penny in the silver
market means a difference of just under sd. per ton of
ore, and a movement of £1 for lead means Is. 10J per ton
of ore. # #
The Broken Hill mines had an aggregate share
value of £10,725,000 at the end of 1906 ; at the end of 1907


. Aerial Tramways which have been erected
tor the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving- by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
o over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bieichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
tor the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
percent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
P nce 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Felton, Grim wade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane.
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A double 12in. suction dredge plant has just
been supplied to the Tekka Tin Mining Company of
Perak, Federated Malay States, by the Austral Otis
Engineering Company of South Melbourne. The plant
consists of two boilers, two 12in. gravel pumps, gravel
pump engine, air pump, surface condenser, feed pumps,
service pump, steam exhaust and other piping and
connections ; also Oregon barge and housing. The engine
is a marine type vertical coupled compound 350h.p.
The gravel pumps are both fixed on the same shaft, and
can be driven independently of each other. The boilers
are return tube dry back type. The barge is 60ft. x 46ft.
x sft., which gives ample room and sufficient floating
capacity.* ro
* » * • 1
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal of
London, under date 31st July, 1907, writes as follows:
“ So, to conclude, we are not writing without justification
when we say that the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is a thoroughly sound, go-ahead office, with a
great capacity for expansion.”*
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
conipany, and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen Street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * #
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * • •
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said:—“lt was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the>-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia. *
« * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
Engineers who have not had the opportunity of
seeing how the Canadian Pacific breaks the back of the
“Rocky Mountains” for their heavy freight trains, and
how the Central and South American railways surmount
the difficulties of the Central and Southern Andes, should
take the present opportunity of seeing the Shay-geared
Locomotive now in course of erection at Darling Island
by Messrs. Gibson, Battle and Co., Limited, 7 Bent Street,
for the Commonwealth Oil Corporation Limited, who
already have one of these engines negotiating, with
success, the difficult curves and grades of their develop-
ment work in the Wolgan Valley. For mining, forestry
work, or development in difficult country this engine
has no rival. It is made in all sizes from 10 to 150
tons.*
LOHMANN
<a COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables 4
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining:, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Material* of all kinds. [1
a ar
fooO° hi''lOOfi I '"th" e n S \vho were
1907 and nowfii^Vw*’ they Were worth 42500 in
£lOOO. ° ° dth b they are only wor th the old
* * * *
■' ust put mi] les underground in the
Uon k isn^t 11 n^taflpd 0 d ° T w e haulin - w °ere electric trac-
ton isn t installed. This, presumably, is so that the
other asses shall not feel lonely-the asses who were
£5 ISs U fid d a to h•’i he mark £ fc when shares were up at
fbouts now Whde "*°* They are 42 12s - 6d - or there-
* * . ,
Still another zinc-process co.—the De Bavav
has had t 0 £ et a concession from the people
sufferer n?- Ught ’ v, The *! roken Hill North is the
sufferer. The Baillieus, who in the beginning backed the
Zinc Corporation, now have their little bit on the De
Bavay process. That is one advantage the De Bavay Co
hasn’t ny " a ‘ V ~ lt haS a proces8 ’ The Zino Corporation
* * * *
“With a view to relieving shareholders as far
?v J*w S ! ! e a ? the P resent juncture,” White Leads
(JN.S.VV.) directors are going to make the calls “ as lio-ht
as possible. What is really worrying the directors" is
that, with the shares down to a half-penny or there-
abouts, a puff of wind would blow most of the share-
holders off the share register. And they might just as
well go off first as last. The White Leads has about a
, co 1 chance of becoming- a permanent mine, and the
only way to realise the one chance is to start out on a
vigorous plan of deep prospecting. Penny calls mean
penny methods, and the money will almost for a eertaintv
be wasted.
* * • *
C.S.A., of Cobar district (N.S.W.), which
general manager Blakemore, of Great Cobar, resolved
upon tackling two years ago as a long shot, has issued a
report that covers the whole period from December, 1905
to October 23, 1907. Profit and loss account shows that
ore sales have brought in £25,133 ; but, while the cost of
raising ore was £3140, freight and smelters’charges etc.
scooped £14,160 out of the proceeds, leaving £7833 to pay
management and general expenses. As the latter
totalled £3382, there is a balance of £4451, plus £l5B in-
terest earnings. The management costs look heavy •
directors’ fees and expenses alone ran to £1264. But the
figures cover nearly two years, and, besides, the direc-
tors in this case have done most of the managing, and the
O.S.A. isn’t exactly in Cobar’s back-yard.
Even the profit and loss account balance doesn’t
come up to the high expectations formed atone time
about the C.S.A., more especially as most of the stuff in
the zone of secondary enrichment has been scooped out
as fast as it has been found. But there has been very-
heavy expense which has not been charged to profit and
loss at all, including—Main shaft, £4904 ; mine develop-
ment, £5904; diamond drill boring, £1295 ; total,
£12,103. Whether this amount ought to be reckoned
as an asset, instead of being reckoned in with
working expenditure, depends upon the quantity
and value of the ore that has been made avail-
able. And as to that the reports offer nothing very
definite. Dr. Read, formerly of the Great Cobar Syndi-
cate, is chairman, and G. H. Blakemore is managing
director ; but neither commits himself to any statement
about mine prospects. Manager Winton, however, says
that the workings “indicate unmistakably the wide-
spread existence of copper ore beneath the present
level”; and he adds: “The future of the mine is, I
think, most hopeful indeed.” Everywhere, however, the
rich stuff has been stoped and sent away ; poorer stuff
couldn’t stand the charges. The settlement of the trouble
between this co. and its offshoot, the C.S.A. Block 10, out
of which this co. got £20,000 cash, has left it in a good
financial position ; on October 23 the cash balances
amounted to £14,152.
Manager Fox, though he couldn’t do anything
with the option he got over the Queen Bee (N.S.W.)
and it is probably a good thing for himself or his friends
that he couldn’t, at the price—still sticks to his good
opinion of the property, and laughed at the fears of
friends who said ne would batter his reputation if he tried
to make it pay under present conditions. So far, he has
more than made ends meet; there has been about £lO per
ton of copper, after paying all costs of mining, develop-
ment, and realisation. Nearly everything depends upon
prospecting and development costs, though. There is a
lot of that work ahead ; and, to add to the trouble, firewood
supplies for the reverbs are getting no cheaper ; so Fox
has got his work cutout.
* * * *
Wyalong (N.S.W.) is one of the few fields that
begin 1908 with a smile ; the year promises to furnish
record yields of gold from the True Blue 1 and Golden
Fleece. For last month the Fleece crushed 185 tons for
2400 z. gold. The Homeward Bound has also started well
by treating 70 tons of ore, comprising all grades, at
Cockle Creek for 2s2oz. The reef averages from 6in. to
9in. wide and runs from ljoz. to 17oz. gold to the ton. The
Operator lease is still hung up waiting for final considera-
tion by the Minister. It is now three months since the
applications were lodged.
* * * *
Though it already had a share capital of over
£725,000 to earn profits for, the Commonwealth Oil
Corporation has now issued £150,000 of debentures.
There is a pot of money behind the co. in England, and
every report submitted to it has been one long screech,
with millions mentioned as though they were something
that were rather in the way of the engineers than other-
wise. The developments at Wolgan have unquestionably
been good ; but The Bulletin still doubts whether the
poor business can stand such a splash of capital expendi-
ture.
* * * .*
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) shareholders have
had another shock. A few months ago the monthly
output dropped from £50,000 to £30,000 ; now it is to be
lowered to £16,000. In their last annual report the
general managers stated that an output of £30,000 could
be maintained for at least two years and possibly much
longer, but the intrusion recently met with in the
“ sweetening ” section of the ore pipe has completely up-
set their calculations. Some years ago, what is known
as the main inclined winze was put up from No. 5 level in
the Oroya north block, and this disclosed very high
values in the hanging wall of the shoot right up to the
Associated Northern boundary. Later on, some vertical
rises were put through this block of ore to facilitate the
estimation of ore reserves. Notwithstanding the fre-
quency of these rises and the invariable location of this
richer hanging-wall ore, stoping has now shown that at a
point east of the main inclined rise, and close to the
Associated Northern boundary, intrusive country occurs
between the hanging wall proper and the ore. * It was
hoped at first that this intrusion had only entered the
ore in the form of a wedge and split it in two, but that
theory has since been exploded. As the Oroya south
block is also a disappointment in depth, and as recent
development has failed to locate any new payable ore
bodies in the Brown Hill section of the leases, the out-
look is getting to look a bit blue.
* * * *
Now estimated that there are 650,000 tons of
ore blocked out in the Kalgurli (W.A.), of a recoverable
value of 565. per ton. This is Is. less than the grade now
being treated, and 4s. below last year’s estimate, when
the tonnage was the same. Seeing that these reserves
represent a net profit in sight of nearly £9 per share, it is
remarkable that the present market value of the stock is
below that figure. There must be an explanation. The
position certainly reflects on the estimates.
* * • *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is now being raked fore
and aft in shallow ground by tributors, who hope to
produce about £lOOO worth of gold per month among
them for some time to come. The veins are numerous
and occasionally rich, but they are too small and too
scattered for a co. to bother about. In depth the
property is worthless.
* » • *
Central Boulder (W.A.) is being systematically
prospected at depth by crosscuts from the adjoining
Oroya south block. Later on, it is intended to mine ore
from the upper workings, raise it through the Oroya
shaft, and treat it at the Brown Hill mill. As mentioned
some time back, the Central Boulder is being worked by
the Oroya-Brown Hill Co., which shares profits with the
co. owning the lease, after 7£ per cent, is paid to the
Associated. The latter gets a cut for prospecting already
done and for draining.
* ■* >* *
It is time the Great Ophir (W.A.) did some-
thing. So far, it has had a chequered career, and the
public is gradually coming to see that there is a fearful
difference between what the management says it should
much" m? tUally does. Some weeks back the
l?shW a d " U 1 • St ? rted > and the lon P delay in pub-
iisning: a return is mighoy suspicious.
*. * »
bei^^;!!, 00 to ?w, of sands are now
Deing- treated monthly at the Bellevue (VV.A ) Some 500
t^te°d f orl^ rateS a /« BaVed; 300 5 the*™
asfde aJThl 300 ’•. and I the ‘•emamino- 200 tons are put
ff' d f’, a ® the capacity of the roaster is limited. Indica-
are N °‘ l level in the south end of this mine
?ookln£ than the C °V ntry 18 softer and much better
looking than that met a v t the No. 4 level where the reef
re C n h a e „ d a a wf,;r, Very tV iC - S ° the"BelWue hal
thwe isnos/lnn Ure ’ butnow things may alter, though
mere is no reason to expect that they will.
Since the mill started last July the Orova-
abou k t £18 !, -00 W f' A h h t S - reCOVered £so .°°C worth of gold,
about £lB,ooo of which is profit. The monthlv surplus
when the IUtTl Ut T' bUt in a few '»o n ths from now!
Sl f h » etB t 0 work on the slimes, the
amount should be increased to £5OOO, or over. The ore
offeis no difficulties in the way of treatment, but bad
ground in places makes the cost of mining heavy. Still
£l t nl! X ton ld h Ure fK n °, t ex P ected to average more than
£1 p-r ton when the pliant is brought into full operation.
future it is intended to work the Fingall
l h b /r^ S , ° f , an > nternal iodine shaft, to be sunk
w ab u Ut 1000 f - north of the Present
main shaft. Work by the new shaft should be F much
more economical than the present way of opening up the
ore, by means of a long drive through unpayable ore.
E f?° r^ ern Mines Ltd. (W.A.) reports that it is
ere ™ ak /u ]^" d Vi* eel b and a bit over on the treatment of
hefn^nnrV' t'■ 6d ' Ev e ry P en ny earned is, however,
being put back into development or spent in remodelling
the equipment so as to put the property in the position
carmug profits from even lower grade ore. A tramway
-n "? V 8 °° nnects the various leases with the central
mill at Lawlers; the largest source of ore supply—the
Waroonga lease—is seven miles distant.
• * * *
V ivien (W.A.) is now making a profit of about
£2OO a month after paying for development work ; but as
oo°mo n u Xpen ? es have to come off this, and as there are
shares in the co., the amount is a trifle from a
dividend standpoint. The reef at No. 4 level was hardly
payable, so the shaft is being sunk to 600 ft. to see what
it is like there. Success at depth is problematical.
* * * »
Menzies (W.A.) is having a hard struggle to
keep moving Every now and then the local paper lends
a helping hand by announcing that such and such a mine
is about to be re-opened and worked on an extensive
scale, but somehow the eggs don’t hatch. A lot of gold
yet remains to be dug out of this district, but the digging
had best be left to working parties, as the values are too
erratic for companies to do any good with.
•** . 0
Merton’s Reward (W.A.) had better give it up.
Result of operations for the year ending June 30th last
7- ao io® gelling of the debit balance from £18,490 to
£43,558. Gold valued at £15,904 was recovered, but it
cost about £40,000 to get, and there looks to be nothing'
but further heavy losses ahead. Truly, Merton, the ex-
\\4t y drapery assistant > kn ew when to get in out of the
* * * *
Callion Co. (W.A.) is, as expected, removing its
office to Kalgoorlie ; but the stock is very sick in even the
Kalgoorlie market.
* • * *
The dredging plants saved the look of Castle-
maine (Vic.) returns for 1907. In quartz-mining there
was hardly a kick left. Spring Gully, the biggest pro-
ducer, crushed 6302 tons, but only got out 13380z.,and
there wasn’t a dividend in that. Francis Ormond just
kept moving on sdwt. stuff—443l tons for 13040 z. The
only two divs. came from the Golden Hill and Spring
Gully Junction, which were on rather better stone and
paid £2lOO between them. Of the 29 dredging claims
eight paid dividends—little ones, it is true ; but the out-
lay is small. And, besides, Castlemaine has a linger in
numerous profitable dredges outside its own district.
* * * *
Castlemaine’s dredges, in spite of their 24,1580 z.
won 1500 oz. less last year than in 1906 ; but the divs’
(£5517) were about £l4OO better. Still, the industry was
probably at the top in 1907. Sludge legislation has added
to costs, and it doesn’t take much addition to make all
the difference between profit and loss where a dredge is
concerned. So far over 120,0000 z. has been won at Cas-
tlemaine since this new system of gold-winning was
introduced.
* • * «
A tangle has to be unravelled over Ballarat
mining returns. Local correspondents won’t differenti-
ate between Ballarat proper and Ballarat district. But
lumping up Ballarat, Creswick, Berringa, Linton, Dayles-
ford, and a score of other places within 20 miles of Ballarat
divs. total £77,125 for 1907, against £72,864 for 1906. Of
the total, Ajax, of Daylesford, put up a respectable
£25,000. Jubilee, of Scarsdale, came second with £l6 200
and Victoria United was third, with £lO,OOO. In all 12’cos!
toed the dividend mark, against 21 in 1906. What Bal-
larat wants is the pluck to publish a balance-sheet like
Bendigo. It doesn’t do it because results all round are
so shocking.
* * * *
Creswick (Vic.), once the home of glittering suc-
cesses, hasn’t at present one mine off the call list, and
only one—Spring Hill Leads—really on the gold. Berry
Extended, after having turned out 100,7250 z., worth
£417,528, and paid £69,000 in divs., has to show a debit
balance of £3102 at the end of the half-year. What is
worse is that there isn’t any early prospedt of any show
getting off calls, unless the Spring Hill tribute turns out
a “ bonzer.”
* * * *
Duke of Wellington, Meredith (Vic.), is being
accused of tricks. There was a rumpus, the other day,
over the form of the accounts, but that was a small
matter for any Duke to worry about. When, however,
one director told that a yield wasn’t really what it was
reported to be, the public woke up and exclaimed,
“ What ho ! ” The report said 250 tons had given 1650 z.,
of which 350 z. came from the plates. Roberts, a director,
now alleges that a letter to the Board reported that 405
tons gave 3020 z., of which 131 oz. came from the plates.
That much having come out, something, of course, must
be done. Who was responsible for the first report?
Wellington must lie under a cloud till the whole matter
is cleared up.
• * * *
Williams’ Fancy, Berringa (Vic), is a mine that
J. Bull turned down, to the discomfiture of the Rippen-
Wallv-Smith crowd. It has yot on the dividend list again,
but has only done it by a scramble. Last six months’
record is 12,349 tons for 2762J0z., the average being 4dwt.
llgr. per ton. As total expenses amounted to £9669,
about £l5OO was left on the right side. With this to help
the co. on its way, it might have been thought that a
careworn directorate would have made sure of fees for six
months to come. Not they ! J. Bull being off, a div.
must be on. This haste might have been justified had
the mine manager written at all specifically about the
outlook. All he can do is to “ wish for a prosperous
year.” Wishes don’t make divs., though, otherwise
Crmsus wouldn’t be in it with Ballarat mine directors.
* * * *
Though Virginia topped the Bendigo gold and
div. record for 1907, it ought to have done even better.
New Moon is more progressive, and should be first in
1908 instead of second ; while, if South New Moon follows
the New Moon’s departure, it will come close up to Vir-
ginia, instead of being a poor third.
**-*•*
Derby United, Maldon (Vic.), works hard, but
doesn’t get much gold. A while ago the co. hit on to a
flat make of stone containing about 1400 tons. This has
been punched out at a profit of 7s. 6d. per ton ; but that
couldn’t pay for all charges, development, etc. So,
despite calls, the co.’s overdraft has mounted to £1872.
The co. now has to go ahead with more development, with-
out the aid of anything save shareholders’ cash and
what patience they have left. The Beehive line is now
being tested. It would be a God-send to the field if
the Derby United could bump out a few decent yields
to buttress an old reputation, which of recent years has
been sadly going to pieces.
* * m m
Mt. Lyell’s New Year’s favor to the crowd that
bought in at between 50s. and 60s. is bornite—the real
stingo—picked up in the bore at 1000 ft. So far a good
width has been passed through. It isn’t wise to take
the evidence of bores as conclusive proof of the extent
of a formation ; still the deduction is that the ore
developed at 850 ft. has lived down. If the two big
shoots hold to size and richness, Lyell should have
from two to three years’ reserve added to its store of
copp ! r at , £6 °- this addition is badly wanted
to justify present market value of shares.
No^mW° r ™ n Cn f ef i an °ther half-year on
3a Principal figures were :-Receipts.
which £'24 loTn ’/ 3^’ 208 ; proflt > £14 °.968. out of
wmch £24,195 comes for depreciation, leaving £116,773
net. One dividend of £62,500 (Is. 3d. per share 1 was
paid ; another of the same size fell due last week. )
The shocking record of Gympie (Q.)
ions Sfco " e * t° ns - Gold, oz. Dividends. Calls,
ion? " 486 > 642 176,369 £318,858 £B6 747
1905 " 153,516 239,904 70,957
X™ •• 213,454 138,403 195,875 65 727
1907 " 130 > 050 177,439 50,945
1907 .. 161,800 76,000 65,152 49,000
nr fl f U l es are as c !° se as they can be got for a week
or two. And worse still, of those few mines that are
C vmn- goo< i’- by far the most profitable, the Scottish
® y “ P ' a ’ is sending practically all its dividends out of the
antn lJu 6 Ta br , lghfc s P ot > n the outlook is the satis-
factory result of development work at the Two Mile ; and
Sion on he field had t 0 b 6 belted into tacklin £ that exten-
* * » ,
Great Fitzroy (Central Queensland) is again
fhfrd Pr e P arat ‘ons for smelting. This is about the
third sprint in that direction, and the public, or as much
of it as takes an interest in the concern, is wondering
what causes the spasms. With Queensland politics in a
bit of a tangle, the Fitzroy branch line is not likely to be an
accomplished fact for another year, even if the Philo
par ‘y 18 Prepared to do as much as Kidston’s
crowd , and without the rail connection the Great
fitzroy looks a hopeless proposition unless copper
begins to balloon again. And it is not likely
to do that for a while. James, the man who
so expeditiously summed up the Great Fitzroy for
Bewick Morelng and Co., has vacated the management in
favor of Lovell, late of 8., M. and Co.’s Westralian staff.
James did rattling good work, and there does not seem
much for Lovell to do now but watch his metallurgist
get the copper out. It will be taken out in the form
of matte. 8., M. & Co.’s men may see a profit in this, but
there are many others who know the game and yet can’t
see a profit. Perhaps the Great Fitzroy has a rich
pocket which will stand matte production and team
transport. If it has it seems a pity to waste that pocket
at this juncture. y
* * * *
From £219,650 in 1905 Charters Towers’ divi-
dends slackened off to £176,602 in 1906, and got down to
ln , 190 t 7 - u of the £120,090, Mills’ United paid
£/0,000 , and of the 50 or more mines, and holes which
have been mistaken for mines, only seven others contri-
buted anything at all.
* * * •»
Brilliant and St. George, Charters Towers, holds
100 acres on the Identity reef, at Millchester, not far
from the co. s battery. Millchester has been patchy, but
Towers mining men have pluck, and some of them
favored the idea that the large formations known to exist
might carry payable mineral stone in the deep ground.
The Brilliant and St. George has, therefore, spent a few
thousands in sinking the Identity shaft, and, notwith-
standing the prejudice that attaches to patchy and
erratic old mines, there was no show so handy to the
co.’s mill that could offer a better chance. A large for-
mation in the Identity shaft was cut last month at 930 ft.,
but the recent development is from a crosscut, started
at the 847 ft. level, and driven 214 ft. before mineral stone
was cut. There is now about 2ft. of stone worth over an
ounce to the ton for the full width of the crosscut. The
co. is in 144,000 shares, and had a good Christmas clean
up, though, as plates are cleaned and corners scraped out
at Christmas, returns at that Lime are generally no safe
guide.
• • * *
Carrington United, near Charters Towers (Q.),
has a sulphide lode at the deepest level, 560 ft. Stone from
the upper levels carries free gold ; lately 300 tons of what
are confusedly called “ seconds ” returned £2Ol worth of
gold and 45 tons of concentrates. The returns have been
too small to pay expenses, so a call was made last month.
A share-shuffle was made last year ; there are now 66,500
paids, 132,900 contributing, with 40,600 in reserve. A pile
of concentrates and picked ore awaits smelting, so when
the reverbs (which have given some trouble) get a fair run
the co. should soon be in a strong position. The ore is
silieious, so concentration will have to be persevered
with. The recovery is, however, poor, and the tailings so
rich that they are called “ residues.” Near by Carrington
Lion No. 1 and 2 East illustrates how much copper and
gold can be lost by battery treatment. Some time since
285 tons crushed for £755 worth of gold and 60 tons of
concentrates, averaging £5 ss. for gold and 17 per cent,
copper. But the 225 tons of tailings contained Bdwt. of
gold and 5J per cent, copper to the ton. There are
25,000 paids and 60,000 contributing shares in this show.
Mt. Cannindah (Q.), another of the Gibb mines
—Dr. Logan Jack wrote a hifalutin report about it a
while ago—has shut down, and there is no telling when it
will start again.
* * * *
Dead, after a long struggle and a reconstruction
or two, and one dividend in 1904, the Woodlark Island
Co.—a mostly-Sydney concern which was going to get
rich out of a New Guinea gold show. The co. didn’t know
much about mining, and had the “ bad luck ” that gener-
ally happens to that sort of co. The Kulamadau Co.,
which hangs out its sign at Charters Towers and does
know something about the game, absorbs the other co.,
and increases its share register from 100,000 to 125,000
shares by issuing 25,000 paid-ups. The Charters Towers
co. had an awkward slice of ground to work, so the
shuffle is the best thing for both parties.
♦ * ir f
“ Shareholder ” : Re Peak Downs. The answer
(B. 2/l/’08) to my letter is disingenuous. I said that
when the option expired, Mt. Morgan’s assays and report
were not completed. I added that the assays (as far as
they went) confirmed Mr. Rand’s report (1899). Where is
the contradiction ? As it is apparently impossible to get
at the official result of Mt. Morgan’s assays, Mr. Rand,
who inspires general confidence, has been sent to the
mine to report to the shareholders. The local men’s
report would not carry the same weight, and, anyhow, it
is the wish of the shareholders that Mr. Rand should
report.
* * * ft
Queensland is still crying out that it wants a
new goldfield. Mt. Morgan is, perhaps wrongly, regarded
as a copper proposition ; Gympie frowns at itself; the
Towers is beginning to think that it will soon have to
hold an inquest on the industry ; and neither Croydon
nor Coen is doing much good. Perhaps those fields
want exploiting by someone who is bursting with
both brainsand money—a rare combination in Queensland.
The old Woolgar, Gilbert, and Etheridge may perhaps be
able to survive a revival, so to speak. Latest rush is to
the Oaks, near the Einasleigh. Reported that about 130 oz.
alluvial were obtained in a few days. This was quite
good enough for some excitement in N.Q. All hands and
the cook immediately left the Einasleigh copper mines and
proceeded to chase the gold, and at time of writing men
are quitting Irvinebank and other centres for the rush.
Geologist Cameron has had a look at the ground, and
although there is no denying the existence of the metal,
there is not sufficient work done to enable anyone to say
what the probabilities are. The auriferous possibilities
of many of the gullies in these parts have long been
recognised, and hatters find no difficulty in keeping going.
* * * •
The old fool can still be the giddiest fool when
he lets himself go. There isn’t among big Australian
mining concerns anything else quite so respectable as the
ancient Wallaroo and Moonta—unless it be Mount
Morgan—and there were no giddier capers cut in the
share market last year than Wallaroo and Moonta stock
was responsible for. At the top shares stood at £6 9s.—
that was well on in the year, when a large division of
bonus shares was talked about. The quotation gave the
property an alleged value of £1,037,000. But the copper
market slumped, and the directors (who had heavy metal
stocks in hand) began to wonder how much they had
overvalued them, and the co. got into legal trouble, and
the bonus shares evaporated, and down plunked shares
to 295. 6d., or £236,000.
Though Pure Merino hasn’t got quite such
chcerfu l wool-market prospects as he had a while ago
a w e r r ?°i, ld ,-, sra!n of co,nfort comes his wav-the
a. m.,n &I> Co. now reduces its selling commission from
4 per cent, to 2 per cent, (it was 3 per cent, down to a
few years ago), and presumably the others will follow
suit. In this matter of wool-selling Sydney has had a
rivalry which the other centres haven’t got. That rivalry
was due in the first place to the Co-operative Co., though
nowadays the feeling has become almost too bitter to be
called mere rivalry.
* * * *
~ -pledger : The total value of the tin yield in
the RmmavilledistrictCN.S.W.) for the past year is esti-
',. at about £.40,000 ; and something solid has to be
added for bismuth and wolfram. Emmaville, by the wav
takes its name from the female side of the house of
noftus—the erstwhile poultry-keeping Governor of
* * * *
There is money in tin-smelting. Lee Chin Ho,
y - ars has been a Malayan smelter, lately
turned his business over to the Eastern Smelting: Co., of
* him 150 ? 000 dollars for his plant and
another 150,000 dollars for his goodwill.


YOU CAN CLIMB
TO THE*TOP!
where there'* always 'plenty
of room,' by equipping
yourself with our courses ol
POSTAL Instruction
in Shorthand, Bookkeeping,
Penmanship, Correspondence,
Commercial Arithmetic, etc.
Our teaching is thorough, no
stereotyped methods; every-
thing made simple and clear.
Direct personal instruction
from the most capablcj
Send lor "Home Study.
STOTT & HOARDS
BUSINESS COLLEGE
MOOPE ST SVDNEVj
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is the best
liniment for cuts, sprains, and bruises. It will
heal the parts in one-third the time any other
treatment would require.*
This is the time of year when everybody is
feeling' either “run down” or “knocked up’’—two
apparently diametrically opposite terms that in reality
mean the same thing to everybody who isn’t too blind to
recognise delightful English figures of speech. Most
people seem inclined to exist upon nothing stronger than
ices and cool drinks—which aren’t good for them, and
make them feel the weather more. A grand tip for
enabling one to meet the enervating days better is the
cold bath on rising, that not nearly enough people make
a habit of. To those whose constitutions can stand it, the
c®ld bath is a splendid tonic ; the rest should have it
tepid ; but always “Scrubb’s” should be a Strong com-
posite feature.*
The soothing and healing properties of
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm make it a favorite
remedy for cuts, bruises, burns, and scalds. First
application gives relief.*
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“J. Pannikin”: White Cliffs reports the
finding of the usual unknown man, dead of thirst.
Poor devil! How many more like him have
perished on the heartbreak tracks travelled by
Sin bad and Co. in the back country? Lots of
men tackle the Far Out trails, haying very little
knowledge of the sand and saltbush, they trust
to luck and the proverbial generosity of the
Westerners. It’s a wonder that the sunset Cin-
derella does not murder more of them as a protest
against insufficient preparation and precaution
for dangerous journeys during the days when the
climate is a full-flavored breath straight from the
burnt frying-pan of Hell. “ Perished from
thirst’’—those three truly terrible words contain
the story of agonies indescribable. I would not
wish such a fearful fate to befall even Wun Hi.
RASH INTERFERENCE.
MRS. LEVI: “Poor man, he don't know who he
ith or vat he ith. He'th completely loth hith
memory. Vot can re do for him?"
MR. LEVI: “ Leave him alone, Rachel, leave him
alone. I owe him a kvid."
At Armidale, New England (N.S.W.), the
other day, as the train slowed down, the door of a
second-class compartment opened, and three swags
were dumped on to the platform. The owners,
three young women, stepped forth, shouldered
Matilda, or Marmaduke, or whatever the
proper name is in such a case, and walked off
quite unconcerned at the astonished looks and
comments of the spectators.
Mary Gilmore writes of birds and insects,
apropos the grasshopper plague
The Danysz people suggest that the grasshopper legion
is here because rabbit-poisoning has thinned out the
birds. The truth is that, unless a food be an accustomed
one, birds take a while to eat of it, unless famine-driven.
The bird is not famine-driven to eat grasshoppers, for tne
famine does not occur till the hopper is leaving. Me tne
eggs, have you ever watched a Mrs. Grasshopper come ou
of the hole in which she has laid and then dug downfor
the eggs? In ordinary clay (and they don t laj in sand)
a bird would need a beak like a crowbar fco Jf ,
For about a week, in Paraguay, we rattled cans a
blew trumpets in shifts, made fires, made trenches, did
everything we could to move on the locusts(which a'® only
hoppers in bulk) to save our cane and maize °n Cosine
colony, and though I myself spent several hours a day
out, I can confidently assert I never once saw a bird feed
on the insects. And talking it over afterwards, we came
to the conclusion the bird was a rank failure as a help
against locusts. Flocks of tan age r s hung round he
cows for ticks; they never looked at the lo «"®ts.
Other flock birds, of half-a-dozen different varie-
ties, which would follow a ploughman ™ dozens
or pursue the turning up of the B weet Potato
vines, or the digging of the mam (peanut), retted in
disgust to the trees while the locust abode—the v<sry
same birds that followed the travelling ants in fl °cks in
order to snap up the unconsidered beetle, motn,
tarantula, lizard, scorpion, etc., overlooked by the stream
ot To digress: We often knew the travelling ants were
coming bv hearing the chatter of the birds on either side ot
them. It wasamostinterestingexpenence. Firstone would
hear the sharp note of the bird (peculiar to the occasion
it was), then a rattle like rain on dry grass. This v.as the
hopping, jumping, flying, running insect w orld. ,®
small hail they advanced, a river of black behind them,
the birds flanking and following. Nothing was left
behind but a wake of thigh bones and fragments of wing
cases. As an eater the ant is unsurpassable. He devoured
even the locust. Only once they passed through my
house. It was night, and I was awakened by the sound
of hail, a hail of insects—spiders, lizards, everything in
that line that Paraguay produced. Fortunately the ants
went through bv way of the walls and roof (not the floor
or I would have had to run, husband, baby, and all), i
have known people have to leave their beds and stand in
the ashes, or in dishes of water, every night for a week.
They say that, when the ants invade a bed before you can
get out, if you can lie perfectly still and let them swarm
all over you, you will escape unbitten. It is possible.
The trouble usually begins when they get into the ears
and nostrils. Being stuck, they begin to bite.
Let me ask: Do people in comparatively birdless
countries suffer more from grasshoppers, etc., than in
countries like Paraguay, where there are 10 birds for
every one in Australia? As far as my own observation
goes, I think Australia singularly free. But I am only
one. (Last year the Paraguayan locust did damage to the
extent of over 81,000,000, so a friend wrote me. Phe pest
is almost annual—in one part or another. Also Paraguay
is in the direct line of flight north or south of the south-
western bird world, and has such a multiplicity of insect
pests that birds would go that way for choice had they
any ideas on the subject of food.) .......
As a matter of fact, Australia is (or was) so destitute of
insect life (I suppose because producing so few fruits and
edible seeds) that it never had so many birds as now
(water birds excepted); and the most multitudinous of
these are the imported—sparrows, starlings, etc., which
came after fruits were grown. They were brought, of
course, to eat insects, but multiplied, because fruit (and
insects as a result) also multiplied.
★ * * *
“S. Remo ” : Have studied the jackass
pretty closely, and “ E.J.P.” is quite correct in
stating (B. 28/11/’O7)
that he roosts in num-
bers on one limb. The
push seems to be under
the control of a chair-
man or bandmaster. He
is generally a big bird,
and always occupies the
central position. He
leads the choruses, and
when the orchestra gets
out of tune he raps the
limb sharply with his
beak, and everybody
stops. He blackguards
the others something
shocking. We studied
him near Emerald (Q.),
and though we never
learned Jack’s language
we came, in time, to get
the hang of things.
Jack is a great gossip,
and loves to tell or hear
a good yarn. The late
comer is always ques-
tioned, and at once
gives all the latest
news. When he arrives
the business in hand is
suspended (usually from
the limb). If he tells a
good yarn the guffawing
is loud and general. On
rare occasions the leader
will push up and make
room for the speaker
alongside himself. This
seems to be a mark of
pecial favors. Some-
times the chairman will
deliver a lecture—you
can tell that by the nod-
ding of his audience.
I heard him lecture
once on Ereetrade
(George Reid had just
secured the N.S.W.
Premiership). But that
meeting broke up in dis-
order, and eventually
the police had to clear the hall. That was the
only time I knew the chairman to lose control
of the audience. Also that was how the fiscal
issue came to be sunk.
» • * *
Dear B.—Concerning huge shearing
cheques, you know very well there’s another
side to the chromo-lithograph. Two instances :
King’s Plains, 16 shearers ; hand ; five weeks—not
a single man has a five-pound note earned. Glen-
don (New England), a next-door-neighbor merino-
pasture, 14 shearers ; machine; highest cheque,
less tucker, £9 7s. 4d. ; lowest cheque, £3 2s.
This for five solid weeks’graft also. No, despite
the cheques occasionally amassed by big gun fleece
cutting experts, the rank-and-file is even yet
miserably paid. Wet weather and the 100 per
diem limit play Old Harry with even fair results.
P.S.—Don’t you think, Mr. 8., that the afore-
remarked limit to a man’s earning capacity is
against the meaning of Justice O’Connor’s award ?
—T.H.
* * * *
“ Sr ” : Remarked this catachresis by the
Church City nipper. Heard one dispute—“ M’
oath, Clem Hill’s crook, ain’t’e? I’ll bet yer a
hundred pounds he’s better’n Trumper.” Pound
out that the Horse Tram youth regularly uses
“crook” to signify “ boshter,” “bonzorina,”
“blitherer,” or “snorter.” “Starve the rats”
and “ snake’s head ” are two more poetical phrases
that the Adelaide lad is godfather of.
WHERE THE DANGER CAME IN.
JERRY : “ That's right, Bill, yer safe's long as
yer don't get ahead of him."
“ IT- Diamond” discusses the grasshopper,
which this season has been a worse pest in central
N. S. Wales than the rabbit: —
In the island of Cyprus agriculture was once rendered
almost impossible by plagues of grasshoppers. It was,
however, found that while in the wingless stage they are
unable to climb up or down a smooth surface, so the
following method was adopted. When the pest was
detected, a canvas screen, four to five feet high, was
erected in the line of advance ; and along the screen pits
were dug. When the insects found that they could not
get any further ahead, they commenced to travel along
the screen until the pits were reached. Later on, the
pits were covered in with earth, and the method kept going
till the pest had been stamped out. This system has proved
so successful that the pest is almost eradicated in Cyprus.
Yet it did not prove a success in S’Africa. In Natal th«
pest is poisoned, when in the wingless stage, with a mix-
ture made up of 101 b. arsenic, 51b. caustic soda, 10 gallons
water. The arsenic is first boiled in water to dissolve it.
Common molasses is added in the proportion of one
gallon to two gallons of the mixture. The mixture is then
ready for use. A spray pump is used to sprinkle the
vegetation with the solution around the places where the
young grasshoppers are feeding, making a complete ring
of poison round the swarm.
“ Agricola ” : There are advocates of cheap
wire-netting fences who state that netting 18
inches high is sufficient to keep rabbits
out of crops, provided the ground is level.
They maintain that bunny will not jump
over wire-netting under any circumstances.
They are wrong. Some time ago several
trappers in this district built a netting
yard, with long wings, into which they
used to drive the rabbits every evening.
The wings were made of 18in. netting. The
price of skins slumped, and the trappers
went scrubbing, leaving the yard. It was
only a few weeks before the rabbits began
to bounce merrily backward and forward
over the wings, and at times it seemed as
though a steeplechase was in progress.
Then the trappers came back, and removed
the yard elsewhere, leaving the sticks
which supported the wings at about 4ft.
intervals still standing. It was amusing to
watch the rabbits leaping 18in. into the
air over nothing, and clearing it beautifully.
It took them a month to realise properly that
the netting was no longer there.
“Combo”: To see the beach-comber of
Australia you must go to Borroloola, on the Mac-
arthur River (Northern Territory). Every quar-
ter, a steamer with a Chinese name, and
built in Hongkong, arrives from Port Darwin,
the Mongolia of the Commonwealth. Then the
population of the surrounding district makes for
Borroloola in a mass, with its black and brindle
harems, and tribes of variegated piccaninnies. Eor
days and days a jamboree is kept up, and the
many-colored crowd swallows much fusel oil.
Here you see the degenerate white mixing with
the savage in a purely brotherly fashion. There
are no bosses ; every one is Tom, Dick and Harry.
There’s a pub at Borroloola and a store, and they
both sell liquor, and fierce competition makes the
grog cheap.
“Nulla ” : Although it comes from
America, I’m inclined to think there’s something
in the yarn that the running of a few full-flavored
lie-goats amongst mobs of sheep stalls off pariah
dogs, foxes, etc. I never yet saw the “pup” that
Sweet William wasn’t ready and willing to argue
points with. In any case, the experiment is
worth trying, especially when the value of Bill
Angora’s annual hair-cut is taken into account.
“ Agricola ” : Occasionally we hear much
outcrv from naturalists, because we persist in
calling the kookaburra the laughing jackass. But
he has painstakingly earned his right to the latter
name, and it would be a shame to deprive him of
it. The other day I saw a particularly good speci-
men of a snake’s cast-off garment. I coveted the
thing, as it was over 6ft. long and all in one
piece ; so I went a couple of miles out of my way
to get it when returning. Nearing the place
where I had seen it, twisted around some young
briars and tufts of grass, I observed an excited old-
man jackass flying round in thirteen sorts of
hurry. He laughed fit to bust his sides, and
seemed on the best of terms with himself. He was
killing a piece of that unfortunate snake-hide,
banging it on the limb of a tree in the most ortho-
dox manner. Five other pieces had already been
slain to his satisfaction. Before I topped the next
rise he had slaughtered three more sections, and
was making noble efforts to swallow his latest
victim. For all I know, he may be still killing it,
if it hasn’t all worn out yet.
"TWY, TWY AGAIN!"
NEW-CHUM (poking his companion in the ribs to
attract his attention): “ Say, uncle, I’ve
pulled, the twiggah of the demn thing twaice,
but it won't go off. What evah will Ido!"
“ Charlie ” : In the Tallangatta (Vic.) dis-
trict there is a charred stump about 15ft. high
with the statue of a man on top of it. It is a
purely accidental statue burnt out by a frivolous
and whimsical bush conflagration. The figure
wears a belltopper ; and a hollow, with daylight
showing through it just below the neck, makes a
fairly respectable biled shirt.
* * * *
“ Yigilans ” : I think Eddington shed and
scour, 85 miles from Cloncurry, in North-West
Queensland, where we are told the white man
can’t live, would take some beating. The shed is
a high-roofed building, with 40 machines, worked
by a Tangye engine. Scour, dryer and patent press
are in one building, the wool going in greasy at one
end, and coming out washed and -in bales at the
other. A bore is alongside, throwing 800,000 gallons
a day. The shearers’ quarters are good—thijie
spring mattresses in each room ; four showers and
16 basins in the bathroom ; good, roomy dining
rooms for shearers and rouseabouts ; library and
reading room. Eddington shore 75,000 sheep this
year. There are 15 bores on the run sunk to
1000 ft., and the water is excellent. Civilisation
doesn’t end just outside Brisbane—not by any
means.
A FELLOW FEELING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They had followed local custom,
Which said custom seems to say :
“ If you’ve cheques, well, quickly bust ’em
In the old, time-honored way.”
Near the town of Hobs o’ Hell
Twenty men were sleep ng well,
In the shadow of the fences round the Boozers Kest
Hotel.
Free and easy were their manners,
And their snores were fierce and deep,
Startling oft the weird gohanners
Crawling o’er them in their sleep.
Came the villain down the road,
And, as serpent-like he glode,
On the slumberers a look of weird expectancy bestowed.
No one stirred ; and from their sockets
Then his eyeballs fairly bulged ;
But the nearest sleepers’ pockets
Not a single bean divulged.
Then he rose as though to flee,
For came accents low and dree
From his quarry, who’d awakened, and was talking
dreamily.
Came the words : “ We’re dead-broke brothers ;
Ours is droughty misery.
So don’t bother with the others,
For they’re all as stiff as me.
Not a bob to each man’s name ;
You are on a worked-out claim,
For I fossicked it most thoroughly a while before you
came.”
N.8.W.
NULLA.


£
O W O'-O
A .STIMULANT
It imparts lasting exhilaration
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS.
Poems in Rings,
S* Prose in Finger Rings.
Verse in Gem Rings.
Humor, Comedy, Tragedy, Pathos, Life—
all can be expressed with intensity in
Rings. It depends on the ring artist —the
gem expert—the combination of ideas—
taste and training.
Exquisite Australian Tourmaline
and 4 Diamonds, £l2.
We are ring: experts—ring’ artists. We think rings—Live by rings—
From the jewel in the rough to the finished scintillating ornament.
We handle them —hence our low prices for first-class rings.
All Diamonds. Perfect
Jager Stones, £35.
Perfect Australian Sap-
phire & Diamonds, £2B
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
♦ House in Sydney, 23 Hunter Street*
Grasshoppers have suddenly jumped into
vthe front rank of plagues in N.S. W., and they are
tnow more dreaded in the central districts than
the rabbit. The rabbit is at least saleable, but
(the ’hopper is dead loss. Then the rabbit is more
tthe bane of the big man—the pastoralist or grazier
while the ’hopper is equally the terror of the
t farmer and selector. At Molong, the other day,
• one Miller expounded to the local Pastures Protec-
itionßoard how, by herculean efforts, he had cleared
:his 2000 acres of grasshoppers, only to find his
iplaceiliberally re-stocked from surrounding pro-
perties, the owners of which hadn’t taken the
itrouble to stamp on a single insect. He therefore
moved that the Government be asked to pass a
law, making it compulsory on landholders to make
war on ’hoppers, the same as on rabbits. The
Board, however, unanimously fired Miller and his
motion out, on the ground that it would be mon-
strous to compel large landholders to war on the
’hoppers because the men who grew crops of
wheat and vegetables objected to them. Yet the
large landholders are glad enough to have the
compulsory assistance of the cocky in keeping
down rabbits —a business that is mostly the big
man’s funeral. Natal, which has locusts and
hasn’t got rabbits, has already passed laws com-
pelling locust destruction. A landowner in Natal
daren’t shoo a single locust across his back fence
without incurring a big penalty. He must put
his foot on it inside his own paling. Certainly
legislation is needed in N.S.W. to prevent grazing
areas breeding grasshoppers, which afterwards
devastate the wheat lands. This paper agrees
with Miller, although he was fired out.
Sydney Technological Museum Curator
It. T. Baker, F.L.S., and 11. G. Smith, F.C.S.,
have been looking scientifically at the Australian ti-
tree, with results that augur favorably for another
new Australian industry. Oil of cajuputis one of
the world’s valuable commercial essential oils,
at present is chiefly a Javanese product. The two
Sydney botanists have persuaded a common
ti-tree (Malalenca uncinata) to yield a new
cajuput, said to fulfil the requirements of
the British pharmacopoeia. The Australian oil
differs from the ordinary only in that its steare-
optene, or solid alcohol, is entirely new, and
doesn’t agree with any previously-known plant
extract.
THE UNREASONABLENESS OF A SEEKER
AFTER “ TROUBLE."
SYMPATHETIO FRIEND: “ Hold up, Bill. Ye're
always saying as 'ow a bloke never gets all he
wants, and now when yer got all yer want
and a bit over yer don't like it.”
ctn » no )> /t>
Camp-oven . Crow (B. 19/12/ 07),
discussing part of the family history of his mare
Bloss, wants to know how the party of crows in
attendance knew of the arrival of the dead foal,
It is well known to those acquainted with the
habits of the crow that the least sign of seediness
in any animal is the subject for immediate in-
vestigation by the crow Works Committee,
“ Crow ” states further that he brought the vet.
out. Now every sensible crow knows that where
there’s a job for the vet. there’s a chance for the
crow, and in country districts the vet.’s move-
ments are familiar to every self-respecting
black-’un.
A PRIMITIVE IDEA.
JACKT : “ Him plurry poor, that pfeller-him teetotaler."
“Brad”: How different are the results
produced by different drinks! After a “blow-
out ” on the beverage that foams at the mouth,
my friend William Jones (locally known as
“Woppo”) waxes melancholy, and makes lament
in hiccoughy tones concerning his “pore ole
woman,” and his little brother Tom, who acci-
dentally dropped himself into a well six years
ago, and never smiled since. And yet, with a
full cargo of whisky aboard, “Woppo” becomes
a whirling mass of stoush and wrath.
* * • *
“T.0.M.”: Has anyone remarked the
bigotry of bees ? Some people declare that they
are not religionists, but those folk never
studied them. I have seen swarms in the
bush that would eat a Protestant if he ven-
tured within 40yds., while a Holy Roman
could sing ribald songs in their presence
unmolested. I should like to see Dill
Macky interview a swarm w@ took
once at Burke’s Flat. There was only
one Protestant (a boy) in the party.
The rest of us believed strongly in
the Flames of Smithfield. I mounted
the limb of the fallen gum, from
which depended the globe of bees.
I was to knock the limb and send
the swarm into the gin-case, hel4
beneath by my brother Alf. The
boy held the sheet —that is, he was
going to, but the bees struck him
like a clod. They crawled over two
ordinary Roman Catholics and a
Jesuit to get at him. His own mother
couldn’t identify him for two weeks.
Perhaps the introduction of Italian
queens has something to do with the
religious trouble. That same boy be-
came a Roman Catholic later on, and
now he can kick a hive over the fence with im-
punity.
• •* # ■
“Nulla”: Shearing records, like New
Year resolutions, eggs, international treaties, and
other trifles, seem to be only made to be broken.
In B. 19/12/’O7, a Blackall (Q.) man sent along the
performance of a team of “guns,” who averaged
159 sheep per man per day, one man going as
high as 225. Blackall finished up by loftily
asserting that big tallies only grew in Banana-
land. Blackall’s chest could hardly have sub-
sided, however, when from Monaro I got news
that five Wambrook men had scored over 1100 each
for the week, one day’s average being 230 per
man, towards which the ringer (E. Fern) con-
tributed a modest 251. And Queensland jum-
bucks are not the same as the Monaro animals by
a handful or two.
* * * *
“ Flinderino ” : For a toothsome and
easily-caught fish I nominate the king-
fish, which is plentiful along the North
Queensland coast. On most of the coastal
boats a fishing-line is kept in readiness at
the stern. The king-fish always notifies its
presence by leaping Bft. or 10ft. out of the water.
The man at the wheel then calls out “Fish ahoy!”
and one of the crew goes aft and throws in the
business end of the line. The bait is simply a
piece of white or red rag. The sailor goes back to
the job he was at, and returns to the stern five
minutes later. With the assistance of a mate he
hauls in the fish —which is always there. It
often measures 6ft. from stem to stern, and
is as fat as a keg of butter.
“Jimmie Pannikin ” : Broken Hill lately
had a record dust-storm. Proud, perspiring locals
assert that such a regal and reckless dust display
has rarely been surpassed in the Sahara or the
Great Gobi. There have been denser storms and
storms of greater duration; but this particular
one was remarkable for the exquisite beauty of
its transformation scenes, from beginning to end.
But let the eloquent, if parched pressman, speak :
First, there was a great mist in the distance; then the
gradual dimming of the light; then the swift oncoming
of great tumbling masses of color. Every shade of color
seemed to be striving to cram itself on the transient
palette. A few nervous people became frightened, and
thought that the end of the world had come. Lights
had to be lit, for indoors it was pitch dark, and even out-
side everything was blotted out for the moment. For
some time it was impossible to see across the streets.
Then, gradually the heavens lightened, the close, dusty
smell gave wav to the patter of rain—rain that registered
a trifling thirty points. It was a glorious sight to those
who watched it approaching for about two hours across
the Mundi Mundi plains, the beautiful banks of color
rolling over and on till they struck Umberumberka with
a crash. Several places were destroyed ; others at not-
quite-dead Silverton were damaged considerably.
The Barrier duststorms of average bulk and
beauty are good things to be away from. After
such a storm as the one described, the sand and
red dust would be taken out of hotels and houses
by the shovelful. Hours of work are necessary to
thoroughly clean a dwelling of any size after a
dust invasion. Occasionally the weight of the
sand driven up under the eaves of the corrugated
iron roofs breaks down the canvas or hessian
ceilings. Various outbackers stoutly assert that
the dust is sometimes driven fair through the solid
sides of 400-gallon tanks. In Menindie one of the
churches has to be tied down to prevent its being
blown away during the storms.
* * * ♦
Guyra (N.S.W.) some eight years ago
possessed a lake of decent proportions, 10ft.
deep in places. The local residents used to boat
and fish on the lake, and one enterprising in-
dividual ran a steam launch. It was seriously
proposed not so long ago to make the
lake Armidale’s water supply, but luckily
the scheme fell through, for to-day the bed
of the “ lake ” is green grass, the water having all
disappeared. The land agents, not anticipating
this, hadn’t grabbed the land under the water,
and local residents are c iamoring to have the bed
of the lake thrown open for closer settlement.
The Lands Department can’t find the hole down
which the lake dropped, and has no guarantee
that the water, like the cat, won’t come back, but
as heavy rains have fallen without refilling the
lake, the would-be cookies are ready to chance it.
Still the Government people are dubious about
the bona Jides of the lake. Before agreeing to
sell its bed, the Lands Office will require an in-
demnity from purchasers in the event of “Mother
of Ducks,” which used to be its name, choosing to
come back some day.
DE MORTUIS NIL NISI BONUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
News came that Smit was dead. We all knew Smit*
Bach one of us had some time felt his touch
Upon our packet, or his snarl of wit
At tender things we inly cherished much.
And some he deeply wronged. On land and sea
We knew he lied and cozened ; loaded dice
And cards up-sleeve he carried constantly,
Impartially for virtue or for vice.
Smit dead ! There was not one of us but thrilled
With satisfaction. Yet a cry, “ Poor Smit ! “
Went up. One drew a handkerchief and spilled
Hot tears upon it- Smit—his smartness, wit,
And grit, and all about him, formed a theme
Apparently so dear that anyone
Who heard our puling elegies would deem
Smit’s death had darkened everybody’s sun.
Yet one and all we inly said, “ D Smit! ’*
’Twas old convention made the puling lie ;
And if our consciences demurred to it,
“ Be mortuis we solaced, “ nil nisi ! ”
N.S.W.
Y.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
IVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Jean Sibi: A good reply, but the foolish little
man at Numurkah wasn’t worth it... .Mallet (Westralia):
The St. Hilda (Vic.) pier is 2285 ft. long Odd Man Out l
“Fritz’s Vision” too laborious The Snicker: “Oh’*
declined. The person who yearns to be bad is too
common. The man who writes this fully intends to be
dam bad or to go up in a balloon or something the first
time he has a day off... .Tahuna : “ Bohemian ” rejected
after a big, heavy think.. ..L.A. : “Both Sides” just
public vehicle with two horses....C.H. :
r ate was knocked out in the second round, so to
speak T.B.P : All “cling”and “ clink ” and “clang.”
It jou had only put “bang” into it things wouldn’t
have seemed so monotonous Victor 0.8. : All pain-
tully artificial; not a gleam of reality in the lot
Circumstance : Not going to “ write you down as an ass!”
Also not going to write you up as a poet J. Cake:
Xour Gundy” explanation the lamest to date
Numurkah : The turning of a dog before lying down has
been argued to death. The commonest theory is that the
custom is a survival—that the palaeozoic dog revolved like
that to smooth down the grass so that he might lie on it
with comfort F.S.H. : The mild, lachrymose senti-
ment of your verse and story renders them both hope-
lessly unsuitable....A. Cardiff: Most notable feature
about your yarn was the 2d. we had to pay for deficient
P°* ta S e , on the envelope that was outside the yarn....
G.y. (Marengo): Horrid recital of how you and Danny
Blake found and ate the ashes of a fever-slain
Chow in mistake for baking-powder firmly rejected
lahuna: The “ heart-sprung voice ” and the “ girl-dream
i air , and the “ hard-fought years that were salted deep ’’
spoil it. Why not corn the years, or have them
smoked 10 x 5: The sleeper controversy begins to
, ° s °mnolent, and it’s hereby dropped.... F. D.
Ldinderry : “ Life and Death ” only reminds that life is
alive and death is dead... .Dion : “Sunday Drought ” too
dry Blue : May just about do H. H. Bert : You’ll
have to hump your bluey a good way yet before
you reach print; last rhymed letter was the best to date.
....Lugene Just: Too jerky... .Highwayman ; There is
a good yarn in “ Closing Down,” but you don’t tell it
J.D.G. : One of your sketch-ideas is a steal from a three-
year-old Bulletin. Steals, to have much hope, ought to
be older than that. Others, being no good, don’t fall
under suspicion Harry H. : But the captain doesn’t
ask the man at the wheel “ how’s her head ? ” —at least
not as a rule. He tells him how to keep “ her head,”
and says things when “ her head ” departs therefrom
Yanco : Don’t like your maggot par. Its interest doesn’t
compensate for the appalling “ atmosphere ” that sur-
rounds it... .C.S.G. : Tragedy concerning young girl who
shunted her lover because he came back with a bald head
after making his fortune rejected. It’s unreal J.
Lev : You send two essays, “ The Folly of Girls—Their
faults and Their Follies,” and “ The Folly of Pride.” In
the same breath you threaten us with these: “ Panegyric
to the Sublime and Virtuous,” “To An Old Maid,” “To
'-ru Combat of Lake Thule,” “Mystery of
The Black Swamp,” etc. You also state you are writing
a play and have the plot of another designed. If you go
.°b bke that you’ll break down. P.S.—We’ll break down
too Thelma: Not a hope Wanderer (S’Africa): No
market here Eily : “ Revenge ” isn’t sweet. And the
spider would have got clean away, too, if you had
addressed it at that length....A.H.H. : Rather tired of
the brave, strong, grief-stricken, silent man who never
mentions the past... .H.H. (M.L.) :We like imagery, but
it’s carrying the thing a bit too far to say that the lady
was “a painted barque, with timbers all uneaulked, all
sails awry, and nothing taut.” You might caulk her
timbers, anyway, before publishing a lady Wanderer
(N. Sydney): Some ability ; but you’re working another
man’s patch with theother man’stools E.H.G.: Unsuit-
able Ansonia: Lacks point H.H.B. : Tear up the
next 40, and send us the 415 t... .Bower Hansen : Afraid
you’d better tear up your 41st as well Bandi-
coot: Both weak... ~P.W. : “Smileless” too pro-
tracted.. ..Revert: Some quality, but metre has to
be helped along with a crutch too often
Liza Lee : You complain that housekeeping leaves you no
leisure to write, and you send a tiny, innocuous sample.
Housekeeping seems the ideal occupation for a poet; you
have the brain leisure to sing as you sweep and dream as
you dust and poetise as you put on the potatoes. It is
the journalist who hasn’t the time;—which is brain-leisure
—to become a poet. But if you “ feel you must write ”
well, potatoes won’t stop you, even if they’re burnt. Still,
a potato is a precious thing—as precious as a poem
Jane Jones: Yes, distinctly hopeful L.S.D. : Your
letter cost 4d. for deficient postage. A previous letter
was also short in the postage. Therefore your stuff
strikes the waste-paper basket unread this time
Wm. Scutt: If you want to purchase books mentioned
on the “Red Page,” write direct to the adver-
tiser upon that page. That’s what he’s there for
W.J. : “Girls of To-day” deserves a corner for its origin-
ality. So let us clear our throat and start:—
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.N. : Picture inefficient, and joke, which wasn’t much
when it was new, is now quite decrepit J.H.C. :
Picture referring to Blanker, the actor, declined....
Charles B. : A most unpromising collection P.J.M. :
One of the men looks like a monkey, and the other like a
criminal who deserves an indeterminate sentence. As
for the aboriginal woman, she looks like the Devil
Stan : (1) The lady in the single garment hiding behind
the furniture isn’t beautiful enough to justify her nudity;
(2) View of stout lady’s legs isn’t romantic ; (3) Drunk
joke belongs to a very large family of drunk jokes, all
much alike. Artistically, though, you have possibilities.
....J.R.M. : The pictorial drunk who comes home at 2 a.m.
with an ingenious explanation is so old a subject that the
explanation requires to be very ingenious these days....
BobS. : “Woman’s Work” too gruesome.... Lewis
H. : “ Slayer ” not very good and very creepy... .Oding:
Couldn’t fathom your illustrated jest anent the weeping-
parents, and so the said jest, parents, and all, fathomed
the W.P.B.
When I see the Girls of to-day “ It makes me feel “ Odd ”
With their high heels and their flounces
As up the Street they Bounces
“ Now ” I say that Girls to-day “ Is not the Girls ”
They was in “ Mother’s ” time.
When they go to do their shopping “ They want a Motor
Car
A Bicycle and Gyver, ” a hat that costs a fiver
And a dandy sore of feller “ with cigarette and Umbrella
“ So ” I say that girls to-day “ Is not the girls
They was in “ Mother’s” time.
They cannot work at home “ Without a Phonograph ”
A Piano or an organ and a “ Laughing Jackass ”
As his cigarette he puffs “ they kiss and mugs like Muffs
“ And ” I say that girls to.day “ Is not the girls
They was in “ Mother’s ” time.
....Unsuitable: S.S., Lupus, W.E.P., Tahuna.


If froviderrcc could on I j endow
zA w 4 disposition -to Think
nnore of wokK fc- »«* of %e
to 4*v,Jb fa res* Hrs
o c h broducton ,r wou 4 /
crown our /
,//
There is nolnmo
Jn life CroJ» of fending ,
li+'i<ia k 'l'i o *t "be'tween C° lr ‘ w 7° , ’
i^S+V^S.
Federations wou^h
tnese orders -
[ A S C ]
Bi«w«jki*-.-‘ Hv f°r V MW "[ 9"
pA :_ “£« yV« S'r, V * *T>
bvrwhicli vrf b«lit.c»v»
ii/st’ly fUi**| ."■» respect" To
*ff !“**»« IS
infinites'"** •**
em w°r*u u r nr* «<>o i“' r 1
|>Uce op one |>A Wne ‘* , f
ft'oj>o( > ed by tfe j'nenJs o p
fa*Of* "fo sent!
lionne on -rt)e SA*>»e
~ f turners $<
Would l>e
g'^ a i° Kn °y
A usfr*.li\" rAbbilr
is onlv «n
bcno4 .of ,
S+MT7H I ‘O
follflwe4
e*A °f ; ’
IW:- * ®— • '
'T\Ki lli"1 !
Aj>cllyon]
modifies if* adtHude +owv3\
licenced "but" urt'rewy'CzreA Courses,
v/'ll "be " ~ _
a [My PAj>«r]
X
Tommy [ /
)-|lstorice\l
Jj_eTme li’Ke A Governor J
5-A«s f Treasurer, in
Governors
His •ni^'Wt' l>e
'lfc Usl""'ffa
op
[Pa* 4 f*l>€r]
RELIGION, RABBITS, &c.


New Vear's Eve in Sydney.
•re « «..*• ..1W
them go in first as a precaution no.*! ’* u* , Sa,d ‘ “ artd 1 alwa ys let
have their uses.” gainst sharks. Even Oppositionists
Queensland revenue this half-yeas
shows a surplus—and Philp is Premier I
Needless to say it isn’t Philp’s surplus
Ex-Premier Kidston : "Gimme back me
coat I ”
Dat en^p r ' n Sydne >'> New Year's
L>ay. "Federation is unpopular.”
lat^rt 1 n Seei ” B the SOrt ° f Federa ' legls-
lators one meets, perhaps he’s right!
Through the neglect of one ui uie
i Uttle suburban councils, plague has
j again appeared in Sydney. /
“Just called to remind you that
you haven't got a *Greater Syd-
ney ’ yet-”
Suggested treatment tor the humorist
who pretends to be drowning the
Bondi surf, and beguiles others Into risk-
ing their lives on his account.
PLAGUE AND OTHER TROUBLES.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming: Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences Tel. 321,
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
Many sufferers from rheumatism have been
surprised and delighted at the prompt relief
obtained by applying Chamberlain’s Pain Balm.
A permanent cure may be effected by continuing
the use of this liniment for a short time.*
PHOTOS
PROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty andchio. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents,
THOSE AFFLICTED WITH SORE EYES,
Dimness of Sight,
Weak Eyes,
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids,
HAVE YOU TRIED
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
The great Australian Remedy. This
marvellous preparation is an absolute
specific for Sandy Blight, and is now in
general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally send a
postal note for 1/9 to the Sole Proprietors,
H. A. KOSE & CO.,
531 George Street, Sydney.
Beware of the man who has something
just as good.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Thomas Alston, who pocketed a big pro-
portion of Melbourne s fat cheques for fulls when
Melbourne was frilliest, died the other day the
last of the ancient firm of Alston and Browri. In
the ’fifties the Williamsons were the Collins-street
drapers. Alston joined them, and later on bought
the business, and afterwards took in his manager,
W. W. Brown, as partner. Then, as the bank
Vial an ce grew, Alston lost his taste for fluff and
frills, and the old business faded out, and the old
shop was pulled down, and the old boss—always
a benevolent old party, so far as his staff was con-
cerned —took to sitting on Boards —the A.M.r.
among them —and on the Bench. He was close up
to 86 when he died.
“ Melb.” discourses on the same draper :
Tom Alston has just passed away. The best-known
Collins-street draper, a living yardstick, who did naught
but drape, except for his good deeds in the sacred cause
of charity, according to old Coppin’s favorite expression.
Alston was very tall, very thin, a very distingub aristo-
crat of the Ciothworkers’ Company, aquiline, hatchet-
faced, open-mouthed, and open-handed. His eyes were
ever half closed. The sublimation of a P. O. Fysh
kind of man, and P. O. F. began in the same
line, with “What is the next thing, madam?
The firm was Alston and Brown, next door to
its precise rivals, Moubray and Lush. Brown
was a bustling little bank manager sort, who took care
that Alston didn’t give all the money avvay. The next-
door firms were queerly chummy. It was a regular thing
to see Tom Alston and Tom Moubray chatting on an
imaginary neutral line between their shops. Moubray
came to be alderman and mayor. Collins-street had all
the flash drapery vogue, till Bourke-street undercut it
with Buckley and Nunn and Robertson and Moffat. Last
generation, or the one before, any one of this quartet of
firms would have been shocked, like fashionable doctors,
at the idea of advertising or ticketing prices.
THE LATE ALBERTO ZELMAN , of Mel-
bourne. A good musician and a great identity.
Photo, by T. Humphrey & Co., Melbourne.
“Tommy” Dodd, who, 30 years ago, was
almost as well known among S. Australian cattle-
men as Syd Kidman is to-day, died a few days
back. He had, so to speak, turned himself out to
grass years ago. v
By a curious coincidence, the name of
W. J. W. Strong—brother of Dr. Bob Strong of
the Wallace case—appears as a “petitioner’s
proctor ” on the Melbourne Divorce Court list for
February. Proctor Strong is acting for a China-
man named Wong War Chuck.
Dame Catherine Moulder, who passed over
(2/l/’08), setat 93, watched Orange grow from a
swamp (Blackman’s Swamp monopolised the
present Orange site 72 years ago) to one of the
chief western N.S.W. towns. The Moulder lady
leaves 80 descendants behind to mourn her loss,
and boast of her longevity.
To join in its annual Foundation spree, S.
Australia still mustered on December 28 an even
dozen who date back to 1836, the year when the
Buffalo arrived. The celebration is always held
at Glenelg, where the province was “proclaimed.
Cold Tea-ite Bruntnell retires to the Cold
Country to take up a strenuous position in the
ranks of those who are badgering Campbell-
Bannerman to hurry on with a Liquor Bill.
Bruntnell left the Salvation Army to take a hand
in Deform politics in the Ma State. He got in on
a split vote at a by-election, and lasted just
about a year. Then his tempestuous career ended,
and he had once more to fall back on his jaw for
a subsistence.
Parson Lorimer Fison, who died at Mel-
bourne recently, was well-known in scientific
circles. He went to Fiji in 1864 as a Wesleyan
missionary, and embodied his observations of the
indigenous inhabitant in a series of papers to the
Anthropological Institute. He was an Australian
representative at the Oxford (Eng.) meeting of
the British Association in ’94, and in ’95 got a
pension of £l5O a year from the Imperial Govern-
ment for “distinguished scientific services. A
bigger man than most people imagined was
Lorimer Fison.
Captain Simpson, of the Aberdeen-White
Star liner Moravian, who has completed 7o round
voyages to the Australian, lately received a cluster
of felicitations on his remarkable record ; but
the S. .VI. Herald cites one circumstances which
seems expressed in the somewhat wobbly language
of holiday time :
During that long period he lias but on one occasion
spent a Christmas at home. But such a circumstance
in no sense represents a grievance.
Seventy-four of Captain Simpson’s voyages had
London and Sydney as termini, and it is counted
to his credit that he was never shipwrecked, and
never lost a man overboard.
At latest advices, the Rev. George Glad-
stone, of Nathalffi (Vie.), was still holding the
sacred entrenchment, despite the demand of the
amazing Bishop of Wangaratta that he should
resign because he doesn t attract the Fat and
Bloated to his church. There was a half-formed
hope that the archbishop might by this time have
called on the worldly-wise bishop to resign, and
told him that house-and-land-agency, or money-
lending, or cattle-dealing, or something large and
swift in the jerry-building trade w;ould be better
suited to a prelate with such a dizzy eye to the
main chance than his present job of trailing in the
dusty wake of the Nazarene. Unfortunately, the
Principal Gaiters hasn’t seen fit to move, and the
Deputy Gaiters still sits in his palace and keeps
an eye on “ people in leading positions.”
A pioneer Australian shipwright left the
slips at Melbourne, the other day, aged 80. His
name was John Gibbons, and he came to Victoria
in 1851, and built the first floating dock on the
Yarra. Hard luck hit him between wind and
water in the ’6o’s, and the destruction by fire of
his buildings on the present site of the Federal
Palace Hotel, and an unsuccessful attempt to raise
the City of Launceston from the bottom of Hob-
son’s Bay, let him in for a scuttle-butt of money.
At one time it looked as if he would be blown up
by his creditors and sold for old copper, but he
stuck to the helm, and made a rise by the pur-
chase and recovery of another sunken craft, the
Black Swan. He built and owned vessels after
that, and made money ; but as the A.U.S.N. Co.
and Howard Smith, and such-like people, never
gave him an order for a palatial liner, he didn’t
get a chance to show his real capacity.
In an article on mural tablets in St.
James’sChurch (Sydney), S. M. Herald insinuates
that Dr. Warded was murdered by a bushranger
on Surry Hills. Wardell was an LL.D., and
owned an estate of many acres atPetersham. On
September 7, ’34, he was riding round his property,
when he came across three runaway convicts.
They were not bushrangers in the accepted sense
of the term. Warded endeavored to drive them
before him, so that they might be arrested and
flogged, as usual. The escapees cautioned him,
but without avail, and one Jenkins tired the fatal
shot. They covered up the body with bushes, and
worked their way, via Ultimo House, to Miller’s
Point, the object being to get a ship to take them
from the colony. They failed in this, and returned
to the scene of the murder, which was down near
Cook’s River—Wardell-road about indicates the
spot. The three were captured, the youngest,
Emmanuel Brace, aged 16, turning King’s evi-
dence.
The first Australian memorial to the Rev.
Richard Johnson takes the shape of a tablet to
be placed in St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney.
This is a healthy drop from the scheme to induce
the Government to erect, or subsidise the erection
of, a Johnson monument in a central part of the
city. The first “ colonial parson ” made a whack
of money out of his early opportunities, and bore
it off triumphantly to England. Hunter gave
him an easy lease of part of Circular Quay, and
a present of most of Petersham, which he quickly
disposed of at good figures. His Reverence was
a born trafficker. Even his J.P.-ship he en-
deavored to turn to profit, by claiming five extra
convict servants to work in his orchard at Hunter’s
Hid in return for his magisterial services ; and
when granted four at a very small charge, he
managed to get off to England without paying the
charge, and had the account sent after him. An
economical toiler in the vineyard was Rev. Robert
Johnson.
“ Vic,” in a biographical vein :
A noble nonagenarian life has just ended, with Mrs. H.
S. Wills, of Geelong, mother of T. W. Wills, the cricketer.
He took the aboriginal cricketers to England in 1867,
with Gurnett and Lawrence. The Melbourne Public
Library has the original agreement, signed, or marked,
by Mullagb, Guzens, Tarpot, Sundown, Bed Cap,
and the others. But to Mrs. H. S. Wills. What
stamina! She leaves three sons alive out of four
(and Tommy ought not to have died), and four
daughters out of five, with 36 grandchildren, and
17 great-grandchildren. Mrs. Wills married at 16.
H. S. Wills first emerged as a squatter at Tumut. He
transported his whole family, in bullock drays, over to
Victoria, where he named Mount Ararat and Mount Wil-
liam. He was a member of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly (1856). He proposed that members ought to
be allowed to read their speeches, such was the back-
wardness in starting the flow that now can’t be stopped.
With characteristic enterprise Wilis went to the Leich-
hardt, to establish a station. The blacks killed him. No
relation, apparently, of the explorer Wills.
SAVING HIS MODESTY.
LADY TEACHER (drowsily): “ What is it, Tom?"
TOM: “ Jimmy's swearing!"
LADY TEACHER (still drowsily): “ What did he say ? (Pause.)
TOM: “ Well, Miss, if you'll say over all the lad words you know, I'll tell you when you
come to it.”
W. A. McArthur, of the M‘Millan rag and
corset concern, has resigned his seat in the House
of Commons, doubtless owing to the re-construc-
tion of his firm. He is a Sydney native, son of
Alexander McArthur, who represented Aewtown
in the reformed Parliament of 1859. Mac had
risen to be a Junior Lord of the Treasury and one
of the Liberal Whips when the unpleasantness
happened.
F, F. Turner, who died in Adelaide the
other day, had the queer experience of being a
Minister without ever being in Parliament. When
that interesting theorist. Dr. Cockburn, fright-
ened Moulden out of the Attorney-Generalship
in 1890 he was stuck up for a successor, and got a
stopgap out of the Public Service, Turner being
the man. The arrangement lasted about six weeks.
Samuel J. Way first learned how to charge six-
and-eightpence as a clerk in Turner’s office, at
Gawler, over half-a-century ago. The clerk
became Chief Justice ; the boss went to the Titles
Office.
The Bulletin's Oldest Inhabitant wakes
up and holds forth :
An Australian belonging to a family of at least a couple
of generations’ duration was wedded recently to a
Canadian at St. Stephen’s Church, Bayswater Koad,
London. She was Mav Constance Kater, youngest
daughter of the late E. H. Kater, of Mumblehone,
Warren (N.S.W.), and niece of H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ;
while He was John Russell, of Philmore, Task, Canada.
The Katers consider themselves Somebodies. H. H.
Kater (of German extraction) was one of the Karl
Marshal’s officers of State and frill at the Coronation
of Queen Victoria. He came to N. S. Wales in 1839 in the
ship Euphrates, which he chartered and loaded with
horses and cattle. Amongst the horses were Cap-a-pie,
Tross, Cantab, Paraguay, The Giggler, and Georgians,
from which have been bred some of the best racing stock.
The cattle helped to form the celebrated stud of W. H.
Suttor, of Brucedale. Mr. Kater married in July, 1840,
Eliza Charlotte, daughter of Major Edward Darvall, and
had two sons and four daughters. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
married a daughter of William Forster, a very remote and
temporary Premier of N.S. W. He was at one time clerk in a
Mudgee hank, and was once coming by coach to Sydney
with £6OOO in cancelled notes of the Oriental and A.J.S.
Banks, which were to be officially burnt in the me ro-
polis. The coach was stuck up on the Bathurst-Sydney
road at Big Hill bv one of the Lowrys—the one after-
wards shot bv Stephenson at the Limerick Races pub, at
Cook’s Vale Creek. Even in those days the desire to
bring everything to Sydney was so great that a bundle of
tattered and gone notes couldn’t be combusted an v where
else. G. R. Dibbs made H. E. Kater an M.L.C. in 1889,
and 19 years’ research hasn’t explained why he did it.
The world’s oldest R.C. bishop has doffed
the mitre. Archbishop Murphy, of Hobart
(Tas.), was born at Belmont, County Cork (Ire-
land), on 18th June, 1815, and was ordained as a
priest in 1838. He accompanied Bishop Carew to
Madras (India) in ’45, and acted as coadjutor to
Bishop Fennelly. He became first Bishop of
Hyderabad in ’4B, and during the Mutiny did his
little bit towards upholding the Empire by teach-
ing the Catholic College students how to shoot.
He left India in ’65, and in the following year
succeeded Bishop Wilson at Hobart. He became
Archbishop of Hobart in ’BB. When he died the
other day, at Low Head, near Launceston, his years
numbered rather less than 93, and the community
remarked that a marvellous old man had departed.
In fact, Archbishop Murphy has been regarded
as a really marvellous old man for many years—
and he didn’t reach 93 after all. Hardly anybody
that the public really knows and can verify gets
beyond 93 ; and very, very few arrive there. Yet
the public, which would have almost died of
astonishment if the well-known Murphy had lived
to be 96, accepts without a murmur the hideous
joke about some obscurity at Bull Flat who died
at the age of 110 chewing tobacco strongly to the
last.
Coroner Samuel Curtis Candler, of Mel-
bourne, gives up his job after 54 years’ active
service, if service that consists in sitting on
defuncts can be said to be active. Candler was
appointed when the ’fifties were roaring them-
selves hoarse, and when a Victorian coroner was
chiefly employed investigating the case of the
unknown miner found in a deserted hole with
his head knocked in, or that of the waif
and stray whose bones had been bagged in
the bush. Since then he has sat on all
sorts and conditions of people thousands of
them, not even excepting live ones, for his most
cheerful recollection is of the Avoca swaggie who
came-to just in time to avert a verdict of death
from natural causes. When Candler complained
later, in a humorous vein, that his labors had been
wasted, the swaggie replied: “Never mind, old
man ; next time, you can start where you left off.”
The next time came a year or so later, when the
same swaggie was found dead in a hotel bed, he
having broken into the pub and died in a burgled
four-poster. •
CANON NASH, a displaced shepherd of Vic.
souls (whose alleged sins are wrapped in
mystery).
Photo, by T. Humphrey & Co., Melbourne.
Died recently, in Melbourne, aged 86,
Patrick Reilly, ex-sergeant of the 40th Regiment,
who served in the Maori war, and in India in ’43.
He was also with the 40th during the Eureka
argument, and for many years thereafter said
“Eyes right!” and “Shoulder-whoop” to the
Richmond Rifles.
GLOOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. W. H. Judkins will return to Melbourne by the
Sydney express to-day.—Argus.
Ah, miserable Melbourne ! On your brow
The wrinkles deep are re assembling now 1
Soon, at the Judkins-barlt will silly sheep
Begin to think they’re goats, and lose good sleep
For sins imaginary—on the rack
They’ll writhe ! More joy for Jud—our Jud, who’s back.
Ah, Melbourne, home of Jud and pale Tregear,
Pap Fitchett, and the tribe of Anti-beer,
The Holy Groaners, and “ No country trains
On Sunday !”—still, gay, sinful week-end stains
Do red your soul ! Go, rummage out your black,
And greet your melancholy Jud, who’s back !
Come, let us Jud together, love, and toil
To ’stablish Sabbath Gloom and Boiling Oil
Among the heathen hordes who do not Jud,
And nip all joy and laughter in the bud !
Come, let us now give Common-sense the sack,
And bow before our idol Jud—who s back 1
VIC.
FRANR HENTY.


/ M:
\rc V- :
WkLMM
a
SfliiS
•>’••3
■n
i
■•v, >
• j
£
'M
• "-
fc
-*tfr
N
•m
■
*
.
.
m
* *; ri®
38**'.' V
i':V*¥x
•,
■
J.A.Pe/\F\
CE
> ZW$N‘
m * "- 1
* ; f , v •; &
Vi:,
.
■ ■>
sss
l
t- ±2
WHAT THE WAITER SAYS:
“What I likes about the young' gents, nowawdays—they
til smoke CAMEOS.
9 9


WHAT BETTER
THIS WEATHER
THAN
Peter F. Heering's
CHERRY BRANDY
' S ICED '
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Beauty Culture, the most modern oJ>ne sciences,
is as well the most progressive ; every brightest
intellects of Europe are searching and/'xperimenting to
conquer fresh fields in the realm o^meauty— and every
day new processes, new toilet aul< *re brought forward
to replace those that have vogue before. Mile.
Helena Rubinstein, to who*'''we owe Valaze, is placing
Australia further in by scouring the great
beauty centres of Europe to find the best for her Aus-
tralian patrons. mails have brought plain witness
of ber efforts in the/egard. Whilst nothing, it seems, can
ever quite to Valaze in its beauty virtues, yet
she has added 'further beauty articles that will fitly
supplement this famous skin food. Those who desire
beauty (and their name is legion) will profit by their use.
They are to be seen at the Valaze Institutes, 158 Pitt
Street, Sydney, and 274 Collins Street, Melbourne. [2
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCEPS SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 7, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
This injured old State has at last got a genuine
Real Life Romance of its own. Miss Greville—
she whose brother is a Northcote A.D.0., and
whose privilege it is to tack the mystic word Hon.
before her name, and reside permanently in the
G.-G.’s household—has perpetrated a secret
marriage, her companion in well doing being Air.
Creer, son of Captain Creer, of Watson s Bay.
The deed was done last July ; but for one reason
and another (most of them boil down into the fact
that the ’groom—aß.N.R. officer—is “ waitingfor
his ship,” or something) its announcement was de-
layed. Very luckily for the stability of the Federal
compact, the ceremony was performed in Sydney,
and not, as was darkly rumored in State Blight
circles yesterday, in Melbourne. One shudders to
think what would have occurred had these young
people, in their happy thoughtlessness, patronised
a Vic. divine, and thus been instrumental in de-
positing the ultimate straw on N.S.W.’s already
sorely-burdened hump.
C.-J. Madden, with his Wallace case honors
thick upon him, pervaded the Australia Hotel
most of last Saturday morning—as did daughter
Ruby, who wore a most fascinating blue frock and
numberless dimples. The Vic. legal light left
(with daughter attached) aboard the Mararna at
4 p.m. for Maoriland, there to recover a portion
of the immense mass of grey head-matter expended
by him in the course of his summing-up last week.
General Joab, Commander-in-Chief of the
Hebrew Army, sitting at meat with Adonijah,
heard the infernal noise made by the populace
with trumpets, timbrels, bones, conches, and
(worst of all) their own horrid voices. _ And the
general asked, “ Wherefore is this noise of the
city being in an uproar?” He seems to have
possessed the modest bearing of a soldier who was
also a gentleman—except, of course, when he was
driving a spear through an enemy’s solar plexus
or filling his shoes with the blood of the fellow
who fought on the other side. But he must have
been intensely disgusted when, in reply to his
query, he was informed that the noise was the
joyful outcome of King Solomon’s election to the
throne. “Swine,” muttered the general as he
arose and tightened his goat-skin sash, I must
get me tentward and destroy incriminating docu-
ments.” (There is always at least one incriminating
document. Vainly do X seek to evade that which the
restaurant waitress puts near my plate.) True’s I’m
alive, I set out to write a nitric acid par on the
vulgarity, ugliness and stupidity of our mob’s
welcome to the New Year. And behold the pen
in the hand of thine handmaiden began to write
of the uproar in Jerusalem when Solomon came in
K.C., instead of the uproar in Sydney when 1907
went out. And the whereforeness of this aberration
is not known to thine handmaiden.
On Tuesday night, Pitt, George and King streets
seethed with noise-makers and peace-breakers, who
hadn’t the excuse of whirrooing over the election
of a potentate. There must have been twenty
thousand persons crawling to and fro in the crush,
and of these perhaps a fourth made noises with
whistles, crackers, trumpets, and detonators.
And all the craft in the harbor, from the stately
liner to the cheeky motor launch, screamed and
whistled. In the matter of celebrating events by
means of discords and the making of ugly faces
we are quite the equal of the Chinese. But we
are ahead of our forbears, who celebrated the
discovery of a fresh wild-carrot patch by gibber-
ing and flogging the ground with their tails.
Music, illuminations and bell-pealing, as means
for celebrating, are jxyieti more charming than
yells, crackers, jostle) 'and the distortion of the
already ugly human catchment area.
Clara Butt’s “odd earring” habit is already
being followed with great docility. A laundress
who answered an advt. last week wore one long,
blue-glass earring and one short, pink crockery
lobe-star. The missus who engaged her asked her
affably if; she had lost the fellow of each. She
said, “ No, they are wearing them different now.”
Clara’s earrings were a diamond hoop, and a pink
coral and diamond. At her last concert her gown
made a record in good frockinsr. It looked like
cream radium embroidered around the square
corsage and the foot with rose-pink and silver.
Two cargoes of maidservants from London
haven’t lessened the acuteness of the yearning for
more serving damsel. Missuses are saying that
things were never worse. But in a registry office
lately I met a lady who mentioned that the girls
who came by the Dorset last week have much
the same great expectations as those who immi-
grated for domestic service forty-four years ago.
One of the immigrants secured by this lady in
1864 could only speak a few sentences of English,
one of which was—“My wages is pound a week.”
She came from some part of Ireland where Gaelic
rules. Also, she accepted ten shillings a week.
When she picked up sufficient language she told
her missus that she and all her fellow-immigrants
understood that wealthy young men would come
in shoals to meet the liner and address the damsels
through speaking trumpets, saying, “ Will you
be mine ? ” Some of the most active and eager
would cast grappling irons, and, swarming on
board the vessel, would secure the pick of the
contingent. The fading of these visions caused
the Gaelic demoiselle much sorrow.
Macleay-street, Potts Point, is practically the
Ghetto of Sydney. All the wealthy and well-
known Hebrews live in Macleay-street. But
the organ-grinders and street bands will persist in
going there on Christmas Eve and playing (at
midnight) “Hark the Herald Angels Sing, Glory
to the New-born King,” and the like. Windows
are thrown up, and the objectionable hymnsters
are charged 40 per cent, by indignant Jewry.
And it really is a grievance. The racial character
of Macleay-street being so clearly recognised,
Christmas “waits” should avoid the locality—and
every other locality where human beings that wish
to sleep are harbored.
The difficulty of disposing of Lilianfels, Chief
Justice Dariey’s fine country house on the Blue
Mountains, should serve as a warning against the
building of huge mansions by the squirearchy of
the land. The descendants of the builders
seldom care for the paternal monstrosity, and the
public declines to pay more than 50 per cent,
of the original cost. The builder himself
sometimes tires of his elephant, but, try as
he will, he fails to shift the beast, bome-
times the great whale of a structure becomes
a school or a pious institution or a mighty
hash-tower, and sometimes it is pulled down for
the sake of the material, and the undesirable
suburban terrace is built on the site. Occasionally
the Government’s ear is judiciously breathed into,
and the place becomes a reformatory, or some-
thing of the kind. The heirs of Australia s
wealthy people are wonderfully unanimous m
repudiating the house that Pa built. They prefer
anywhere else. And the man of newly-acquired
wealth prefers to build, if he does build, after his
own ideas, which are often very weird ideas
indeed.
Conductor Slapoffski and family have arrived
in Sydney to take root here. He will run the
Amateur Orchestral Society. As for the other
big musical body, the Philharmonic, after having
Mr. Arundel Orchard wielding the baton (since
Hazon left) at two concerts, with profound satis-
faction to thepublicand to all of the members I have
encountered, the Phils, have engaged a Mr. Joseph
Bradley, of Glasgow, to permanently fill the billet
of conductor. Now, who is Mr. Joseph Bradley?
And was there ever an entirely satisfactory man
named Joseph ? We grow our teachers in other
walks of public life, but the Philharmonic must
run after strange, wild, kilted musicians with
bagpipes in their souls.
No actor in Australia has a keener eye for a
correct stage setting than Julius Knight. He is
a good deal of an artist apart from his acting.
It seems to be a hobby with him to strive after
the exactly appropriate in dress, color, mounting,
and a score of other details ; and mostly, to do him
bare justice, he achieves his aim. But he has
nodded in “The Scarlet Pimpernel.” Take, for
example, that London ball-room scene. There
one finds mingled together the straight, severe
furniture of the Louis Seize period, and the curly-
limbed rococo chairs of the time of Louis Quinze.
Now there was little or no French furniture in
England in the 18th century. Britain’s enormous
Protective tariff kept it out. The same tariff had
served to build up a magnificent local industry,
and the aristocratic Englishman of the day con-
sidered (and rightly so) that there was no foreign
furniture to touch his own for finish and artistic
beauty. And when Froggy furniture did come in,
the styles were never mixed ; and, indeed, it is only
quite latterly (when stuffed chintz-covered couches
and old oak settles are to be found in the “ best
houses,” freely commingling with, and harshly
screaming at Jap screens, Sheraton tables, Chippen-
dale chairs and Louis footstools) that such a thing
has come to be considered even bearable amongst
eclectics.
There’s the most finished little display of felinity
in “ The Scarlet Pimpernel ” between the Mar-
quise de Tournai (Susie Yaughan) and Lady *
Blakeney (Ola Humphrey). Harry Plimmer, as
the Prince of Wales, introduces the ladies. They
have already met, but on pretence of replying to
his Highness, they stick daggers in one another.
As each polished point goes home the ladies
curtsey the prince, in black velvet and
silver and the azure of the garter ribbon,
standing between them. Miss Vaughan, in
grey velvet, does not touch her draperies as
she" sits on her foot and fires off her polished
malignities. She brings her white small hands,
pendent, to the level of her waist as she sinks.
It’s a marvellous piece of experienced posing.
“ Oh, ma-dame,” smiles Miss Humphrey as she
sits on her foot and turns the boneless perfection
of her neck away from her enemy, smiling a smile
that has in it a pound of concentrated alum.
The dressing and color scheming in the piece
prove Julius Knight’s art sense. His blue-grey
brocade coat with rose-pink knee-breeches and
waistcoat, in the second act —oh, he does look a
bower-bird in that combination! And every
woman in the audience wants the lace handker-
chief he exploits between finger and thumb.
Talk about the nice conduct of a clouded cane !
That hanky of costly lace is made to say fluffy
things while Julius is pretending to have less
brains than even the Georgian Court favored, and
that was only a thimbleful at best.
Singer Kilburn Heron and Mrs. have gone by
the Miltiades to S’Africa with the Steele-Payne
Co. on a nine months’ engagement.
Mrs. G. B. Lewis, writing to friends in Sydney,
mentions that “ A Spree in Paris,” the comedietta
written by herself, music by her son, is to be
played by her in Dublin.
The Freddie Shipmans, now in India, have
struck bad luck. After booking all dates in
Colombo and India for Jessie Maclachlan, the
Scotch thistle sings out from Westralia that her
health won’t permit her to continue her tour.
She goes right on to Bull Land.
The J. C. Williamsons will most likely be back
here early in March, arriving in the new liner
Asturias. The Spencer Bruntons will be fellow
voyagers.
Mr. Leslie Moore, only son of Mr. S. W.
Moore, Minister for Lands, was married last
Thursday to Miss Sylvia Whiting, of “Astolat,”
Randwick. The bride is one of a bunch of
unusually pretty sisters bearing Tennysonian
names, such as Enid and Elaine.
Another wedding of Christmas week was that
of Mr. Claude McKay, a Sydney journalist, to
Miss Dorothy Sydney, of the Julius Knight Co.
Mr. Orral Humphrey, brother of Miss Ola
Jane of that ilk, has been engaged by Mr. J. C.
Williamson, and will be here about April, pro-
bably with Margaret Anglin. Report says the
young actor is gifted. His portraits show him to
have a look or two. He is very like Kyrle Bellew
at his best.
Seems that the mention of the engagement of
Miss “Tot” Paton to a littery gent has caused
some confusion amongst the friends of Miss
Payten on account of the addition of the words,
“noted tennis-player,” after the announcement.
Miss Paton, who marries Mr. Arthur Adams, just
plays tennis, whilst Miss Payten (with the y )
plays it as an expert.
Mrs. Harry Rickards’ diamonds, blazing in a
box on Saturday night at the Royal, nearly
blinded the stalled oxen. Clara Butt and consort
shone in another case, and the Continental lyre
Edwardes filled a third frame. The Butt song
birds leave to-morrow with pianist Sykes for
Auckland.
Paderewski’s usual Christmas cable to Messrs.
Marich, Southwell, Lemmone, and Cutler, of
Paling’s, was up to date. The Hairy One must
mean to come back here.
The typical Englishwoman tourist of the
French comic papers has pervaded Sydney of
late, Lady Trafalgar—call it Traffle-gar, or stop
out on the mat. She came along on the liner
Victoria, and has gone to Maoriland or some
other place of worship. Lady Traffle-gar’s opinion
of “these dreadful dependencies” was unfavor-
able, and was delivered at public tables in a voice
like a busy day in a gramophone factory.
The exodus of Sydney visitors is in full exo.
Mr. David Anderson and daughter Nora have
gone to Maoriland, so have Mrs. (Dr.) Taylor
Young and her children. Chief Commissioner of
Railways Johnson and colleague Kirltcaldie are
packing their grips for the same country.
Hobart has taken droves of our well-known per-
sons, Dr. and Mrs. Sly and Mrs. Quesnel amongst
them.
Mr. Frank Clayton, who for a time was acting
manager of the Bank of N.Z., in Sydney, was
married in this capital, at Christmas, to Mrs.
Coom, widow of Dr. Coom, who used to practise
in Auckland.
Maoriland has an invincible lady tennis player
in Miss Nunnelley, who by gathering in the M.L.
singles championship, recently, won the title for
13 years in succession. Miss Nunnelley also
helped Miss Baker to win the M.L. doubles
championship. She will possibly be a member of
the M.L. ladies’ team which is to invade Sydney
shortly.
A more humorously astounding brace than the
past and prospective spouses of Anna Gould,
U.S.A. millionairess, it would apparently be hard
to find. Count Boni de Castellane, having for
years run a giddy riot on Anna’s money, was duly
divorced by her last year. Then the Prince de
Sagan, one of Boni’s cousins, came along. This
Prince is described in the exclusive European
circles he affects as “ the modern Alcibiades.” He
is said to be most alluring. Like Boni, he
is accused of numerous “establishments.” He
is also charged with paralysis, and is alleged
to be “totally devoid of spinal marrow.”
So Anna Gould fell violently in love with him,
and decided to marry him. Boni, the ex-husband,
taking a retrospective interest in his wife’s doings,
attended a requiem mass in Paris one Friday, and
“ waited outside ” afterwards for the Prince de
Sagan, who was also there. On the Prince
emerging, Boni “ sprang upon him.” Having
got his relative in the gutter, Boni leaped
high and joyously in the air, and descended
on Mr. Sagan’s prostrate form; also he
kicked the prince, and stood upon him.
The prince appears to have remained during
the whole process torpid and inactive. In regard
to the most absorbing feature of the busi-
ness (viz., how Anna viewed it), the cables remain
exasperatingly silent. Will she still marry the
Prince ? Or may not Boni’s decisive action tip
the scale of his misdeeds, and win him back to
favor. In push society she would inevitably
chuck the discredited de Sagan and cleave proudly
to the victor. And after all the Castellane de
Sagan crowd seems to be just ordinary push
society, with the addition of titles and much
money,
In the New Year’s Day issue of the S.M.H.
there was an extraordinary outburst of advertise-
ments offering infants for adoption. Seven babies
altogether were evidently superfluous. “A pretty
refined baby, aged 12 months.” It didn’t smoke,
drink, or chuck its nurse under the chin. It
was offered for adoption to some kind lady. Two
of the two-months-old infants to be given away
were advertised as of “ gentle birth.” This inti-
mation may deter the man on the land from
adopting them with a view to sacrificing them to
the Cow.
Talking of babies: Two royal infants —Olaf
of Norway and Asturias of Spain—have per-
vaded the English press of late to such an extent
that the most mushy child-\vorshipper longs to
exclaim “ get thee to a nursery —go.” The King
of Spain’s son is only a few months old, and the
Norway kid is five, yet the mighty atoms have
taken up more space in print than did the
conference of the overseas Premiers. Crowds
of loyal English used to wait to get a
glimpse of the little Spanish olive who
was always asleep when his nurses wheeled
him outside the palace gates. His “pram” is
followed by troops of snapshotters, who can only
snap nurses and vehicle. London Punch had a
cartoon of Olaf (Queen Maud’s son) of Norway
pushing the little Spaniard’s pram, and saying
“ I’ll show you round, old man. I’ve been here
before.” To which Asturias replied, “Right, I’m
with you.” The humor is so fine that one can’t
see it with magnifying goggles. Also, in the
same classic paper, there’s “more royal corres-
—a letter from Baby Olaf to Baby
Asturias quite as good as those written by the
bladder-headed infants in our Town and Country
to Aunty Snooker.
Queen Ena, who is just turned twenty, walks
through the illustrated press in tailor-mades, big
hats and furs, and doesn’t look a day over 45.
Alphonso, or someone else, ought to tell her to
discard fur boas and stoles. No woman with
square shoulders and an inch of neck should wear
such gear.
Mrs. Tetrazzini, the new Covent Garden star,
has told an interviewer that ardently as she has
desired to hear Melba and Patti, she has only
been able to do so on the gramophone, and that
quite lately. Awhile ago Tet. was singing at
the Tivoli in San Francisco what time Melba was
warbling at the Alhambra in the same town, but
neither lady was ever free to go to hear the
other.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane:—
The vice-regals broke out from their Christmas seclu-
sion and cheered up the meeting of the Toowoomba
Race Club ; after whic , her capable Ex. made a round of
the hospitals, and sent a bit of Christmas comfort to the
local Girls’ Club.
Brisbane’s own Boxing Day races were chiefly notable
for the notables who weren’t there; and Miss Marie
Narelle, in a gorgeous grey and purple confection, had to
carry nearly all the burden of being a celebrity on her
own shoulders. Of the people who only have a, number
on their collars there were plenty, however, and money
flowed freely towards the tote ; so that the club voted it
a great day, and showed a good profit at the end of it.
Business in town during’ the week was the best for 18
years ; the streets on Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday
evenings were marvels of confusion ; railway traffic
trebled itself; tram receipts rose higher and higher till
they got tangled with the stars ; and rooms at seaside
resorts are as impossible to obtain as cooks who can cook-
There was a big gathering of the clan Collin, on Christ-
mas Day, when that worthy skipper, the father of the
flourishing W. Collin and Sons, sugar shippers, celebrated
the 50th anniversary of his wedding. Mrs. Collin is the
mother of five daughters and four sons—or is it four
girls and five boys ? —and possesses 26 grandhildren.
The first vows were plighted in Newtown, Sydney, and
the journey to Queensland was taken in ’62.
Bishop Stone-Wigg, temporarily patched up, takes his
bride of three months back with him to New Guinea.
They only make a short stay there, and then start out for
Europe and the Episcopal Conference. The North
Queensland Bishop and Mrs. Frodsham (never strong
since her buggy accident, some years ago in Townsville)
have already left for Sydney, also bound for the Great
Fog.
The death of 17-year-old daughter Evelyn made this a
sad New Year season in the household of Judge and Mrs.
Virgil Power. The bright girl had been at school in
Sydney, had just finished, and was on her way home,
meeting her mother and father in Brisbane, when she
developed typhoid, and died in the Mater Misericordiae
Hospital.
Their Exes last week gave a damp entertainment, that
was intended to be a garden party, but which culminated
in an umbrella exchange, at Gabbinbar. Lady Chelms-
ford scintillated her chilly smile in a familiar robe of
champagne gauze.
The Fijians’ cricket at the Exhibition Grounds on
Wednesday, and again on Saturday afternoon, provided
some good entertainment. The so-called “ Princes” were,
of course, the centre of an admiring group of shes in the
grandstand. How is it that the educated black is such a
draw with a certain class of woman ? Neither of the
murky peers struck one as anything out of the ordinary
nig.
The said “ Princes ” have proved themselves no small
potatoes at billiards, and have taken dow’n the best of
the United Service Institute, of w’hich Club they are
honorary members. Apropos their initial visit, a slight
mishap occurred. The U.S.I. and the Pioneer (the she
club) occupy a terrace of two, on the North Quay, with
entrance up a common stairway”, divided by an iron rail.
The two ebonies hurried up the wrong side, and landed
with some velocity upon the Pioneer verandah, where
several old ladies were intent on tea and small talk.
There was a shriek of surprise, and after the
Fijians had fled in tweed suits and disorder, an English
visiting dame said, “The worst of these out-of-the-way
places is that you never know’ w’hen the blacks will be
upon you.” Kadavu, by the w'ay, is said to have been
highly incensed at being put up at the same hotel as the
rest of the team.
News comes by JJie-pfesent week’s hraH- of several suc-
cessful appearances of Mrs. Gilbert Wilson inLofidon.
Tunbridge Wells, and Henley, with a rather more import-
ant engagement at Bath, where she took the place of
Mrs. Louisa Dale, at short notice, and was most
favorably received. The Bath critic speaks in high
terms of the even quality of her voice and its beautiful
training. Ida Wilson’s entire training, by the way, was
by her mother and aunt, Mesdames Palmer and Robert
Wilson. No one i the know gushes over an .JEolian
Hall recital, yet r soprano got one of the only two
encores of the aft irnoon, and some nice press criticism.
There is a marrying mania on at present, and on New
Year’s Day brides w’ere to be seen “as plentiful as tabby
cats —in point of fact, too many ” for the she-reporter.
Noel Hunt, son of Mrs. Hunt, of “ Edge rong,” and a
cousin of the Edward Drurys, w 7 as wedded to Miss Harriet
(Baby) Webb, of Toowoomba, on the same date.
Marie Narelle, looking quite her old jolly self, is the
guest of Mr. and Miss O’Shea this week. Her only com-
plaint is of the excessive fattening propensities of the
Queensland paddocks.
Mr. and Mrs. G. Inglis Hudson and their daughter
returned by the Omrah from their round-the-world tour.
They will settle in Sydney, having sold their Queensland
home.
Startling tales are being told in the medical world,
and there is a State investigation into the recent death of
a professional dress-cutter. Two well-known members
of the profession are figuring in the affair, which is
attracting as much attention as if it were a Fijian
cricketer.
[An interesting item about someone who is leaving
Brisbane for Sydney per motor has to be left out, the
name being a mere smudge which defies interpretation.]
■ Yours Affectionately,
AKENKHI.
Vi
Pool- little beggars ! They can’t escape
Cow even in school. Inspector Henderson, of the
Taree district (N.S.W.), proudly announces in his
annual report that education has become practical
in his part of the Cow country. “ The old-time
calculations of billions and trillions have van-
ished,” and he quotes questions given to show
how the teachers have “risen to the new arith-
metic.” For instance :
Three cows entered for the butter test for Taree Show.
A save 451 b. of milk on 3'B test; B gave 601 b. milk at a
3 - 2 test ; and C 381 b. milk on a 5 test. Which cow won ?
Then they have “ Observation Lessons,” in which
they are required to note things they have seen,
and comment upon them. For instance:—
Father bought our poley cow at auction for £lO. In
nine months we got the money back for her milk.
But the “comment” in that case wasn’t that
dairying is a fine-paying business, which doesn’t
require the sweating of little, immature children.
It wasn’t even—“ Father would have been able to
buy us new boots, only the landlord put up the
rent.” Still there was a pitiful little wail in the
actual “ comment ” : “ But it is hard work.” Poor
little beggar !
The Tory who wants to sweat black and
yellow labor in the Northern Territory cultivates
the idea that the coast of the country is a swamp,
and the inlands a drought-stricken wilderness. A
sporty representative of Fat—one of the squatting
Duttons—tried lately to be the pioneer motorist
through from Adelaide to the Territory. And
did drought and raging dust-storms baulk him ?
Not much ! Instead, he had hardly got his motor’s
nose into the country of the alleged eternal
drought when he had to turn tail and fly back to
S. Australia on horseback on account of the per*
sistent rains and swollen creeks. It was a fine,
slashing criticism on the cheerless Tory ifea
about the Northern Territory. /


:RrconnmprD»
IBy Tnt'LANCtf
nirpicAL
• Faculty * *«■
' 0-o=o
We - would -like.
yoD-w -}rx-<y
- nrx
cxh oor-expense
cx
3
Rj
JDer\d - •
hpr • Dqqk lct= -
T? ftCD ■TaBA"*
* o-oo-
JOUBERT & JOUBERT,
Flinders St., Melbourne.
CLAUDE HEALY & CO.,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. E. JOUBERT,
Perth, W.A.
MIEM3
irooD
AWell
l H&Ve a Good Figure,
I b/\\&£xrirv£} j
\ Onlv /
* &
“S» 1
i
485
D
O
o
/A
WLSffi
f FOR THEM’
• AND m
SEE w
THAT YOU
Lthem^J
/
r
F.I.A.T.
T
A
R
R
A
N
T
THE FIAT MOTOR GARS
The Greatest, the Simplest, and
Most Adaptable and Reliable Car
yet produced.
A GREAT RUSH
for FtI.A.T. CARS has set in.
FIATS ARE CHAMPIONS
for 1907-8.
They won the Targa-Floria Cup,
the Grand Prix, and all other
notable events in Europe.
Sweetest Running-.
Greatest “Coers.”
Models of Perfection, Durability,
and Strength.
Selling Like Hot Cakes.
New Shipments Every Week.
We are SOLE AGENTS in Victoria.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.,
104-112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 6, 1908.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
The divine Melba is credited with having been
an unexpected help to harassed parents in this
State. The reigning Voice has been inundated
with minor voices who want to be told that they
possess a vocal claim to her crown of fame. The
lady is distressingly unbiassed and painfully
candid, and disposed summarily of the soaring
hopes of Miss Daedalus. Whereupon sundry
penurious papas and mammas whooped with joy
at the debacle of their nestlings’ expensive aspira-
tions. It’s a fallacy—that idea that the modern
relative, parental or otherwise, will cheerfully
sacrifice itself in accordance with primordial
precedents just to amuse the young.
A letter from London and a reliable writer
talks about Tetrazzini:—
The new prima donna would be an acceptable gift to a
tallow-factory proprietor. She is huge and oleaginous to
an extraordinary degree. But she sings deliciously. Her
voice is liquid and warm, and possesses natural agility
and capital training. And she acts with great fervor.
Her acting, though, is not quite good art. It is like a fit
of hysterics compared to Calv C’s stormy subtlety, for
instance. In short, it’s entirely Italian grand operatic
acting—full of glaring incongruities and false effects.
Critics are emphatically admiring that aspect of her art—
to me, and many others, it is a disadvantage. After a few
experiences of it, one becomes so irritated that one’s enjoy-
ment of her vocalisation is lessened. The sensationally-
inclined want to uphold her as Melba's peer. She is not.
Melba’s voice, with its incandescent charm and its
witching technique, is unapproachable. Then her mag-
netism, her strength, her alluring immobility make her
unique as a personage. Melba as a singer is a classical
divinity. The new woman is a superbly gifted operatic
soprano—and there you have the difference.
Archbishop Lowther Clarke sails in the Mon-
golia with a few of his children, for London. In-
cidentally he’ll inspect Jerusalem and other hard-
baked areas. Canon Gnash sails for London,
accompanied by his pet vestryman, a week or
two later. The Canon goes in search of
his good character, which he expects to
recapture in all its pristine beauty and innocence
somewhere in the Respectable Country. The
favorite vestryman goes into the ring to hold the
eloquent middleweight’s towel. It had been
arranged that Mr. Gnash was to travel by
the Mongolia, too. But, on consideration
of temperaments and respective weights,
it was decided to let the large pre-
late have the Mongolia all to himself, and the
Canon follows in another ocean express. It has
not yet been announced whether the Gnash party
—for the purpose of keeping its eye on the Arch.
—will disembark in the Red Sea and pursue the
objective gaiters across Holy territory.
The summer peace and the blissful bite of the
mosquito enjoyed by Mount Macedonians are dis-
turbed just now. The Lands Department decrees
the demolition of the pine forest reserve that
crowns the mount. Owners of su mer houses
clustered round about have raised 4(°yell. “The
Department’s ’’reasons are chaotic, fear of bush
fires being prominent. Residents contend that a
reliable ranger would be a safeguard. A ranger
was a fixed institution for years, until he was
squeezed out of existence by economy. Lawyer
Bob Whiting energetically heads a residents’
petition—a plea for the life of the forest. He is
trying to induce other householders to personally
subscribe for the “ up-keep” of a ranger.
A London divorce case, reported under the
heading of “ Australians Abroad,” should interest
a few Melbourne folk. Dr. William Pitt Palmer
(great-nephew of the original William Pitt, Earl
of Chatham), got quit of his wife, Emma Maria,
and also got quits, more or less, with the military
gent who caused the trouble. That is to say, the
wicked Majah in question was branded by the
virtuous Judge as a “skunk,” and was charged
£2OOO for damages to the petitioner’s feelings.
But the husband and the Majah are purely
English matters. It is Emma Maria who
dates back to Melbourne. Sixteen years ago, when
she was sweet and 16, her aunt, from Em land
—Lady Strickland, or somebody—came along and
adopted the beauteous Emma Maria Doria, and
took her off to the country where William Pitt’s
descendant married her. The Dorias came of old
Italian stock, and had reached the dignity of a
Family Feud, with a Cardinal at the bottom of it,
as the result of which the Family verted to Pro-
testantism (by way of insulting the Cardinal), and
Emma Maria’s father fell in the social scale until
he was only a State-school teacher at Carlton.
This so preyed on Papa Doria’s mind that he
threw down his billet and fled. But in the mean-
time he had articled his son to Matthew Davies,
the legal adviser of the Land Boom, and the
clerkling made enough money in boom speculation
to enable him to provide his beautiful young sister
with a handsome equipment when auntie adopted
her. That was 16 years ago.
It seems only the other night that “poor old
Zelman ” was in the d.c. at the Princess’s, listen-
ing to “ The Flying Dutchman.” Sara Anderson
and her husband were in the back row of the
circle, and during one of the intervals Zelman
happened casually her way. Whereupon the
singer arrested the wandering gaze of the esti-
mable musician, and reminded him of her name,
and where they had met before. Evidently the
attentions of this somewhat Divine Sara were
grateful to Alberto Zelman, senior. He warmed
to her companionship, and, after wishing her
adieu about 15 times, he invariably wandered
back to the lady with something new to
say—or something old to say over aga'in. It was
the manner of him, of late years, to sandwich
snatches of conversation between layers of
departure and return, so to speak, and nobody
seemed to know for certain whether he knew he
was resuming an abandoned conversation when
he went back to it, or thought he was meeting
the other person for the first time that day. Dear
old Zeiman ! He had a little of real genius, and
the wholu of the eccentricity to which it is
entitled. One thinks pleasantly of him as
popping out of his grave, now and then, to pick
up a remark that he had dropped, and restore it
to the wrong owner.
The doctor son of Crown Prosecutor Sam Leon
is booked for matrimony, at the end of this month,
with Irene, daughter of the Earles, of “Elrae,”
Richmond.
Youthful-looking Mrs. Lazarus (formerly
Watson) jaunts to Colombo, with a wealthy
third husband in adoring train. Which recalls
that the eldest daughter of cricketer W. L. Mur-
doch (he also married one of the Bendigo Watsons)
achieved a husband in London a few weeks ago.
Miss Smith, from Queensland’s sheepy acres, is
with the Tooraketty McLeods, making final pre-
parations for her wedding. The man, whom it is
etiquette (and probably fact) to call “ happy,”
is son of Geelong solicitor Belcher, The
Australian bride and bridegroom both travel far
to the church of the ceremony. The bridegroom-
to-be is in Montevideo (S. America), and journeys
to Valparaiso to meet his bride. The damsel has
brought her brother about 1100 miles already to
take her to Maoriland, where she will be packed
aboard the boat for the Vale of Paradise.
The Spruce Myth has just passed through
Melbourne —with all the glory of bag and tackle—
for a fishing sojourn Sorrento-wards. It is gener-
ally understood that any right-thinking schnapper
or flathead is proud to be landed by the elegantly-
appointed arrangement which has a bit of squid
at one end and a Spruce Myth at the other. He
does the thing in such style, you know. Glancing
at the ocean in the sunshine, one feels that it
doesn’t offer fishing opportunities commensurate
with the extent of his preparations. Spruce
Myth ought to get measured for an ocean of his
own.
T’other Sunday evening the Chief Judicial
Personage and his Lady, week-ending in the
coolth of the hills, were packed into a reserved
compartment and locked there away from the
frantic crowd of Edwins and Angelinas who rush
the mountain trains. That was nice and peaceful
till they reached the station where their motor
waited them. Then there was no one on hand to
unlock the carriage door; no one to recognise
their imperious demands in the chaos of yells from
singing picnickers. Wildly but vainly waving a
learned and elaborate judgment out of the window,
the Chief and his sympathetic spouse were
carried many mountainous miles beyond their
station and their motor ere they got their freedom.
They had bought their privacy too dearly. Better
to have herded with a mob of common ordinary
citizens, trusting to luck for the absence of a
concertina. One can’t be very dignified in a
Sunday excursion compartment, but it’s still
harder to be dignified when one is locked-up like
a common person who has got the rising of the
Court.
A Melbourne man of means tells a story of early
days, when he was in a clerkship earning a screw
of something near 7s. 6d. a week. He and three
kindred souls owned immaculate dress suits, hard
cheek, some ingenuity, and an insatiable desire
for dance —but no wherewithal for the necessary
swell ticket. With a swagger ball rolling its way
in Melbourne or P’ran Town Hall, the quartet
would dress with fascinating correctness, and turn
up about the lax hour of 9.30 ; they would leave
hats and coats at a near-by pub, and calmly stroll
up the portico steps and mingle with the smoking
Johnniedom of the corridors. There’d never be a
ghost of a demand for tickets.
On one extraordinary occasion one of the Four
was asked for “the honor of his company” at
Government House. The attached triplet, by
force of habit, accompanied its fourth, but dis-
covered that four on one invitation didn’t go in.
The Invited One sailed in magnificently. One of
the Left, in a frenzy of disappointment, saw a
hope. The German band was entering. He
grabbed a baize-covered cornet from one of the
blowers, and marched in disguised as a second
trombone, leaving the outside two to their
Waterloo. This is the story of the reminiscent
capitalist, of course. It doesn’t follow that he is
a bit more truthful than Thomas Bent.
Gouriet, of “The Blue Moon,” who wrecked a
muscle in his leg, has had a successful operation
in Adelaide. The surgeon has patched up matters
with the muscle of a wallaby, the bounding
quality of which animal should be good for the
Gouriet dancing. Gouriet is adored by his
“Crocodile” girls. The accident happened on
the stage during a hop. The sufferer was carried
off by the girls, to the applause of a house which
thought it new fooling ; but the girls had to come
on again, and some of them were weeping their
hardest all through the following dances, whereat
the audience thought the new joke was being
carried too far. Every principal in that company
has been damaged during the Australian tour. It
has cost a small fortune in repairs.
The “ Rupertswood ” folk did a gorgeous squire-
and-loyal-tenantry act on New Year’s Eve. There
had been a ball of some 700 guests at “the
House.” Then a supper was served to the Any-
bodys in a huge marquee at midnight, and there
a wedding cake was cut and handed round by
daughter Phyllis, who promised a wedding gift of
some £lO to the maiden who “got the ring.” A
damsel named Agnes, who lives on the estate,
found the mascotte, and secured the £lO.
Vivian Price, the burly offspring of “ Fire low
and lay ’em out,” sailed for India in the last mail-
boat. The young man is an officer in the Indian
marine service—a section of the Imperial forces
which seldom gets an opportunity to cut the
throats of its more inept brethren. Whilst here,
the young man had a high old time. His papa’s
old friends —Dowager Janet amongst them—feted
him no end. (There’s nothing more conducive to
enthusiastic liking than long absences!) About
a baker’s dozen of appreciative spinsters are
awf’ly chagrined at his nonchalant departure.
It’s bad enough to watch a bachelor vanish over
the far horizon, but to see him go unharmed—that
adds insult to omission !
The Fitzpatrick couple have punctuated some
lengthy peregrinations with a stay in London for
a couple of months. Mistress Connie is the first
cause. She has been ill with pneumonia, caught
in Fogland, but has convalesced so successfully
that they go on to Vienna for a time, which time
the copper-crested lady will spend buying gar-
ments of miraculous cut and appalling cost. The
gallant captain and his spouse don’t return to
Australia before the end of this year—possibly not
until later.
Beatrice Holloway joins Meynell and Gunn very
shortly to play chief cheap-sentimentalist in
their dramas of inhuman interest. Little Beatrice
is becoming an admirable stage frocker, by the
way, and has her place amongst the Rosses and
Irelands of dressy mellowdrama. Which is saying
something to her credit. As far as art of clothes
went, the Bland’oltian ladies set a standard (and
maintained it) which lots of enormous salaried
immigrants have never reached.
The newest cricketer worth discussing, young
Gerald Hazlitt, is the only son (aged 18) of stage-
manager Jimmy Hazlitt, who terrifies the sen-
sitive super, and galvanises the indolent employee
on behalf of J.C.W.. His mother was a musical
Miss Summ rhayes in the days of her spinster-
hood.
Two children of Israel join hands and hearts
anon: Rabbi Lenzer’s clever daughter and
a nephew of Nat Levi, M.L.C. It’s fixed for
early in February.
Mrs. Bland Holt rejoins her affectionate Joe
very shortly, after a curtailed stay in furrin’ parts.
Himself has been ailing some from an abscess in
the ear, or a similar unpleasantness* Possibly
the mates will harness up their theatrical team
again within this year.
Our latest innovation in these parts is a women’s
band which is open to engagements, and—that’s
where the novel feature comes in—plays well
enough to deserve them. Clever Daisy Balfour
conducts the melodious menagerie.
“That,” said the girl with the loud voice and
the impertinent headgear, speaking impressively
to the young man who walked with her—“ That
is Sir Billiam Veal ! ” The old man in question,
crawling slowly ahead, held in one hand a parcel
containing threepenn’orth of fruit, in the other
an unmounted walking-stick—price, one-and-
three. “Is it really ? ” murmured the young man,
duly impressed. “ Wonder what’s ’e’s doin’ down
here? ” “ Why, he’s walking down from Toorak
to get the P’ran tram. For exercise, y’ know,”
said the girl. “ W’y,” said the young man, “he
don’t look so much, does ’e ? Might just be an old
cove cornin’ home f’m work, to look at ’im.” The
old man stopped at the gate of a tiny house,
and took a fresh grip on his bag of fruit;
extracted his latch-key and opened the tiny front
door, shutting it after him. The girl looked at the
young man defiantly. “ Well,” she said, “ it’s as
like him as two peas, anyhow ! ” A person passed
in a greengrocer’s cart. The young man, un-
smiling, turned to his companion. “See that
cove?” he asked, proudly. “Well, y’mightn’t
think it, but that’s the Guv’nor o’ Noo South,
down ’ere for a trip.” The girl glared at the
young man, and made a gasping sound which
suggested anger and impatience and a lack of lan-
guage with which to express herself, and the
young man grinned rudely, and made a remark
about the weather.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide
The New Year S.A.J.C. meeting, at Morphettville, was
chiefly remarkable for temperature and temper. Only
the sportiest women came out of their summer sleep, and
even they were anything but amiable about it. They
said the weather was a disgrace to the country, and what
would the Labor party be doing next, they wondered.
Even the beautiful £27 dividend that spread a bland
smile on the freckled features of a few did not rectify
matters, and the meeting broke up in gloom—the sub-
stance that is cast over the country district when the
alderman dies.
So many sprightly old pioneeresses took advantage of
Mayor Varley’s invitation to attend the Commemoration
luncheon, at Glenelg, that the authorities had a fairly ex-
citing time finding the necessary elbow room. The
Mayoress and Premieress distributed the festive turkey
among them in the Institute, what time their husbands and
brethren were tasting the same fare, punctuated by the
conventional number of unnecessary speeches, in the
Town Hall. But the old dames were quite equal to the
occasion, and did a deal of speeching on their own
account, in spite of the fact that every one of them
arrived in this State—then a Province (look well at the
dear word)—in the dim and distant years between 1836
and 1840. One of the ancients proposed a fluent vote of
thanks to Hiram Varley, as the first Mayor to recognise
the fact that women had had a hand in the pioneer busi-
ness, not to mention a foot or two and a head.
But the roll of the pioneers shrinks fast. Now out of
it has dropped Mrs. Litchfield, whose husband, Captain
Litchfield, was the first Inspector of Police in South Oss,
and one of the pall-bearers at the funeral of Colonel
Light—he who laid out the city, with C. C. Kingston’s
father as assistant.
Ail those unfortunates who must be fashionable even
in their holidaying are flocking now to r-. n garoo Island,
where, 70 years ago, our grandfathers piu .ied their little
tents under the impression that they had struck Aus-
tralia. It’s a jewel of an isle—in patche- ; but it is only
quite lately that the patches have been discovered. Port
Victor, for nearly half-a-century the favorite haunt of all
summer gadders, has a dangerous rival at last.
The Jackson-Coles wedding happened the other day, but
it happened quietly, without any splash or splendor. As
bpth victims dwell at Kapunda, in the wilds, they were
married from the paternal Speaker Coles’ residence, at
Glenelg, and only relatives assisted at the knotting.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
Prahran, the Melbourne shop-keeping
suburb, has just discovered what sort of mayor it
has. Parliament entrusted the enforcement of
the Health and Pure Foods Acts to the municipal
councils, without seeing that the councils repre-
sented the people, and it seems that Prahran’s
mayor, when standing for election to the council,
coolly told the ratepayers :
Please understand when you elect me you are not to
get any help from me in connection with these Acts, nor
are you to get the benefit of my services.
The ratepayers now discover that, while his
Worship, gent, one, won’t act for the council, he
does act for sundry alleged offenders against those
laws which the council has to administer. In
other words, while as mayor it may be his duty
to set the law in motion against adulterators
and other nuisance-mongers, as gent, one he has
undertaken to see that the law, after it is set in
motion, doesn’t hurt his clients. It seems about
up to Bent, or the Board of Health, or somebody
to take a hand in this argument between the
mayor in one capacity and the mayor in the other
capacity.
“Billy T.” : I see Sydney lately had a
case of a man charged with selling beer in a lane.
In Melbourne this is quite a common deal. For
instance, the pub most convenient to my house
and home has a God-sent lane on its right, run-
ning into a small street in front and a blind right-
of-way at the back, and all the hot Sunday long
that blessed and beneficent lane is crowded with
the red-faced brigade of beer porters, who lift and
carry the long-uns with uncomplaining industry.
The beers are dealt out through a convenient
window in exchange for tray-bits, and if the army
of the law swoops down on bikes the police find
only a lot of tired young men sitting in the deep
shadow of a desert lane, discussing the immigra-
tion policy and modernism in theology. The law
has not yet made it illegal to be adjacent to
licensed premises after hours, or to lean against a
pub on Sunday, consequently that lane is a sure
thing.
In order to check the inrush into the Com-
monwealth of immature liquors, an enactment
was made some time ago providing that before
any whisky, rum or brandv could pass into con-
sumption, a certificate would be required that the
spirit had been matured for at least two years in
wood. When this valuable regulation was issued.
Private Enterprise, which had entered into con-
tracts and had stacks of immature whisky in bond
or on order, squealed vigorously. So the date of
the proclamation was deferred until January 1,
1908. During December, Private Enterprise has
been rushing bonded stocks through the Customs
at such a rate that for Sydney only the amount of
duty collected for the month jumped by £220,000,
£lO,OOO being collected on stimulants on Decem-
ber 31 alone. Other ports showed similar excite-
ment and energy, so the Australian populace has
a lot of untamed whisky to drink yet.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
TEL. 47. AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION. ESTB. 1862.
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident
261 George Street, SYDNEY,
MODERATE RATES. G. B. SMITH, Manager.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES in
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustrnlia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€i), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
DENYEKS' Emasculators
45/-
EACH,
For Castrating Perfectly Horses, Bulls, etc.
Crushes before it cuts. Hsßmorrh&ge impossible.
DENYER BROTHERS)
281 George Street (opp. Hunter St.), Sydney
and at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
DAVE BOWMAN,
Leader of Labor Party, Queensland.
It being suggested that many Chinese are
still smuggled into Australia, Sydney Telegraph
goes, for re-assurance, to Mr! Sun Johnson, a
Celestial who runs a Chinese-Australian paper.
And, of course, Mr. Johnson is very re-assuring
indeed, and can’t imagine the possibility of any
of his fellow-countrymen being smuggled into
Australia. And his re-assurances leave the
matter exactly' where it was.
Premier Bent is sending no less than
three special commissioners to represent Victoria
at the Anglo-French exhibition at Shepherd’s
Bush, a somewhat out-of-the-way suburb of
London. The Victorian exhibits are rather
less bulky than the commissioners, who are
all fat. If Taverner, the fat Agent-General,
were thrown in, the four would crowd the
Victorian court to suffocation. The three special
commissioners are absolutely uncalled for, and
Bent is busy trying to make a virtue of the
unnecessary. This is the moment when the tax-
payer should rise and howl against Tommy’s
system of assisted departure, and his method of
providing Paid Holidays for Prosperous Sup-
porters.
For the last half of 1907, Queensland had
a surplus of £198,276 to help to provide for public
works and to reduce the old deficits; and Premier
Philp, being interviewed, said he was very well
satisfied indeed. But it was Kidston’s surplus,
not Philp’s (Philp has just arrived in office), and
if Philp is so well pleased with Kidston’s surplus
three questions arise: (1) Why does he want to
shove Kidston out and take his place? (2) Why
does he promise, if he is returned to power, to go
in for a mighty burst of expenditure which will
knock all possibility of a surplus into a cocked
hat ? (3) Why, when he was in office before
with a bigger revenue than Kidston enjoyed,
didn’t he occasionally go in for having a surplus
himself instead of wallowing all the time in the
bog of insolvency ?
A Sydney advfc. (4/1/08) throws an in-
structive sidelight on the Newcastle trouble :
■WANTED, 50 COMPETENT WHARF LABORERS
VV FOR NEWCASTLE.
Wages 48s. per week of 60 Hours.
Apply This Morning,
THE NEWCASTLE AND HUNTER RIVER
S.S. CO., LTD.,
F. J. THOMAS, Manager.
147 Sussex-street.
Which works out at the munificent wage of a
shade over per. hour for humping goods suffi-
ciently heavy to arouse blind jealousy in a steam
crane.
Premier Bent’s Board under the Vic-
torian Small Holdings. Act has held its first divi-
sion of land acquired by compulsory purchase.
The Board had 2852 acres to dispose of, and 3126
people lodged applications. All these except 194
the Board found to be desirable settlers, but even
the hardest spreading out of the land couldn’t
supply farms for more than 249. This left 2683
desirable settlers out in the low temperature.
Some of the would-be settlers travelled over 100
miles per horse or bicycle to appear before the
Board, although they knew they had but a 13 to 1
chance of a selection. In view of a rush like this,
the price of privately-owned land must keep going
up, and, every time it goes up, Bent’s resumption
system becomes a greater fool of a system than it
was before.
Strong evidence of the necessity for
compulsory military training, without any exemp-
tions other than on account of physical unfitness,
was furnished by the Argus report of the Victorian
Naval Cadets’ week’s service on the old Cerberus,
at Geelong. There were 157 youngsters, who had
given up their holiday, but just in the middle of
the proceedings “15 boys had to leave for their
homes on account of their indispensability to
their employers.” What sort of employers
these w»ere, whose business depended on the
presence of one small boy, Heaven knows;
but it show's clearly that the Fat em-
ployer—or a good many of him, at any
rate—thinks precious little of the defence of his
country in comparison with the matter of address-
ing a few circulars or sweeping the shop floor.
When service is compulsory all round, then the
employer will have to put up with the loss of his
junior clerk three weeks per annum, for he won’t
be able to get a junior in his place who isn’t under
the same disability. Then perhaps he will sweep
the floor himself for once.
A remarkable outbreak was that of one
Fred D. Badgery, who wrote last week to the
S. M. Herald about the Australian capital.
Among other wild assertions, Badgery said that
Dalgety and Bombala were both too cold, and
then he cordially recommended Exeter, about
2400 ft. above sea level, and with no water supply
worth mentioning, as the ideal spot. (Exeter’s
one qualification seems to be that it is only 91
miles from Sydney, so that F. D. Badgerv’s city
would annex all the trade.) He said it was quite
obvious that Bombala and Dalgety were only sup-
ported because they were impossible, and the
people who supported them did so to produce a
deadlock (in which case the late Alexander
Oliver, of the N.S.W. Civil Service, on whose
recommendation Soutnern Monaro was selected,
must have been a pretty incapable character or
a pretty bad lot, though Badgery hadn’t the
courage to say so). Badgery also said that “all
must know ” that a fast train service between
Dalgety and Melbourne is impossible, and he
reckoned that rules it right out “in Victorian
interests.” Yet, as there would be only one steep
pinch in all the distance from Melbourne to
Dalgety, it is hard to see why the trouble is any
greater than that of maintaining a fast service to
Brisbane (with Ben Lomond to climb), or to the
West (with the Blue Mountains in the way).
Anyhow, if the Victorians aren’t weeping about
the slowness of their prospective train to Dalgety,
why should F. D. Badgery weep? Also. Badgery
wanted the capital put somewhere about
Cootamundra (he would greatly prefer Exeter,
at Sydney’s back door, but he admits that the
Constitution rules it out), professedly out of a
tender regard for the interests of Queensland,
though if he wan really so broken up about the
interests of Queensland, a capital near Armidale
would seem to fill the bill much better. And, on
top of all, Mr. Badgery regretted that so few
people view the matter from a “ broad national
standpoint.” It is really wonderful how mauy
Sydney dealers and traders mistake a National
Park or Cook’s River standpoint for a national
standpoint.
Brisbane got a gentle reminder of its early
history the other day when, in making excava-
tions near the corner of Queen and Albert-streets,
a leg-iron, weighing nearly 91b., was dug up.
Perhaps the leg-iron thought, from Governor
Chelmsford’s high-handed action in dissolving
Parliament to oblige a Premier who had been
defeated on almost every division, yet wouldn t
resign, that the convict days had returned, and
that it might be wanted again.
THE ODD COPPERS .
It is believed that the Federal Treasurer has power to retain the unexpended portion of the Commonwealth's
quarter share of revenue. —Daily Paper.
THE STATES : “ We'll sec about that.!”
Some enemy of the Australian motor tyre
industry put a knife into its back during the
tariff struggle. The duty on tyres is 25 per cent.
—and it ought to have been 35—but with every
car that comes into the country the importers
can fetch one complete set of tyres absolutely free
of duty. This means, on present figures, that
1000 sets of tyres, worth, roughly, £20,000, will
now come in free to help to cut the throat of the
Australian tyre-making firms. To be hoped that
the Senate will note these rents and gaps in the
Australian industrial defence works.
Professor Frederick Starr, who is a well-
known American ethnologist, has spent 15 months
among the Congo natives, and has written a
book, “The Truth about the Congo,” in
which he tries to greatly upset former
notions. Instead of atrocities lie says he
found the negro population far happier
than he had dreamed possible ; living in good
houses, dressing in good clothes, and accumu-
lating property. He found a fleet of 80
steamers, some of them 400 tons burden, on
the Liver Congo, a railway going well into
the heart of the country, and the telegraph
even ahead of the railway. He says that
Britain, which wants the Congo, and is de-
termined to have it for the completion or
the Cape to Cairo railway, is responsible
for lying statements regarding the treatment
of the natives, and that “ no misrepresenta-
tion of the condition of things at present
in the Congo State is too scandalous for
official Britain.” It sounds like the Boer
story all over again.
In the final rough-and-tumble at the
end of the session in S. Australia, the Leg.
Council scored one. After, for years past,
paying out of loans what ought to have
been paid out of revenue, Premier Price
and Treasurer Peake proposed to pay for a
scrap of works out of revenue. “ Eh, what ! ”
said the Fat House, in agony. ‘ ‘ Make
us pay taxes to spend on works, instead of
borrowing and making the future pay —pre-
posterous ! ” And the Assembly didn’t tell
the House of Fat to keep its nose out of
the purse, but hung the matter up, so that
Fat “ might not lose its right of criticism
and amendment.” Now, Philp, up north,
proposes to saddle Queensland with the
same sort of Fat-elected Council —a body
that won’t represent the people, but yet
will stiffen its back and say, ‘ We are an
elective body, too ! ”
N.S.W. is going ahead with the com-
pletion of the Sydney Art Gallery—on loan
money It suggests the feckless servant girl
going to the money-lenders for cash with
which to buy trinkets.
Sir John Coloinb, a British naval expert,
writes to London Times to deprecate any
mention of “so terrific a catastrophe as the
abandonment of the two-Power standard” in
naval strength. But he might as reasonably
speak of the terrific catastrophe of the ultimate
operation of the law of gravitation. It is as
certain as that £2 is greater than £1 that Great
Britain cannot much longer maintain a two-Power
standard navy. One Power alone, the United
States, could, if it chose, surpass the strength of
the British navy in five years. Ship-building is
primarily a matter of men and money, and unless
Great Britain can maintain a two-Power standard
in them it must always face the prospect of being
outstripped in naval strength.
‘‘ How it is proposed, for example, to
provide the capital necessary for the collective
ownership of everything?” asked the Brisbane
Courier the other day, by way of proof that
Queensland should vote solidly for Chronic De-
ficit Philp. It seems a rather remote question
somehow. If Philp gets in it will probably, a year
or two hence, take Queensland all its time to find
out howto provide capital to buy boots with. A
horrible pawner of the public boots is Philp.
A Brisbane firm, encouraged by the Aus-
tralian tariff, has started a factory to make
wheels, shafts, spokes, etc., out of that crow’s-foot
elm which, until the other day, was despised and
rejected. Director of Forests McMahon thinks it
likely, as hickory is getting scarce in America, that
a large trade in the elm timber will be worked up
with that country, which is something to look
forward to, provided the export trade is in manu-
factured goods. On the other hand, the prospect
of feeding some more foreign factories with
another slice out of our great natural resources
leaves this paper cold and unimpressed.
AND HE GAVE HIM A BOB.
“ Helped at my election, did you I Well , I can’t
say as I remember your face, but I recognise
your breath.”
The Bulletin isn’t sure which arrived
first —the small, quaking New Year, or Sands’
portly N.S.W. Directory for 11)08, in its coir
tident red-and-gold cflver. At any rate, it /'as
possible to look up a man’s address on the
day of the first month, and it was good/6 have
this year’s directory, and the informij>mn as to
where the man is, instead of last yej/’s book and
the knowledge of where he isn’t^JQh 11 Sands,
Ltd., are to be congratulated J&c their prompti-
tude—also, for their Directcy/i which is well up
to the high standard of fj/mer years.
THE SUFFRAGETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’re a highly-favored nation,
And we’ve got our share of pubs,
And no man-destroying mammals
Roam our forests or our scrubs.
We’ve got wallabies and wombats,
We’ve the platypus, the flea,
And an anthropoid arrangement
Which they call a “ C.M.G.”
Yes, we’ve wallabies, etcet.,
And some others we forget,
But we haven’t got the creature
Which they call the “ suffragette.”
She’s as wily as a weasel,
She’s as vicious as a stoat,
And she’s madder than a monkey
’Cos she hasn’t got a vote ;
She’s as limber as a leopard,
She’s as vain as a coquette,
And she loves a lively shindy
Does the saucy suffragette.
Though she isn’t in our set,
We would like one for a pet;
But we fear our lawful missus
Might say things one would regret.
She’s a discontented creature,
And she’s always in a fret,
’Cos her “ rights ” are not acknowledged
In the Govkrnmf.nt Gazf.ttk.
That neither Bill nor Thomas
Can give points to Sue or Bet
Is the absolute conviction
Of the London suffragette.
And she smokes her cigarette—
Snaps her eyes of blue or jet—
And she brandishes her brolly
Like a Horse Marine cadet.
Then the frantic suffragette—
Quite ignoring etiquette—
Charges magistrates and bobbies
With a brolly dripping wet,
And a politician lately
Had to hump himself and get
Down a dark and winding stairway
To escape the suffragette.
You may very safety bet
There’s a vacancy to let
In the cracked and crazy cranium
Of the silly suffragette.
She is not among our fauna—
And of gratitude a debt
For this blessing we are owing—
But she’s very often met
In the wilds of Western London,
Where the bobby spreads his net,
With much patience and discretion,
To ensnare the suffragette.
Oh, the awful suffragette !
Let’s be thankful that as yet
We’ve not seen that strange creation
Which they' call the suffragette.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.


SOLE AGENTS:
WTO
These Highly Artistic Pianos
have been proving' their
excellence in Australia for
the past 40 Years.
To such good purpose have
they done it, that we find it
difficult to Keop pace with
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are real beauties,
there being a poetry in their
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, whilst their case-
work is very chaste.
As to their durability, we
cannot speak too highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full g'uarantee.
We sell these Pianos for
cash or on easy terms, and
our Catalog'ues are yours
for the asKing.
W. H. PALING <& CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
Satisfaction Guaranteed
in our
£3/3/-
SUITS.
Write for Patterns and
Self-Measurement Forms.
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
7/
More Business,
and How to get it.
The problem of every business man Is how to Increase the volume
of his business without decreasing the percentage of his profit.
If you are interested in getting more customers and in making
regular customers of the occasional ones, the following simple plan of
business extension will interest you.
U Make a list of the people in your neighborhood who could easily
buy from you, but who do not at present.
2. Keep a list of those who buy from you sometimes, but whose
regular trade you desire.
3. Whenever you have a dull hour or two, write one or more of
these people a letter, telling them of something you have
that will interest them, and requesting them to call.
Simple, isn't it ? Requires nothing but a
Briton.
Typewriter and a little patience. You supply the patience, and we will
supply the Briton, and show you how to use it.
This simple but direct form of advertising can be applied to any
business or profession, no matter how small, and it has made thousands
of pounds for the progressive business men of Australia.
If it pays others it will pay you, and under our free trial plan it
costs you nothing to investigate.
You cannot lose anything —you are almost certain to win—doesn't
business judgment say — Write to-day.
Southern Sales, Limited,
284- George Street, Sydney (Box 1700).
18 Queen Street, Melbourne,
7 Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.


TO SAWMILLERS.
TWO HUNDRED MILLION FEET OF
RIMU, NEAR WELLINGTON!
200,000,000
feet Rimu
(chiefly), in
New Zealand,
near City of Wellington, FOR SALE on a
Royalty Basis. Five miles from Upper Hutt
Railway Station, on Main Road. Railway
freight to City 1/1 per 100. Excellent timber-
clean, medium size ; high, but easy logging
country. Wellington City and locality sure
market for whole output.
Sawmiller must provide and erect his own Mill
and Plant to cut ten million per annum. Vendors
to put up bridge over Hutt River, and open
up about six miles of tramway on a 1 in 25 grade
(formation only) to give access to heart of bush.
Twenty years license. Full cutting must begin
within one year.
Strong individual or company who will handle
whole proposition with modern machinery and
large output preferred. Upset Rimu Royalty
1/6 per 100. Net average nroflt to miller should
exceed 3/- per 100.
Fuller particulars and plan from undersigned.
Prompt application necessary.
Apply by letter onIy—
“RIMU COMPANY,”
c/o Charles Haines, Box 476, Wellington, N.Z.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Amtalian Agents—Messre. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The second Test match was a dull, grey plod by
two heat-baked and fly-tormented teams. Play spread
over six days, and yet not 1500 runs were scored
in all ; thus the average was under 250 a day.
That means cricket taken to the ultimate point
of seriousness. The wavering fortunes of the
match supplied the only real element of interest.
Beginning in a poor, pottering fashion, Australia
was only good enough for 266 on a perfect
wicket. Noble (61) was the chief contributor,
not only in actual runs but in morale. As
though overawed by the score, England went in to
potter even more painfully in a brick-kiln atmosphere,
which was assuaged by frequent relays of drink. The
score progressed at the rate of about 10 runs per drink.
At first the English potter seemed like to
amass a huge score, staying in a week or so.
But after making 127 for the loss of one wicket,
the side fell off and was only good for a total of 382.
That left the extra-dreary team with a laboriously-
earned advantage of 116 runs.
' The game in the second innings was a dreary
repetition of the first. Australia at the start seemed to
promise well, making 126 for the loss of Trumper. Then,
following sturdily the British example, the team began to
trend towards the pavilion, and four wickets had fallen for
162. It looked England’s game sure at this stage, but Mac-
artney and Armstrong pulled it out of the fire, and at six
for 303 it looked just as surely Australia’s. Fortune
again was capricious—probably the lady was deadly
tired of the whole hot, dusty proceeding—and with the
Australian total 397, it was anybody’s game, with perhaps
a slight advantage to Australia. England was left 282 to
win, and 310 days (not counting Sundays) to get them in.
The task was successfully accomplished in two, a close
and exciting finish giving a victory to England on the
post by one wicket.
* * * »
“0.K.”: Went to the M.O.C. ground for an
hour in the afternoon of New Year’s Day, and found an
immense crowd immersed in the joys of “correct”
cricket. Australia was batting, and somebody had just
been run out. leaving the score at 197 runs for five
wickets, after four hours of actual play, without counting
the luncheon and tea adjournments. A stout, placid
gentleman, full of enthusiasm and reminiscences, in-
formed me that the play thus far had been strictly correct
on both sides. Theoretically, I approve of steady batting
in a Test match, but as a sightseer, thirsting for a sensa-
tional display, I complained to my stout friend that the
“stubborn defence” of Noble and Ransford (the new-
comer) was*deadly dull to watch. He spoke with grati-
tude of its correctness. It was the game. With the
thermometer at 100° in the shade or thereabouts, and the
chance of a weather change in their favor, the policy of
the Australians was to keep the other fellows sweltering
in the field whilst the score was being piled up at the
dreary rate of 50 runs an hour. My elderly stout friend
cried “ Another maiden ! ” with the ardor of an amor-
ous young man counting the girls at a picnic.
Ransford had scored eight in about half-an-hour when
the long, stubborn innings of Noble came to an end. He
got caught out for 61. Then Cotter walked to the
wickets, and sundry irreverent critics remarked, “Now
we shall have some fun ! ” The stout man, however, pre-
served an anxious silence. Evidently “ fun ” was not in
the correctness of things. Cotter hit 17 runs in 10
minutes. Two previous batsmen got out for 16 and
10 runs respectively, but they had taken a long time
in making their scores, and were much more correct
than Cotter, the troubled stout gentleman told me. I
put in a plea for incorrectness. I talked of figures. He
said that figures w'ere not everything. I ventured to
question the wisdom of the English bowlers in offering
special temptations for Cotter to “let out” and score
rapidly, seeing that he w'as one of the do-or-die sort.
If hitting was his only effective policy, why not try to
bowl him something he couldn’t hit? I asked. The
short-winded wiseacre withered me with a scornful
glance as he replied : “ They are laying traps for him.
He’ll get caught out directly.” All the same, I
w'ondered why Cotter had been entrapped into making
more runs than the tw'o correct players who were num-
bered with the slain. Just then another bowler—
Crawford —was put on. His manner denoted an inten-
tion to dispose of Cotter, if possible, by other means than
kindness. He w r as not going to feed the enemy.
More incorrectness. Crawford paused to rub the
ball in the dust, so as to get a better grip of it,
whereat the crowd yelled “ Go on ! Don’t waste
time.” Patient to a fault, whilst Noble and other bats-
men had been practically keeping the score at a stand-
still, these vociferous barrackers objected to the least
delay on a bowler’s part. But their clamor ceased imme-
diately, for Cotter was clean bowled by Crawford. Seven
wickets for 240, and only 15 minutes left for play. I
walked home marvelling at the patience with which an
Australian crowd endures the dulness of Australian batting
in a Test match, as contrasted with the crowd’s delight
when the rare, occasional Cotter scores 11 runs in an over
by “ incorrect ” play. Not that I deny the correctness o
caution. Genius in cricket is an infinite capacity for
taking pains, and it is in this capacity that the Austra-
lians, as a rule, show themselves superior to the English-
men. But they are the better players only when they
make the bigger aggregate score, and therefore I can see
no sense in “feeding” a “slogger,” on the chance of
getting him caught in the long-field.
* * * *
Hobbs seemed to lose his wicket on the second
day of the second test as the result of an absurd time-
wasting pause for refreshments on the field. This was at
5 o’clock, or earlier, and the men had then been only 40
minutes at work subsequent to their afternoon-tea
adjournment. Drinks were brought out from the
pavilion, and all the players rushed to the cup-bearers—
Hobbs among them. He had scored 83. His eye was
“in” when he left the pitch. It was “out” when he
went back to face Cotter. The first ball bowled him.
Braund went out to join Hutchings, who certainly put in
some hot batting during the next half hour. At 5.30 an
Englishman carried forth some more refreshment for
Hutchings, who left the heel taps for Braund. And then,
at seven minutes before closing time, another lot of drink
was carried out to the fieldsmen, as though they couldn t
have waited seven minutes ere retiring from the field to
bathe in lemonade 1
» ■» * *
Hard to say how many runs Hardstaff saved
from the Australian score last week by his fleetness.
From his position of deep mid-on (or what not) with a
running range of 30yds. or more to right and left of him,
the unwelcome little'stranger rushed himself in the way
of ever so many balls that would have reached the
boundary if he hadn’t sprinted. so fast. A valuable
fieldsman is Hardstaff, and batsman. When the boys
round the railings christened him “ Hotstuff ” they had
taken his temperature in both of his capacities.
*• Wisden ” —in private life Mr. Henry Luff, of
London, he whose “ Almanac ” is the Ruff’s Guide and
Df.brett of cricket—is in these parts, and gave aS. M.
Herald representative (30/12/’O7) some stimulating criti-
cism on the great game here and in England. Asked
what he thought of the Australian team, Mr. Luff
pondered, and then advanced the unshakable opinion
that “ they were (sic) a fine combination.” Noble he held
to be “one of the greatest cricketers Australia had yet
sent to England.” After this “ Wisden ’’ warmed to his
work somewhat, took a deep breath, and stated that “ in
the late match the Australians made a plucky, uphill fight
for victory.” Also “Jones’ team was distinctly a young
one,” and “the whole lot were triers.” Coming to
Jones the unwell, this British authority opined tha.t “ the
absence of their captain would be a severe handicap to
the team.” Summarising—“ Both teams were potent of
great possibilities.” Ranging afield “Wisden” next
touched with a sure hand on vital matters in connection
with the game in England. “ The old stagers,” he opined
acutely, “ could not live for ever.” In support concrete
examples were offered, and the point was driven home
effectively thuswise : “ Grace and others must make way
for the younger generation.” Coming from Mr. Luff, of
such information as the above is absorbing—
infinitely more so than when uttered (as it has been any
time during the past three weeks) by Mr. Mugg, of
Hunter’s Hill.
Touching Victorian “amateur” Armstrong’s
refusal to play for his State because he couldn’t get an
extra half-quid a day as a star performer, an old cricket
manager notes the fact that Armstrong is not the first
international star who has refused to shine for the mere
glory of his province. Trumper had not visited Victoria
for two years until the other week, when he had the Test
as well as the inter-State match in view. Neither had
Hill troubled to trip to Victoria for two years until the
Test was on the board. Darling missed the last S. A. v.
Vic. in Melbourne. Noble, on the other hand, has in-
variably “ played the game” for his State, in Melbourne
as in Sydney. And there are others who have refrained
from posing as professionals in an amateur way.
* * * *
Cricket and creed do not go much together, as
a rule ; but in Adelaide they can pull- in double harness.
That city has probably established a record, by inviting
across a “ combined team of the Churches of Christ of
Victoria ”to play an inter-State match with S.A. The
visitors put up the usual moderate cricket of a friendly
game. Then the S.A. Christians went in. When the
first two men had scored 150 and 100 respectively, the
fielding side kicked, and the batsmen retired. The pair
that followed were just as good, and when each of their,
had smitten a not-out half-century, the game gently
broke up for tea and theological discussion.
One of the features of Saturday’s first-grade
competition in Sydney was the miserable downfall of
Burwood in the first innings. The deadly bowling of
L. A. Minnett and McPhillamy, combined with the keen
fielding of the rest of the North Sydney team, got the
whole of the formidable Burwood XL out for 82. Minnett
got four wickets for nine runs, and McPhillamy three
wickets for 18 runs. So keen was the play that Burwood’s
top score was P. W. Docker’s 24. North Sydney, going to
the wickets, gathered up 157 for the loss of six wickets.
That was where the ball scored. The bat had
its little innings at Birchgrove Oval, where Glebe
smashed and drove Balmain in a frightful manner, scor-
ing 320 for a loss of seven wickets, of which Bardsley
made 107. Theßedfern men also made 319 before Peter-
sham got them all out, and Gordon took advantage of the
absence of the Paddington cracks to slog them for 299, G.
Jordan making 102.
* * * *
Crick’s turf stock-in-trade was offered at auction
in Sydney last week, but only three of the lot—The
Desolator, Metaphor, and Ossian—found buyers ; last-
named, which was going to win one Melbourne Cup “by
a street ” brought 100 guineas only. Somebody wanted
Collarit for 1350 guineas, and his owner offered to do
business at 1700 guineas, but the buyer wasn’t taking any.
A while ago Crick refused 2600 guineas for Collarit.
Borodino, from the same stable, which Crick offered to
back against any other horse named for next Victorian
Derby, was passed in at 1300 guineas.
The sweets of Heiro’s success in Tatts. Carring-
ton Stakes were only for the “ stable ” and a few favored
connections who invested largely at from 20 to 1 down to
twelves, and made a huge haul (for these times). Despite
the big sum “ specked ” on Heiro there were five shorter
priced starters (Lord Merv, Cissi, Banzai, Artful and
Isos), mainly because of Heiro’s failure in the Flving
Handicap on Boxing Day, when some severe knocking
about at the start marred his prospects completely.
Heiro belongs to the weightiest (physically, arid
perhaps financially) member of Tatt.’s Club' ring—
Mr. Geo. Woods —who scales over 20st. Of
23 that lined up, Lord Merv and Cissi were most
wanted, at 2 and 4 to 1, as named. They were in front
together at the turn for home, but both died away com-
pletely afterwards. Lord Merv failed just where a horse
that (like him) had not raced for twelve months might
reasonably be expected to. Heiro is of a family of
gallopers, by Ruenalf from Mora, and five years old ; he
cost present owner 55g5., and spent a season at the stud
last year, Kyeadgerie’s third under a big penalty stamps
him as worth watching for the Autumn’s hig things.
Maranui’s fourth was quite the best run the Maorilander
has shown in public, and possibly means he may yet act
up to his sensational track work.
* « » »
Last week’s Bulletin suggested the possibility
of Connolly’s ancient Blue Spec winning Perth Cup, and
thus crediting his owner with four consecutive triumphs
in that event. The likelihood of the similarly-owned
Westralian Derby winner. Post Town, succeeding in the
Cup did not occur to this journal, as Connollv’s alleged
published announcement that Post Town was sore, and
an unlikely starter, carried more weight than statements
from that source are likely to carry again. The fear of
the scratching pen brought the drawer of Post Town in
Tatts. sweep along with the nice little morsel of £2OOO to
nothing, and Post Town duly won in record time (3mins.
29sec.), and easily at that—a remarkable recovery from
the infirmity of a few hours before. Post Town was bred
in N S.W., is bv Positano from Molly Masham (imp.), and
cost Connolly 210 gs. This is the first tune Westrahan
Derby and Cup have been won bythe same horse.
True Light, winner of Sydney Tatt.’s Cup
(2 miles), at Randwick, New Year’s Day, qualified to be
written one of the few genuine stayers Australia boasts.
His manner of gathering Moorefield Handicap, few weeks
before, suggested this, though he fell badly from grace
through his subsequent very poor display at Rosehill,
but in the A.J.C. Summer Cup, two weeks ago, True
Light shaped well enough to won back the confidence of
astute watchers. Hence the great weight of speculation
that caused his price for Tatt.’s Cup to tighten from
eights to threes on the course, though he did start at
fives because of the placing of a belated commission for
Newcastle-owned Electron, which ran third. Gaby was
second ; thus were the three favorites in the prize-winning
positions. Time (3min. 29|sec.) has only been beaten twice
in the history of the race—by Long Tom (3nun.
29isec.) in 1904, and Overdale (3min. 38sec.) a
year later. There was that in True Lights
finish which prompted the view that he might
have done better had it been wanted. Biggest dis-
appointment of the struggle was Summer Cup winner,
Vanadium, who, heavily backed, never looked a possible
winner from end to end, thus endorsing an opinion that
the Summer Cup was a badly-run race, and had it been
over again Vanadium would not have finished among the
first four. Quality generally of the 11 starters for Tatt.’s
Cup was much below Randwick form, and only equal to
average suburban fields. #
Consider the triumph of Positano as a sire ; his
progeny have, this racing year, won Metropolitan, Mel-
bourne Cup, V.R.C. Derby and St. Leger, Caulfield Cup,
Boulder Cup, Kalgoorlie Cup, A.J.C. Derby and St. Leger,
Doncaster Handicap, Sydney Cup, A.R.C. Birthday Cup,
W.A.T.C. Derby, Perth Cup, Hobart Cup, and Sydney
Tattersall’s Cup.
* * * *
The mighty have fallen. Sydney Cup winner
—Street Arab—of four years ago, was among the entrants
for Ascot (Sydney) pony handicap, Saturday Jast.
Poseidon’s short spell at Windsor has ended ;
he w'ill probably be working at Randwick this week, with
a view to figuring in the w.f.a. events of the autumn.
On the same tracks a likely strong rival of Poseidon’s—
Mountain King—is already going strong.
No previous Christmas and New Year’s racing
at Randwick has seen a more promising three-year-old
than the filly Neith, by Holbrook from Cleopatra, and
she is undoubtedly the very best of Holbrook’s get so far.
At Warwick Farm, a month or five weeks since, Neith, in
her first race, made the others look ordinary, every-day
hacks, so easily did she scoop the coin ; and in A.J.C.
Highweight Handicap, last Saturday fortnight, nothing
had a chance with her. Later (Boxing Day) she appro-
priated Christmas Handicap, beating 17 others. But
best of all was Neith’s second in Tatt.’s Welter, New
Year’s Day. She carried lOst. 71b., and conceding from 21b.
to 421 b. to 11 opponents, should beyond question have
won. She got away very badly, however, though she
finished faster than anything else in the hunt. Her
manner of running places Neith in the light of a probable
good stayer, and she is bred that way—by a Lochiel horse
from a Goldsbrough mare.
* * * *
That well-performed old ’un, Lucknow, who
earned considerable money for different owners and often
provided something of a “ turn up” for Christian Moses,
was shot at Greenwich Park near Goulburn (N.S.W.) a
few days ago. A broken shoulder was the trouble.
Lucknow was between the shafts of a buggy, belonging
to a toiler in the vineyard, up Bathurst way, before he
raced.
Telegraphed information re The Snail’s success
in the Imperial Stakes at W.A.T.C.’s meeting last week,
almost wholly unbacked, reminds that he is an ancient—
over 12 years old—and was regarded as at the end of a
long term of slavery when he left Sydney for the West.
Hanlan, the most scientific of scullers, died at
Toronto (Canada) last Saturday, aged 52. He had been
rowing publicly since ’72, and from then onwards for 12
years he never tasted defeat. But on August 16, 1884, the
mighty thews and but moderate skill of Australian Bill
Beach proved too much for the mighty skill and but
moderate thews of Canadian Eddy Hanlan, and the latter
left the sculling championship in the neighborhood of
the Parramatta River, and returned disgustedly to his
native ice-patch. He made three gallant but ineffective
tries at regaining the lost championship, and finished up
as a teacher of sculling in Toronto.
* * * *
When Relph’s Invincible was racing Arthur
Davies’s elegant speed shell, Fairbanks, The Bulletin
pointed out that the one boat was a cruiser, and the
other, to all intents and purposes, a hydroplane. The
idea of Relph’s wonderful creation being called a cruiser
was scoffed at, but when last week the energetic Charles
ran it up to Newcastle through a nasty jobbly sea, gave
an exhibition, and then came home again through the
same water, arriving in time for breakfast, and
making an average speed of about 18 knots an hour for
the whole journey, he proved that Invincible is a cruiser
right enough. A fast cruiser, no doubt, but a cruiser,
and an ocean-going one at that. And that trip does
Charles Relph’s boat more credit than all the fast races
he has won down the Harbor. Anything with an engine
attached to it may streak down the Harbor, but that run
to Newcastle and back proves that the Australian en-
gineer can not only turn out fast boats, but good, sea-
worthy ones as well.
* * * *
Dick Tresidder has hied off to Maoriland to
battle for the sculling championship with Webb, and will
begin his training on the Wanganui River this week.
Meanwhile Webb is getting into form ; and already
Maorilanders are pondering over what will happen if the
ML. oarsman keeps the title. It was delirium when
Webb triumphed over Towns on the Parramatta River ;
next move is more than likely to be chaos.
New Year’s Day saw no less than ten people
rescued from the undertow while surf-bathing at Manly,
and of this number mighty life-saver C. N. Purcell, the
local Surf Club’s stipendiary rescuer, brought in
seven. The same day saw three hauled out of the
surf at Bondi by Messrs. Love and Ormsby. Now, just
consider what a howl there would be against any other
form of sport or amusement that had a record half as bad
as this. Why, it’s worse than horse racing, and all the
other sports combined. Even mining at Broken Hill is a
safe and healthy business compared to it, and for fatali-
ties it can be compared only with cock-fighting—mostly
one rooster gets killed. The question is if some special
steps should not be taken to combat this surf madness—
the long wash of lunacy upon the shore.
* * * *
The ocean yacht race between Port Phillip and
Tassy, t’other week, supplied one competitor, the Ellida,
with a bad experience. From the time it lost sight of
the Victorian coast till its return, five days later, land
was not once sighted. Skipper Poole and co. never got a
spell, and were hove-to for some 50 hours. The Ellida is
a tight little St. Hilda craft, and up to the time the dis-
turbance struck it, was well within its time allowance,
and had every chance of a win. The attraction of the
race was the Rudder Cup, a 50-gUinea prize, presented by
a ’Murkan yachting paper. The Thistle won, and the
favorite, Rambler, was disqualified for doing the final lap
under engine power. The Thistle is Sydney built. It
was constructed in 1886 by Ford, senior, of Berry’s
Bay, and designed by the owner, P. W. Creagh, and Walter
Reeks, the well-known Sydney marine architect. It was
then called the Bettina and was the first of the large
truck cabin or coach-house boats built in Sydney.
Rigged as a sloop, it gave a good account of itself in
various cruising matches. Mr. Crea ;h sold it to Mr.
Shannon, of Geelong, who converted the boat into a
deep-keeler, and rigged it as a v iwl for deep-sea work.
At the time of winning the Rudder Cup the boat belonged
to Mr. E. Newlands.
“ Snell ” : I camped next a tough with a thick
ear and a dented nose during an afternoon spent at that
dreary enfcertainiiienfc, Wallace versus Wallace. After lie
had heard the petitioner’s evidence, the tough spoke up.
« Lumme !” he said-“ she’s beat ! Where’s ther sense in
fightin’ on ? Why don’t ther referee step in atween’em
’n’give a decision ?”
« * * *
The letter which arrived in Melbourne last
Thursday from Squires, announcing that Australia’s
smitten‘gum-tree was eager to enter the ring once
more, created blank amazement in those places
where the thick-eared most do congregate. But
a brief month ago Squires was reported to have
himself admitted (in explanation of his second
defeat) that he had “lost his punch,” and meant,
in consequence, to drop pugilism and return to mining.
The fighting man’s “punch ” is a thing which once mis-
laid may never he regained. Its loss means the
loss of nerve, dash, quickness, initiative, and every other
asset that makes for formidableness in a ring cham-
pion. A fearful and protracted hammering is liable to
separate the bravest of battlers from his “punch.”
Sometimes—though not often—a single crashing blow in
the right place will do the trick. Thereafter the injured
one is never the same man again. His position is compar-
able to that of the steeplechase jockey who has had a really
awful fall, and seen a friend or two sent to glory in his
immediate vicinity the while. (Kipling’s famous Aus-
tralian story truly diagnoses the mental and physical
condition of a horseman with a ruined riding “ punch.”)
If Squires, after publicly admitting his affliction, once
more enters a ring and wins out against a worthy
opponent, it will be a marvel.
* « * ■»
Not content with wrestling honors, the blastife-
rous Hindu or Pathan has entered the boxing ring now,
and on Saturday night last Sydney Gaiety Club saw a
wild and savagelv-fought struggle between “ Ranji ”
Burns and Jaffer Allie. Jaffer dealt out stoush heavily
during the first round, but in the second he drove his
countenance hard several times into Burns’fist, and de-
moralisation set in like a locust attacking the vegetation.
If Jaffer could have got a pull of bhang he might have
worried through, but there was none on the premises,
and Burns stood up, refreshed on whisky, and smote hard
and steadily, till at the end of the fifth round the son of
Shem intimated that he was satisfied. But he threatens
to come again.
• * * #
George Horder made a big bole in the prize-
money at the Newcastle (N.S.W.) cycling carnival
recently, and gathered in £lOO in three nights. But
biking is still on the rocks, and big prizes for the person
with the long legs who rides the dizzy cobweb are few
and far apart. As the Lord Mayor of Turkey remarked
to the Earl of Greece, “ It is a Sabbath day’s journey
between drinks.”
* * * *
Harry James and C. B. Kellow made a trial
spin over the Sydney-Melbourne roads on Friday and
Saturday last. It was not an attempt at record breaking,
but merely a private trial, a preliminary canter over the
course. But it demonstrated that the run can be done,
and the motorists got to within 150 miles of Sydney well
on time, when Keilow’s fine Talbot car broke down. The
official trial will be made in about a week, when the new
detachable rims will have arrived and be available for the
trip.
# * * *
Isaac Moses is very much in the minority in
Sydney Tatt.’s betting ring, nowadays. The writer only
counted three of him at recent A.J.O. and Tatt.’s meet-
ings. Patrick Moseses have the business almost to them-
selves.
THE HOLY GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Hurstville Presbyterian Church, last night, the
Rev. F. Barclay preached to a large congregation, the
theme of his sermon being based on the test-matches. —
News item.
The preacher stood in the pulpit high, and preached, in a
holy' voice,
Of the Game of Life we all must play, and the Captain s
final choice :
“ And if, my Brothers, ye bat not well, but swipe at the
ball, what then 1 ”
The choir uprose and answered straight: “ He will hit
you to ley. Amen ! ”
The preacher spoke of the deadly slips and catches the
Devil made :
“Oh 1 keep the ball of Temptation down, but hit it—
don’t be afraid !
And see that your feet are straight, dear friends, as
steadily mounts the score.”
“ Or, if you don't” so sang the choir, '‘you’ll he given
out ‘ leg before.’ ”
“ Many are called,” the preacher said, as the pulpit he
wildly shook ;
“ Many are called, but oh ! few get up, so keep your eyes
on The Book.
Each record’s writ on a golden page with an angel’s
flaming pen.”
The choir replied: “ Your averages , look after ’em.
Amen.”
“Oh! Brothers do let the ‘off’ stuff go when the Devil
rocks ’em in,
When they whip like lightning from the pitch and the
outfield wears a grin.
Yea, bide your time till a straight one comes, then punish
it full and fair.”
"Amen, amen!” the choir boomed out, “but be sure
that there’s no one there ! ”
“Lastly, my friends,” then the preacher said,and his two
arms rose and fell,
“ When at the crease be firm on your feet, and see that ye
smite right well.
So when the end of the innings comes, free from regret
and doubt ”
“ Carried his bat! ” yelled the choir. “ Amen ! hundred
and five, not out ! ”
N.S.W.
KODAK.
INDIGESTION.
“ Digestion is the Process op the Assimila-
tion of Food, whereby the Body is
Nourished.”
Indigestion, or dyspepsia, invariably arises from
improperly prepared food, hasty eating, over-in-
dulgence, fatigue, and exhaustion during the hot
weather, breathing foul air, excessive brain work,
and more frequently from cares and worry, which
exhaust the nervous force and weaken the organs
of digestion. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
not simply a purgative which forces the food out
of the body, depriving the stomach of its nourish-
ment, and thus starving the system ; they contain
the essential properties that are temporarily
lacking in the stomach through weakness, and
complete the digestion and assimilation, and so
restore the functions of the digestive organs by
obtaining the maximum of nutriment from the
food, which sustains the body and assures good
health.
“Twelve months ago,” writes Mrs. Benjamin
Spooner, Glen Innes, N.S.W., “I was induced
by a friend to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
as I was suffering severely from indigestion and
bilious headaches. I had already tried various
remedies without any apparent results, so I
followed my friend’s advice and bought two
bottles of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They
gave me great relief. After a short course of these
pills the headaches left me, and I lost all traces of
the symptoms of indigestion.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a sure remedy for biliousness,
constipation, indigestion, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils, and for female ailments.


ARE
YOU
DEAF
OR IS IT HEAD NOISES
OR RINGING IN THE EARS
thi(- A^n!rn I t t r o I ! iay . haveUssw eet uses and lessons, but the affliction of partial or total deafness is one
•' f r°, n ! - v ? ur , fellows, debars you from the pleasantest paths of life, and buries you in a
tomo oi silence—awful in its loneliness.
mmllSl® 6 ’’// 0111 an J ear trouble, however slight, it is well to be cured at once and avoid further
nnrHr.iiia.lo J?? ve i? 1 ", *'* le ma kter develop into total deafness, do not despair, but write for
, « a remarkable reliable treatment that has restored perfect hearing- in thousands of cases,
“ EAROSCOPE ”t* reslBte< * a ** ot t* er treatments and been considered entirely incurable prior to this
• . . EAROSCOPE. will cure you. This marvellous method of ear treatment is based on a natural
Hm.; rvf a PP‘ lca * ,,on .°f Pure Aural Kinetics. It quickly dissipates the lighter afflictions, such as
lO . ® . ealS ’ ~u zzln£ an d discharges from the ear. Continued with regularity the hearing is
quicaiy restored, until you once more enter into the world of sound with all its manifold advantages.
JJ° boast, but solid fact, supported by the written testimony of many of our grateful
patients. Read the following letter just received s
HEARING REGAINED AT THE AGE OF 74.
W. J. JACOBS, Esq., STANTHORPE (Q ), writes I
herewith gratefully wish to inform you that the
noises have entirely stopped, and I have regained
my hearing so that I can hear ordinary conversation.
I may state the right ear was totally deaf. I have
been using the Earoscope for about ten weeks. Four
weeks ago my hearing came as a glad surprise to
me, and has been good evei* since. I am very happy
indeed, as I never expected to be cured at my
advanced age, particularly in the stone-deaf ear. As
I am in my 74th year, all my friends and myself
think it marvellous.”
We have thousands of similar reports from cures successfully accomplished in some of the most
obstinate cases of 30 and 40 years standing. Write for our booklet with full particulars and testimonials
regarding this boon to humanity. We will gladly tell you all about the treatment, and forward to you
full particulars FRKK OF CHARGE. Address
“ EAROSCOPE INST.” 90 Pitt St. (Dept. 26) Sydney N.S.W.
Legal Notice.
WILLIAM MOOT deceased.
"PURSUANT to the Statute 22nd and 23rd Victoria
- 1 - chapter 35 intituled “An Act to further amend the
Law of Property and to relieve Trustees.” Notice is
hereby given that all Creditors and other persons having
any debts claims or demands against the Estate of William
Mort late of 1 Stanley Crescent Notting Hill in the County
of Middlesex England Esquire (who died on the 28th day
of August 1907 and whose Will with two Codicils thereto
was proved in the Principal Registry of the Probate
Division of His Majesty’s High Court of Justice on the
9th day of November 1907 by Anna Louisa Mort William
Henry Saltwell Charles Henry Dickinson and Percy
Lawrence Tatham the Executors therein named) are
hereby required to send particulars in writing of their
debts claims or demands to us the undersigned as
Solicitors to the said Executors on or before the Ist day
March 1908 after which date the said Executors will pro-
ceed to distribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the persons entitled thereto having regard only to the
debts claims and demands of which they shall then have
had notice and that they will not be liable for the assets
or any part thereof so distributed to any person or
persons of whose debt claim or demand they shall not
then have had notice.
Dated this 20th dav of November 1907.
SALTWELL, TRYON & SALTWELL,
1 Stone Buildings,
Lincoln’s Inn, London, England.
Solicitors for the said Executors.
Missing Friends.
GALE, RICHARD. Write at once to vour
brother, Cole Street, ELSTERNWICK,
VICTORIA. Anxious.
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is infl animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
| which lead to tne ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing ;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICAT OK cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’ treatment, post free.
ST Ml NOVELTY CO .
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
y
T\
n
V
m
KRUSE’S
fluid mm
'
>u »
CRIMWABE
o
.
FLUID
K
ft
ua
M,
£
BT
Mi®
IGjV
cmn_
i
ri
lx
l
<=i
o<j
'cCG
KUGELMANN’S
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
&
“Beauty's
Aid."
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Before
How to Grow a Moustache!
Buy a Jar of CAPILLARINE and rub it into the skin lightly
every night—you will get splendid results even from one jar.
Price 10/6.
Sent Post Paid under Sealed
Cover to any part of the World.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 25 Years.
m
Wt
.Mm
*Ol
y* 'm
f - ,
.
Dunlop
Packings
We have just issued a very
fine illustrated list of our
Packings, Insertions, and En-
gineering Rubber Goods, and
shall be pleased to receive
the name and address of
every user of this class of
Goods, so that we may post
a copy of our comprehen-
sive catalogue.
Dunlop Packings, etc.,
are now extensively used
throughout Australasia with
great satisfaction, as the
Quality and Price
are right. The fact that
most of the leading Shipping
Companies, Mines, and Engin-
eering shops, etc., are now
using tons of our Goods, speaks
volumes as to their wearing
qualities.
a a a
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne
255 Clarence Street, Sydney
117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
67 King Street, Perth
Worcester Street, Christchurch, N.Z.
Brisbane Courier is an amusing contor-
tionist. While the tariff was in the balance it
wept daily for the “pore working man,” who
would be crushed to death because the duties
would make things dearer. Now, when the tariff
isn’t in the balance, it cheerfully announces that
a wise, discriminating Parliament put 35 per cent,
on foreign motor-cars and 30 per cent, on English.
The result will be that practically all bodies will be
constructed in the Commonwealth, and cars with locally-
built bodies should be obtainable at a considerable re-
duction on previous prices.
In other words, the duty is not only going to
establish an Australian industry, but it is going
to cheapen the cost to the purchaser. Yet when
it would have done Tariff Bill Lyne some good to
have said so, the Courier could only groan about
the pore crushed working man—the pore crushed
working man who is going to be provided with a
job at building the motor-car.
The Vic. cockies who have lately been
raving because the Australian Government has
decided to prohibit the importation of wheat bags
that will hold more than 2001 b. of grain, are
people that need watching. They waited on
Lyne, and Chapman, and Bent, and with breaks
in their voices implored Lyne and Chapman not
to bar the big wheat sacks, as they had not the
slightest intention of putting more than four
bushels (2401 b.) in each bag, and the extra 401 b.
wouldn’t make much difference to the wheat lum*
pers for one season. Then evidently the protesting
soil ticklers went back to their farms to see that
the last ounce of grain was rammed into the bags.
Anyway, all through the Vic. farming districts
one can hear cockies blowing about the heaviness
of their grain, as the bags are running 4|, 5, s£,
and 6 bushels each. There will be ructions at the
piers when those filled bags get to town.


OPEN
FACE,
OPEN
FACE,
10 -
86
%
S
w
%
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, S'b.
Higher grade, 10/, 12/6,
15/. 17/6, 20/, 26/.
Nurses’ Lever, 25/.
JkJkJ.
» “
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, set rubies,
pearls, and turquoise, or
all pearls, £3/ 10-
Rubies, olivines, and
pearls, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
l'Bct Gold RTNG,
diamonds and rubies
or sapphires,
£3/10/.
Five diamonds, £J>.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Heart BROOCH,
set opals and 1 diamonds,
£3/10/.
Larger size, £3/10/.-
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS ISjA LLWrNEED
to mail you a copy of our Illustrated w with as certain satis-
ideas. You can purchase by mall All foods delivered carnage
faction as if you visited Sydney personally. AH S
Free to any address.
POCKET-BOOK, Moroceo
leather, silk-lined, pure sil-
ver mounts and lock, 10 «.
With shield, 12/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/% 10/6,
12/6, 15/.
SOLID
SILVER,
2 /-/-
SOLID
GOLD,
6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
WATCHES, fully jewelled, £J2.
£2/10, £3, £3/10, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold-cased, £4/4, £5/5, £6/6.
Solid Gold, £6/10/, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £2o*.
£5O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 6, and 6 years.
A
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bee BROOCH,
set opals and amethyst,
8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Shamrock Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £2 /£>/•
Cs
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set pure double-
cut diamonds and opals,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pearls and
amethyst. £l-5/10/.
Tourmalins and pearls,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamond, and
Rubies or Sapphires,
80/.
A. SAUNDERS.
'9crt 'Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, set
■pearls and rubies or sap-
phires, 20/.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
■9ot 'Gold Shield and Dumb
bell LINKS,
12/6
15ct Gold, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set pure white pearls, olivine, and
rubies, £7/ 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BRACELET, set diamond and rubies or
sapphires, £4/10-
All Diamonds, £5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires,
£lO
Emerald centre, £l2/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires,
'Si O'.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
<§v
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3-
15ct Gold, £4/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold-band RING,
Opal, Ruby, or Sapphire,
17/6-
15ct Gold. Opal, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold RING, Nug-
gets, 25/.
15ct Gold, £2.
18ct Gold. £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with safety
chain, £3/5/.
Smaller, £2/5/, £2/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and NECKLET,
set pure double-cut diamonds
and fine opals, £45-
A. SAUNDEKS.
Set Gold 3-Bird BROOCH,
set pearls, 20/*
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Heart and Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £3-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, 5 fine opals,
£2/10
Large opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pure pearls and
amethysts, £4- 15ct Gold,
£5/10/.
Set pearls, tourmalines, and
peridots, 15ct Gold, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold “Dinna Forget”
CHARM, 10/.
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds, and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar Wishbone
BROOCH, set pearls and
ruby or sapphire, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Oval LINKS,
22/6.
15ct Gold, £2. Initials
engraved free.
SOLID
SILVER,
2 51-
SOLID
GOLD,
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Fully Jewelled, JSS/-
SO/, 35/, 40/, 50. Solid
Gold, £3/, £3/10, £4/,
£4/10. £5. £5/10, £6/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Harp BROOCH,
set fine white pearls,
£3/10/.
rM
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £lO-
- centre, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, set fine pearls
and turquoise, £2/10/*
PURSE and CARDCASE
combined, Morocco leather,
pure silver mounts and
lock, 8/(»-
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6.
OPEN
FACE,
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES,
7/6, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
Higher grade, 25/.
All Guaranteed.
EXTRA
QUALITY.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney-


[ BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS ]
• V
32
'4h&
s.
m^s^Sssm
u.
V. ..-- .V .■*
a
IT
•#o*4
m* .
'** ***
*
m
.
• rwniiiMiri •
*•**»»
»ii «3B»
rt
Mi*
. .
#**
«*
■ 2
V* .CT©
* tf •
:: : V;
* * ;
* ' /’"W * **
r*->'
SS&Sfe&l*
m
'■*
z JBmmm*** *&***
•m#***- •Sp**^
. " <,
FULL CONCERT GRAND, recently exhibited at Federal Parliament House* Price 275 Guineas*
THis Piano was, liKe all BEALE PIANOS, made ENTIRELY IN AUSTRALIA,
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF ONLY ONE PART.
r "|''HE whole CABINET WORK, every detail of it, was made in our own factories in
The whole of the IRON FRAME and all other IRON CASTINGS were made
from Australian (Lithgow) iron in our own factories in Australia.
The SCALE was calculated and drawn out on plan entirely in our own factories in Aus-
tralia. This is the most difficult and technical item in piano manufacture.
The whole SOUNDING-BOARD was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
All the BRONZE, GUN-METAL, BRASS and ALUMINIUM CASTINGS were
made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The SCREW STUDS, ACTION BOLTS and NUTS were made entirely in our own
factories in Australia.
The PEDALS were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The BALL-BEARING CASTORS were made entirely in our own factories in Aus-
tralia out of Australian metals.
The KEYBOARD was made, according to the SCALE, entirely in our own factories in
Australia.
The CARVINGS were designed and executed in our own factories in Australia.
The SOLID IRON WREST-PLANK was invented by us in Australia, and patented
throughout the world.
The only part of this instrument which was not made entirely in our own factories is the Action (the mechanism which causes the hammers
to strike the strings when the keys are played on). The action was made by the action-maker admitted to be the best in the world, whose
actions are used throughout the world only in the most expensive instruments. The style used by us is the very latest double-repetition.
No other Piano Manufacturer in the World accomplishes such a wide range of work.
The patented WREST-PINS for the patent tuning-system were made on an automatic
machine entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The AUTOMATIC MACHINES for turning, squaring and drilling the patented wrest-
pins were designed and made entirely in our own factories in Australia,
The SPINNING MACHINES, for winding the bass strings with copper and iron wire,
were designed and made by us in our own factories in Australia.
The AGRAFFE STUDS (which in horizontal pianos take the place of the pressure-bars
in uprights) were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The AUTOMATIC MACHINE, which made the agraffe studs, was designed and made
in our own factories in Australia. This machine can also be adapted to a variety of
other work.
The PRESSES used in the making of the TOP and SIDES, including the bending of the
sides, were designed and made entirely in our own factories.
The Improved HINGES for the top (whereby a moulding may be had on all four sides,
an impossibility with imported horizontal pianos) were made entirely in our own factories in
Australia.
Even the LOCK AND KEY for the piano were made entirely in our own factories in
Australia.
INASMUCH as wood-screws and steel and copper-wire are not made in Australia,
Nettlefold’s screws were used by us, and the wire was imported; but even then the
copper-wire, as above stated, was wound on to the steel in our own factories, on
machines designed and made by us.
This instrument is of the highest possible grade, unequalled in respect of the tuning-
system—whereby the durability of the instrument is greatly extended—and it is not surpassed
in any other direction by any instrument in the world.
A remarkable evenness of tone is obtained by the unique construction of the frame. We
have retained the usual resistance-bars (the trusses which are intended to give rigidity to the
frame under strain of the wires), but they are so constructed as to obviate the necessity of
cutting the fibres of the wood in the sounding-board bridge. This interference with the
bridge has been the cause of the dulness or unevenness of some notes observable in many
pianos, both upright and horizontal. The result of our improvement, coupled with a scale
which has been calculated according to the ascertained laws of harmonics, is that our piano
has a magnificent tone which has been greatly admired.
Placed side by side in Parliament House with a foreign-made horizontal grand, the latter
was so hopelessly outclassed, although of a leading German make, that tjie importers
removed it next day. The construction, finish and tone of the foreign instrument were
plainly inferior. To place our pianos side by side with those of any good maker is the
opportunity we always desire.
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
BEALE, ®. COMPANY LIMITED
Australian Piano
Manufacturers,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES:
Trafalgar Street, Annandale, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES at 474 George Street, Sydney; Hunter Street, Newcastle; George Street, Bathurst, N.S.W. ;
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Vic.; 127 Bundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgcorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland). BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.


<L-±
0
Q
O
"s •#
52#-
E9**e?
-*«*
t ',
0
Q
O
A USTRALIA greets 1908 with a flush of prosperity, a heavy debt, an a
A load of folly. Australia sends nearly 40 millions annually over the
sea to buy goods that can be made—and made better—in Australia.
What is worse, she is shipping the great bulk of her wool clip to foreign
shores and bringing back again to Australia the bulk of the womens that
make the bulk of Australian clothes. The Commonwealth Ministry,
instigated thereto by Bill Lyne, has rightly penalised the Australian who
persists in being guilty of the crime of wearing imported woollens made of
Australian wool mixed with all sorts of rubbish-ergo shoddy-when he can
insist on his tailor supplying him with pure Marrickville Tweed—which is
all Australian wool, and nothing but wool.
Why should an Australian be guilty of such crass stupidity as supporting
the system which first ships the finest raw material to another land, pays
freight both ways, the agent on this side, the agent on the other side,
the spinner on the other side, the woollens’ agent on the other side, and
the importer or agent on this side, when he can go to his tailor and get
MARRICKVILLE TWEED
made of pure wool and nothing but wool, the only intermediary between
him and the sheep being
THE SHEEP FARMER or SQUATTER,
JOHN VICARS & CO., and HIS TAILOR?
To ensure that you get Marrickville Tweed JOHN VICARS & CO.,
Manufacturers of the Marrickville Tweeds, stamp their name and trade
mark as above on every two yards of Tweed that they sell as Marrickville
Tweed. When you order your next suit of clothes see that the tailor gives
you Marrickville Tweed. Remember “The Waratah ’ is John Vicars & Co. s
trade mark, and if you first want to know what Marrickville Tweed is
like, send post card for sample patterns to
JOHN VICARS &. CO., Marrickville Mills, Sydney,
Then order a Marrickville Tweed suit, and help the making of woollens
in Australia, and the progress of our great Commonwealth.


4*
F . o\
r> .
• W\ n
*
ST
W
ft
5
<£ U#
%
%
>T®
aft
, ■■x
■■■ '■''*»
w,
■
< ■
'"’•w
>
.
—ft
?ARff£
T
«r
I.
-
*«•
-o i
r
o
*
N,
E.d
*******
!rts
.
Jf
vtH
c o
Q
Or
£
O
4
V
/
S'
Interstate Mail
Steamshijx Lines
i %
■i
N the maps of yesterday the
south-eastern corner of Aus‘
tralia that is now marked
VICTORIA is branded
AUSTRALIA FELIX.
The term is significant,
and although the white man has come with
fire and axe and turned the picturesque wilder-
ness into a thriving State, some remnants of the
ancient beauty remain. Where the Yarra rippled
down into an empty harbor 71 years ago, now stands the
city of Melbourne, the seventh city of the Empire on
scale of population, but fourth in wealth and traffic-
The foundations of the city were laid in March, 1837,
when Governor Bourke went from Sydney personally
to lay out a township to be called Melbourne. But
it was not till the Ist of June that the first sale of
land took place, under the superintendence of Robert
Hoddle, head of the Survey Department. Hoddle
read the conditions of sale from a tree stump,
and Cooper, Comptroller of Sydney Customs,
sat behind him on a rock receiving the
deposits. Two hundred people were present,- and
land booming started right away, the old accounts
saying that “ bidding was very brisk, the whole 200
bidding.” The land was put up in half-acre allot-
ments. with 80ft. frontage to the main street, and
JohnPascoe Fawkner got the first for £32. That
little allotment is the present eastern corner of King
and Flinders Streets, and worth about that much per
inch now. Batman got the one that was considered
the pick of the lot for £6O, and 10 acres of the part
that is now known as The Block were sold for £504.
Hoddle’s commission was £57, and he took it out in
two allotments in Elizabeth Street, and lived to see
them rise to a value of £250,000. Such was the first
day of Marvellous Melbourne.
Unlike Sydney, which was “surveyed with a
boomerang, and laid out with a bullock dray,” Mel-
bourne grew up on a scientific design, and the result
is an unusually fine city, in which the magnificent
buildings are seen to the best advantage. In seven
years about £77,000,000 worth of gold passed through
the new city on its way to the old world, and
gave it life. The result was magnificent shops,
palatial hotels and coffee palaces, and great
private mansions. In the whole world
there is no more interesting city to the
tourist than Melbourne. He will see a
J city that, like Jonah’s gourd, grew
k a up almost in anight;
but, unlike the
vegetable mar-
row of the pro-
phet, grew in
imperishable
stone and
steel. It was
a creation
that can be
only likened
to the work
of some old
magician in
the Arabian
Nights, and
now, long
years after the gold boom has faded into history, and
the land boom has come, blown out fortunes to
balloon-like proportions, and, balloon like, burst and
left only empty air, the great beautiful city re-
mains, and is wealthier than ever. Where before
it was wealthy on paper only, to-day it is
rich with the things that really make wealth. Twice
the city was practically pulled down and rebuilt, the
first time during the gold fever, and the second time
between 1880 and 1890, when it became a city of vast
piles rising 10 and 12 storeys high. Here are a few
of the buildings that no tourist to Melbourne
should miss seeing : The City of Melbourne
Electric Lighting Station, the Australasian Wool
Stores, the Australian Mutual Provident Society’s
Office, and the Rialto. The Savings Bank of
Victoria occupies a magnificent freestone build-
ing in Market Street. The most massive build-
ing in Melbourne is the office of the Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the United States, and is well
worth inspection. The Commercial Bank occupies a
splendid structure of mingled freestone and granite.
The Melbourne Town Hall is one of the glories of the
southern capital, its arches, pillars, windows, porches,
all in white freestone, rising from a massive founda-
tion of bluestone, rising to a lofty clock tower. But,
magnificent as is the Town Hall, it sinks into
insignificance beside the ambitious edifice where the
Victorian Parliament used to meet, but which is now
occupied by the Australian Parliament —House of
Representatives and'Senate. The rest would take
about half The Bulletin to enumerate.
(S 3?
A well-stocked Zoological Garden is among the
outdoor attractions of Melbourne, and although the
supply of foreign animals is large and interesting, to
the Australian the collection of animals, birds, rep-
tiles and things that are partly all three is much
more attractive. Baron Von Mueller made the
Botanic Gardens a veritable paradise : Lakes, rustic
bridges, groves of palms, smooth-shaven lawns,
summer houses where one may rest, great conserva-
tories and houses of orchids, museums, and a wilder-
ness of roses, away to where the ferns and fern-trees
luxuriate in an artificial atmosphere. The man
interested in fruit-growing will find the material
for a pleasant week in the Horticultural Society’s
Gardens in Richmond. There fruit-growing is
reduced to an exact science, and every man who has
an orchard should call there. Then who has not
heard of Flernington Racecourse ?—a course which
Jubilee Plunger Benson, who was an authority
on racecourses, anyhow, said was the finest
in the world. The course is reached by
either tram or train, or, if affluent, one may
hire a vehicle and go down in style by a road
which is well worth driving over. The natural con-
figuration is such that a perfect view is to be obtained
of the whole race from either the grandstands or
the spot known all over Australasia as “ The Hill.”
The horses start in the distance, thunder past the
front of the stands, sweep away round the flat, race
into the straight, struggle down it, fighting with Fate
and one another to where Destiny waits at the
Judge’s box, right in front of the stands. A short run
in the train from Princes Bridge Station will take the
tourist out to Caulfield, where stables, mansions of
mighty owners and still mightier trainers are all
mixed up together. But, in spite of its sensational
history, Caulfield has not the scenic glories of Flem-
ington. The grounds of the far-famed Melbourne
Cricket Club are to be found in Yarra Park, out
Richmond way, and no lover of sport should leave
the southern capital without having gazed upon this
classic cricketing ground, where so many great battles
have been fought between Australian and English
Elevens.
Hobson’s Bay has attractions of its own. though
they are limited compared to the wealth of oppor-
tunity for enjoyment that our tourist found in Sydney
Harbor. There are numerous interesting spots, and
one can go on a voyage of exploration and discovery
over about 100 miles for the very reasonable sum of
three shillings, meals extra. Twenty-three miles
out in the country lies Fern Tree Gully, a lovely
spot where fern-trees and ferns, lycopods and poly-
pods, and bright and numerous mosses, clothing fallen
log and growing tree, all explain why this place was
once called Australia Felix. This lovely wilderness
rises 2000 ft. high, and the tourist who perseveres to
the end will find himself on the summit of the famous
Dandenong Ranges. But once the tourist starts
to leave the city he should place himself in the
hands of the Tourist Department, which will arrange
an itinerary. First of all Victorian holiday resorts
is Lome, a place where silver beaches, ragged cliffs,
and jagged reefs are fixed inextricably together.
With the boom of the surf still in his ears, he wanders
among fern gullies, listening to the wondrous music
of many waterfalls. “That far-off falling of many
waters ” in exquisite surroundings is the most beauti-
ful music on earth. Then there are the Victorian
section of the Australian Alps—wild, magnificent,
tremendous, culminating in the snow-clad mass of
Mount Sjnythe. From November to the end of April
the Tourist Department affords special facilities for
visiting the newly-discovered Buchan Caves. Then
the forest-clad Gippsland has many beautiful
spots to show, including the famous Giant Tree
Bridge. The lovely Ladies’ Bath at Eurobin Falls,
The Loch Ard Gorge, Castle Lower Rock, the
Mathinna Falls, the Gorge at Buffalo Falls, Beech-
worth, Lake Tyers, in Gippsland, and snow-tipped
Mt. Bogong, and a score of other places too numerous
to mention. All of them are, however, within a
day’s journey of Melbourne, and the man who has
a week to spare can leave his steamer at Melbourne,
plunge into one or two of these beauty spots, or if
preferred, take a hurried scamper through them all,
and get back to Melbourne to resume
his journey over the ocean wave in the
first of the steamers belonging to the
Five Companies that come along. A
M
For a long time it has been
been generally understood
that Victoria has no
scenery. This is a
great mistake, though
it is only of late
months that the
State hasawakened
to the fact that
scenery is an as-
set, and set towork
to open up its
beauty spots and
make them avail-
able to people who
have never more
than a week to
spare.
,ItA Ms
&
1


CITIZENS’
Life Assurance Company
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE :*
CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLEREAGH AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES :
NEW SOUTH WALES : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLE-
REAGH AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 281-283-285 COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 381-383 QUEEN
STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 131 KING
WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA : 241 ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE,
PERTH.
TASMANIA : LIVERPOOL AND MURRAY STREETS,
HOBART ; 66 ST. JOHN STREET, LAUNCESTON.
NEW ZEALAND : 6 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.
UNITED KINGDOM : 15 WALBROOK, LONDON, E.C. DE,
£1,817,511 Bs. 8d
Assets at 31st December, 1906
Securities, Municipal Loans and Debentures
£1,817,511 8 8 100.00
*The Bulletin, 22nd February, 1906, said: “The increase in the holding of public securities —which
means safety-—is notable. No other Australian office of first or second rank has so large a proportion.”
The Company’s Consulting Actuary, fir. R. P. HARDY, F.1.A.,
F,F,A., in his Report on the 1905 Ordinary Branch
Valuation, says:
“Looking to the high protecting margin involved in the
restrained estimated interest-yield of only 3 per cent., / am
of opinion that the appropriation of £45,019 out of this
Surplus was safe; and that, moreover, it leaves all sources
of future profit, whether from an excess of interest-yield of
nearly 1\ per cent., or from the other usual accumulations,
intact, so that new entrants may join the Company in full
reliance that they will receive in addition to the advantage of
a tried and matured organisation, the full benefit of
their own contributions
Specimen Bonuses
In resped of the One Year 1906, per £.lOO of Policy.
ORDINARY ■ BRANCH.
WHOLE TERM OF LIFE.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S -AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
h I
25 Years Selling the Plum.
In 25 years selling the PL/XJM, we have had no complaints—
and not ONE returned. We guarantee it for two years, and will
refund money to any man who is dissatisfied. We examine each
one, and see that it has the “ shaving edge.”
PRICE 10 6
Post Free to any
part of the World.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Razoieo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 26 "Wears.
KRUSE’S lijSccticide
KILLS ALL INSECTS
/
mm
-
i
‘
.
M:
‘
Whari to i 'o
..-a<tor using
KRUSE’S
*
fho. I* dmtroghf flffli.MM
a* fum. and ever./ otter ipmuf]
&nt i p/a fi(lot deitferlM fcifc*l
R> 1 application toOogttoJl
eirbct.'-
<*b« AaMitktM
'MI imt A «m»a qaiOtit? oHW
»*«M tti«r win not w*'
7 »**pi *»»r in' «&• more.utf;**;;
irfiUwmrkMM.
* * iwMXxmMl nr i<r° »» '“‘S'd
Vb* wm» P
rtsw <Mu in Out, Dote l *» J**"
SW
v«‘
KRUSE’S
\.i Wrt&jlptf fft dtu tracing f'
» 9#MhftML pj>J atetn attar • '
5 #teM*9iM ilku eaif.-r •
cppiieeti.* it - V
piar
‘ *> » miij **«*»»»» ;a ih*
» Mf,a *« Hfrt- <* 'A '
jfefWMNr*: wwpoof.rji wr t*<> ■'. -
$ i' * «-•"* ,
1 *■*•*»:««rt»B*«**«»* : ■
» _ pMmfjolt. stt Haann ’*» <
1 6P- V - • ■
!*s*«#,_*« JtatfUM
SeVef.-i.Udk OKSOTSX PiCW^H
Si&aS «c« *1
GRIMWAC
TON
FELTON, GRi:"'
*? • ' . ' *ol® Itf Yf** ** *
■ I »---
a*
•OLQ Itt TIKB AT W«jVj
<iWf
A Sreat Aid to Health aijd Conjfort
The accompanying letter represents
the sentiments of over 1000 Hotel-
keepers throughout Australasia who
■are using ECKERSLEY'S AERATED
WATER MACHINES.
Machines are sold for
Cash or-'Terms from
£lB and upwards.
BROOME
G
PERTH
ALBANY
COOKTOWN
ROCKHAMPTON
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
SYDNEY-
ADELAIDE
Transcontinental Hotel,
OQDNAQATTA,
Slum 7th, 1907
To Eckersley & Sons,
I Oear Sirs,
I I am writing to tell you that the
I Aerated Water Machine you sent me has
I proved most satisfactory. It does all
I you claim for it, and more. I am sur-
I prised it. is not more widely used. . . •
I I am turning out very superior Aerated
I Waters with your machine . . . Every
I hotelkeeper would purchase your
I machine if they knew of its excellent
I qualities.
F. C. STAER.
Agents—Queensland : Elliot & Hancorne, 113 Eagle St., Brisbane
W.A. : Wm. Sandover & Co., Hay Street, Perth
sole proprietors and patentees: ECKERSLEY & SONS, Queen Street, Melbourne
“ Mallarapoonie ” advances a theory
Curious how imagination conjures up people, places,
and things. Sometimes it is correct in details, and miles
out of its reckoning in generalities : while at other times
it is just the reverse. Take, for instance, a few Bulletin
contributors, all strangers to me, and this is how I com-
monly suppose them :
“Cross Nibs”: A typical bush-whacker. Mostly
follows shearing, but runs a bumboat round N.S.W.
country districts in slack times.
“Agricola”: Professor of Agriculture at Hawkesbnry
College. Rose to his present position from a cow-cocky’s
slave.
“Silas Snell”: One of the Johns who regulate the
traffic at the intersection of Collins and Elizabeth streets,
Melbourne, particularly the one on afternoon shift.
Lives somewhere in Brunswick. Is a widower.
“ Walfre” : A sunburnt, bandy-legged horseman of the
Western cattle country. Tough as nails, and thin as pin
wire.
“Lindy Lou”: Same persuasion as “Walfre,*’ only
handier, and doesn’t live so far back.
“ Hamer” : A gentleman in reduced circumstances.
“ Hiphen ” : A benevolent, snowy-whiskered old gentle-
man. He is The Bulletin s Oldest Inhabitant. Is an ex-
goldfields-warden. Lives about Singleton. Is immensely
wealthy. Has considerable grandchildren.
“Kodak”: A rising young clerk in the Lands Depart-
ment. No end of a swell, and a great chap with the
girls. He and “Hamer” are old cronies. Both say
“ Haw.”
“Frank Henty ” : A burly, florid person of the well-to-
do cocky variety. Is an expert viticulturist. Pursues
literature, and in between times keeps the hairy-legged
bugs off the fine stalks. Has an astonishingly large
family. Was reared in the Wesleyan faith, but is now an
atheist.
“Janor”: A tall, cadaverous bushman, with a bristly
red moustache and a bottle—l mean battle-scarred
nose. An elderly man, who has lived a hard life, and
lived it strenuously. Ekes a precarious livimr by gold-
specking in tile gullies round Kosciusko. Is a. great
authority on snakes and other bleary-looking optical
delusions. Father was a parson.
“Stony ” : A small, dark-whiskered person, who travels
Melbourne suburbs for a firm of tea-merchants.
“F.H.R.": Something like “.Janor,” only younger,
and not such a hard case, but a terror to skite.
“The Prooshan”: Six foot three of bushy-whiskered
Australian manhood. Australia’s typical bullock-driver.
Follows tank-sinking and fencing. Has a taste for
scientific questions and spirits. Has been an old cobber
of “ Janor’s” for years, and he and “Janor” have been
frequently known to sit up together and take nourish-
ment out of a bottle long after the pubs had shut.
“The Prooshan ” about two old squat-
ters :
Jacky Dow, out in the Narrandera district (N.S.W.),
was “the traveller’s” horror. “Want work, do ye?
And prayin’ t’ God you won’t get it, eh ? Well, can yer
run? Oh, you’re a good runner, eh? Well, just show
me your top pace with the swag up. . . Good, keep on
. . . keep on.” Sometimes he got them turning a grind-
stone. “ That’s right, keep it going. Never mind about
any axe. Ye say ye want work ; keep on.” After about
an hour’s solitary at that game, the whaler usually
quitted. Another was McGaw, of Cuba, also out Narran-
dera way. He had a shovel specially Made ; the blade was
2ft. by about 2Jft., and it was furnished with a handle like
a mast. It was known as “ McGaw’s Monday.” McGaw
made it a test of a work-applicant’s bona-fidex and tough-
ness. If one kept “ McGaw’s Monday” going for a day,
he got work. But the shovel caused most of them to
bolt.


I
»
OF
THE
Li
vSUQGESTS
For Baby’s First Bath and
Subsequent Baths.
Because of its delicate,
emollient, sanative, anti-
septic properties derived
from Cuticura, united with
the purest of saponaceous
ingredients and most re-
freshing of flower odours,
Cuticura Soap is all that the
fondest of fond mothers de-
siresforcleansing,preserving
and purifying the skin, scalp,
hair and hands of infants and
children. Guaranteed abso-
lutely pure and may be used
from the hour of birth.
Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.: Paris. 5
Rue de la Paix: Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.. Boston.
U. S. A*. Sole Props. aa~Post-free. Cuticura BooK.
The Bushman.
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
—POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA—
Lever
14/6.
13 /
N
W
A
%
Watch
14/6.
'■J-'HIS is the ideal watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas, We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is a polished steel LEVER Watch, with a fully
jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
can have the case either NICKEL or GUNMETAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will be of interest to you.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
115,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
wad keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
MOTHERSEIGEL S SYRUP
cures Indigestion, Bilious-
ness, Constipation, Head-
ache, Wind, Palpitation,
Loss of Appetite. Dizziness.
It is a purely vegetable pre-
paration, and cures, in all
cases, by aidingand strength
ening the stomach and liver
“My digestion broke down,
I iost appetite, and the
little I ate caused me
hours of agony. I be-
came so weak and thin
that I could hardly put
one foot before the other.
Nothing helped me till
I got Mother Seigel's
Syrup. That cured me "
—From Mr. E. Earles,
9S, Moray Street, South
Melbourne, Victoria.
April 27th, 1907.
Have you a dull, heavy, oppressive feeling
—a feeling that you have eaten too much ?
If so, indigestion is at work. You may
not have eaten too much for your bodily
needs, but you have eaten more than your
stomach can dispose of. For comfort's
sake you will probably eat more sparingly
in future. Then your strength will suffer,
and your stomach, like every other organ
of your body, be further weakened That
method can only end in ruined health. The
real cure is to strengthen your stomach, and
to do that you should
TAKE MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
P
SYRUP.
Lady s Smart Glace
Oxford Kid Shoe,
18/6.
One of the finest shoes at present on the
market. For comfort in walking 1 it is un-
equalled, and in appearance extremely
stylish. Fitted with t.he up-to-date Cuban
heel, and three-quarters goloshed, its price
is only 18/6. Postage in Victoria 9d. extra ;
to any other State 1/-
f EEMING’S
-L/ BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 1 and 3 Krrol Street, North
Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
Bootmaker to His Excellency the Governor-General.
The..
EDISON
HOME.
Phonograph.
COMPLETE-
£7 lOs.
One of the Best of the EDISON
productions, and a most popular
talking machine.
We are Wholesalers for these
machines —you know what that
means better variety large
stock —favorable prices.
THE EDISON HOME
PHONOGRAPH.
Edison Records are now 1/6 Each.
Other Brands of Records 1/- and 1/3.
t
;
ail
If Ifßra^g
\ i
mu
’j .•«
k!
SVjW
1 ffli u ".i! 1 . !iB
f !
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., JirJigig
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
&
m
it
v*
0
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott CJros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwadc & Co.,
Melbourne*
“Belay”: There were five of us at an
East Victorian railway station, clamoring to the
languid potentate for tickets to Melbourne. No. 1:
“First return to town” ; No. 2 : “First return to
the city ” ; No. 3: “ Second single Melbourne ” ;
No. 4: “Second return Flinders-street” ; No. 5 :
“First single in.” Wonderful how many ways
you can ask for the same thing.
“ Philo ” : I putin a day once in a Sydney
Court in one of the unhealthy parts of the city
studying the people who rub noses with the holy
volume when they take the oath. There were a
multitude of cases that day ; and a multitude of
slummy witnesses. A consumptive entered the
box and embraced the book. Later, a beery-
looking individual breathed heavily into it. A
very unwashed object dragged his whiskers fondly
all over it, and got them tangled in the pages.
Further on an elderly party, with a repulsive-
looking growth on the back of his neck, came
along and bestowed his affections on the volume.
He was followed by a pale female, suffering from a
severe attack of influenza, who snivelled energeti-
cally over the literature. And as I made my
thoughtful departure a young man, with small
humors covering his face and neck, was chewing
the spiritual guide and sole source of Britain’s
greatness. It is a foul and dreadful business,
take it all round.
“ Kodak ” : Something about the man on
the dredge made me think of an undertaker.
Though dressed in rough clothes and adorned
with much grease, he had the reserved and sym-
pathetic air of one who had dealt with numberless
“departeds.” He rarely smiled, and he told me
this in a mournful monotone :
Yes, the ’arbor’s a nice place, but this ’ere dredgin’
business ’as pretty well spoilt it f’r me. Most people
takes a sooperfishel view of it —just as they takes a
sooperfishel view o’ life. Th’ nooly-married couple on th’
Manlv boat ses t’ each other, “ Ain’t it marvell’us, dear !
Aiu’t it lovely ! ” and they goes round th’ diff’rint trips
and sez as ’ow there ain’t nothin’ like it anywhere, an’
they’d never ’a’ thought it. (W’ich is truer than usu’l, f’r
they never do think anythin’!)
I suppose, though, this dredgin’job’s demoralisin’ to a
man’s sense o’ beauty. I useter look on th’ surface, same
as most people do, but after two years o’ bein’ on
this boat ’ere, ’elpin’ t’ clean up th’ bottom o’
the sea, an’ findin’ 5000 dead animiles per an,
w’enever I look over th’ side at the water 1
start imaginin’ in me ’ead ’ow much passed-out
live stock is layin’ down below waitin’ calm and patient
for us to resurrect ’em and haul ’em up t’ the daylight.
I useter think when X first took th’ job on, and seen th’
curious things that come up, wot a pity it was I couldn’t
write about it in th’ papers, but, after th’ first few days,
I sees it wouldn’t do. I don’t know where all the dogs
comes from. I’ve seen so many dead dogs these last two
years that a live one to me don’t look natcheral.
Sometimes it gets on -me nerves, an’ I thinks
t’ meself : “ Well, Sydney must be almos’ out o’
dogs now—they’ll have t’ see about importin’ a
few,” but wen I gets thinkin’ that I takes a ’olidav. No,
I can’t enjoy th’ ’arbor like I useter, an’ the only consola-
tion I’ve got is they carn’t dredge th’ blessed ocean.
D’reckly they invent a machine that’ll scoop up th’ stuff
that’s been accumulatin’ outside f’r millyuns an millyuns
o’ years,l’m goin’t’ look f’r a job ashore !
El wood Mead, the irrigation expert whom
Thomas Bent lately imported from Yankeeland,
has begun to say unpleasant things about the
Victorian irrigation system. Mead is very gentle
and apologetic, and has so far touched only the
fringe of the matter; but in saying that the
Cabbage Garden’s want of success in irrigation is
chiefly due to the refractory nature of the
soil, the poorness of the water supply,
and the absurdly long distances the water
has been carried, he has said quite enough
to set people thinking. Also Bull-Cohen will
probably re-adjust his considering cap when he
hears about it. Victoria has spent something
like £6,230,000 on irrigation works, and is still
spending. Of this it has written off £1,500,000 as
a bad debt, and £1,172,000 as having been spent
on head works which will yield no direct revenue.
The bill for interest is presented regularly, how-
ever. The works in existence were designed to irri-
gate 2,702,180 acres; last year they actually irrigated
an insignificant 103,070 acres. So far as statistics
show, this huge expenditure of money has prac-
tically failed to put a dozen more families on the
land than were there before, or to increase pro-
duction by as much as even 1 per cent. The
chief reason for this failure is the want of ade-
quate and properly-adjusted water rates to com-
pel the landowner to use the fluid, and of a land-
tax to compel him either to use his land to its full
capacity or to sell it to those who will. If these
landholders had been thus forced to use their
lands and the water from the beginning, there
would have been no possibility—after the first
initial blunder—of carrying the water needlessly
long distances. As it is, there is a weary waste of
useless channeling, and a heavy load of debt to
be carried until there arises a man, honest and
strong enough, to set about paying off that debt.
And a land-tax will be the first step towards
finding the means to do so.
“Sr,” from Melbourne :
A disastrous motor-car race calamitated in our street
t’other evening.
The contestants were Ginger Smith, in his Dion de
Kerosene Case, and Nipper Jones, in his Oldsmobile Starch
Package.
A side-wager of a dozen cigarette cards depended on
the issue.
The course was a nice long steep hill, the fastest track
round about Richmond.
They left the lamp-post on the top of the hill to a fairly
even start. The cars were soon merrily pffffffing along.
Ginger’s car gained a slight advantage through the
dexterous propelling of the vehicle by the chauffeur’s legs.
Gradually the speed increased and the cars dashed on
like cyclones chased by forked lightning.
Suddenly Ginger’s steering apparatus mishapped.
With an irresistible swerve his car cannoned into his
rival’s motor and upset the deportment of the driver.
Both cars careered on their uncontrolled courses in a
drunken hurricane fashion. A Chow’s truck, indolently
resting on its prop-stick, stood in the way. A bump on
its weather bow dislodged its moorings, and it joyfully
joined in the race. A pram, that held a squalling kid
joined in the struggle. They both swept away the bar-
row of a Dago who sold oysters.
I couldn’t determine which car reached the bottom of
the hill first.
When I arrived at the winning post a Chow was
anathematising the universe and giving creation Sheol.
A Dago oyster hawker was making preparations to plug
the Chow. Ginger, from under the debris of his car,
described Nipper, whose body was somewhere beneath
the oyster truck, as “ a cranky cow not to look where he
was goin’.” And a woman was screaming, “ I’ve found
the pram, but I can’t find Bubs anywhere. Oh ! ”
I waited for 20 minutes whilst the Chow and the Dago
collected their scattered merchandise, but no kid was
found. It must have been bumped up to Heaven in one
great act.
Now that the summer months are here,
and Melbourne is hard put to it to get a long,
j cool beer on Sunday, the bay steamers are doing
a good trade. For 2s. one can obtain a dispen-
sation to purchase sixpenny beers the whole
afternoon, and a £2O or £3O turnover is not at all
unusual for the bar of a Port Phillip steamer on a
warm Sunday. What with the wild howling of
the beer-drinkers and the fretful bellowing of
hundreds of infants in arms, accompanied by the
frequent “ Now, Willie ! ” of fat-headed mothers,
and the pientitude of banana skins and crumbled
biscuit, and the state of the toffee-besmeared
seats and deck chairs, a picnic down the bay on a
fair Sunday is a picnic indeed.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL. SYDNEY.
■ Direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY AFTERNOON at 2 o’clock sharp,
The Famous Dream Play,
BLUE BELL IN FAIRYLAND.
EVERY EVENING at 8 p.m.
JULIUS KNIGHT and OLA HUMPHREY in the
Picturesque Romantic Play,
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Elvy’s.
IJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ 1 Under the direction qt' J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of the ever-welcome and
popular organisation,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In their Latest and Greatest Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
lA# ONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
(THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
Sole Proprietorand Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON
FREE ATTRACTIONS UNENDING.
SENSATION MIRTH SPECTACLES.
FREE CIRCUS FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE-REGAL CONCERT BAND.
Something Doing All the Time.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Morning Papers.
Adults, 6d.—To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, 3d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Edwin Geach.
EVERY EVENING. PRONOUNCED SUCCESS of
FRANK THORNTON
AND HIS NEW LONDON COMPANY
IN ....
WHEN KNIGHTS
Prices—s/-, 3/-, 2/-, and 1/-
WERE BOLD.
Plan at Elvy’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THE GREAT POPULAR SUCCESS, IN THE
pop pa“t e omime, CINDERELLA,
ANDERSON and SHERIDAN’S GRAND ACHIEVE-
MENT EVERY NIGHT.
Paced at Tip-Top Speed by the Funny, Fussy, Frivolous
Baroness, JOHNNY SHERIDAN.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, and 1/-. Booking Fee, 1/- extra.
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
The Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WESUS PICTURES (“ The Best of All ”>
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Richards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
HERBERT LA MARTINE, Clever, Eccentric Legmania
Artist, Expert Baton Spinner, and Vocalist.
EDWIN BOYDE, London’s Celebrated Comedian.
THOS. E. FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
THE FOUR EUGENES, The Incomparable and Perfect
Aerial Gymnasts.
LA SYLPHE, London’s Greatest Lady Dancer.
URBAN BIOSCOPE, showing Weiss v. Roberts
Billiard Match.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Mtisicial Artists.
THREE SISTERS KLOS, Skilful Daring Aerialists Extant.
THREE CUNARDS, Expert Dancers.
ARTHUR CROXON, Comedian Mimic Monologue Artist.
MADAME RHODESIA, Society Lady Juggler.
TERRY and BENTLY, Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. JgT PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
’ * Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HBIPTI
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, BERT BARTON,
HARRY PHYDORA, FLORENCE VOUNG,
MAUDE THORNE, IRENE DILLON.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
I) U M P T Y.
N
EVERY EVENING.
Messrs. Mevnell and Gunn's Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH, in
HER LOVE AGAINST THE
The Dramatic Rage of the
last London Season.
Plan at Allan’s.
WORLD.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
" Lessee : Mr. Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HERBERT FLEMMING’S
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
IN OJ TVT \ Dramatisation of “THE VICAR OF
V XYX, WAKEFIELD,” by W. G. Wills—By
arrangement with executors of the late Sir Henry Irving.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
w
IRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES IHE B „ ES I LL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Amusements.
B ,JOU c , THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
hole Lessee : Mr.. Wm. Anderson,
THURSDAY, JAN. 9th, FRIDAY, JAN. 10th,
Last 2 Performances of THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 11th,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
COMPANY in the Great Dramatic Success.
HER LUCK IN LONDON.
Prices 35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s.
Susiness Announcements.
DO YOU
LOVE MUSIC?
If you do (and the man who does
not, according to Shakspeare, is
“fit for strategems, treasons and
spoils ’) you will find no music-
maker so easy to buy, so easy to
listen to as the genuine
EDISON Phonograph
And
Gold-Moulded Records
Any dealer will be pleased to play
you the latest selections—Free of
Charge.
If you do not know where there is
one, write us and we will tell you.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
rTIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
JL Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
Government Notices.
Department of Taxation, Custom House,
Circular Quay,
Sydney, 18th December, 1907.
IN THE MATTER OF THE LAND AND
INCOME TAX ASSESSMENT ACT OF
1895, AND THE ACTS AMENDING
THE SAME.
"VT OTICE is hereby given, under section 30 of
J the Land and Income Tax Assessment Act
of 1895, that Returns of Income received during
the year 1907 for the purposes of the assessment
of Income Tax for the year 1908 are required to be
furnished to the Commissioners of Taxation, at
their Office, Custom House, Circular Quay, Syd-
ney, on or before the first day of February , 1908,
and all persons who are in receipt of income, and
all persons liable under the provisions of the above
Acts in any representative capacity to furnish
returns for the purposes aforesaid, are hereby
informed that the prescribed Forms of Returns
are now available and (except those for companies)
may be obtained on application at any Post Office,
Police Office, Custom, House, Railway Station, and
the Office of any Clerk of Petty Sessions in New
South Wales, Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street,
Sydney, or at the Office of the Department of Taxa-
tion, Custom House, Circular Quay, Sydney.
Forms for Companies can be obtained on appli-
cation at the Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street,
Sydney, or at the Taxation Office, Custom House,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or
profession on their own account are required to
furnish Income Returns irrespective of the amount
of their income ; but unless demanded by notice
in writing from the Commissioners of Taxation, a
return of Income in the case of a person in receipt
of salary or wages only, and who has not previously
been a taxpayer, is not required if the gross
annual amount of such salary or wages, together
with any other taxable income, does not exceed
£lOO.
All employers of labor, whether they themselves
are liable to make Income Tax Returns or not,
are required to furnish to the Commissioners of
Taxation the name, occupation, and address of
each and every employee whose salary or wage
for the year 1907 aggregated £l6O or upwards.
Public attention is particularly called to
the following facts, viz.: that a penalty not
exceeding Twenty pounds is imposed on any
person neglecting to furnish the Return
required of him within the time above men-
tioned, and that any person failing to furnish such
Return is not relieved from liability to the
penalty by reason only that a notice to furnish
the Return may not have been received by, or
that the prescribed Form may not have been de-
livered to, such person.
The attention of owners of taxable lands subject
to mortgage is invited to the necessity of furnish-
ing the requisite particulars concerning every such
mortgage, in order that they may derive the benefit
of any deduction to which they may be entitled in
respect of the interest on the mortgage of their
lands, including improvements thereon. Without
these particulars the Commissioners will not be
able to make any such deduction from the Land
Tax chargeable on the unimproved values of the
lands.
Forms of the prescribed Return (Form K) may
be obtained on application at the Offices of the
Commissioners of Taxation, or the Commissioner
for Stamp Duties, and should be furnished on or
before the first day of February, 1908, before men-
tioned.
L. S. SPILLER. )
R. N. JOHNSON, V
C. J. SAUNDERS
Commissioners
of
Taxation.
N.B.—Particular attention is called to the
observations and directions with the Forms of
Return.
2c 6
PRISM FIELD CLASSES
with Enhanced Stereoscopic Effect.
Ocular distance.
X 6,
£6
XB,
£6 I Os.
Enlarged objective distance.
XI2,
£9 ss.
X 6,
Stalking,
£7 I Os.
NEW MODELS
for Army, Marine, Travel, Sport, Stalking.
Brilliant Definition
Great Lig-nt Intensity
Extensive Field
embodied in a higher degree.
Ask for Prospectus T 96.
Mechanical Precision
Stability
T ropics-proof
Berlin
Frankfurt o. M.
Hamburg:
St. Petersburg:
Vienna
Obtainable from all Opticians and from
CARL ZEISS, LONDON W.
JENA
29 Margaret Street.
Regent Street.
HOW YOUTHFUL APPEARANCE MAY BE RETAINED.
Exceptional Opportunities for our Readers.
'What is the cry that now goes up, that now rings from one end of the land to the
other, which is shouted demonstratively by employers and wailed in melancholy fashion
by employees ? Nothing less than “Too old at forty.” And in nowise is this manifested
more greatly than in the increasing baldness and greyness which has afflicted humanity.
Take a hundred typical men and women of to-day, and what do you find —that nine-
tentbs of these will show an alarming and significant ejtent of hair weakness and
deterioration!
Have you ever given a thought to the important fact that all such hair weakness finds
a responsive and echoing counterpart in the features. That the lack of nutrition and
virility which saps the hair growth has a parallel influence on the lines and looks of the face.
Take your typical bald-headed man —he has generally furrowed cheeks and brows !
Take your typical hair-weakened woman —she shows more wrinkles and marks of age on
her face than does her sister whose hair is i/\ and natural.
Is there a “ way out ? ” .Most undoubtedly; and that “ way out ”is now being placed
prominently before the British Public, for the proprietors of Edwards’ “Harlene”—the
most renowned, powerful, and celebrated hair restorer and stimulant ever produced—not
only assert that in “ Harlene ” will be found the means of transforming weak, disordered,
stagnant hair growth into activity and health, but they back this assertion by offering a
special gift-bottle of this great hair-specific to everyone who acknowledges the need for
such help, for the purpose of a personal test.
Dignitaries from Royalty downwards have expressed their admiration of the efficacy
of “ Harlene,” and the perusal of the list of well-known names who have endorsed its
claims places it on a pedestal far above all other preparations.
Have you not the highest interest in your personal appearance ? Examine yourself,
and see if the fault is not in your hair. That is the “ weakness," and in this free offer
is indicated the “ way out.”
When this special bo tie is finished you can procure your supplies from all chemists
and stores the world over.
— FORM OF APPLICATION.
To Week's Test Dept., Edwards’ Harlene Co., 95-96 High Holborn, London, W.C.
Please forward me, as per your offer mentioned above, the special gift bottle
of " ' Harlene ” necessary for the one week's free personal test to which the article
refers. I enclose three penny stamps to cover postage. Mention tiame of paper.
Name
Address
The “PEERLESS”
COLUMBIA GRAPH -O-PHONE
Uses all Standard Size Records and
Special “HALF-FOOT” Records.
Price £lO.
Fitted with the wonderful “ LYRIC ”
REPRODUCER and extra sensitive
RECORDER for taking Records at home.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. Gen’l.,
255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
London, New York,
Paris, Berlin,
St. Petersburg',
Milan, &c.
p
,i*s?
pgill
RAF
'-VJ
flechanically
Perfect and
Elegant
Design.
Send for Catalogue
“B,” which £ives full
description
of this
Splendid
Machine.
A whiff of the old days when the Eureka
men fought the first Australian fight for freedom
has floated down to Melbourne through the claim
of Michael Tuohy, of Ballarat, for compensation
for the “loss of one of the best golden holes ever
sunk in the Eureka.’’ Tuohy, now over 80, is the
last of the band of pioneers tried for treason in
1854-55—the men whom R. D. Ireland and B. C.
Aspinall successfully defended without fee or
reward. The old warrior says he had just dis-
covered a golden hole when he was arrested and
held for four months pending trial, and when he
got back the beautiful rich wash had disappeared.
Of course, his “ claim ” is as hopeless as the other
was when he got back to it, but Bent might
find many less deserving objects to spend a trifle
on.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melkournk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. r t a o. ™
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Rational Rank,
” * LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59,000 0 0
Interminable neposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial (Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Qorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES'BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield. .
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.. ~ £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
5'
&
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3NT.S. W.
(l)ontdepietefl.ii|.(;o.,[t(l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEHEAGH Sr„ 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
'The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq. J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jkssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
Gener alMan ager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN A I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEI.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
M 412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) u 0
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esq., 0.M.U., Vice Chairman; John Gnoe, Esq.;
Hon J. M- Pratt, XI.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES DOR ROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
». ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
|d - K B3 t book of Australian humor,” 4s. GJ.
Shipping.
HXT. 33. 3Li.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
MANILA 11th FEBRUARY.
PRINZ WALOEMAR . .. 10th MARCH.
Unsurpassed Seag-oine: Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
fhe |oyal Bank of Queensland
LIMIT Kit. ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £407,581 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69.000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office.:
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN
‘MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
I A. Simpson
IN. Allan ..
| R. McKilliam
Noon. Jan. 31
Noon. Feb. 28
Noon, Mar. 27
London
Cape or Durban
* Twin Screw.
FARES : Srd Class
Saloon. 3rd Class.
From £57 .. £l6 Os Co £2O Os.
ne or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 Ds.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £l2O los.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststa
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to sail about 22nd January.
AFRIC, to sail about 21st February.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
FARES —Capetown or Durban
London
New fork, &c.
Only One Class of
£,15 15 0 to £24 3 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
l)<tlyet I/ and ComptiUf/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
F HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo ,to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. **
AND
THE ISLANDS,
pwrts), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
Banking.
Bank of fleui South Ulales.
Established 1817.
Head Offiee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. £2,425,400 0 0
In course of Payment 74,600 0 0
£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. ». 1.530,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,530,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. C. K. MacKbllar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
t Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
Auditors : ( William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office-64 Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. 1,410,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,610,000
London Office: 4 Thn«adneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
' C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
MILLERS
ms.
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ =
Length, i 2 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Honey
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tins Bulletin.] [3
CANADSAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
The Magnificent New Twin-Screw Steamer
M ARAM A
leaves Sydney, March 16 ; Brisbane, March 18.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managin'; Agents, George-street, Sydney.
m
Ui-i—— —
‘ —*4aL, >
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, B.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia —
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE” j
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd*, 374 George St.* Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
Hotels, &.C.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon afield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
A- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by train. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Shipping. ,
THE ADELAIHE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian}
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
S.S. Yongala, Friday,
January 17.
S.S. Grantala. Saturday,
February 1.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Innamincka, Jan. 11.
S.S. Marloo, Jan. 18.
Jfest mid Clie*i'l>G**t lioute to (xohlllef *ts.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £S2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
F.—H. —S.
F ederal-Houlder-Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
“DORSET”
11,000 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 28th January.
~ ~ ~ Melbourne ~ Ist February.
~ ~ ~ Adelaide ~ 4th February.
FOR
London, Manchester
and Liverpool
(via SUEZ CANAL).
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON,
MANCHESTER
and LIVERPOOL J
£49 10s. £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
To be followed by other similar twin-screw steamers
every 28 days.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Managing Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 10 a.m., SATURDAY,
January 11.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.nt., SATUR-
DAY, January 18.
BUNINYONG. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 25.
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
BURRUMBEET, 5 p.rn., TUES-
DAY, February 11.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
January 11.
ALLINGA, 5 p.in., TUESDAY,
January 14.
COOMA. 2 p.n:., SATURDAY.
January 18.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
tsJHj
iys lusty
r.’
EL
George: hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
MOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.


PATERNOSTER’S
warn pills ■■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Con , 3ssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0. , SYDNEY.
%
V*
%
#
I MORRIS'S 1
IMPERIAL
.EYE
ULntmeh?
CURES
N /v\ /
V
\
\
V.
Beware!
The Drugs!
Beware the pills, the powders, the tonics. If they do
not actually injure your nerves and ruin your stomach,
they deceive you into giving time to wasting disease,
nerve exhaustion, debility or rheumatic conditions to
work further ravages in your constitution, because they
hide the real trouble by affecting the symptoms. They
give false strength or deaden the nerves, so that pain
ceases, but they do not make real strength or remove the
cause of the pain. They make you feel better when you
are really growing worse. Death lurks in a remedy which
hides the danger. Don’t imitate the foolish ostrich, who
hides his head and thinks he is safe. Don’t hide the real
danger from yourself by means of drugs which stimulate
or deaden the nerves, and which ruin the stomach, and al-
low the inevitable total collapse or incurable state to come
on unchecked. If you suffer from Nervousness,
Exhaustion, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Stomach, Kidney or Bowel WeaKness, Loss of Vitality, Lack of Vigor,
Varicocele or Rupture, use Nature’s cure—Electricity—as applied with the celebrated
DR- McLHUGHLIN S ELECTRIC BELT
and it will cure you if you are curable. Electricity is nerve food, no disease or weakness can exist in a body that is
plentifully supplied with it. Our Belt will not burn, sting or shock, although the heating, vitalizing thrill can be felt all through
the body as it pours its life-giving power into the nerves, blood and tissues, building them up and driving pain, weakness and
disease out of the system. . . . Our Belts are sold in every civilized country m the world. The thousands of
testimonials we have received from all parts of Australia, and the many years of success we have had here, are absolute proof
that Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is the standard. We have many imitators but no equals. Don’t be misled by
false “Free Belt” offers, or the extravagant claims of those who promise an impossible appliance as a bait for a
20-guinea course of drugs. Don’t take Drugs ; use Electricity alone as we apply it and you will have
nothing to regret. Ovir prices are witHin the reach of all.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published ail illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
It gives the prices and all information about the belts. We will
mail it, together with some of our testimonials, FREE, post paid to
all who write us, and our specialists will give you a diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict confidence.
Office hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
Castlereag'h and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your P'ree Illustrated Book, Testi-
monials and Price List.
Name
Address
CO
UJ
iBBHKHHHHB
i i i
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy For
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
X i„ co l,„. fat „ n rnprlirine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough. Difficulty of
tj tv w „ Pain nr Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to tho~e who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
hi in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
“,r r b r r m « to c" st , 't b r:Zs££ have been properly ,reatelw m - e
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,’* with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneticial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
r.hild and the most aged person.
*
#
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
Wenger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“ Jay bell ” (from Brisbane) tells a yarn :
We bought a load of long, hush firewood at our house
the other evening. We didn’t want the blessed thing any
more than a camel wants a sand-bag to put him in mind
of the scarcity of oases in the Sahara, hut the horny-
handed vendor stood inside the front gate and talked us
into a state of stupor on the merits of the load. He com-
menced his peroration just as the fag-end of the final
sunbeam withdrew below the horizon, and he might have
continued to the present time to fill the atmosphere with
his argument-in-chief if I hadn't applied the closure by
buying his barrow-load of frayed lumber for two hob.
I paid him with a perfectly sound florin, and realising
that he held the equivalent of eight goodly portions of
wet beer he became reminiscent. He recited of his ex-
perience of a brown whirlwind in a pub in the Syrio-Indian
quarter of the city :
“ ‘Lor blue me, Mag,’ I says, the other night, when me
an’ me doll was goin’ inter the Doolap for a barth o’
purge. ‘Step back,’ I says, ‘ and let this here Dago typhoon
sweep acrost the passage ’armlessly, or bli’ me, it’ll blow
a draft through yeh and cruel yeh corsets.’ ’N’, before I
kl jew which side I was lookin’, I was right inter the
middle of a Asheeatic whirlwind, with 17 mad nnillers
scrapin’an’rippin’up skin an”air quicker ’n’ a double
action sossidge-mill on a busy Saturdee mornin’. First
thing 1 I feels was a bunk in the fair centre o’ me dough-
box, what disconnected me wind in seven ticks under an
even second. O’ course I ’ad me ’ands up, but, with me
bellus busted, I couldn’t spar for a openin’, an’ I fell like
dead meat off a ’ook.
“ The 17 mad mullers, o’ course, did a walkin match
acrost me neck, an’ one greasy, black cow wipes ’is bluc.her
eel fair over me intake, an’ pushes four o’ me ivories down
inter me. But I bucks up game, an’ rolls over and makes
a pontoon o’ me back for the whole bloomin’ redgiment of
Mammylukes to crost over on the return journey. ’N a
they crost over, too, my oath, fightin’ each other like
’ell’s blazes was burnin’ ’oles in their briskets. Lor’
lumme, I did kick ! I think I must ev kicked about seven
of the main army inter Asherantee or up against the
walls of Palistine before I gets me wind back proper.
Kick ! Lumme, I kicked like a old man emu learnin’ his
young fam’ly the meanin’ of Pertection.
“ But the Abbysvvinian ’ost kept on pushin’ its advanc
guard acrost me prosterate form to overtake the retreatin’
Dahominy gladdinators ; an’ when the last of the Abby-
swinians ’d get over the Dahominies’d chase ’em hack
again, swearin’ an’ screamin’ in their foreign language
somethin’ awful. I begin to think I was goin’ to chuck a
seven the wa,y I was feelin’, all bruised an’ gravel-rashed j
an I was bitin’ the sawdust with me tongue hangin’ out,
’elpless, when me doll takes in the situation an’ bogs into
the mill. There ain’t no use to tell yeh what a tart can
do at bustin’ up a toorneyment, but'when Mag sees me a
lyin’ there on the floor, with the footprints of the
swarmin’ East all over me flobber, she never said nothink,
but just into it’quick ’n’ lively. Blime ! yeh should ev
seen what was left of the onrushin’ ’ordes of proud Tn-
doostan, an’ ’aughty Palistine, an’ glorious Erabia, an’
warlike Asherantee do a smoke out of that beer joint
like greased lightnin’ when me eliner got to ’em.
“ Every one of ’em ’ad me doll’s finger-prints on their
bloomin’ phizogs, an’ the whiskers of ancient Aysher was
wet with blood an’sweat, an’ ’ad the ribbons an’’airpins
all torn out when my little, seven-stone-nine bit o’ muslin
finished wipin’ ’er nails on the last brown swob what
skooted for the street.
“My oath, it was a terrible swift two minutes for Moo-
hommed an’ ’is profit, an’ Aller an’ Ishmeal, an’ all the
rest of them peanut blokes from the land of Mobe what
made ’istry for the Noo Testermint.
“ Mag’s ’ot stuff alright ! ”
Then the wood-merchant ascended his chariot and wal-
loped his raw-boned steed into Che blackness of the
night.
“James Truthful”: Here is a fragment
of theology overheard in a tram-car. It was evi-
dently the end of along discussion. The excitable
small man was making all the running, whilst his
companion contented himself with an occasional
monosyllable. “ And what I say is this,” pro-
tested the small man, “ a good Christian wouldn’t
speak ill of anyone —not of the Devil himself.
Give the Devil his due, I say. How can yon
expect any consideration from the Devil ? What
consideration have you ever shown him ? ” The
other man appeared too much upset in his ideas to
have a retort handy.


WANTED TO BUY.
THE TOBACCO COY. of S.A. LTD., Adelaide,
South Australia, are .. .
Buyers of Cigar and Tobacco Leaf.
READ ALL ABOUT THE GREAT
Thaw Case
2/6
The only Book published
giving a Graphic and
Truthful Account of the
Most Sensational Tragedy
and Trial the world has
ever seen.
2/6
300 PAGES of Fascinating Reading.
30 PAGES of Illustrations
“ Truth is Stranger than Fiction ”
Modern times reveal no parallel to the Thaw
Ca-e in its various phases Shakespeare’s
wonderful creations of fancy contain no
more thrilling features nor more humanizing
passages in their philosophic application than
have i een disclosed by this life tragedy of love,
hate, villainy, perfidy and outraged innocence.
All the emotions known to the human heart
enter into it. ranging from boundless, mercenary
cupidity and indescribable cruelty to self-sacrifi-
cing love that has found no test too severe. The
author of tnis book has dealt very thoroughly
and exhaustively with this remarkable case,
giving a thrilling account of a young girl’s
struggle for fame and fortune: how she formed
the acquaintance of Harry Thaw and Stanford
White, Harry Thaw’s sensational courtship and
marriage; thrilling story of the murder ; and a
full and interesting detailed account of the won-
derlul trial, the deience, the stirring speeches of
Jerome and Delma, which moved the jurors, and
the closing scenes of the great trial. The book
is splendidly written, and reads like a novel. The
published price was 5/-, but we are going to let
them go for an advertisement for HALF-PRICE,
and upon receipt of 2/6 we will send a copy to
any address in the world, and pay postage our-
selves. You should write straight away, as we
have had a tremendous sale for the book, which
can only be obtained in Australasia from us direct
A. J. SMITH &. CO.
12-14 Hunter St., SYDNEY
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. for Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEWD
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C- :
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I.'A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
•v
mmkf
r* .-s
m
3 Peerlessloiief -BBt
•iinnvalled For the Complex!on, ' \ ~
>Soffening& BeauFiFyin^fheShin.
W". i. • %
A, . 4 ■.4
|OLD MEbAL. PARIS.' I9QO.
jjgGRAND PRIX.'STLOUIS.ICJCH
t • %s
OF ALL CHEMISTS
?* PERFUMERS, ;
•»v
Made by
F. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H.R. H. The
Grand Duke
of Baden.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Store Keepers.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pfize Medals.,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works : Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
DR. J. GOLDS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
/lets like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND— 2/9, & 4/6
jf you want
long, thick
hair, hair
that is really
beautiful,
i which it grows,
must have attention.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
feeds the flesh tissues of the
scalp with good hair-growing
energy. That’s its special mis-
sion. It makes strong, healthy
scalps, and strong, healthy scalps
grow strong, healthy hair. Be
sure you get Barry’s.
you must
nourish the
source fron
Your scalp
Reuter’s Soap Cures Eczema
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street* Sydney
We have one of the best stocks of these
it is possible to find, at prices from 255.
to £lOO and over. Write us when you
want one, as we have all the newest styles.
NO. E 7058. f A
15ct. Gold and Pearls, DS.
No. F4553.—15ct. Gold and Finest Z*o I Ar-
Quality Pearls, Z-7 IUS.
No. 149 A.
loot. Gold, Set Fine Diamond,
No. G 8547. —9ct. Gold, Set Pearls jCD T_
and Amethysts, ZLZ, Zb.
No. GSI39. lA_
Oct. Gold Loose-Link Bangle, lvb.
.1 ? I XU
We forward by registered post daily on receipt of remit=
tance. The most careful attention to Country Orders.
No. P 1629. —Magnificent Dark Amethyst and jCIT in
Finest Quality Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Bracelet, •£. 1Z IU S
No. F 683.
9ct. Gold, with Safety Snap,
'A
No. 134 A.
Xsct. Gold, and Fine Range of Opals,
, £lO.
No. G 6499. £\ tn
9ct. Gold, £-1 IUS.
Catalogues of Watches, Jewellery,
Silver and Silver-plated Goods sent
free on request* Your Address on
a Post Card will bring them.
9ct. Gold and Fine
Amethyst Set Link
and Padlock
Bangle,
Order by .
Mail if . .
arable t o
call. . . .
Money . .
back if we
fail to . .
please you.
Our stock includes Nellie Stewart’s,
Plain Bamboo, Chased Bamboo, Curbs,
Link Bangles, Band, Gem Set; in fact,
we have every style that is popular.
No. 02358.—90 t. Gold, Secret Snap, zTD 1 A
15ct. Gold, £4.
a
a
No. 146. n a ir
15ct. Gold, Diamonds and Sapphires, IDS.
No. G 1641. £'~i in
9ct. Gold, Pearls and Rubies, £«D IUS.
No. G 5203. £1 n r l
9ct. Gold, Pearls and Topaz, /S. DU.
15ct. Gold, Diamond and Rubies, £4 7s. 6d.
“ Loco When the railway line approach-
ing North Melbourne was the haunt of the gentle
goat, that aggregate animal became very learned
in railway lore. When eating the ballast between
the rails Nanny and Billy would watch the signals
near by, and, as one was lowered for a train,
the goats cleared off that particular line.
Also, as an additional precaution, they always
fed towards the way a train would approach,
according as they were on an “up ” or “ down ”
line. Once or twice, when something happened
that necessitated “single line” working, several
goats nearly got run over by the first train that
rushed them from the wrong direction. But they
soon dropped to what had happened, and kept
clear until they saw the “ pilotman ” ride over
the line. Then they knew that ordinary working
had been resumed.


THE BEST AND
Purest Medicine
EVER MADE.
Don’t be without a bottle. You
will not regret it. Try it to-day.
What makes you tremble so?
Your Nerves are all unstrung, and
NEED a gentle, soothing TONIC
to assist nature to repair the damage
which your excesses have caused-
Sulphur Bitters
IS NOT A
CHEAP
RUM OR
WHISKY
DRINK
to be taken by the glass like other
preparations which stimulate only to
DESTROY. If yon have FAILED
to receive any benefit from other
medicines or doctors, do not despair.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
In all cases of stubborn, deep seated
diseases, Sulphur Bitters is the best
medicine to use. Don’t wait until
to-morrow, try a bottle to-day.
ir>
=r
Summer
Beverage is
' Mo ntse r rat ’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine “MONTSERRAT
< It is nice to do the
< necessary cleaning with
Calverts
\ Carb6lic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its
) pleasant flavour and the feeling of <
> freshness left in the mouth, and of <
course you will soon see how |
) splendidly, how easily, and how )
> thoroughly it cleans. )
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores. >
i Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.C
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE UIfiTNiENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, =O, Lambeth Road. Loudon. Eng.
est Pipes
DeLIGHTFULPIPES
Thais what
CUAR/\NT££>^
means '
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free,
THE
I
0
i
t
i
. The „!y! ilk , Foods cloBel Y approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
m towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary,
The “Allenburys" Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate thev
are alike suitable. 1
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON.
* Bridge Sts., Sydney
TWO W AU
n
M
f
£9
#
#
4
It acts like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago &c
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad who have (dven
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacv. °
SM by Chemists all over the World, in bottles, Is. 1 \d. ; 20z., 2s. 9 d. ; 40z., 4s. 6 d. each.
CAU ~ E ery bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
iMepnant, on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing' proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “ Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles ol
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
c
“For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that ‘Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
For safe by leading: Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for you. If not obtainable locally
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE.—The materials in FROOTOIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY and consist,
amongst other ingredients, of the active principle of each of FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS
and ROOTS, so combined and proportioned in a particular way that a far BETTER result is
obtained than from an ordinary aperient.
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
Xshe LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
"WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
"the MAINE
PiFle
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
CANT
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing tliethumßscrew loc
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and n
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, * Bln -
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 30C
yards, weight 2|lb., fitted with plain V back sight 12/6
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ... 15-
Postage on one Rifle-ls 3d, N.S.W. ; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP' NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boo)t Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of'Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answeredfin plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Ib. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s fid posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prioes Poet Paid.
No Matter what Cook you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your oash. Ettabliihed 25 Ytars.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦ -
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Garbs, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book or Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, If* 9ck Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alb Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
N
is the great English
face cream you ought
to try.
If you would be freckle free
and keep your complexion
through the hot Australian summer,
you must use Oatine. It will take the
grime that soap and water cannot reach from
the pores, will keep your skin fair and soft
and prevent it drying and cracking.
Oatine is pure, made from fresh clean
healing oats and free from mineral salts or
animal fats. No matter how hot the weather
it will not go bad. It does not grow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Every Australian woman who values a
clear complexion should get Oatine now. It
is the only thing that will enable her to keep
her complexion permanently in the dry
Australian climate. ■
In dainty white jars, 7/9; or larae si?e
(four times the amount). 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get a jar to-day.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to everv home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where tlirs
aretruuble„onie.
Clean, i eat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
s-old by
Wholesale
ruggi s t s,
Groce s and
Hardware
Dealers,
35
among whom aro:—
Svdnev— Anthony Hordern & Sons; Elliott. Bros., Ltd-
O'Connell St.; F. H Faulding 60 Co., O'Connell St.;
Washine. H Soul Pattenson & Co., 2(18, Pitt St.;
Australian Brur Co., O'Cnnne' 1 St.: Payers Allimrt
Proprietary, O'Connell St : S. Hoffhune & Co.. Pitt Pt.:
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co., Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., D.S.A"
DYSON’S “Faet’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
lightful and wickedly true.”*
“De-
JIM. C.
NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES'
NEW Ciub Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. COI\N.. U. S. A.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
*
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
a w h eel
z The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
15he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
Sp Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, wrlttep
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d
POST FREE, j£l per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austkalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
um
m
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR.
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
GARMENTS.
The Healthiest and Most Comfortable Fabric for
the Australian Climate.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO
CELLULAR OUTFITTERS
(Solk Agents inN.S.W.), 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect, or write for samples and
Illustrated Catalogue.


Note
Trade Mark.
XASttc;*
"tiiufittoa
ivnirtYH
V
m
n-
m
“NATURES PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently. Acts Pleasantly.
Acts Beneficially.
Acts Truly as a Laxative.
Overcomes Habitual Constipation,
speedily relieves
Biliousness, Indigestion,
and all disorders arising from
Sluggishness of Liver, Bowels & Kidneys.
Sold by all Chemists throughout Australia in two
sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday.
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. 1J to 25 H. P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalog FREE.
Our Special 3 H.P. Marine Motor - £2l
» 11 „ „ • £52
Freight charges prepaid.
PALMER BROS.,
Cos Cob,
Conn., U.S.A.
Correspondence invited from thoroughly reliable firms to
take up Sole Agency in Australia and New Zealand
for Palmer Gasoline Motors.
■rm
m
THE fICCORPEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Aecordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Aecordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Potary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, etc, 210 Queen St., Brisbane
YOUR PAT REPUCED!
WITH NO ILL AFTER-EFFECTS, AND WITHOUT
DETENTION FROM DAILY ROUTINE!!
WE can turn your present Ugly, Unshapely Outlines
into lines of beauty and grace, giving you—instead of
your present cuinberous, ungainly figure, one that
will be neat, trim, and symmetrical.
“ FATCURE”
the absolutely NON-poisonous,' pleasant-to-take fat-
reducer, cures Obesity and overcomes Corpulency. The
worst cases permanently cured in a few weeks. The
cure is permanent and lasting. Satisfaction guaranteed.
NO RETURN OF FAT AFTER TREATMENT IS DISCONTINUED.
The effects of this treatment are permanent and v'
lasting with absolutely no ill after-effects. X
I
ik
S t
ALL PATIENTS REPORT IMPROVED GENERAL HEALTH.
Manager Watworth Co. Swan Creek, Q’ld.
Dear Sir. —When I began to use your treatment some months ago I weighed 18 stone. During the first
13 days I lost 15 pounds, and in the first month I had lost 22 pounds. During the first three months I lost
three stone eight pounds, and since then have been reduced to normal.
My health is better now that I am no longer fat. Yours truly. Mrs. McCLURE.
SEND 2d. STAMP FOR FREE SAMPLE.
Enclose a 2d. stamp and let us send you—under closed
cover without marks—a Free Sample of “Fatcure” and
our book giving particulars. CALL, if convenient, and
let us explain our method. Office hours : 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
IShe Watworth Co., Suite J,
(Entrance also Market St.) CASTLEREACH ST., SYDNEY.
No Letter necessary with
this Signed Coupon.
Name
Address
Marama Papalangi (White
Lady).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SUPERLATIVELY lauding the naiad of the
Isles,
The tourist people boom her, her “winning
wavs and wiles ”;
I catch the gush-word “peerless,” and, contra-
dicting, cite
Marama papalangi, my lady who is white.
To each his admiration ; not every fancy clings
To “beautiful brown women”; the big, bare,
bouncing things
Are over-stout and stupid, while she is slim and
bright,
Marama papalangi, my lady who is white.
Marama papalangi ! I reckon one must dwell
In countries of her absence to recognise her spell.
lis mostly when we miss her we learn her worth
aright,
Marama papalangi, my lady who is white.
The “ dusky mate ” arrangement is merely for the
few ;
The caste-respecting many remember and are true
To her who, sweet and tender, still mothers men
of might,
Marama papalangi, my lad}’ who is white.
So, when the kava circles around our squatting
throng,
With all the ordinances that to its use belong,
I bow to Andi Ana, but toast my heart’s delight,
Marama papalangi, my lady who is white.
Rebutting all romancers, the naked truth re-
mains ;
She brooks no rival near her, uniquely gifted,
reigns
A queen among the races, all other hues despite,
Marama papalangi, my lady who is white.
Marama papalangi, the woman of them all
Beyond a peradventure, most potent to enthrall:
The nicest fruit of Nature, and quite her fairest
sight.
Marama papalangi, my lady who is white.
N.S.W.
TALAFEEAU.
The Dingo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
RIGHT here let me say to those who sling
mud at Cams Dingo that he is a gentleman.
Not only does he belong to the higher
order of mammals—not only is he the highest type
of Australian animal—-but he is the only true wild
dog in the world, his insignia of distinction being
three pairs of molars in the lower jaw, whereas
all Asiatic breeds have only two. He is one of
the half-dozen varieties of placentals of this coun-
try, the others being the bats, rodents, dugongs,
whales, and seals. The noble kangaroo, the
sober wombat, the koala, and the frisky ’possum
must hide their inferior heads when he trots into
view. He is the Great Mogul of zoological society
here.
Nowadays wild dogs are of several colors, tan,
brindle, and black predominating, the result of
intermingling with tame dogs of camp and squat-
tage, and admitting into the brotherhood the
renegades of bush towns. The renegade, being
a perpetual curse, merits distinction. I therefore
christen him Cams Mongrelli. Though the
average domestic animal will do his utmost to kill
the warrigal, if set on and followed, he is just as
likely, if left alone, to rub noses and enter into
a compact to go bushranging together. Many
a high-class dog, whose character has heretofore
been irreproachable, has be "n led astray by a
dingo slut, and many a tame slut has been
abducted, and others visited on the chain, by the
denizens of the wild. I have known house-dogs
to wander into savagery after years of luxury and
good companionship. They begin by making
short excursions into the bush by themselves,
loping aimlessly about, and not infrequently they
develop a sudden lust for sheep-killing. Gradually
their lapses extend. They take to staying out at
night, returning about sunrise ; soon they make
two or three nights of it, then a week, a fortnight,
and finally they disappear altogether. They have
gone back to the primordial beast, and, adding
their long experience under man to the natural
instincts and cunning of the dingo, this new bush-
ranger is a scourge that requires genius to deal
with. His howl is a jarring discord, besides
which he mutilates the bark of the civilised race.
The true dingo is reddish-yellow or reddish-
brown in color, with pricked ears and a bushy
tail. He has a good eye, discerning objects at
a great distance. In low, grassy country he will
occasionally spring up on a high log or stump, and
take a careful survey of his surroundings. This
is his favorite coign of vantage when watching a
passing horseman. Like the myall, he is a smart
tracker, he notices the broken twig, the crushed
blade of grass, and the disturbed gibber, even
though he has not yet struck the scent. He has
also a sharp ear, a keen sense of smell, and a
somewhat epicurean palate. The demands of his
gastronomic department must be pressing before
he will touch the daintiest piece of fresh meat that
has been handled by man. In poisoning baits, it
is necessary to take care and not maul them.
The strychnine is placed in small incisions with
the knife-point; the bait, wrapped in clean paper,
is dropped into a tussock or bush by the side of
a cattle pad. After taking such a bait the dingo
makes for water, and seldom gets out of sight of
the hole before death supervenes. I have found
them dead at the water’s edge, and more than
once in the water.
Being a clean and astute animal, he much
prefers to kill his own meat, and where sheep are
plentiful he kills at least once a day, mostly about
sunset. He returns to his quarry early next
morning for breakfast, after which he never touches
it again. The boundary rider, knowing this,
carries a small bottle of strychnine in his pocket,
and whenever he surprises cams dingo at his prey,
poisons the carcase, and returns for an almost-
certain scalp on the morrow. Another method is
to poison a bone, and hang it to a fence or low
limb with copper wire. Some drag a trail with
the fresh paunch of a bullock, leaving it poisoned
on a favorite beat. Aniseed is also employed at
times for trailing. Others again bury baits and
traps, using a dog’s paw for rooting out and
covering up the holes. The dingo, more especi-
ally the hybrid, scenting these, thinks he has
struck the plant of one of his fellows, and with a
grin on his countenance starts scratching at once.
An old-time device for trapping was a deep hole
with a trap-door, and the lure was supplied by
short-chaining a slut on it for a while during the
day.
Even when reared among children from pup-
dom, and no matter how tame he may become, a
dingo can never be trusted ; though the natural
instinct may be long dormant in the dog, there is
always a hankering after his native wilds. This is
particularly noticeable at nightfall. Some squat-
ters use him for crossing purposes on account of
his sagacity and shepherding propensity, but the
half-bred product can’t be depended on. There
is an inborn tendency to kill for the mere sake of
killing, which is not a characteristic of the true-
bred dingo. One of the best watch dogs I ever
saw was a hybrid. His specialty was guarding
the poultry. He knew the language of fowls, and
required no telling to “look out” when an
enemy was around. He would follow and bark
at a hawk that was a mere speck in the atmo-
sphere. He put the ducks into their house every
evening, and if a hen was pecking around after
sunset, he wanted to know why. But when he
was two years old, he said good-bye to the hens
and the rooster one night, and vanished in the
wilderness.
In the daytime, dingo packs are seldom seen ;
but, if plentiful in the neighborhood, they collect
and travel together at night. They do not bark,
though at times they pick up an imitation bark
from station dogs. The signal call is a sharp,
snappish yelp and a short howl that breaks
suddenly on the night air, and dies away to
nothing, having a far-away sound that lingers in
the ear. It can be heard at a greater distance
than the much noisier howl of the domestic dog.
It is a dismal sort of howl, yet with nothing of
melancholy in it ; it simply fills you with a sense
of utter loneliness.
Being in the habit of using his brains and saving
his legs, the dingo is not swift. With a fair start,
an ordinary dog can overtake him easily, but, if
unassisted, the former very often gets the worse of
the resultant scrimmage. In running down a
kangaroo he exhibits great patience and perseve-
rance. Though the marsupial is much fleeter, the
has more stamina ; and, even if he is a mile
behind at an early stage of the long chase, his
steady, swinging gallop will ultimately wear down
the speedier animal. Just watch him pelting along
on the scent, his nose down, his tongue lolling
out, perhaps several minutes in the rear of his
quarry, but determined and confident of success,
and you will admit that he is a hunter of no mean
calibre. He is very tenacious of life, and has
been known to recover after being dropped with a
stirrup-iron and scalped ; and he has often escaped
by feigning death. Though he mostly makes for
cover on sighting an enemy, in famine tidies he
is daring enough, having to his record the attack-
ing of footmen and horsemen, and the killing of
sheep and cattle dogs.
While droving down the Maranoa in Novem-
ber, 1895, I witnessed a scene that well illustrated
his cuteness and strategy. A little off the road
was a cow with a young calf, and two dingoes
were dodging round her, and nipping the calf
when chance offered. Presently one took up a
position in front to draw the cow, and as soon
as she charged, the other darted between and cut
off the calf. Five other dogs, that had been lying
low for the opportunity, now sprang up and sur-
rounded it. They displayed all the skill of ex-
perienced stockmen in their endeavor to drive it
away, blocking it promptly when it attempted to
break in any but one direction, all cool and
calculating, uttering no sound. With frantic
bellowing, the cow came running back. Three
dogs essayed to block her, whilst two others made
desperate efforts to slay the calf. One had gripped
it by the flank, another by the throat, and they
had almost borne it to the ground when the cow
rushed through the triumvirate and rescued it.
Five of the number now drew aside ; and the
remaining pair recommenced their former tactics.
At this stage I arrived on the scene with a great
clatter and a loud yell, and the calf-hunters
dispersed.
A similar case was witnessed by two stockmen
near Nanango (Q.). They were brumby hunting
on Taromeo, and on riding to the bank of Paradise
Creek beheld in the hollow below a cow and calf
being attacked by two dingoes. They cracked
their whips, and immediately about 20 more dogs
sprang up out of the long grass, forming a complete
circle round the cow. They were a determined
lot, and were chased about with whips for several
minutes before they finally quitted the scene.
In April, 1896, I was travelling from Thargo-
mindah to Eromanga, and several times met
dingoes on the road. Instead of slinking off into
the bush, they would simply make a circuit round
me at a radius of 30 or 40 yards, and, coming up
behind, follow my horse’s track, sometimes for
over a mile. One day at noon I was dining with
some drovers near Mt. Margaret, when three
dingoes came close up to the waggonette. The
cook threw a bone, and after a little beating
about one of the trio approached and smelt it, but
did not pick it up. We pelted them with stones,
which they treated with disdain, merely springing
aside when necessary, and now and again trotting
(Continued on next page.)


SORE, ACHING FEET
Zam-Buk Balm Soothes and Heals.
ST,
C 5
Few escape the discomfort of undue perspira-
tion of the feet in Summer, and fewer still are
they who do not know the torture of blistered,
SO re and tender feet. Zam-Buk should be applied
to the feet night and morning, rubbing it in gent y
for a few minutes in order to promote greater cir-
culation. This treatment will be found delightfully
cooling and pleasant, and Zam-Buk will regulate
perspiration, cleanse the pores, soften hard coins,
S absolutely abolish all soreness. The fo lowing
testimony will interest sufferers from sore feet .
“ Being trSrta;: X eS'^'vS
Tynte-street, t or ’ Tjnon the application of Zam-Buk
° W fte v SUff ßl,n,The sooth ny effect is wonderful, and in a short
scalds’, U ete? r Thave pleasure in recommending Zam-Buk to
fellow-sufferers.”
SUN-BURN,
Prickly Heat, &c.
Summer’s heat and glare is told in all sorts
of skin troubles, from sunburn and prickly heat
to more serious disorders, caused by excessive per-
spiration or dryness, such as Irritation and Hashes.
The hands, face and neck are the parts liable
to suffer from disfiguring sun-burn and smarting
patches. In the armpits and other joints, sores may
arise from chafing and excessive perspiration. Hegu-
lar anointings with Zam-Buk —the balm that just suds
the season and the skin —are absolutely essential to
skin-health just now.
Mr. J. Parker, of 145 Alice-street, Newtown, Sydney, says
“ Last summer a rash broke out all over my body, and the irritation
caused me to be constantly scratching it. I bathed my body with
different solutions, but could gain no relief. Remembering I had
Zam-Buk in the house, I applied it to the rash, and, to my surprise,
after two applications all the fire and irritation disappeared. I continued the
treatment for two or three days, by which time the rash was completely
cured. My wife is also a great believer in Zam-Buk.
<
-JAI
&
4
RUB IT m I
Zam-Buk is invaluable
for sun-burn, prickly beat,
rash, sore feet, smarting
patches, mosquito bites,
cuts, bruises, anci all in-
juries to the skin. Of all
chemists and stores at
Is. 6d., or 3s. 6d. large
family pot (contains nearly
four times the Is. 6d.).
9
m
r 1
/;
7
V
I a missile to smell it. When we departed
;onvened a public meeting on the spot, and
;sed all the scents we had left there,
jrolific whelping place is the dunes of the
antina country, some of them being honey-
ed with holes, for the dingo burrows in the
here in a somewhat similar manner to the
Dat. Frequently the roof of a burrow
lere shell of compressed sand, and a horse
ing on it falls through with a sudden plunge,
vhere the burrowed ground is indicated, no
bred in the country can be forced to cross
The horse behaves similarly in the matter of
t warrens. Between August and November
are dug up in hundreds, as many as 40
s being obtained in a day by a couple of
ers.
ong the eastern coast dingoes breed in hollow
and dark mountain caverns. The most I
i in a litter was five, the least two ; but I
heard of 16 being found together. I never
knew the bitch to make any attempt to
id her young when molested by men. At
irst blow of the axe, if the exit is not blocked,
vill rush out and bolt into the bush, leaving
Drogeny to take care of themselves. In some
.nces, when thus hunted, she goes right away,
never returns for tidings of her pups. When
does return, if the pups have not been re-
ed, she removes them herself. In and about
2 logs and caverns there is always a great
itity of bones and feathers, dead lambs a.nd
il marsupials. In the dry interior the coming
going of the dingoes, like that of the birds,
;nds on the seasons. A favorite rendezvous is
the flood-waters of the Bulloo and I’aroo
rs, whence they diverge in all directions after
ry rains. They mostly follow a watercourse,
occupy from a fortnight to a month in passing
ugh each sheep run. Odd ones remain on the
:rent runs until forced by the next drought to
eat to the flood-water.
oon after the drought of 1896 had broken, I
ced two patches, one on each side of the
ndary fence of Whittabranah and Olive Downs,
each about an acre in extent, that were
Iden as bare as a claypan by ringing sheep,
ing round, I found several dead sheep outside
trodden ring. They were all partly eaten,
in various stages of decomposition, showing
t the flocks had been bailed up here a num-
of times, and one or two killed on each occa-
1. They had been worked along the timber-
;d creek to the trap. In proof of this, the
mdary-rider surprised two dingoes droving in
adjoining paddock the same season.
‘ One,” he said, “ was a big yaller brute ; the
er was smaller, with dark splashes about him.
ey’d lifted about 200 ewes, an ! were joggin
ng all serene, though a bit short-handed. lie
fellow seemed to be boss. When a sheep
ike out, the little chap would lope leisurely
;r it, keepin’ wide, an lookin’ back over his
mlder at the big chap ; an’ the big chap would
nd an’ watch him, an’ if he fiddled about much,
d sit down an’ pant like fury ; an , by n by,
d get up an’ fidget round, then squat down
lin an’ swear. ‘ Hang it all, Brindle, he d
>wl, ‘ chuck yerself round a bit, or we 11 be here
day.’ You could see it bristlin’ out of him.
was pretty sultry w'eather just then, an’ I think
indie, bein’ the rouseabout, had done most o
2 roundin’-up an’ steadyin’ at the start, an was
) tired to care if he got the sack. They weren t
dn’ a word to the sheep, just trottin to an fro,
’ keepin’ a lookout for squalls. I was on the
int of ridin’ out an’ demandin’ the waybill,
len the boss spotted me in the timber. He
opped short, shut his mouth up sudden, an
ired. ‘ Well, I’m d—d !’ he said, looked dis-
stedly at Brindle, then lit out for next week
thout givin’ delivery. ”
In Feb., 1898, in the same locality, I saw a
ngo approach a poverty-stricken ewe that was
mding alone on a flat. He trotted round her
dee, stopping and sniffing at her occasionally,
en gave a low howl, and trotted off. I drew
y stirrup and gave chase, but did not succeed in
riking him, as the horse, being a young one,
served sharply whenever I swung the iron. He
as heading for a patch of scrub just through the
nee, and though I crossed in front of him time
ter time, I couldn’t turn him off that course.
[e would dodge round me, and continue straight
1 at a swinging lope, his long red tongue lolling
at and his eyes bulging. When I rode in front,
e kept after'me, as though determined not to be
lrned off a bee-line course to that scrub. Many
f the old horses hereabouts are trained to gallop
n to a dingo, and strike him down with their
jrefeet. When I tried to ride over this one the
olt took exceptional pains not to tread on the
rute ; so he reached his haven of refuge without
ljury. Another day, on a flat in the same pad-
ock, I found two dingoes quietly shepherding a
aob of sheep, whilst a third was dodging about
eying to get a lamb on the outside.
The real dingo does not kill for killing s sake ;
.nd, unlike the half-breed, that will tear and mangle
. score of sheep just for amusement, he will leave
10 torn ones behind him if he can help it. The
lybrid will kill lambs and bury them for future
ise, and he is not averse to high-flavored car-
:ases tying about the bush when hungry. He
vill also carry home a bone that has no substance
n it, and hide it for gnawing purposes. Such
labits are foreign to the pure native. Put a
aungry dingo into the midst of a penned flock,
md he'll harm but one, and that one he’ll kill
autright. It w'ill not be the first he comes to
either. He may beat about for some time before
he finds a hogget fat and tempting enough to suit
him. He is extremely partial to lambs and hog-
gets. As the sheep give him little chance to
make a good selection in the open, long experi-
ence has taught him to follow or drive them to a
corner, where he can choose at his leisure.
Should he be in urgent need of a meal at the
time, however, he will dive straight in and lay
hold of the first mutton available.
In June, 1899, we were lamb-marking at the
12-Mile Yards, an out-camp on Whittabranah,
and every morning found the half of a freshly-
killed lamb in the middle of the yard, and the
spoor of a dingo outside. Though we watched
and set traps about the yard, we failed to catch
him. He came regularly every night, killed his
one lamb, and decamped without hurting another
hoof.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
A Vision of Brands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ten Years’ Siege is over and done,
The walls Poseidon built are won,
And through Troy’s sacred gates flung
wide
The Greeks pour in a living tide.
Then, like the bolt from Jove’s dread realm,
Falls crashing blade on splintering helm,
And spears are thrust, and axes swing,
And the corpses lie in a ghastly ring.
The night with noise and glare is riven,
And flames go up to the echoing Heaven,
And women shriek and children squeal
As they flee from the edge of the Argive steel;
And thunder and fire and wrath and blood
Burst on Troy in a hellish flood.
None may the desperate Greeks withstand ;
In the starshine, gloomy and grand,
Temple, palace, and turret stand,
Soon to vanish from out the land ;
What shall harm them, mighty and solemn—
Raze each roof-tree and soaring column?
Look, where goes that glittering band,
Mad for ruin ! In every hand
Is a burning brand.
* * * ®
A night in Paris—a night of fear,
In the Revolution’s terrible year :
There’s a yelling mob in the narrow streets,
And the tocsin peals and the parole beats,
And rivers of people take their course
To the Abbaye prison and grim La Force.
The clamor of voices fills the air,
And the walls give back the torches’ glare,
And Murder is marching everywhere.
Down in the prison’s gloomy pit
The vengeful Courts of The Terror sit;
Sharp is the sentence, short the shrift.
And Death comes leaping, hideous—swift,
On gallant courtier, high-born dame,
And all of ancient line and name.
“ Death to traitors ! ” Set them free—
Free to go where the. Vengeance waits !
Thrust them forth to this howling sea—
The avengers gathered beside the gates :
Ha ! a thousand-throated yell
Shudders up from that seething Hell;
Louder throb the maddening drums—
“ Cursed aristocrat! He comes !”. . .
Pikes and axes gleam and shine
Down that terrible double line ;
Reddened sabres wave on high
And a thousand furious voices cry,
“Vile Eater of the People—die !”. . .
Gods ! the bravest heart must quail,
And the ruddiest face grow pale,
And the strongest be unmanned
When before such death they stand—
“ Thrust him out !” . . . In every hand
Is a bloody brand.
» * * *
There’s a famous hostel in Sydney town
Where the foaming beers are long and brown ;
Where the pewters clink and the glasses sing
And the bells of the clicking cash-tills ring,
While the bottles gleam and the mirrors bright
Shoot forth a myriad shafts of light;
Where the girls are quick, and deft, and fair,
With pensive eyes and expensive hair—
With a fetching smile, or a merry jest,
Or wink for the “boy ” they like the best,
And over the bars dart, swift and free,
The shuttles of humor and repartee ;
Where a health is drunk or a b£ gain struck
To the glad “Chin-chin !” or a “Well, here’s luck!”
And they name their drinks, and call in turn
And the number takes some time to learn !
Five-and-forty different kinds
For five-and-forty different minds
Are called for by that thirsty band ;
Talking, laughing—there they stand
At the bar, and in each one’s hand
His favorite brand !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
A Study in Clay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE day had opened with the poorest of
color schemes, and had brought the depres-
sion of its greyness to the soul of the
artist. To him the day was fittingly grey.
He had escaped from the ghosts of his studio to
walk belated through crowds of chromo wor-
shippers. Once he met an art-lover, the winner
of his masterpiece in a shilling lottery. A nod of
benevolent recognition, and the carriage rolled by.
Here and there he passed creatures who had
wolfed numberless counter luncheons of his
Society in the form of Reception Teas. From
these came the ready J>ow of Art Patrons.
Then back to the studio, with its Bailiff, whilst
a prosperous German band played outside.
The Bailiff was the hireling of a Christian
money-lender, otherwise decent ; his authority, a
bill-of-sale.
“ There ain’t much for an inventory, but p’raps
it’s best for you, sir.” The hireling spoke, and the
man replied, “ Put in a clay figure of ‘ Hunted
Down ’in yonder cupboard. You are not up to
the business.” And the artist laughed.
*** * •
The day of the sale. Art lovers were present out
of charity, and because there was no reserve
the odds-and-ends of the studio were quickly
disposed of, including a little masterpiece of
“ Christ turning out the money changers,” which
Shylock bought in.
‘‘Now, gentlemen, for the last lot —a clay
figure ‘ Hunted Down.’ Who’ll start ? A
genuine work of art. Bring it out. N ever mind
the maker’s name. Come on, gentlemen—what
the Devil’s the matter ! ”
* * * *
Lot 25, “Hunted Down,” a clay figure, by
the Almighty.
X.X.X.


TOE RT^rr
M
(as
m
u
§s
For over
60 years Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla has been tested and tried.
It is known as the one great family
medicine. You may travel in any part
of the world —in Spain, China, India,
South America, Egypt, Australia, i
Africa, or wherever you will
there you will findthisfam-
ily medicine ready
i to give relief.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla—as now made, it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at ddl per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8,K., Pitt-st., Sydney
FREE!
GARDEN SEEDS. 11,000.
No Money 'Wanted.
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains. Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rinfts,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds.
All vou have to do is to sand us your Name and Address, ana
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money (6/-j, and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list
We trust you—the risk is ours. You may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer is withdrawn
Florists’ seed Supply Co.
52
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Beauty & Health go hand in hand,
&
*•'
mm.
m
: ■s.
Vi
4
. W"
m
mm
£ 1 :
up
v *
UiiHw
S*gsS
vt
iMi
f? < f m. $t
.mm
• '& ■ *;•
" ■ .:
•7# » : %£ I*
:<■ . >
i'
■■■■mm
*s&•*
• •
■ .
:V;
, ■
;'
7,
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH
GOUT, RHEUMATISM*
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO*
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/t $ & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
GOUT
IF you don’t rend THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
I (125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“ The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apph to
Dr Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent, medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Svo over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Cclored
Plate. The most, interesting, Up-to-date, and reliable medical work published; It: is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
t,o the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. So similar book has ever been ■published.
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing Ai illustrations and colored plate,
"iving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ’(the Australian Bresson Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. I>r. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). US'* Note Address s—
! E/m/ey House, ” 151 Eltzafoeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
men
A NO
Y/M'
# WOMEN
FREE
FOLK-TALKS OF THE MAORI
f R HE useful work of recording the folk-
| lore of the Maori, begun by Domett,
White, and Grey, is being carried
on by Johannes Andersen, Elsdon Best,
Tregear, and, among others, A. A. Grace.
Grace, the author of Maoriland Stories, and
Tales of a Dying Race, now publishes Folk-
Tales of the Maori (Gordon and Gotch, printed
at Nelson, M.L.). The author of the twenty-
seven tales in the book is really a Maori
chief named Karepa Te Whetu, who died in
1905, and from whose lips Grace took down
his narratives. In his acknowledgment,
Grace remarks:—“Those which, besides
being new to me, were most characteristic of
the race, or appeared to be most perfect in
form or whimsical in detail, I have re-told in
my own way, but without embellishment;
my object being to preserve in the telling as
much as possible of the atmosphere and color
of the originals.” The characteristic humor
of the Maori story-teller is certainly to be
found in these simple stories of a simple
race. Grace stresses the point frequently
made of the remarkable similarity of Maori
folk-lore with certain of the Greek myths.
“ The Moon Girl ” is a Maori version of
Orpheus and Eurydice ; and “The Courting
of Kirika ” recalls the tale of Hercules and
Deianeira. The book may be regarded as an
unpretentious forerunner of the book of
Maori myths that, urgently called for, is yet
unwritten.
ENGLISH BOOKS
A useful publication is E. F. Knight’s
Over-Sea Britain (Murray, fis.), dealing with
“the nearer Empire,” comprising the Medi-
terranean, British Africa, and British
America. It is an attempt to give a com-
prehensive account of the Empire, and is fur-
nished with maps and valuable statistics.
Probably owing to the small scale of the
map, Maoriland shows an area of
“desert” vegetation and an absence of
tundra or mountain flora. The second
volume promised, dealing with British
Possessions in Asia and Oceania, will
have a more immediate interest for us.
Knight is the author of that interesting
study, WJiere Three Empires Meet.
R. Gleig has written The Story of the
Battle of Waterloo (Murray, 2s. 6 d.). It is
a stirring account, written in the true his-
torical spirit, which sums up results and
takes small notice even of picturesque
details. “Modern battles are not won by
feats of individual heroism ; indeed, many
gallant deeds achieved embarrass more than
they facilitate the accomplishment of the
general’s plans.”
That original and fantastic illustrator,
Arthur Rack-ham, having charmingly ‘ * done ”
Rip Van Winkle and Feter Pan, has inevi-
tably turned his clever hand upon a master-
piece by Tenniel—the illustrations to Alice
in Wonderland. Of course this Alice is not
Tenniel’s Alice, nor is the March Hare
quite as mad as Tenniel’s hatter, nor the
Mock Turtle the genuine Tenniel Turtle ;
but the illustrations are full of a delicious
fantasy that will charm every child. It is
admirably produced by Heinemann (London.
65.). Raekham has also illustrated The
Ingoldsby Legends.
The Letters of Robert Schumann, by Karl
Storck (Murray, 95.), will be of interest to
all music lovers. The compiler pleads that
these letters, which he has arranged to form
something of a biography, have, unlike the
usual musician’s letters, considerable literary
value.
AMERICAN BOOKS
The gentle, sentimental, quaintly humor-
ous story that fills the American magazine is
found at its gentlest in such books as Aunt
Jane of Kentucky, by Eliza Calvert Hall
(Little, Brown; Boston). Aunt Jane plea-
santly gossips, and her “ ricolleetions ” are
eminently suited for the feminine reader.
The old lady’s “album,” composed of a
collection of patch-work quilts, each piece
of which recalls for her its donor, is
full of delightful sentimental humor.
Here is an example of her philosophy.
“Honey,” she said, in the next breath,
lowering her voice, and laying her finger on
the rosebud piece, “Honey, there’s one
thing I can’t git over. Here’s a piece o’
Miss Penelope’s dress, but where’s Miss
Penelope ? Ain’t it strange that a piece o’
calliker ’ll outlast you and me ? Don’t it look
like folks ought ’o hold on to their bodies
as long as other folks holds on to a piece o’
the dresses they used to wear ? ” A book,
pre-eminently, for the old maid.
Spirit Lake, by Arthur Hemming (Mac-
millan), with excellent illustrations by the
author, is, as pre-eminently, a book for the
boy. It is a story of the real Red Indian,
describing with convincing detail the life
and habits of that sorely over-idealised
savage. A similar book upon the Maori, in
novel form, might repay writing by some
Maorilauder.


PERDRIAU
FOR
GARDEN HOSE and
SPRINKLERS.
Price Lists Posted Free on request
270 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY. >
yy
MOTOR GARS!
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
6 per cent. Commission. Cables: “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadcgan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference—F. G. CROUCH, Esq., Randwick,
Sydney, N.S.W.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 Greorge Street,
SY^OaXTIES'Sr.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER BIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Drill tor
Mines or Ouarries. Weight about 181b<. Operated bv com -ressed air, consuminir about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART— Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
S OUMENTB=_W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.
S. SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAM PA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES.
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“ PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle
Buffalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK
CSQSOQ
The Beaver Prand has stood too test of time.
c OHE
Abb
or
A A
fm
V'VO-F
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
, SYDNEY
Also at
“THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
During the 1906-7 Wool Season we handled at our several branches 127,423 Bales,
an increase of 23,170 Bales on the previous Season. Having' satisfied so many growers,
is it not reasonable to assume we can satisfy you? WRITE FOR ONE OF OUR NEW
SOUVENIRS (just completed), being careful to give your full address to ensure safe delivery.
A. M. L. <a F. CO., Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers, BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
99
“FLEXIBLE METALLIC TUBING
Is made from Copper or Galvanised Steel Tape in one continuous length, rolled spirally and so that the edges interlock, with-
out affecting the flexibility of the whole. As the tape is rolled, a groove is formed for the reception of a specially prepared
packing of Rubber or Asbestos thread, which is completely enclosed in the metal as it is rolled, keeping it fully protected
from internal or external wear. This packing makes the tubing perfectly tight, while the interlocking feature induces a
flexibility in the smaller sizes equal, and in the larger sizes far superior to Rubber Hose of the same size and strength.— ——
It is made capable of carrying Steam at all pressures up to 3001 b. per square inch, and is also the best Hose for Oils, Gas,
Gasoline, Naphtha, Compressed Air, and Hydraulic purposes. : Is unaffected by extreme Heat or Cold, and remains
perfectly flexible at all temperatures. It will not Char, Kink or Crush, and can be supplied to stand pressure up to 20001 b.
per square inch. Made in all sizes from Jpinch to 10 inches internal diameter. Connections being fitted outside do
not reduce the capacity as in other Tubing. *—Specially adapted for -Steam and Air Rock Drills—Steam and Hydraulic
Cranes—Locomotive and Tender Connections—Air Brakes and Steam Heating —Boiler Tube Cleaners —Fire Engine Suction
Hose —Gas Tubing for Laundries —Cooking Stoves and “ Penny-in-the-Slot ” Meters ’’—Hydro Extractors
—Oil Wells and Tanks—Cyanide Pumps—Cordial Manufacture—Breweries—Chemical Works—Sugar
Refineries—Factories —Abattoirs —The Destruction of Rats, Rabbits, etc.—Protecting the Insulation of
Electric Cables above and below ground—Sinking Pumps in Mining Sir. - —Marine Salvage Companies for
Pumping Water or Conveying Steam—Ships carrying Cargoes liable to Spontaneous Combustion, as it can
deliver steam or water right to the seat of the fire without injury to the Hose—Automobile Horns—
Speaking Tubes, Oil Fuel Burners, etc., etc. Large Stocks of all Kinds and Sizes always on* hand.
All Storekeepers,
or direct from
R. A. HERVEY,
Sole Agent for
Australasia,
Cor, Clarence & King Streets, Sydney.
m
& <■
wknr.
.... ■
*;;
The PHILLIPS Pressed
Steel Split PULLET
Is the last word spoKen in goods of tbis class.
Very light, very strong', and of most excellent
design. Because of the preference shown by
some people for iron pullies, the sole agency for
New South Wales has been secured by . .
PARKE & LACY GO. LTD. , 60 Clarence Street, Sydney
Write for Price List. A Large Stock on Hand.
■-
CENTRIFUGAL SWIVELLED PUMPS
Of the VERY HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
The Pump takes its suction in on each side, therefore the Propeller of the Pump is always in equilibrium, thus doing away
with all unnecessary friction. The bearings are fitted with Oil Lubricating Rings, so that the same oil can be used over
PHI and over again, '•' ' 1 .o . *>' >< a j *.« r . ■ !<j * r > - -
PULSOMETER ENGINEERING CO., ENGLAND,
Makers of High-Class Pumps
of All Kinds. ■
GUTHR!!?GE, LTD., Sydney and Melbourne
———————■——
