

A Word to the Wise is sufficient-" DEWAR’S.”
R. Gr, WATXUBTS SZ CJO-,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— . /
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Mather & Platt
High Lift Turbine Pumps.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
HOBART.
1 ?S)S>-
|adlBi|'B Orient Hotel.
nmn
n
mn
BELTING'
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
mn
"Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
MAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S NEW BOOR LATCH
v WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
A Paying Investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
nm
n
mn
tmssm Contractors for the Erection and Complete Equipment of Generating Stations for Light, Power and Traction, mmmm
Manufacturers of Dynamos, Motors, Switchboards, Cables, etc.
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH WORKS COMPANY LIMITED
(THE- SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.),
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
»—mmt—Hgam—— mu min ■ ■■—imm-i inn inn.
BECK'S
C?C77^
*
MALTHOID is the one roofing
that is ahead of all others.
It is sold in rolls, and anyone
can lay it. ...... .
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
MALTHOID, besides being
light, is water and weather
proof, very durable and econ-
omical
REFRIGERATORS *<
ECONOMY
©tjf WttuU#” REF 3 R 1 l M C p E R o fT°RS
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET. SYPWF.Y
H ELI DON SPA WATER
The beneficial change from HELIDON SPA is due to
elimination of effete material via skin and kidneys.
GOLLIN & CO.,
A On"*-
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1506.]
[Thursday, December 24, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS
ON ANY SUBJECT.
Write us for any Books you Require.
We Welcome Inquiries.
GEORGE 'ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. Ltd.
71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION “OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular eaye
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
d ft
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung'.
The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 P oBt e^ e ® " n 0 r l i c ® i . p p t A ® f
stamps from HUDSON’S SUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
Poems by E. J. Rupert Atkinson.
THE ENCOUNTER.
She from the wanton highway of delight,
He from the gloom ascetiG of his cell,
Looked each on each. She smiled; he heeded
veil
The proffered lure, and shuddered from his sight;
Then that his flesh be purged of fear his might
Strove forth to succor ner by prayer and spell;
Jesting she swore to gain him, and to quell
His virgin virtue, laughing in the night.
Upward she reached, he stooping down to meet
Her yearning face, with wistful eyes of care,
And side by side for them one day was sweet.
She rose ... he fell. . . she kissed the cross and he,
Her futile worshipper, in shrill despair
Flung to the skies his reeking blasphemy.
THE DEAD SAINT.
Through hurtling space he fled from stq,r to star
On pinions'of damnation, for there trailed
Upon him frantic shapes which clutching wailed,
A long black mass which mouthed each wound
and scar,
Their dry lips mumbling love with lust to mar
His vigor by their weakness ; and he quailed,
And headlong down the darkness flashed and
failed,
Held by their black mass weltering from afar.
He cried : “ They burden me and drain my blood,
And from their sated vampire-love eschew
Me victim, till they famish when they claim
Me saviour, lord of love !. . . This long-time flood
Reeks—whence they praise my glory and pursue
Me ever— .. . pity, Omy God, my shame ! ”
OBSEQUIES.
One moment may we love, and then comes death.
O lay us side by side ; our bodies steep
With stpck and "roses white. Strew wreath on
wreath,.
And usher in the, night, for here we sleep,
Here to the end of time, or till the earth
Is frozen into silence and despair,
Itself the ghastly tomb of love and mirth,
A shiftless spectre in the spinning air.
One moment’s life. ... One moment we are here,
And then we vanish. Lay us side by side !
To us who live no other end may bear
A surer hope ; for each tossed from the tide,
Where mortal life floods on Eternity,
Lies mute in death, and thus shall always lie.
THE ENIGMA.
Think you that she is holy, she who is
The echo of your love, the mirror fleet,
Reflecting; your own appetite, and meet,
Therefore, to be as vain a thing as this ?
You f*jin would find her sweeter than her kiss —
But all your hope is vain, because you seek
A thing” beyond the power of life to wreak,
For who shall deem her dumb devotion bliss ?.
What can you hope of her whose love and trust
Rely upon your greed and vanity ?
What shall you think of her who, to the gust
Of your desire, bends like a stricken tree ?
Wh”at shall be said of her who feeds your lust?
A thing more futile than yourself is she !
A New Australian Poet.
The appearance of a new poet is always a
troubling portent. How can the Critic,
charmed, perplexed, exasperated, finding so
much and yet finding so much lacking, be
sure that his enthusiasm will survive ? Has
this new star the permanence, the steady
glow, though indubitably there is life here,
chaotic, diffuse, insistent ? Is this flash in
our wide skies only a falling meteor, or the
emergence of a new sun ? For a new poet
makes a new appeal, his light discloses a
different spectrum, his brightness dazzles
with its strangeness. How place it in its
proper magnitude ? How decide whether it
has come to stay ?
Something of this dubiety afflicts the
critic in the consideration of E. J. Rupert
Atkinson (with portrait). Two years ago
Atkinson published a small volume of verse,
entitled The Shrine of Desire , which this
Page found chaotic and tumultuous, yet inter-
esting, a vagueness lit with beautiful lines,
a conglomerate of poetry and words. This
little book was disfigured by an extraordi-
nary preface, which led the critic to say that
if E. J. Rupert Atkinson was not youthful,
it was quite time he was. But the poetry
survived the preface.
After this slight essay came two years of
silence. And now in her sumptuous robe
comes the sumptuous muse of a more
mature Atkinson, By a Midnight Sea:
Poems (George Robertson, Melb.) ; and
from this bulky collection of diffuse verses, a
huge volume of high technical skill and
much thought, it is possible tentatively to
assign to the author his place in Australian
verse.
W
Considered in Jffls technical aspect, Atkin-
son discloses a complete command of metre
and rime. He works equally well in sonnet,
rondeau, rondel, triolet, villanelle, and
blank verse. The only thing he has not
learnt is the necessity for condensation. Yet
even his exuberant fecundity aids us
in estimating him as a writer that
cannot be overlooked. His bulk tells.
When confined by rigid stanza forms he can
be rigid and terse ; it is only in his looser
work that he allows himself to ramble on to
interminable diffuseness. Yet even his
loquacity is redeemed by thought and an
occasional sonorous line. But his appeal
would have been more immediate, his final
place more certain, had he bestowed upon
his poems the labor of the file that he has for
his individual lines. He suffers from the
exuberance of youth ; he has not learnt to
prune from his lush growth the branches
I and leaves that would the more certainly
disclose the blossoms. And thus Atkinson
is not eminently quotable. In nearly all
his verse there are specks of poetry to be
found ; but his work needs crushing to find
payable ore. And his vagueness and care-
lessness of writing bar him from the poetry-
lover who is not ready for painstaking fos-
sicking. Yet the good things in his work
are indubitably gold. And it must be
patiently sought—through 132 poems in a
tall volume of 268 pages.
vl/
Let us select a few specimens of his style :
I welcome either pang or feast,
I am content to stand alone ;
And though the night hang thick, at least
The turgid night is all mine own. . . .
Grief lingered till it seemed that grief was
trust. ...
He kissed her, and her tear-lit eyes
Were sweet again with budding mirth,
And her meek face was wonder-wise,
And clear the colored earth, . . ,
Contemptuous of universes, I
Survey all space devoid of fear or trust
With will defiant fearful to defy,
Awed by the vastness of a speck of dust. • • •
But O to see the morning sun
Burst over long green plains of grass,
To know, although the night is done,
That 1 am what I always was ! . . .
His vision reeled, and he beheld
Time motionless and death’s escape
The turgid source whence he had welled,
A bubble in another shape. . . .
Heap withered poppies on her grave ;
Weep not nor smile. No more I fear
Her frown —no more—though once her slave;
For she is lost in utter death . . .
She cannot hear.
O would that I were Death ! . . .
O
Your life, a note struck once to thought, may
sound
The same hereafter, from strange years unbound
One flash might waken What has been before :
Then you would find again what you have
found. . . .
I Did we not love, then God had no delight. . . ,
Away with all such thought
Of vaunted human wisdom : ’tis despair
And leads toward no end. . . . Love lingers yet;
As when the sky is fraught
With memory of sunset,
Which is the breaking of the dawn elsewhere..
Time goes on, time shall go by ine
Like a storm that leaves its spoil beside the
way . . .
My dream has fled ; the Truth remains—enough !
Nought can be evil: Life is infinite
And time, the willing minister of love,
With each breath brings
Some simple-beauty budding to the light,
And all can tell what every petal sings.
W
Atkinson’s work, as will be seen, is not
lacking in thought. He has, too, the
Wordsworthian endowment of simplicity of
diction. His philosophy is that of youth.
Love to him is nearly always lust, a woman
only the vessel of that lust, and death is an
ever-looming menace.
If God is mindless, and His state
But that of earth, then surely I
Can wake Him up to life, through hate,
By curse and blasphemy !
I And, living, He will understand
How he has made the world to weep,
And, by His might and His command,
Death like a storm shall sweep
Out of existence utterly ;
And we, poor creatures, who were swirled
One time in death, will ever be
The masters of the world !
And, as is to be expected, he delights in
passion. A characteristic example :
Midnight and all is ours. Come closer, sweet,
Closer until my heart can feel yours beat,
And, beating, our two hearts become the same.
Lean, sheltering boughs, above us lest there flame
Some vagrant meteor to illume ou,r love.
The wbrld is silent; darkness sleeps above.
Midnight and all is ours 1 Come closer yet,
Make our full moment ours ere we forget,
Ere time sardonic robs desire. Once more
All echoes back, all we have been before,
And I "who loved have conquered her disdain ;
Immortalised this moment shall remain.
Nought else to dream of save our love, beside
'The far-off murmur of the drowsy tide ;
Beneath, the fragrant turf, the soft warm air
Add sanctity to love. I have no care
Now first in all existence. Nearer yet,
Come closer, love, that we may here forget
The treacheries of time ; and for love’s sake
I pledge the future yours. With you I slake
My thirst of love ; I drug my soul with you.
The will is ours. This love we shall renew
Henceforth at will—but now no more of speech,
Your lips to mine—so let our silence teach
Our souls the way that mortal passion dower 3.
Lie still, O sweet. Midnight, the world is ours.
W
And, also as is to be expected, Woman
obsesses his muse. His view of her may
perhaps most concisely be expressed by these
selected lines, marred—as poetry—by the
concluding couplet:
Her eyes speak all the love he showed, and she,
Until she knows the thrill of his embrace,
The consummation of their love, with face
That strains to his, half deems her love is his,
Half deems her passion sanctified which is
Only the craving to fulfil her end.
Yet mother of man’s life, what may transcend
A higher state than thine? Lost on the surge
Of eddying human life, loud with the dirge
And volume of the medley of desires
Breathed from a myriad throats, which are as fires
Sweltering to death, mankind finds common cause
In one fixed will—more life; for they must pause,
Themselves, in utter death. Creator, she
I Woman, smiles over him, her potency
Holding the farrowing bounds of earth. Her love
But yearns for his, that she may fashion of
Herself a lasting heritage of life.
Look up ! The earth is bloody with her strife. . .
Love consummated vvanes to death straightway,
Consumed within itself ; and they but stay
To hearken to their memory of delight
And drift toward their ends. He to the might
Of ever-changing thoughts and knowledge tied,
Unconscious, works his mission—to abide
Her slave and panderer. And she, the slave
Of earth’s one law, toils onward to the grave,
Perchance a ten-times mother. . . And she dies :
Even in death her body multiplies !
So in this big book he reiterates with
scarce a variation the theme of love, of love’s
satiety, of the woman worshipped and her
greed when won. He will grow out of that.
He has imagination and the audacity to
envisage vast conceptions ; and if his book
is by no means perfect, he has put forth a
volume arresting, troubling, big with the
uncertainty of youth. But he has yet much
loving labor with the file to do.
Gm B. Lancaster
G. p. Lancaster improves. The latest
novel by this Maoriland girl, The Altar
Stairs (per Roycroft Library, Sydney) marks
an increase in technical power, while her
masculine strength remains as astonishing as
in A Spur to Smite. Here is a story of the
Islands, wild, fierce, realistic, packed with
gorgeous incident, and working logically out
the redemption of an Island outcast. Lan-
caster has the Kipling instinct of vivid por-
traiture, the Kipling gift of virile phrase,
the Kipling power of creating an atmosphere.
The plot is well welded, weakening at the end
by a convenient death. As a specimen of
her power of condensation to the essentials,
take this bit of by-play between the white
man and the brown girl:
“Then, through the ruled lines of the
casuarina fingers, Tony Heritage saw her,
and he thrust them apart, catching, her by
the shoulder. Her song snapped with a half
scream. She twisted free, sprang sideways
on a rock shining brown as her skin, and
looked at him aslant in a mocking defiance.
The night wind swept up the heavy hair
from her oval, laughing face and shook the
strings of scarlet berries that fell to her
waist. There was strange scent in her petti-
coat of fresh-pulled leaves, and in her wind-
stirred hair, and the flutter of a bat past her
slim, bronze body was no lighter than her
poise on the stone.
“Tony came three steps nearer, . . ..
“ ‘You no Solomon girl,’ he said quickly.
“ Parate swayed a little, her hands on her
sides; bright eyes and teeth flashing through
the dusk of her hair.
“ ‘ What you t’ink 1 What you t’ink, you
one white man ? ’ she cooed.
“Tony Heritage laughed. Then he put
his hands under her arms and lifted her.
“ ‘ I think this,’ he said, and met her lips
with his,”
Lancaster is at home in a “scrap, and
the yarn is full of wild Island fighting and the
contests of two desperate men. But the
greater fight is a psychological one, between
Rod’s better and worse helf. And each of
the characters is clearly drawn, with a cer-
tain crude strength, careless of nuances. Of
living writers her work most resembles
London and S. E. White. And it is good
work. ■ ■ '
Steele Rudd.
I Steele Rudd is at it again with In Australia
(Pratten Bros., 247 George-street, Sydney,
Is.) This is a story of a South Queensland
dairy farm, readable, picturesque, Australian.
Davies paints with a sure hand the hard con-
ditions of boy-labor on a dairy farm, and if
the book only kept up to the realism of the
opening chapters it would be a noteworthy
work. °Here, for instance, is his picture of
the children of the dairy-farms getting in the
cows by lantern light:
“And on the lightly timbered fiats and
ridges at that same merciless hour, eerily
flashed distant lanterns, like so many will-
o’-tbe wisps, each lantern accounting for a
child missing from its bed—perhaps a girl of
tender years, sleepy, hungry, weary, and
thinly clad ! Had they been tutored m some
form of flashlight telegraphy the mites might,
at least, have spent the first hour of then-
morning’s misery pleasantly enough in com-
municating their sufferings and conveying
messages ©f sympathy to each other across
the dark and silent valleys, which Nature, in
her wisdom, had not yet deemed fit to awaken
from a healthy slumber.
But this touch of truth is soon overlaid
with echoes of the Steele Rudd humor, worn
thin and a conventional plot which does not
omit the orphan child, the bush-trained
racehorse that wins the Cup, the imprison-
ment of the innocent man, and the miss-
will. And even in his description of the
race Rudd uses the cheapest and tntest
journalese.
1“ The hearts of the silent multitude beat
th suppressed excitement. 'She suspense
is awful. Every second seemed an hour.
du could hear a pin drop.”
And the conclusion is the cheapest and
ost unconvincing melodrama. It is a
ty that, with his gifts of realism, Rudd
>es not do better. He has a fatal facility
id a lack of care which spoil his art.
oubtless the public will like it all the
ore.
:
Whatever poetic inspiration M. Lynn
amilton may have, it is scarcely apparent
The Hunter of the Years ( J. D. Aitken,
[oonee Ponds, Melbourne, 2s. 6cL). His
3rse is spasmodic and his meaning awkw-
ardly expressed. His occasional intelligible
nes, such as these, are. poor stuff at their
est :
Predestined are we,
ut onlv forward from each single choice,
o mastering self thyself art master
Of fell circumstance. . . .
aid Dawn missed Eastern sky, or why her cheeks
ly color-contrast soft ungath’ring it ?
’oo, if the semblance of a spirit’s kiss
lould leave such perfect imprint as those lips,
'hen see you, proved, sure evidence of such
ind God Himself thereon has fingers laid—
)n curve of nose, of brow, of sloping throat;
io ! His indented touch on either side,
Vhieh some name temples—l, the mark of Soul.
)nly in “ Fainting ” does the author emerge
rom his involved and chaotic style and his
vagueness of thought into something inel-
igible and passably poetic. M. Lynn
Bamilton needs must discipline his Pegasus
jefore he runs him again.'
Audacious Paris has solved the universal
poet-problem. That city has married the
irts by installing a “ Salon of Poetry” in
ane of the r&oms of the Art Salon of the
Champs Elysees. The new stall of Pegasus
was opened with formalities by no less a
personage than the Minister of Public In-
struction. Every poet in I ranee can send
in his poem to the Salon, and all those poets
who are not dead have done so. A hard-
working committee sifts the gold jfom the
dross, and once a wdek a dozen of the best
verses are read to the public by trained
readers, or the blushful authors themselves.
If he only knew French, the part of poem-
reader seems just suited to Arthur Bayldon.
Honors are conferred upon the best poets,
and many of the productions appear in the
daily press as news of the day. The Pegasus
stall has been so successful that the
Independent Salon and the Autumn Salon
have installed stables in their galleries for
that happy moke. The suggestion that the
Society of Artists and the Art Society should
go and do likewise would be received in
Australia with delirious joy.
More for its geography than for its
merit, though that is high, we print
the concluding verse of Mrs. V. A. Litch-
field’s “ Australaise,” which arrived too
late for the competition. The writer states
that in the Northern Territory, where she
lives, she never gets The Bulletin until at
least four weeks after it is published, and
then has to wait for a boat to call at Port
Darwin to take her letters south.
Comrades, though to-morrow’s sun
Find us lying low. 1
And the joy of battles won
We no more may know,
I It will be a glorious dying,
On a couch of crimson lying,
Still to see our banners flying
O’er a beaten foe.
A correspondent asks for information re “ The
Austral Literary Agency, ” 317 Coll ins-street,
Melb. The agency charges £5 ss. for reading and
revising ready for press MS. to the length of
80,000 words, and for forwarding and submitting
to publishers £1 Is. If placed, the agency wants
10 per cent, of price. Short stones are read and
revised up to 1500 words for 55., and for every
additional thousand words 2s. Gd. So far this new
agency reports only one sale of a book.
prices may be compared with The Editor
Literary Bureau,” 150 Nassau-street, New York,
U.S. Criticism of prose, 5000 words Bs. (id. ; novels
to 30,000 words 315., or to 100,000 words £5 ss.
The Editor has a good record of American sales,
and claims to revise and criticise with expert
thoroughness. The Red Page offers no advice on
the subject. '


A
<ace
WOOD ROCKING HORSES.
TV'"Hifully Modelled and Painted in Lifelike Colors, on
Patent, Swing Rockers. The stands are constructed' on
scientific principles, ensuring the MAXIMUM OF SAFETY
and the MINIMUM OF VIBRATION. The saddle.can be
readily converted into a girl’s saddle.
No. I—Height, 2ft. 3in., 24/6 I No. 4—Height, 3ft. .. 507-
No. 2—Height, 2ft. 6in., 29/6 No. s—Height, 3ft. 3in. 70/-
No. 3—Height, 2ft. 9in., 37/6 | No. 6—Height, 4ft. ..’B7/6
The Comical Clown, clockwork, length, 7£in. ; height, s Jin., 1/3.
A highly finished and ingenious toy, and a considerable improvement
on the old form. The donkey still kicks hard, but runs forward a few
yards, then backs the carta similar distance—very amusing - .
nm
Dolls’ Go-Carts Wood,
Varnished, Iron Wheels,
as illustrated, 4/9 ;
Wicker, Iron Wheels,
4/9 ; Wood, Iron Wheels
—with Hood, 8/6 ; with-
out Hood, 5/6.
Dolls’ Perambulators— Wood, Leather lined, with Hood, 7/6 ; larger
size, 12/* ; with Rubber Tvred Wheels, 19/6.
Dolls’ Perambulators, Wicker—4 iron Wheels, 1/-, 1/9, 2/3, ?/ ;
3 Iron Wheels, 4/9, 6/9 ; 3 Iron Wheels, with hood, 6/-
No. 37—Toy Mandolines, 1/5, 2/3, 3/6, 5/3.
Our New Price List of Carpets and Floor
Coverings faithfully presents the latest Carpet
Weaves and Floorcloths in all their rich
colorings. Write for a copy, posted free
anywhere, and reap the full benefit of our
Unique System of Spot Cash Trading.
r*i "
m
pate
ute-
EN&i
S'TtNTa
m
, Tut Tut Motor Cars, 1/9.
Runs in a series of curves, the driver steering' automatically.
The horn is blown continuously. Finished all white ; a very fine car.
... SELECTIONS FROM ...
Piccaninnies’ Paradise
At the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
THE HOME OF
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
Dolls isi Fashion’s Garb
and in Nature Glad.
This important Branch of our TOY SECTION is peopled with
a most Varied Assortment of Mimic Humanity.
When ordering Dolls, state the style required, and
satisfaction is sure to follow.
m
Tr'V'f'
tji
Dressed Dolls, similar to illustration, with Metal Heads. 1/4. 1/9. 2/-.
2/6, 3/3, 3/9, 4/6, 6/9, 10/- ’ ' ’ ' ’
Dressed Dolls, Jointed, with China Heads, 9d., 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9, 2/3, 2/6
Better quality and more stylishly dressed, 3/-, 4/-. 6/-. 6/- 7/-. 8/-.
9/-, 10/6, 12/6 to 50/- ' 1 ’ 1 ’ ' ’
Dressed Rag Dolls, 6d., 9d., 1/-, 1/6, 2/-, 3/6.
*8
k:
ffl
m
a
■ ■ I i
/ i
7*=3
Sateen Dressed Doll, as illustrated, Jointed, Moving Eyes, 16in. lona-,
3/6 each. Also at 10d., 1/5, 1/9, 2/-, 2/3, 2/6, 2/11, 3/6, 4/- Super’
5/-, 6/-, 7/6, 9/-, up to 42/-
China Jointed Doll, as illustrated, Double Jointed, Long Hair, Un-
dressed, 5/-
Undressed Washable Dolls, 4Jd., 6d., 7d., 9d., 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9, 2/-, 2/6
Extra Large Undressed Washable Dolls, 3/-, 3/6, 4/6, 6/-
Talking Dolls, 1/9, 2/6, 3/9, 5/-
Sleeping Dolls, 1/3, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
Undressed Linen Dolls, stuffed with Kapok, life size, 16in., 1/9 ; 23in., 2/6
Dressed Linen Dolls, 2/-
Undressed Dolls, printed on Linen, not made up. life size, 16in., 9d. •
23in., 1/-
Undressed China Dolls, with Long Hair, 3d., 4d., 6d., 1/-, 2/3, 3/3
3/9, 5/3.
AUTOMOBILES.
Size, 39in. x 15in. Painted, Upholstered Seat, Rubber-Tvred
Wheels, 18in. x 12in., without lamps, No. 21, as illustration, 66/-
36in. x 14in. Mounted in Brass, Upholstered Seat, Rubber-Tvred
Wheels, 18in. x 12in., 62/6.
28in. x 13in. Rubber-Tvred Wheels, 16in. x Sin., Wood Seat, 32/6 :
Iron Wheels, No. 7, 27/-
38£in. x 16in. Tandem, Upholstered Seat, Rubber-Tyred Wheels,
16in. x 10in., No. 2, 50/- ; Iron Wheels, No. 1, 45/-
Toy Sewing Machines, complete Workin
Models of Full Size Machines—
2/9, 6/-, 9/6, 12/6.
For more prac-
tical purposes
we recommend
the World-
Re nowned
WHITE
SEWING
MACHINE
Write for Illus-
trated Price
List, posted
free on request.
GIRLS’ TRICYCLES.
With Mud Guards, High-grade, Ball-bearing- Tricycles,
Maroon, Jin. Rubber Tyres, Adjustable Seat, i
62/6 ; 6 to 8 years, 60/-
Enamelled in
to 6 years,
We build Bicycles and use none but the
Genuine B.S.A. PARTS. The UNIVERSAL
BICYCLE, fully warranted, built to specifica-
tions, complete with OCEANIC TYRES, £lO.
Complete with DUNLOP TYRES, £ll.
Fitted with Coaster Hub Freewheel, £ll 10s.
PIONEER HAND CAR OR TROLLEY.
Painted Iron Wheels, 20/- ; Rubber Tyres, 27/-, 32/-
THE WALLABY COASTER, similar to Pioneer, but with Heavy Iron
Wheels, 24/- Rubber Tyres, 32/6. Self-propelling, after the
style of a Railway Trolley.
HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


n
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
s'smnxrß'sr,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
S YDNE 3T.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
w ® 1 B‘ lln g! classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained*
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
Complete, 1/-
Post Free, 1/3.
Tommy Burns’ Scientific
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Pit.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Ready-rnade
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride of the First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. How to
Mesmerise, 1 /-. Every
Man His Own Builder,
1/6. Letter Writer, ]/-.
Lover’s Guide. 1/3.
ISLAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
wv.
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted. 21-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
mn
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
m
The Accordeon
witt
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/-post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P’ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CD TAILOR-MADE
•m3* corsets.
C.B.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
rO^StTS
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over ail other types.
)
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From . |o 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane. MELBOURNE.
„ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDSI
(MAGNESIA,
n
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. „ General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
Debility, Indigestion
and Palpitation.
A COMPLETE CURE.
By perusing the following story, the reader will
be made acquainted with circumstances that pos-
sibly bear a personal resemblance, in which event
gratefulness would be felt towards Mrs. Josephine
Mack, of No. 21 Parsons Street, Balmain, for
placing on record her remarkable experience.
Answering the reporter’s first question Mrs.
Mack said :
“As a sufferer from debility and indigestion, I
ought to be able to speak with authority on the
subject of what is the most effective remedy for
such afflictions, and the knowledge I gained in this
respect came through following the example of a
relative, who had been suffering like myself, and
who was quite restored to health by Clements
Tonic.”
“Had you been ailing long, Mrs. Mack?”
“Yes, too long for my liking, and a weary time
it was, too. I had tried many alleged remedies,
and only wasted my money in doing so. Need-
less to say how despondent I was as a result. I
had no strength to get about, and the easiest work
in the house was often too much for me. Yes,
anybody around here can tell you what I was like
then, for I have been in this house for the past
eleven years and am pretty well known. Ah !
little did I think of the misery that was in store
for me when I was a healthy, young woman,
teaching at a school in Tipperary. But we never
know what is before us. Why, my life became a
positive burden to me. I was subject to reeling
sensations. I would feel myself swaying to and
fro, and it required a big effort to save myself from
falling to the floor. The severest form of head-
aches attacked me, and I was terribly nervous,
too, and when nervousness hinges on to a woman
her unhappiness is complete. The terrifying
thoughts that come to ihe brain, such as strange
sounds being present, making the belief that
somebody is stealthily moving about the room, or
a window being raised in the dead of night, are
enough to distract a person entirely. And in the
fretful state of mind then ruling every little
trouble was magnified into an impassable mountain
of adversity. Very often I would go and lie down,
quite unable to keep up any longer, and I don’t
know what would have happened only for the
Clements Tonic that I fortunately started taking
in time.”
“ Did your illness entail any difference in your
weight?”
“My word, it did; but it was astonishing how
soon it came back once I had got properly going
with Clements Tonic, which seemed to make the re-
moval of my afflictions quite easy. Before this, I
hadn’t any prospect of getting my strength back,
for I could not eat, and a person cannot do much
good without an appetite. But the trouble was
that when I did force myself to eat, I suffered
fearfully from indigestion—heavy sensations in
the chest, such as made the very act of breathing
a difficulty, and pains under my shoulders, across
my back, and aches in my limbs chat were most
wearisome. My heart palpitated dreadfully, and
there were pains in the region of that organ, too.
So you see, I was altogether in a bad way. But,
thank God, there is a' very marked difference in
my physical condition between now and then, and
I have to give all the credit to the remedy I’ve
already mentioned. The derangements of my
nervous system, that had obstinately remained in
existence until Clements Tonic was brought into
requisition, do not trouble me now, neither do any
of the disorders that had proved so wearisome.
By judiciously keeping to my newly-won friend,
Clements Tonic, I succeeded in regaining the
priceless gift of good, robust health, and it is only
fair that I should give to that remedy all the
credit that is due to it. As a nerve tonic, to
brace a woman up, and make her feel invulner-
able against the hardest work and the severest
trials that happen during one’s course through
life; I recommend Clements Tonic. It not only
cured my indigestion, but also supplied in unstint-
ed measure nerve force and strength, which gives
a woman confidence in herself, and to the weak
and sickly I shall always advise the use of that
grand preparation.’’
“ Your views will be duly chronicled.”
“Very well, you are at liberty to publish them
where and how you think best for the benefit of the
whole community.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JOSEPHINE MACK, of 21 Parsons Street, Balmain,
in the State of New South Wales, ComnVnwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and ajgo contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Balmain, this twenty-fourth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me, _ „
8 ] SYD. J. LAW, J.P.


mn
The Best
Cough Drops
Are Drops
of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
ylifer’s
then'll 9edoral
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing, relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
inti:)bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure ycu get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Vrtpared by Dr. L C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to an> one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade ZHEAD
Co ven try FByers
esß than lowest manufacturers' priceß.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
m
LATEST
MODELS
dZ3aI(P to c £9
Pitted with all latest improvements
Packed! and Deßivered
f Pee to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. j>roflt*
easily made. Write u. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Speolal Offer
en sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO,. Dept. 280 LIVERPOOL,
SCIENTIFIC OPINION.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F.I.C. V F.C.S.
Public Analyst, of Sydney, adds his testi-
mony to that of other scientific men on the
Purity of Sunlight Soap, He reports:—
“Having analysed samples of Sunlight
Soap, purchased on open market, we have
pleasure in attesting' to the especial purity
of Sunlight Soap. Sunlight Soap is evi-
dently manufactured under close chemical
supervision, for we find it to contain no un-
saponified fat, no free alkali, and to be a well
made soap. There is no adulteratirn what-
ever Sunlight Soap has the healthy, clean
smell of refined fats and oils, and is a good
genuine laundry soap. Whilst it cannot
injure the finest fabric nor the skin, yet i*
will do its work thoroughly.”
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Hoi-lick’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
fast
time or
supper time'
Horli ck’s'
Malted Milkis"
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples : 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Food Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing- One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25 /-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
IRISH MOSS
mR -The best remedy-
INFLUENZA, J
COUGHS,
Ask for Barm 1 ng ton’s
and seethatyou get it.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA
Home-made Sodawater
or any sparkling mineral waters can be made in a
moment anywhere and in any quantity by using
ewg
wmmm
“Prana” Sparklet Bulbs
in
“Prana” Sparklet
Syphons.
No waiting—no failures.
No trouble —no difficulty.
On sale of all Stores# Ironmongers#
&c.# throughout Australasia.
For full particulars apply to any of the
undermentioned firms# who will give you
the name and address of your nearest dealer*
S. Hoffnung & Co.# Sydney and Brisbane; Rocke# Tompsitt & Co.# Melbourne;
G. Wood# Son & Co.# Adelaide; G. P. Harris# Scarfe & Co,# Fremantle;
Alfred Shaw# Ltd.# Townsville.
Sole Makers: Aerators# Ltd.# ** Prana ” Sparklet Works# London.
MARK
Underwear
Made in
England
ARK
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO. (
London, E.C.
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR
surgeon
your Liver right ?
It s one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kills enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle’s Antibilious Pill, for Cockle’s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
years and still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.
KL
Q
MAKES tbe SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
nm
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AHO
BEFBESHED
<N
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely remote
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
A grants—Elliot* Bros.
-
III! Raters: M. beeiham & SON. Gbeltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., HSeibwirne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Finis.
High-hearted was he as the lark,
Whose song of triumph spurns the dark.
The scarlet music in his veins
Ran glowing like seraphic strains.
The dawn appeared for him alone.
The day, the world, were all his own.
For him the sun kissed lovingly
His silken-robed Sultana Sea.
The hours to him were golden sands :
He scattered them with both his hands.
The thrill of ecstasy that runs
Through song of lark, through light of suns,
Through grasp of hand in comradeship,
Through kiss of woman—heart on lip—
He knew and loved it passing well.
Then on his soul a Shadow fell—
The Shadow of a Shape of Fear,
That made the golden daylight drear.
Its hollow eyes were dim and dull;
A fool’s cap crowned its grinning skull.
It stood a moment by his side,
He looked, and laughed—and laughing, died.
Y. J. DALEY.
Dolorous Gard.
Not here, not here, but under skies,
Touched with a deeper, tenderer blue,
And changeful as a sea-maid’s eyes,
I built in dreams a home for you.
Far set in lonely lands of thought,
A fairy tower, serenely light
As some tall flower in fields unsought
That trembles to the starry night.
All down the silent galleries
My steps re-echo as I pass.
The sunlight falls in traceries
Of gold and crimson through the glass
Of deep-set windows, richly lined
With many an old armorial shield,
Whose lions waded deep in blood
On some old dim forgotten field.
The heavy tapestries are still:
No hasty air disturbs their folds;
The jasmine twines about the sill,
The nesting sparrow fearless scolds.
No voice rings through the startled halls,
No shadow falls across the door ;
The pallid mirrors on the walls
No sudden image brightens o’er.
And sometimes stealing, half-afraid,
At even, through the closing gloom,
I find, not hitherto essayed,
A little, moonlit, empty room.
Here lies a book, the leaves still shut,
Here languishes, untuned and dumb,
A lute ; some blossoms, long since cut,
Lie dead, or e’er the Queen should come.
And there are gardens, never sere,
Green-alleyed, faint with rose and musk,
That bloom for ever through the year.
The fireflies flicker through the dusk,
Wheeling their mazy dance aloft.
Where one tall poplar rears above
The fountain, singing sweet and soft,
Like music heard in dreams of love.
Sometimes I watch the peacocks strut
Where the old dial, throned in flowers,
Displays his motto, quaintly cut,
“I number only sunny hours.”
Till by the shadows made aware
Another day its hours has spanned,
I seek the winding turret-stair,
And sit, my chin upon my hand,
To watch the summer moon uprise,
Large, red ; even like that fruit of Death
Which laid Troy low for Helen’s eyes,
And fair, false mouth, and amorous breath.
And through the silence, pauseful, clear,
Like one who weepeth all alone
By night in some still house, I hear
The sea’s old mournful monotone.
Till, deep within the cloven skies
A pallor slowly spreads and grows ;
And on the heights the white mists rise,
And all the earth is flushed with rose.
The stars die slowly, one by one,
And, shrill across the dewy lawn,
To herald in the day begun.
Peals to my ear the bird of dawn.
Ah, stately palace ! lovely flowers !
From the wild world so far apart!
A sadness is upon your bowers,
And finds its echo in your heart.
How many months of sun and rain
Must fret the grey and lichened stone
Before my Queen to her Domain
Return at length to claim her own ?
(For far from here, and under skies
Touched with a deeper, tenderer blue
Than dwells within a sea-maid’s eyes,
I built in dreams a home for you.
Ah, come, my sweet ! not all in vain
Let me aWait you here alone,
lake up, my Queen, your rightful reign,
And come at length to claim your own !)
N,S-W -
FRITZ BURNELL.


Tkc
ARCHITECT
SPECIFIES
S> e ß4
o
£
c
B-W
The up-to-date architect's practical experience has taught
him that the Wunderlich Designs embossed in Metal are
the ideal form for ceilings and wall-linings.
They looK better and last longer than the old-fashioned
style and never give any trouble.
For decorative purposes they are wonderfully adaptable
and lend themselves to endless color combinations.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms;
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney,
Melbourne Showroomst
243 COLLINS ST.
JPJieTE&sence qf
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
n
SUPPORTS
M ILLIONS
ULA
.. ,j
/ .
s'
Retail price: complete in leather
case, with Strop and Twelve Blades
- 25/-
2>>6e
AUTO STROP
The last word in Safety Razors,
and a most acceptable Christ-
mas or New Year Gift.
The only Safety Razor that
you can strop and clean without
removing blade.
fS3>
Agents for Manufacturers :
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
KB
Bill
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manages.
WHAT TO DRINK IN SUMMER!
mn
You want a beverage that is
wholesome, refreshing, and
pleasing to the palate.
“ LEMOS ” is the best drink
to revive your tired body.
It is delightful.
BROOKE’S “LEMOS
SWEETENED
LEMON SQUASH.
CHEAP QUEENSLAND LEASEHOLDS.
Forty miles from Central Line, 55,000 acres, good tenure, low rent, good, healthy
country permanently watered, well improved, 15,000 mixed sheep, chiefly young ewes,
■ cattle, 35 horses. £12,500. .
Fifty jniles from South Western Railway, 500 square miles, of which half is goo s eep
country, Myall Plains chiefly, red soil, well improved, 7000 to 8000 well-bred Dui iam ,
rental, good leases, 92/0 per head, 8 per cent, calf allowance.
In Centra] Queensland, 22,000 acres, 28 years’lease, low rental splendid sheep country,
well watered, 8000 sheep, 85 per cent, lambs at foot. Think £7OOO for quick sale.
Fifteen miles from Central Railway, 40,994 acres, thickly-grassed country with nice
edible timber, well watered, creeks, springs, etc., well improved, good house, etc., 10, , p.
£7OOO cash. ” ' 7 - ■
For further particulars apply to
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO. LTD.,
Stock and Station Agents, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
m
»Razor, Sir?” “ Yes, A METROPOLE”
To be hart only at Hotel Metropole Hairdress-
ing Saloon. Price 10/6 ; Pair in Case, 21/-;
Metropole Strop, 7/6 (all guaranteed) post
free. Gentlemen visiting town can be made
look toney in the above saloon. 1 acial Massage
a speciality. C. P. MOORE,
65 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
er
REFEREE tobacco,
GROWN AND MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
• : Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin
nm
Prize Awards.- London 1851, Paris 1889.
London IBGZ. Melbourne 1888. Kimberley 1892..
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
N
RHAMS
DON
©
Watches
k \
SOLD BY^
?Au Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
I
f
/
r
E.RIdH %t,<s.U>°. SvPHE-yf:g> Brj^ban^lP


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Olfi.ee, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1506.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1908.
PIUOB 6 fj
MORE PERILS OF THE SEA.
In view of the fact that the next upheaval of the colored seaman may take place when the vessel is at sea and no police are handy, it is
respectfully suggested that passengers should go aboard like this.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Go.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
■Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Jlow to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription far “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicials. 'The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special l\'ot,ice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and • not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are tbserved. When MS. is forivarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllnote unit ll Lite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a cuirent event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gut eh, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 liigh Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Eovi-r. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hono Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Sjiecial Notice.
Tiik Bulletin metal advertising plates, size tffin. xlhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1908.
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY-STILL
AUSTRALIA’S DANGER.
Parliament did a comparatively short session in
1908, and the number of Acts it passed in that
session can be counted on the fingers of one
hand. It closed early, because under the ridicu-
lous system of Party Government a Ministry
doesn’t hold office for a fixed period, but is liable,
so long as Parliament is sitting, to be thrown out
over any Bill, or clause, or motion at any moment,
and thereby lose its dignity and income without
notice. Consequently, it pays better to abandon
business and close Parliament up, and get into
the cool, peaceful grotto of recess, where Minis-
tries are safe from being thrown out. Also, it
pays to stay in recess as long as possible, and let
business slide. This arrangement is good for the
Ministry, but very bad for a country where so
many things are waiting to be done. To quote only
one—the Northern Territory question is hung up
again, whenadefinite settlement was apparently in
sight; and how long it may be before it reappears
as a business proposition no man can tell. It is a
desperately urgent matter, but the necessity for
getting into recess is the most urgent matter of
all under the Party Government system, especially
when the Ministry is weak and its following pre-
carious.
. * * * *
There is nothing to which any reasonable per-
son can object in the terms on which the Terri-
tory is offered to the Commonwealth. In the first
place its debt (some £3,390,000) is to be taken
over with it. There are probably £1,500,000
worth of money-earning assets to set against this
debt, and even if they are not earning much just
now they will earn a great deal when the Lost
Province is in the hands of a Government which
can find the funds to complete its railway com-
munication and start settlement on a large scale.
That leaves about £1,800,000 as an equivalent for
the transfer of 523,620 square miles of country
described thus:
(1) 158,009 square miles erood tropical, pastoral and
agricultural country ; rainfall from I9in. to 64in. per
annum ; contains metals and probably coal.
(2) 34,000 square miles of good pastoral country, with
patches of rich volcanic soil ; well grassed and watered ;
with wide plains and rich river flats.
(3) 29,000 square miles, semi-tropical; first-class
pastoral country ; part fit for agriculture ; well-grassed
and with rich soil. Not so well-watered as Nos. 1 and 2,
but subject to intermittent tropical rains.
(4) 148,000 square miles: part good pastoral country ;
part metal-bearing ; portions sand and spinifex ; uncertain
rainfall.
(5) About 154,000 square miles ; part metal-bearing;
patches of inferior pastoral country ; rest scrub and sand ;
uncertain rainfall.
With 221,000 square miles of good and well-
watered land and 302,000 square miles of
sundries going for about £1,800,000, the
Northern Territory is the cheapest province on
earth. No auctioneer in history has ever put a
better lot on the market since the days when the
Pretorians used to sell the Roman Empire by
public competition. And it must be remembered
that South Australia doesn’t ask its neighbors to
shoulder the whole responsibility. As a State
which stands for one-tenth of the Commonwealth’s
population it will still carry one-tenth of the
burden. Out of the debt of £3,300,000 it will
shoulder £330,000, which is at least something.
South Australia, in fact, offers to sell a magnificent
fortune for an old song—or rather, it offers to give
away the fortune, for the Territory is simply to be
handed over with nothing save the Territory’s
own obligations attached. S. Australia does this
because it can’t raise the money to build a line
that will open up the Territory and make the
magmficentfortune realisable. It is in the position
of the impoverished person who knows for certain
of a great deposit of diamonds somewhere on the
head waters of the Amazon, and can’t even raise
the passage-money wherewith to go and collect
them.
» * •
The rest of the conditions which the S. A.
Parliament attaches to the transfer are the pur-
chase, by the Commonwealth, of the unfinished
transcontinental line from Port Darwin to Ood-
nadatta (S, Australia, as the State which repre-
sents one-tenth of the population, finding one-
tenth of the money), and the completion of the
line (S.A. again finding its share of the money).
These terms are also eminently reasonable. A
transcontinental railway must be built to connect
Port Darwin with the settled part of Australia,
else the Territory will remain valueless. At the
same time, it is folly to build and pay for and
maintain and work a long line when a short one
will suffice, and the Port Darwin-Port Augusta
line is the short line par excellence, as the follow-
ing measurements —taken as the crow flies—will
show :
Port Darwin to Melbourne .. 1988 miles.
„ „ Sydney .. 1960 „
~ ~ Newcastle .. 1954 ~
~ ~ Brisbane .. 1784 „
„ ~ Albany .. 1679 ~
~ ~ Adelaide .. 1659 ~
~ ~ Fremantle .. 1568 ~
„ ~ Rockhampton.. 1505 ~
~ ~ Port Augusta .. 1472 ~
Furthermore, (1) the short line is partly built
already, and though it will need improvement to
fit it for carrying express traffic, still a vast
amount of the work is done. (2) On this route
the Commonwealth will own every foot of the
railway from sea to sea, and it is stipulated
that it may arrange to acquire Port Augusta, and
thus own the two termini also. The advantage
of this position as compared with any scheme
whereby the transcontinental railway would be
partly a State and partly a Federal concern is
obvious. (3) This line will cross the whole Terri-
tory from north to south, and open up the
Commonwealth’s 523,620 square miles of property
as much as any single railway can do, whereas
the advocates of rival routes propose a line through
Western Queensland, which will only traverse
the coastal fringe of the Territory and do the
smallest possible amount of opening-up so far as
that country is concerned. (4) In every scheme
of a real transcontinental railway there is the so-
called desert to be crossed, but this scheme
tackles the desert at almost its narrowest part
and makes about the quickest possible time across
it. These are solid and material reasons in favor
of the straight Port Darwin-Port Augusta route.
A political reason is that the terms proposed are
the best that the Price Government was able
to wrest from its State Legislature. It had to
struggle with people who thought the proposed
offer too lavish ; with people who still thought
S.A. could borrow the money wherewith to finish
the railway and open up the Territory, whereby
it might keep the profits of the enterprise for
itself ; with anti-Federalists who hated the idea
of the Commonwealth acquiring this vast pro-
perty on any terms whatever ; with nigger-labor
folk who would rather see the Territory handed
back to England and made an appanage of the
Government at Calcutta, and flooded with our
cheap Brown Brother; and with people who
opposed out of shber cussedness. And if the Aus-
tralian Parliament doesn’t grasp the Territory
with both hands while this eminently favorable
offer is available, it is quite possible that, in the
chapter of accidents, the chance may never come
again.
Why, then, it may be asked, did the new
Government skedaddle into recess without an
attempt to secure the ratification of the agreement
which the Deakin Ministry fixed up with S.A.
over this matter? It is a desperately urgent
matter. When N.S.W. abandoned the Territory
in the early 60’s it lapsed back into the condition
of a British Crown colony. It is one to this day.
There is a pledge that it will be ceded to S.A.
when the transcontinental railway is finished, but
that railway isn’t finished, nor does S.A. alone
seem able to raise the money for the work. There
is also a promise that it will become definitely a
part of Australia when the Commonwealth takes
it over; but the lagging Commonwealth doesn’t
take it over. Therefore it is still a British Crown
colony. The Federal tariff and the White Aus-
tralia policy are only there on sufferance. Any
day—this very evening, perhaps—news may
arrive that the British Government has, by an
Order-in-Council, cancelled the arrangement
whereby the Lost Province is tentatively adminis-
tered from Adelaide; and has resumed possession.
Then, whether it attaches the Territory to the
dominions of the Viceroy at Calcutta or sends out
an autocrat of its own, the unity of Australia is
gone and White Australia has disappeared for
ever. Already Britain’s Japanese ally is reported
to have pointed out to Bull over and over again
that the Aliens Restriction Act doesn’t really
apply to the Territory; that it is Bull’s own
523,000 square miles of country ; that it is really
Bull who is keeping his Japanese and Chinese
and Hindu friends out of this empty and desirable
land ; and that the act is an unfriendly one on
Bull’s part. Similar influencesarealmost certainly
being brought to bear from India; and are certainly
being brought to bear in England by the diseased
philanthropists who love “our cullud brother,”
and send out missionaries to rouse him from his
heathen repose. If Bull one day yields to this
or some similar pressure, what can Australia say
by way of complaint ? Bull doesn’t profess any
special sympathy with our White Australia
ideas, but he is apparently quite willing that we
should enforce them in our own domains. He has
told Australia distinctly that, by a stroke of the
pen, it may legally acquire 523,000 square miles
of country which now belong to Bull, and may
make the White Australia policy law throughout
that great region. If Australia won’t trouble to
take what is offered it, and if one day,-,, perhaps
before Parliament meets again, Bt i. can make
an Asiatic friend or pacify an Asiatic enemy by
admitting his colored subjects freely to the
Territory, why should he not do it? His act
would be perfectly legal, and as Australia
was too tired to definitely extend its White
Australia law to the Territory in the sim-
ple method that was open to it, he will have
no reason to suppose that even Australia will
object very much. A country that takes so little
trouble can’t be supposed to be strong on ideals.
Yet with all these reasons for haste the Fisher
Government (like the ones which preceded it) has
drifted into recess and left this great question
lying about loose.
* * • *
Apparently the reason is that the curse of State
selfishness has broken out again as it did over the
Federal capital. There are mean economists
around who propose that the Commonwealth
should take over the Territory but only assume
part of its debt, and leave South Australia to
carry the balance; also, of course, its share
(about one-tenth) of the proportion taken over.
This is in addition to the fact that South Aus-
tralia must shoulder, in any case, the accumulated
losses on the bit of unfinished transcontinental
line (Port Augusta to Oodnadatta) which lies
within the limits of its own State, and these
losses, by reason of the fact that the line is an
unfinished one which ends nowhere, have been
very heavy. This is a poor reward for the State
which, during 45 weary years, has held the fort
against wholesale Asiatic immigration, and made
stupendous losses in the process, but the proposal is
made in all seriousness. Then a Queensland crowd
has devised a scheme whereby a large section of
the line already built is to be abandoned, and the
transcontinental railway is to diverge at Hergott
Springs, wander through Western Queensland, and
only enter the Territory near the north coast.
Immediately on top of this came a scheme whereby
the transcontinental railway is to start at Port
Darwin, run straight into western Queensland
(connecting with Brisbane), go on through western
N.S.W. (connecting with Sydney), and finish at
Melbourne. This idea, which is a cynical appeal
to the greed and selfishness of the three great
eastern States, would produce these results : (1) It
wouldn’t open up the Territory after all, because
the railway would take the shortest cut out of the
Territory, and the Commonwealth’s new pos-
session would thus be greatly depreciated ; (2) the
line would be vastly longer than that to Port
Augusta; (3) it would be under divided control,
being partly State and partly Federal; (4) there
would be no chance of the Commonwealth owning
the two termini of the great railway ; (5) the
proposed arrangement would make the large
southern section of the line that is already built a
mere bad debt, and an abandoned streak of old
iron ; (6) it would be a reversion to the old nefari-
ous policy of .trying to drag all population to
where population is already thickest; and (7) as
it would be directly contrary to the agreement
already fixed up, the whole negotiation would
have to be begun afresh. And if the new negoti-
ation failed, the Territory might lapse back to
Britain and become a nigger-infested appanage of
India, after all.
* * * *
But with all these conflicting conspiracies in
view, it was quite obvious that if a weak Govern-
ment, with a weak and precarious following
behind it, tried to deal with the Northern Terri-
tory question, it was bound to be wrecked some-
where. An elected Ministry with a fixed tenure
of office might have fought the question ; a mere
Party Government Ministry, liable to be sacked
at a moment’s notice, couldn’t do so unless it had
a strong following, or a large, patriotic reckless-
ness about its job. So the matter is hung up
indefinitely, and by the time Parliament meets
again the Territory may have resumed its old
status as a British Crown colony, and nigger
immigration may have commenced on a large
scale, and White Australia may be a vanished
dream.
THE CURSE OF BENT AND THE MISERY
OF HAYING SWINBURNE ON THE
PREMISES.
The Tory elements in Victorian politics have
come together again. A week or two ago Tommy
Bent was defeated by 37 votes to 25, because even
the Tories whose work he did had tired of his
vulgarity and treachery and incapacity. By try-
ing to please everybody, by throwing overboard
every item of his policy as soon as opposition
appeared on the horizon, by sacrificing his friends
when he thought it would pay and crawling to his
enemies when he fancied it would be remunera-
tive, by promising everything to everybody“who
asked for it, by an open, frank, brutal acknow-
ledgment of his belief in bribery and corruption
(“he voted against me and I made him a member
of the Blankport Harbor Board, too, ” was his per-
petual wail when things went wrong), and
by his horrible comic ditties and his in-
credible song-and-dance proceedings, Tommy of
the Cabbages dissipated, in 17 months, about the
biggest majority that had ever followed a Vic-
torian Premier. But the men who repented have
thought better of it. Instead of resigning, Bent
persuaded a fresh amateur Governor to grant him
a dissolution, and then he projected his vast
waistcoat into the orbit of events. Exactly how
much loam he ate in the process of the negotia-
tion will probably never be known, but at all
events he and the holy gasman, Swinburne, and
A. Peacock of the amazing laugh, and the rest of
the old elements have decided to go to the country
as a solid party once more. When the elections
are over, the party is to meet and decide whether
it can stand Bent any longer, but Bent will
doubtless have greased many wheels by that
time, and much muddy water will have flowed
under the bridge. Therefore the anti-BKNT
elements are now reduced to the Labor party led
by Prendergast, and Murray and his few fol-
lowers. They have decided to sta,nd no more Bent
at any price.
* • • *
And over this result the Melbourne Argus and
the S. M. Herald are jubilant. This was the
Herald’s comment on the situation :
It is wholly satisfactory to find this morning that Mr.
Swinburne is on the right side, and that the Government
goes to the polls with a practically unanimous party.
Doubtless much of the difficulty with the party lies with
the Premier. If he were out of the way friction would
disappear, and the personal attacks which now tend to
obscure the main issue would no longer hamper the
conduct of leading men. But Mr. Bent is very much in
the way. He has an unrivalled knowledge of the game,
and is too old a campaigner to t hrow any of his advan-
tages as a gift to rivals or critics. Mis astuteness in
obtaining a dissolution shows the sort of leader he is, and
for the present a leader he must remain. Mr. Swinburne
has now left the personal question entirely outof account,
lie must take action, as has already been indicated, on
the main issue—the true interests of Victoria ; and, how-
ever objectionable the Premier’s tactics may have been,
it is clear that a Socialist victory will be little short of a
calamity for the southern State. Both Queensland and
Victoria are in the same boat in this respect. Neither
can afford at the present juncture to destroy the confi-
dence which has grown as the result of State administra-
tion and a sound policy ; and to let the extremists to
power would throw both States back a generation.
Capital would quickly disappear, whatever the Socialists
may think, confidence would be lost, employment would
shrink, emigration and not immigration would become
the order of the day ; and before the inevitable period of
reconstruction arrived much misery to individuals and
loss of Stage prestige would be caused.
“ The extremists ” in this case—the men whose ac-
cession to power is to smash things generally —are
personsof theclass to which belong Premier Price of
S. A., J. C. Watson, Fisher (now Prime Minister)
and Kidston of Queensland, who was also a Labor
leader at one time. Even the S. M. Herald
wouldn’t dare to say that these men have gone
around smashing things promiscuously, but it
works off the old gags about “socialists” and
“extremists” and the disappearance of capital
because the ancient lie has become a habit.
* * * •
So Tommy Bent goes to the country as the
representative of “the true interests of Victoria.”
Tommy represents the party which has held the
reins in Victoria for the past 30 years or there-
abouts. He was a land-boomer of the old boom
type, and it was under the regime of his friends
and his party that Victoria made the heroic
smash of the early ’9o’s. That smash arose
through ignorant and bumptious Tory louts
playing at finance after the manner of children
playing with fire. The Commercial Bank of
Australia lost something approaching £4,000,000 —
probably the biggest sum ever lost by a bank
without the institution doing a total disappear-
ance. The Federal Bank vanished. The Mer-
cantile Bank vanished. The Real Estate Bank
vanished. A dozen land banks, founded by
Bent’s friends, vanished. The Standard Bank,
the British Bank of Australasia, the Land
Credit Bank, and Heaven only knows how many
more vanished in the confusion. Bent himself
vanished for a while, and “went on the land.”
Such institutions as the Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank and the Land Mortgage Bank of
Victoria still survive, but they have never made
good the awful losses which arose through Bent’s
friends fooling with financial matters of which
they knew nothing. The brewing interest of
Melbourne hasn’t got over the smash to this day.
In the awful period when the old Bent crowd was
running things it was impossible to throw a
half-brick in Collins-street without hitting a
broken building society which had gone to
wreck under the management of some fine old
Tory of the party whereof Bent is now the boss
representative. The assessed value of property
in Melbourne and suburbs dropped by £24,000,000,
and the flight of capital from the State was some-
thing incredible. With these events still un-
forgotten, the assurance of the Tory press that
the only way to prevent capital flying from
Victoria is to keep Bent and his kind in office is
something too magnificent for words.
• • » *
Tommy Bent, as already mentioned, represents
the party which has held office in Victoria for the
last 30 years or more. And Victoria is urged to
return Bent and his crew to office, because, if
they are not returned, people will leave the
country, and “emigration and not immigration
will become the order of the day.” Well, the
following table, taken from the official statistics,
represents the condition of Victoria in this
respect during the period when, not the Laborites,
but the party which Bent represents, has been at
the head of affairs :
Excess of Departures over Arrivals in Victoria.
1892 .. 11,058 1900 .. 7,828
1893 .. 12.484 1901 .. 1,428
1894 .. 12,698 1902 .. 13,716
1895 .. 14,410 1903 .. 16,570
1896 .. 22,134 1904 .. 13,920
1897 .. 13,754 1905 .. 7,164
1898 .. 11,127 1906 ..
1899 .. 8,020
That is a ghastly enough record for a rich young
country which has a population of only 14 persons
to the square mile. And the Bent faction, with
its Conservative land policy and its craving to
preserve the big estates, has been in power all
the time.
« * * 9
As was mentioned in last week’s issue, Victoria
struck one blessing in its lamentable career. It
got Protection, and Protection kept Melbourne
going strongly—Melbourne where the big factories
and the big Trades Unions and the chief
Labor influences are —and because Melbourne was
very much alive the State couldn’t be wholly dead.
It is no credit to Bent and the crowd to which he
belonged—the old Duncan Gillies push—that
this blessing came to pass, for Bent is a Foreign-
trader of the most awful kind, and Duncan
Gillies was a similar iniquity ; but the blessing
came in spite of them. And when Federation
arrived it confirmed and expanded the blessing
of Protection in spite of all that Bent and his
admirers could do. But so far the Australian
Government has not interfered with the land
question, and the state of the Victorian country
districts is a dreadful commentary on the
incapacity of Bent and his friends. There are 37
counties in Victoria, and when the records of the
last four censuses (1871, 1881, 1891 and 1901) are
compared, some very remarkable results make
themselves apparent:—
Present Population of 13 Victorian Counties Compared
with Largest Population.
1871. 1901. Decrease.
Talbot .. .. 84,762 57,398 27,364
Grenville .. 60,917 48,146 12,771
Dalhousie .. 26,471 20,378 6,093
Grant .. .. 73,828 71,034 2,794
Wonnangatta .. 3,972 2,271 1,701
Ripon .. .. 14,010 12,689 1,321
1881.
Gladstone .. 19,995 17,953 2,042
Kara Kara .. 16.515 16,431 84
1891.
Loxvan .. .. 16,820 14,190 2,630
Gunbower .. 8,706 8,167 539
Millewa .. .. 172 112 60
Eollett .. .. 2,749 2,715 34
Rodney.. .. 19,155 19,140 15
It is a record which calls for a lot of deep thought.
The Labor party has never been in power or in
sight of power in Victoria. Almost ever since
the place was a State it has been run by Bent or
Bent’s friends or people of Bent’s way of think-
ing. These people have managed to depopulate,
or partially depopulate, 13 out of 37 counties, all
located in the most fertile part of the State. Yet
they offer their own unsupported assurance that
the only way to prevent the hurried departure of
population is to return Bent and his followers and
the holy gas-man Swinburne to office again.
* * * *
Between 1901 and 1907 the population of Vic-
toria was estimated to have increased by 56,799.
But 47,777 of that increase was in Melbourne,
Bendigo, Geelong, Castlemaine, Warrnambool,
and Maryborough, and was owing to protected
manufactures—and Bent, the Foreign-trader, is
distinctly hostile to protected manufactures. The
agricultural towns and the great agricultural and
pastoral areas, which are cursed by the Tory land
policy of Bent and his friends, showed an increase
of only 9022 people—about 1500 per annum, and


even that was in the small towns ; the purely agri-
cultural areas showed, so far as the evidence goes,
an absolute decline. And even the humble
increase of 9022 people appears to have
been mostly an increase of aged and super-
annuated folk who were left behind in
the rush to get away from the curse of Bent and
his friends and his policy ; for Victoria is in the
amazing position of having 66,000 people qualified
for the old-age pension, while N.S.W., with a
much larger population, can only raise a moderate
47,000. Victoria is a rich State—one of the
richest on earth. But the traditional Bent policy
has been to concentrate the wealth in the hands
of a few ; and that policy is making Victoria a
land of old men, old women, unmarried young
women, children (not too many children), huge
landlords (often away playing the absentee, and
often persons of strange morals and remark-
able records), huge bank balances, and
one huge city. In the matter of men
Victoria had 609,546 in 1901, and in 1904
it had 605.038. It is a sad record—this record of
the results produced by Bent and his friends.
♦ * » #
The policy of the party which, under one de-
signation and another, has held office in Victoria
for very many years, has been an unwholesome
course of bribery. Taking the country districts
first, they have been bribed (1) by non-paying
railways; (2) by absurdly low freights ; (3) by
exemption from any save a nominal land-
tax—so nominal and so badly administered
that the yield from it is steadily de-
creasing ; (4) by being permitted to so
falsify their valuations that £IOOO worth of land
may be valued for rating purposes at £250, and
the alleged shilling rate thus becomes a mere
threepenny rate; (5) by huge grants from the
Treasury in aid of roads and bridges, -in order
to make good the loss caused by the under-
valuation swindle ; (6) by being allowed
to brazenly repudiate their water supply
and irrigation liabilities; (7) by lavish distribu-
tions of loan moneys; (8) by other devices too
numerous to mention. All these things, however,
tended to throw an absurdly huge load of taxation
on the city man, so he was bribed in his turn.
The bribe in his case was an artificial and ridicu-
lous arrangement of the railway system, devised
so as to drag all the foreign trade of Victoria to
Melbourne. It was all disease and bribery and un-
wholesomeness—an unnaturally large city bloated
out of all proportion through the dragging to it of
trade which, owing to the absurd distances, couldn’t
be dragged to it without heavy loss to somebody ;
while the city repaid the kindness thus bestowed
on it by subsidising the big landlords who
were driving population out of the coun-
try and making its richest districts a wilder-
ness. But amid all this bribery the Tory
party never thought of doing anything for
posterity, because posterity isn’t born yet. It
didn’t think of buying the goodwill of the
small farmer, because he hardly exists. Ana it
didn’t dream of cadging for the support of any
seaport town save Melbourne, because, so far, the
others have practically no population. It would
be infinitely better for Victoria as a whole if its
western railways and its western trade concen-
trated at Portland, and a great city sprung up
there, instead of trade being aragged over vast
needless distances to Melbourne; but there are
hardly any people at Portland, and the Tory
policy doesn’t look ahead. It cares nothing for
posterity or for the future of the country. All it
thinks of is getting the vote of the man who is
there now.
• * * *
The Bulletin has no very gorgeous opinion of
the capacity of George Michael Prendergast,
but it urges the Victorian people to vote for
him and his party with all their heart and soul.
Politically Prendergast can’t be as bad as Bent,
for no politician can be as bad as Bent is now. If
Prendergast gets the Premiership and proves a
failure, he can be thrown out, so the experiment
isn’t irrevocable. It is only by remorselessly
throwing out the Premier who has brought utter
disgrace on the community that there is any hope
or prospect of real reform. A State which does
that gets a decent progressive Government sooner
or later, but a State which sticks always to Bent
because Bent says that Prendergast is a dan-
gerous character has Bent lying on its conscience
so long as that person lives, and when he dies
Bent’s minion takes up the job. No experiment
which gets rid of Bent can be described as
hazardous, for Bent has become the last possi-
bility in the way of incapacity and political dis-
honor. This is the fact which Victoria requires to
Easte in its hat if it hopes to become anything
etter than the lamentable circumstance it is
to-day.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Folly of Exporting Raw Material.
On Friday last there left Sydney for Rotterdam
(Europe) the ship Hougomont, loaded up with
4000 tons of oil shale from the Wolgan Valley of
N.S.W. This is the largest shipment of oil shale
ever sent from N. S. Wales, and others on a simi-
lar scale are to follow. The German is raking our
shale away as fast as he can get it, although he
has large quantities of his own. Nobody sup-
poses that the German is buying Australian shale
out of love for Australia, and when he buys it in
the face of the fact that he has so much of his own,
he thereby proves conclusively that the Australian
product has special qualifications which make it
worth while to drag it half way round the world.
For that 4000 tons of shale Australia will get in
the gross £BOOO. Some of it contains 160 gallons
of oil to the ton, none of it is below the 120-gallon
mark, so if it is averaged at 130 gallons to the ton
it will be a low estimate. And at the lowest esti-
mate, allowing nothing for the highly-priced bye-
products, that oil is worth in its crude state Is. 6d.
per gallon ; so that shipment of 4000 tons of shale
represents at least £39,000, for which Australia
receives £BOOO. Therefore this country, through
having (by reason of its Freetrade folly) no oil
industry, loses £31,000 on that single shipment,
and as the export of the rich shale is going ahead
with leaps and bounds, the loss threatens to run
into millions in the near future. It might be
worth mentioning, also, that the greater bulk of
that loss is in wages. ' It comes out of the pockets
of the men who are represented by the Labor party
—the party which sinks the fiscal issue ; and which
was, largely at the instigation of J. C. Watson,
responsible for the removal of the duty on
kerosene, a deletion which handed over the Aus-
tralian oil trade to the infamous Standard Oil
Trust of U.S. A. It is a shocking example of the
disease called Commerce, and the Freetrade statis-
tician of the awful Pulsford type will be delighted
over the transaction. He will point with pride
to the fact that our exports of shale are jumping
skyward, and ignore the fact that every ship-
ment of 1000 tons represents a loss, chiefly in
wages, of £7750. And when Australia sends
abroad a few thousand pounds’ worth of raw wool
to be made into tweed elsewhere, and after making
a loss on that also, uses the money it got front the
sale of the shale and the wool to re-import a little of
the manufactured wool products from Germany,
Puls. ■ > will be in a perfect frenzy of delight,
because rite statistics will show that our imports
as well as our exports are soaring up magnificently.
It isn't as though that shipment of shale were a
solitary horrible example—the same principle
applies toalmost everything that Australia exports.
The daily Freetrade papers rave about the urgent
need to encourage immigration. Well, as good a
way as any to encourage immigration is to make
work for people who come here, and if we had an
oil industry here that £31,000 on board the Hougor
mont that will go into Dutch or German pockets
would have stayed in Australian pouches—mostly
those of Australian artisans. The previous week
saw another ship, only a little one, take away
2000 tons of shale; so, in one fortnight, N.S.W.
(and Australia) lost £46,500 through having no
import duty on kerosene, and the loss is at the
rate of £1,209,000 per annum. That sum would
pay wages to quite an army of people. No
wonder the Yankees regard us as fools! A
country that throws away an industry like that
should certainly have its capital called after an
animal with long ears—the Yass.
Lo! The Gentle Indian.
The inadequately tutored savage who toils for a
small wage aboard P. and O. steamers gave the
black labor cause another bad ad. on the 16th
inst. The.Seedee-boysof the Mongolia started “dis-
cussing politics ” with the Punjabis—whom mail-
ship passengers know generically as Lascars. The
Punjabi coolie’s immemorial method of clinching
an argument is to grab a knife, tomahawk, or axe,
and therewith to lay open the rival controver-
sialist. This is what happened on the Mongolia.
Thus the S. M. Herald’s war correspondent the
morning after the fray :
The Punjabis started on the Seedee-boys, and soon a
desperate encounter was in progress. Knives, forks,
hammers, hardwood sticks, shovels, and anything that
came to hand were snatched up, and freely used in the
m@l6e. Although greatly outnumbered, the Africans
gave a good account of themselves. They used fists and
sticks against the knives of the Punjabis. Several of the
combatants on both sides were injured. Blood was freely
flowing from a dozen of the fighters. A Seedee-boy fell
from a knife thrust in the body, and a couple of Indians
were knocked almost senseless by blows on the head.
Both sides yelled and swore, and their shouts, mingling
with the cries of the wounded, created a veritable in-
ferno. The forecastle was slippery with blood from the
combatants.
The angel of peace in the form of a horde of con-
stables descended on the scene after a while, and
haled the more aggressive gore-spillers to the
lockup. The Lascars who weren’t arrested held
converse together, and decided that the liberty of
the subject had been outraged. They couldn’t
understand it. Again in the words of the
Herald—
They resented their companions being taken to gaol.
They demanded their release, and, refusing to obey the
officers, left the ship in a body. Shouting and gesticu-
lating, they made towards Circular Quay. A crowd soon
collected, and the Indians were the centre of a surging
mob. A number of city police and water police were at
hand in case of further disorder. The Punjabis, chiefly
firemen and greasers, were attired in all sorts of dis-
reputable-looking attire. Many were barefooted, some
were clothed in garments made from hessian bags;
several had cuts, bruises and bandages—mute evidence
of the recent affray. All were black with soot and oil,
and presented a wildly dishevelled aspect.
Their objective was the abiding-place of the
P. and O. manager. Fortunately, at this stage a
brace of Machiavelian John Dunns chanced
along, and piloted the band into the Water Police
Court yard (they told the band the specious tale
that the P. and O. manager lived in the yard in
an undefended state), and there left it to cool.
It was providential, from a heap of standpoints,
that the colored brethren embarked in political
controversy while the Mongolia was berthed by the
shores of a well-policed city. Had the vessel been
at sea the handful of white officers and quarter-
masters that ships of her class carry would have
been hard put to it to prevent not only the fore-
castle, but also the spar and hurricane decks
and the saloons and the cabins being made
“slippery with the blood of combatants,”
and also with the blood of non-combatants —folks
whose last wish when they booked their passages
was to find themselves in a confined space on a
waste of waters while Asiatics were running
amok. The chairman of the P. &O. Company
complained last week about the diminution of
passenger traffic of late years on the Australian
run. A possible explanation is to be found in the
fact that rival companies—the Orient, the White
Star, the N.D.L., the Messageries Mari times,
and others—either employ no blacks at all (this
is the case with the two first-named concerns)
or only employ a limited number; and that
below decks where the passengers are not liable
to come across them. The P. & O. nigger is
always in evidence. He is paraded in state, with
his gladdest rags swathed about him, each Sunday
for the edification of voyagers. He pervades every
part of the steamer on week-days, pottering
futilely away morning, noon, and night at his
brass-polishings, deck-scrubbings, rope-coilings,
and the like. His habits are dreadful. He is
physically dirty. It is his unpleasant way to
cast on white women-folk the tender, yearning
regard that maddens the ladies’ relatives when
they observe it. Anglo-Indians who comprehend
his lingo tell fearsome yarns of the remarks he
passes to his brother-nigs. while about his daily
board-ship toil, concerning the points of conforma-
tion, etc., of the travelling Caucasian damsel—
preferably in her presence and hearing. In his
favor it may be owned that he doesn’t demand
big wages, that he is indifferent as to where he
bunks, that he eats little, works long hours, and
in general plays the rfile of slave in a fairly satis-
factory style. But even as a slave there are
weak points discernible in him. He is too un-
disciplined, too easily roused to riot and mutiny,
and too ready when so roused to submit his griev-
ances to the arbitrament of the meat-chopper.
Taken for all in all, he makes one of the jumpiest
and most unsatisfactory fellow-voyagers imagin-
able for a long sea journey.
The Marriage Tie Again.
Three items, curiously connected with each other,
appeared in the Melbourne morning dailies On the
16th. The first item reported the return of Wal-
pole, the lecturer for the Employees’ Federation,
who has been on a health trip abroad. Walpole
is the gentleman who, at one of his meetings, re-
ferred to marriage as a luxury for working men.
The second item was the report of a meeting of
clergymen, of various denominations, to discuss
the unemployed question. When Walpole was
taxed with his marriage-luxury statement, he first
denied it, and then said it was a joke. Finally
his employers indignantly asked if they were to
be held responsible for every word their lecturer
said ? It is therefore very interesting to hear, at
first hand, what the employers think on the ques-
tion of marriage for the working classes. At the
meeting of the clergymen the following remarks,
as reported by the Age, were made
Rev. Mr. Dixon said that complaints were often heard
that men could not be got; but plenty of labor was
available if fair wages were offered. In one instance that
had come under his notice a married man had been
offered £1 per week, and when he (Mr. Dixon) spoke to
the employer of this offer, he was met with the observa-
tion—“ Men are not compelled to marry.”
Rev. T. S. Woodfuld said the ugly aspect of it was that
decent working men were not able to marry because they
could not get decent wages for their labor ; but the out-
come of that position was to bolster up another man, who
could thus keep three wives.
The third item was the report of a meeting in
Gippsland, where loud and shrill complaints were
raised by farmers about the “ shortage of labor.”
One speaker said, fiercely, that if the Govern-
ment did its duty it would import 1000
farm laborers. And yet, except for a few
weeks during harvest, the wage offered is never
more than £1 a week and found, and is often very
much less. The farmer knows well that he
himself cannot do much for his family on £1 a
week; but he never dreams of the possibility of
the employee having a wife and family, or desir-
ing these useful adjuncts. And, when there
is little labor offering on these rascally
terms, he calls on Heaven to witness
his predicament, and curses the Govern-
ment for not relieving him. If the average
farmer had his way he would import, not 1000,
but 1,000,000 farm laborers, so that they would be
tumbling over each other after jobs, and would be
at last content to work for their tucker and the
farmer’s cast-off pants. They wouldn’t want
coats, for they wouldn’t have time to put them
on. And when Tom Tunnkcliffe, the Labor
man who represents a country constituency, says
that he wants a Wages Board for farm-laborers, the
Argus makes a cross-heading of the awful fact,
and almost faints at the announcement. Yet, if
the Argus were accused of having designs on the
marriage tie, it would probably blush to the roots
of its bonnet.
“ Loppy.”
Thus “Loppy,” whom The Bulletin knows for
a good unionist : —
The Federal Arbitration Court award of 1907 in the
sheep-shearing business will come up for revision in 1909.
It. is possible that some other than the shearer will benefit
from-the revision, and this is written to put the case of
the “loppy” and others.
Experience of the past two shearings has brought two
tilings clearly into view. First, never before have there
been so many big tallies reported from every pastoral
district in the Commonwealth ; and, secondly, the posi-
tion of the shearer has so advanced in strength that he
looks down, in the height of his power, upon his fellow-
workers in the shed. The shed bosses, experts, and wool-
pressers are now' classed in his mind and speech with the
rouseabout under the generic term “ Loppy.” Small
wonder, for he is above them all!
It is natural, of course, that when a man receives a 20
per cent, increase in pay, he should consider himself at
least 20 per cent, more important in the scheme of
things. The shearer values himself at more than that,
for he is pretty sure that in the 1909 revision he will
receive a further increase, and a consequently greater
importance. Meanwhile he has shown little desire to help
his less fortunate co-worker, the “ loppy,” in any way.
ltather he increases the burden. As thus :—
Under the Arbitration award, 48 hours constitute a
week’s work. But it works out at a minimum of 54 hours
for all othershed workers, and, to get these 54 hours in,
it is necessary for all “loppies” to attend on the shearer
for a minimum of 60 hours per week, and in the case of
cooks and slushies, for a further 15 or 16 hours. These
extra hours are shearer-made, and are quite avoidable.
A typical day’s work in any shed will illustrate.
The rate of pay does not enter into the question at
all, be it understood. The first whistle blows at
5.30 a.m. All hands but the cooks apd engine-driver—
they are up at 4.30 a.m.—arise from their downy wool-
packs, to snatch a pot of tea and a bite before thewhistle
blows at 6 o’clock, when shearing starts. The breakfast
run lasts for two hours—for the shearer. The “loppy”
has to wait until the last sheep is off the board, ten
minutes perhaps and later, since a shearer-made custom
prevails to reserve the toughest sheep in the catching-pen
for the “ bell sheep.” Generally “loppy” meets many of
the shearers returning from meals before he reaches his
own tea-bucket.
Start again at 9 sharp, and run till 10.20, when
there is a spell for the shearer of 20 minutes ; for
“ loppy,” about 10. Another run of 1 hour 20 minutes,
and then dinner. More tough “ bell ” sheep for “ loppy ”
to wait for. Start at 1 o’clock, and thence on to 5.50,
with two breaks of 20 and 30 minutes respectively. At
6.50 the last whistle blows, and the shed is cleaned up of
all wool, giving “loppy" liberty to hobble down at 6
o’clock or later, to be abused by the cook for being late.
“ Loppy ” is thus on his legs from 5.80 a.m. to 6 p.m. to
get in 8 hours 40 minutes work, the 40 minutes being
added to allow work to finish at 12 on Saturday. On
Saturday “ loppy ” has to be in the shed after dinner to
clean up generally, and, if he is a shed-hand, to wash
down the whole floor, which he does in about half-an-
hour. Total hours for the week, not fewer than 66!
It has often been asked why the tallies have become so
much greater of late years, and to those who have to
wait on the shearer the answer is plain. They are a direct
result of a shearer-made rule of short “ runs,” punctuated
by comparatively long spells, and would not be possible
if shearers worked as navvies, etc., work, in two runs of
4hrs. 20min. each, with an hour’s break for dinner.
In the old and comparatively easy-going days of
“ blade ’’ shearing, our position was immensely better, for
wool-rooms were designed then to handle a certain
amount of wool per day, while very few have been altered
to allow for the greatly accelerated pace of machine-
shearing. Consequently the “ loppy ” has to work at as
high pressure as the shearer on one-fifth of the wage, and
for longer hours.
What we want is more consideration from our incon-
siderate brother, the shearer. We want something better
than increase of pay, although that is good. We want
something better than putting in 12£ hours per day, to
make up 8 hours 40 minutes. Everybody concerned but
the shearer wants it too. Owners, bosses, musterers,
cooks, shed-hands, pressers, experts—all would then have
a little comfort and reasonable hours at the expense of
not more than, say, from 10 to 20 sheep per day per
shearer. In reality, he would not lose that number, for
he would not so often want a spell of a day under the
two-“run” system of steady work, as against the six-
“run” system of rip, slash and tear.
♦
Elective Ministries and Parliamentary
Stagnation.
The Fisher Ministry has fled into recess without
any progress being made with the Defence
question, or with the taking over of the Northern
Territory, which is a part of the Defence question;
and as the Ministry isn’t expected to bolt back
out of recess for about six months these urgent
matters seem likely to have a long, quiet rest.
This restful habit arises quite naturally out of the
present absurd and illogical system of govern-
ment. If Australia had Elective Ministries fixed
for three years, the Cabinet wouldn’t be perpetu-
ally sprinting for the haven of recess and dropping
its luggage as it ran, because it and its billet would
be just as safe while Parliament was sitting as at
any other time. But with the existing method the
only time when a Government’s job and wage are
secure for even a moment is when the Houses are
shut up and the work of the country is wholly
suspended. An Elective Ministry would actually
want to keep Parliament sitting and to Do Things,
for upon his record for Doing Things would de-
pend each Minister’s chance of being re-appointed
to his portfolio. On the other hand, the Ministry
that is formed under the loony system of party
government, wants to avoid Doing Things. Doing
Things is often plain suicide. To bring in an
urgent measure of 100 clauses only means that the
Cabinet deliberately takes 103 chances of losing
its situation—it risks defeat on the first, second,
and third readings, and on each of the 100 clauses
in committee, to say nothing of about 100 more
odd chances of defeat on amendments and motions
for adjournment. Therefore the Ministry, look-
ing at the Defence Bill, asks itself: “Will we
deliberately take 203 separate risks of losing our
pay and dignity and importance, or will we
shut up and go home, and make our positions
safe for six months, and leave Australia unde-
fended ? ” Naturally enough it shuts up and goes
home, and leaves Australia undefended. Of
course, by so doing it incurs the obloquy of
neglecting the public business, but as every
Ministry under the party system neglects the
public business in order to save its skin, no
Cabinet is likely to be ejected on that ground
unless its neglect becomes something stupendous
and extraordinary. The party system is a curse
all round, and in its tendency to cause the inde-
finite hanging up of great and difficult questions,
it is an especially great curse. The establishment
of the system of Elective Ministries has become
the most urgent question in Australian politics,
for it seems as if hardly anything will really be
done until that system is established.
The Importer’s Clerk and the Manufacturer’s
Clerk.
The United Clerks’ Union of N.S.W. has thrown
a carefully-selected brick at Gregory Wade and
at sundry other members of the Assembly, and
there are hopes that that brick has struck where
it will do most good. It took the clerks
years and years of deep thought before they
decided to abandon their exclusive but wretch-
edly ill-paid attitude and to reach out for
a living wage and better conditions in the
only way that any such reach was possible
—by unionism and affiliation with the Trades
Hall. When they had so decided the rest seemed
easy, and the snag which the quill-shoving pro-
fession struck in the Assembly was quite unex-
pected. The Clerks’ Union was thrown out at
Premier Wade’s instigation, and refused the
benefit of the Industrial Disputes Act. Since
then things have been happening. The secretary
of the Clerks’ Union has written to every mem-
ber who voted against Industrial Arbitration in
clerkdom, asking him to explain whether he voted
as he did because he thought clerks were so beastly
well paid that they didn’t require consideration,
or if that wasn’t his reason what was it? Some
didn’t reply. Others said that they voted as they
did in ignorance of the real circumstances of the
case. Now these members couldn’t be ignorant
of the fact that the over-working and under-
payment of clerks is one of the horrible,
unspeakable scandals of our civilisation —
to be unaware of that would qualify a
man for the lunatic asylum; so presumably
the circumstance these members had not dropped
to was that the Clerks’ Union is likely to be a
power, and that united clerkdom is able to throw
at least six Tory members into the political dust-
bin at next election, and put Labor men in their
places. Premier Wade, however, had other ex-
planations to offer—very remarkable explana-
tions. Gregory holds that some clerks should
have the benefit of the Industrial Disputes
Act and some shouldn’t. He reckons that
a clerk in a woollen factory should come
in along with the rest of the weavers, and
the brewery clerk should be lumped in with the
beer-makers, and soon ; but that those clerks who
are not attached to any industry that is already
under the Act should remain as they are. To
quote Wade’s own words :—
Generally speaking, all persons engaged in manual labor
would be within the purview of the statute, as well as
any person connected with the industry working in inti-
mate association with those engaged in manual labor,
although their work may not be of that character.
Mr. Wade understands that those engaged in clerical
work in connection with many industries that are within
the purview of the Act, come within the jurisdiction of
the Court, or the Boards; but to establish an industry
separately for clerks may bring within the law bank
clerks, solicitors’ and barristers' clerks, whose occupations
are of a commercial ciiakacter, and have no association
with the industrial life of the country.
This shows the usual illogicalness of Wadk, for a
clerk is a manual laborer. His labor may not be
so heavy in a mere muscular sense as some, but
The Blessedness of Belonging.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It would be a very bad thing for the country if it 3 man-
hood were compelled to serve as militia. It would mean
interference with the industrial life of the community,
and an enormous reduction of its earning power. The
people of the country did not intend that any such sys-
tem should be introduced. On the other hand, we belong
to a nation that has a stronger fleet than any two nations
in the world .—Premier Ward, of Maoriland.
It is, it is a splendid thing to be a mere belonging;
To trust to other hands than ours the righting of
our wronging;
To dance demurely to a pipe that other lips are
playing,
Admitting they may choose the tune who have to
do the paying.
To hope that eyes across the sea are sedulously
scanning
Our shaping and environment; that distant heads
are planning
The binding of our swaddling-clothes, the bottles
for our feeding,
And whether spank or hushaby is what we most
are needing.
But it is just a sorry thing, beyond our counte-
nancing,
To give our sons some soldiering, here, of our own
financing;
To teach our country’s menfolk that they owe
that country duty;
To tell them it is up to them to shield their
ladies’ beauty.
Most surely we don’t want to fight, by Jingo ! It
is madness
To take us from the counting-house, the farm, for
such-like badness;
For, oh, it is not right to fight!—leastwise while
there are others
Who can be got to deputise by hailing them as
brothers.
Then twang the lyre, upraise the voice, and set
the welkin ringing
Loud echoes to this Anthem of a proud young
Nation’s singing :
“We are a money-earning crowd, a people not
intending
To fritter any time away, our own effects de-
fending,
“ While we can boast the blessedness of being a
belonging,
One more repressed dependency amid the tribe a-
thronging,
A-pushing and a-shoving, and a-begging for a
hearing,
Beside that Car Imperial which Self is always
steering.”
TONGA.
TALAFEKAU.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS ARE- NOW READY TO RECEIVE
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney,
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
SALE & EXCHANGE LIBRARY for keeping up your
supply of Fresh Subjects. Join it and Save Money.
Send to us or please call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 98 Queen St., Brisbane.
The Victorian electors have to swallow a
general election and the Christmas holidays at
one gulp, so to speak. To get through this per-
formance with credit and comfort they will also
need to swallow judicious quantities of that sus-
taining inspiration, D.C.L. Whisky. When duly
fortified with D.C.L. Wisdom the heat and
burthen of the fray—-any fray—is as cheerfully
endured as a Christmas panto.*
the man who pushes a pen is as much a worker
with his hands as the man who pushes a plane or
a barrow, and the man who drives a quill is a
manual worker just as is the one who drives
a horse or an engine. Further, the clerk who
shoves a pen in the office of McArthur, im-
porter, is quite as much a worker as his brother
who shoves the same implement in the office
of Vicars, tweed manufacturer, and it is a very
illogical prospective Chief Justice who makes fish
of one and plain beef of the other. One very
probable reason of the anomaly is this: The
Industrial Disputes Act applies to the Australian
manufacturer, but not to the importer. The
Australian manufacturer has to pay decent
wages; the foreign importer is allowed to
pay what he darned well pleases, and if
he imports his goods from low-wage countries,
where the manufacturer also pays what
he darned well pleases, he gets such an
advantage that the benefit which the tariff is sup-
posed to confer on the Australian manufacturer
may be wholly nullified. Possibly Gregory
Wade, as a virulent Foreign-trader, hates to
spoil this beautiful arrangement of things. Pos-
sibly he thinks that it is quite reasonable that the
clerk who makes out Vicars’ invoice for
Australian tweed should get £3 10s. a week,
while the one who makes out McArthur’s
invoice for imported tweed should struggle along
at £1 if his employer likes to pay him at
that figure, thereby giving the importer £l3O a
year start on this matter of one employee alone.
The arrangement may seem very beautiful to
Wade, but clerkdom is likely to make a note of
the fact that it was the Freetiade and Tory
interest which labored to keep its miserable
Wages down, and it will probably put the note
where it can find the thing on the morning of
election day.
♦
“ Old Soldier ” writes :
Sydney Telegraph lately found a text, and built on it
a leader about a “ great volunteer army.” The text was
the cabled report that a U.S. Congress Committee pro-
posed raising a volunteer army 2,000,000 strong to be
ready for emergencies. The absurd paper seized on the
yarn, and held forth with enthusiasm :
“ Excepting Great Britain, the United States is the
only first-class Power in the world that depends upon
voluntary military service.”
Then it talked about the enlisted army of the Union,
60,000 strong, and proclaimed itself a perverter of the
truth in this wise :
“There are, supplementary to these, organised and re-
served militia, the former with a total strength of
125,000, while the reserves—justifying their title with
literal accuracy—consist of uncalled men between the
ages of 18 and - 45 years. ALL THESE are not only under
the same obligation to service in defence as obtains in
every country, WHETHER IT IS EXPRESSED OR
NOT, but THEY ARE LEGALLY LIABLE TO SERVE
IN A NATIONAI. EMERGENCY FOR TWO YEARS,
SO THAT COMPULSION TO SERVICE IS MUCH
MORE EXPLICITLY provided for than it is with us."
There it was in plain words, in the middle of the leader,
showing that the statement in the beginning about how
the U.S. depended on voluntary military service was a
mere product of the Telegraph’s disordered brain. It
still has “conscription” on the organism it thinks it
thinks with. It even tries to supply alleged arguments
for “ Australian conscriptionists,” whoever they may be,
to account for the alleged Yankee eccentricity, on the
ground that the volunteer system—
“ Is preferable because it brings into the service the
men most fitted for the work. It enables a selection to
be made, because there is no necessity to treat the fit
and unfit, the lazy and the active, the clever and the
dull, all the same as inevitable soldiers so long as they
are not physically incapacitated; and that selective
operation is made the easier because where service is
voluntary the majority of those who enrol will naturally
be men who like the work for its own sake, and have the
invaluable stimulus of enthusiasm.”
Yet the Telegraph cannot surely have forgotten the
Boer war, and Australia’s experience with its successive
contingents. The “ invaluable stimulus of enthusiasm,”
combined with higher pay than is received by any
other army on earth, produced a total of 15,000
men or thereabouts, and, after about the first two
contingents, each one that was sent was physically
and morally worse than its predecessor. The ex-
perience of the British army' has been the same. When
times are good the rate of recruiting is quite insufficient
to keep up the numbers, except in certain favored corps
such as the Artillery and Engineers, where men can earn
extra'working pay. As for the expenditure of men
in war, recruiting has never been able to keep up with it.
There was poor old Raglan’s cry from the Crimea:
“ For God’s sake, send no more boy recruits.” It broke
his heart to see them filling the hospitals. It was the
same in India in the Mutiny. At the time of the out-
break in May,’s7, most of the regiments in the country
were full of seasoned old soldiers, and the campaigning
life suited them fairly well. But the hard fighting round
Delhi, Cawnpore, Lucknow, etc., reduced many regi-
ments to skeletons, and when, after the neck of the
rising was broken, the recruits —the men with “the in-
valuable stimulus of enthusiasm ’’—began to arrive, they
sickened and went into hospital wholesale because
they couldn’t stand the long, rapid marches. Enthu-
siasm is useless without stamina.
♦
The imminence of the Vic. State elections draws
attention to the disgraceful anomalies in repre-
sentation in the State that has the awful Bent
adhering to it. According to the latest figures,
there are 263,909 electors entitled to vote for 65
members, and an analysis into metropolitan,
urban and country constituencies gives this
result: —
No. of
No. of No. of electors
Constituencies. electors, members, per member.
Metropolitan .. .. 104,959 20 Approx. 5248
Urban (Ballarat,
Bendigo and Geelong) 20,792 5 ~ 4158
Country.. .. .. 188,158 40 ~ 3454
263,909 65 „ 4060
The scandalous fact that one man speaks for 5248
electors in the metropolis and that another
babbles for only 3454 in the country will be better
appreciated by this small table, showing the
representation as it should be as near as possible
in proportion to the number of electors
No. of
No. of No. of electors
Constituencies. electors, members, per member.
Metropolitan .. .. 104,959 26 Approx. 4036
Urban 20,792 5 ~ 4158
Country'.. .. •• 138,158 34 ~ 4063
263,909 65 „ 4060
Which shows that the country has beaten the
metropolis for six seats, and is thus six seats over-
represented. So that, in addition to loafing on
the city taxpayer for its bridges, roads, etc., the
country has collared from him six members to
which it is not entitled. Under the circumstances,
it seems really strange that it has left him any
representation at all.
Farmer-Senator Russell, of S.A., makes the
community tired with his enthusiasm about the
advantages of a Yassberra capital because of its
allegedly fine soil—though as Russell doesn’t
know yet whereabouts, within a good many miles,
the city will be, even his bucolic raptures may be
premature. Cows and turnips aren’t the only quali-
fications of a city which is to be unique in the
world’s history, inasmuch as it will be the only city
on earth which is the capital of a whole continent.
If the Australian metropolis is to be the success
it should be, it will presently get far beyond the
mere heifer and mangel-wurzel stage. The only
blot on the design of Melbourne are the “Little”
streets —Flinders, Collins, Bourke, Lonsdale, and
the like. They were narrowed down because, in
the view of a person with the same fine instinct
for cattle which distinguishes Senator Russell,
the only possible use for these back ways would be
to admit the settlers’ cows to the settlers’ hinder
premises. It is a mistake to put cow and
turnip people on to the creation of new cities.
Their outlook is too narrow. If Constantine the
Great had been a dairyman instead of a statesman
he wouldn’t have put Constantinople where he
did; he would have looked for some inland site
where the feed was better, and where there was
no Bosphorus for the cows to fall into.
♦
Now that Bent’s land transactions have been
stirred up, the purchase of the Thornbury brick
land begins to look interesting. Bent bought
this land for £IOO per acre from the Commercial
Bank (he is said to have been one of a shindykit
that held it before the Bank acquired it); and
then he spent about £IOOO in buying brickmaking
machinery. He thus bluffed the Brick Combine
into reducing the price of bricks from 40s. to 38s.
per 1000 for nearly two years; but then, as the
State brickworks were never started, the price
went back to the old figure and stays there.
Bent thus certainly advantaged the public by
something like £SOO or possibly even £IOOO.
But he might have done a great deal more, and
made the benefit permanent; for, when Bent
refused to do anything with the land and works,
at least two private individuals offered to lease
the property, pay standard wages, and sell bricks
for 30s. per 1000. Somebody had, however,
apparently breathed something in Bent’s cup-
like ear; wherefore Bent’s only reply was that
he was going to hand the property over to the
Closer Settlement Board. Evidently he didn’t;
anyway, nothing has been done with the land,
which is still idle. Now why did Bent buy that
land for the State ? To make bricks ? Then why
didn’t he make them, or even allow other people
to make them ?
Dr. Richard Wallace appears for the
defence: —
Re a paragraph of your issue of November 26. I
ask vour permission to lay before your readers the
salient features of the much-debated case of Grimson
v. Freeman and Wallace. It has already, I trust, been
made manifest enough that, so far from having treated
Grimson, the plaintiff, I did not even know of his ex-
istence until I received his writ for £IOOO, because in
August, 1906, I severed my connection with the Freeman
and Wallace Institute, and I never afterwards darkened
its doors until this writ was served on me. I held no
communication whatever with Freeman, and was in per-
fect ignorance of anything which took place for over two
years at the Institute. Grimson, it now appears,
was treated by a Dr. Samuel Lane Wallace. In
August, 1906, when I quitted Freeman, I had a
deed prepared dissociating me absolutely from the
Freeman and Wallace Institute, and stipulating that in
all newspapers bearing my name throughout the Com-
monwealth were to be withdrawn in fourteen days from
the date of deed, and after the expiration of three months
from date of agreement the name of Dr. Richard Wallace
was to be deleted from all printed matter connected with
the Freeman and Wallace Institute. My instructions
were not carried out, but a provision was inserted to the
effect that Freeman was at liberty to use the name of Dr.
Richard Wallace “ until his present stock of printed matter
was exhausted.” The presence of this clause was ruinous
to me at the trial, as the fact that my name was signed to
the deed precluded mv counsel from putting me in the
witness box. The Judge asked, “ Why did not Dr. Richard
Wallace sav that he had ceased to be a partner?” Asa
matter of fact, 1 was not a partner, so how could I state
that I had ceased to be one ? Well, a verdict for £450 was
given against me, which, with Costs up to date, including
those of Bankruptcy, into which I have been driven, lets
me in for £BOO or £9OO.
Again, you say “ While he (Dr. Richard Wallace) was
supposed to be curing the suffering young man in ‘ his labo-
ratories ’ in one part of Sydney, he was really trying to lend
the young man £1 on personal security in a frowsy little
office in another part of it.” Please allow me to say
emphatically that I did not lend on personal security, and
that I never lent £1 in any case. The terms upon which
I lent were advertised in all the daily papers. Again, I
was not struggling with a little money-lending business,
as you state. I had nearly £IOOO in what was then
a successful enterprise, and I had considerably more
than another £IOOO to call upon. “As to a
frowsy little office,” the furniture and fittings
of said office cost me £4O, and everybody who transacted
business with me complimented me on the up-to-date look
of my surroundings. It is surely enough that lam
absolutely ruined, as the Official Assignee has disposed of
mv house, my land, and my financial business, leaving
me absolutely penniless. I shall conclude by quoting a
remark made to my wife, by Mr. Moriarty, counsel for
the Official Assignee : “ Mrs. Wallace, we know that your
husband is the victim, and we hope to make the person,
properly responsible for your husband’s trouble, bear the
expense of the verdict and Costs.”
If the Australian capital is ever planted at
Yassberra, one man who will wish he were dead
will be David Hall, member for Werriwee. In
fact, he probably will be dead—politically. With
900 square miles hacked out of Werriwee there
will have to be a re-arrangement, and David
Hall’s constituency will probably be cut up and dis-
sipated, and David is likely to be an unemployed
legislator. Things are not always what they
seem. In a general way : (1) The thicker the
population the smaller the constituency; (2) the
smaller the constituency the more serious the hole
that will be made in it by the excision of a Federal
territory ; (3) the more serious the hole the greater
the probability that the constituency will vanish
and the local member have to go and hustle for a
crust amid new surroundings.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEE *>«!>* “**
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “ The Sign of the Crosr..”
Criterion “ The Gayest of the Gay.”
D / “Robinson Crusoe" (matinee),
ALACE 1“ The Woman Pays.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Princess’s “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
King’s “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
Bijou “The Unwritten Law.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Wirtii’s Park .... The Riding Horse, etc., etc.
Julius Knight is no whit less effective as
Marcus than he was a decade ago. He possesses
most of the assets that make for success in a part
of this class. He is a master of “ make-up” and
of costuming. He has the rhythmic diction and
the fine, resonant voice that playgoers look for in
a Roman dignitary ; and a brow that fairly
clamors for the Olympian wreath. In the low-
necked suiting of the period he contrives to look
as though he had just stepped off the “heads”
side of a Pompeiian coin. These advantages, in
all likelihood, more than the acting he puts into
the r6le, cause his Marcus to live in the affections
of the populace in the astonishing way it does.
Herbert Leigh plays Nero in a nose grotesquely
arched and palpably false—the sort of
deformity the Jew usurer of melodrama
is wont to plaster on his countenance. And he
represents the erring potentate as an old man.
Wherefore does he do these things ? It is known
that the youthful Enobarbus was a physically un-
afflicted, not to say a comely lad ; and he was
still in the twenties when his Christian-burning
feats were at their height. Miss Beatrice Day
plays Mercia sweetly and convincingly. Harry
Plimmer (Tigellinus), Eardley Turner (Glabrio)
and Leslie Victor (Philodemus) act with distinc-
tion ; and Miss Wilson (Berenis), Miss Gleeson
(Steplianus), Miss Guildford Quinn (Dacia), and
Miss Preston (Ancaria) all do good work.
** # *
These nights there is no vast expanse of
boiled shirt and alabaster neck at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney); in the 12th week of the season the
Merry Widow’s Marsovian millions are being
pursued for the special behoof of Bill who is
down from the country, and Bill’s suburban
cousins. ThelatterhaveheldofftheWidowhitherto
out of consideration for Bfll, who would be down
at Christmas and would be sure to want to go.
Besides, Bill would pay. After three months of
them, the few jokes of the Widow don’t seem any
fresher ; in fact, the door-knob which Gouriet's
hen lays after eating the brass filings is nearly due
for re-lacquering If the old fowl could only be fed
on something that would help her to lay a new
joke it would be a blessed relief to the orchestra.
It doesn’t come so hard on the princes and other
polite young persons who show you your seat if
you don’t know it; for they’ve been changed
since the season started. Evidently, after the
67th time of laughing at it (as per contract), the
door-knob choked them.
** * *
Maggie Moore and H. R. Roberts remove
that seasoned drama, “Struck Oil,” from the
stage of Sydney Palace, about 11 p.m. on Christ-
mas Eve, some four hours before the cherished in-
fant arises to lay waste the slumbers of the
hoqsehold with the wail of his tin trumpet. A
period of 15 hours will then elapse in the usual
manner, and on Boxing Day, at 2 p.m., Edwin
Geach will present our old beachcombing friend,
“R. Crusoe,” tp the newer generation. Crusoe
will sail back to Juan Fernandez for his evening
meal, and at 8 p.m. or thereabouts the uncom-
fortable assertion that “ The Woman Pays,” will
be made for the first time and with tremendous
emphasis. The Palace, with its double bill,
threatens to be a busy place for some time to
come.
** * *
The Sydney Liedertafel came out bravely
for its Christmas concert last week, and drew an
unusually crowded house. Two big choruses, with
orchestra by Max Bruch, gave the society scope
for real good work, and the performance was quite
exhilarating. “The Romans’ Song of Iriumph
and “The Vintagers and Boatmen” are the
titles. Instead of time-honored “Nazareth,”
two Mendelssohn’s choruses gave a chance
for the melody of “Hark, the Herald Angels
Sing,” to creep out. Ernestine Louat, a pleasant
soprano, and baritone Andrew Black were in
glorious form.
#* # *
Ada Crossley will bloom forth in one
single concert at Sydney Town Hall on Christmas
night. John Harrison is back to conquer the
crowd, and Percy Grainger, Leon Sametini and
company are a strong enough company to justify
J. Edward Sykes in his plucky capture of the
Town Hall at a rental closely approaching £lOO.
*
As rain to parched soil, or iced alcoholic
stimulus to parched humanity, will come to many
a local citizen the announcement that on Saturday
night next Bilanderson’s Dramatic Co. proposes
to open at Sydney Criterion in a hitherto unex-
ploited blood-play— unexploited in Sydney, that
is. “The Gayest of the Gay” it is called.
Eugenie Duggan will lead, and she will be fol-
lowed by a band of skilled gore-spillers, beside
any one of whom a P. and O. Asiatic would, as a
spreader or undammer of the vital stream, appear
a crassly incompetent amateur.
X % *
Sydney Tivoli this week loses the musical
Latonas and the electrical Marconis, who fly from
the footlights just when Christmas is due to rush
on and stun humanity with a leaden plum pud-
ding. J. W. Rickaby, who is really a stage
humorist, has unhappily taken to singing a rather
ordinary love ditty at the end of his turn ; where-
fore his numerous admirers are filled with amaze-
ment, and ejaculate “Blimy !” in a disappointed
manner. Rickaby would do better to cut out the
sentimental item and replace the policeman song.
A number of new people are programmed for the
end of this week, and the “Tiv.” will then pro-
ceed to rake in the numerous Christmas shilling
faster than ever.
** * *
With both of Adelaide’s chief theatres
closed for the present, there has been a good hear-
ing for the leading amateur people—.the Append-
reenas. They gave a careful rendering—perhaps
rather too careful—of the robust Parisian humors
of “Dr. Bill,” the gentleman who is locked up in
a bathroom with his mother-in-law, the key being
concealed down the back of somebody else who
has fainted. On the Glenelg beach some Pierrots
have built themselves a house. Miss Ruby Edgar
(late of the Merrymakers’ co.) is with them, also
Bert Barton. In the city, all is Moving Picture at
present. The old Cyelorama, afterwards an ice-
rink (the first in Australia), has given up skating
for the winter, and joined the crowd of film-fakirs.
** * *
“Jack and Jill,” the Williamson panto,
that broke out at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne),
proved to be 3| crowded hours of glorious uproar
and splendid riot. Other pantos, have been
doomed to popularity on account of their varied
attractions, and “Mother Goose’’ran all round
the Commonwealth for a year or more ; but none
were so fully charged with eccentricity and scenic
force as this latest production. “Jack and Jill ”
never flags or drags. One could have wished, on
the first night, that the orchestra would moderate
its transports when the accompaniment was
too loud; nevertheless the feast of frivol
and flow of tumult seemed well worth a
headache next morning, and a panto, headache,
anyway, is no worse than the after-effects of a
problem-play, a flickergraph or a political debate.
Portions of plot and fragments of nursery fable
are dotted amidst the confection like bits of white
fat in a Teutonic sausage, but for the most part
the entertainment is a mixture of irrelevancies
ranging from topical ditties to birds and beasts
of the jim-jam species. A giant rooster is a
peculiarly special feature. There are so many
special features that the ordinary ones get lost,
sight of in the crowd, and none of them appeared
superfluousonSaturday, except, perhaps, asongand
chorus concerning a bogey man. With hardly an
exception, the ordinary items have humor in them,
whilst the poetic ballets and the prose processions
of pleasing Australian girl are positively beautiful,
not to say lovely. Even Solomon in all his
Marrick ville tweed suit was not arrayed like some
of these, otherwise he would have caught cold in
the joints. No doubt the color scheme in every
tableau is good, and in some cases better.
Artist W. R. Coleman and his lieutenant, George
Upward, have done their duty by this costly
show, together with Gerard Coventry, the stage-
manager, and Jennie Brenan, the ballet mistress.
They may expect their reward in that glittering
Hereafter where fairies are immortal and bad
language is never heard behind the scenes.
Of course, the panto, owes much of its
success to the leading character performers, as
well as to the ballets, the animal impersonators,
and the gorgeous surroundings. Miss Stella
Gastelle, as the principal boy, is full of brightness
and animation, and it is she who seems to rush
the performance off the mark, and keep it going
for all it is worth. Bert Gilbert is always droll
because he gets no chance to over-elaborate his
jokes, and he has a clever accomplice in J. M.
Campbell, formerly of “ The Merry-Makers,” wli®
plays the matron or the doting widow. Harry
Shine happens occasionally in the disguise of a
scarecrow, whose lungs and liver are made of
straw. Miss Nance Maher distinguishes herself
as a singing fairy ; and Fanny Dango, Victor
Loydall, and Stella Selbourne have more or less to
do in the foreground.
* * # -*
The panto, at Melbourne Royal presents
the aged narrative of “Cinderejla” in a more
shapely and reasonable form than it has previously
taken within the memory of persons who are no
longer as young as they were. Something of the
soul of romance has been left in it by the librettist.
The main facts of the fairy tale are decently
clothed in shreds and patches of their original
human interest, and soft airs of reality fan the
cheek of wild extravaganza as she capers on her
way. Sufficiently gorgeous in the spectacular
appointments and sufficiently pantomimic in
character, this up-to-date revival of “Cinderella”
strikes one as being very well adapted to the
“Hook of Holland” company, which fills ten or
more of the parts. When the dialogue has been
somewhat condensed and the action quickened by
practice, the show at the Royal should fully
explain why it was a pantomime instead of a
musical comedy. Melbourne didn’t ask for pan-
tomime in two places, therefore the rival produc-
tions here and at Her Majesty’s are expected to
CONCERNING A MONEY-SPINNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On Saturday at 8 o’clock p.m.
The Sydney Royal “ drop ” moved briskly up
And showed the same old “ Street in Rome.”
The crowd
Paced in its gaudy robes beneath the “lime,”
As it has paced since most of us were young.
And shortly, ’mid a surge of cheers, strode on
Julius, stalwart, stern-browed, beautiful.
And now each honest face “in front” glows
bright
With undiluted joy. Parsons are seen
To right and left, who cheer—-and then crouch back
In shamed wise, fearing the ribald jeer
That aye greets men of God who come within
The purview of those “ gods ” that visit plays.
And here an aghd chapel-goer bangs
His gamp upon the floor, and there a maid
Lets go her fellow Sabbath-scholar’s hand,
And her own palms concusses frenziedly,
Sighing the while, “ The Darling / ” “ Oh! How
sweet! ”
And other terms expressive of Great Love.
The howls of Stephanus do not offend
This audience —in fact it likes them. It
Is there for thrills. The vice of Berenis
Renders it virtuously pitiful.
Glabrio’s vinous pranks appeal to it
As Prohibition object-lessons. All
The horrid features of bad, bad Old Rome—
The nakedness, the anti-Christian vim,
The flowing bowls and so forth—give it cheer.
It thinks of the pure suburb where it lives ;
And, gazing on its Pledge (fresh signed), and
clothes
(Ample, if somewhat stuffy), it feels good.
Which in a measure, possibly, explains
“ The Sign’s ” perennial success. No show
E’er failed that (boomed by clerics as “refined ”)
A feast of moral uplift and bare limbs combined.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
WATERY EYES
Are one of the signs of influenza. Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery affords immediate relief. Give it a trial.
Guaranteed in all cases of chest and bronchial com-
plaints. Obtainable everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Australians will note with interest the new
industry that is likely to spring up as a result of the
discovery of a Textile Fibre in Spencer Gulf, South Aus-
tralia, and which bids fair, in union with low-grade wools,
to produce a material which, owing to its non-inflamma-
bility, will compete with the flannelettes that have for so
long been a menace to every household. Also, due to its
non-conductivity, it retains the warmth which cotton
reflects, as proved by the blankets and flannels already
manufactured. It has further properties for stuffing and
upholstery purposes, competing successfully with flock
and kapok. Attention is drawn to the prospectus of the
Textile Fibre Company appearing on page 33.*
account for their simultaneous appearance. And
seemingly the difference between them is the
apology that “Cinderella” has to offer. Offered
in a handsome manner, with touches of graceful
sentiment and a capital musical accompaniment,
the apology is accepted without demur. Never-
theless the habit of two pantomimes at once
deserves discouragement. It mustn’t be allowed
to grow.
* * ■» »
The matter at the Royal is introduced to
a bevy of youngsters by a sweetly-spoken Fairy
godmother (Miss Delaney) clothed in gauzy
material and a yard or two of auburn hair. The
course of true story runs smooth through the first
act, which terminates in a sort of transformation
scene, with an electric-lighted coach and four
ponies in the centre thereof. Cromwell is the im-
pecunious baron of tradition, and Edwin Brett is
his second wife—a plump suburban shemale, who
strikes the happy medium between a haughty
mayoress and a common or garden washerlady.
Her daughters by a former marriage are Miss
Jennie Opie and Miss Orford, and whereas the
heroine’s step-sisters have hitherto been ugly
ducklings, these are alarming only as regards their
toilettes. Tom Payne is the boy-in-buttons at-
tached to the baron’s household; Miss Essie Perrin
hovers around in a dancing capacity; and the
beauteous daughter-of-all-work, who brings a
prince into the family, is Miss Ruth Lincoln.
The contrasts are not too violent. Dandini, the
valet to the visiting royalty, is quite soberly im-
personated by Bottomley, the baritone, whilst a
new lady from America (Miss Meredith Meredro)
makes a divinely tall and elegant Prince. She
has all the necessary qualifications for a principal
boy, including two legs of unimpeachable contour.
A dimpled ingratiating potentate is Miss Mere-
dro, and her singing voice holds its own in this
harmonious company. All things considered,
“ Cinderella ” seems good for many nights and a
lot of matinees. The dresses are effective, Phil
Goatcher, Vaughan and others have put in some
pretty scenery, and the artistic restraint of the
performance is soothing to the jaded feelings of
tha present commentator.
* #
“ When Knights Were Bold,” prologued
by “That Brute Simmons,” is finishing its last
nights at Melbourne Bijou. Frank Thornton
hasn’t been doing terrific business'with the show,
though the simple egregiousness of his de Vere is
entitled to more substantial recognition. De Vere
is just the sort of purposeless and callow character
that bounds with a cranky dan at some of Mel-
bourne’s more popular resorts on any warm Sun-
day, though, to be sure, no local could hope to
emulate the exceeding culture of his bleat or his
subtle aristocratic form. However, to-night
(Thursday) he packs up his tin armor and hoary
sundries, and, resting over the goose of to-
morrow, will resume his farewell at the Princess’s
on Boxing night with yet another revival of
“ Charley’s Aunt.”
** * *
Meanwhile, afc Melbourne Bijou, “The
Unwritten Law,” alleged to be an accurate history
of the Thaw outrage in the U.S.A., is in prepara-
tion, also for Boxing Night. In the original
trouble, the sensation de luxe was a lovely pink
girl in a pie. In the present copy thereof, a lovely
pink girl in a pie will be eagerly looked for. It
would hit Melbourne hard as an entrhe without a
name, and also without address.
** * *
Afc Melbourne Olympia and afc Wirth’s
Park next door, the attractions are of the usual
grandeur, and continue insidiously to draw mobs
of people over Princes Bridge between 7 and 18
p.m. At the former, a new series of pictures,
that included “Continental Navy Manoeuvres”
and the “Tsar of Bulgaria,” was flickered upon
the bedding last Saturday night. At the latter,
and on the same evening, Mounierand Franz per-
mitted a motor car containing six persons to mote
over their reclining bodies. And, by the way,
the Town Hall is to be utilised for two Christmas
entertainments of widely divergent interest. On
Christmas Night the Philharmonic Society will per-
form “ The Messiah,” and on Saturday (January 2)
Allan Hamilton is to present the stous’ning of
Johnson by Burns, or of Burns by Johnson, as the
stoush may be, on a cinematograph screen.
*• * % *
At the King’s (Melbourne) the blood-
stained fiction of “The Assassin ” was to conclude
its revival on Wednesday night, after which the
Andersonian company will lapse into a brief
festive season prior to a grand production of
Uncle Tom and his Cabin on Boxing Night. To
be more precise, the venerable nigger and his
wooden domicile will come to light on Boxing
afternoon, and the company will be less
orthodoxly Andersonian than usual. For instance,
Ernest Fitts is to raise his impressive voice in
song and prayer as Uncle Thomas, Baby Watson
will be little Eva, and two or three other principal
members of a small cast will be new to the
theatre. Apart from the principals, an army of
choristers, eakewalkers and “revellers” with
blackened faces will assist in brightening the Ole
Plantation Home.
** * *
After pouring strange names into its menu
for the past two or three weeks, Melbourne Opera
House will, presumably, take a spell, and enable
The Bulletin to recuperate. For longer than
this paper cares to remember, it has been relent-
lessly forced to consider a host of fresh faces, some
not so fresh kilts, dogs, implements and instru-
ments, and some really indisputable clothes.
After much consideration one may cheerfully
admit that Amalia and Leonora, the Macgregors,
the Dogs, and Cristofolo are some compensation
for the recent arrival of two misguided coOn
melodists. Also La Danse de Rubans—a sym-
bolic atonement by Rickards’ ethereal ballerinas
—is still firmly planted in the First Part. Up to
now, The Bulletin has ignored La Danse de R.,
as its exacting gaiety and stern reality seemed to
belong not to Melbourne, but to Geelong.
From the day when N. S. Wales first had
a Forestry Department, down to the end of its
last financial year, all that the State has got out
of its fine forests of cedar and matchless hard-
wood and other timber, is £579,717; and of that
all but £154,796 has gone in expenses. In the
balance against that trifle millions of millions of
feet of timber have been swept away, a little of it
to market but most of it to ashes; last year alone,
for instance, the Department kept track of
650,000,000 super, feet that went to market, and
there was probably as much more that was de-
stroyed. If N. S. Wales doesn’t get down to
husks it will have a lot more luck than the other
young ass mentioned in Luke xv. 11.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Adelaide”: It is always interesting-to look for evi-
dence of the time and place of first issue in a play ; and
how lovingly performers cling to the moss-grown. “ The
Belle of Mayfair ” was produced when London was half full
of Frenchmen, and “ Entente Cordiale ” holds good as a
rattling chorus ; but when Miss Ruth Lincoln is dis-
covered to be singing an encore verse of “ Bond Street”
in French, the thing has an effect as of last week’s news-
paper. Brett, by the way, says a meaningless thing
about his front door, which you pull to open and push to
shut; “we call it the push and the pull.” (Loud silence.)
Surely it was intended to be “ We call it the Old Pull and
Push.” Does Mr. Brett imagine that we don’t know the
Bull and Bush in Australia ?
“ J.S.” : Edward Reeves, who recited Dickens’ “Christ-
mas Carol ” at the Masonic Hall, Melbourne, on Friday
night last, is by no means entrancing, and is often not
even interesting. True, he has most of the qualities that
pass for talent in elocution, but, in the lengthy work to
which he is addicted, he at times loses his grip, and drifts
into indifferent and almost colorless declamation. Also,
he selected a yarn whereof the humor and pathos, when
poured forth with garrulous unction, seem thin and
puerile. The weighty English gusto with which Dickens
describes the pleasures of a solemn and portentous Christ-
mas feed is imitated by Reeves with devoted sincerity.
Gambolling among the phrases of gastronomic descrip-
tion ; dwelling with tender cooings upon England’s noble
pudding; and almost choked by fat, oleaginous
adjectives, Reeves appears to halt between mild frenzy
and asphyxiation—or else asparagus. Then, indeed, he
has the characteristics of a good showman, but, at other
times, listening to him is something in the nature of a
penance, though due respect must be paid to his fine feat
of memory.
“ J.D.”: Observing Marcus Superbus at Sydney Theatre
Royal last Saturday night what time he decided to offer
himself up publicly as a course at the lions’ dinner party,
it was borne in on me that he recalled someone I ligd
met'recently. Who? Suddenly it flashed upon me.
Of course. Joe Grim, the iron pug from Philadelphia
((J.S. A.). Both theattitudes, and the attitude towards life,
of the Old Roman are those that the modern Roman
would have exploited had he been born a sufficient
number of centuries earlier. Grim has for years pasc been
voluntarily throwing himself to the lions of the only arena
we have these squeamish times. It is no fault of his that
he hasn’t been eaten up. It has been Joseph’s custom
since he was quite a lad to stand in the public eye in a
Superbus-like pose for as long as possible before submit-
ting himself to be chopped ; and while so doing to orate
concerning the coming repast. Those few splendid
moments were all the change worth mentioning that he
ever got out of his place of honor on the menu. Verily, Joe
would have made an ideal convert to early Christianity.
None would have railed against informers, lEmperors,
Coliseum-frequenters and the like more spiritedly than
he ; none would have chaffed the Bestiarii with a finer
air; and, finally, when the dinner gong went, he would
have blunted and ruined the Nubian lion’s teeth in all
likelihood, and thus been enabled to do his act all over
again at the next Games.
“ Sceneshifter ” anent a classic' story : Tree’s recent
production of “Faust” is the third version London has
seen in the last 50 years. Chatterton produced “Faust ”
at Drury Lane in 1866, and Irving at the Lyceum in the
’eighties. It was a money-maker with both managers,
and was frequently revived. Samuel Phelps, then at the
height of his glory, took the rdle of Mephistopheles in the
Chatterton verson, and his son Edmund was Faust. Mar-
guerite was played by Mrs. Hermann Vezin. Valentine
was made a singing r6le—not a baritone, as in Gounod’s
opera, but a tenor. W. H. Harrison, famous in his day in
connection with the Harrison-Pyne Opera Co., and the
original Thaddeus in Balfe’s “ Bohemian Girl,” essayed
this r6le, and he had a fine song in “ The Fairest Girl may
have a Scornful Eye,” borrowed from Weber’s opera
“ Euryanthe.” Bayle Bernard, a London pressman, was
responsible for the “book,” and he made a big feature of
“ The Walpurgis Night on the Brocken,” but he “cut”
the cellar scene and the witch’s kitchen. The latter
scene was incorporated later on in Irving’s version, which
was from the pen of melodramatist W. H. Wills. Irving
had George Alexander as his Faust. Ellen Terry made an
incomparable Margaret. Barrels of money were emptied
in connection with the mounting, and old Nuremberg
seemed to live again on the Lyceum stage. Tree’s edition
(it is by Comyns Carr and poet Stephen Phillips) is in four
acts, and seems to pretty well follow the conventional
story. A departure is in the prologue, programmed as
“Betwixt Earth and Heaven,” wherein visions of Cleo-
patra, Helen of Troy, Messalina, and other naughty his-
torical or unhistorical ladies appear during the Brocken
scene. Marie Lohr, S. W. Anson, and Madge Titheradge
are in the cast.
“ Harrison O.” : Since the advent of Maud Allan, who
clothes herself mostly in a smile and a few heads, the in-
habitants of the other side have been simply trampled
under the twinkling feet of charming bare-footed (and,
the Puritans allege, bare-faced) dancing girls. They
mostly call themselves Salome, and they are all suffi-
ciently “ nood ” to bring deep blushes to a Maoriland
policeman. In London at present Maud Allan and Vitus
St. Denis and Artemis Calonna are all dancing d la
Milo. In America every music hall, from the Alhambra
and Hammerstein’s Roof Garden down to the little third
and fourth-rate variety theatres, has a Salome tart of its
own somewhere about the premises ; no Yankee vaude-
ville show is considered complete without one, any more
than Rickards’ would be without a rag-time melody or
the person who “ will now endeavor, with your kind per-
mission, to give a few imatations of artists I have seen
and heard.” Hilda Caroli, Vera Olcott, La Sylphe, Eva
Tanguay, Lotta Faust, and La Belle Zola are ’only a few
of a great army of damsels who find bare dancing pro-
fitable in Uncle Ham’s land at the present time. In Hing-
land J. Bull starts to make excuses ; he calls it “classical
dancing,” and says that it is “beautiful” and “inspir-
ing,” and Bull’s press devotes columns to criticising its
“feeling,” “chasteness,” “influence,” “suggestion,”
and so forth. If a man enjoys gazing at slightly-clad
girls, let him do so and shut up, but your smug Briton
will never admit that it is the lack of clothing which
attracts him —it is always something higher.
“Tiki”: The Australasian society for the encourage-
ment of the locally-built opera is going to be responsible
for a lot in Maoriland. There was a tendency in that
direction before the society crystallised ; but the symp-
toms grow more alarming, and every tenth person one
meets has in his eye a wild, operatic look. The first local
production of the kind was the Hill-Birch opera, “A
Moorish Maid,” which the Stevenson co. annexed. Then
arrived “ The Lady Typist,” entirely the work of T.
Humphreys, of Auckland ; followed by the society’s first
purchase, “ The Tea Girl,” by the same composer. She
proved to be rather a tame young person, and passed
without sensation into the Pollard repertoire, where she
is reported to be improving. Now a Humphreys-Birch
opera, founded on a Peruvian legend, and called “The
Golden Wedge,” is heralded as a great and marvellous
work. It also goes Pollardwards. There’s also a musical
comedy by T. Humphreys and Miss Peacocke, of Auck-
land, reported to be off in the same direction. It is called
“Sixes and Sevens,” and when staged here last week
proved a rather uninteresting effort, redeemed consider-
ably by bright music and good acting. Finally, we are
promised a Maori grand opera by Alfred Hill and J.
Cowan, of Wellington. A Hill-Oowan combination should
do something worth while in the wide field of Maori
legend. This list, with the Hill-Adams “Hinemoa” and
a Hill-Anderson cantata, “Tura and the Fairies,” about
completes the list of local efforts to date. But the results
of the Australasian society’s competition for this year are
not yet announced, and meanwhile the opera-builder
builds feverishly.
A MAN AND A BROTHER.
Johnson has been giving the inhabitants of La Perouse
and Botany a treat by scorching vigorously about those
parts in his car.
JACKY JACKY (of La Perouse): “ That pfeller
puts on heap plurry side, my wurrd! What
tribe that pfeller belonga?”
“Skull”: I witnessed the shipment of an actress. Her
carriage drew up at some little distance along the wharf,
which was lined with her adoring people. There was no-
P revenb the carriage drawing up abreast the
a, *n way ’ ex Ji ( ;P tln 8' the artists natural craving for a
j' 61 ' 6 Was n ° orc^,f i l' As * he act Jess
stepped from her carnage, two of the largest he-members
of her co. sprang forward, and the lady took an arm of
and ’smmnifTlftHe" l!'™! L ‘‘mpuifg, «oh so pitiful y,
n thß ,n, , l! Up0 I! f th ® sympathetic
“ At the s ang\\aj she whispered to the larger pro.,
and the gallant fellow promptly picked her up in his
arms and sprang up the inclined plane with his beautiful
90 a " lid | he , Ch f CerS H f the common people. We were
afloat 20 minutes before the appealing limp had entirely
facf Ti' e , WaU smile h ad quite fled the
8 faC6 ' lL WaS a wlnnln£r dls P lay of art for
“Topog”: Memories of Musgrove’s sumptuous revival
ol As You Like It at the Sydney Royal in 1903, were
revived by the warblers at the Cri. in the production of
“ The Lily of Killarney.” Two of the fine “ front ” cloths,
painted by Hawes Craven for the pastoral comedy, were
resurrected to illustrate Benedict’s work. The exterior
of Eily s cottage is the Arden Forest scene in which, five
years ago, old Adam evinced a strong desire to lie down
and die, until cheered on by Orlando. The exterior of
Myles’cottage was Scene 2, Act 2 of Mussy’s production,
and shows the home of good old Adam, where “ from
seventeen years till now almost four score,” the old joker
lived, until he went off with Orlando to Arden. A Melb.
daily waxed eloquent the other week over these scenes,
and regretted that the management did not bill the
artist’s name. But it didn’t want to.
The moral slump of the London music-hall continues.
Harry Fragson, the enormously-paid Ariglo-Parisian
comedian, is allowed to sing at the Tivoli a son«- about
taking a girl out to lunch and dinner, to be home at nine
—the final suggestion being to include breakfast and
make it 9 a.m. Meanwhile, the “ Morality Department ’’
in New York has got busy with the imported posters of
the London Gaiety Co., and has pasted strips of paper
over the too-exuberant upper sections of some of the
ladies. Everybody knows that section. Legend has it
that once, on a P. and O. steamer, it broke loose or poured
oyer in the case of an evening dress dame who was cut
distinctly low, and that the officer alongside, with great
presence of mind, pushed the exuberance back into place
with a soup spoon.
“ Kodak ” : I find the stage ancient too decrepit. A cer-
tain amount of feebleness, of coarse, is necessary, but
the average player of old-man parts totters, wheezes,
blinks and squeaks till the character he is sustaining be-
comes a mere tiresome bundle of whiskers and rags. I
hate to see an old man hobble on to the stage and sit
down on the property log in front of the hut. I know
that he’s going to wheeze and giggle and mumble an old
clay pipe ; also that he is going to indulge in a fiendishly
k ,T IOt ; e ° f ' Vh '° h is ’ ‘) A J I ; them was
th days! I hate the stajre ancient; I hate his had
grammar and his stagger, and I am infuriated by his dia-
bolical slowness. Some night I will rise up and throw a
brick at him. I would have done so before but for the
fact that I rarely take a brick with me to the theatre.
A Mystery Act has been baffling Londoners of late,
beside which the darkest magic of the Maskelyne and
Devant combine looks, practically speaking, piebald. It
is shown at the Alhambra Theatre by a Mrs. Tomson, of
America. The act is a new version of the time-worn
cabinet puzzle. The carptnter of whatever theatre the
lady shows at builds a cabinet. He puts it together in
full view of the audience, to guard against deception.
Then the structure and Mrs. Tomson are examined care-
fully by a committee of females taken at random from
the audience. When they are all satisfied that the thing
is solid, empty and apertureless, and that Mrs. Tomson of
America has nothing but the ordinary gauds of femininity
about her, the lady climbs inside and is nailed up. She
is released after a while, and emerges with birds, rabbits,
cats and flowers all over her, as it were, and in a com-
pletely different costume from that which she wore before
being coffined. It is the only act of the sort that the
weedy lad in the stalls is not able to resolve on sight for
the benefit of the lady friend at his side. All the leading
“ mystery ” exposers have tried their hands on the
Tomson deception, and retired flummoxed.
“Busk”: Scribner's Magazine, just to hand, has a
striking article on Richard Mansfield. The hardships he
encountered were, to a great extent, due to his over-
powering and Napoleonic confidence in his own future
greatness. He firmly believed in the principle that the
good is the enemy of the best. So he dashed the cup
from his lips because it was not good enough. His mother
was Mrs. Rudersdorff, a well-known operatic prima donna;
his father was an Englishman. He went from America to
London and under-
went incredible ex-
periences. Securing
an engagement with
the German Reeds,
he fainted at the
piano through hung-
er, and was dis-
missed, A year’s
travel as Sir Joseph
Porter, in “H.M.S.
Pinafore,” put him
somewhat on his
legs. He was the
original Major-
General Stanley, in
“The Pirates,” at a
copyright perform-
ance. He invented
the patter song im-
promptu there, and
it was afterwards
embodied in the
score. Yet Gilbert
set his face against
Mansfield, as one
who would not stick
to the prescribed
business. Mansfield
went to America.
More hardships.
Made a hit in Phila-
delphia as the ori-
ginal Lord Chancel-
lor there, in “ lo-
lanthe,” a perform,
ance that was on a
par with Bob
Brough’s. Mansfield
sprained his ankle
badly on the third
night. Then he ewnt
to New York, on
pure spec. He just
had a faint memory
of Manager A. 1).
Palmer, of the Union
Square Theatre,
having told hi m
there might be some
possible chance in
the future. They
were rehearsing “ A
Parisian Romance,”
with Eleanor Carey
as leading woman,
and De Belleville as
the Bellew of the
establishment. This
was in 1883. Both Miss
Carey and De Belleville had
been familiar in Australia. Mans-
field’s ankle was so badly sprained that
he would infallibly have been out of it hail
he not made a pretence of agility, in great pain, before
manager Palmer. He was engaged for a little part—
luckily a sitting-down part—and had a chance to get
well. It was a one-man play, the man being Baron de
Chevrial, an old rou6 who fell 'dead at a grand supper
given to a herd of actresses. Stoddart, the best actor,
was cast for it, and quailed before it. He was seized
with a downright terror. In the end he threw it up,
sa3'ing “Mansfield is the man.” So Mansfield got it.
Then comes the triumph, the most notable burst forth
of a new great actor ever known on the American
stage. One reads of it with a share in the exultation,
as with Irving in “The Bells.” Irving would have
missed that if Bateman could have succeeded in replac-
ing him with George Rignold.
Quite the most popular feature at Melbourne Gaiety is
the weekly trial matinde, where aspirants for music-hall
fame are trotted out. Generally a large crowd turns up
to these events, for they are certainly funnier than the
legitimate show. The trial habit is spreading. Harry
Rickards is now not above sandwiching an unannounced
trial turn into his bill at the Opera House. On one or
two occasions lately, an unpublished turn has been in-
cluded in the show, just to see how the audience would
take it. That is a radical change for the House of
Rickards, which is conservative even to the extent of
hanging on to its ancient and unimposing first part with
all the force of the average English Liberal hanging on to
Cobdenism. Nobody likes Rickards’ first part; but all
put up with it even as they do with dogs, dust, and bad
beer.
“0.K.": The imported English provincial ballad
amounts to a new infliction upon Australian concert
audiences. Songs about England and her Glory are as
permissible, of course, as songs about Ireland, Scotland
and Wales, and their national pride and greatness. But
the modern English county-advertisement ditty is some-
thing that we ought to be spared. We have done nothing
to deserve it. When the Australian in London goes to
one of Chappell and Co.’s concerts (at which expensive
artists receive fat fees for warbling Chappell and Co.’s
latest and most vapid publications) he must be prepared
to suffer “ A Song of Surrey,” “ A Lilt of Lincolnshire,”
“ Adorable Dorset,” or what not in that puerile provincial
way. Such ditties are intended to tickle the ears of the
native groundlings from Surrey, Lincolnshire or Dorset.
But when the Australian in Australia goes to hear Ada
Crossley and Co., he doesn’t bargain for the imported
baritone to sing praises to “Devon, glorious Devon.”
The foreign provincial ballad is most uncalled for.
England has 40 county divisions, every one of which is the
subject of a tuneful panegyric, no doubt. But we don’t
want them, any more than the inhabitants of Gloucester-
shire want Ada Crossley to come back and sing about the
Glories of her dative Gippsland.
“ S.” : One leading lady in Australia has in her train an
unknown sister, who much resembles her, and when a
part grows plain, stale, flat, or wearisome, the popular
actress steps out, and the unknown sister steps in. So
far, no audience has discovered the imposition. The
undistinguished sister does the deathbed scenes, and
when the exigencies of the drama call upon the heroine
to disguise herself temporarily as a snuffy old beldame, or
some other unpleasant character, she often rests in her
dressing-room for that act and lets the sister beldame in
her stead. In other professions the “ ghost ” is not un-
common, but a useful, steady-going, all-round ghost of
this kind is rare.
A BALLADE OF HIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, gone the snows of yester-year !
And vanished is last winter’s rain 1
All things are just one moment here ;
The next —and Life itself is slain !
But thus, when all things wax and wane,
Must Women, too, but waste away?
Can’t you your rounded selves remain ?
Where are the Hips of yesterday?
One day at tailor-mades you sneer,
And to the Empire waist attain ;
The next, you tailor-maids appear.
But how those luscious curves restrain ?
And yet they’re gone—that’s very plain !
Though Fashion’s nods you must obey,
Methinks, if stout, such modes must pain !
Where are the Hips of yesterday ?
Once b6b6-ribbons used to peer
From every bosom. I complain
I cannot find them, though quite near
I look for them, in vain, in vain !
But how that slenderness you gain ?
How melt those rounded curves ? O, say !
This problem still defies my brain—
Where are the Hips of yesterday !
L’Envoi :
Mesdames ! your Hips will come again,
Since e’en the new stays do not stay.
Your iron-clad corsets may explain
Where are the Hips of yesterday !
N. S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


NEW YEAR NECKTIES.
nm
""THESE are useful gifts to give a man, and will serve
■ him well. They are beautiful goods, being made
of Silk Twill, a soft material with an exceptionally
attractive appearance.
The Stripe Designs are most popular, being in
rich and delicate colorings which are undoubtedly
the most exquisite blendings we have ever seen.
We give these goods the unstinted praise they deserve.
The Stripes cover a complete range of colors, and
may be had either wide or narrow, as illustrated in
the shapes shown.
Price 2/6 each.
For those whose tastes call for plain colors, we
have a large assortment of Crfipe de Chene and Poplin
Neckwear in every shade. Price 2/6 each.
These will be sent Carriage Paid throughout
the Commonwealth.
MEN’S WEAR. —All men should have a copy of our
Catalogue entitled, “Clothes Craft.” It illustrates
and prices everything a man needs in clothing.
Post Free on request.
David Jones Ltd., Sydney.
n
mn
What Gift for Christmas ?
Why, a CAMERA !
IT AMUSES AND EDUCATES YOUNG AND OLD.
Let us tell you of a few suitable GIFTS from our immense stock.
TKe “Windsor”
Magazine Camera, J-Plate, carries 12 Plates, frood
Lens, etc., and in every way a presentable Gift. Price,
complete, 21/-.
Postage : N.S.W., 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2. Book of Instructibns Pree.
The “Victor”
No. 1 Magazine Camera (i-plate), the
Camera in Australia, carries 12 Plates,
most POPULAR
excellent Lens,
beautifully fitted up. Price, complete, 30/-.
2/2. Book of Instructions Free.
Postage
The “Ensign”
Model V, Post Card size, A FOLDING CAMERA, with
an “ Ensign ” Annstigmat Lens and superb fittings. This
Camera would be a most CHOICE GIFT to lady or gentleman. Price, complete,
£5/2/6. Postage : N.S.W., 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2.
WE HAVE CAMERAS FROM 5/- to £5O.
PHOTO. MATERIALS and Up-to-date Photographic Novelties in immense variety.
Write us NOW for any particulars you may require.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Largest Photographic Importers in the Southern Hemisphere.
386 George St. (near G.P.0.), Sydney ; 179 Collins St„ Melbourne; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
Melbourne’s City Fathers have again had
the hawker nuisance thrust under their probosces.
Seemingly the ancients do not know how to
treat it, or they postpone action from sheer
force of habit. Then again they may not
desire to be ’arsh, as one or two of them
might put it; but certainly they will have
to do something some day. The barrowmen
who were wrenched off Princes Bridge have
grown itinerant, and now glide calmly into Col-
lins-street, Melbourne’s most precious thorough-
fare. The raucous local person and the lucid coun-
tryman of P. Pilate now pursue Society itself with
24 bananas in a bag for 3d. Moreover, they have
.taken to clustering before the street’s most im-
pressive edifice, and to impeding the traffic before
-the building’s still more impressive entrance.
'Therefore, the representative of the proputty has
.given a vocal recital that has aroused the Munici-
pal Dads some. So the matter is now beneath
rtheir probosces, as already mentioned, and some-
thing drastic will be expected daily up till
U 990, A.n.
A while back a Melbourne lumper stuck
his dog-hook into a case of alleged curios, landed
from a ship just arrived from China, and marked
for transhipment to a foreign country. After the
dog-hook had been withdrawn, a dark brown
“curio” began to ooze out on the wharf; so the
case was examined, and found to contain £4OOO
worth of opium in tins. Having waited patiently
for some six weeks, the bland Customs Depart-
ment now asks why the owner doesn’t come
forward and claim his property. But as the mere
possession of the drug involves a heavy penalty
as well as confiscation, the aforesaid owner, sus-
pected to be one Ah Fat, continues to maintain a
most enthusiastic silence.
<*- * • *
In Adelaide, at the Court of Industrial
Appeals, Justice Gordon has been trying to find
out what “ a living wage ” is ; and when, after a
long hearing, the parties came into court and said
that they had agreed to call it 7s. a day, the chirpy
Judge looked like a man who had just been found
not guilty of 17 awful crimes. Up to then his
Honor had been getting all sorts of advice ; the
last adviser who got into the witness-box before
the agreement was come to assured the Judge
that lie earned £1 a week and was “happy with
his lot.” Certainly his lot consisted only of a
wife and no children. But even so the Judge was
interested in getting him to go into details. This is
how he did it—Rent (two rooms), 3s. 6d.; groceries,
2s. 6d.; bread, Is. 9d.; butter, Is. 4d. ; milk, 10|d.;
meat, 4s. ; fuel, Bd. ; vegetables. Is. fid. ; lighting,
4£d.; tobacco, Is. 3d.; fruit and drink, Is. 6d. ;
boots and clothes, 2s. That looked like 21s. 3d.,
but perhaps there was something wrong about
the calculation. Anyhow, if you cut out the
butter it is 19s. lid. ; and 19s. lid. would leave
as much as a penny, which he no doubt cut up
among theatres, cricket-club subscriptions, news-
papers and literature, trips home to see mother,
doctors and chemists, crockery (the handles will
come off the cups somehow), furniture, seed for
the canary, and stamps. With what is left he
gets his hair cut, and buys “a little thing for the
wife ” at Christmas. It’s marvellous what you
can do with a penny. ,
“Jean Sibi” complains :
We who live in the neighborhood of Port Melbourne
have little excitement. Footscray has lost its punch, and
the old familiar odor of hides and perished trotters is
almost gone. The Port itself is getting clean, and ex-
changing its fabulous but often picturesque grime for a
smug, middle-class polish. The smudged dwellings, the
squalid streets with their predatory tikes and plots of
refuse, are acquiring a false bloom. Fresh paint and
scraps of garden suggest paint on an ancient dandy’s
countenance. People absorb less beer, and are becoming
demoralised with cleanliness, and stunned with raw reli-
gion. The Port is decadent now. Take Bay or Graham
street after 8 p.m. on a Saturday night—preposterously
respectable, mostly women shopping; an occasional yob
with his fangs buried in a mouth organ ; and rarely a
fight-or a reeling stevedore. The Army, with its brazen
cadge, its cheerfulness, its mawkishness and bad hymn
tunes, holds forth on a bit of vacant land, where
once a picturesque hoodlum full of beer used
to curse at large. The river improvements have almost
abolished the Yarra floods, which formerly washed tons
of strange old substances to our doors. Then the sea
around the Port was a marvel, a curiosity-shop, a museum,
an old clo’ emporium—anything odd and wonderful. But
now, what is it I—justl—just water, or, at its best, thin Irish
stew topped with the offal from ships’ galleys 1 Thus we
have little excitement. Even the Powerful, which brought
Mr. Poore, the exquisite Cup deadhead, round our way,
failed to interest us. It certainly fired a salute of about
914 guns nearly every time Mr. Poore went ashore in the
Admiral’s barge to buy a stamp or get his hair cut; but
as it was burning cordite like that most of the time it was
at anchor it became a weariness. No—the Port isn’t
what it was.
■* * * *
Some of the Sydney crowds that recently
laughed at Petruchio’s way of taming a shrew —
by starving her—probably didn’t know that that
is still the method adopted in N. S.
Wales gaols. Since the new “ phil-
anthropic ” system was introduced
they don’t crack the whip to any
great extent —anyway, not to the
extent that the shrew-tamer does
in W. Shakspeare’s comedy—but
starvation is part of the regular
menu of N. S. Wales prisoners in
some classes. The State’s gaol-
reformers have evidently the same
ideas as Mr. Bumble with regard
to sin and victuals; wherefore,
when any young N.S.W. person
now shows that he or she has got a
mental kink somewhere, the
N.S.W. prison idea is to starve it
out. Ninety-nine out of every 100
people will have reckoned that
Shak. was pulling the public’s leg
when he represented Katharine
as being quite cured by this pro-
cess; the odd one who takes it seriously is the
Prison Department. Its methods are just the
same as those of the boss whip-cracking humorist
in the comedy.
* * * *
“ Snell” : The A.N.A. intends running a
literary branch in connection with its annual
Melbourne exhibition, and Australian authors
and publishers are invited to provide exhibits.
The idea is to bring before the thousands who
visit the exhibition a striking display of books
made in Australia. It is a%ood idea and a worthy
object. Up to now the A.N. A. has been markedly
indifferent to Australian brains in book form.
Libraries are run in connection with A.N.A.
branches, and a visitor must rummage far and
wide to discover in them evidence of the existence
of anything in the shape of Australian literature.
I went through one library in a populous centre
the other da3 r , and the only Australian book it
contained was a tattered copy of a volume of
Ernest Favene’s short stories.
“ Goderich,” Bayswater-road, Sydney, for
40 years the home of Mrs. Charles Smith, who
died there recently, was built in 1838 by Sheriff
M'Quoid, who suicided on the premises. In its
early days it looked down William-street, the
frontage on the western side not being built upon.
The old mansion has not had many tenants.
Bishop Broughton was one of the earliest. The
executors under Captain Smith’s will are having
the ground cut up into building allotments, which
will front Woolcot-street and Bayswater-road.
The fine old home will be allowed a small area
and, like most of the homes of “ our old Australian
nobility,” will become a hash-turret.
A TALE OF WICKEDNESS.
“ Yes! His wife's never been the same since.”
“Dear me! Has he changed them so often as
that? ”
“Nulla”: Notwithstanding the spread
of the beer drought in Maoriland, a recently-
returned Sydney cleric states that drunkenness is
on the increase in the pious isles. Which fact
would seem to indicate that Maoriland is putting
down the curse with such a firm hand that it
doesn’t spill any of the accursed substance.
THE STORMY PETROL.
“W.”: The Bulletin’s suggestion
(19/11/’08) that every house should have a charac-
ter from the health authorities, which owner or
agent must produce to the prospective tenant
before tenancy is accepted, is good and righteous
altogether. There comes under my notice daily
“ two rooms and a kitch,” at 10s. a week, whither
and whence the procession of victimised tenants is
constant. The house looks all right, but you’ve
got to live in it to know it. Then the artistic
dado in dark colors round each room proves mere
daubing to hide the damp stains rising from jerry-
built foundations ; and a spell of wet weather
turns the premises into a suite of oozy caverns.
To induce people of small or any other means to
go to the expense of moving in and out of such a
trap for sickness is mere swindle, robbery, and
everything else of the kind that Eat is addicted
to. Arise, some legislator, get things altered ; and
the poor people will call thee blessed, and the
landlord will curse thy name for ever and a day !
“ Hiphen ” : The law is as uncertain as
horse-racing, and a good deal more expensive.
And sometimes the law has its dead heats. At
Korumburra (Vic.), last week, grazier No. 1 sued
wool-raiser No. 2 for £99 damages over a matter
of trespass of sheep. Mutton-grower No. 2 sued
lamb-rearer No. 1 for similar damages for a similar
crime committed by his woolly goods. The c l® al ’r
headed Law couldn’t separate them, so awarded
£5 damages and Costs to each of the sheep-
nourishers. Thus the sheep-magnates are just
where they were, barring the loss of time and the
flurry and the Costs. The lawyers have got the
Costs.
“ Hassan ” : There
is an idea abroad that,
next to getting married,
getting locked up is the
easiest thing in the
world. In Melbourne at
least, unless you answer
a very young constable
back, you will find it one
of the most difficult. At
about one o’clock the
other night I happened
to have business in one
of the suburban watch-
houses. As I approached
the door, a forlorn soul
with a breath that light-
ened the gloom clutched
me desperately by the
arm, and some of his
breath fell down my
back. “For God’s sake
lock me up,” he pleaded,
“ away from these.” He
hung on to me, and I
dragged him to the pre-
sence of the watchhouse-
keeper. “Ah ! ” ex-
claimed the Breath, as
he caught sight of the
uniform. “You’ll lock
the spiders out, con-
stable.” “He’s been
here four toimes this
night,” explained the
constable in charge. “Oi
don’t know what to do
wid him, at all, at all.”
He turned to the Breath.
“Go out an’ lie in the
street for a whoile —thin
a polaceman will bring
ye in an’ charge ye.”
“I can’t find a police-
man, ” wailed the Breath.
“Nothing but spiders.”
“Take thim away fr’m
here, thin. Take thim
to Sir Thomas Oar-r-
-michael! Take thim to
Hell! Is it me that’s
goin’ to char-rge ye, an’ to come down here in the
mor-rnin’ to give ividence? Here” The
watch house-keeper pulled out sixpence. “Take
ut an’ get a bed at the doss, an’ wrop yure-
silf up well so the spidhers can’t get under-
neath.” The wreck took the coin and faced
the spiders again. And I have in memory
another case. A sergeant was standing on the
edge of the pavement in Latrobe-street when a
gentle stranger approached, politely asking for a
night’s lodging in the cells. The thing couldn’t
be done, the sergeant declared. “I can’t lock
you up unless you have committed an offence.”
“What sort of offence?” inquired the stranger,
mildly. “ Oh, any sort. Bust a window, assault
somebody,” he was told. He hauled off, hit the
sergeant fair in the eye, followed it up with a
right uppercut to the jaw, fell on top of the
officer, and bit his ear. Three constables ran to
the scene, dragged him off, and assisted their
superior to his feet. “I suppose that’ll do,” said
the stranger. “ Put plenty of blankets in my
cell ; I think it’s going to be cold before morning.”
» * * . *
“ Wealthy Willie ” : A something in the
way of records is about to happen in Melbourne’s
semi-starched suburb of haughty commercials and
partially-bloated softgoodsmen —the simple, not
unpleasant village of Malvern. This something
is to be a double wedding, in which a fond mamma
will wed her Percy (or Hercules, or whatever it is),
while her loving daughter will, on the same day
and within the same sacred portals, march up to
the altar and snatch her own devoted William (or
Henry, as the case may be). Malvern is getting
on. these days, and will be quite a gentleman’s
suburb in time, if the local sensations can be kept
down to homely happenings such as this. Mal-
vern’s trying really hard, nowadays, and doing
rather well so far.
* « ■» *
“ Petifi ” : Certain Bulletin references to
the unlucky mortals who have to stagger through
life with such names as “Barnum Maffick Smith,”
and “ Sperry Columbia Star-spangled Jones,” re-
call the only time I ever used profane language.
I asked a romantic matron friend of mine what
she was going to call the latest immigrant from
Storkland, and she gushingly replied : “ Oh ! I’ve
got such a beautiful name for the darling pet—
Loris! So poetic, isn’t it? Reminds you some-
how of Edgar Allan Poe, and moonlight on the
mystic Rhine, and the raven that said ‘Never-
more,’ and sweet, appealing things like
that, doesn’t it ? Loris !—so romantic, I think.’
Later, I descended into a dictionary, and then I
swore. For that child was a blue-eyed, golden-
haired cherub, and to name it after a blastiferous
lemur that scratches itself up a tree in Ceylon
was an outrage and ten different kinds of a curse.
EXCITEMENT IN HIGH LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On a night of frosty splendor in mid-January, Mayfair,
the sanctmh of London’s creme de la creme of society,
was excited over an event of more than ordinary interest,
even for that charmed circle of fashion and wealth. —
Opening sentence of Sydney Evening News new shocker
15/ ISf 08.
Lo ! ’tis Mayfair !
The “ sanctum ” where
The social “ cream ”
’Mid bliss supreme
Quenches the first
Sharp pangs of thirst
In B. and S. and champagne cup ;
And afterwards sits down to sup,
And, having madly eaten up
All of the food,
Both bad and good,
That erstwhile stood
The board upon,
Mutters “ It’s gone.
Now let us don
Kid gloves and dance,
And caper, prance,
Waltz, polk and lance.”
See ! They’ve begun 1
What gorgeous fun,
Mark how they run
From place to place,
And leap and race.
What wondrous grace
Hark to that yell!
A duchess fell.
A silent spell
Ensues the while they lever her
Into a seat, and disinter
A medico. Experts aver
Her grace’s need
At utmost speed
Is whisky neat.
All hands repeat
The words. They treat
The aged soul
To alcohol
Out of a bowl.
The revelry
Restarts. Hours fly
Right merrily,
And so does meat
And things to eat
Like fowls, pigs’ feet,
Rolls, soup and jam.
Resounds a slam,
Likewise a “Damn,”
And an old peer is seen to bound
High in theair, screaming “you Hound 1"
While—bouncing off his skull—two pound
Of trotters whirl
And smite an earl,
Whose anguished skirl
Rings through the hall
Convulsing all.
* * •
And now night’s pall
Has vanished ;
The sky grows red,
Everywhere dead
Marines are spread.
The food is fled.
Well-wined and fed
The guests are led
To Home and Bed.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
J LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
PATENTS AND TRADE MARKS.
Griffith and Allen,
International Patent Attorneys,
163 King Street, Sydney; 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Corresponding Agents throughout the World.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should',
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where -
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,..
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from»
George or King Streets).*
Hi
§
, v .,.u
HANDY FOR
THE HOLIDAY.
These MILITARY HAIR BRUSHES were
a special purchase, and consequently we
are offering- them much below their usual
price. They are of genuine bristles-
strongly fixed into ebonised backs.
They take up so little space that you
will welcome them for daily use, and
afterwards they will last indefinitely.
4®. Gd. a Pair.
Posted, Gd. extra.
Write for our New Catalogue.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
“Men's Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
One of the misfortunes of Australia is the
possession of the Kelly family. T. H. Kelly, of
Sydney, alderman and so forth, plays the violin
occasionally, and apparently believes that he is an
authority on the subject of music generally and
organ music in particular. So the said Kelly,
who possibly mistakes the organ for a whistle,
urges Sydney Municipal Council to send to
Europe, England preferred, for “an organist of
repute” at a salary of £3OO per annum. The
salary is absurd, and no organist of repute is going
to cut himself loose from his special environment
for such a miserable salary. If Mr. Kelly’s pro-
posal is adopted it means that Sydney will get a
fourth or fifth-rate man whose chances of rising in
the land of his birth were practically nil, and
will boom him at the expense of Sydney Munici-
pal Council. The position of City Organist
should be one of the prizes of the Australian
musical profession, for there are, in proportion
to population, many organists of repute in
Sydney. When the subject arose of appointing a
successor to organist Mason, the applicants boiled
down to Messrs. Mason, Sykes and W. H. Wale,
and of these three the last was the greatest.
However, Mason was reappointed after a lot of
wrangling, and within a few weeks he resigned to
take up a position in the London office of the
S. M. Herald at £6OO per annum. Then the
position had to be faced again. Instead of appoint-
ing either Sykes or Wale, fresh applications were
called, and 18 were received. The Council decided
that the whole 18 applicants should be allowed a
chance to show what they could do on the great
instrument, and they were given a month each.
The last of the 18, Mr. Tearne, is now officiating,
and when the Council met to decide which
of them had won the position, Mr. Kellv
proposed once more that it should get
an “organist of repute from England,” at
£3OO per annum. Fortunately, however, the
Council demurred. It felt that it ought to
give local musicians a show, especially after get-
ting them to play its organ for 18 months. And
to pass over a man with the qualifications of Wale
m order to buy a pig in a poke in Europe was folly.
Wale is a Bachelor in Music of Oxford, a Fellow
of the Royal College of Organists, and for years a
member of the council of that distinguished
musical body, a man of much experience and a
well-known writer on musical subjects in many
papers, including the Organists’ Quarterly
Journal. He has been examiner in music
at the universities of Adelaide and Mel-
bourne, and was chosen by the great
English organ-makers, Beard, Norman & Co., to
superintend the fitting up of their organs in Aus-
tralia on account of his technical knowledge. Dr.
Turpin, hon. sec. of the Royal College of Organ-
ists and Warden of Trinity College, London,
said, among many other eulogistic things: “It
would be quite impossible to name a better or
more fully qualified organist for the position in
question.” Yet, in the face of all these arguments,
Mr. Kelly, who plays the violin occasionally, pro-
poses to go to Europe “for an organist of repute.”
It is the breaking out of the Importing Disease
agam, and in one of its most horrible forms.
* * * .
Curious extract from a lawyer’s oration in
a recent Sydney case :
Besides serving sentence after sentence plaintiff had
been flogged in gaol, but nevertheless he had not forfeited
the respect of the gaol officials.
John L. Sullivan when in Australia ex-
pressed himself strongly in favor of allowing
women at prize-fights. “ It’s nat’ral,” he argued,
for ladies to admire fighters.” He considered
Mrs. Fitzsimmons’ cheering words and advice
—“ Hit him in the ribs ; keep at him in
the ribs ; leave his jaw alone ” —the
noblest in the language. “ She
was a woman of whom any
man would be proud,” per-
sisted John.
SURE OF ONE THING.
HE: "So you think I'm too poor to marry you .
Hare you a heart .?”
SHE: “I don’t know so much about a heart , but
I know I’ve got an appetite!”
The old tale of the man who turns up after
a long absence to find his grass-widow another
man’s wife, was told again at Gympie (Q.) the
other day. The first husband left his wife, and
stayed away for two or three years. His better
fraction concluded that the husband had grass
growing over him, so she married No. 2, to find
out later that No, 1 was still a matrimonial cir-
cumstance to be reckoned with. Then No. 2
turned dog on her, allegedly because his people
objected to the marriage ; and to her request for
a small sum to make baby-clothes, he submitted
an agreement ”by which she was to renounce all
claim on him, forbear to use his name again,
deliver up the marriage certificate, burn all cor-
respondence and promise never to put a spoke in
the wheel of his newer matrimonial ventures The
woman, however, wasn’t having any agreement,
and registered the child as illegitimate, which led
the Law to become inquisitive and charge her with
bigamy. The case was heard before Judge Rutledge,
who fell on No.. 1 and No. 2 with vehemence.
For leaving his wife and children without support
No. 1 (who was a witness) was a rascal arid a
scoundrel; and as for No. 2, the Court simply
cleaned up the premises and the back yard with
him. The jury then found the woman “not
guilty,” and the parties were left to sort them-
selves out with varied feelings.
* * * *
“Ifcan”: Perishable foodstuffs, liable to
fly and dust infection, are still exposed for sale in
Sydney and suburban shops in a manner
which ought to shock even a New Hebrides
head-hunter. Not long ago a spasm of
virtue seized the City Council, and
the result was a measure of
protection to the public. For
instance, cooked goods are
now wrapped in white paper,
instead of in waste journals,
which may have first reposed
awhile in any old place.
After that the City Council
threatened to compel butch-
ers to wire-gauze their pre-
mises to keep the millions of
flies off the meat; but the
promise still stands dis-
honored. Legions of flies
sport from the gutter flotsam,
and the horse refuse in the
streets, and the sewer mouths,
and the ancient oyster-shells and.
the decadent fish in the open window
of Demetrius Steakopoulos, to the meat
and mutton and pork that repose and
dream hour after hour in a sweltering'
atmosphere, waiting for buyers. There
is no attempt worth mentioning to
yard off the insect enemy of mankind.
Besides that, every rustle in the air
disturbs the foetid dust, and sends
clouds of it swirling into shops to
spread disease and the dead feeling.
Evidently the municipal councils
have not the backbone to stand up
between the people and the common
or buzzing fly, while the Wade
Government is too busy being nasty
to the Commonwealth to attend to the matter.
* * * *
Two lots of people made a start at fish-
trawling in S. Australian waters the other day,
and both of them met wretched luck on the gang-
way, so to speak. The first steamer to go down
the Gulf from Port Adelaide was Captain Kay’s
Argyle. It did moderately well at the mouth of
the Murray, and then put off for the schnapper
grounds, where the first haul panned out 20l>
stingrays up to 6ft. across and a dogfish—good
enough stuff for the Scotch fishermen’s manure
works; only the manure works haven’t material-
ised yet, and meantime there is some prejudice
against stingrays, boiled, fried, or poached.
After that Kay s men had another try, and
the trawling net came to grief so badly that
the expedition had to get back to port.
The Scotch fishermen fared a lot worse. They
had chartered the steamer Ellen, which followed
the Argyle down the Gulf; but they hadn’t
fairly started before the boat was carried on to
the rocks and became a wreck. The accident
threw a large and heavy wet blanket over the
business; but the people interested are mostly
named Mac Something, and it usually takes more
one wet blanket to make people named
Mac Something turn tail and run.
An interesting trade-mark case cropped
up in the Melbourne Practice Court, t’other week,
the parties being rival manufacturers of soft
drinks. Dixon and Co., the plaintiffs, sought an
injunction to restrain the Australian firm of
Schweppes from using a colorable imitation of
their “0.T.” label, representing a red chilli on a
medallion. The defendants’ trade-mark was a
sprig of chillies on a medallion, in illustration of
the word “ Chillio,” and Justice Hodges decided
that both the pictorial design and the word which
emphasised it were plagiaristic. To the mind of
the, learned Judge, the letters “0.T.” in con-
duction with one red chilli conveyed the same idea
as “Chillio” and a cluster of the red-’ot beans,
therefore he granted a perpetual injuction to re-
strain Schweppes from using either the word or
the illustrative device. Or rather, it was the de-
fendants who agreed to an injunction, and the
Judge who formally approved of the settlement.
The increasing elasticity of the legal mind is very
noticeable in these trade-mark cases. Time was
when nothing short of an exact copy of an estab-
lished brand was accepted as a “ colorable imita-
tion.” Income cases the stealing of a well-known
name was permitted. “ Chlorodyne” was an in-
stance in point. Many years ago Dr. Collis
Browne, the originator of the name, applied for
an advt. monopoly of it, and the Judge ruled that
anybody was entitled to sell another brand of
chlorodyne in a bottle similar to that which had
been identified with the original stomachic.
* * * *
The Coronet, the quaint and serious yacht
that failed to meet with Sydney’s approval, hove-
to alongside Port Melbourne pier, where the mail-
boats stay, the other morning. The skipper and
Sand ford, the alleged owner, were a shade less
exclusive than when in the Ma State’s waters.
The sect which hides in the boat—the Holy
Ghost and Us, Us being presumably the crew—
possesses four or five other boats, which constitute
the “Kingdom Fleet,” or Yacht Club, and most
of them are presently expected to pervade Aus-
tralian ports. The sect, or firm, or combine, or
whatever it is, has an idea of “occupying lands”
in all five continents ; what it is going to do when
it occupies the lands it doesn’t explain. Its head-
quarters are at Shiloh, a sort of mixed monastery
with two “ praying turrets,” and every resident of
Shiloh has to take a turn in a turret. In fact,
they pray in shifts, night and day. Unfortu-
nately, this doesn’t seem to leave the necessary
time for cleaning up the back yard and digging
drains; so there have been two or three bad epi-
demics of diphtheria, etc., at Shiloh.
“ Gilrooney ” : Sydney may not have a
Melbourne Cup, or a Tommy Bent, or a Henry
Gainford, but it more than balances those enor-
mous deficiencies by possessing absolutely the best
tram system in the Commonwealth. To properly
appreciate the efficiency of the Sydney service one
has merely to make a martyr of himself on the
Melbourne and Adelaide tram-cars for a few
trips. In Melbourne the wretched snail-like cars
are painted in about 27 \ different colors, and they
never seem to be going anywhere in particular.
Two or three conductors or heroes (for they are
covered with badges) shove the go-carts around.
the curves, and then, with a shepherd’s crook,,
root about in a dark hole in the street for some- ■
thing they appear to have lost. Still, nobody
troubles, and the Melbourne man walks along to-
his office or his work without so much as glanc-
ing back to see if the multi-colored tor-
toise is following. But to go from Mel-
bourne to Adelaide is to go from Badl
to Worse. I went to a comedy show one night;.
Next day I patronised the horse-trams, after
which I felt like going to the first comedy show
and demanding my money back. No circus was
ever to be compared to those cars. To see the
two-storeyed vehicles run off the rails round the
curves, and the cool, Irvine- drivers
steering them back on again, makes a man forget
his sorrows. By the way, Adelaide’s main streets
are now thronged with workmen, who are laying
down the new electric tramways. I wouldn’t like
to be in the Holy City the day those cars start.
Something will happen. Such unprecedented
velocity coming all in one lump will take the
Religious Capital’s breath away. Worse than
that, the new cars will smite Adelaide in the
back, and it will be taken to the hospital to have,
its spine amputated.
TO THE SUMMER
GIRL
[FOR THE UBLLETIN.]
~JT W AVE I been blinded with excess of
§ m light 1
JL JL Have I been charmed with any
wild bird's whistle ?
Have I been routed in a fearsome fight.
Or merely stunned with some most grievous
missile ?
Or mocked by thee, thou sun-burnt butterfly,
Dear Summer Girl, good-bye!
Oh, shady Summer Hat! Oh, Golden Head /
Oh, flimsy frocking, far too faint for flounces !
They weighed you when your owner went to bed,
VIC.
And all you weighed was nearly
seven ounces.
Oh, honey lips and eyes extremely shy !
Dear Summer Girl, good-bye !
Should we two meet in the brown time to
come
(An unkind Fate sometimes such sport
arranges ),
Would you be sorrowful, would I be dumb ?
Sweetheart, the game is off, the order
changes,
A keen, cool wind is battling through the
sky.
Dear Summer Girl, good-bye!
SHAW NEILSON.
HOW MUCH WILL THIS STATE LOSE?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How much will this State lose ? Twelve months ago
all the wool on this side of the border was sent to Moree
to truck to Sydney, and the settlers trot their necessary
supplies back the same Way ; but this year some 6000
bales of New South Wales wool was sent over the border
to Goondiwindi and railed and sold in Brisbane, and
people obtained their supplies back the same way. The
same applies to stock. One settler, I hear, has ordered
trucks for 6000 fat sheep to be trucked to Brisbane at
stated intervals, owing to being unable to get trucks sup-
plied by our Railway Department without months of
waiting. We are spending New South Wales money to
benefit Brisbane by giving her our trade.— Letter to the
Sydney Telegraph (18/12/’08).
The bitter cry’s resounding
Throughout this hapless State ;
Intelligence astounding
Is published while you wait.
The Telegraph, unheeding,
Just prints the awful news—
“ To Queensland trade is speeding ”
How much will this State lose?
Prate not to us of barter
That benefits each man ;
Our Ma State is a martyr,
The victim of a plan !
The other States, combining,
Would rob her of her dues—
No wonder we’re repining—
How much will this State lose ?
Twelve months ago, right gladly,.
They trucked wool from Moree j
But now we miss it sadly—
It doesn’t reach the Quay !
A million bales come yearly
To Sydney’s ships and crews.
But not those prized most dearly—
How much will this State lose ?
O, come and raise a shindy,
And elevate old Cain !
Our wool’s in Goondiwindi
And won’t come back again 1—
The Brisbane shops are reaping
Our profits by a ruse—
Great Wade ! Why are you sleeping ?
How much will this State lose ?
O, call upon Carruthers
And let him hear our woe !
Our wicked Queensland brothers
No ruth or mercy show !
They’re grabbing all our money,
They’re sneaking all our ewes,
Our chickens, wheat and honey—
How much will this State lose l
Don’t talk about the Nation—
The Commonwealth you’ve made ;;
How dare our own relation
Compete with us for trade ?
He may be of our kidney,
But we decline to fuse !
Unless he deals in Sydney
How much will this State lose V
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O'HAGAN.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENQINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all coiners at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s
" NATIONAL
trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
" ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
b y
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY: Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
■ m STOrK— Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
° Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
a 0-Ants for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester • Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Statlonaryjnglnes^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Association of
Australasia :
Writ. Added
ten to
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1898.. £179,665 £240,417 £86,398 £152,820
1899.. 499,753 222,764 91,058 £7219 178,712
1900 .. 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 140,678
1901 .. 566,417 303,190 90,971 725 171,531
1902 .. 583,149 286,953 100,852 400 194,944
1903 .. 634,071 303,836 112,270 217,965
1904 .. 717,062 328,920 129,591 258,551
1905 .. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
1906 .. 824,624 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907 .. 898,253 374,809 157,512 1993 363,939
1908 .. 970,611 407,168 162,342 4691 £96,410
The society has two funds—the assurance fund, which
now amounts to £5,245,103, and the investment fluctua-
tion reserve, from which £4691 has been off dur-
ing the past year, and which now stands at £79,723. The
progress of the society continues rapid. A comparison of
the assurance funds :
National
A.M.P. Mutual.
Funds, 10 years ago .. £14,479,578 £2,765,571
Funds, present .. 23,446,497 5,245,102
Increase .. .. £8,966,919 £2,479,531
= 62p.c. = 90 p.c.
Of course the A.M.P. is much older, and consequently
the drain upon the funds on account of claims is propor-
tionately greater ; yet, allowing for that, a society which
does so well in comparison with the A.M.P.—naturally
the standard of insurance comparisons in Australia—must
prima f icie be regarded as having done very well indeed.
Still there are some doubts or at least qualifications.
In the first place, the National Mutual has been pursu-
ing business with very great energy in S. Africa, and it
is not certain yet how that will turn out. In the next
place, the society is understood to be doing a good deal
of without-medical-examination business ; and there are
some doubts about that, too. Just how it will turn out
depends very largely upon the care and thoroughness
with which inquiries are made, apart from the doctor.
The saving in the doctor’s bill is, of course, substantial.
In medical fees and expenses the A.M.P. last year paid
away £l5 3s. per cent, of the amount received in new-
business premiums ; the National Mutual paid only £7 11s.
per cent., or rather less than half as much. If the National
Mutual paid at the same rate as the A.M.P., its doctor’s
bill would be £7850 a vear more ; but, then, its income
might not grow quite' so rapidly. Neither, later on,
might the claims.
The expense rate is rather high, if it is calcu-
lated on the basis of total income, as in the following list:
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1899 ..£lB 4 5 per cent.
1900 .. 16 14 11
1901 .. 16 1 3
1902 .. 17 511 ~
1903 .. 17 14 1
1904 .. £lB 1 spercent.
1905 .. 18 2 9 „
1906 .. 17 13 9 „
1907 .. 17 10 8 „
1908 .. 16 14 6 „
But there are other things to be taken into account.
First, the amount of new business; for obviously an
office which does the most of that ought to have the
highest expense rate. Taking the old business to cost
7 per cent, of the premium income derived from it, and
the new single premium and annuity business to cost 3
per cent., then the rest of the new business has to bear
the balance of the cost; and on that basis the new
business would last year cost 116 per cent, of the
premiums collected—a slightly higher average than
for the previous year. Thus, though there is a shrinkage
in the expense rate calculated total income, the ex-
planation, or a great part of it, lies in the fact that both
actually and in proportion to total income, last year’s new
business was less than that of the previous year, when, on
the basis used above, the new business cost was 114 p.c. of
new premium income. This is by no means the best
rate in Australia. The A.M.P., which, on account of
its long life and high reputation, gets so much business
automatically, worked last year at a new business rate
of 85'6 per cent., calculated in the same way. Other
offices, some of them smaller, but doing Industrial business,
also show a lower Ordinary new-business rate ; and the
National Mutual will yet have to consider whether it will
not be wise to feed its Ordinary department in the same
way. The founder of the society, the late Colonel
Templeton, was understood to dislike the idea of an
Industrial department; but it may have to come..
The interest earnings are above the average
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1901 .. £4 13 4 percent.
1902 .. 411 7 „
1903 .. 413 11 „
1904 .. 413 9
1905 .. £4 13 7 per cent.
1906 .. 412 8 „
1907 .. 411 6 „
1908 .. 411 8 „
Interest and rents are shown by this office “ after deduc-
tion of rates and taxes.” This, of course, reduces the
interest earnings, but it also reduces the expense rate.
Including rates and taxes as expenses, the rate moves up
from £l6 14s. 6d. to £l7 Bs. 7d. per cent, of total income ;
and the interest earnings gross are then £4 14s. lid. per
cent, of funds. The weakest feature of the finance is the
large proportion of the funds in mortgages and proper-
ties and the .small proportion in public securities.
The latter represent only 7*4 per cent, of total
assets, as against 31*6 per cent, in the A.M.P. and
587 per cent, in the Citizens’. Mortgages, on the
other hand, represent no less than 52’9 per cent,
and properties (including foreclosures) 157 per cent,
of the assets. The tendency of both the other offices
mentioned has been to increase the proportionate holding
of public securities and reduce that of properties and
mortgages ; so the position of the three offices now is .
National
Mutual. A.M.P. Citizens’.
Public Securities.. 7‘4 p.c. 31'6 p.c. 587 p.c.
Mortgages.. .. 52'9 „ 41-5 „ -2'5 „
Properties.. .. IST ~ 4 2. »» , Jr f. ” i
The interest earnings are, of course, different —.National
Mutual, £4 14s. lid. p.c.; A.M.P., £4 9s. lid; Citizens’,
£4 4s. lOd. But there are obvious advantages in a large
holding of public securities ; they mean smaller losses
and a lower expense rate. Apart from the greater security
which they give, it is almost certain that, oyer a range of
years, public securities, wisely purchased, give the office
at least an equal net return. However, the National
Mutual evidently takes a different view of the value of
mortcfaires, with the result that it has put up the propor-
tion of its assets held in that class of security from 49’8
p.c. in 1907 to the 52*9 p.c. shown above for 1908. One
consequence of the policy is that the society lias £118,093
of foreclosed property on its hands, as against £110,639
in 1907. ,
... *
The National Bank op Tasmania :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Nov., 1902 £4479 5 per cent. = £3991 £4BB £30,136
May, 1903 4908 6 „ „ 3991 - 917 31,0u3
Nov 1903 4699 5 ~ ~ 3991 /08 31,<61
Mav' 1904 6247 6 4789 - 458 32,219
Nov’, 1904 6438 6 „ ” 4789 - 649 32,868
May, 1905 5291 6 „ „ 4789 - 602 33,3i0
Nov 1905 5752 6 ~ »» 4789 963 34,333
May*,* 1906 5696 6 „ „ £lo o° U T O ££*2s
Nov., 1906 6249 6 „ „ 4789 1460 35,700
Mav 1907 9077 7 ~ » 5587 3490 39,190
Noi 1907 8670 7 , 6587 1000 1983 41,173
fflSi’SS S ? :: :: ™ 5*5
Nov., 1908 8464 7 „ .» 5 687 2877 46 ' 266
This bank begins to feel the backwash. Wool, copper,
tin, lead, apples—all had remarkably good markets at
the same time, and the bank shared in the prosperity
caused by the high prices of these Tasmanian staples.
Wool is still fetching something better than moderate
prices, but all the other industries are in trouble. The
Tasmanian tin-dredging boom is, in fact, dead and
buried ; it was a bad fizzle, but while it lasted it added a
few pounds to Tasmanian bank profits. Mt. Lyell still
does great things ; but probably Lyell itself isn’t worth
much to the Tasmanian bank, and the search for other
Lyells has eased off. Under the circumstances it wouldn’t
have b.*en at all surprising if the profits had tumbled a
good many steps further down the ladder. This com-
parison certainly suggests that the downward movement
is likely to go further: —
Nov., ’O7. Nov., ’OB.
Notes in circulation .. £66,089 £57,772 Dec. £8,317
Bills, etc 14,908 10,984 Dec. 3,924
Deposits at interest .. 250,382 261,728 Inc. 11,346
Deposits, free .. .. 314,542 253,789 Dec. 60,753
Liquid assets .. .. 155,173 111,639 Dec. 43,534
Advances .. .. 662,281 649,301 Dec. 12,980
Premises, etc. .. .. 28,268 27,214 Dec. 1,054
An increase of the deposits on which interest is called for,
a heavy reduction of free money, and a reduction of
advances point to smaller profits. Moreover, the advances
are even now greater than they ought to be. The bank
owes £584,273 and has only £111,286 of liquid assets—
only 19 per cent., which, so far as The Bulletin can
remember, is the smallest proportion of liquid assets held
by any Australian bank fora long while past. Unless there
are some very special circumstances which don’t lie on the
surface, this is trading on too narrow a margin altogether.
In the final resort, of course, the thing that counts most,
so far as the depositors are concerned, is the proportion
of shareholders’ capital in the business; and here the
position is quite satisfactory. For every £1 of the share-
holders’ money, the bank has less than £3 of the public’s.
Put in another way, the bank owes £584,273, of which it
has £111,639 in liquid assets, leaving £472,634 repre-
sented by non-liquid assets ; and those non-liquid assets
total £676,515. There is plenty of security, therefore ;
the only trouble is that, with so much of the free deposits
locked up in advances, a bank cannot meet any sudden
crisis. Also, when it works on such a narrow margin of
liquid assets inordinary times, it has to pass unusually'
profitably business that may come its way in times of
stress. Naturally, since it makes use of so much of the
current account money, its profits are rather high. On
the basis of capital and reserves, recent results have
been : .
May, 1905 .. £5 14 5 p.c.
Nov., 1905.. 6 4 1 „
May, 1906.. 6 2 3 „
Nov., 1906.. 614 2 „
May, 1907 .. £9 13 5 p.c.
Nov., 1907.. 819 3 „
Mav, 1938 .. 9 2 0 „
Nov., 1908.. 813 3 „
But the profit on this scale is only being' made by taking
risks which the bank is hardly likely to continue.
* * * »
The Derwent and Tamar Assurance Co.
(Hobart, Tas.), which used to be the Derwent and Tamar
Fire, Life and Marine Assurance 00. :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Oct., Loss. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
1898 .. £10,780 5 p.c. = £2625 £55,799
Profit.
1899 .. 8.260 10 „ „ 5250 £3OlO 58,809
1900 .. 7,152 10 „ „ 5250 1902 60,711
1901 .. . 3,028 6J ~ „ 3281 60,458
1902 .. 8,909 10 ~ „ 5250 3659 64,117
1903 .. 4,140 7£ „ „ 3937 203 64,320
1904 .. 8,233 10 „ ~ 5250 2983 67,303
1905 .. 9,684 10 ~ „ 5250 4434 71,737
1906 .. 10,122 15 „ „ 7875 2247 73,984
1907 .. 7,014 10 „ „ 5250 1764 75,748
1808 .. 9,944 15 „ „ 7875 2069 77,817
This co. was the last of the Australasian fire and marine
offices to stand out of the limited liability provisions of
the modern Companies Acts ; but it, too, took advantage
of the law during the past year. Its subscribed capital
is £lOO,OOO ; half is paid, and the shareholders are liable
for the balance (£1 per share). The year has been a very
profitable one. The co. has a good marine connection,
and Australian marine business, turned out to be much
more profitable than fire business during the past 12
months —esnecially to those cos. that do business in
Maoriland and S. Australia (including Broken Hill). The
figures that follow present some comparisons :
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1898.. £20,095 £30,419 £5llB 151‘4 p.c. 25’4 p.c.
1900.. 23,061 13,910 6115 60.3 „ 26'5 „
1905.. 19,795 8,208 6465 41'5 „ 327 „
1906.. 20,485 8,585 6477 41'9 „ 31'6 „
1907.. 21,275 12,835 6379 60'3 „ 29'9 „
1908.. 21,705 7,953 7159 36'6 „ 32'9 „
The loss rate is erratic, and so of course are the profits,
considering them year by year; that, however, follows
almost of necessity from the limited size of the business.
The profit for the past year was, in fact, better than is
shown by the figures in the first table ; but £4OO has
been written off securities and £lO6 has ‘been paid as a
special bonus to officers. So as riot to disturb
the expense-rate comparison, these charges have
not, however, been included in the second
table. Even without them the loss rate has moved
up, probably owing to the keener insurance competition
of the past year. Of the undivided profits (reserves)
£20,000 is now transferred to a contingency fund. The
object is not clear. Recognising that, in a business of
this size, the losses are liable to be much greater one year
than another, it may have been thought wise to establish
a sort of fluctuation fund ; and the plan is a very good
one. In proportion to risks the funds are unusually large.
On the other hand, no less than £86,416, or just upon
two-thirds of all the assets, are locked up in mortgages.
The invested assets of all sorts return an average of about
£4 7s. per cent. Is it really worth while for a fire office
to take mortgage risks in order to get a return of that
size ? Suppose on £50,000 of mortgages an average of
only £125 a year has to be written off, even that brings
the interest return down by £ per cent.
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor and
Agency Co. (Perth)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apr., 1903.. £lOl9 10p.c. =£473 £546 £6,810
Oct., 1903.. 986 *lO ~ „ 473 513 7,323
Apr.,1904.. 1443 32J „ ~1523 7,243
Oct., 1904.. 1363 10 ~ „ 525 838\ 8,081
Apr., 1905.. 1551 30 „ ~1675 8,057
Oct., 1905.. 1611 10 ~ „ 525 1086 9,143
Apr., 1906.. 1252 10 „ „ 525 727 9,870
Oct., 1806.. 714 10 „ „ 525 189 10,059
Apr., 1907.. 1197 15 „ „ 787 410 10,469
Oct., 1907.. 1589 20 ~ ~1050 £389 150 10,619
Apr., 1908.. 1275 10 ~ „ 525 1000 10,369
Oct., 1908.. 1107 10 „ „ 625 582 10,951
This co., formed in 1892, did a good deal of agency busi-
ness in its earlier years, for Westralia was the land of
absentees. Latterly, however, as things have settled
down and people have had time to die, the trustee busi-
ness appears to have grown, and no doubt will go on
growing if the co. behaves itself. The increase of trust
balances recently has been considerable. A change has,
however, been made in the manner in which the trust
balances are presented. Formerly only the invested
amounts were added in ; now the full total value of the
estates (including unrealised properties) is included. This
accounts for part of the big jump shown in the last line :
April, Oct., April, Oct.,
1901. 1907. 1908. 1908.
Commissions *.. £1,540 £2,939 £2,788 £2,635
Interest, rent, etc... 535 531 403 510
Expenses .. .. 1,321 1,881 1,917 2,038
Expenses p.c. of re-
venue .. .. 63*6 64-2 60 T 64‘8
Profits p.c. of funds.. 10/12/7 15/10/6 12/7/4 10/17/4
Trust balances .. 103,234 501,355 538,644 1,073,392
The expenses are calculated without allowing for the use of
the co.’s own premises ; the latter amount is deducted from
the rent return. In other words, it is shown as a
reduction of income instead of an addition to ex-
penses. The capital is £10,000; the whole of it
was put into office property, which stands in the books
at £12,000. Allowing £3OO a year as rent for the co.’s
own office, the net return on that book value is a shade
over 6 per cent. The co.’s other assets are mainly mort-
gages arid debentures. Its total liabilities are only £22. As
with practically every trustee co. the return on the share-
holders’ funds is very high ; the only fly in the ointment
is the liability of £2 on each share (paid to 10s.). With
ordinary care, however, the risk is not great; for the co.
has no deposits, etc., to safeguard. The only serious
risk, so far as the uncalled capital is concerned, is that
the trusts will be improperly administered ; but it is about
10 years since an Australian trustee co. got into any
trouble publicly on that account. And then it was
simply the result of eminent counsel reading a couple of
lines in a Victorian Act one way while the Privy Council
read it eventually another way.
-*■*•*■*
The Haymarket Permanent Land, Building
and Investment Co. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £l4Ol 1J p.c. =£lo9o £3ll £40,922
1900.. 2344 3 „ „ 2201 143 41,065
1901.. 2369 3 „ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902.. 2922 3 „ „ 2308 614 41,f77
19)3.. 2590 3 „ „ 2477 113 41,890
1904.. 3044 3 „ „ 2584 460 42,350
1905.. 3017 3 ~ ~ 2595 422 42,772
1906 . 3349 3J ~ ~ 3061 . 288 43,060
1907.. 3872 4 ~ „ 3534 £lO,OOO 33,398
1908.. 4856 4 „ „ 3585 1,000 271 33,669
This co. is in the land-purchase and subdivision business.
Amongst other properties it owns the fine Furraeabad
Estate, near Glen Innes, which it lately offered at auction
without much business resulting. Meantime, however,
it does what the subdivider doesn’t often trouble about —
it works part of the property itself, and lets the balance
in farm areas, helping the farmer with stock, etc., and
helping itself with some of the profit. As one lot of pro-
perty is got rid of -—mostly on terms —another is secured ;
lately the co. bought a slice of country at Dobroyd, along-
side Haberfield—one of the new suburbs of Sydney that
have least reason to be ashamed of themselves as to the
manner they are laid out, and the sort of build-
ings that are being put upon them. No one
balance-sheet can show' how this time-payment land busi-
ness is panning out; almost everything depends on the
amount of the paper profit w'hich the co. sets down as
real profit—that is to say, on the provision which is made
for purchasers’ failure to complete their bargains, sup-
posing bad times happen along. The gross earnings for
the year are set down at £11,853 ; the average assets
amounted to £215,300, so that the gross return was siper
cent. As nearly one-third of the assets are advances,
w’hich no doubt give more than 5£ per cent., it looks as
though some of the other assets give a poor return ;
because included in the earnings are the profits from
sales, and sales ought to have been fairly numerous and
satisfactory during the past year. On-that basis, some of
the assets appear to be still over-valued. Some recent
balance-sheets can be summarised this way
1900. 1905. 1907. 1908.
Capital .. .. £75,176 £87,018 £89,348 £89,862
Deposits .. .. 50,689 37,460 43,341 41,966
Other liabilities 46,559 55,467 48,847 47,056
Advances, etc. .. 42,003 57,593 61,289 63,651
City properties .. 57,803 38,372 36,359 36,359
Other properties .. 106,314 119,898 116,154 113,708
Cash, balances, etc. 7,459 8,153 2,905 630
The liabilities total £89,052 ; so the paid capital exceeds
all the debts, and there are the reserves as an additional
security for the depositors, etc. Put in another wav,
even if the whole of the reserves were w'iped out, being
used to write down the value of the assets, there w'ould
still be more than 20s. of security for every 10s. of debt.
The depositors’ position therefore seems very secure. As
for the shareholders, they probably know' that they are
in a speculative business, and that the published figures,
especially as to any one year’s revenue and profits, are
very littie to go by. All they can hope for is that the
management will faithfully represent the trend of things ;
and, assuming that that work has been done faithfully,
they have every reason to feel good w'ith regard to the
past 10 years’ progress.
* * * *
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and Dairy
Produce Export Co. (Maoriland) :
Written To Re- Re-
Nov.. Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1899.. £10,484 8 p.c. = £4,356 £5500 £628 £6,920
1900.. 9,492 8„ „ 4,500 5000. 6,912
1901.. 9,151 8,, ~ 5,344 4000 6,719
Premiums on new shares .. .. 2,500 9,219
1902.. 11,610 8 p.c. = 6,000 5000 610 9,829
1903.. 12,213 8,, ~ 6,000 3500 2,713 12,542
Premiums on new shares .. .. 5,400 17,942
1904.. 2,315 4p.c.= 3,927 H^OO
Premiums on new shares ... .. 1,329 13,029
Profit.
1905.. 15,074
( 6 p.c. pref. 4,323 \
■j 4 „ ord. 4,345 /
6,406 19,435
1906.. 23,833
(6 ~ pref. 4,500 \
\8 „ ord. 8,694 J
10,639 30,074
1907.. 20.510
) 6 „ pref. 4,500 \
1 8 ~ ord. 8,698/
5000 2,612 32,686
1908.. 15,071 6 p.c. = 11,023 3500. 54s 03,Z04
Formed in 1882, this co. began in a comparatively modest
way, and its dividends averaged about 8 per cent, down
to the year when the foregoing list opens. Thereafter,
as the next comparison shows, the co. launched out :
1898. 1903. 1907. 1908.
Canital . ..£46,896 £98,620 £183,727 £183,727
Liabilities .. .. 48,594 90,192 104,542 112,007
Works, premises, etc. 85,234 175,540 274,509 282,654
S d&£) ent “ (16 . 5 . 8 1.370 5,345 8,492 2,363
Book debts ... •• 9,087 13,863 20,597 15,971
Stock • 8,033 15,005 23,914 32,791
CaS etc. I: .. Nil Nil 42 701
The present is therefore a very different proposition from
that of a few years back ; and the old dividend record is
nothing to go by. It is, of course, a speculative business,
yet probably less speculative than it used to be. There
was a time—it is not yet 20 years ago by a good bit—
when the squatter froze only his surplus stock ; he didn t
breed for freezing. Nowadays he does, with the result
that the supply is much more uniform than it used
to be, and in Maoriland it can easily be more
uniform than is possible in droughtier Australia.
But if the supply is steadier, the market still moves in a
mysterious way. From 1897 to 1903, the last year for
which the N.S.W. Statistical Registicr, has a quotation
for N S.W. frozen beef, the price moved between Is. 7d.
and 3s per stone. For mutton the return for 10 years has
ranged between Is. sd. and 3s. 2d. ; and for the last four
years the average top price has been on the down-grade—
which no doubt accounts for the steady fall in profits
since 1905. Liabilities have increased rapidly, yet not so
rapidly as the capital; £1 of capital had to safeguard
about £1 Is. of the public’s money in the business 10
years ao-o ; at present the proportion is £1 of capital to
12s. 6d.°of liabilities. The doubtful feature of the accounts
is-the allowance for depreciation. With works, machin-
ery plant and land lumped at £282,654, a visible total of
£3500 was written off last year—a little over 1£ per cent.
Probably renewals and replacements are paid for out of
revenue * even so, as much of the plant is new, and the
call for ’replacements should at present be light the
allowance for general wear and tear looks very small. If
it is smaller than it should be, then the profits are over-
stated. * # p
There are barrels of trouble brewing over Aus-
tralia’s explosives supply. For years Nobel’s people had
the run of the market, and put up a very good reputa-
tion for selling safe goods at a fair price. Then some
other people came in and badly undersold .Nobels.
Nobel’s said , they couldn’t understand how the other
neoDle did it, until it was found out that the other people
had been adding a trace of mercury, thus defeating the
only then known means of making the highly important
heat test. When the mercury trick was discovered the
fat was in the fire, the other people were biffed out, and
Nobel’s trot the market again. Then they said that,
having lost money through a trick they were en-
titled* to put up their prices. They did so, and
hinted at another rise. Then the big high-ex-
plosives users of Australia, headed by lialf-a-dosien
of the Broken Hill cos., opened: up negotiations with the
De Beer’s people, who have a nigger-labor explosives
factory in S’Africa. The negotiations ended up in these
big users making a five-years’ contract with.the nigger-
labor factory. The Broken Hill cos., it is understood,
have agreed to take 12,000 cases a year ; if they fail, the
De Beer’s people may terminate the contract. The Aus-
tralian Explosives people will need to look hard at those
shipments. The black-labor stuff hasn’t yet stood the
test of shipment, and it is in shipment that these high
explosives mostly go wrong. The S’African stuff is used
in .De Beer’s and other S’African mines. The butcher’s
bill there is tremendous ; but whether the quality of the
explosives is in any way responsible is uncertain. The
fact, however, that the butcher’s bill is big, and that this
is the explosive used, makes i t at least necessary to look hard
at the stuff when it comes off its voyage, and is put into
the hands of some tens of thousands of Australian miners
for use. And this is apart altogether from the black-labor
aspect of the question. Australia ought to be making its
own high explosives ; but if it isn’t making them, then it
is better to give the job to white men in a Glasgow’ factory
than to niggers in an African factory, owned by the crowd
which was mainly responsible for the Boer-war crime.
* ‘ * * *
There has been an extraordinary amount of bit-
terness over the various processes for getting' the zinc out
of the sulphides at Broken Hill and elsewhere. One
inventor, invited to the B. H. Club to talk things over
with a big man whose name w’as attached to another very
similar but later process, replied curtly that w’hen he
wanted to meet No. 2 he would know'where to find him —
eitherin gaol orin Hell. Another bitter quarrel has been
going on between what are generally known as the
Elmore people and the Cattermole people. The two
Elmores are old experimenters, w»ho have been working
at oil concentration for years ; their patents, now owned
by the British Ore Concentration Syndicate, are used by
the Zinc Corporation, while the Cattermole process,
owned by the Minerals Separation Co., is in use by the Sul-
phide Corporation. After a lot of preliminary sparring,
Elmore took Cattermole before Justice Neville, in July
last, for infringement of two patents (1898 and 1901).
Cattermole won. Then Elmore went on to the Court of
Appeal, where the Master of the Bolls sat with two Judges,
one of them being Fletcher Moulton, the big patent-law
map. According to a cable, which isn’t any too clear, El-
more wins this time. Cattermole, this Court thinks, may
use a thin oil (which be is doing), but on account of the
1901 patent it looks as though nobody else but Elmore
may use acid with w’ater, ore, and oil of any kind or in
any quantity. If so, there is trouble ahead for pretty
well all the other zinc-process people, provided, of course,
the Australian Courts think the same way as the Court
of Appeal, or provided again that the House of Lords
doesn’t knock out the Court, of Appeal.
If the lode at the 600 ft. level of the South
Blocks. Broken Hill, fell somewhat short of the manage-
ment’s expectations, it remains a fairly healthy young-
ster, for all that. The promise which the 440 ft. levil
gave of a widening in the south end has been borne out,
and, what is more, the vughy nature of the lode on the
footwall side of the level above has been continued on the
600 ft. level. The quality of the ore has also materially
improved. Pessimists shy at the fact that the lode
averages only 12ft. in width. But at neither end does it
show anv sign of contracting.
* *-:><■:. * -t%
The Mine Managers’ Association at Broken
Hill isn’t a happy family just now. The defection of the
British has further soured the milk. Not that the with-
drawal of the British is likely to make any difference to
the carrying out of the wages agreement. In
fact, it may be just as well that a mine that is
not working and does not contemplate doing
so should not sign the same agreement as those which
are working and intend to go on working. But, that
being so, what was the British doing a.t the conference?
There have been some warm things said on this subject;
but other members of the conference at least had the
means of knowing that the British representative was
present merely to watch proceedings and report to his
Board, and was not empowered to commit himself to
anythinsr.
J -* * * *
After nearly two years of struggling, the
Broken Hill Junction North mill has at length recorded
a week’s uninterrupted run of 144 hours. N 6 other mill
on the Barrier has given such persistent trouble; even
now’ its tendency to kick over the traces has not been
entirely rooted out. The electric pumps at the
bottom level have been nearly as bad. It is
doubtful whether a good Cornish lift would not have
served the purpose better. For a long time
past the “electrics” have not properly coped with the
water on the No. 11 level, to the inconvenience of the
men working thereabouts. Thanks to the installation of
a new’ mill engine (the old mill engine had to run the
pumps as well), better conditions now prevail; but an
auxiliary pump has had to be provided.
Broken Hill Junction North seems to drop in
for all the sweet ore contracts. It has just made another
for 12 months with a new buyer on terms which the rest
of them don’t seem able to approach.
* * * *
Development work at the Broken Hill Prop,
continues to tell the same dreary tale of departing
glory. The small bodies of ore located on the 1300 ft.
and'l4ooft. levels have seemingly been followed to
the end, and the end is bitter. When the ore was
almost lost sight of in the north drive on the 1300 ft.
level, it was thought to be coquetting ; so the foot-
wall was broken through to try to discover where
it was hiding. But the crosscut didn’t disclose enough
ore to fill Mr. Knox’s nailcan hat; and similar results
have followed operations southwards.
Block 14, Broken Hill, is going to shut down.
All through 1908 its sulphide mill has been idle ; now it
is going to also leave off rooting out its carbonates, on
the ground that it can’t get a satisfactory quotation for
them. So still another 150 to 170 men are thrown out.
*** v *
The annual report of Mount David (N.S.W.)
tells that practically all the profit on £11,962 worth of
gold has gone in developing the mine, sinking the new
shaft and improving the battery. The year started with
a credit balance of £666 and wound up with £740, so
Mount David has been steering close to the wind. In all,
4549 tons averaged about £2 a ton, and 3624 tons of tail-
ings nearly 7s. 6d.; but only 730 z. was got from 1/82
tons won from the open cut, and at that rate it will take
a long time to pay for the Huntingdon mill. The last
crushing of 440 tons for 2380 z. was well up to the average
and gave good profit; but the mine requires so muc h
expensive development that dividends will have to be
delayed.
* * * *
For the present, anyway, S. Australia isn’t to
have a State coal mine, after all: in the Leg. Council the
Bill authorising the purchase of Shedden’s property near
the East Greta and Abermain (N.S.W.) could only com-
mand five votes. It was fired at from all quarters: the
mine was in another State, the coal was too far from sea-
board, it was too deep, the price was too high, the carry-
ing quality W’as doubtful. And Anti-Sosh whooped for
the opposition on general Anti-Sosh principles.
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Co. of
Australia had a formal meeting 12 months ago, but the
first of any consequence took place in Sydney a day or
two back, when general manager Magnus reported
that all things were ready for a start with the new’
year. Walter Bussell Hall, the Mt. Morganaire—a man
who can talk easily in hundreds of thousands—was
chairman ; and it looks just that sort of co. Mount Mor-
gan is behind it, also F. H. Snow, who for years has been
Australian representative of the biggest foreign ore-
buyers. The paid share capital of the co. is £75,000 ; and
£lOO,OOO of debentures will be issued, though only
£50,000 has been called for so far. The plant
to the end of November had cost £117,198; total
expenditure has been £132,503. F. 11. Snow’s offices
look after the ore-buying: and already all sorts of gold,
copper, and silver-lead ore are coming in. The works
represent practically a new Australian industry, for
though Oobar has had its own electrolytic refinery for the
separation of gold and copper, there have been no
other works in Australia, and hitherto even Mt.
Morgan and Mt. Lvell have sent their blister copper
to America for treatment. Mt. Morgan didn’t like that:
for Mt. Morgan is the most thoroughly Australian big


Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL, ORE, WHEAT,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Belt Co.
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
Assayeks, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal'conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. ffm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * • -
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.* ,
* * * *
All philosophic works, and Holy Writ itself,
teem with warning of the uncertainty of life. Deaths by
natural causes have been pushed far down the years of
civilised life, but with the increase of that very civilisa-
tion the liability to accident has enormously increased.
The railway, the ferry, the tram, and the murderous
motor car inevitably cause thousands of people to place
their lives and limbs in the hands of entire strangers, of
whose ability they can have absolutely no knowledge. It
would seem, therefore, to be only common-sense to guard
against the financial consequences of misadventure by
taking out an accident and sickness policy with the South
British Insurance Company Limited ; £5OO Death, £3 per
week Accident and Sickness Compensation for £3 per
annum. Head Office forN.S.W. : 12 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney. Geo. H. Moore, Manager.*
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
The original ‘‘Balata” Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [3
■* » * *
The Scottish Critic, London, in its September,
1907, issue, comments upon the last Annual Report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society. Limited, as
follows:—“The Society has a record of successful busi-
ness extending from 1873, and the position and general
prospect never were better than they are at the present
time.”*
» • * »
Wherever iron of superior quality and excep-
tional tensile strength is required engineers specify the
famous best Yorkshire “ Farnley ” Iron. This iron is
made from refined pig iron, is puddled into practically
pure wrought iron, hammered and piled before- rolling.
Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, have been appointed sole agents for the Farnley
Iron Co., Ltd., Leeds, and hold representative stocks of
“Farnley” bars at their warehouses in Sydney and
Fremantle, W.A.*
* * * *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Roekbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated apd price.d in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Ciarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Hay market, Sydney.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison &Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ <Guide.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
• * ♦ ♦
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS.— Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
* * « »
Mather and Platt, of Manchester, received six
grand prizes at the Franco-British Exhibition, one award
being for their High Lift Turbine Pump. This highly-
efficient pump can work up to the highest capacities, and
is largely used for mines, town water supply, irrigation,
etc. A special feature of the pump is that its design
enables the conversion of velocity into pressure head to
be carried out in a more perfect manner than by any
other centrifugal pump, thereby greatly increasing its
efficiency and the height of lift. Gibson, Battle and Co.
Ltd., 7 Bent-street, Sydney, and 128 William-street,
Melbourne, who are sole agents for these pumps, will be
pleased to send catalogues to those interested.*
LOHMANN <SL COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables.
, Large Stocks always on Hand. -
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. LI
concern in Australia* It never imports anything, from a
general manager downwards, that it can get in Australia.
The Mt. Morgan supply will be the indispensable back-
bone of the works ; it is that certain supply which makes
the business possible. Mt. Lyell, however, hasn’t come
in yet, and on present appearances will continue to send
the gold-copper metal out of the Commonwealth for the
delicate process of refining.
* * * *
The Highland Mary, which turned out a very
fair quantity of gold in the old days of Swamp Oak
(N.S. W.), is to be given another trial after 10 years! idle-
ness. After the metal had been pretty well rooted out
down to 140 ft., the stuff running about 2oz. over the
plates as an average, an English co., the N.S.W. Gold-
fields, Ltd., took the mine in hand. The English co. put
on, as usual, a good deal of top hamper, sank an expensive
main shaft to 250 ft., put in a crosscut, and did a lot of
other work. It got a reef, of which a concern run on
more modest lines might have thought fairly well ; but it
was no good to this co., so other prospecting was
tried. A second reef was thus cut; it was richer, but
as it appeared to be making into the other, and as it was
too small to pay, driving on it was discontinued. The
shaft was then sunk to 355 ft., and some crosscutting was
done, but only a stringer was found. No attempt was
made on this level to get the second reef. The last 10ft.
of sinking is alleged to have been in softer county; the
present resurrection is on the strength of this, and in the
belief that, if the country is softer, the reefs will have a
better chance to live than they had in the intermediate
levels.
■fr * ■* *
For the year ended May 31 Hainault's report,
which has just wandered back to VVestralia from England,
is enough to set shareholders alight. At May, 1907, the
ore reserves were estimated at 240,000 tons of a recoverable
value of 275. During the succeeding year 68,000 tons
were extracted, so that, even if no more ore had been
developed, there should still remain 172,000 tons in sight.
But the reserves at May, 1908, are estimated at only
100,000 tons, with a value of 28s. gross instead of 275.
net, and nothing whatever is said about this (or the
previous) miscalculation, nor is any attempt made to
reconcile the two estimates. Other unsatisfactory
features about the report are the drop of 4s. 3d. per ton
in the gold yield as compared with the previous year’s
average, the entire absence of any reference to the main
shoot pitching south out of the property, and the
depressing fact that the accounts show a debit balance of
£8969. Ore reserves are alleged to have been considerably
swollen by encouraging developments since the year
closed ; but, although this assertion may be true, it is
bound to be largely discounted by reason of what has
already happened. Kalgoorlie mining ’may have a few
things to whoop about, but the past handling of the
Hainault is certainly not one of them.
* * * *
There have been some good developments
lately at Kalg orlie. The Lake View has sunk a winze
18ft. on 4Jft. of £5 10s. ore below 1900 f- The Persever-
ance has met better values at several points. The Horse-
shoe has cut a sdwt. lode west of the main workings at
2000 ft. And the South Kalgurli has opened up 30ft. of pay-
able ore at 1200 ft., and has found high-grade ore at 1600 ft.
Still, if a mine ought to have half of its market value in
sight, and even then have a sound look about the bottom
workings, nearly every one of the big Kalgoorlie mines is
over-valued at present, while most of the smaller ones
stand at highly speculative figures.
Announced that the monthly output of the Sons
of Gwalia (W. A.) is to be gradually increased from £18,500
to £20,500. Some good judges reckon that it ought to be
put up higher still, but 8., M. and Co., who boss the
show, think differently. For some time past the Gwalia
has been the pick of the firm’s western basket, and next
to the Ivanhoe, Boulder, Horseshoe, and perhaps the
Kalgurli, it is, on present showing, the best mine in
Groperland.
* * * *
Adelaide Register gushes over the prospects of
Norseman (W.A.) to a ridiculous extent in a recent article.
It believes that the Mararoa “ will eventually prove as
good as any mine in the West,” that Norseman is the
place to find a permanent supply of rich specimens, that
telluride will be found at Buldania, and that, with
“judicious expenditure and good management, the re-
sults from other mines should prove satisfactory.” This
looks like leg-pulling on the part of some market-rigger.
At the best, Mararoa will never be anything more than a
pocket edition of the Boulder or Ivanhoe ; specimens are
not strikingly plentiful at Norseman ; while the yarn
about telluride at Buldania is mere boom talk, since
there is no more reason to expect telluride at Buldania
than at 50 other places.
Donovan’s Find, near Southern Cross (W.A.),
looks promising. Since its discovery, 15 months ago,
1751 tons have been mined and milled for about £BOOO
worth of bullion. Ore averaging 3oz. for sft. was at the
latest being broken below 200 ft., and at this point the
reef looks permanent.
* * » *
Princess Royal (W.A.) has a lot to answer for.
AH other excuses for not coming up to expectations
having given out, the cry was recently raised that the
mine would have to close down on account of an insuf-
ficient water supply. Since then the Government has
remedied this failing, yet operations have been suspended
all the same. Ink and paper can’t adequately express the
contempt earned by some of the methods adopted in con-
nection with this pla3 r ed-out gambling counter.
* * * *
W.A. papers are at last getting the measure of
Pathway Hills. One warns people to be careful, another
advises them to look out, while a third goes the whole
hog and tells shareholders to get out. The Bulletin’s
faith in the official reports about this property always
was too w'eak to stand up.
The last call has brought down the value of
Victory United (W.A.) scrip to almost nothing, and the
prospect of the property ever being worked again by the
co. is considered remote in the West. It was thought
that Reidy’s leases would take up the running, but as
the option has been thrown up it looks as If the co. w'ere
about to pass in its checks.
Net results since the new copper era began at
Mt. Morgan (Q.): —•-
Net Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves.
May, 1905 .. £135,604 15 per cent. = £150,000 £18,772
„ 1906 .. 136,150 15 „ „ 150,000 4,922
„ 1907 .. 313,415 22| „ „ 225,000 93,337
„ 1908 .. 215,085. 22j „ „ 225,000 83,422
N0y.,1908 .. 107,847 20 ~ ~ 100,000 91,269
The past half-year’s dividends are at the rate of 20 per
cent, per annum. The amount W'ritten off for deprecia-
tion is £23,269, which is about the average, or a little
below it. Copper on hand is valued at £5O per ton for
the purposes of these accounts.
■* * * *
The recent record of the O.K. copper mine
(N.Q.):—
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Sept., 1906 .. £19,393 £35,432 £3lOl £35,806
Mar., 1907 .. 14,334 17,716 32,424
Sept., 1907 .. 38,204' Nil 4828 65,800
Mar., 1908 .. 13,266 17,716 61,350
Sept., 1908 .. 10,159 Nil 7329 64,180
This co., however, charges up so much for development
to capital account that the above figures are not worth
as much as they should be ; moreover, among the assets
is this item—“ Suspense account, Aron Hirsch and Sohn,
£10,654.” Writs have been flying between the co. and
the people who used to buy its ore : the co. says the firm
owes it £10,654 ; the firm says it has overpaid the co.
£20,358, which it wants back, plus £50,000 damages. So
far as liquid and semi-liquid assets are concerned, this is
the situation :
Sept.,’o7. Mar.,’oB. Sept.,’oB.
Copper on hand.. .. £14,082 £14,717 £7,500
Coke, timber, stores, etc. ]'3,943 16,695 12,100
Orp on hand .. .. 362 158 300
Cash ... .. .. 17,826 9,800
Total .. .. £46,213 £31,570 £29,700
Less debts .. .. 4,572 • 2,953 3,644
Surplus .. .. £41,641 £28,617 £26,056
Between Sept, 30, 1907, and March, 1908, £17,716 was
paid in dividend and duty. As to the past half-year, it
will be seen that the profit depends upon the co. being
able to sustain the claim against the Hirsches, and upon
the Hirsches failing utterly against the co. Actually,
though 1008 tons blister copper w'ere sold in the past six
months, the surplus of liquid and semi-liquid assets over
liabilities is £2500 less than it was when the half-year
srarted.J The rest of the money has gone into development,
and other non-liquid assets which mayor may nob earn
more than their cost. In the six months, 10,947
tons of ore were smelted. General-manager Shepherd
reports that “ the irregular shape and rapid fluctuations
in grade of the ore occurrences in this district make it
difficult to give an estimate of ore reserves which is
at once fair and safe. Assuming standard copper at £55
per ton, the visible tonnage of payable ore was 20,150 tons
on Sept. 30.”, Altogether the O.K. has been a remarkable
little mine ; from 1904, when first The Bulletin reported
its discovery, down to the end of last year, it paid £92,799
in dividends and provided about £40,000 for equipment.
But its future is very uncertain: as Richard Shepherd
says, the mine is in a district where the ore bodies are of
“ irregular shape and rapid fluctuation in grade.”
* * * *
Chairman Millican, at the Brilliant Freehold’s
half-yearly meeting iat Charters Towers, told the story of
hard times for 17 years. Working among freehold blocks
that carry mining rights has proved very expensive:
£55,740 out of shareholders’ pockets, £34,521 out of the
mine, and a percentage of tributors’ gold—in all nearly
£lOO,OOO-—has been spent in developing and working the
Brilliant reef. The straight shaft has been sunk 1256 ft.,
but a lot of work has been done on the underlie. The
shaft is now being deepened to open up the Day Dawn,
and the depth at which, the crosscut will be started de-
pends on the strike and dip of the reef. The trend of
the reef that split away a few feet back from the
face of No. 7 main level is north-easterly, and No. 6
hanging-wall reef has also a northerly bearing, so, after
all, some of these sections of the Day Dawn may junction
with the Brilliant. All the talk about the individuality
of the Day Dawn will subside if the levels are taken far
enough to the north to be close to the Brilliant. The
N. B. Freehold has much unexplored country, and pos-
sibly three parallel reefs, and the question of idernity
seems of more importance to the group of mines further
east. The last fortnightly crushing was 367 tons for
£1939, making with the previous lot 822 tons for £4034.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended (Charters Towers) is talking
of bi-monthly dividends of 6d.; but the show'has had a
long life and has only paidseven dividends (£43,750). The
last return w'as 4450 tons for £10,250, and the monthly
profit is estimated at £3374. If bi-monthly dividends are
paid out of returns like this, there will be mighty little to
add to the reserve ; and B. Extended, with deep ground
to prospect, requires a strong reserve just as urgently as
Mills’ United, which puts by so much money. A mine
with less than two years’ supply of ore in sight has to
keep prospecting, and that can’t be done for tuppence.
B. Extended is developing payable stone in the direction
of the Brilliant Deep’s boundary, so, in spite of the broken
ground in No. 2 West, which at first gave such sensa-
tional assays, backers of Deeps have plucked up hope.
The collapse of Deep shares and East Mexicans has
demoralised the Towers market, and the idea that the
Day Dawn is bearing northerly in the direction of the old
Brilliant Freehold workings isn’t comforting. Bonnie
Dundee’s last crushing averaged £5 3s. 6d., but the
quality is likely to vary. All the available stopes are
being worked for all they are worth, and it is expected
that 400 tons a month will be crushed.
» * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, cleaned up a
crushing of 1753 tons, and then swept up the plates, for
£15,982. After paying a Christmas div. of £30,000 there
will be a big cash reserve. Hard cash is a feature with
Mills’ United, and some of the shareholders will begin to
wonder what the cash is saved up for. Probably the
management has a better explanation than it would care
to make just now. There are numerous poor faces where
prospecting is being carried on ; and preparations are
being made to open up No. 14 East.
•* * * *
Cania, 100 miles from Gladstone (Q.), may some
day be a mineral field. Forty years ago good nuggets
were unearthed there, but little reefing has been done.
At Mount Rose a shaft has been sunk 110 ft., but work
was stopped for want of machinery. Rich pockets have
been found on this hill. The De Quiro (silver lead) is
owned by a syndicate from the Barcoo. The owners
have had exemption, but propose to get to work again.
A tunnel has been driven 120 ft., and a winze sunk
another 50ft. Some of the ore at grass is rich ; quantity
unknown. The field has no battery, so gold-getting is a
precarious business. Dry-blowing is carried on by Piele
and Webb on the top of a high hill, and they are averag-
ing half an oz. gold per day from three loads of dirt.
G. C. Wilcocks has a dredge working in the creek.
Gyrnpie and the Towers took the attention from this
field in its boom days, and since then only pockets and
rich leaders have been sought after ; and pig-rooting is
the order of things. The field has the attraction of a
good water supply, and the climate cannot be surpassed.
Eidsvold, about 70 miles away, is another defunct mining
area ; though lately some of the old workings have been
pumped out with a view to inspection.
Mt. Morgan (Q.), at the inquiry before the
special Board which followed the two recent disasters,
owned up to this shocking record during this year and
last:—
First week February, 1907: No. 2 chamber 750 (S.-E.
corner), 800 tons fell.
May, 1907 : No. 1 chamber, 750 level, 6000 tons.
June 27 : No. 1 chamber, 750 level (S.-E. corner), 1000
tons.
July 27, 1908: No. 2 chamber, 750 level (Ryan’s), 2800
tons.
August 2, 1908 : No. 1 chamber, 750 level (Dolan’s), 3000
tons.
September 5 : No. 1 chamber, 850 level, 1100 tons.
October 13: No. 1 chamber, 750 level (Oreagh’s), 800
tons.
October 30 : No. 1 chamber, 750 level (Dolan’s), 80 tons.
November 4 : No. 2 chamber, 750 level, 12,750 tons.
The only cheerful thing about this record is that the
co. not only owns up to it, but actually supplies the list
itself; and that can betaken as an indication that it
wants to do the fair thing, and doesn’t feel itself at all
bound to the system. The management probably sees
the chance of getting some of the way back into the good
graces of the working miners of Queensland. There was
a time when Mt. Morgan was reckoned a first-rate boss,
but gradually it has lost that reputation—and a reputa-
tion like that is a good asset to have ; for the difference
between the work of a good miner and a poor one is so
great that the co. which can command the good miners
has a big pull over the rest.
* * * *
There can be no question that, from a metal-
lurgical point of view, the present management of
Chillagoe (N.Q.) has knocked matters into a shipshape
condition. The ore supply from outside sources, how-
ever, is likely to be discouraged by the treatment men
get from the railway people. As a specific instance : A
miner, who had something over 50 tons of ore at the rail-
way, a few miles away from the smelters, repeatedly
requested trucks, was kept waiting a week, and then,
without notice of the arrival of the trucks, was ordered
to find labor to load the trucks in a few hours—in default,
demurrage. This is one of the reasons why the ore is
being secured by other firms and sent to the coast.
* * * *
H. L. Hancock, who followed liis father as
general manager of Wallaroo and Moonta copper mines
(S.A.), is back from looking at what the world is doing
in the way of big mining and copper-marketing. He
tries to speak hopefully of copper-market prospects, and
tells the familiar tale of probable railway electrification ;
but there were a few other things that he actually saw—
one place, for instance, where in the smelter sheds was a
store of copper concentrates awaiting treatment
estimated to contain 10,000 tons of recoverable copper.
In the Lake Superior copper region he went down the
Tamarack and Red Jacket. The former, a vertical shaft,
is over a mile deep, mostly under sea-level—the greatest
depth attained in the world. The Red Jacket shaft is
deeper—about 8000 ft. —but, as it is partly underlay, its
vertical depth isn’t equal to the Tamarack’s. H. L.
Hancock found it comparatively cool down there, or at
least, not as hot as he had expected ; but, owing to the
unusual atmospheric pressure, his unaccustomed ears
could only distinguish sounds imperfectly.
«' * * *
“ Val,” concerning the West Arm field, Northern
Territory: “ Yeast ”(B. 15/10/’08) is interesting, but not
accurate. Between the months of June and November
the water is not hard to control. The greatest handicap
is “slurry,” a white clay about the consistency of dough.
One shaft, on the Good Hope claim, had to be abandoned
on that account, notwithstanding that the shaft was fully
timbered, and an iron box was put in and screwed down
with jacks. The only way to contend with the
slurry is to work all round the clock, and even
then if you knock off for half an hour the work
of a week is undone. “Yeast’s” remark, “the deeper
the lode the better the tin,” is not founded on fact.
Hang-Gong’s claim, owned by a Chow who got £30,000
worth of tin in three years, did not go deeper than 15ft.
The Good Hope went 30ft. and apparently cut out; the
Comites claim went 20ft,, and the Mona and the
Northern Queen went between 30ft. and 40ft. No mine
on the Arm has gone deeper than 50ft. at the outside,
and the general opinion is that the shallower the
workings the better the tin. (This is not alluvial, but
reef.) The climate of West Arm will compare favorably
with that of any other part of Australia, It misses the
heat of the Riverinaand Darling districts (N.S. W.), the
scorching brickfielders of VVestralia, and the bushfires of
Victoria. A hot night is an exception, and every after-
noon brings a cool sea breeze. Those who complain that
it is not fit fora white man to live in are those with an axe
to grind. The axe is labelled “ John Chinaman.”
* * * *
New Jubilee is of the same type as the Old
Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), though the two shows are in no
way connected. The new has not done so very badly.
Against calls of £7400 is a set-off of £3OOO in divs. In
addition to calls, however, there has been an expenditure
of £10,200. That even £3OOO has been divided is due to
cheap work, 16s. 2£d. per ton covering all outlay. So far,
shallow makes have proved the most profitable. Atsooft.
310 ft. of driving has only disclosed the lode track. Share-
holders are told that sloping has been done “ off No. 1 and
No. 2 rises, and the material has been sent to
the mill.” Not a word to show the value of
tins stone, though it is the key to the claim.
Prospecting is being carried on everywhere. This shows
what scraping is being done to find stone before the exist-
ing short shoots are depleted. The co. treads too close on
the heels of profits, as no sooner is £l5OO in hand than out
pops a div. A little reversal of form, and out will pop a
call. So it is with most Victorian mining outside Bendigo.
* * * *
W. H. Quick is back in Melbourne from London
with a pea-green hat and suitd la mode. His color ought
to be true blue, like that of the Junction Dredge at Brignt,
to which he stands sponsor. That co. greets his return
with a record for the six months of his absence, divs.
having been paid at the rate of 65 per cent, per annum on
paid-up capital. The co. has two dredges, ladling up
about 320,000 cubic yards of dirt each half-year ; and the
average gold contents are 2T2 grains per cubic yard. This
isn’t much to boast about, but the per cent, return is
better than that of any quartz show in the State. The
Junction has a modest little capital of £9625, and
£ll6s. sd. per share has come out as profits. This fact
isn’t always being paraded, as is the case with some of
the Bright dredges.
V • * •
South New Moon, Bendigo, profits by having
built up a reserve during the time it was paying its
£400,000 of divs. The alluring feature of the co. is its
economy. Plugging away at shaft-sinking, and doing a
good footage of driving and rising, its mining costs,
nevertheless, only amount to a shade above 12s. per ton.
Battery work runs out at only 2s. 6d. per ton. This
allows, even on sdwt. dirt, odd Is. divs., and there are
several thousandsin hand to guard against contingencies.
That is the best of Bendigo. Its methods may not meet
with the approval of the swell mining engineer, but, as
old George Lansell always said, “ we get the most out
of the stone at the lowest cost, and what more can you
do?” Satisfactory, too, is the treatment of share-
holders with regard to news. There is a fair start and an
even course. No wonder Bendigo lasts while other fields
languish.
A couple of tin-mining balance-sheets serve to
remind that there is such a field as North-East Tasmania.
The Gladstone report comes to tell of wrecked hopes,
wrecked estimates and a stranded dredge. Dry weather
keeps the barge up theßingarooma River, so a ss. call is
the Christmas box to help it down to the Scotia Flat. If
recollection is not amiss, that is where work began and
where the boom busted. Yet the story now is that good
tin is there. If so, the management becomes' more 'mys-
terious than ever. Why was the ground left before the
run of tin Was exhausted? Still the local view
always was that the Scotia Flat had never been worked
properly. If the ground pans out all right, someone with
a stiff back will have to stand up against any div.-paying
until some money is saved to help on to another patch.
The other show is the South Mount Cameron, where a
fine plant and a big face of wash afe awaiting a flood to
clear the Ringarooma and sweep away the debt built up
during six months of comparative idleness.
* * * *
When the big Oriental Timber Corporation was
floated in Sydney last year to work some timber con-
cessions in Siberia, and The Bulletin said Siberia was a
long way off, and there was room for many accidents to
happen between Sydney and Vladivostock, some of the
promoters felt quite hurt about it, and wrote to that
effect. Some of the accidents have happened. There
was a lot more trouble about the rights and concessions
than had ever been anticipated, and to get in £75,000
more capital the co. is now offering 10 per cent, cumula-
tive preference, with the right to share in dividends over
10 per cent.
* * *
“Nix”: I note with interest Bulletin’s re-
marks re Metallurgist Opie, late of Mitchell River (N.Q.).
That yarn of “no ore” seems to kick with a previous re-
port, issued in the Northern Miner, of September 1,
1908. In that report shareholders were told that he had
obtained 270 tons of ore in driving and sinking, which,
when treated by the McArthur patent process, was going
to yield £2OOO (the exact figures were given in the report
above referred to). Let us even assume that this 270 tons
is the sum total of ore in the mine ; then, seeing that, the
plant is complete, is it not as well to get this £2OOO of
profit as to leave it lying on the dump ? If it were a ques-
tion of erecting machinery, then his attitude could be
explained. If the plant will do what he says it will, then
why not start it? It is of no use commenting on the
mine being of no value. He was sent out to demonstrate
the process, which he has failed to do. The question is,
why ? A few assays of the ore before treatment and
after would soon demonstrate the success or otherwise of
the plant. It should not matter to Mr. Opie whether the
co. had any more ore or not. I now learn that he is
closing up the mine he is managing in South Australia.
While Mr. Chas. Lowe was managing that mine, he freely
expressed the opinion that it had an excellent prospect;
and as he is a man with a reputation to lose, surely some
reliance could be placed on him. It seems that there is
a bright future ahead of Australian mining; but it can
only be attained when Australians appreciate the fact
that English “ experts ” are not necessarily Australian
miners.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
From 12/6 per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
typWW,
All Storekeepers.
VALENTINE A.
SOUL,
76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
RED CROSS
FILTERS.
PURE
WATER
MEANS
PERFECT
HEALTH.
Requires
very little
l attention,
and you
HAVE
PURE
CRYSTAL
WATER.
Post Free,
i-inch, 3/6
f-inch, 4/6
Tank, 4/6
POSTAL EDUCATION
BEARS GOOD FRUIT
High Salaries and splendid prospects are
opened up to those young men and women
who use rightly their spars evening hours
‘ in mastering our courses of Postal
Tuition. Besides all general educational
F subjects we teach by easy and simple
yet thorough methods i
- Bookkeeping, Business Penmanship and
Correspondence, Arithmetic, Shorthand,
Typewriting, etc.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, etc.
t«M tmm “ HOME STUDY.** Sml ft— mm a»»lle*tls»
STOTT HOARB’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
MOORE STREET. SVPNEV u
18
&
IS
tip
10
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Dandalup ” : “ Fitzwilliam ” (B.
26/11/’08) asks, “Is there anything in the theory
that a shark will not touch a blackfellow?” In
my opinion the theory is all bosh. I have re-
peatedly seen niggers tackled by sharks. A shark
will tackle anything when hungry. In support of
my statement allow me to produce the one-armed
nigger diver of Colombo, so well-known to tra-
vellers per mail steamer. This youth was assailed
by a solicitor of the deep some years ago, and
just managed to escape with his life. Hence the
absence of the arm. As to tackling Chows and
such like, if I was a shark I would strike anything
in the yellow line right off my menu. I’d be a
White Australian shark, or no shark at all.
“ Gilrooney Red-tape is a conscientious
and illogical piece of drapery at times. For
instance, the Broken Hill municipal council
recently received from the Forestry Department
in Sydney a request to prevent the “ringbarking
of good timber ”in the Barrier district. Imagine
the irony of preventing ringbarking on a desert
where it would be difficult to find a tree large
enough to provide shade for half a rabbit! lam
now anxiously awaiting another circular to the
council asking it to prevent the wanton destruction
of sperm whales.
“O,” his lie -
Queensland is neglected by the papers of Australia—
The Bulletin included.
I have been living at Wooroorooka for some years. It
is on the border of New South Wales, and the city of
Barringun is in that State, just over the fence. It’s
pretty hot here in the summer time, although visitors
from the Barcoo complain of the cold. The hottest time
of the year is a few weeks after Christmas. The Warrego
was never known to boil before 30th December, except in
1895, when it began to boil on 10th December. The
present summer promises to be unusually warm. A boy
rom Sydney was staying here. He went into the
Warrego for a swim the other day, but came out quickly,
and has since died.
A queer old hatter dwells near me. He is very fond of
eggs, and has a great crowd of pet hens. This is how he
prepares his dinner. He puts the bacon in the frying
pan, and places the pan in the shade of a tree to prevent
the bacon from being burnt. Then he calls out. “Any
of you girls about?” At the sound of his voice all the
hens that are ready to lay rush up to him cackling. He
selects two and says, “Lizzie and Kitty, it’s your
turn. Come along.” Lizzie and Kitty come up and
egg, and walk away pleased. The others slink away dis-
appointed. He breaks the eggs and puts them into the
pan, and in about half a minute they’re cooked. He
spoke to his girls one day as I was passing, but none of
them came forward. Then he called them by name, and
scolded them. Not one of them had an egg in her
possession. They looked shame-faced and crestfallen, and
blushed about the beak. Presently, however, two of
them brightened up, looked as if they had a new idea,
and cleared out towards the pub. In a few minutes they
returned triumphantly, accompanied by an old strange
speckled hen with feathers on her legs, and in less than
a minute the hatter was eating his egg.
Rabbits are fairly numerous in this neighborhood,
although travellers tell me that if I want to see real
rabbits I should go to Eulo. It’s very dangerous walking
about here, for you forget about the rabbits, and when
you step on one it wriggles, and you’re liable to fall and
meet with an accident. Five men had their legs broken
in this way during the last three weeks. I was walking
with my cattle-dog along a rabbit-proof fence about sft.
m height, on Tuesday last. Multitudes of rabbits
were grazing around. Something frightened them and
there was a panic. The fence stopped them and they
began to accumulate in layers. In less than five minutes
I found myself standing with a seething mass of rabbits
around me, up to my neck. If the fence had been a foot
higher I would have been suffocated. When the stratum
got level with the fence, the sight of the rabbits rushing
over reminded me of the water rushing over Niagara. I
lost my dog. He was choked by rabbits, and his dead
body was heaved up by rabbits underneath until the rush
of rabbits carried it over the fence. I found the dead but
faithful animal two miles away in N.S.W. It had been
washed all that way by the wave of rabbits.
If Wooroorooka was in N.S.W. and within a reasonable
distance of Sydney it would be an ideal site for the
Federal capital.
BRIEF.
SHE: “ Hallo , Bill! Watcher been doin' the last
six months? ”
BILL: “Six months!"
“Stony”: As to the imported aboriginalie,
admired for its simplicity by “ Hassan ” (3/12/’08),
a lie of this class has come my way in one of the
Filchit grablications, which I found in our fowl-
yard. Although not stated as such, the
aboriginalie is, of course, imported, since it
appears in a Filch it snippet-rag. The anecdote
lies thus : “ A very wealthy Society woman, who
gives both herself and her means largely to the
poor, was recently waited upon by her butler with
a rude package and a letter ‘ from a poor little
girl.’ The letter read : * Dere lady—i love you
so I worked and earned 2 pence to get you a eg
for a cristmus gift for you. It is the nisest thing
Ino to ete. It is a good eg.—Frum MARY.’
There was the ‘ good eg ’ well tied in brown
paper ! The woman burst into a flood of tears ”
—and fell on the eg’s neck and kissed it, prob’ly.
This ought to please “Hassan”—it’s a simple,
plain lie, all right!
WANTED, A
BROAD ESTIMATE.
VER FAR GONE: “Housh
(hie) time, of boy?”
MERRY : “’Bout ’leven ’clock.”
VERY FAR GONE (disgustedly): “ O shurrup!
Whash (hie) day of week?”
“ Edyson ” : In my collection of bush
cranks, Jock Hughes occupies a conspicuous posi-
tion. Jock, an old Sydneyside native, was a
successful sheep-breeder in a medium way of busi-
ness, and ran a model farm, but in one particular
he seemed to be as mad as they’re made. He had
a fairly-large dam in the cow paddock adjoining
his homestead, and on it he ran a cranky boat
patiently fabricated from the burnt trunk of a
hollow tree. With his absurd craft, that looked
like a pig trough of larger growth, went a small
sail and a large rudder. Running into the dam
was a pier about the size of an ordinary bush
stool, and built on the same lines. At the end of
it was a broom-handle flag pole, with a miniature
Union Jack. Hughes had built himself a stone
lighthouse, and had piled about it in the
water a cartload of rocks, which he called “ The
breakers.” The whole dam did not cover two-
thirds of an acre, but Jock always spoke
of it in the respectful language an ordinary
man applies to the Atlantic. At one time
Hughes must have dissipated in marine fiction,
and over-indulgence had set up salt water on the
brain. He always donned a sort of sailor suit
before going out on the heaving deep, and spoke
gravely of the lee side and the windward side, and
of dirty weather, and of the wind being “ sou’-
west” or “nor’-east,” and his crazy tub had
fo’castle and poop and bulwarks,.also a wheel and
an anchor and a jib-boom and mainmast, and
was a rakish craft of 5001 b. burthen. On fine
evenings Hughes would sit on the dam bank with
a telescope, watching for strange sails, or waiting
to see the sun sink in the billows. At other times he
would put off in his boat and employ long, desolate
hours fishing for yabbies with a bit of mutton on a
string. He never walked round the dam, and
more than once was dashed on “the breakers.”
One morning, after a wild night, Jock’s daughter
found that her father’s bed had not been slept in,
and on a search being made the old man was
found clinging to his overturned boat in the
middle of the dam. The anchor had fallen out
and tethered the punt, and Hughes had clung
there all night. He might easily have walked
ashore, but that would have outraged the tra-
ditions. This was Jock’s last voyage. He died a
month later of rheumatic fever, brought about by
exposure. In his will he directed that his body
was to be sewn in a sail and buried in mid-ocean,
with a round shot at its heels; but as mid-ocean
was much too shallow a burying place, Jock was
duly interred in the Pibrock cemetery.
* » * *
“Bill Outback” : Be the London Health’s
scientific information re a simple method of test-
ing suspected water, my mates and I have a
better plan. We take a hundred-gallon sample in
a galvanised iron tank, carried specially for the
purpose by each of us in turn. Into this we pub
4'7 bushels of wood-ash (gidyea or mulga pre-
ferred). I forgot to say that the testing tank has
three observation glass windows. The tank,
during the experiment, is protected from the
direct rays of the sun by a huge umbrella. A
handy fire keeps the temperature of the water ab
about 112° Centigrade for 10 hours. Within 60
hours organic matter and piano-particles are de-
tected by the appearance of curious globules of
opalescent hues. These are pricked with a
jewelled hat-pin. If the globes give off a smell
like that exuded by the Stinking Fish party,
the water is further dosed with ash and heated.
If the water is really bad ib bulges the western
side of the tank within a fortnight. Such water
is only fit for washing Afghans, and must not be
drunk by white men who want to live long.
During the testing period we do a perish, of
course; but we never drink bad water.
“Moorabinda” : Away back in the early
’eighties a traveller lost his way in the great
scrubland beyond the Dunlop Range (N.S.W.).
He could find no water ; he could find no station.
Perhaps he wandered round and round in a
circle, ever coming back with the weird
fatality of lost travellers to the same
spot—returning to his fate, like a
murderer to the scene of his
crime. Far and wide
stretched a stricken land.
The glare of a hard and
pitiless sky overhead,
the infinite vista of
saltbush, brigalow.
stay -a - while, and
mulga, the creeks
that w»re
only stretches
of stone, and
the monotony
of the shade-
less gums—
these only
met his eye.
To keep star-
vation back a
day, and to
quench hi s
thirst, he killed
his dying horse and
drank its blood. That
night, as the sun was
setting over the grey
bastions of mallee scrub,
a bound ary-rider found
him. But it was too
late; now he was cold,
never again to be warm
in a land of a thousand
furnaces. In his pockets
were ss. The boundary-rider took them, and at
the township to which he was going he
gave the ss. to a sundowner, for bush-
men are apt to be superstitious, and he
would not keep the money or spend it. The
sundowner was found on the plains, months after,
dead, in a clump of yellow wattles, and on him
were ss. The two stock-riders that found him
came to Grath, passed through it on foot, and
struck off to a station where they were to work.
They, too, were found—one hanging to an iron-
bark tree, the other dead beneath. The hanging
man had ss. on him. The man who found them
was a rouseabout for Lukes, the then king of
Grath. He became possessed of the ss. Lukes
advised him to throw the money into the river,
but he was a new hand with no superstitions, and
he went off next morning to carry a message to
the back-station, 20 miles away. But before he
got there the floods came, and he was never seen
again, nor any trace of him. He might be lost for
generations in a country where one man leased a
thousand square miles of land, and had but one
sheep to 10 acres. Where are those five
SHILLINGS ?
■* * * *
“Werrimee”: The rabbit is everywhere
and always. He came out with the first fleet. An
inventory of live stock, taken at Port Jackson on
May 1, 1788, included five rabbits, three of which
belonged to Governor Phillip, and two to Lieu-
tenant-Governor Ross. More were brought from
Capetown in 1791 by King, in the Gorgon. In
August, 1858, a case was tried in the Court of
Bequests of Parramatta, in which plaintiff claimed
damages for the destruction of 50 rabbits by two
dogs belonging to defendant. His warren was
situated near Ryde, and was partly enclosed by a
high fence and partly by a stone wall. The dogs
had got over the wall at night. A verdict was
entered for plaintiff, damages £5O. A quarter of
a century later anyone found harboring bunny
was heavily fined ; and before another quarter of
A PHYSIOGNOMICAL STUDY.
“Dear her ether en, let us rejoice in singing”
a century had passed squatters and settlers were
being prosecuted for not pursuing and killing the
pest continuously. Despite the ceaseless war,
despite a big export trade and fur market, he is a
lucky grazier to-day whose inventory does not
include five billion rabbits. He would be glad if
somebody’s dog would get over the fence and
destroy the lot.
A SONG OF CHRISTMAS IN TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yo-Ho there, my hearties !
Christmas-time on the lee bow !
Christmas-time !
The time of joy and jollity and jubilation and jamborees—
The time of the early uprising- of the sun and of the late
retreat to bed of the sated citizen—
The time when all (insect) things hum or buzz, and the
voice of the cicada is loud in the land —
The time of the visitation of bronzed and hairy persons
from far places—individuals primed with good reso-
lutions and an abiding faith in their own perspi-
cacity—
The time of the heaving-up-on-the-horizon of affable and
wealthy Uncles from Fiji and Guam, and of the
efflorescence of fortunate finders of immensely valu-
able gold rings—
The time when, by the sweet influence of the Pleiades
and the hilarity of the season, the Fortunate Finders
part with the aforesaid rings for an old somr, or
£2 10s. in cold cash—
The time when the majestic police-constables appear all
glorious without in dazzling duck trousers and
helmets like to the snow-capped Andes—
Christmas-Time !
The time when the sun, leaving the sombrous, cold, old
world, comes South to bathe in the Pacific and kiss
the wet and naked limbs of the young men and
maidens—
The time of Surf and other bathing, when the Righteous
shudder, and say “Shocking !" and “Shameful!'’
and go forth to gaze upon the Goodly Show—
The time when the Mayors and Meddlesome Matties of the
Marine Suburbs ponder and deliberate upon the
length and breadth and shape and color and texture
°f gay and giddy pantlets and Combinations—
Yea, even the Neck-to-Knee and the Next-to-Nothing
bathing costumes!
Christmas-Time !
The time of hot afternoons and blistering winds ; and of
burning beaches, blue seas, bronzed boys and blessed
southerlies—
The time of crowded streets and conglomerated trams,
and of congested shops, terrible and bright with
weird gifts and wonderful toys—
The time of the Golliwog, the Jumping Jim-Jam, the
Shivery Spider, and Ursus Eduardus, or the Teddy
Bear, a strange and foolish beast suffering from
chronic rheumatism or rigor mortis —
The time of the Terror of the Toyshops—
The time of the irruption of fearful and amazing Noises
and hideous Nightmares of sound—
The time of the season of Peace and Goodwill and Ger-
man Bands and German Sausage and elderly Prawns
and venerable Crayfish—
The time of mendacious and perspiring Dagoes, waving
dirty hands, with cries of “ Fri’ Feesh, won 1 ” and
“ Two large-a Pla’! ”
The time of the Cheerful Landlady and the Bashful
Boarder—
The time of the small stuffy room, the Kapok Bed, and
the glorious company of the Mosquitoes—
The time of the Genuine Norfolk Howard that walketh
by night, and in the morning is not—though, perad-
venture, if one is, and if he be displayed unto the
Cheerful Landlady’s gaze, she shall say :
“ Oh, my goodness ! What a horrid thing !
What is it } I never saw one in my house before 1
You MUST HAVE BROUGHT IT WITH YOU ! 1 ”
Whereupon the Crushed Boarder fleeth into the night—
or the Nearest Pub 1
Christmas time !
The time when the schools break up, and the trams and
ferry-boats break down, and the burglar breaks in
and T. Bent breaks forth into song—
The time of picnics and pleasure jaunts and school treats,
and large armfuls of lightly-clad Girl—
The time of Two Being Company, of Three Being a
Divorce Case, and of Four Being an Unlawful Assem-
blage or Pleasant Sunday Afternoon—
The time when the streets at night are one vast resplen-
dence filled with happy, careless, laughing, chatter-
ing, friendly, jolly people and much-squashed
Babies—
The time of cheers, fears, leers, seers, beers and remi-
niscences of old years—
The time when Virtue and Vice walk together in amity
and it takes a detective to say Which is Which—
The time when even Politicians cease from reviling, and
the Insects are at rest—all except Bent, who is bein«-
heartily walloped throughout 49 constituencies ! °
The time when the heart enlargeth, the liver hardeneth
the head swelleth, and the Boiled Owl singetli
nightly—
Christmas-time !
N.S.W.,
O. C. CABOT.


FOR EVERY EMERGENCY
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT.
4/- in the £ Discount
We are taking off all Solid Silver Goods this Christmas.
The slump in Metals has enabled us to make special
arrangements with the greatest and best manu-
facturers of England to sell their Silver products
at 20 per cent, discount off their English Whole-
sale Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions on all
our Silver Stock.
BUY WHILE SILVER IS LOW.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures
Cash.
23 Hunter Street.
:
mm
-r*
€5l
* * "ifiiif
Silver-Mounted Manicure Set of 8 Pieces, in
Handsome Case, 23/6 ; less 20%, 18/10.
From “ Oscar Weight,” of Gulgong
(N.S.W.): —
Mention is made (B. 3/12/’08) of “ some pretty big loads
of wool ” in Western Queensland, one of 12 tons being
drawn by a team of 38 horses. That would be quite a
modest load in these parts. Our record load this season
weighed a few pounds off 18 tons, and contained 110 bales
of Springridge wool, and was hauled to the railway by 14
horses. ’Twould be interesting to know the record load
for the continent.
But The Bulletin reckons that, if those 14 horses
had to drag 18 tons over 150 miles of West Queens-
land bush track, sandhill and creek, they would
be a bit weary in the last lap. Hence big-load
records aren’t of much account, anyway—the kind
of track the load has to be dragged over makes all
the difference.
• • * •
“Q.” : Henry Seaton, a walking-round-
the-world crank, is hoofing it from Brisbane to
Sydney. Seaton, who is 6ft. sin. long, is cir-
cumambulating the globe, he says, for the usual
silly wager. He is accompanied by a pair of
Indian clubs, and gives exhibitions of the
whirly art that has made Tom Burrows and
Jack Griffiths notorious, in order to rake in suffi-
cient cash to buy boots and tucker. It may in-
terest Bulletin correspondents who were re-
cently telling the untruth about long walks to
know that Seaton’s biggest day’s tramp is 56
miles. His average, however, is only 22 miles.
STRONG DISEASE, STRONG REMEDY.
A parson, discussing temperance methods at a Vic-
torian Anglican Synod meeting, the other day, suggested
that, as heavy drinkers are never lolly eaters, drunken-
ness might be cured by persistent consumption of sweets.
GENTLE INEBRIATE: “ M' dear young lady, they
tell me lollish ish cure for my complaint.
Will you pleash gi' me pen' orth o’ pep'mints? ”
A STRAY FROM SYDNEY.
THE SPONGE: “Devil of a place Melbourne. The beastly dust spoils the look of everything .”
“ Werrimee ” : The Halfway Hut stood on
top of a steep hill, a mile off the road, and at the
edge of a dense brigalow scrub. Seeing a buggy
and cart and a lot of poultry about, I reckoned I
was in luck’s way, for these things suggested a
married couple, and married couples on lonely
roads are generally good to travellers. About 49
dogs rushed at me. Three black gins ran out and
threw sticks and the scrubbing brush at them,
and a big fat gin chased them with a broom. The
baby toddled after her. She made a swipe at a
half-starved mongrel—and struck the baby across
its middle, and knocked it sprawling. She
dropped the broom and grabbed the babj up by
its legs. Then she performed a series of pirou-
ettes on a bare patch, and danced baby up
and down till its little bingy felt better. I accosted
the'eldest girl, a fine-made damsel of 16, black as
charcoal, but nat-
tily dressed, and
her glossy hair tied
with a yard and a
half of pink rib-
bon. “Is the boss
at home?” I in-
quired. “He’s
away ridin’,” she
answered. “ He’ll
be home sun-
down.” “Is the
missus at home?”
She looked towards
the big gin. That
lady stepped for-
ward. "‘l’m the
missus. You want
ter see me?” “Oh,
not particularly ! ”
I answered, taken
aback. “ I wished
to know if I could
camp here.” “No!
I don’t think my
’usban’ would like
it,” she replied.
“ You camp in the
scrub. Plenty fire-
wood keep you
war m.” “ I’d
rather be nearer
the water,” I said.
“ Any harm to
camp at the water-
hole?” “Oh, no!
My ’usban’ not
objek you camp
there.” As I was
turning away, a
young blackfellow
eventuated from
the brigalow quar-
ter, and I inquired
if he was the boss.
“Oh, no!” said
my lady of color.
“ Him only com-
mon rouseabout.
He work for my
’usban’.” “What is your husband?” I asked,
“ Him manager. All about dis station,” she said,
indicating half the universe with a sweep of her
arm, “ him manage it.” “ I see. He doesn’t want
another rouseabout, I suppose ? ” “0 tear, no 1
One plenty. Very slack time now.” About sun-
down Her husband called on me on his way home.
He was a full-blooded aboriginal, spotlessly clean,
his big bushy beard well combed, and his English
scholarly. Subsequently I heard him playing a
concertina. I met many like him afterwards in
that part of Queensland. His place, of course,
stfltirm • but the white manager at the
was an out-station , but the white manager at tne
head station—a palatial residence—was married
to an aboriginal woman, and all the sub-stations
were in charge of black married couples.
A RIVER SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bourke’s white and scattered house-tops fade
Like ghosts disturbed by day—
And we are bound for Adelaide,
Two thousand miles away !
We move between the high, brown banks,
From that old sunset town,
What time the engine strains and clanks
Because of Captain Brown.
The fussing, shallow paddles break
The water like a flail,
And up and down our whitened wake
The muddy ripples trail;
And someone on the lonely pier
Has waved a dumb farewell;
He knows the hates that brought us here,
And, knowing, will not tell.
But he could well this answer give,
If he would choose reply :
“ He comes to live the lives we live,
He comes to see us die ;
He comes to trudge the tracks we tread,
And ride the roads we ride —
And our rebellious star of red
Out West shall be his guide.”
An eagle flies above us now
(A mournful bird is he);
The wild ducks flap before our prow
With weird persistency.
And where the dark cool shadows span
The sun’s broad silver gleams,
A lonely, patient fisherman
For ever smokes and dreams!
But Bourke is very far away,
For Louth is at our prow.
And those we left behind us may
For others giggle now.
And lo ! we pass the red-clay banks.
Far, far from Sunset Town —
The engine strains, and throbs, and clanks
For good old Captain Brown !
n.s.w.
GILROONEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Doubtful: The suggestion isn’t that Burns is
an intellectual man, but he is a clever general in the ring.
Of course, no pug ever won a battle on fine ring-
generalship alone; but it is a powerful help...
J.G., also Data: Postage on Bulletin to England, Id.
for 4oz. and £d. every additional 2oz. (2£d.); Lone
Hand, ditto (3d.). The new regulation for news-
papers to U.K. is Boz. for Id., but newspapers weigh-
ing over Boz. are charged at old rate quoted above
W.: You write : “I have lost nearly all my music pupils
through illness, mainly caused by being constantly
worried by demands for money on the part of the
creditors of my husband, who ran away two years ago,
leaving back debts to the amount of £BO in the stores (I
being also a creditor of his to the extent of £2OO or more).
I take the liberty of acting on the advice of a gentleman
(phrenologist) who, on seeing this sketch depicting a little
experience of mine a week or so ago in connection with
the seizure of my sewing machine, told me to send the
same to you, saying that I could earn something by
writing funny bits for your paper.” The story is heart-
rending, and if The Bulletin were not a business proposi-
tion we would accept your verses and drawings. Things
being as they are, we have to turn the efforts down,
for they are awful. Put not your trust in phrenolo-
gists Graff Reinet (S’Africa): Don’t care for “Two
Gods”; other should suit a S’African paper Harry
B.: It were cruelty to the dead to print “Mates.”
John Mac : The affair was an advt., and if the advertiser
made a mistake about the location of some Perth build-
ing it probably won’t worry him much. Your local
papers must be short of matter when they are
reduced to writing lengthy pars, about a casual
error in an advt. published so far away
W.F. : “School Days" reads as though it was written
during the happy period you poetise about—a damning
trait in its character.,.. G. Odey : “Only a Grave” is a
sample of music-hall pathos. It is the wrong sort
A de R. 8.: The pathos of “Out of it” is forced.. ..Vigi-’
lans: The yarn “Is the Northern Territory healthy?’
is (almost word for word) Dr. Ramsay Smith’s
report of three years ago Brother Harry: “Xmas
Carols ” is seasonable. That is about the only
favorable comment- we can think -of in connection
with the poem..,.H. H. Probert: Certainly Jack
Johnson is an alien within the meaning of the Aliens
Restriction Act. The fact that he is a fellow-countryman
of Taft’s doesn’t exempt him. He wouldn’t be exempt even
if he was a fellow-countryman of Mahomet’s, w'ho was a
greater man than Taft... O’Donnell: “Plea for the
Native Bear ”is too long and so forth. The first and last
stanzas contain the {fist of it, and indicate its literary
style: ...
Search Creation’s whole wide range,
And you’ll surely not find there
A more inoffensive living thing
Than the Australian Native Bear.
Then let us with protecting hand
‘ Arise before it be too late
To save the few remaining Bears
From such a harsh, inhuman fate.
.. ..True Bill: Perhaps, perhaps not. A heap depends
on the student’s talent for making a lot out of a baton oi
necessarily vague hints Cecilia: You exploit t.n
drowning of a fly for all it is worth, but the subject
lacks vital interest V.R. : “ The Forest Guard is
long and vague and otherwise unsatisfactory—
“ The Simple Jackeroo ” does not jack it in thesei pages.
His metre is too ragged.. M.G. : Poem entitled ane
Tower of London ” and beginning:
Portentous pile !
By Thames’ margin set,
Majestic tower and battlement
In statu quo ;
Eight hundred centuries
Their course have spent,
Still —a monument to Shame —
Britain’s Bastile,
Dissembling fair,
Looms o’er the stream.
Convenient stream !
How oft hast thou conspired ?
is unsuitable A.S. : Goodish verse, poor subject—.
H.O. : Don’t care to deal with unknown people, whose
address is only “Post-office” some place....Jaysee :
Poem about William Wilks just missed the mark....
Cross Nibs : After much hesitation and a number of
false starts the story of Sipper was passed out Syd.
C. : “Poet” fell rather flat—fell horizontally on his
waistcoat, in fact N.B.McP.: Verses about an
intoxicated person crossing' the street didn’t make good.
The hero got run over or something W.L.D.:
“ Pebbles” hardly strong enough N.: “ When Phoebe
Sings ” is a nice little love-song, but the demand for nice
little love-songs is limited....Bata Vine: “Laid Up”
hovered in the balance awhile. Then it was laid 0ut....
R.H.J.C. : Your emendation from Wright’s Australaise
does no more than create idiocy where none was before.
...Tired Teddy: You have a humorous vein, but you
lack the craftsman’s touch... Reginald C. : You don’t
make your point plain enough, and your syntax is not
above reproach Tan Sara: It smacks of reality, but is
hardly well enough put together... .Mepho: Some grip
in it, but your spelling is shaky, and you use wondrous
English. A road, for instance, cannot “ start to descend.”
Nosille: Amusing in places, but not quite good
enough as a whole .A.S.: Well written and picturesque,
but intolerably prolix Drifter: Nothing in it.. ..Tar-
peena: Well enough versified ; but, as to its being “ A
Pug’s Prophecy,” the real pugs are all prophesying the
other way Talia : Too slight Bantam: Over-proof
in the matter of lusciousness Kenreagh : Lines “To
the Southern Cross ” do not appeal to us— A. A. Grace :
Good, but it’s a parody ; and a parody has to touch the
genius mark to get through.... Bill Bun : Two verses read
like the real thing—viz.:—
When a summer’s day is nearly o’er ;
For twenty miles you have taken the lead.
Dead beat, you stand outside the cookhouse door,
Begging from the cook a well-earned feed.
Say you get knocked back, as most tramps do,
After a man has tramped them twenty miles—
Bah ! if those lads and lassies only knew.
They know nothing of a bushman’s trials.
But even in these the anguish is overlaid and shifted by
criminal defects of style, and so forth. ...J.E.W.: Stanza
33 is the most telling in your poem entitled “Weary
Willie," viz.:
Lots of cheek,
Can’t go wrong,
Feelin’ weak,
Smellin’ strong.
But the verse-form you have chosen, and the vagueness
and prolixity of the work damn it.... M. 8.0. : Verses are
too saccharine, and illustrations of solitary pioneers,
standing at the doors of tents, gazing longingly toward
the mountains, are abhorrent to our unsentimental mind.
.... Miss J. H.: Frankly you are no poet, nor, by present
indications, will you ever be one Kaban : “The
Swaggie ” fails to convince. He, his “ blanket,” and his
“ billy,”suggest Blandolt more than the bush.. ..Venetia:
The pathos of the “ blighted rose ” leaves us unmoved.
A.D.B.: Nothing specially funny about that....
A.C.8.: You are a facile versifier, butnot much more
W.G.H.: No special faults and no special merits....
J.T.S.C.: There’s a good point in it, but you haven’t skill
enough Arno: It should be worth while trying again.
You didn’t fail by so very much this time D. 8.8.:
Some force, but not enough finish.... Thorold: “ Captain ”
would have been much better if more simply told.
The other is too hysterical....B.G.: Not worth a quarter
the space Vick H.: Rather pretty, but not very intel-
ligible.... Manero: Thanks; but the interest is rather
feeble Austra : Not bad, but a bit belated... .Gurley :
No doubt it is true, but that doesn’t make it interesting.
Olave A. : “A Double But” poor—merely disjointed
prose cut up into lines of unequal length. ~G. St. George :
In that sort of thing the style is everything ; and you:= is
very raw W. L. Kenton : “ Shadows Before ”is thin.
Schoolboy yarns are seldom other wise.... H.E.C.: Living-
ston Hopkins joined the Bulletin staff on February 10,
1883....J.G.G.: An unskilful variant on the yarn of the
Zenana Mission female who wrote to a Sydney newsagent
asking that “a clean Watchman should be sent to her
coffee palace every week for three months.”... .Benjhee :
“ Just So ” starts well and then fizzles out. That sort of
versicular barb needs an epigram or something in the end
to give it point A Snowy Bakerite : Your head wants
icing badly. This paper has the highest admiration for
Baker’s prowess —as an amateur. But when he takes the
floor against a pro.—and a heavyweight champion of the
world at that —at a time when the said champion is well-
nigh wound up for the biggest battle of his life, and
“Snowy ” (as you yourself note) is out of condition, it
were futile to discuss his performance seriously. It is safe
to say that there wasn’t a judge of boxing, from Baker
downwards, at the Stadium last week who didn’t realise
thatT. Burnscould have passed his opponent to the land of
dreams within a minute or less had he been so disposed—
G. : Still below the mark.... Con :We could do nothing
with that Tom E. : Ingenious, but futile and far-
fetched... .Will Park: Doesn’t suit us in the least....
H. Rowlan : It’s your first rhyme, is it? Better make it also
your last.. ..Summer: Hardly calls for print.. ..Thorold :
Yes, you are improving. “ His Way” is fairly effective.
Oder : Item re “Wild Cat ” that was “ blanky wild ”
on occasion, was a favorite aboriginality with Noah dur-
ing the big rain. The opening sentences of it in its
original form invariably drove Mrs. Noah blushing from
the menagerie, and on to the roof of the ark, where she
crouched, regardless of the damp, till the raconteur was
through.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Careunga : The “ tough shave for thrippence ” gag has
an ancient savor about it, and it isn’t wildly funny either.
A. Kson : Point old and blunted by much hard use...
Brad: Haven't the least idea what “The Mourners" is
about, but it doesn’t seem to be about anything interest-
ing H.C.K.: The only drawback about your drawings
is that you can’t draw.


We Are f\r too Aft"
to cotjee-rn ourselves
A* o«i~ rrjere rrgcess«ltes
£f £- tb forget" '
element's y^
wb'cb /c, Jc.Jc. 2 i
X)«dley}
~[l)e Cor«he t
Wt+b Holy Chost" Us “oh boArJ
rcA c *»a - .TKe i<t«A >s
\o bf "*>« of \
new rel«e*o*i **»
»S +o We^
We*
i7*vr -V;/'4
| v sfie«+-.i.-f:- r V»ell lf ) I ’ , ' <
li'.r 4,fje«~e
JxjfWeen "H)iS on 4 ( *9<
£ngV,lor» Specimen
ai effort* hiC boy £ \\\
eef r.a of 3h!e*1 s A
of Here's Some Arh
Pbotos ,ooK w be*» get"
"bwner*/ •
. jitiM/dTi
Ko vre a^nt”! VeVe
Holy rs % rolling «|*
+o "Ae Mee-h^£j^
I %%
■
I
1/e- •
The.
XT '
Dry y our levs , hfH you just" helb
b& c K %r~% en i'll you [Verier j
El*<?KZ~n
[lector:— " Wot"s»<Je
you Si'f” ?
C&»>4.<J2\te £ bei*>2 * *p <*f ® e ***
| svri* >fcgy»7e,
i I j}l<K>»n«»»g v
ml/m Cbcc K- %i fairly floored
H/tt ‘‘ S»de, 5° _.
lllw/ %
LWM^k
' Tlje old PiwbiH jbf'
was hot"
ovc.r
MOSTLY VICTORIAN ELECTIONS.


kaiser Bill is going to retrench. H 6
intends to sell five of his fifty castles.
With only 45 castles one is, of course,
comparatively homeless. This vyill el, d
in the Domain .or “ Unter den Linden,
or whatever else they call it in Cierman.
Xyo-
H
f/)
Spny'
,X\\s
TRYIN’ IT ON.
The Butletin (to Premier Wade):
Come out from under that
rig ; / know yer ! "
/\is Tl-
TT<i^
’FAMILIARITY BREEDS CONTEMPT.
TT-Witli apologies to G; A. Hills, pho.
PrivY Council
N,S.W. Premier Wade
still retains his passion,
for unlucky , litigation
(at the public expense).
The. British Privy Coun-
cil has just thrown him
out over the matter of
the famous two-headed
baby;
Wade: ‘‘Yah! Hit
someone yer own size.”
'■And the gourd rami
up over donah; and was
a. shadow over his head.
...And Jonah was ex-
ceeding , glad, of the
gourd.”— Jonah, h. 6.
CARTOONLETS.


Dentifr
There was once a young girl in Alsace,
Who had pimples all over her face ;
A cure long she sought,
Laxo-Tonic she bought,
Now of pimples you can’t find a trace.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
In the “Robur” Tea Co.’s calendar the
pictures selected for reproduction this vear are taken
from the National Gallery. They have been reproduced
so well that they are worth a better fate than to be
thrown away when the calendar has come to the end of
its usefulness. The Trustees of the Gallery are to be
commended for their good sense in putting no obstacles
in the way of the pictures being made available for the
purpose of copies being taken, so long as they are for
distribution to the people, free of charge. The “ Robur ”
Tea Co. distribute these calendars to their grocer cus-
tomers for free distribution to the public. Ask your
grocer for one of these calendars, as they are worthy of
preservation for their artistic merit. •
Mrs. Webber, Sharp Street, Geelong,
Vic., says : “Some time ago my storekeeper grfve
me a sample package of Chamberlain’s Tablets to
try, and I found them so effective that I bought a
box, and since that time have never been without
them in my home. When I have taken other
laxatives I have rioticed a tendency to become
constipated after discontinuing their use, but
there is nothing of that sort after taking
Chamberlain’s Tablets. They act naturally and
regulate the bowels. In fact, I look upon them as
my family doctor and never take any other medi-
cine of that kind.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Apropos Judges and pensions. There are
now four N.B.W. Supreme Court Judges on
pensions of £lB2O a year—M. H. Stephen, William
Owen, Gregory Walker, and W. J. (Water Jug)
Foster. The two latter retired after short service,
on the ground of ill-health. Mr. Foster has now
been in receipt of a pension for 14 years. Chief
Justice Darley will make the fifth pensioner, his
annual dole being £2450, which he takes with him
to spend amongst his ennobled kinsmen, the
XXX Guinnesses (Darley’s grandmother was a
sister of the original XXX brewer). The last
“Chief” who retired on pension, Alfred Stephen
(after 34 years’ service), bitterly complained that
he had only the pension of a puisne Judge, and
that he was unable to live upon it. The old man
had some unmarried
daughters and several
wealthy sons. It goes
without saying that he
did not want a meal,
and that there was no
big grocery bill owing
when he died.
THE VACANT CLOTHES AND BRASS
PLATE.
“Mr. James,” of S. M. Herald, goes on
a six months’ tour of the world. “ Mr. James’ ”
years are somewhere between 70 and 80, and he
proposes to lead a peaceful existence for the
balance of his days.
James Mirams, whom the Victorian boom
of 20 years ago swept out of Victorian politics, is
still a bustling citizen, who occasionally fires some
good Australian into the Age, for which he used
to write financial articles 30 years ago. The
ancient will be 70 on Jan. 2, when he hopes to
reckon up 10 married children and 20 grand-
children, which, by the way, is a better record in
children than in grandchildren. Concerning this
aspect of the case, Mr. Mirams might do worse
than issue a sort of pastoral, or encyclical, or
something else with Plain English in it on .1 an. 2.
John Halloway, of Spotswood (Vic.),
achieved a record of a sort the other day, by cele-
brating his 77th birthday, and his completion of
51 years’ continuous work as engine-driiver for
T. Robinson and Co., agricultural implement-
makers. Fifty-one years of firing, greasing,
oiling, and tightening-up the belting ! It doesn't
sound very cheerful; but the patriarch has at least
the satisfaction of knowing that he has been doing
something more for his country than the whirling
drummer whose business it is to visit a fresh town
every day in order to sell imported tape or
tooth-powder.
Mi’s. May Vivienne, whose ambition is to
write a big illustrated volume about each State—
she has tackled S.A., Westralia and Broken Hill
so far has got her book on “Sunny South Aus-
tralia ” into a second edition. But it will
never be as popular as the first, which
contained a misprint of the kind that book
catalogues describe as “curious.” The lady had
been driven out in a buggy to inspect a vineyard,
and it was a hot day, and the grapes were tempt-
ing, and she broke a commandment. Unfortu-
nately, in telling the story, she got mixed in her
commandments (aided therein by the fact that
different churches number them differently), and
she broke the seventh on that occasion !
That simple error sold a lot of copies of the book.
Thus “ Clarence O’Hagan ” :
S. M. Herald sets up a doleful howl, like a lost pup
suffering from nostalgia, because grumpy Gregory Wade
“ has booked his passage for the West, and has been
suffering from insomnia ” ! The miserable old lady (evi-
dently laboring under the delusion that Wade is Ma’s
Last Hope or Bulwark against Socialism) moans that
‘The Premier is under special stress. Everythinsr
centres upon him.” Exactly—that is the trouble. Wade,
who is almost a second Bent without that beauty’s
“comic” songs, imagines himself to be, and speaks and
acts as if he were, King, Queen; Governor, Parliament,
and Bottle-oh all in one. Not satisfied with helping
persons of the Carruthers type to steal wire-netting,
Wade takes upon himself the variegated jobs of (1)
guardian of public(house) morals, (2) chief cusser of the
Commonwealth, (3) gagger of free speech, (4) hopeless
appealer-at-law (at public expense), and (5) General
Blister on the peace and happiness of N.S.W.
No wonder he suffers from insomnia! A man who
spends his days in going through hopeless briefs against
Australia and his nights in Parliamentary sharp practice,
and any spare time he may have in stridulating about
imaginary “wrongs” and “woes,” must expect to find
that he has murdered sleep. And now that he is to go
West to conspire against the Commonwealth with the
wooden-headed Groper Premier, Newton Moore, S. M.
Herald shrieks that N.S.W. can’t afford to lose him for a
single day ; he is Indispensable, and the Constitution
will be wrecked, and things generally blithered if he goes !
If the brutal truth may be told, while Wade has got
insomnia (for which he is to be commiserated), the public
has got the hump over Wade and his narrow, ignorant,
insolent, bitter “ politics.” Wade can go a lot further
than Perth and few will weep. He may stay in Groper-
dom for the rest of his days if he likes, and sleep 14 hours
out of the 24, and 1,500,0000 f Ma’speople will not repine ;
in fact, about 1,499,999 of them would be dam glad. The
other one (theS. M. Herald) would soon get over it.
“Horse Marine ” writes :
Commander Jack Richardson, who now bosses the Aus-
tralian naval forces in Queensland, vice Colquhoun who
lost the number of his mess in Sydnev during Fleet week,
was one of the most popular men in the forces in Victoria.
Originally an officer in the P. and O. service, he
took a commission from the Victorian Government
when that State imported an infant navy and
torpedo flotilla years ago. He became a torpedo
expert, and was regarded as a valuable officer.
But for some reason not yet explained he was
retrenched in 1902, and, npt being a rich man,
he had to take what was offered him in the
shape of a temporary clerkship in the newly-
formed Federal electoral office. That didn’t
suit him worth a cent, and he didn’t suit it,
but he struggled along, learned type-
writing, studied the Electoral Act,‘and
fretted and fumed under the irritating
confinement and routine of a Govern-
ment office. Then at last he got back
into his beloved torpedo boats, and once
more was able to don the gold lace and
practise “ two steps and overboard ” on
the Cerberus in Hobson’s Bay. Now he is
happy in Bananaland waiting for a flood to
give him a chance of navigating the
Gayundah up into its old resting place
among the roses in the Brisbane Botanical Gardens.
The “ Oldest Inhabitant ” writes :
Of the barristers on the roll of the N.S.W. Supreme
Court, when the present Chief Justice Darley came to
Sydney in June, 1862, four, who never held a brief, are
still living—H. C. Dangar (1854), R. M. Fitzgerald (1860),
J. D. Cox (1862), W. A. Long (1862). Of those who had
been in practice there still remain M. H. Stephen (1860)
a retired Judge ; W. J. Foster(lBsB), alsoa retired Judge ;
G. B. Simpson (1858), still on the Bench ; Wm. Oweri
(1859), a retired Judge ; and J. E. Salomons, K.C.,
retired from practice.
“ Historicus ” : In an old copy of Sydney
Atlas, stored away in the Public Library, Mac-
quarie-street; I came upon a letter in the hand-
writing of the late Henry Parkes. It had prob-
ably been placed there as a bookmark and
forgotten. The letter acknowledges the kindness
of Edward Wise, who had lent Parkes certain
boqks. Edward Wise was the father of B. R.
Wise of to-day. He ranked as leader among the
small band of literary Australians of his time.
Before leaving England he had published a number
of volumes. His compilations on the law of riots and
the law of bankruptcy were highly esteemed. He
became Judge of N.S.W. Supreme Court in 1860,
but died about five years after. Mr. Wise was a
large and judicious book collector and an en-
thusiast for the diffusion of education among the
working classes. He presented a very fine collec-
tion of valuable works to Sydney Public Library.
SENATOR WALKER, OF N.S.W.
“ Harrison O.” complains :
The other day Edward VII. had a sneeze in his nose,
or something of the sort, and the stirring news was seized
on by the Cable Trust and sent out here : “ His Majesty
the King has for the past few days been suffering from a
slight cold, but is now recovering.” He then evidently
inhaled some camphor and put his feet in mustard and
water, for next day we were informed : “ The condition
of the King, who has been suffering from a cold, has so
far improved that his Majesty will to-day proceed from
London to Brighton. An official bulletin issued last
night stated that his Majesty is now much better, and
his journey from Norfolk to London has in no way exerted
a prejudicial effect upon him.” Then Ed. went for a
spin in a motor, and the tremendous happening was
chronicled by cable thus: “His Majesty the King, who is
visiting Sir Edward Sassoon, M.P., yesterday accompanied
his host in a motor ride for three hours.” Then next day,
the 12th, Edward had a perfectly beastly headache, and
the item was stretched out to this : “In view of the re-
ports that have been circulated during the past
few days, with regard to the health of his Majesty
the King, special interest attaches to an announce-
ment made in the Lancet, the well-known medi-
cal journal. The Lancet declares, on the best
authority, that the health of his Majesty gives no cause
for anxiety. He is recovering from an attack of neu-
ralgia.” During the next three days it would appear that
Ted managed to contract the ’flu, for on the 15th this
news was sent across many thousand miles of ocean :
“The influenza cold from which his Majesty the King
has recently been suffering, has now almost disappeared,
and his Majesty hopes to-day to be able to attend the
investiture ceremony, to be held at Buckingham Palace.”
Next day somebody noticed that His Nibs was looking a
bit white about the gills, so he rushed off and told the
Cable Trust people, who promptly enlightened the world
with the tremendous news that “His Majesty the King,
whose influenza cold has now almost disappeared, was
able yesterday to proceed from Brighton to London and
attend the investiture ceremony at Buckingham Palace.
His Majesty, it was observed, looks pale.” Truly, it is a
good thing we have the Cable Trust to inform usof these
stupendous happenings. It all reads like a sort of sausage
serial; I have only read up to the 16th of the month, but
fresh items will no doubt transpire day by day, and will
be continued in our next.
A correspondent, writing to a Sydney
morning paper re a name for the Austra-
lian capital, suggests that it should be called
“Hume,” and says that the Murray River
was originally named “The Hume,” after
the explorer’s father, “who was the first
Commissary-General of Australia.’’ This is
incorrect. The first Commissary-General was
Andrew Miller, and he was succeeded by John
Palmer. Andrew Hume was one of the
superintendents sent out by the British
Government. Governor Phillip despatched
him to Norfolk Island to grow flax. He suc-
ceeded some, and had a couple of “pieces
of cloath ” (sic) made; he may therefore be
described as the first flax-spinner. In 1792
Phillip permitted Hume to become a settler ;
he had a grant of 30 acres at Toongabbie,
where he was appointed Superintendent of
Live Stock, and looked after the delivery
of provisions. He lost his billet through
speculating in cattle. Andrew Hume signed
the address of welcome to Governor Bligh.
Major Johnston, when Acting-Governor,
re-appointed him as Superintendent of Live
Stock. He did not hold the billet long, for
Colonel Foveaux dismissed him “as un-
worthy by indications of dishonesty.”
Hamilton Hume, the explorer, was born
in Parramatta in 1797, and died at Yass in
1873.
By The Bulletin’s “ Oldest Inhabitant”:
Premier Janies Martin, in September, 1868, appointed
F. M. Darley to a seat in the Legislative Council. That
was done a month before the second Martin Ministry—
there were three Martin Ministries—ret red. There were
30 members then in the N.S.W. Uppish House, and of
them Thomas Holt, Henry Moore, Alexander Park, and
John Richardson were appointed on the same day.
Darley is the sole survivor of the 30. The Martin Ministry
that made the appointments has also unanimously passed
away. Of the Robertson Ministry that followed—the first
of three Robertson Ministries—only Julian Emanuel
Salomons, Darley’s temporary predecessor as C.J., sur-
vives. Darley has outlived his contemporaries by reason
of his active life; he never rode if he could walk. Of the
Legislative Assembly of 1868 there still remain J. F.
Burns, Ben Lee, and Samuel Lyons.
“L.E.” writes;
A new type of Go-
vernor is Thomas
Gibson - Carmichael,
of Victoria. His pre-
dominant note is
that of the Bush —
“weird expectancy.”
He is excellent when,
in his slow, sad,
•leepy Scotch way,
he half apologises for
assuming the r6le,
on the ground that
he hasn’t the faintest
idea what is expect-
ed of him. He is a
grateful contrast to
the conventional Go-
vernor who is fit
only to be a Gover-
nor. Not that he
will be a popular
Governor. He
wouldn’t shine at a
garden party, nor
please the ignorant
nincompoops wi t h
whom he is mainly
brought into con-
tact. He has nothing
of the fruity foolish-
ness of John Mad-
den, and it takes a
certain intelligence
to appreciate his
rare qualities. As a
speaker, though far
from fluent, he has
no equal here for
personality and
quaint humor. He
can say the wrong
thing (something he
wants to say, but
shouldn’t) and look
innocent at the same
time. At a haggis
supper Tam shocked
people by announc-
ing that he read The
Bulletin every
week, and found a
few things therein
that “ didna promise
sae badly ” for the
future of Australian
literature. He found
in them a plainness
and directness of
attack that were
almost Scottish. (All
{food things, from
bagpipes to architecture, from haggis to the constella-
tions, are Scottish.) I like Carmichael.
A SHORTER WAY.
The difficult problem presented by big estates had not
been overlooked. It must be solved. The interests of
the State demanded it, but the interests of the owners
should not unduly suffer. The scheme he proposed was
a gradual process of dissolving big estates, spread over
years.— Bent in his Budget statement.
Why not something that will act quickly and
settle the mattar?
A VICTORIAN ELECTIONS PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
Lord of the trackless sea and land,
Put out forthwith Thy mighty hand,
And cast from his exalted place
(That bears the stain of his disgrace)
The fatted bull whose ag6d face
Expresses to our common sense
The force of brazen impudence.
Bring him next week to utter grief.
And grant the groaning State relief.
Lord of the starry firmament.
Deliver us from Thomas Bent!
Disclose him to the Public sight
For what he is. Turn dark to light,
And pin the records of his shame,
Who hears a crooked sounding name,
Upon the breast of his ill-fame ;
That matrons stern, behind their fan,
May whisper, “ Oh ! the bad old man ! ”
And giddy girls may cry, “ My dear,
Just think of him as Premier! ”
Lord, ere the present month be spent,
Deliver us from Thomas Bent!
Ruler of all the things that are,
Hurl Tommy from his motor car,
And from the railway car ornate
Reserved for him by Mister Tait;
Let all his deals in real estate,
And what not, be at last laid bare
To catch the breeze and taint the air,
Until his friends, as well as foes,
Must sniff them with upturned nose,
And cry, disgusted by the scent:
“ Deliver us from Thomas Bent! ”
Prompt every voter on tire roll
To do his duty at the poll.
To help one cause bid all agree—
The Cause of Public Decency-
Ignoring, in this hour of need,
All Party claims and calls of Creed,
And aught which can dissension breed:
This is our prayer at morn and night—
“ Incline our hearts to do what’s right.
Lord of the coming Parliament,
Deliver us from Thomas Bent! ”
O.K.
BEAUTY AND BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His Ex., the G.-G., spoke at Ballarat on Monday upon
what may be called the practical value of a love of the
beautiful. . . . “ It is very desirable that such a taste should
be cultivated in our young people . . . surround them as
far as possible with things that are good to look upon, no
matter how plain and simple they may be.”— Arcus.
16/12/’OB. ’
• • • A “ bursting up ” land-tax and the other measures
which the Socialises propose in their attacks upon thrift
and enterprise. —Arcus, same issue, same column.
Save up your wages, Will-i-am, and pile your coppers high,
And tliis our hire-plan home will glow with beauty,
by-and-bye !
Reserve your weekly fourpence, Bill, the landlord leaves
you now,
And when you get to middle age, with sweat upon your
brow,
You’ll reap the guerdon of your thrift and noble enter-
prise
In beauteous things to soothe your soul and to delight
your eyes!
Plant every sixpence you can scare from off the tree of
trade,
And when you’re old and grey you’ll find your fortune’s
all but made !
You’ll find yourself surrounded by the luxuries they
lack
Who haven’t learnt, with all their toil, the fortune-raising
knack—
You’ll have five bob a year to spend upon a picture-frame,
And you will buy the oleograph to put inside the same.
Save up your coppers, Will-i-am, and vote for those you
know,
Who, with their nice, imported goods, will give the ’ome
a show !
And when, upon election day, you’re able to assist
Your betters, Bill—don’t be a fierce and grasping Socalist 1
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


y
y
I
\
m
m
m
'
m
pSy
m
m
turn
■
■
-s fZ
m
m
fctu '3ar&
The Champion Sculler
succumbs to tbe soothing
seductions of
CHAMPION Tobacco.
[NATURAL FLAVOR, CUT OR PLUG.]
RICHARD ARNST, who defeated William Webb for the Sculling Championship of the World on the Wanganui River, New Zealand.


Chamberlain’s Colic,. Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy is the most successful medicine in the
world for bowel complaints, both for adults and
children. Pleasant and safe to take, prompt in
its action, and effectual in results,*
Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden. Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods IVEade to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
There was a young- man at Gladesville,
Who folks said was incurably ill;
Hut he’s now well and sound,
Here’s the cure that he found—
Laxo-Tonic— a wonderful pill.
IVA fTAMrn nrr rr. , . i 1 , - .
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other .Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
.53/- per Halt-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia. .
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Ordinary ability plus a good memory makes
success, and half-an-hour daily for six weeks will perfect
your memory. The Pelman System is the natural one,
easily and quickly acquired, permanent benefits, simple
and very interesting. Taught by post. Write, Pelman
School of Memory, 3 Stock Exchange Bldgs., Melbourne.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by.G. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through Thk Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirniess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
WILLIAMS
£
INK
ILLS
ateeaBuUxiCA"«tt£'JZls!iti
The Pills That Cure
RHEUMATISM
That rheumatism can be cured by the use of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills is evidenced by the case of
Mrs.'S. M. Bussell, 21 Woodburn Street, Red-
fern, Sydney. She says:—
“I had an attack of rheumatic fever, and after
it rheumatism set in in both legs. I'd have it for
three or four weeks, then I’d get a spell and it
would come on again. I had two stays at the
Little Bay Hospital. They patched me up but
it always came on again. I’d have to lay up
whenever an attack came on. I couldn’t stand.
The house would have to look after itself. My
legs would be swollen and all inflamed. I couldn’t
bear anyone near me. The shooting, burning
pains were agonising. I tried all sorts of lini-
ments and poultices. I couldn’t move in bed with
it. Sometimes the darting pains would go up in-
to my arms till I was crazed with it, and often I
couldn’t lift my arms to do the slightest thing,
such as my hair or dress myself. I couldn’t close
my eyes at night with the agony. I’d feel as if I
were being torn to pieces and would moan with
the pain After suffering like this for years a
friend told me how good Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
were for rheumatism, so I thought that I would
try them. The second box eased me a little, and
the third did me a lot of good. After the fourth
box every ache had vanished. Now my health is
very good.”
Dr. “Williams’
PINK PILLS
2/9 per box ; 6 l oxes 15/3 at all chemists and
storekeepers, or from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
This Elastic Truss
n
Elastic
Truss-
Sinple, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
ALSO AT MhLBOURNK.
POLITICAL
POINTS
JUST' GOT INI
The Australian Parliament has been formally
prorogued till January 27 , 1909.
Since 1901 Iluperfc Clarke has sold 35,740
acres of the land at.Sunbury (Vic.) which “Big”
Clarke annexed, bit by bit." Altogether the land
sold has realised some £210,000, and 1000 souls
now dwell thereon in place of the faint smattering
of humanity that used to make a living out of the
run. So far. so good ; but without a graduated
R*jd Gx to keep the big estate broken up, other
“ Big” Clarkes will presently accumulate this or
other estates, and jiass them on to their sons, so
that they may collar the unearned increment once
again.
It may be the hot weather, or it may be
something else, but Queensland Ministries always
have had the habit of running into one another.
Ihe Herbert Ministry (Queensland’s No. 1)
merged into the Macalister (No. 2). Then
er bert, whose Ministry had merged into
Macalister’s, formed No. 3. Next Herbert’s
second Ministry merged into another
Macahster Ministry (No. 4). Followed
the Mackenzie Ministry (No. 5), Mac-
kenzie having been Herbert’s Treasur-
er. Lilley followed (No. 6), with
Hodgson out of Mackenzie’s Ministry
(INo. o), Macahster (No. 2 and 4),
and Pring (No. 1 and 3). Palmer
(No. 7 Ministry) had been in
AT a K • Kn 4~ 4- 1 - - j l n
iNo. 5; but this was the first
Queensland Ministry that
didn’t consist partly of its
immediate predecessor.
Macalister’s (No. 8) fol-
lowed ; that merged
into Thorn’s (No. 9);
and Thorn’s merged
into the Douglas lot (No.
10) Mcllwraith’s (No.
11) was a bit different;
it didn’t have any of its
predecessors in it, nor
did Griffith’s (No. 12).
Morehead’s (No. 14) was
mostly Mcllwraith’s (No.
13), with Mcllwraith as
honorary Minister. Then
Griffith (No. 15) swept up
all the remnants—bits from
Nos. 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and
14. Gr i ffi t h (No. 15)
merged into Mcllwraith
(No. 16), and Mcllwraith
(No. 16), merged into Nel-
son (No. 17)—and so right
along till Andy Dawson
(No. 20) arrived for six
days in 1899. Previous to
Dawson there had only
three times been a Minis-
try which hadn’t consisted
partly of the Ministry which it was supposed to
have turned out of office.
It begins to dawn upon the understand-
of the Victorian public that Gov. Gibson-
Garmichael probably consulted John Madden
before taking upon himself to grant Bent a disso-
lution of the State Parliament. The effusively
loyal owner of the waxed lip-hair is an undis-
guised Tory, and as such he naturally doesn’t
disapprove of the awful Bent. Mioreover Mhr-
ray it is understood, thwarted Madden ’in his
application for 12 months’ leave of absence when
he made it awhile ago. Should Bent get back to
the Premiership through the dissolution that Gov.
Garmichael granted after consulting Madden the
latter may be expected to get his leave of absence
without further delay. Which is not to say that
the somewhat hard-worked gentleman doesn’t
really need a holiday.
One of the last episodes in the late
Victorian Assembly, before it came to a dis-
creditable end, was Murray, M.L.A., on new
Minister Downward. Said Murray :
Would you tell the House about your getting- the
Country party to postpone action, so that vou might
carry the party solidly against the Governmen’t after the
budget-speech ?
sai( f that this question caused a “ sensa-
tion in the House. But it didn’t appear to
worry Downward. This well-named gentleman
assured the House, with the coolness of an ice-
chest, that he was strongly against the Govern-
ment, and voted against allowing it to recon-
struct until he was offered a portfolio. Then
Ins views changed, and he is now a fierce defender
of the Bent Ministry. It is a good many years
since political morality has been at such a low ebb
khe desire to make away with
the Bent-tainted institution by the adoption of
the Unification and Reconstruction policy grows
stronger every day. B
The Maoriland Government is
listening hard to anybody who fean tell
it a tale of how to raise the wind.
Lately a farm-seller and financier
struck something new and gorgeous in
t r e rT ay of ideas - R'S plan is that
the Government should invite English
capitalists, small and otherwise, to
send out to the Public Trustee sums
of not less than £SOO for investment
at 4 per cent, net—the Trustee being
“a corporation sole with a seal of
office and perpetual succession, and
whose integrity is guaranteed by the
State.” Joe Ward wolfed the idea; a
confidence-trick man doesn’t love a
new “pitch” better than Joe Ward
loves anew way of coming at the shy
lender. And presumably the “sums
of not less than £500” which Joe
Ward doesn’t want will be put into
lands and things, which the bright
originator of the scheme probably has
some hopes of selling to the Govern-
ment or any other old party.
Victoria s Attorney-General Davies is
showing a vast possession of worldly wisdom
during the present scuffle. He hasn’t, of course
to go before the electors yet awhile, but he has so
far taken the best of care not to help a hard-
pressed colleague on the platform. He has made
no explanations or excuses, neither has he given
his version, nor has he rounded on his colleagues
or abused the Opposition.' He just lets anyone
else take the blame who wants to, and “lays low
and says miffin’.” In the art of “ layin’ low and
say in miffin’ ’ no one can come near solicitor
Davies, the brother of Matthew.
It is characteristic of the amazing muddle
of Victorian politics that Swinburne stiinds in the
Government interest (Bent being the head of the
Government and pretty nearly the whole Govern-
mens), yet Swinburne says that he won’t take
office in a Ministry of which the awful Bent is
Brenner, and he won’t take office in a Ministry
whereof Bent is even a subordinate member. In
fact, he won’t personally touch Bent with a long
pole. And still he is a Bent candidate urging the
State to return a majority in favor of the Bent
Government. This shows a nice discrimination
on the part of Swinburne.
It is reckoned that the population of the
Commonwealth at the close of this year will he
4,278,000. That means that in eight years of
Federation the population has increased
by 503,000. And 251,000 of the in-
crease, or half the total, has been in
JN.b.W. Apparently the down-
trodden Ma State has made as
much profit out of Federa-
tion as all the other five
States put together.
THE RESURRECTION OF ANTI.
The disruption of the party threatens to place the
balance of power in the hands of the Socialists Every
effort must be made to bring- the Anti-Socialists together
once more. —Argus scream in the interests of Bent.
ARGUS: “ Come out of your box, Anti; you're
wanted! Regarded as a policy you're a poor
thing, but we've got no better.”
“Stony”: Malvern is one of the Mel-
bourne suburbs which helped to put poor, lonely,
high-principled Norman Ba.yles into Pawliament’
The other evening there was an open-air concert
in the Malvern cricket ground—move-on pictures,
brass bands, cosy corners and so forth, with an
any-sort-of-coin collection at the entrance-gate.
One solitary, gorgeous motor-car called to take its
owner to the entertainment, and the name of, that
owner can be guessed in one cry. The elections
are at hand, and the results are doubtful, and a
great man will go even to a dog fight these days,
and be affable to both dogs if they happen to come
from his electorate.
Despite the prodigious babble of Bent and
Co. about their attention to educational require-
ments in Victoria, items like this walk daily
through the papers like a procession of insanitary
ghosts
The present schoolroom measures 24ft. by 16ft., ex-
clusive of a wretched lean-to. There are 65 children on
the roll, with an average attendance of 58. The con-
ditions are most unhealthy, and in hot weather involve
positive cruelty to the children. Over nine months ago
the Department authorised the erection of a new school,
but, up to the present, nothing has been done.
It is always “nothing has been done ’’—unless it
is a job or a tram line. Then almost everything
has been done.
If only half the things alleged aWit Bent’s
land dealings are true, the Commission of In-
quiry which the new Parliament must appoint
will have to say some very severe things, if it
does its duty. Murray, M.L. A., said lately that
Bent had been interested in the Maribyrnong
estate, afterwards traded off to the State; and
that he had been similarly interested in the still-
unused Thornbury brick-land. Watt, M.L.A.,
stated on the platform that the Brighton 25 acres]
which Bent is now trying to sell at a big advance
owing to the State-built tram-line running through
it, are not the only paddocks he owns down that
way, and that the Elwood canal might reasonably
have been expected to improve the value of Bent's
private property. The canal, however, has
proved such a failure that nobody will look at
either the State’s or Bent’s land there, but that
wasn’t what was expected. Bent brags of having
paid off his boom liabilities ; but if Peter has been
levied upon to pay Paul. Peter’s views about the
transaction ought to be worth hearing.
Victorian Premier Bent is reaching out
every tentacle he has for votes. Here is a con-
densed list of his promises :
To railway servants : Improved conditions and accom-
modation.
To farmers: New railways ; more land ; £600,000 of
borrowed money to provide increased irrigation, the cash
to he advanced to the local bodies.
To settlers : Abolition of the loading of Crown lands ;
deferred payments spread over 40 years without interest. ’
To landowners : That their big estates won’t be inter-
fered with for years, if at all; and that there shall be no
land-tax.
To miners : Wages Boards, and loans to mining com-
panies.
To the unemployed : Railwa3’s and a vigorous system
of public works.
To the municipalities : More grants.
To Prospectors, Fossickers, etc. : Amendment of the
Gold Buyers Act (Bent’s own recent Act).
To School Teachers: Improved accommodation and
salaries.
To Parents: Improved educational facilities, extra
scholarships, etc.
To the Seripture-in-Schools crowd : A Bible-in-Sehools
Referendum.
To the States Frights crowd : A determination to fight
for State Frights, and the submission of the Murray
Waters agreementand Victorian-S. A. boundary dispute to
inquiry by a .Royal Commission.
To People in General: No new taxes and reduction of
some old ones.
To the Community at Large : That he will get them a
gallon of beer out of a pint pot.
A wonderful promiser is T. Bent.
In four years Bent had about £3,500,000
more revenue than his predecessors. He reduced
the Vie. unfunded debt by £1,700,000, but in-
creased the funded debt by £1,285,000 ; so that he
actually paid off £415,000 out of the £3,500,000 he
had to play with. With the balance—well, he
bought some land.
The strongest condemnation of the Bent
Government’s policy so far offered has been sup-
plied by Mines Minister McLeod, the only Lower
House Minister who was with Adolphus right
through the chapter. He chortles proudly that
the price of country land in Victoria is 30 per
cent, higher than when the Bent Government
began its boom policy, five years back. That is
to say, Bent and co. have made it even more
difficult for genuine settlers to get on the land
than before they started their hypocritical schemes
of closer settlement.
THE RE-CHRISTENING OF YASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is early to speak of the matter, but it has been
broached and I now venture to suggest that the capital
be called after the King. It would honor the head of the
Empire and the leading man on this planet to-day. His-
tory will not forget Edward the Peacemaker.
If the plain name of “ Edward ” would not do, but we
should soon become accustomed to it—l suggest that a
word be framed in which it should be the groundwork.
“ Edwardia ” has occurred to me, but that could doubt-
less be improved upon.— F. B. Boyce in the Sydney daily
papers.
And why “ Edwardia,” Mr. Boyce?
It seems so short,
So commonplace.
It were a tort
Against the race
That we should pass
This golden chance
To re-name Yass.
But let’s enhance
The township’s mana by our choice.
“Saxe-Ooburg-Gothaville,” I think
Should meet the case.
’Twill both suggest
The Guelphic race
And swift arrest
The roving eye
Of ev’ry wight
Who journeys by
By day or night;
Be he stone sober, or in drink.
“Odalisque City ” also ; and
“ Poker-town,” “ Race-
Burg,” “ Dry champagne,”
Are all in place.'
The dullest brain
Must comprehend
How apposite
They are. They lend
Unto the site
A regaPsavor, courtly, grand.
What’s that ? These names are too ornate,
And inappro-
priate to such
A paltry show
AsYassis; much
As they appeal
To him who, aye
Loving and leal,
Hankers to pay
Respect to monarch, site and State ?
Possibly so. Then am I led
To urge a style
Meet, loyal, brief;
No mighty pile
Of words that grief
Shall bring to those
In whom a sense
Of humor glows;
No name immense ;
But one whose length,
Width, depth and mass
Bespeaks the strength
Entire of Yass..
Hold tight! My final choice is “Ned.”
N.B.W.
SINGEMOINE.
THE INVERSE RATIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the last seven years the strength of the military
forces in the Commonwealth has been reduced from
29,069 to 22,631, while the cost of administration has in-
creased from £48,543 to £58,084,- —News Item.
We should not object to paying for defence ; but I confess,
With expenditure increasing and the forces growing less.
One is apt to pause in wonder and bewilderment, my son,
As to what is like to happen if this sort of thing goes on !
If is worth owning it is worth defending
Is an obvious proposition no sane man will cavil at!
’Tis a kind of life assurance, or a form of guarantee,
And to pay the needful premiums we should cheerfully
agree!
Yet ’tis not alone a matter of incurring large expense,
For the first and primal object is an adequate defence !
That, of course, we’ll have to pay for, as I think I said
before,
And there’ll be no sense in grumbling if it costs a great
deal more !
But, supposing each Nine Thousand (of increased ex-
pense) or Ten
Means a corresponding decrease of some Seven Thousand
(men),
In a geometric ratio of concurrent rise and fall
HOW MUCH WILL OUR ARMY COST US WHEN WE HAVE NO MEN
AT ALL?
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


;
J£SyOINV.
• . '
j#
n 4 '•••.
.
MADE specially for vis, BELLING
PIANOS are exceptionally good
value at the price charged for
them.
& JZ?
They are grand wear resisters, and
will stand any climate.
JZ?
For over 30 years we have been
selling them, and have received
hundreds of letters from satis-
fied customers, expressing their
delight with the way the Pianos
have stood years of hard worK.
They are sold fully guaranteed,
and on Easy Terms if desired.
»l< -0<- ■ " .
Write to us for Catalogue. We
shall send it by return of post
(free).
SOLE
AGENTS
W H. PALING <& CO. LTD.
338 Georg'e Street, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane CSi Newcastle.
Business Suits
Country &Towrv Wear.
Best Value
m
Australia
J
m
I
#
flf%
i
i
w
0
Write Patterns
and
Self Measurement
Forms.
Cut, Style & Finish,o/ High Standard.
BUCKLEYfcNUNN L™
Bourke Sr Melbourne .
mn
Java-Australia Line
OF THE
ROYAL DUTCH PACKET COMPANY.
Full-powered, modern passenger Steamers, specially built and equipped
for voyaging in the Tropics.
An ideal pleasure trip—smooth water everywhere, -via Torres Straits.
Splendid scenery throughout the voyage. Electric Lights and Fans installed.
First and Steerage passengers carried. \
All modern conveniences. English spoken on board. English
Stewardess carried. L ..
"T"
Steamers will be despatched from Sydney as follows:
5.5. VAN SPILBERGEN, January sth, 1909.
5.5. LE fIAIRE, February 9th, 1909.
Thence every five weeks, calling at PORT MORESBY, DOBO,
BANDA, MACASSAR, BOELELENG, SOURABAYA, SAMARANG
and BATAVIA, via Queensland ports. The round trip can be made in
54 days, including eight days’ stay in Java. For Booklets, Time Tables’
and all further information apply :
AGENTSMessrs. Mcllwraith, McEacharn & Co. Ltd., Adelaide; John
Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Melbourne; Birt & Co. Ltd., South
Brisbane; Adelaide S.S. Co., Townsville; Bowden Bros.,
Thursday Island; Earp Bros., Newcastle.
The Head Office for Australasia,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 City.


Y3EUR
Oa
V
*
a
*
DAY
*
Heermg
Peter
Cherry Brandy
EST. 1818.
Anti-Sosh throws its alleged principles
out of the window when they come interfering'
with its own job. The other day a British
Medical Association deputation waited on the
N.S.W. Government to point out that £200 a
year was not nearly enough to pay a woman
doctor for inspecting school children, etc. When
it’s a case of employing a seamstress, for instance,
the law of supply and demand mustn’t be inter-
fered with ; Anti-Sosh says the lady should be
employed for what she will accept. But when it’s
a case of employing a woman doctor, the blessed
law of supply and demand has to be hung up, and
a “proper” wage paid—not any mere pittance
that the hardest-up woman doctor may be pre-
pared to accept.
•‘Let her not walk in the sun,” was
Hamlet’s advice to Ophelia. This shows that Hamlet
knew that the sun had power to mar the beauty of
women. But, in these enlightened days, women can
afford tolaug-h at the wisdom of the Prince of Denmark,
even as she can snap her fingers at the sun, the great
enemy of the complexion. With impunity she may golf
and motor, hunt and frolic in the surf, knowing full well
that Valaze, the marvellous skin food, will put to rout
every freckle, dispel sunburn, tan and sallowness, and
restore clearness and whiteness to the skin. 3s. 6d.,
6s. 6d., and 6d. postage. No vena Sunproof Creme pre-
vents, as Valaze removes, freckles, tan and sunburn. It
is a positive safeguard for the skin against the action of
the sun’s rays. 2s. and 3s. 6d. All chemists, or direct
from Helena Rubinstein and Co., Valaze Massage In-
stitute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney, 274 Collins Street,
Melbourne.* ' n
*
<FX-
'mi
m
X
r<i
c
isoß
y
ft'
The next time you go
to your Grocer for any-
thing, ask him to give you
a Robur Calendar. The
Pictures are, as usual,
copies of works of art in
the National Gallery, and
are better produced this
year than ever before.
It isn’t so much that the
Calendars are of any great
\ralue that we suggest your
getting one as that they
are handy for reference
throughout the year, and
artistic little things to have
hanging up in one’s home.
We would also suggest
that you use our tea —we
ought to have said our
good tea, for it really is
good, as well as being nice
and very economical.
The No. 1 Grade is
rich, full delightful flavored
tea. We know of no tea
more suitable for every-
day “high-class” family
trade, and none that it will
pay better to use.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
1875, 1800, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 22, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
On one of our recent lambent, flame-like days
when the weather might almost be vilified with
the phrase, “a devouring element,” I was slowly
turning over the leaves of an illustrated English
paper. In weather that only locusts and lizards
like, one should not do anything hurriedly ; so I
turned that illustrated paper in gradual fashion,
even as a tortoise might do. Well, as I turned
the pages languidly (with a hat-pin) a beautiful,
slender creature about seven feet high and wear-
ing faultless robes and a tiara rose from the con-
volutions of a billowing train till her proud young
head (waved to the minute with the Marcel wave)
touched the big, black headlines that told her
name and state—and frocks. She had a Cupid-bow
mouth, half the size of one of her big eyes.
Her eyes were very big and appealing.
About her long, round throat, no thicker than
the average fat lady’s wrist, was a double row of
jewels, and yet a third row—a rope of pearls—
hung to her waist. One tiny hand held the rope,
thus bending the arm bare to the shoulder, and
displaying the boneless elbow with its “delicious
curve.” (N.B. —The “delicious curve” of his
heroine’s elbow, or cheek, or chin, is dearer than
his favorite nib to the heart of the male novelist.)
The vision looked to have about 19 years to her
life and 20 inches to her waist, hips and bust.
Bringing a mental lever into play, I got my gaze,
off the vision to read what she was wearing.
“Amethyst satin and velvet, in conjunction with
Honiton. Long silver and amethyst embroideries
formed a plastron ” —not a porous plaster—“ down
the front of the skirt and ”
There was a lot more delicate and desirable
reading, ending with the statement: “ A portrait
of Lady Truscott will be found on our third page.”
Lady Truscott is the new Lady Mayoress of
London, and she was the vision that had held me
cataleptic with admiration. That is, a vision
according to the Arbiter Frockiorum who de-
signed the gown. Abandoning the leisurely
attitude and discarding the hat-pin, 1 turned back
to the third page, using both hands and a foot in
my eagerness to see the portrait of this Aphrodite
in the latest directoire gown and hairdressing. . . .
The dots represent the mental hiatus induced
in me by shock. I’m not going to describe
Lady Truscott, except to remark that she looked
very weighty, much brainer than the dressmaker’s
noodle on which her amethyst gown was
hung, and very tired. She reminds of a Sydney
lady who wanted to come into some charity
tableaux and be the stooping lady in “The Sea
hath its Pearls.” A distinguished German
gentleman was on the committee. “ She vould not
do .or the part,” he commented, “but she iss a
very vordy voman and has zehn—l mean ten—
chiltern.”
All through the hot, slow, sleepy afternoons of
last week—just such afternoons as those through
which Lindsay Gordon’s “Sick Stockrider” rode
small detachments of Sydneysiders trammed,
walked, motored,* drove to the tennis courts
at Double Bay to watch the champion-
ship tennis. The court is low and shut
in by rising ground and high houses, which cir-
cumstances make for intolerable heat. As for the
path from “pay here—a shilling please” to the
grass—the person who authorised its being covered
with cinders and ashes ought to be treated with
marked coldness. Ashes blow into one’s eyes, and
cinders scrunching underfoot set one’s teeth on
edge more grittily than the sour grapes our father’s
ate, or our ancestors consumed, or words to that
effect. The play was very dull, but the view
from the back of the grandstand, which is not
boarded up, was otherwise. It costs only sixpence
to sit in that grandstand, but the exhibition of
fatted calf and the amazing heel and wonderful
hose is worth more.
Mrs. Arthur Macarthur has just completed a
strenuous time in a private hospital. Her friends
aver that she is the pluckiest woman in this city,
for though she knew for weeks beforehand that
she would have to undergo a surgical ordeal she
never even mentioned the matter to them.
The Lassetters, father and ex-military son, re-
turned to Sydney town last week, leaving their
wives behind them. The youngest scion of the
house of Lassetter remains at school in Switzer-
land, and his mother stands by to see he doesn’t
slip on a glacier, or stop an avalanche, or engage
in a financial operation with a local waiter—all
manifest dangers in the land of good scenery and
bad hotels. The Lassetters’ Bathurst place has
been let to a branch of the extensive Wigram-
Allen family ; for the grass-widowers propose to
abide all their time at Redleaf.
The “Eugenie lift” has cropped up in gowning.
Most of us heard the term for the first time when
it was mentioned in connection with the trousseau
of the American girl, Miss Elkins, who was
supposed to be about to marry the Duke
of Abruzzi. The Eugenie lift is a little train
to the front of the skirt. If the ex-Empress
Eugenie (presumably it is she who is honored in
the phrase) had big feet, one could understand the
tail in front; but she smote the floor with very
small supports. So perhaps Miss Elkins has the
fore as well as the aft train merely because she
likes the job of holding them up with an ex-
imperial “lift.”
Mrs. “Ted” Simpson left, with her son, for
Colombo on Saturday. She travels aboard the
P. and O. ship whose crew argues amongst itself
with meat choppers, furnace bars and the like.
And there are slanderers who say that our Sydney
women lack enterprise and daring ! Other adven-
turers by the same craft are Mrs. George Hughes
(she was Miss Madge Suttor), the Tooheys, and
Miss Margaret Anglin. I have not heard whether
these people go armed or simply trust in Provi-
dence.
The Lucas Tooth Bart, is receiving an old-world
“welcome home” from his Bega tenants this
week—in fact, the ceremony may be in progress
even as I write. The tenants are said to have
bought two gross of Pansy Novelettes (the
works panned out at something under Id. each—
a reduction being achieved by the acceptance of a
quantity) with the object of studying just how a
Bart, should be greeted on his return to his
ancestral estates. The roasting of an ox whole
represents no difficulty to that cow-pervaded dis-
trict, and barrels of beer are, in the circumstances,
anticipated to be forthcoming without much diffi-
culty. Where the welcomers fear they will bump
trouble is in the details of the jamboree. The
retainers are unskilled in taking the horses out of
the family chariot and dragging the same with
their own toil-worn but faithful hands. Besides,
there isn’t a chariot at Bega. There is no one on
the estate to take the part of the white-haired
family butler, whose job it is on these occasions
to stand on the front steps permitting tears of
affection and loyalty to leak on to his shirt front.
The tenants’ wives don’t know how to “ bob,” and
they refuse to learn. The older cow-cockies
ascribe this disreputable state of affairs wholly to
Socialism, and possibly they are right.
Under the heading “Fuss and Feathers” a
writer in Sydney Telegraph deprecates the aboli-
tion of ali fuss and the whole of the feathers from
military uniforms, and says that what is wanted
is distinction with cheapness. Pondering upon
this demand and filled with pity for the Military
Board, which is struggling with the new uniform,
your “ Akenehi” has planned a distinctive, cheap
and utilitarian dress for swashbucklers. Norman
Lindsay has sketched it for me. “You must
make the tunic a modified Incrovable, ” I ex-
plained, “ to conform to the prevailing fashion in
women’s coats. Pants with three frills, and sand-
shoes, the cheapest shoes on the market ”
“ With spikes in them,” interrupted Norman.
“Your dream of fair warriors would slip when
running away if you didn’t give him spikes in his
sandshoes.”
I allowed the spikes.
“He ought to have a sunshade,” I argued.
“Please draw him holding up his sunshade and
with his rifle on the opposite shoulder.”
“Will I put a bow on the rifle ?” asked Nor-
man. “ The ribbon could be got for twopence,
and the ‘ distinction ’ would be enhanced.”
I allowed the bow.
“Now as to the important item of the helmet,”
I explained. “ The helmet of my design may be
got in almost every back-yard. When a rooster
has done salutation to the glowing morn (as
FUSS AND FEATHERS.
Shakspeare hath it) for three years it is time he
died. The whole outer part of him, with the
exception of the legs, from beak to tail tip could
be dried and blocked into a helmet. It would
greatly resemble the helmet of the early Roman
soldier. ”
“So it would,” enthused the artist, “and the
man in it would greatly resemble the early
Christian martyr.”
“So all the ‘feathers’ and some of the ‘fuss’
could be retained. A man could catch, kill, and
fashion his own helmet. The Defence Depart-
ment need be under no expense for that. Spurs
will, of course, be worn, one behind each ear, so
when my Dream, as you call him, is dancing with
me he cannot tear my frock.”
And then the artist hied him forth and did it,
and the result of his labors appeareth on this
page.
Saturday was a day of many adieux. On every
step of two steamships’ gangways and saloon
stairs a farewell bouquet was reared aloft above
the head of the madding crowd, and on all sides
was heard the dignified phrase of regret: “ S’awf’ly
sorrj f you’re off.” On the Mongolia, Miss Anglin,
with Premier Wade tagged on to her like a creditor
sticking to a debtor, beamed upon a multitude of
admirers. But the most multitudinous multitude
of farewellers to that vessel were there to bend
the spine to the James Fairfaxes, Mr., Mrs., and
Miss. On the Maheno, bound for Wellington
(M.L.) was a battalion to say “ Aurevoir” to Miss
Ola Humphrey, and to assure her that Sydney
would be but a Valley of Dry Bones in her ab-
sence. As it said this it gave her the leak-
ing bouquet of a size to please a gladiator.
It piled the flowers on her until in her blue frock
and etnerald-green winged hat and ruff she took
on all the subtle hues of a flying fish. The
Kolkers, the Titheradges, and the rest of the
H.-K.-T. co. also went along to Ward’s Own
Country, where it will open on Boxing night.
The Rev. F. H. Campion, the Bush Brother,
sometime of Dubbo (N.S.W.), and before that a
figure at Sydney Government House —he who
reckoned all clerics should be celibates till he met
the right girl—is a Father. Not, be it under-
stood, in the Popish acceptation of the term, but
merely in that of the birth-rate statistician. His
wife presented him with a son at West Grinstead
Rectory, Sussex, England, last month.
Miss Ruby Adams is now studying under
Bouhy, in Paris, and absorbing seven lessons a
week.. He thinks so highly of the quality of her
voice and its standard of cultivation that he will
soon put her into his operatic class to cultivate
her repertoire, which will include “ Traviata,”
“ Romeo and Juliet,” “ Faust,” and other master-
pieces.
Since our swell hotels have raised their tariffs
the star mime is on the look-out for a flat or a fur-
nished cottage. Miss Beatrice Day has a cottage
at Lavender Bay; Julius Knight is seeking a
dream of a humpy of his very own during his
season here: and when Miss Ola Humphrey
returns she intends to acquire the flat habit.
Mr. and Mrs. Tommy Burns were at the last
Anglin night—“ The Thief”—and when they
essayed to quit their motor car at the Australia
after the performance, the police had to intervene
between them and many hundreds of demonstra-
tive admirers. It may be true, as Holy Writ
says, that the Almighty has no joy in the strength
of a man or the legs of ahorse. Well, His crea-
tures made up for His. indifference.
A friend sends me this :
The new Hospice for the Dying was opened at Darling-
hurst last Saturday. It is a charity that is worth more
support than most. We all have to die, and by all
appearances, the process is an unpleasant one. The
Sisters of Charity who conduct the hospice take in all
classes regardless of station, sect, or race. It suffices for
them that the applicant is poor, and so hopelessly ill
that a hospital will have none of him or her. By
their efforts the deathbeds of a good many hundred
unfortunates are rendered as cheerful as may be every
year. Those who reckon there is something heroic in a
band of women devoting themselves for life to the task of
caring for indigent moribunds—-a task that is unrelieved
even by the sporting chance that the hospital nurse
always has before her of her patient recovering—might
do worse than send a guinea along to the new Darling-
hurst establishment.
A woman, writing to an English paper, protests
against—-
the never-varying talk as to the personal appearance of
women. It is really tragic that we should for ever be
dogged with this necessity. Very few are born good-
looking, and they themselves have nothing to do with it.
It lasts but a few years.
And the writer goes on to ask—
Is not character, disposition, or temperament, which
are all more or less within their own control and powers of
training, of infinitely more importance ?
The topic has grown pretty wearisome even here
in Australia, for most that is'written on the theme
is copied into the Commonwealth press. All the
Women’s Pages, Ladies’ Columns and Boudoir
Gossip articles fire off at my sex such heaps of
advice about skin foods, face massage and exer-
cises to reduce waist-measurement. A broken
complexion is worse than the breakage of the
whole Decalogue. The fat lady who cannot wear
the Directoire gown is condoled with more deeply
than if she had lost a beloved failed
to get one at all. She is told how to train down,
and to obliterate all but one chin. Anon the
woman with lines on her neck is reminded that
by those lines her age is made known to other
meows, and is instructed in the art of ironing
herself out smooth. According to the gospel of
Saint Face-Massage and the epistle of the apostle
Skin-Food, there need be no bad figures, no
mottled complexions, no poor hair, no lines on
face or neck. “ Hold your head up and your eyes
will appear larger,” says one voice crying in the
wilderness of cosmetics. “Worry makes wrinkles
under the chin,” wails another of the wives of
Solomon Eagle. “Guard against your mouth
collapsing at the corners,” says a third Cassandra,
as if anyone can defy the laws of nature. No
wonder someone has arisen to protest against
being dogged by the personal appearance bogey.
Lord Sholto Douglas, one of the brothers who
befriended the unhappy Wilde in his hour of
need, has stepped into the limelight again. He
has been arrested for shooting a man in British
Columbia, where he owns a fruit ranch. A wire
from Winnipeg to his brother, the Marquis of
Queensberry, stated last month that the fruit-
rancher, on arriving home from a shooting excur-
sion, found there “an ex-officerof the British Army,
whose name is reported to be Roland, and ordered
him off the premises. On Roland refusing, Lord
Sholto emptied the contents of his shot-gun into
his back, injuring him seriously in the head and
neck.” What the ex-officer of the British
army had done to merit such, to put it
mildly, inhospitable treatment hasn’t yet trans-
pired. The Queensberry family is convinced that
it was something fairly reprehensible. “To
describe what my brother did as a case of
attempted murder,” the Marquis of Queensberry
said to a London Daily Mail reporter, “is mani-
festly absurd. We are all perfectly satisfied that
he had ample justification for what he did.” But
the views of the Queensberry Marquis are notori-
ously lax in regard to the plugging of human beings
with lead. He wrote to the London papers only
a few months ago stating that he would empty his
revolver into the first motorist who threatened the
safety of his children in their walks abroad. The
shooting fruit-raiser married a Miss Loretta
Mooney 13 years ago.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :
Strange and terrible are the things that may Happe
to Jones, and these things are sometimes the reason Why
Smith Deft. Home. One of the Jones tribe lives in this
city. He is practically unknown to society, for he plays
so much Bridge that he hasn’t time for the giddy whirl.
One night lately he met at a friend’s house two charming
ladies, and the party hit it off so well that the last tram
had gone before anyone realised the situation. No cabs
were available, but Jones undertook to walk home with
the ladies provided no vehicle transpired en route. Now
Mrs. Dash was not strong, and her husband got nervous at
her non-arrival, and was just preparing a relief gang when
the belated party arrived. “ Good gracious, my dear,” said
Mr. Dash, “ what kept you—and how did you get home? ”
“Oh! we walked,” replied wifey, “and a Mr.—er—l
forget his name —oh, Mr. Jones saw us home.” “ What
Jones?” asked Mr. Dash. “Really, I don’t know,” was
the reply; “just Jones.” Mr. Dash grunted, and the
matter dropped. Meanwhile, Mrs. Blank and Mr. Jones
proceeded to the abode of the former, where Mr.
Blank, a jovial soul, just in from a club, was
wondering where his bit of muslin had got to.
In she came. “I say, my dear, you’re very late,”
remonstrated Mr. B. “Well, so are you,” retorted the
lady. “So I am,” admitted the husband, “ but who saw
you home?” “A Mr. Jones,” said Mrs. B. icily, and
banged the ice-chest. Blank felt snubbed. A few days
later the two husbands met, and the Jones episode hap-
pened to be mentioned. Now two husbands are darkly
suspicious on three grounds : (1) It seems unlikely that
one Jones would take two ladies home on the one night;
(2) it seems impossible that there could be two Joneses
on one night; (3) it is difficult to believe that there is
any real person called Jones. Thus are the simplest facts
distorted by ill-regulated minds.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS LTD
VICE-REGAL-JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS « SILVERSMITHS
Dainty Christmas Presents.
GOLD-MOUNTED BACK COMBS IN LARGE VARIETY.
INSPECTION INVITED.
SSo
Comb 16
c OM
::
\\V> ■■
Sheli Comb
Cold. M<>or*
E^BUIIRgS
CQ ' d MounJed *orn Co^
t>°-
Selection of Goods Forwarded on Approval If desired.
HARDY BROTHERS’ CHRISTMAS BOOKLET sent Post Free on Application.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
lIS QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON * ADDRESS 19-CHARTERHOUSE STREET
TRADE MARK
niiiiil
-s*
m
mm
m
nmn out
\4
&
Vi
“Santa Claus* fi
Esvoritb Gift**
If you want the children to remem-
ber you gratefully for years to como,
give them a Phonograph. They will
forsake all othor Christmas presents
for that. They will never tire of it.
because It has always something new
to offer. It is full of fun and music
and pleases everybody, big or little.
An
IMPROVED
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
talks, plays and sings. It makes home
happy because it provides a greater variety
of clean fun and vocal and instrumental
music than any other automatic entertainer.
Many Edison Gold Moulded Records especially
adapted to children.
Your nearest dealer will be pleased to show
you the Genuine Edison and play over some of
the latest records.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, {
Limited,
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is. Packet of TEN. lOd
STECK PIANOLA PIANO.
THE MOST WELCOME
GIFT OF ALL.
v*.
gl
Pianola Piano
B-
m
I
NO more acceptable gift—no gift offering greater possibilities for enjoyment can be
imagined than this most popular of all pianos.
Its elegance of appearance, the beauty of its richly finished case, pleases the eye,
and adds richness and dignity to all of its surroundings. The fulness and exquisite
quality of the STECK has made this piano one of the world’s greatest favorites.
But, best of all, the presence INSIDE ITS CASE of the most famous of all piano-
players, the Metrostyle and Themodist Pianola, gives assurance of endless hours of keenest
enjoyment, and places within the reach of all one of the greatest of life’s pleasures, that of
PERSONALLY PRODUCING MUSIC.
The Pianola Piano can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the usual way.
THERE is nothing to move up in front of the keyboard. To change the method from
hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide back a panel in the front of
the case, and insert a perforated roll of music.
There is no outward indication which catches the eye to distinguish the Pianola. Piano
from the heretofore type of Pianoforte.
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may be interested in hearing the
Pianola Piano, irrespective of any intention of purchase.
If unable to call, you should write for a catalogue. Simply write and ask for Catalogue 0.
You will get one at once, post paid.
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.,
357 George Street, SYDNEY
( Next David Jones ).
*lso at BRISBANE and ADELAIDE
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


A Lovely Skin.
The clrarm of a beautiful complexion is
undeniable —to get it the skin must be
healthy. Creme Simon tones up the skin,
cleanses it, feeds it, and makes it healthy.
It is recommended by the medical pro-
fession all over the world for this purpose.
Do not trifle with your complexion by
using unscientific preparations that are
half cosmetics. Creme Simon is so pure
that it may be used on the delicate skin
of a child.
INSIST ON
CREME SIMON.
n
(debmlej
taw
U)
et
"The
Corset
for
You!”
I
PD.
CORSETS
Because they more effectually meet all
the conditions essential to the wearing
of the newest of Fashion’s fads and
fancies, and are, therefore, recom-
mended by Fashion’s leading authori-
ties. Beautifully designed by the most
skilful of French Corsetieres, and
thoroughly tailored ; every pair pos-
sesses the graceful lines and curves that
are synonymous with a charmingly
perfect figure. Fit you like a glove—
yet for comfort, stylishness and service
the P.D. CORSET is absolutely un-
rivalled. See that Trade Mark is on
every pair ; it is a guarantee of Quality
-Flexibility-Reliability.
Only First-Class
Drapers and Storekeepers
Stock
Tradk Mark
CORSETS.
P D
m
The Tyre of
Never-Failing Excellence.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 21, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik,—
The Carmichael lady, clad in a wreath of roses,
a smile and a simple dress, came down from the
refrigerating room of Macedon Government
Humpy to wind up the Arts and Crafts show and
add her commendation in the disposition of
diplomas. It’s real right-down aggravating to be
a Governor’s wife under such conditions. Just
when she has got used to a luxurious hammock
and has learnt the hang of the mosquito net she
has to get everything disarranged for the sake of
a one-day’s sojourn in hot and dusty town. Yet
beside the lot of a Governor’s wife put that of
a Governor’s gentleman help—but that must stand
over for another story.
Anyhow, the Carmichal lady and one attendant
knight came and handed out the diplomas.
Treasurer Mrs. Box and Secretary Miss Chomley
sighed with relief and faded off for a necessary
rest. Mrs. Box was so busy getting other people’s
things in order that her own pet sampler had to
go on the walls unfinished. Tall Blamire Young
raked in a prize for modelling, and Mrs. Young,
in a lace scarf of adorable antiquity and some other
drapery, drew a diploma for metal work. Pretty
Ruby Lindsay, in a green linen frock, dimpled
all round the show because her exhibited sketches
were sold right away. The Mac George skating
Adonis marched proudly about with a sister who
had worked a prize portiere. Walter Butler had
made a commendable oak cabinet. He also lent
some ancient Greek lamps that gave one an eerie
feeling just to touch. A Sydney girl, Miss
Lichtner, got the highest place for lace.
It was a very hurried and hustled show (though
a decided financial success), and people came
along at the very last minute with exhibits
tucked under one arm and a shilling admission fee
grasped firmly in the other hand. The Exhibition
was not too well advertised, and had not hoped to
develop into an affair of such importance. It
began as a woman’s work show (a sort of mild
continuation of the Woman’s Work Exhibition),
but was made to include men’s work by force of
appeal. It promises to be a big proceeding next
year, for it will be an annual affair. Fred New-
man let his exquisite show of enamels be swamped
in a trade exhibit of Australian cut jewels; but
the enamelling was solely and only his own art
arid craft.
That second performance of “ The Liars ” by
Upper Crust Amateurs, at the request of the
Dudley Countess, brought a well-frocked and
jewelled crowd to the Princess’s t’other Saturday
afternoon ; and the Distressed Actors’ Fund will
be the better for the day’s takings.
The Yarra banks have been made further ornate
by a new boathouse. The University Rowing
Club has put through 50 years since it was
founded by Prof. Irving, at one time an English
Don at our University. So far, the club has
always used other people’s sheds for its boats, but
Saturday afternoon saw the opening of its own
premises. It is quite a beautiful establishment-
built altogether of jarrah timber. The ground floor
is 70ft. long, and upstairs are bathing and dressing
rooms, with up-to-date lockers in hardwood finish,
and balconies all round, looking on to the river and
over the shrubberies and Alexandra Avenue.
Saturday’s ceremony brought a learned crowd.
Sydney University was represented by Mr.
Purvis, and Adelaide by Prof. Darnley Naylor.
George Fairbairn is president of the Henley-on-
Yarra push, and Gyles Turner boss of the Vic.
Rowing Association, and they and their ladies lad
the frivols. Mrs. Mayoral Burston having cut
the Club ribbons and opened the House,
the crowd fell upon tea and strawberries.
Mr. John Lang, an enthusiast in the Henley busi-
ness, and one of the most energetic battlers for
the boat-house, was there. In his honor the club
made his baby son, Andrew, a life member of the
new club house, and the company toasted the'
young recruit.
There is no doubt the rowing clubs are making
marvels of the one-time ugly Yarra banks.
Henley was gorgeous this year, but there
are still many improvements contemplated.
For one thing, last Henley showed a hopeless dis-
regard for the rule of the river. Little tin-pot
craft and squealy, flower-burdened girl-boats got
hopelessly in the way of the racing, and fluttered
helplessly one way and another amid infuriated
shouts. Big Henley-on-the-Thames has its inex-
orable rule —“big boats to the centre, and small
craft to the sides,” and the jumble-muddle answers
as quickly to command as a pantomime ballet.
Motor launches are allowed only their own parti-
cular roadway—the current from their screws
disturbs the evenness of the “ course.”
Another want is an open-to-the-public chance
to. slay a hot-day thirst. Last Henley, unless one
chanced to be a guest of the houseboats, no one
asked the happy question “ Have you a mouth?”
There was only one small tea-room, and even the
wares, of the ice-cream man on his trolly were
earnestly considered.
The Savage Club has a chance to knock spots off
the other elevated Melbourne clubs by making a
poem of the claim it has pegged out on Yarra’s
shore. All the other clubs have merely coal-
barge-like house-boats ; the Savage has a strip of
earth and a tent. Why not make a permanent
stronghold there, give it a name, and let the club
fix landing steps at the river edge of its own strip ?
To ask mamma’s consent, and with reconciliation
papers to be signed, the clever peace-maker
daughter of our only baronet turned England wards
the other day under the wings of the Russell-
Clarkes. During her recent sojourn, in Australia,
Phyllis.collected material for another novel. She
has also collected a heart—that, of Reggie Power,
son of sporting Robert, and a fine fellow to boot.
Phyllis celebrated her twenty-first birthday at
Rupertswood, and the clans gathered. Whereat
papa Rupert, in the fulness of his heart, said the
girlie might make any request of him and he
would grant it. And she did ! “ Come home to
Park Lane and celebrate my twenty-second birth-
day with mother.” To which the fond parent
dutifully replied “I will.”
The sunburnt cabbies of Melbourne opened their
eyes and blinked the other day when a smart han-
som bowled along Collins-street, driven by a vision
in blue coat and skirt, and a neat hat with a
gossamer twined round it. Cabby guessed all
sorts of things, and guessed wrong; for really it
was only a Gippsland girl’s first attempt at tool-
ing the only kind of vehicle she had never
yet handled. The damsel comes from Yarram,
where the giant gums grow, and no seasoned cabby
could have more skilfully carried out the contract
to drive a friend round the city.
Miss Grace Fitzgerald, one of the daughters of
the late Surgeon Fitzgerald, was knotted on
Monday at Scots’ Church. She took unto herself
Mr. Ted Officer, son of the late Suetonius Officer,
of Kallara Station (N.S.W.). The reception of
the wedding guests was quiet and unceremonious.
The bride wore a soft white walking dress
and big white hat, arid dispensed with the
pomp of attendant maids. The bridegroom relied
upon handsome bachelor Hamilton Russell
to back up his part in the ceremony. Professor
Allen handed the bride over to her groom. The
Grices, the Cliveden Clarkes, the Staughtons, the
Byron Moores, and the Brodribbs and a good
many medical friends made the friendly little
party. Then the wedded ones departed for a
short country moon preceding their departure to
France.
The Collins-street.medical crowd feels quite in-
jured that anyone could impute Brown Girl as a
motive for its New Year holiday. It appears
that the destination of the holiday-seekers is not
the isles where the glossy and lightly-clad maid
hangs her feet over the edge of the coral reef, but
the isles in Bass Straits, which are inhabited
mostly by mutton birds and lighthouse-keepers.
The motive is natural history and fishing, and any
idea of Brown Girl is cast behind them by the
medicoes as if it were the Devil. An expert
fisherman and tackle-mender accompanies the
rovers as a guarantee of good faith and Grundy.
It is strange how likings run in families. The
brother of the doctor who absorbed much lime-
light in the divorce case has just married a cousin
of the leading lady in the same show. Mr. Will
Strong, one of the four sons of the ex-ex-Mayor,
was wedded on Tuesday (15th) to Miss Ethel
Nicholson, a cousin of the handsome Steel family.
The event transpired at St. Thomas’ Church,
Essendon, and the cake-cutting frivol happened at
‘‘Woodlands,” the brewery McCrackens’house.
The affair was military to the last degree. Bride-
groom Willie Strong is decorated with S’African
medals, and his best man, Captain Carstairs, had
even more of the brave bawbees hung on his
manly chest. So the cake was severed by a sword,
and the pomp and circumstance of gold lace
and arched weapons surrounded the ceremonious
knot-tying. Lieutenant Armstrong also helped
groom the star actor, and the bride had
Miss Millie Morrow and Joy M'Cracken to weep
over her and carry her gloves and unnecessary
paraphernalia. Baby Bruntoh, daughter of the
only daughter of the Strongs, carried the bridal
train. Dr. “Bob” Strong was in evidence,
though he had no lines in the play. Mrs. Lady
Mayoral Burston led a battalion of councillors in
full municipal pomp. The Senatorial Bests blazed
above the almost-forgotten Snowdons, who gained
their bauble years ago. The McCrackens lent a
wealthy glitter to the ceremony. The best man,
Captain Carstairs, takes a leading part in a cere-
mony of his own, in Sydney, on the 4th of the
new year. He marries Mils Lee, daughter of
Public Works Lee, of N.S.W.
Two pantomimes dashed onto hot Christmasy
Melbourne on Saturday—Her Majesty’s and the
Royal. The Rupert Clarke-Meynell-Gunn gor-
geousity gave a special view of its frilly final dress
rehearsal, when the principals and their minions
panto-ed all the afternoon and far into the night.
The new Pantomime Boy shows something
specially artistic in legs. She is a Gibson Hirl
type, with an Edna May deliberation and dimple,
and a telling ’Murkan burr to her lines. She also
possesses saucy eyes and a few other odd members,
and a sweet soprano warble that only just gets
there. The panto, is “ Cinderella*” and it has
the unusual merit of keeping to its legend. Pump-
kins turn into an eleetric-iighted coach, and mice
into real horses. . But Cinderella Ruth Lincoln
should have chosen something more hatchety in
face and figure for her two step-sisters. (The
opulent Jennie Opie is one of them.)
Ruth herself makes a charming enough
“Cinders ” in her brown rags, but her glad rags
after the transformation lack the requisite-
glory. They consist mostly of a modest little-
white tulle dress without a train, and badly hung.
It is what day-time women call “the dirty
length”; too short to be held up and yet long
enough to almost touch the ground—an impossible
length for grace in stage exploits. A dress must
be either short or long—short to the knee and
frilly, or long with the magnificence of a stage’
train. Elsie Perrin has some cute dances. That
fair young damsel travels with a brother as.
chaperone. He is an equally fair young man who
rather enjoys the job. You see, his sister is only
one of many pretty girls he sees on the journeyings..
The beauteous Bottomley tenor wears d curled
wig, and looks more feminine than the girliest
girl. Cromwell, as the Baron, and “ Mister Rook,”'
as the grotesque stepmother, get in good solid
work above the average of pantomime rot. The
transformation scenes are like dreams of German
Christmas cards.
A witch and a leggy ballet girl or so slipped
round “front ” during the show, and were politely
shoo-ed off by the management; but at a last year’s.
Williamson rehearsal the whole gaudy lot" of
ballet and panto boys came up to the lounge for
tea at the interval. Some visiting baldheads
shivered in shocked delight at so much, joy,. All
the plump-legged ballet boys, in the glory of their
new tights and toggery, sat round in fascinating
propinquity, whilfe the youth of the occasion,
served out sandwiches and soft drinks.
Though there have been two desperate failures,
in bands since the time of the Besses and their
boom, the irrepressible Taits rebound with
news of something special in the way of brassy
blowers. The something special is being shipped,
for these parts right away.
The Madge Mclntosh people have winged
their way off to Perth. They carry two Wounded
with them, and—steeped in superstition—wonder’
who will be the unlucky third. Atholwood lost
his voice and Beatty followed him on to the sick
list with a serious injury to his throat, the result
of a too realistic struggle in “Jim the Penman.”
Gaston Mervale, who grabbed over-f erven tly at
what Beatty breathes with, had the double part
thrust on him at a few hours’ notice, while
Beckett nervously stepped into villain Mervale’s
shoes for the fraction of a week that remained of
the season.
A benefit to the brilliant and unlucky Athol-
wood was the last of a long series of charity
matindes fired at Melbourne audiences. A good
house answered the appeal at the Theatre Royal.
Little Dr. Maloney—he of the boundless popu-
larity and the numerous hair—commanded a solid
wing of ticket buyers on one side of the circle,
and Dorothy Vane Menzies led her contingent
from the north-east box. Mrs. Tom Hogan
spread her brogue and her wings over a flurry
shoo-ed up by the Scotch energy of Mrs. Alan Mor-
rison, one of our political society dames, who has
taken to amateur theatricals in her middle age.
The amateurs opened the matinee bill, much to
the disgust of Augustus in the gods. Augustus
wanted bellowdrama. They that sit in high
places thundered the delicate dialogue of the
amateur’s “Sunset” into . complete eclipse,
and the beautifully-dressed make-believe act-
resses dissolved into tears. A “dashing
duo” from the Opera House then raised the
spirits of the uppermost, and they joyfully settled
down to consider the thick and gaudy coloring of
the vivid “ Prisoner of Zenda.” Julius Superbus
and his minions lent themselves for this piece.
Madge Mclntosh not only played an act of “ Jim
the Penman,” but swayed ecstatically through a
concertina solo with all the abandon of Horace on
the back wheel of a picnic van. The Thornton co.
put in a one-act comedy, and various eccentrics
and balancing freaks filled gaps in a long pro-
gramme.
Dr. Ridley, a youthful Melbourne medico, has
picked out a pretty Melbourne Hospital nightin-
gale for his life’s matrimonial venture. His nurse-
fiancee is a sister of Dr. McWhae.
The Ross Soden mansion at Toorak nears com*
pletion, and its owner, whose eyes bulge with the
fatness of her wealth, is having a triumphant time
explaining to her neighbors the horrible expense
of each startling new item in the building’s com-
position. For instance, the fire hole in the lady’s
own particular cubby is to framed in beaten
silver and mother of pearl. The decorations
will, however, have a beauty beyond the expens-
iveness beloved of the millionairess’s soul, for the
mighty multitude of carved wood linings and
beaten copper gleams has been put solely in the
clever hands of Mrs. Poster-Blamire Young, a
lady who carves beautiful dreams into wood, and,
albeit, possesses a capable eye for broad, general
effect.
From “Rosna,” who is tired of Adelaide :
The air is full of heat and farewells to the Exes. In
another brief week they’ll be sailing over the raging
brine, hunting up an island called’Trinidad, which, when
found, they will proceed to govern. The past week or
two they’ve been torn hither and thither to attend a bout
of school speech days ; and, being quite as fond of youth
as they are of beauty, they have gone to the lot without an
audible murmur. The frilly and frocky women saved up
their pennies, and bought a small diamond tiara to crown
her Ex.’s kindly brow’, and thus show the Trinidadians just
how we appreciated her. An address, wondrously tooled
and illuminated, went with the gift. A gift isn’t a gift in
South Aus. unless it has an address pinned to it.
Her Ex. has been much interested in Viola Byrne, and
had that kiddy and her mother at the Residence the
other afternoon to Say good-bye to her and hear her re-
cite again. The Way dame was also there, and the babe
was much petted by the company.
Little Clara Kleinschmidt has had her concert; and no
previous young singer ever achieved such a triumph
in this village, that’s certain, For a start, with the luck
that ought to follow a voice like hers, the night was
beauteously and unexpectedly cool; and, though the
affair was arranged in little over a fortnight, and there
w’as none of the private-ticket-selling horror, the Town
Hall was crammed to its tallest chimney pot. All official-
dom was represented: Their Excellencies and a party,
the Chief Justice Ways, and the Mayor and Mayoress
were there. The uncommon-looking girl came on to the
platform in a dainty white frock, and stood perfectly still
while she lifted up her great voice for the crowd’s inspec-
tion. For an inexperienced country maiden her presence
is remarkable. In spite of her name, there is nothing
of the Teuton in her appearance. She is a bru-
nette, with a pair of dark, magnetic eyes. As
for the voice, it is so high you think it's a big soprano ;
also it’s so low that it must be a contralto. But there’s
so much temperament and general promise about it that
you don’t care which it is.
The Appendreena Amateurs had an invitation perform-
ance of Hamilton Aide’s “ Dr. Bill,” at the Walkerville
Hall, the other night, and a well tailored and millinered
audience turned up and had a mirthful time. For once
the hall wasn’t quite packed, but that was probably
because the Kleinschmidt concert had attracted society
in bulk; also the tram-ride to Walkerville just now is
a fearful and wonderful experience. The Appen-
dreena folk are rather champions in their ama-
teur way; and the thing was very well put on,
as usual. Norman Malcolm played the name part,
and the chief honors on the other side of the hedge went
to Muriel Craigie. Kathleen Sutherland’s good looks
were concealed under the wig and other decorations of a
fussy old dame ; while Ethelwyn Robin, as the maid, and
Graham Saunders, as the brainless scion of. Johnnydom,
were responsible fora good, large portion of hilarity.
Their Exes, who haven’t missed a ’Varsity commem.
since they came to Adelaide, had many sorrowful re-
marks made to them at that function last Week ; also more
speeches and compliments were handed to Professor
Bragg. Latter, after 23 years hard work at our ’Varsity,
goes to a British appointment, much to the sorrow of the
undergraduate fraternity. Apart from these excitements
it was a deadly dry affair. The undergraduates, for
whom the commem. is generally supposed to have been
invented, were not admitted apparently because some
ancient fossils on the Council were afraid of being made
fun of. Among ad eundems was a D.Sc. bestowed on
Geoffrey Dulfield, the fearfully distinguished young South
Australian who has just come back from Europe to look
after the Australian stars, which he considers are being
neglected.
An Adelaide scribe, writing from London, reports that
South Australian Frank Bradley, is playing a millionaire
in “ The Marriages of Mayfair,” at Drury Lane, a pretty
large triumph after less than three years on the London
stage. She adds that the Australian called, five times
•on his first manager withoutgetting any satisfaction. Then
he told him that London managers made him tired, and
he might be refusing a second Irving if he only knew it.
Upon" which the manager instantly engaged him at
.£1,965,314 a year or less.
Some much-travelled individual has been telling us that,
when finished, Adelaide’s electric-car system will be the
finest in the world. The only blot on this statement is a
suspicion that it never Will be finished. Now, when
iseveral of the lines are ready and waiting, it is discovered
that there is not enough material for all the cars needed.
Meanwhile the ancient horse-boxes are becoming perfectly
acrobatic. The other day one sat down and flung its
wheels broadcast. It was on a single line, but the follow-
ing cars were quite undaunted- They - simply drove
•out on to the open road and passed the ruins that way.
Your old electric and cable trams can’t do things like
'that—see 1
We are waking up ! Glenelg beach has burst into an
open-air theatre, where Pierrots and Pierrettes will occur
nightly. Also, it is soon to have a maze. And if the
authorities had the sense to stop mobs of racehorses from
using it as a training track, it might be the finest beach
in all Australia—or, anyway, as fine a one as any.
Some items from Brisbane :
Our vice-regal fplk departed on Thursday Toowoomba-
wards, and the local shanty is given over to the ghosts of
other days—the Shades of the real live Marquis that once
shone upon us ; of Miss Kennedy, that served a vice-regal
brew in black bottles ; of Musgrave, the gentle, whose
life it is said was shortened in some mysterious way by a
pair of boots (the details of the story were lost in the
flood), and of Henry Wylie Norman, the charitable, the
man who, when remonstrated with for going among the
strikers, replied, “ Where there are working men, there
are no assassins.”
Her Ex., prior to her flitting, entertained the very
small fry of the Crbche and Kindergarten at a Christmas
Tree on Thursday evening. There was a big cake, and
a tree ablaze with candles and toys, which the rep. of
Edward Bex had spent the morning hanging, sticking
and pasting on. I know that he had a hand in it because
I passed him and his missis in a cab going lunchwards,
and he was sucking his thumb where the hammer
struck it.
Our pretty Mrs. Ruthven has gone down to your city
per Omrah, for a set of new frocks and frills. I wonder if
you will admire her Geo. Du Maurier style.
The death is announced of Mrs. Blair, a sister of Mrs.
De Burgh Persse. The deceased lady died in the Emerald
Isle.
Mrs. Robert Philp and sister Ellie go to the land of
apples after New Year; and Dr. Lucas (he of the pawpaw
ointment that will heal the gash in a galvanised-iron tank
in three applications and grow wool on a top hat in a
night) goes to view the London smoke-stacks in February
next. There he will see his daughter, who is just now
battling with the musical exams, of the Associated Board.
That daughter is said to be doing great things for her
country. Another young native of these parts that has
had the.cable-man on her trail of late is Miss Florette
Prior, niece of Mrs. Campbell Praed. She is announced
as a big success at one of the Brinsmead concerts. When
she left these shores, Florence lifted a voice that rang
full but (now and again) it also rang false. No doubt that
little trouble has yielded to much teaching since then.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


{
{
IMPERIAL
m
WA
m,
%
»
'W
k*' k
'
■ .
,
.
■ •
' - • ' ...
{S', 'J ' , ,
• • ...
• • . .
. ■ •• ■ ■
■;■■■'
.
, '
‘
■ * I
:. *L
.... .. • . . *
II
i ! •
.
, .
.■ - -.I
shjm;
'tc^ 15 m *Jfs)k rn e * 1
HH
& THE FI
m
pa**
—as
D f
Mail!
'■in
/
BY
V/.
m
m
jn
s
FROM THE
HEATH COVERED HILLS OF SCOTIA I
COME


WINCHESTER
Bjj ;’j j: i>
.t! VS^'-rA'
s\k s
Jg*>wA
~ -y~~
ii
■h'N'J\
:• *n W
*mJf
mMiMml ii jPMf" jr v 4«^
i:J : l - «*^%Kv-“rfe w «sv J-pi-?.
&('&&$ V : - '/' '••^
!LiH ; _ AfiVl m_
mwM&z
»_■
.
/ Up.’r.A:'-
MSStefii
“REPEATER”
Smokeless Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Repeater” cases are
carefully and accurately
made and loaded with
high grade powder, shot
and wadding by exact
machinery. That’s why
they shoot so strong and
so uniformly and make
such even patterns.
Price considered no shot
gun cartridges on the
market equal them.
Try Them. Sold by All Dealers.
M
g
m
m
1
IN TRE HOME.
A vast amount of human misery is
endured, by thousands of men and
women who are never really well.
Headache, sickness, nervous depres-
sion, dislike of food, sinking sensa-
tions, with distressing dizziness and
weakness, make life a daily misery
to such sufferers. And the cause is
indigestion —a stomach that starves
the body, because it cannot digest
sufficient food to keep it well, and
leaves the mind weak, irritable,
depressed. To such unhappy ones
Mother Seigel’s Syrup brings a mes-
sage of hope, brings the ready help
to health, brings the quiet, strong
sense of confidence which only
health can give—health re-made
and regained, through sound diges-
tion. Take it daily after meals.
Mr. T. Fitzgibbon, x, Hugo Street, Redfern,
NSW writing on March 18th, 1908, says :
“ For years I suffered most severely from
acute indigestion. Nothing did me any good
until I got Mother Seigels Syrup. The
first bottle enabled me to eat and digest,
and soon I was quite cured.
mother
SEIGELS
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Noveities
THE U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
dog (or
man)with
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
night watch men, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
ment for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, orpostfreeany\vherefor3/-
The Joker’s Squirt
Cinematograph.
A real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a micros-
copic lens fitted into one end. While the
victim is absorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing something in-
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the vest pocket. Full directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
5k
: m
: ■
The Searchlight Elec-
tric Pocket Lamp and
Scarf Pin can be used as an
ordinary lamp for lighting pur-
poses, also as a Novelty Electric
Scarf Pin. The
whole outfit
guaranteed in
perfect working
order, throwing
a dazzling bright
light. Price,
complete, 2/9,
or post free 3/3.
Extra Batteries
for re-charging
lamp 1/-, or post
free 1/3.
Wholesale and
Retail.
N
/
illustrated Catalogue—new edition just published.
Send for our
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Struct, Svdxf.y.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. Ij. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Hnymarket Post Office.
m
<s.
What’s the Excitement?
Why, they are all hurrying to get their
bikes fitted up with the improved
EADIE COASTER HUB
as now manufactured by the famous B.S.A. Co.
We simply cannot deliver these fast enough, and you should not waste
a moment if you want one for the coming season. The Eadie Coaster
Hub is now the most perfect combination ol free wheel and brake that
is possible to conceive, and can be fitted to any bicycle by any dealer.
The Eadie Two-speed Coaster
is on the same principle, but combines a free wheel and brake with a
perfect two-speed gear. This, of course, costs more money, but the
benefit secured to road riders is a revelation.
Get a B.S.A. Handbook (just out) and learn all about the latest
improvements in the world-famous B.S.A. production. It can be had
from any dealer, or from —
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
AGE COMMANDS RESPECT
4/ter
And age is only a matter of looks. If you are too boyish in appearance,
‘he use of
D*F*
CAPILEARINE
now will change it
in a few months.
A little rubbed on is all that is required to produce a heavy moustache
that will add five years to your appearance. START USING IT NOW !
Price 10/6
Posted in Plain Wrapper to
any address in the World.
1 CRAI6 & AITKEN
Established \
. 25 Years ) j
654 George St., Sydpey.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
n
BY
APPOINTMENT
mn
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites. _
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the ? arpetS>
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without tHe Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
m
yfoVelty! yfeii tried!
Mo Joot • No jmoKing
US7M afonce- #
nm
INVERTED
lndoor
Sunset Wind proofs
£atavia indoor
11 % Candle Power.
Al«w Twcncenf
Kerosene incandescent
4 L? m P s
n
or Australasia Limited*
441 Kent Srreet.Sydney. Perry Bros. Brisbane*
230 Flinders Lane. Melbourne.
*A*A
Burner, comp/ere
7SCP_
The Inky Way.
Hall Caine, in his autobiographical sketches, deals in-
terestingly with Blackmore, who seemingly was his dear
friend and candid critic. The generation that can t
read Dickens ” or understand how he could have far out-
rivalled all other novelists of his time in popularity, will
be surprised to hear that Blackmore, the author of
“Lorna Doone,” could read nothing but Dickens in his
latter days when his health was shattered. The combina-
tion of lurid sensationalism and comic relief in his narra-
tives was only half the secret of Dickens success. Nor
was the strength of his exaggerated character pictures re-
sponsible for the whole of the other half of his large circula-
tion. Some of the charm was in his literary style, which
to the modern short-story reader is intolerably redun-
dant. Blackmore, although he didn’t come to light, as a
novelist until the year before Dickens death, had
acouired his own literary taste during the era of Dickens
and Thackeray and their disciples, when the best novels
in the language were some of the longest. And of all
those popular writers Dickens wa,s the easiest to read.
Jealous contemporaries called him ‘ gushy, pedants
scoffed at him for his want of culture, many Irishmen
and Scotchmen almost hated him for his utter
Englishness and his London prejudices. But up to the
time when long novels were displaced from current favor
by short novels (because the best of the new writers
lacked the old writers’ capacity for sticking to their job)
the Dickens style pleased the popular taste of English-
men, and the sons of Englishmen all the world over.
Blackmore was English, but he was born and bred out oi
London, and was certainly not a townsman at heart.
“Lorna Doone,” the most remembered of his novels, is
admired to-day by a generation that affects to despise the
great melodramatic humorist, of whom Blackmore, in his
sick old age, said, “ He is the only one I can readln?w.
Here is matter for discussion at the next monthly me
ini? of a Dickens Society.
* * • •
“Newsboy”: Apropos all this chat about Maurice
Brodzky. X met him shortly before he left Mel^°“*'" e - *
was at the time on the staff (such as it was) of the n
defunct People’s Daily. Brodzky was editing a little
four-page sheet called the Sporting News, alsonow de-
funct. (What a lot of papers are “ now defunct by the
way!) Brokzky had dropped into the People s Daily
office to see if it required an editor. He expressed to pie
his horror at “ dee mismanagement, and dee extrava-
gance ”of the Daily. (Brodzky did speak pidgin Eng-
lish ”as far as the word “the” is concerned, at any rate,
notwithstanding “ L.E.’s ” assertion to the contrary.) He
was sure that if he had charge of the People s
could make it pay. In course of conversation Maurice
informed me that the total cost of Producing
the Sporting News was under £4 per ' v ' eeK '
Remarked Brodzky : “ People think it costs a
great deal to run a newspaper, but they can De
produced for very little if one knows dee ropes. Api opos
“L.E.’s’’remark about his writer friends fund of odd
corner anecdote, and his unconsciousness of its value.
Brodzky informed me that he was doing a column or so
of this class of matter every week in the Sporting News ,
“and do you know,” he added, surpnsedly, dee public
seems to like it, for dee sales have increased immensely
since I began it. I intend to give more space to it in
future.” It' was characteristic of Maurice to cast his
pearls before swine, and to make the leading feature of a
paper supposedly devoted to sport a column of matter
dealing fascinatingly with everything except sport, as i
remarked before, the Sporting News is now defunct; but
whether Maurice killed it by devoting its columns to
translations of the Hebrew prophets instead of informa-
tion about ’orse and stoush and dead birds, will never
be disclosed.
* * • *
An item from Queensland :
Mowreylan,
Oktober 4.
Deer Bulliteen, —Its onli a mattre uv form I startid
this with deer. Evry 1 duz it. This lettre aint ntten m
a konsilyateri sperit, as they sa. . , .
I want ter sa a fu things, amung witch is a greevents
agin yer blamed ole papur. If yer wood studdy yerone
intrest taik mi advize an ave this greevents recktifniea.
Intendin this advize I want yertu understan I voyce tne
semtinense uv 200 pade up skribers in this distnked tu
yer blamed ole papur. . .
Wot I komplane uv is the tipe yu yews in printin sum
uv yer blamed ole papur is that smorl a bloak wanse a
mikereskope tu reed it. Gordlunnny sum uv the tipe ua
remined yer uv inseks on a summer nite. After reedm Di
kandle lite 4 a wile they du orl sorts uv kontorshonus aks.
Not kontent with ’avin’ ole kolums uv this, yer sprea
the inseks promisqusli orl over the rest uv yer blamed ole
papur. . -vi
Now, I want this rektified ; rekolekt I av at nil bak
2000 pade up skribers tu yer blamed ole papur.
Yer barrak a lot 4 pewer fude 4 our infent pro jenny,
an klammer 4 milk munisipillzat—no, that beet me but
yer no wot I meen. . .
Bein so intrestid in the welfair uv the mfanse its a t
dur yer don’t studdy the addulse an not tri tu roon there
eysite, an drive em silly with kontorshonus inseks.
If this mattre ain’t remydeed ile reed yer blamed ole
papur no moar. Praps yerl repli in the punjent kolum,
pur meejum uv the offis boise offis boi, that 10-2-4, kodak
an silus sneLL dont kair if 1 never se wot they rite.
I spose they spen most uv there time angin roun yer
premMrs arf inked an beets their wives.
Rimmimbr I hav 20000 pade up skribers ter yer blamed
ole papur beind me „
Yewers Ortilly
Swagman.
* ■* * *
“Scribe”: The late David Syme’s worst mistake was
the attempt to work the Herald with the Age, afternoon
with morning paper, lifting the metal about. The papers
were called the Symese Twins. Jardine Smith wrote for
Syme on the Herald. Syme thought him no good. He
went to the Argus and wielded the most brilliant rapier
there, with his daily onslaughts on the “ Berry Blight,
which expression he is said to have invented. It sounded
good, like the Braddon Blot, but Victoria would give any-
thing now to have the old Berry back, and the State
Premiers are shouting for the return of their Blot. ‘ The
Blot that the builders rejected, the same has become the
head of the corner.” When G. P. Smith left the Age, H.
J. Smith replaced him, with a bludgeony burlesque on
G. P.’s slaughterous style. His work was credited to G.
P. Smith. H. J. Smith, though a heavy swell, was known
as “ the baker,” having followed that trade in Dunolly.
He went to the Argus as head of the staff.
THE LOST POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was born to stir the spirit of his race to tears and
laughter; .
He was born to be the writer and the singer of his age.
For he had the gift in keeping, and the generations after
Should have held his name, “ The Deathless,” as a glorious
heritage.
His the gift of dream and wonder, his to see with clearer
vision
Through the old pretence and fashion, to the heart of
Hidden Things ;
But his people stood before him, and they barred the
gift’s fruition,
And they told him of the madness that such dreaming
ever brings.
They had words to crush the yearning of the high ambi-
tious spirits,
And they held his spirit downward as it struggled to the
light ;
And they whispered to each other, “ ’Tis the madness he
inherits
From the Father and the Mother ; let us guide his steps
aright.”
So they dragged him slowly downward—he was young and
very lonely,
And he turned him from the starway, and he made their
cares his own.
And then—Ah, shall we blame him, if he sunk a short
while only
To the level of his kindred, for the wrong was theirs
alone.
Then he woke as if from slumber, but the starry path was
And^the 6 spirit world was shrouded, and he sought its
light in vain. , .. , .
And the gift of song went from him, as it came to him,
unbidden;
He had turned to meaner worship, and he might not sing
again.
So he bade farewell for ever to the glowing spire and
steeple,
To the strong blue hills a-shimmer, to the brightness of
the sun,
And he left the youth behind him, that was slain by his
own people,
In a grave rose-piled and hidden, and the poet-life was
done.
Then he wandered forth a rover, and the dark and silent
spaces
Never knew the sound of singing by its magic lay un-
crossed ;
But the wrong went up to Heaven, and the angels bowed
And the stars were veiled and hidden for the poet that
was lost.
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.


Mr. WILHELM GANZ, one of the leading musicians in London, called, as did many other musical celebrities,
at our stand at the Franco-British Exhibition, played upon and tested our pianos, and afterwards sent the
following purely voluntary testimonial :
Messrs. Beale & Co. Ltd.
November yth, 1908,
8j Onslow Gardens, S. IV.
Dear Sirs,
It gives me great pleasure in stating that I consider the Grand Piano-
forte, which you exhibited at the Iranco-British Exhibition, a very first-rate
instrument. I much enjoyed playing on the same. The touch is excellent, like-
zuise the tone —I especially admired the wonderful tone of the bass. In fact I
hardly remember a pianoforte with a more resonant sound, and A zistralia may
be very proud of your having produced such a fine instrument.
With every good wish for your success in the production of these pianofortes,
/ remain,
Yours very faithfully,
(Sgd.) WILHELM GANZ.
Inasmuch as Mr. Ganz has played thousands of pianos during his lifetime, and is one of the fore-
most musicians of the day, his opinion can only be regarded as of the highest value.
The Beale Australian Pianos have been awarded the Grand Prix, two gold medals and a silver medal
at the Franco-British Exhibition, 1908.
Exact duplicates of the pianos sent to London may be seen at any of our showrooms.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaid<
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.
Cash or Easy Terms.
Old Pianos taken in Exchange.


FOB
KALYDOR
THE
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
HEADACHE.
The First Symptom op Every Form of
Disease.
Sick and nervous headaches are but the symp-
toms of other ailments to which they are merely
sympathetic, such as indigestion, biliousness, con-
stipation or some other irregularity of the system.
Many women habitually suffer from headaches,
which make life a daily purgatory. Indeed, this
complaint may be regarded as peculiarly an affec-
tion of the feminine sex, an ailment common to all
women from girlhood to old age.
‘• After years of suffering with sick headaches,
writes Mrs. Josephson, 14 Parsons Street, Rozelle,
Sydney, “I was induced by a friend to try Dr.
Mrs. Josephson.
(From a photo.)
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and although I
was dubious of their
doing me any good I
made up my mind to
give them a trial, and
before I had finished
the first bottle T felt
considerably relieved.
I kept on taking the
Pills occasionally, until
I had taken three
bottles in all, and I
found I had quite over-
come my ailments;
they have made quite a
new woman of me. It
is over twelve months since I took the Pills,
and as I have had no return of the trouble I can
honestly recommend them to anyone suffering as
I was. You can use this in any way you like.”
To overcome headaches it is absolutely neces-
say to get at the cause. Drugs which act on the
heart and reduce the pulsations only have a tem-
porary effect. If you suffer from indigestion,
biliousness, constipation, disorder of the liver and
kidneys, or from any weakness peculiar to your
sex, there is no better remedy than Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
v'f'
■A Ur'
he stadium,
BOXING DAY, December 26.
11 a.m. sharp.
WORLD’S CHAMPIONSHIP—
BURNS v. JOHNSON.
Tickets at MICK SIMMONS’, 119 King Street, Sydney.
Tickets sold elsewhere are FORGERIES.
Country Visitors can book seats by Wire or Letter.
PRICES—£IO, £5, £3, £2, £l, 10s.
Special trams &’buses returning to city & racecourse.
1 pp- EXCURSION RATES ON ALL RAILROADS.
Scientific Boxing & Self-Defence Ltd.,
Hugh D. Mclntosh, Director.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-Messr* E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt 8t„ Fremantle.
Brkweby and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Johnson has left his quarters at Botany and
removed himself and his retinue to Manly by the Sea, and
the spectacle of Johnson streaking’ over sand dune and
seashore is an added charm to that delightful suburb.
Said that Johnson’s trainer is in great grief, hor
three weeks he has been trying “to dry up the big
man’s bingey and toughen it, but owing to the sultry
weather and the vital necessity for liquid the warrior
absolutely refuses to dry up. Johnson’s admirers are
much impressed bv the fact that he caught a hare in 10
nlinutes and laid by the heels a greasy pig in quite a few
seconds. But this writer is not impressed. Catching a
hare is a matter of trickery, rather than of speed or
agility, and writer has seen men who couldn’t run for
their lives catch hares in the open paddock in old Cantei-
bury, in the days of his boyhood. The greasy pig is quite
another proposition, and writer cheerfully confesses his
ignorance of what that indicates. His sole acquaintance
with greasy pig has been confined to the dining table and
to dealings with capitalists.
In fact, the air is full of disquieting rumors re
Johnson’s training. The lying jade who occasionally
tells the truth has spread it that Johnson’s training has
consisted largely of champagne and female society, inter-
lineated with streaks of terrifically hard work. Many
of these rumors are due to the fact that another
negro also named Johnson is swaggering around city
bars and being mistaken for the fighter. Writer
knows personally that the colored champion has done
tremendously hard work, and to the touchy his arms, legs
and shoulders are as hard as vulcanite. His strength is at
any time abnormal, and with the exercise he has been
taking it is now almost phenomenal. He can take three
heavy men, one after another, with their hands clasped
round his neck, and give them the giant swing
without perceptibly increasing the speed of his
heart action. Sparring with Lang, the Australian
champion is a baby in his hands, and could be laid out at
any moment. In the clinches, he has a curious lock-
action, by which the Australians who have sparred with
him have found their armsrendered powerless and in-fight-
ing made an impossibility. Not a boxer in the city but
savs Johnson must win, and win easily. In all sparring
exhibitions he has shown amazing skill in defending his
head and face, and not one of the sparrers could land a
really effective blow in the neighborhood of his jaw. And
thatj briefly, is the case for Johnson, the big, brawny,
good-natured, over-grown boy.
And this is the case against him: Burns
shoulders are Atlantean, and his arm at the biceps is as big 1
as the leg of an ordinary man. That arm tapers down to a
fist that is much smaller than that of the average
man, and the arm is really a wedge of bone and muscle.
The white man has trained hard and carefully, and no
hint of Babylonian orgies wanders around concerning
him. Judging by the exhibitions given by both
men, Burns is faster on his feet, and hits more
quickly and with much more weight behind the
blows. Johnson hits with his arm, Burns with
his whole weight. The difference is tremendous.
Johnson’s sparring partners have, one and all, led for his
head, and he has brought the protection of his nobility to
a fine art. But it is not his head he will have to defend
when he meet Burns, but his midriff. His diaphragm, is
admittedly his weak spot. For weeks his trainer has
been trying to “ dry it up and toughen it,” and it is said
that owing to the inclemency of the weather and the
necessity for liquid refreshment Johnson will not dry up.
But this is mere rumor. 'Vet certain it is that not once
in all the sparring matches writer has seen Johnson en-
graged in has he been called upon to defend his
stomach. And it will be there that the yiant
blows of Tahmmy will land in quick succession on
Boxing Day. Johnson’s extra height of sJin. is
increased by Burns’ peculiar “ American ” crouch till the
only part of his anatomy exposed to Johnson will be the
hinder view of him upside down. Possibly Johnson may
knock him out by hitting him on the tail of the back.
Upper cuts will be Johnson’s most effective blows, ana
the upper cut will probably be met on Burns’ glove. And
all the time Johnson’s diaphragm—which will not dry up
—will be exposed to the quick, savage, jerky blows
behind which Burns will put his whole 13 stone. Writer
examined the Johnson diaphragm critically of late, and
found it “a fair round belly with fat capon lined.
It was soft-looking, and resembled a little heap
of sheeny brown satin. Johnson does not per-
mit callers to make free with that part of his
anatomy. It has dimples in it, and a rude touch might
destroy their symmetry. Burns’midriff, on the other hand,
is not a thing of beauty. It is a straight streak of some
hard substance resembling vulcanite, bleached out some-
what indifferently, with ridges on it, and any caller is
permitted to make free to the extent of whacking it with
his fist and proving it to be composed apparently of
leather backed with lead. In plain English, Burns has
trained himself to a point at which all his vitals are pro-
tected with a thick coating of muscle and hardened tissue,
and Johnson has not.
The Burns method of destruction is scientific.
Having located the weak spot, he hammers away,
directing all his blows for it. In the case of Johnson, the
weak spot is the part of the colored man’s anatomy most
easily reached bv the white champion. Therefore, purely
on observation, the writer tips Burns as the winner of the
contest somewhere between the 9th and 13th round. Ut
course, there is always the random blow to be reckoned
with All fights are gambles. But on the form exhibited
Burns should certainly win, as aforementioned. Barring
the random swipe, Johnson, if he is to win, will have to
show a degree of skill and speed not so far indicated in
any of the exhibitions that he has given. .
The above remarks are based on personal ob-
servation. They are borne out somewhat by rumor. It
is said that although Johnson is quite able to do it, he
has not, so far, covered the £2OOO deposited by Burns
with Mr. Corbett as a side wager. It is also stated
that there is a further sum of £2OOO offering on Burns at
fair odds, the only stipulation being that the money
must be wagered in hundreds ; and it is alleged that
up to time of writing, none of Johnson s admirers
had aonlied for any of it. On the other hand, some of
the Johnson party on Saturday last took £5OOO to £3500.
So all is doubt, confusion, and general cursing.
* * * *
The question of the appointment of a referee
has occasioned much trouble. Nathan would not act
and there wore difficulties in the way of choosing a good
man. On Monday morning the two principals met
at the office of the Mclntosh and discussed the
question. The Mclntosh submitted various names, wind-
ing up with “ Snowy ” Baker and Colonel Byrie. Johnson
absolutely refused Baker on account of youth, and
objected to the gallant Colonel as not having enough
experience. As these two just about exhausted the list,
something like a deadlock has been reached. Under the
articles, the Mclntosh has the power to nominate a referee
regardless of either or both the men’s wishes if they fail
to agree upon one. Under the circumstances the only thing
left to the Mclntosh is to appoint himself. He knows the
game from A to Z, and he is deeply interested in having a
square battle, for long after Burns and Johnson have faded
out he will still have to live in Sydney. The present position
is that he must either force one of them to accept someone
he has objected to, or find a new man. No matter who
is appointed, men who have laid money on the affair will
make efforts to influence him, and as all the rest of the
reputable men have been objected to by one or the other,
the Mclntosh can do nothing else but referee Jthe big
fight himself.
* * * *
“Leonce”: Herewith my summing-up of the
probabilities in next Saturday’s conflict. First, to deal
with the allegations of “ cronk business,” that are invari-
ably bandied about in connection with a championship
fight. In this case, they seem to me not unjust merely,
but insane. The Heavyweight Championship of the
World is such a priceless asset these days that it is pretty
well unpurchasable. The offer of £350 a week that Harry
Bickards has made to whichever man wins on Saturday
is but a fleabite by comparison with the salaries the
London, New York, and Paris halls will pay later. There
is an idea abroad that Johnson’s color will debar him from
getting a scrupulously fair deal. This I can’t believe.
Apart from the fact that the officials selected are men of
repute, it has to be remembered that there are keen
judges outside the ring that have to be satisfied—twenty-
five thousand of them. Also that the Mclntosh is a
wealthy and respected citizen with a host of irons in the
fire apart from stoush-promoting ; one who has all to lose
and nothing to gain by the scandal of a bad decision.
No ; if ever a pug was in for a fair deal Johnson is on the
26th.
The points in Burns’ favor are easily told.
(1) He is at the exactly right age to engage in
a heavy-weght event. Just as the bantam is
at his ‘top from 16 to 20, so the heavy-weight is
most formidable from 26 to 30. Burns is rising 27,
and has probably never been stronger or healthier m his
life than he is to-day. (2) Burns is the fastest heavy-
weight the world has ever known.. He combines immense
power and weight with the quickness and lightness of
foot of a Griffo. (3) He has a punch. (4) He is game.
Johnson is a better boxer than Burns. The way
he has toyed with Australia’s best during the last few
weeks has been as wondrous as it was depressing, bound
critics swear that he is as good as Peter Jackson ever was.
His condition seems just about perfect. Onlookers who
have no sympathy with the black man’s cause own that
if he will but “ fight” Burns he should win. But will he
“ fio-ht”? He is said to hold the terrific kicking jabs of
repertory in high respect. By standing on and
“ boxing ” the little man he may hope to avoid the deadliest
weapon in the Burns armory, and get a decision on points.
But that way lies the possibility of Burns scoring a clean
knock-out. Johnson is nearly two stone heavier than
Burns. He has easily accounted for everyone he has
fought of late years with the exception of Marvin Hart;
and he challenges the decision in the Hart battle.
Against Johnson it may be noted that he is but a month
or two short of 31—a fighter is getting no better after 30.
Also he appears on paper to have but a moderate
“ punch ”by comparison with Burns. A large number of
the Johnson victories are points decisions. Johnson s
e-ameness is understood to be nothin# out of the way.
It is certain, anyhow, that the brand of it that he
possesses is considerably inferior to that owned by Burns.
If I were invited to prophesy on this most baffling event
I should forecast that the white man will knock out
the Ethiopian somewhere in the neighborhood of the 15th
round.
* * * *
As an instance of the way the assault-and-
battery microbe has fastened on Sydney, there were some
15 000 people at the Stadium last week to see Les O Don-
nell and Bob Bryant deal it out to one another. Tommy
Burns seconded' O’Donnell, and Jack Johnson did the
same kind office for Bryant. Both lads were announced
as “under 11.4,” but the difference between them was
that, whereas O’Donnell was but a pound or two below
the middle-weight limit, Bryant weighed little more than
lOst. A gamer battler than the Johnson nominee
never stepped into a ring. For 19 rounds he bored in on
his big opponent, and gave him Sheol about the body.
In the out-fighting O’Donnell scored, and in the 20th and
last round he handed the little man some very sultry
punches about the face. “Snowy” Baker, who refereed,
gave it a draw, and that was doubtless the correct deci-
sion. though a big section of the audience reckoned that
Bryant deserved the verdict on the points he had piled
up during the earlier stages of the fray. Burns and
Johnson livened things up by engaging in a furious argu-
ment before the event of the evening began, and for a
space it looked as though the pair meant to forestall next
Saturday’s flare up. However, it was not to be. The big
and the little giant retired to their respective corners,
and there gave their opinions of each other in the hushed
tone that militates against a breach of the peace.
* * • *
The skv is clearer and the gentle zephyrs more
balmy than usual in Sydney just now’. The threatened
resignation of the McElhone from the secretaryship of the
Australian Cricket Board of Control is a dream of the
past, and Fighting Mac will continue to swing the axe
till the question of allowances to players is settled.
On Friday night, the Board of Control sat with
closed doors and did things. The next Australian XI.
goes to England under the management of the Board,
which will collect_ all the money and retain 5 per
cent, out of the first £6OOO taken, and 12J per cent, from
all subsequent takings. The balance it will divide
equally among the players, and thereby abolish the scan-
dal of players being admitted to the XI. on condition
they play “on terms." As the Board figured it out on
the records of previous elevens, this means about £IBUU
to the Board and £7OO or £BOO to each player and the
manager. Immediately the terms were announced, Mr.
Clem Hill, himself a member of the Board, but absent in
Adelaide, announced that he would not go to England.
Mr Noble also announced his intention of staying
at'home. The prospect of making £7OO or £BOO
is so ruinous to both these gentlemen that they simply
cannot allow their sporting instincts to get them down.
To The Bulletin, which will not be included in the il.
ifnder any circumstances, and therefore may lack that
keen perception born of personal interest, it seems that
the Board has been foolishly generous.
• * * *
The end of the sixth round of Sydney first-
grade cricket on Saturday last saw some tall smiting.
No less than five centuries were smacked up by Clarke
(1411 of North Sydney, Kerim (118), of Redfern, Way (126),
of Redfern also, R. Minnett (109), of North Sydney, and
Thomas (105 n. 0.), of Sydney. In addition to these,
scores of 50 and thereabouts were also fairly plentiful.
A curious feature of theround was that it yielded
not one three-point win, and all matches were lost and
won on the first innings. In its match against Waverley,
Gordon made its big score in the wrong innings, going
out in the first attempt for 102. Waverley notched 233,
and then Gordon went to the wickets and scored 251
for the loss of seven wickets. But it was no
good. Time ran out and Wade’s suburb lost the
<'-ame by 131 runs. Burwood has achieved the reniark-
alile, and has at last won a match by making 16U and
then disposing of Petersham for a miserable 93.
It thus arrested the bun with a margin of 68.
Sydney was again a chopping-block in spite of the
efforts' of Thomas, who unfortunately made his big
score in the second innings. The first ended for
220, but North responded with 339 for seven wickets, and
Sydney hopes went up the spout. Glebe, which the
previous Saturday closed with eight wickets down for
362 smashed up Balmain for 206, and secured a margin
of 156. Central Cumberland walloped Redfern by 257
runs on the first innings ; then the Syrian suburb bad the
mortification on Saturday last of seeing two of its men
pile up 244 between them, and all for nothing. Padding-
ton just managed to down Middle Harbor by 46 runs on
the first innings, the figures being 218 to 172.
The result of the round is to leave Glebe in
possession of the box-seat with 14 competition points,
and Central Cumberland next best with 10 points,
while Waverley and University have eight and six respec-
tively. After that there is a great gulf wherein nine
clubs sit in various degrees of darkness and deficit, rang-
ing from one to 11 points behind nothing.
• * * *
A marvellous cricket coincidence occurred at
Kaiapoi (M.L.) recently. A bowler, named Mason, in a
team from Christchurch, did the hat trick in the first
innings and repeated the performance in the second, the
victims, strangely enough, being' the same three batsmen
who were disposed of in the first innings, and they were
bowled in the same order.
» * * *
The victorious walk-over which Arnst scored
ao-ainst Webb is further evidence that, in rowing, weight
and brute force count for a lot, and that the skilful big 1
man is better than the much more skilful little man.
The weary tales of how Arnst had developed a tendency
to carry his head on one side, and jerk his left elbow out
when walking, or something equally ominous, have all
been discounted as mere writers’ flam. The unfortunate
scribe who has to fill so much space in his paper with
gossip about two men who are going to pull a race, or
fi<rht a scrap, counts for little in the da} 7 of reckoning.
Man for man, Arnst had greater strength of arm,
back and leg than Webb, and he was able to put
sufficient of that extra weight and strength into the
motion of his boat to beat the man who is admittedly the
more graceful and finished sculler of the pair. The race
was according 1 to Webb, decided in the first mile and a
half. Arnst sprang to the front, and Webb, after vainly
spurting till a mile and a half had been covered, realised
he had found his Cannae and was donkey-licked. He did
all that a brave man could do by pulling gamely to a
finish and then owning up that he had been fairly beaten.
Arnst took his victory quietly enough, and announced
that he is in the business for money. Therefore he will
row' where the most money offers.
• • * •
The final of the 18ft. championship of N.S.W.
on Saturday last resulted in Australian running easily
into first piace, followed by Donnelly, Vision and Eileen
in that order. This gave Australian the right to repre-
sent N. S. Wales at the inter-State carnival at Perth.
Oweenee, w’hich w'as ahead of Australian on points, was
biffed out of Saturday’s race by measurement restric-
tions ; and, in any case, the skiff could not have repre-
sented the State at Perth. In Saturday’s. contest Aus-
tralian was eminently suited by the conditions, and in a
favorable environment Christian Webb simply walked
over everything else.
• • *
The swimming contest at the new municipal
baths in the Sydney Domain, on Saturday, for the 300yds.
championship of the State resulted in the coveted honor
changing owners. Cecil Healy, the previous holder of
the title, was on hand to defend his top-knot, ana swam
like the good one that he is. Blit at 250yds., amid tre-
mendous excitement, Harold Hardwicke suddenly
spurted, wiped out the 2yds. between him and Healy, and
challenged the champion. Healy responded, but Hard-
wicke went away like a porpoise and won out by a good
6vds. in 3min. 37 2-ssec., which was 4 2-ssec. better than
Healy and 5 3-ssec. outside Keiran’s world record for the
distance, put up in Farmer’s baths in the same quarter
on February 25,1905.
The carnival also took on the form of a welcome
to that sterling all-round athlete, “Snowy” Baker, who,
with F. Lane, another well-known natatorial artist, gave
an amazing display of high and spring-board diving. A
new feature brought back from the old world by Baker
was the “swallow dive,” in which he flew down with a
beautiful bird-like motion and entered the water like a
swallow disappearing into a haze of sunlight, ihe
Catherine wheel dive is an extraordinary evolution, in
which three men holding one another hurl themselves in
a solid mass off the tower, and, revolving like the fire-
work the evolution is called after, enter the water more
or less gracefully.
At the same time, Beaurepaire, at St. Kilda,
Melbourne, won the 440yds. swimming championship of
the Bent State in smin. 55 2-ssec. This doesn t compare
with Kieran’s smin. 19sec., made at Lavender Bay (Syd-
nev) on April 1, 1905. But “ Bogey ” won by 20yds. and
the absence of push no doubt accounts for the stripling s
rather slow time.
Talking of swimming brings the mind to surf-
bathinv. Writer spent an hour on a recent Sunday
afternoon on Manly Beach, and while there no less than
three rescues were effected. What struck him was the
sheer insanity of the people who, being obviously unable
to swim, yet go into water that is full of shifting currents.
When rescues were effected the life-saver went out with
the line and fastened a sort of life-belt to the Person
was in difficulties and drifting over Jordan. Why doesn t
each bather wear some sort of lifebelt all the time not
necessarily a large one which will hamper him very much,
but something sufficient to keep him afloat till help can
arrive should he get into difficulties? Of course, anyone
eoing in' at present with a cork breast-plate would be
Duved, but if the Council insisted upon such a thing being
worn it would probably increase the number of surf-
bathers, and reduce the list of those who get drowned
and injured through ignorance, inability to swim, and
the sudden changes of the currents. In fact, writer will
give a faithful promise that, if the Council will insist upon
the cork breast-plate innovation, he will himself shift
down to Manly for the summer and display his own
Apollo-like figure in the breakers at least once a day.
And with his physical beauty and Johnson s stomach
both on view simultaneously, Manly simply must boom.
* * * *
Buried away in Forbes (N.S.W.) is a man who
would be invaluable in another place—plenty of other
places, in fact. He is, or rather was, secretary of a bicycle
club in that western town, and this is how he lashed out at
the club and all concerned with it at the annual meeting:
before handing in his resignation : “There are plenty of
men who attend the annual meeting and participate in
the election of officers, and who are ever ready to take
part in a club race, but who will not pay their subscrip-
tions Among these are committeemen and officers....
For the ensuing year members want to be very particular
about their committee. What is wanted are men who
will work for the good of the club . . . and not shirk their
responsibilities by leaving things in the hands of the
secretary. Now as to the secretary- In choosing your
secretary you want to be very particular. So far as this
club is concerned, the secretary wants to be a man with
plenty of time at his disposal; a man who doesn t object
to being made a convenience of ; and last and not least, an
accomplished ‘ smoodger.’... The ba11,., was financially a
failure, .. . due to the apathy of the members. All the
work, . . . worry, . . . and none of the credit fell to Mr.
and myself. ... At the close of the ball the only club
member, responsible or otherwise, on the premises was
myself.” Then he ran on to deal with finance and rub a
few more enemies in the gutter, and finally handed in his
resignation, and sternly refused to consider a request of
the club that he would allow himself to be appointed for
another term. A good curse like this from a secretary is
very refreshing these degenerate days.
* * * *
Sydney University Rugby footballer H. Bullock,
selected as the next Rhodes scholar, has represented in
international and inter-State matches, and was possibly
the best forward in Australia last season. 11 was only the
desire to study that kept Bullock from visiting England
with the touring “ Wallabies ” ; .now he will have his
chance to win his “ blue” in English ’Varsity football.
* * * *
From England comes the information that the
simultaneous visit of two Australian football teamsps
having a bad effect on the “gate. This was foreseen,
but the desire to play cut-throat was too strong, and
wisdom went overboard.
The very latest lunacy in Maoriland is a
“ Marathon ’’ race. It will be held some time in March
next, at Auckland, and the distance will be just over 13
miles. Now, what’s the sense in this so-called Mara-
thon” business, anyhow? The genuine and only Mara-
thon Race is held every four years, over a distance of
about 27 miles, in connection with the Olympic Games,
and is a great event because it brings a runner into com-
petition with the whole world ; but for every little one-
eved athletic club on the planet to rush round madly
and promote races over short distances of from Six
to 13 miles, and to label them Marathon,
is ludicrous in the extreme. No one of the
slightest importance will be interested, elevated or
amused bv the fearful spectacle of a few broken-
winded and perspiring young men, arrayed in bathing
costumes and blushes, struggling through the streets of
Auckland, in the final stages of a scramble to secure a
silver wreath of great value” (to quote the prospectus
put out bv the organisers of the disturbance). This Mara-
thon ” mania is on a par with the “walk lunacy that
was so prevalent in Australia and Maoriland about five
vears ago, and which was an offshoot of the London
Stock Exchange walk. The difference, however, is that
only trained athletes are to compete in the “ Marathon
whereas anyone could undertake the ‘ walk, the result
that a number of ancient cripples, who should have
been supporting themselves on crutches, were seized by
the pedestrian craze, and nearly died on the road.
* * * *
Queensland three-year-old colt Flaxen gave
further proof that he is something out. of the ordinary
bv winning the Summer Cup, If miles, with Bst. 121 b. up,
in 3min. 3isec., which is only 3sec. outside the Australian
record. As Flaxen was eased after entering the straight,
and Eagle Farm Racecourse—it’s called Ascot these times
, i s n ot as fast as either Flepaington or Randwick, the
performance was an excellent one. Bananaland racing-
men are saving that Flaxen is the best three-year-old
that has ever run up North, while there are some who
assert that he’s the best of his age in the Commonwealth.
As he is to be specialty prepared for the A. J.C. St. Reger
next April, the truth of the latter contention will stand a
chance of being tesr.ed should be meet Alawa, Lord Nolan
and co in that race. Hitherto Queensland crack nags
have had a habit of turning out rank duffers when they
have gone south.


V
I?
'
m
m
m
mm.
nl
■
m
S ome Woman buys
for every home
and rightly so, as she goes more thoroughly into the matter than a man. The latter,
especially if he is a busy man, is inclined to take very little trouble, but the woman is
different—she wants to know the why and wherefore of everything; so that it is good policy
for the woman to do the buying. A glance at our daily batch of country letters, or a glance
into our establishment,, amply proves this, and at the same time proves that Stewart
Dawson’s has the confidence of a big of the womenfolk of New South Wales.
We attend to their wants by mail or in person promptly and carefully, and deliver all their
orders free of charge. We will be glad to post our Christmas Budget of Gifts on receipt
of a post-card.
Turquoise set 15ct. Gold Shamrock
Brooch, £3 3s.
C24os—Lily o{ the Valley Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
fine Opals and Pearls, £5 10s.
Fine Diamond, New Moon and Crescent Brooch, £6O.
Fine Diamond
Cluster Ring-, £B/10/-
H 1994 —Frog and
Butterfly Charm,
9ct. Gold, 6/6
18ct. Gold and Dia-
mond and Ruby
Ring, £2.
Real Turquoise find Pearl Brooch, 15ct. Gold
€6/10/-
G4sBB—9ct. Gold and Turquoise
Studded Ball Bangle, in Morocco
Case, £5.
G 7657 —Handsome Pearl Set
Oct. Gold Photo. Pendant, £2.
GSB79—9ct. Gold, Pearl and
Turquoise Brooch, 20/-
200A-i6ct. Gold Links, £l/15/-
9ct. Gold Links, £l/1/-
G 8471 —Carved Greenstone
and 9ct. Gold Links, 25/-
i
(AUSTRALIA')
stband corner , GE orm
tnivi'm'a
&
OUR NEW CYCLE CATALOGUE
IS READY!
Write—call—or send for it, and we can promise you the most
interesting catalogue on Cycles yet published. < Full of points
on honest cycle-building, and exact specifications of each
B. & B. MODEL.
BE ANXIOUS TO SEE IT.
ASK NOW!
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-building'
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
mn
THIN PEOPLE.
THERE is now no reason why every man or woman should
not acquire or regain a Perfect Figure. If you want
to add fiesh, be made plump and rosy, gain weight,
strength and beauty, send for a Free Trial Treatment of
the “ Miracula” Nerve Food and Flesh Developer.
This newly-discovered Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing
Agent and Flesh Builder. It will seaaa put your nerves
rigtit, tone up your digestive organs ; and the alteration in you
will astonish yourself and friends. Would you like to have
perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all
scragginess ? You can easily obtain this blessing if you
write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps to pay postage
on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
m
LOOdOll Spociolitios Apncy, Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
CL
BILLIARDS'F°R
Wt’AOME
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to "'be placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific ga, '■
PRICES from 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCR<&Co.
422 GEORGE ST SYDMEY .
imUIABETHS
MELbOURrtE
The N.S.W. police are still toiling over
two mysteries—the fatal bashing by night of Fie
Kee Yang, who was found oh December 1, a
perjshed Chinaman on the floor of his shop in a
Sydney back street; and the cutting of the throat
of Hannah Kelly, the Armidale servant girl, who
was unaccountably slaughtered in her bed, in
the early morning, a few days later. As
regards Fie Kee Yang the law seems to be up
against the dead wall of the inscrutability of Asia.
There is even a difficulty about locating the de-
ceased’s identity; he had various names, as so
many Chows have, and the witnesses seem also to
have various names apiece, and they alb look
alike, except the corpse, and they all appear to
know really nothing worth mentioning. And as
regards Hannah Kelly there is a vague report
that a man was seen running a few yards or a
mile or two from the scene of the tragedy ; he was
either running away from the hotel or towards it;
and he transpired either a little before the murder
or a little after it, or else at the exact moment of
the episode. It may even turn out upon further
investigation that he was seen running in an adja-
cent town the previous week. The whole story is
sketchy and unfinished to the last degree.
Various people are already to the front
with names for the Federal capital, which is fixed
on paper, and will probably soon be unfixed in
reality. “Edward” and “Ed ward ia *' are two
of the clumsy propositions already to hand. A
name will also be wanted for the Federal port on
•Tervis Bay. The Bulletin suggest Hughes Port,
just to lemind Mr. Hughes’ waterside consti-
tuents that their representative toiled for all he
was worth to get the Federal port established
only 87 miles from Sydney, where it must ulti-
mately intercept all that city’s southern export
trade, instead of at Twofold Bay, 300 miles away,
where it would gather a new trade of its own
from Monaro and East Gippsland.
Stand alone
for Quality
& Wear.
mm M
fa,-*
m
..
IH
' • :jaf yf/. *
Li’* .
■• v • ,; f\>*h
5
m ,
I ; ■ > .
KB
. •>. 'l‘
* > \->*V
w writs'
sHOuwißi^o^wMaf
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Manufacturers of General Rubber Goods,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z


A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Wishbone BROOCH, set Pearl,
Ruby or Sapphires,
4/6-
7K
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, Amethyst
Heart Centre,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Forget-Me-Not” Spray and Heart
BROOCH,
13/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ivy Leaf BROOCH, set Rubies or
Sapphires,
15et. Gold, 25/; Diamond Set, 40/.
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar BROOCH, Diamond-cut
Amethyst Centre,
17/6-
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Scroll BROOCH, set Pearls
and Rubv or Sapphire,
20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold “Lily of the Valley” SPRAY, set
'■‘earls and Rnbies or Sapphires,
20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Secret Name BROOCH, set
Diamond and Rubies or Sapphires,
£2/10/-.
3 Diamonds, £3, £4, £5.
fr
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set Fine
White Pearls,
£2/5/--
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2/10/-- , ,
Set with 3 Diamonds, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
2t. Gold BROOCH, set Fine Opals, Ruby,
and Pearls,
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set Fine Pure
Double-cut Diamonds, Pearls, and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-.
FOR XMAS.
a Gift for Xmas, a Handsome Piece of Jewellery carries with it more
Appreciation and Real Pleasure than anything else you can give.
HERE ARE A FEW HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS.
FREE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin and
Slipper Charm,
5/6- Large, 7/6.
Sent Post Free to
to any Address. It’s
a useful book of
over 3000 Illustra-
tions, and is well
worth having. Write
for a copy to-day
It’s yours for the
asking, and you’ll
receive it by return
of mail.
a
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Xmas
Bell CHARM,
7/6-
With Pin and
Chain, 10/6.
OPEN
FACE,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
“Unrivalled” Knockabout Lever WATCHES,
f-plate Keyless Movement, Patent Adjusted
Balance, Dust and Water Proof Cases,
20/-.
Higher Grade, 25/, SO/, 35/.
Kept in free repair for one year.
higher
GRADE,
25/-
DO YOUR
SHOPPING
BY POST.
We offer you the
same advantages as
is afforded local pat-
rons, and you can
rely on everything
being exactly as re-
presented. All
goods sent carriage
free to any address,
with the exception
of Clocks and China-
ware.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart
CHARM, Raised
‘ ‘Forget-Me-N ot’ ’
Sprays, 10/--
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scarf
PIN, set Pure
Pearls, 12/tS-
-15c t. Gold, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
Fine Pearls and Diamond-
cut Amethyst Centre,
£3-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold i-Hoop RING,
set Fine Pure Opals,
£2/10/-.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 12/6
15ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, with Safety Chain attached, £3/10/--
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
30/-.
All Diamonds, £B.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3/10/-.
All Diamonds. £5.
N
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/101-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Lever, f-plate
Movement, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly Regulated and
Adjusted, £2-
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/.
In Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £2O.
Guaranteed for 2,3, 4, and 5 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold CROSS, set
Pearls and Ruby or Sap-
phire, 20/--
Smaller, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Cross-over
RING, set Fine Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
-£2O-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Oval LINKS,
22 /«.
15ct. Gold, £2.
Initials Engraved Free of
Charge.
Our system of Free Car-
riage on Goods to any
part of the Country means
a big saving to you.
nm
With the exception oi
Clocks and Chinaware, we
send all Goods Carriage
Free to any part of Aus-
tralasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Curb ALBERT, made in our own workshops, £3. Heavier, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/,
£7/10/. 15ct. Gold, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
In 14kt. Patent Gold Filled, 20/, 25/, 30/. Any special design made to order. Single Alberts, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6
OPEN
FACE,
10/-
/
s
M*
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Rlnek Open-fare Keyless
WATCHES. Splendid Timekeepers,
10/ .
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/, 30/. All guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine Pure
Double-cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£B/10/-.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Cluster RING,
set Fine Pure Double-cut
Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £B/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold NECKLET, in every style, 12/6, 15/,
17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/. 15ct. Gold, 30/, 35/, 40/.
9ct. Gold MUFF CHAINS, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£4/10/, £5, £5/10/. In 15ct. Gold, £4/10/, £5,
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7, £7/10/.
SOLID
SILVER.
25/-
n
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting Key-
less WATCHES, |-plate, Keyless, Pa-
tent Adjusted Balance, Higher
Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/. Solid Gold,
£3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10, £5/10/,
£6/10, £7/10, £S/10/, £lO to £25.
Guaranteed 1,2, 3,4, and 5 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct; Gold Bird and Spray BROOCH, set Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise,
5/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar Name BROOCH, Raised
Flowers,
10/-.
15ct. Gold, 15/ (Name Engraved Free).
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Dinna Forget” BROOCH,
Amethyst Thistles,
20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire,
17/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bird BROOCH, Pearl-set Birds,
20/-.
U!(UVflEa'fii I
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, Diamond-set
Heart,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond-cut
Amethyst Centre,
25/-.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, set Pure Double-
cut Diamond,
£3/5/-, £4, £4/10/-,
according to size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
sct. Gold 2-Bar Buckle BROOCH, set Fine
Pure White Pearls,
35/--
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold “Lily of the Valley*’ Spray
BROOCH, set Fine White Pearls,
£4.
A. SAUNDERS.
ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Fine Opals and
4 Pure Double-cut Diamonds,
£2/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
it. Gold Cluster BROOCH, set Fine Pure
Double-cut Diamonds, Ruby or Sapphire
Centre,
£l2/10/-.
All Diamonds, £2O.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sj'iney, N.S.W.


V*&!
■
f'
: .f' .
-
-
■
•.
£?l
« •’
5S
Pp«
i
@«9*^
..
■ rflfc ...
mm
a: ■■■
-'
%
m ?-1
?*¥
MgM
■ •-
■
.
-
•s *.*#,•
w
• > -
:...
#•**«***»
58-sS;
V '
>. ■" :
. /■'■■ r.
/.I?Y>. V
U-
tl
-iO'. H
m
r S
r >y
e A^s
1
&
<5?
/ Y
A.
O
Or
4/
o
<
o
X?
<
n
c>
•2
*y
0
■
.
- ••••..
Ml
W)
.
I
m
a
—*“X ■- - '. ■ t
J\,\THo
s^'
/
xV
A
P
*
-Or
5T
s
Cc
m
<
cc
o
v
V;
&
V
vH
e
&
V y
l/cSliL£\ ”"*yy
-
Pj*
C
CO
o
as
Interstate Mdil
Steamship Lines
HEIST MAS
having arrived,
with its due k,
turkey, heavy
pudding, dyspep-
sia, and high
temperatures, it becomes
necessary to put in a word for the
Five Companies which drag people
around Australia and drag them back again.
Now, as a matter of fact, though people will sniff
incredulously, the quintet of shipping companies
becomes of imperative necessity to the intending
traveller at the Christmas season, seeing that, if
he wants to go away, he elects, in a number of
cases, for a voyage by sea. That solemn fact is
indisputed. People, in truth, generally save up
during the year for a “trip abroad,” since,
to the bulk of them, this rather common
Christian period of festival is, apart from
its incredible pudding and holly and things,
the annual holiday time. And, accepting the
time in its true and antique sense of “holy day
—enjoying it holily—that is, of course, festively,
but sanely and recreatively, it is not surprising
that the Five Companies pouch from them many
a steamer fare. On board a steamer that is push-
ing along between Melbourne and Sydney, or
between Adelaide and Melbourne, there is indeed
everything that suggests festivity with sanity and
recreation. The heat, which often at Christmas
cliase3 people into few clothes and a passion for
temperance drinks on land, hasn t nearly such a
deadly potency at sea. It’s bite is tempered by a
cool sea wind, and the uncomfortable effects
which it produces of plain man steaming and
vaporising are reduced to a minimum, if not
entirely removed. Even the pudding—the inevit-
able penance for all of those who in Australia
are English before they are sensible—doesn’t
seem the same sort of pudding at sea. On
land, where it is ravaged by fat people at a
temperature of 104°, and is slowly con-
sumed by a mass of simmering and
olefiant lady or gentleman in a state
of acute strangulation, it isn’t a
convincing argument for the
Christmas which every well
brought up person spends
more or less dutifully. But,
at sea, the dark brown food,
which is always a . monu-
ment of mystery and patient
labor, ia a very different
matter. Somehow, its ironclad characteristics and
leaden heaviness have assumed a lightness, a fairy-
like airiness. But it is not a change in substance—it
is the same portentous comestible—it is the change
in its surroundings ! If the heat is inclined to be
clamorous—which is rare—there are electric fans
in the saloon ; there is cold liquid all round ; and
every vestige of cool breeze to be had is floating
through the open ports. Under such conditions,
even the sorrowful and penitential concealment of
a tremendously over-estimated bit of nourishment
changes from a popular evil to a something ap-
proaching delight. Now, could such a contrast
between sea and land be fairer or more trium-
phant ?
Now, if there is anything that the prospective
holiday-maker at Christmas resents it is the
possibility of ceremonial while on holiday—of, in
fact, making himself or herself a sort of rigid
religious service in a lot of pretentious clothes.
The ordinary man and woman—and by them are
meant the modest, sensible people which even
every sporting community can produce at a pinch
—wants to be left very much alone in his or her
clothing arrangements while on holiday. Any-
thing does—that is to say, anything that is sub-
stantial and of superior extent to bathing cos-
tumes, fur waistlets, or glass beads, is not censur-
able, because the spirit of holiday must be liberty
without licence in a lot of things that in other cir-
cumstances are strongly and properly regarded.
And it is just on that highly-important point
of dress that life on a steamship has some appreci-
able advantages over that on land. The dif-
ference between the two is not obvious until you
come to think of it—for, generally speaking, holi-
day attire is generally unconventional and careless
wherever it may be. But the point of difference
between what is de rigueur on a steamship and on
land lies in the fact that no one is ever expected
to be a swell on an inter-State steamship, while,
at, say, any popular land resort, one sometimes is.
It is the difference between option and compara-
tive compulsion, and a very solid difference it is !
Thus, for that reason alone, a trip by one of the
steamers of the Five Companies is to be recom-
mended. They don’t ask a person to be attired as
if for a coronation. They leave it to the passen-
ger’s good sense to dress as he or she thinks fit, so
long as he or she doesn’t incline to questionable
eccentricity or foolishness. On the other hand,
at many a fashionable watering place or inland
resort, a person who is not prepared to be impres-
sive, when he or she ought to be indulging in a
sort of sartorial vagabondage, is rather looked
upon as a shocking person, who is very much out
of place. Yet it must not be assumed that any-
one cannot be a toffy perfection on board one of
the steamers afore-mentioned. He or she can, if he
or she likes. But also he or she can just idle
about in the simplest and plainest things, if he or
she likes. That is one of the virtues of a trip by
sea.
CS?
But by far the largest consideration to the
thoughtful passenger, who contemplates a run
round to one of the capitals, are the recuperative
and health-giving possibilities of the voyage. One
does not understand what air is until one gets to
sea, away from the curious, lively, and almost
tangible mixture that does dutyfor atmosphere in a
big city. In a big city, or even in sparsely-inhabited
spots, the air has got to make room for variously-
assorted effluvia, germs, dirt, grit, bluestone, and
other unsuspected substances; whereas, out at
sea, the germs, effluvia, etc., being essentially
land dwellers, drop out of the huge masses of
breath by their superior weight and get drowned
in the coastal seas before they have any chance
of getting further out, to prove a nuisance
to a passing steamer. As a matter of
fact, such things are not met with out at
sea. The air is so pure that it isn’t noticed.
The passenger, who is idling about the deck in
informal raiment, or reading, or spilling tempestu-
ous gallantries to a nice girl in a nook, doesn’t
think of it—or, if he does, imagines he is breathing
vacuum, and an unflavored one at that. Taking
that point into consideration, and also the facts
that there is only restriction to the distance one
may roam, and no restriction to gorgeous eating
and loafing, and even to flirting—if one is young
and ambitious—the intending holiday-maker can-
not but recognise the superiority of a short sea-
trip over a long land one, for instance. Granted
that the land holiday provides a greater selection
of girl and diversions—yet it is
still inferior to the sea one,
by reason of the sea’s
superior health-giving
benefits. If any per- -
son doesn’t believe
it, let him or her
try a sea-trip by
proceeding, as a
first step, to the
offices of the Five.
Companies for par-
ticulars of Christmas
fares.


Amusements.
MER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
n Lessee and Manager :J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING at 7.50 sharp.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
(Including: MISS BETTY OHLS, MR. ANDREW
HIGGINSON, VICTOR GOURIET, REGINALD
ROBERTS, W. S. PERCY, CLAUDE BANTOCK,
D. B. O’CONNOR, IVY SCOTT, FLORENCE YOUNG
and others), in Lehar’s World Famous Work,
THE MERRY WIDOW.
HEA T R E ROYAL, sTdnTl
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
Grand Revival, on a Scale of Great Completeness,
THE SIGN OF THE CROSS.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as MARCUS SUPERBUS.
Miss BEATRICE DAY as MERCIA.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
ALACE THEAT R E, S Y D N E Y.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
DAILY AT 2,
Pantomime of ROBINSON CRUSOE.
NIGHTLY AT 8,
EDWIN GEACII’S COMPANY in
THE WOMAN PAYS.
35., 25., & Is. POPULAR PRICES. Is., 25.. & 3s.
Geo. Marlow, Manager.
RITERION S Y D IM E Y.
Lessee: Mr. FRANK MUSGROVE.
Sub-Lessee and Manager : Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 26 (Boxing Night),
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, including Australia’s Talented
Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN, in
THE GAYEST OE THE GAY.
Plan at Elvy’s. Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.
u e LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
T Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s. 6d., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
qIaCIAR IU M, SYDNEY,
ightly at 8 ; Matinees, Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
’•Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
;IGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER,
s, Is 6d, Is, &6d Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
=Tv OLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
)ODFELLOW & GREGSON, Comedians and Dancers.
J W RICKABY, Burlesque Character Comedian.
IE SISTERS RENO, Dainty Transformation Dancers.
TFKT aiid NEVVLYN, Vocaiists and Eccentric Dancers.
BSn!&K obLDli. ROOHFOKT S HART.
rn\f DAWSON NITA LKKI&.
THE FOUR MASCOTTS. GERTIE JOHNS.
tICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling s.
tPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
W Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
tOFESSOR DUNCAN’S 10 PERFORMING COLLIE
HOGS.
THREE M’GREGORS, Musical Artists.
MISS AMBER AUSTA, Eccentric Comedienne.
BARNARD TROUPE OF MANIKINS.
AMALIA and LEONORA, Equilibnstes.
CHRISTOFOLO, Equilibrist Juggler.
GEORGE SORLIE, Baton Spinner and Dancer.
Plan at Allan’s. tST PRICES 3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
i Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
.te includes BERT GILBERT, STELLA GASTELLE,
NNY DANGO, J. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHINE,
and VICTOR LOYDALL.
x Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
INCUS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GREAT CHRISTMAS ATTRACTION.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 26,
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Popular Prices.
Plan at Allan’s.
TTrTH’S 7ARK, MELBOURNE
f' ° ( p RINO ES COURT).
»rv Evening. Matinees, Wed., Sat., AIL Holidays.
AND TRAINING HORSES,
by PHILIP WIRTH. _ .
HERR CARL WILLHEIM, Wild Animal Trainer.
PETER TOURCHEIL Elephant Educator.
GUILLAUME and JOSEPHI, Comedians.
MO K SST® ?&riTIR*CT.ONS
ee=_3s 2b la. Children Half-Price. One Ticket
Admßs’to All Plan at Glen’s. ’Phone 1113 City.
lINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Frank Thornton.
Direction of Edwin £kach.
IMEN ° IN WANrTHORNTON '
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
EARFWELL FOR EVER TO AUSTRALIA.
>es—3s 2s Is. Plan at Allan’s. Booking Fee, Is.
,es da., 25., l albert CLARK, Acting Manager.
HEATRE ROYAL, ME LB OUR N E.
ORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
PV THF MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CASTE.
ces—ss., 2s. 6d„ Is. Plan a_t_Alla_n’s.
i j d + H’S OLYMPIA,
/ ' PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
EDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
BEST’S PICTURES IHI! STll.
all THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week,
iv Picture worthy of note to be seen at WLbl S
West’s Grand Military Band. _
IPULAR PRICES. liox Plan .. a L <> l e l!±
u
WHAT IS CATARRH?'
|C AT ARRH is inflammation ofthe lining' "‘“j'Sn
of the nose and passages wind ’ l? t ad marine,
pepsia. and consumption.
p . M PY'R MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Cola* Hay
Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings t
cator complete, with 4 months' treatment, post free-
UTAH. NOVF t ‘TY C 0 229 Collins*st„ Melbourne.
m
at your
SERVICE
Cinematographic Films
For Hire.
We have over 250,000 feet of films and every
accessory in stock ; do repair work quickly and
neatly ; and have competent operators always ready
to assist you.
ENTERTAINMENTS GIVEN.
We go anywhere to give moving picture enter-
tertainments at Concerts, Bazaars, Parties, etc. Our
films are specially selected for such occasions and our
charges most reasonable.
y<ir-v -Q -ipw a -at >o (formerly Osborn &. Jerdan)
J 1L- JtV MJ /\. “MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
!B0
M
nm
n
Prepare for a Good Position! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a
training'within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your
thorough and
own home.
practical
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
Every
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations,
student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
... Is
.... 10d
Publications.
f-OR POSTING HOME.
buy AUSTRALIA TO-BAY, 1909.
The National Annual. Profusely Illustrated, 1/6.
Postage—Commonwealth and -New Zealand, 2d. ; United
Kingdom, 7d. ; Elsewhere Abroad, Bd.
Missing Friends.
CURLEY.— JEREMIAH JOSEPH, last
heard of at Lytton, Queensland, in 1900.
Anyone knowing his whereabouts please com-
municate _ . _
A. E. HEALY,
G.P.0., Sydney.
OWAND.-CHARLES ROWAND,
formerly of Gippsland. Your father dead.
Apply to me for money due to you.
PERCY BLACKBOURN,
120 Queen Street, Melbourne.
STANDARD BRICK MACHINE
mn
Makes Twenty {
Concrete Bricks
One Operation.
Three men
make 5000 per
day. Make
your Bricks
on the job.
Write for
particulars.
J. J. STEELE,
Sole Agent,
104 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10l-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner itrand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [5
<?
tv
o
V
a
V
“fTCK
The man in the illustration is “Driven by Friction”
to leave his happy (?) home.
The “1.H.C.” Gasolene Traction Engine is Driven by Friction any-
WheV No complicated set of driving gears—simpiy two Friction Wheels.
Mn “ Waitina for steam,” no boiler, no smoke, no cinders.
WondeZuy easy To handle, and can be backed and started imth an
accuracy Quite impossible with any gear-drive engine.
First sold out; twenty more due to arrive February, 1909,
md Nothing of the market like it; well worth the while of any
Mon January Ist, 1909, for delivery by May 1909, will
be accepted under terms of our Extraordinary Special Offer, appte
nko to other types of “1.H.C.” Engines — Stationary, Portable and Hoisting.
Nothing nearly so favourable ever previously offered to Australian
Engine buyers. Find out about it before it's too late.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Bank Street, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & Co., Perth—General Agents for Western Australia .
%y. "#W'h
4m
i g
- : -
W.
fS
&
s&£
: x-
-* , -.
(255)
lth “I H C/’ Gasolene Engine at Tullamarine, Vic.


Abridged Advertisement of PROSPECTUS of
TEXTILE FIBRE LIMITED.
(To be Registered under the Companies Acts of Victoria as a Limited Company.)
CAPITAL - - £120.000 IN 120,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
60,000 Shares (fully paid up) to be issued to tbe Vendor in part payment for tbe option
and rights hereinafter referred to.
60,000 Shares to be offered for public subscription at ss. per Share on Application,
ss. per Share on Allotment, and ss. by Call at 3 months. The balance of ss.
by Calls not exceeding 2s. 6d. per Share at any one time, if and as required.
120,000
The following have agreed to act in the undermentioned capacities, if elected: —
DIRECTORS—
It. 0. BLACKWOOD, Esq., Hartwood, Deniliquin, New South Wales, grazier.
A. D. HART, Esq., 8 Stewart Street, Melbourne, manager.
JAMES BYRNE, Esq., 350 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, shipping agent.
J. A. MITCHELL, Esq., 9 Queen Street, Melbourne, master mariner.
A. E. BRAUND, Esq., 561 Bourke Street, Melbourne, director.
W. J. NEWBIGIN, Esq., 521 Collins Street, Melbourne, engineer.
MANAGING DIRECTOR—
L. G. DRIFFIELD, Esq., 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
MARINE ADVISER—
Captain JAMES A. MITCHELL, 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BANKERS—
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED, Melbourne and Port Pirie.
SOLICITORS and AUDITORS—
(To be appointed at the first meeting of the Company).
AGENTS—UNITED KINGDOM AND AUSTRALASIA—
Messrs. DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED.
OBJECTS.
THE company ia being formed with the object of purchasing from the Fibrous Deposit Company
Proprietary Limited the option it holds of purchasing on or before the 31st January, 1909, for
£17,500, the rights of Paris Nesbit, Alexander John M‘Lachlan, and John Mellis Napier,
under Permits Nos. 446, 447, and 448, from the Commissioner of Crown Lands of the Govern-
ment of South Australia to remove fibrous deposits.
The Permits are for one year, from Ist June, 1908, with right of renewal for twenty years on the
following conditions:—
(a) That annual payment be made to the Government of 2J per cent, royalty on actual value of
fibre raised during year.
(b) That area be reasonably worked to the satisfaction of the Honorable the Commissioner of
Crown Lands.
(c) That not less than two men be continuously employed, or that not less than £lOO be expended
during each year in obtaining or preparing fibre from such area, or in work in connection
therewith.
(d) That in working area, navigation, or the use of the foreshore for other purposes, must not be
interfered with or impeded.
Each Permit is renewable on payment before expiry of each year.of the sum of £25, provided that
all the conditions have been satisfactorily complied with.
The proposed Company is to win, work, and make marketable the fibrous deposit mentioned in
the abovementioned permits.
The reports of Captain James A. Mitchell, 9 Queen-street, Melbourne, master mariner; Mr.
Walter Gaunt, Alfred Woollen Mills, Williamstown; and Messrs. Fyvie and Stewart, 34 Queen-
street, Melbourne, engineers, convey to intending shareholders an idea of the quantity and value of
the deposit of fibre, of the uses to which it can be put, of the estimated cost of plant required, and
the estimated cost of recovery. '
The main facts to be gathered from the said reports are as follows:
Vide Captain James A. Mitchell’s report: —15 square miles of deposit, of an average depth of
13ft., at an average depth of 4ft. lOin. under water.
Vide Messrs. Fyvie and Stewart’s reportAn estimated quantity of 2,013,440 tons of fibre.
Vide Messrs. Fyvie and Stewart’s report Cost of complete plant, £15,530.
Vide Messrs. lyvie and Stewart’s report:—Estimated working charges, interest, and insurance
for 1300 tons daily (24 hours) of crude material ... ... ... ... £3O o o
Producing on the basis of 1 per cent, recovery 13 tons of fibre daily (24) hours, value at £lO
P erton £l3O 0 0
Vide Mr. Walter Gaunt’s report:—For the purpose of mixing with wool, in place of other unions,
valued at 3d. per lb., £2B per ton.
Summarised.
60,000 shares paid up to 15s. each
Less estimated cost of complete plant
Less cash to complete consideration for purchase
Less balance due to complete option
Less estimated preliminary expenses
Estimated Capital
Requirements.
... £45,000 0 0
£15,530
1,500
17,500
500
Estimated balance cash on hand after all initial expenses paid
NOTE.—There is still a calling power of ss. per share, £15,000, but it is hoped the
be selling the fibre as recovered, and that this amount may l.ot be required.
£35,030 0 0
£9,970 0 0
company will
REVENUE.
To effectively work the company’s leases, several dredges will be required. The estimated revenue
from each dredge should be as follows
By 13 tons of fibre per day on a 1 per cent, recovery at the conservative estimate of
£lO per ton .“. £l3O 0 0
NOTE.—There is reason to believe that at a depth both the value of the fibre and
percentage of recovery will increase.
To working charges per day £3O 0 0
Royalty payable to the South Australian Government, 2i per cent.
on £l3O “ 3 5 0 *
.. , _ , . £33 5 0
Estimated balance before deducting management and administration expenses ... £96 15 0
The fibre will spin and weave in union with wool, and will also take the dye evenly with it, being,
so far as is known, the only vegetable fibre to do this. Further, being practically non-inflammable
(its charring point being 373 deg. F.), it is to that extent a non-conductor, unlike cotton ; also it does
not shrink. It seems, therefore, that its chief and most remunerative demand will arise for textile
purposes, partly due to a combination of above facts ; and the value of 3d. per lb., mentioned in Mr.
Gaunt’s report, does not appear extravagant, as it will favorably compete as to price with the short
staple cottons, which, it is understood, are worth at least 4.(d. per lb. at present, with the additional
advantages of .taking the wool dye and retaining the heat, neither of which attributes cotton possesses.
With regard to woollen shoddy, of which over 113,000,0001 b. were imported into Great Britain in
1907 [vide Dalgety’s Wool Review, September. 1908), it is far superior to the lower grades, and more
than equal in many respects to the higher grades, the former values being from 3d. to 4d. per lb., and
the latter ranging up to 6d. per lb., and at the same time it will form a union with either or both. In
addition to'the further uses to which the fibre may be put, reflected in Mr. Gaunt’s report— viz. , Low
Carpets, Coir Matting, Hessian, Bagging, and probably Woolpacks—it has been demonstrated that
it is useful for stuffing or upholstery purposes, competing with flock and kapok. The market price of
the former is approximately £l6 per ton, and the latter sd. per lb. f.o.b. Java.
From the foregoing it will be seen that the vendor believes that the permits are not only exceeds
ingly valuable, but that the possibilities are almost unlimited. The world’s production of cotton for
1905-6 (the latest date available) was 18,125,000 bales of 5001 b. each. The production in the United
States alone for the year 1906-7 was 13.273,809 bales of 6001 b. each, valued at 640,311,538 dollars, whilst
the imports of kapok into the Commonwealth for 1907 were valued at £84,000. The various materials
that have been manufactured from the fibre in union with wool, as also the material in its various
stages of manufacture with wools of various descriptions, and also by itself, dyed and undyed, may
be seen at the office of the vendor company, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne. The fibre is the result of
the sheddings of the leaf sheaths of a sea-grass, botanically known as Posidonia Australis, found in
Spencer Gulf, South Australia, where the sheddings have been imprisoned by the action of wind
and waves in the sand flats referred to in Captain James A. Mitchell’s report.
PLANS.
Complete plans of the deposit, also locality plan, are on view at the office of the promoter, at
31 Queen-street, Melbourne, and intending shareholders are invited to inspect the same.
The following information is supplied pursuant to the Companies Act, 1896 :
(a) The names and addresses and occupations of promoters and directors, and the number of
shares held or agreed to be taken up by them respectively :
PROMOTER.
THE FIBROUS DEPOSIT COMPANY PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
31 Queen-street, Melbourne.
DIRECTORS OF PROMOTER.
R. O. Blackwood, Esq., Hartwood, Deniliquin, New South Wales, grazier.
A. D. Hart, Esq., 8 Stewart-street, Melbourne, manager. , t
James Byrne, Esq., 350 Flinders-lane, Melbourne, shipping agent.
J. A. Mitchell, Esq., 9 Queen-street, Melbourne, master mariner.
A. E. Braund, Esq., 531 Bourke-street, Melbourne, director.
W. J. Newbigin, Esq., 521 Collins-street, Melbourne, engineer.
L. G. Driffield, Esq. (managing director), 31 Queen-street, Melbourne, accountant.
The above have agreed to become directors of the proposed Company, if elected.
The Fibrous Deposit Company Proprietary Limited has a capital of £lO,OOO, divided into 100
shares of £lOO each, of which 50 fully paid-up shares have been issued.
The Shares held by the present Directors'of that Company are as follows :
SHARES.
R. O. Blackwood, Esq
A. D. Hart, Esq
James Byrne, Esq.
J. A. Mitchell, Esq.
A. E. Braund, Esq.
L. G. Driffield, Esq. ...
W. J. Newbigin, Esq.
2
1
3
2
h
3
h
The minimum subscription on which the directors will proceed to allot is 40,000 shares*
For the purposes of the Companies Act of Victoria, 1896, this advertisement does not comply with the requirements of Section 104, and the public
are referred to the Full Prospectus.
Copies of the Full Prospectus and Forms of Application may be obtained at the office of the Promoter, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Applications for shares will proceed only on one of the Forms of Application referred to, and endorsed on or attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus. (
The Prospectus was issued on the J 7th day of December, 1908.
Applications for shares may be made direct to the office of the Vendor Company, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, or through Members of the
Stock Exchange of Melbourne.


EIESTREATED AT
TWO HOSPITALS
For Over a Year, but Baby Girl Grew
Worse—Mother Followed Friendly
Advice and There Has Been No
Return of Disease for Three Years.
ONE BOX OF CUTICURA
MADE PERMANENT CURE
“When my little girl was a few
months old, her eyes began to get sore.
Thinking it
was from
her teeth, I
was in hope
of their get-
ting better,
but as they
did not im-
prove, I de-
cided to get
medical ad-
vice. I took
her to the
Hospi-
tal a t
for about
twelve
months. The doctors there were most
kind and attentive and did all they
could for her, but her eyes seemed
to get worse. The doctor then sent me
in to the Hospital. I had only
attended that institution a short time
when a Mrs. Todd stopped me on the
street and told me that Cuticura Oint-
ment had cured her boy and advised
me to try it. I commenced using it
that very night. The cure was marvel-
ous. Her eyes soon began to get strong
and they are now as healthy as if there
had never been anything the matter
with them. The cure was completed
with less than one box of Cuticura
Ointment. My little girl was then not
three years old- She is now six and we
have never had the least trouble with
her eyes since. I trust this letter may
be the means of others being cured as
my little girl has been. Mrs. F. Phil-
lips, Grafton St., Waverly, Sydney,
N. S. W., Aug. 3, 1907.”
Complete external and internal treat-
ment for every humour of infants, chil-
dren, and adults consists of Cuticura
Soap to cleanse the skin, Cuticura Oint-
ment to heal the skin, and Cuticura
Pills (chocolate to purify the
blood. A single sec often cures.
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura B ook on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Sold throushout the world. Depots: London.
27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix;
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney: So. Africa.
Lennon, Ltd., Capetown, Natal, etc.; Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
JO
A XMAS Gift
that Appeals
to All.
The best Xmas present a man
can make his family is a Piano.
We are ready to help him in
every possible way ; we have in-
struments at various prices to
suit various means. For the man
of modest means we suggest
one or other of our two models,
the NANON or MIGNON.
They enjoy a popularity unknown
to any others at the price.
In higher-priced instruments
we offer the STEIN WAY, the
BRINSMEAD, or the FEU-
RICH— names which are
famous throughout the world.
Nothing would give us greater
pleasure than to exhibit any of
our models, and point out the
various individual merits at any
time we may be honored with
a visit.
We are quite prepared to make
the fullest allowance for old
pianos, and also to extend pay-
ment if necessary over a lengthy
period.
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co. Ltd..
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY
The summer has arrived —there is no doubt of it.
The heat is hard enough to endure, but you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to-you, but your complexion is going to be ruined unless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and your beautiful skin you prize,
and rightly so, therefore preserve them by using only
4711 Glycerine Soaps and 4711 Eau de Co ogrne. After
a day’s motoring, golf, or shopping “ 4711 ” will re resh
vou and render your skin beautifully subtle and clean,
and’ irive vou that peculiar charm which is always
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of No. 4711.
m
u
&
&
Lv-c’si j£* & iga
•e?*
HAPPY, HEALTHY CHILDREN
fill the home with sunshine. When they become fretful
and out of sorts, it is generally because a mild laxative
is required —not a purgative, mind ! Nothing is so truly
beneficial in such cases as a dose of California Syrup of
Figs, which the little ones accept eagerly for its delicious
flavour: and it causes no discomfort: just relieves and
corrects gently, naturally, comfortingly, overcoming the
tendency to constipation. For its perfect purity and
harmlessness, as well as for its truly beneficial effects,
it is cordially endorsed by the medical profession.
«NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.**
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and see that the package bears
the name and trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
TRADE MARK
nm
A Smart Patent Leather
Tie Shoe for Ladies
The Shoe illustrated is one of Fashion’s latest fancies—fo r
style, fit and finish it cannot be excelled.
In patent leather, with round toe and Cuban
heel, it may be had with pump soles, at - -
16/S
Or in same style, but with liand-sewn, welted sole, at 211 •
Note.—lf you should be ordering- from any-
where in Victoria, add 9d. extra for postage,
or Is. if from any other State. Send for
“ Shoelight,” our illustrated booklet— free.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne; 1 and 3 Errol St.,
North Melbourne ; 303‘Ohapel St., Prabran.
$a -CyctZyb
I Barnet Glass Cycle Tyres are made
in two varieties, the “Flite” and the
“ Daddy.”
The “Flite” Red Road-Racing Tyres
and Roadsters, with the fluted tread,
are made from the finest rubber, and
for good work, under any and all
conditions, will give better satisfaction
and longer
wear than any
other Cycle
Tyre made.
Ask your
dealer to show
you the
Barnet Glass
Cycle Tyres.
BARNET
GLASS
RUBBER
CO.,
226 Flinders
Lane,
Melbourne,
and
234 Clarence
St., Sydney.
n
Two Grades
HlB FUT&
• &* •
3JtE • Daddy
mn
*¥AWPIIHETTE'S)
• * Enables anyone lo accompany
SONGS.etc..,, or- Piano,
Melbourne,
BaUanaf • Bendigo sc Geelong
Wm. Atkins & G®. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St, Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
o
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to-the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
Frootoids are elegant in appearance and
pleasant to take; they are immensely
more valuable than an ordinary aperient;
they remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident by the disappearance of headache,
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient medi-
cine to take when any Congestion or
Blood Poison is present, or when Conges-
tion of the Brain or Appoplexy is present
or threatening. They have been tested,
and have been proved to afford quick
relief in such cases when other aperients
have not done any good at all.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver;
a dose taken at bed-time, once a week, is
highly beneficial.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a dose
of Frootoids, instead of an ordinary
aperient. The patient thus gradually
becomes independent of Aperient Medi-
cines.
Price 1/6. Chemists, Medicine Vendors,
or the Proprietor, W. G. liearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria..
Creates a beautiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
Penetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
skin, fills out the lines and hollows and
restores its youthful appearance.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, or
from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29. Old Bond
Street, London, England.
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from Thk Bulletin Office.
121,000
The WaybacK Series.
Australia laughed, !! ! No. S.
and keeps laughing. Rea Harry w.
Dear Bulletin, —In reference to the Labor can-
didates who were defeated bv Bent’s comic
Ministers, you speak of one (B. 26/11/’08) as be-
longing to “a party free from suspicion of jobbery
and bribery.” As a supporter of Labor principles
since I was that high, I only wish your assertion
were true. While the candidate you refer to is
all you suggest, we, who know the party, are
not so sure about the political company he
keeps—or, rather, is forced into keeping
by the exigencies of party organisation.
As the only party with honest principles, the
Labor party should be the only party with wholly
honest exponents. Unfortunately, it is no use for
the supporters of Labor to blind their eyes to the
obvious shortcomings of some of those who pro-
fess the same views. No doubt it is a splendid
advertisement for a party to be able to announce
that it is the only one whose members and organ-
isers are pure and lily-white, but when the
moral smudginess of some may at any moment be
exposed by a smart Tory secretary, the pretence
becomes a tactical blunder as well as a crime.
The decent men in the Labor movement are
foolish to let it run the risk of discredit by
enduring the presence of these characters. The
Fat Minister of the Crown who is proved guilty
of taking bribes is promptly repudiated by his
party, and the subject is dropped ; but from the
time anything of the sort is proved against a
Labor man, the incident will never be allowed to
be forgotten, and it will be held up as an example
of the consequences of putting “persons of that
class” in positions of authority.—A.B.
This comes from the State of the bloated Western-
District sheep-walk :
I wandered down into the Otway forest (Vic.) last week
with a friend, who was going to look at some blocks
recently thrown open for selection. We went by train
from Oolac to a village called Beech Forest. It is a
narrow-gauge line with fearful twists in it, so that often
the guard in the van can shake hands with the engine-
driver. Fr®m Beech Forest we rode along a corduroy
road for about 14 miles. There are settlers along this
road, and their cream is collected by the Beech Forest
factory cart. After we left the farms we struck some
nerve-trying country. Some of the blocks open for selec-
tion were not bad, but lit was a circus trick to get to
them. In this dreadful country, unless you have a cor-
duroy track made of logs laid along a ridge, there is no
chance of getting a vehicle in or out of the place alive. My
selecting pal was pretty hardy, but he began to waver
when an Out-back selector told him how he got his cream
out. He showed us two cans which were fiat on one side,
and fitted with straps. These were fixed on a strong
horse (the selector insisted on the adjective), which
was led up the precipices. We saw hills that
would, I am sure, beat the strongest horse;
but the resident selector assured us it was won-
derful what a horse (providing he was strong ) could
cart up a hill on his back. The same horse had to bring
the flour, sugar, and tea back, mostly down the hills this
time ; and he had to be a smart horse then, or else the
bag of flour would get on top of him and smother him.
It was all very interesting, but I noticed that my friend
was not nearly so amused at it all as I was. And now I
think I was very easily amused, for it is really tragic ;
and the men who drag the packhorse up and down those
accursed hills are heroes. But when we got back to the
Beech Forest pub that night they told us that about 80
intending selectors had already been out to look at the
blocks. Still, says the Argus, the demand for land is
being adequately* met without any revolutionary prac-
tices. I wish I had the Argus editor packing cream out
in the Otway for a week. His language, anyway, if not
his practice, would be revolutionary.
“K.”: Speaking at Berry (N.S.W.) Minister
Perry is reported to have said :
If the children had to turn out early and milk cows,
where was the harm ?
I have lived for 20 years in a dairying district, and
I am so astonished at Perry’s query that I can
hardly answer him. Does Perry know the physi-
cal strength needed to milk an average cow in
spring-time? Does he know that the milking
of from 15 to 20 of such cows is regarded as hard
and heavy work for a man ? Does he know that
children, both boys and girls, often milk eight to
10, and sometimes more, of such cows ? If Perry
saw a girl of from 8 to 12 working, from daylight,
for three hours with a navvy’s shovel, he would (I
hope) feel indignant. Well, I can assure him (if
he has never tried it) that milking cows just now
is heavy, back-breaking and hand-straining work.
I would like Perry to look at the wrists and hands
of these youngsters after milking; and I invite
him to ask some of them how long it takes them
to get to sleep at night owing to the aching of
their arms. Also, he might inquire how many of
the youngsters have to bathe their hands in hot
(very hot) water in the morning before they can
shut their fingers close enough to grab the cows’
teats once more. Minister Perry wants to know
where the harm is. lam writing from Victoria,
but I know that the same conditions occur very
close to where he was speaking, and, it he is care-
ful to get hold of the youngsters when their heart-
less parents are not within earshot, he will soon
have his ignorance enlightened.
+
The law of N.S.W. has a curious conviction that,
while the captain of a sea-going tug of 100 or more
tons requires sleep like any other human being,
the captain of a sea-going tug of 99£ tons can keep
awake all the time. This conviction leads to
astonishing results. The master of the 100-ton
vessel has a certificated mate, and can legally
leave the vessel in his charge. The master of the
vessel has no certificated mate, and if he
wants to sleep he can only leave his vessel in the
unlawful charge of a deck-hand, and have a
snooze contrary to the letter‘and spirit of the
Act; and if the deck-hand brings the craft to
grief, the law is shocked at the misconduct of the
master in not keeping awake all round the clock,
and hangs up his certificate like the Israelite’s
harp on the willow-tree near Babylon. Treasurer
Waddell stated in the Assembly, the other
night, that the Government had this matter
“ under consideration.” Perhaps if the Govern-
ment was required to keep awake until it arrived
at a decision it would get a better understanding
of the position of the skipper of the 99|-ton vessel
whom the statute expects to remain alert from
January to December.
+
Australia’s Foreign-trade press, which has been
asserting doggedly for the past year that the
British cry for “Tariff Reform” is an election
bogey, has to put up with some severe knocks
these times. The latest is supplied by the British
Board of Trade returns recently to hand. They
show that for the month of July last there was a
decrease in the foreign trade of the United
Kingdom of £12,181,345, compared with July,
1907? Says the Blue Book
The total decrease of exports in July is caused almost
entirely by a decline of £6,106,466 in manufactured
goods. The following are the amounts of the decreases
in the principal classes of manufactured exports:—
Iron and steel .. .. .. .. £1,170,629
Other metals .. .. .. . • 232,036
Machinery .. •• •• •• 328,135
Cottons 2,382,340
Woollens •• 770,270
Other textiles 529,666
Cutlery 127,701
Apparel 166,519
The decline for the first seven months of 1908, as
compared with a similar period of 1907, is given
as £58,503,338.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
" THE, CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
2
l-'
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat 5
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“ MONTSERRAT ” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine. “MONTSERRAT
THE FOOD'
VALUE ENORMOUSLY”
lancet.
m
nm
’lO TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS I
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
k DELICIOUS
DIGESTIBLE^
COCOA!
ious d
'■OA Jr
IjjEr
n
To Users of Acetylene
U4J
Gas.
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
_ and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz,
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (&X> CO. Ltd
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : JF. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
■MORRISS 1
IMPERIAL
' ■j* JD • Jl
ointment
CURES
THE BALLET GIRL
*
1!
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froe, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Sovelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 „ G-P.O.m SYDNEY .
A Useful Christmas Present.
THE PLUM RAZOR.
The Razor that does its work properly every
day in the year—that requires little stropping
that is extra hollow, with specially-prepared keen edge.
No other Razor gives the same satisfaction.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 217-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Razors Ground and Set, 1/- each.
Craig' & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
POST FREE
ANYWHERE,
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Kingf’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Delightful Aroma and Delicate Flavor
PERFECTION
COH
mx
corn
H
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plugs, or Cut Up in Tins. 2ozs> and 4ozs.
LADIES’ TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for:
VERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
JLfl&li O RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/ij& 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
rrai a
=c
v\
y/t
\\v
I
TAKE
DON’T
DRUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health —even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude —shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning* or
blistering*, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit JSSOO to anyone proving
the contrary.
a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
mbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
10 0-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10.
CASTLEREAQH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
OFFICE HOURS : 0 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
IDtEPH 11. CORCORAN
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH ana MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name
Address
..2


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 t 0
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND 'THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street. T 0
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The fHutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR . .
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Ariiounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate ‘ and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hoi.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
|ank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 18S8.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business. *
gank of |)eui South (Hales.
Established 1817.
Head Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... .. .. .. £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... . . 2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. C. Iv. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
j William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors : -j s HEPHBA rd Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
London Office— 64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,550,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,750,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. YV. Meeks, M.L.0., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbkll-YVood, Esq. ;
\V. 0. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-et., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O (XX) 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £3O 000 0 0
Directors: F. K Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq.,O.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, bd.
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE,
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
via NEW BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA.
MANILA .. 12th JAN.
PRINZ WALDEMAR (Twin-screw) .. 9th FEB.
PRINZ SICISMUND (Twin-screw) .. 9th MAR.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
|ank of Deni Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
f'T'IHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
mn
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
December 24.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
January 20.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. . • 19 00 Co 30 9 5
New fork, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and, all other Information
on Avplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd,,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
f New Steamer. * Twin Screw.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
# HOLIDAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
*
CRUISES.'
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
SPECIAL SUMMER CRUISE TO THE
WEST COAST SOUNDS of New Zealand
THE MAGNIFICENT STEAMER WAIKARE will leave Dunedin on Saturday,
fa t/i January, for a cruise amongst the beautiful West Coast Sounds of New Zealand) passing l
about TWELVE DAYS amidst scenery surpassing even the famous Fjords of Norway.
Extra time will be allowed in Milford Sound to enable tourists to visit the SUTHERLAND FALLS (1904 ft).,
the highest in the World.
uuMAROA. leavina Sydney on the 9th January, and the turbine steamer
M a 'he NO from Melbourne on the 6th January, will connect with the WAIKARE
in Dunedin For Leaflets and Full Particulars apply
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD., 259 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
HICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
S. H. MCDONALD , Manager .
TASMANIA
.The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
HIGHFIELD
.The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged and Re-
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class Cuisine.
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &C.
Upon - all - Classes - of
g —urity mi/j
PAIR, INTEREST.
EASY TERMS V
WE
&>
$
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
rrsr.s.’W.
H|ontdePietej).#i|.Go.,[;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
“ THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit his clients. Also First-Class
Touring: Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
'EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULP PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.) J
S.S. Pilbarra, Wednesday.
December 30.
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
- January 2.
S.S. Bullarra (from Fre-
mantle to N.-West Ports),
January 12.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongala, Dec. 26.
S.S. Wollowra, Jan. 2.
Best and Cheapest Route to Cold Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSA GER/ES J^ARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS
LEAVE SYDNEY AS UNDER :
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with the other Mail Companies, issued at greatly
reduced rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 5 p.m., THURSDAY.
December 24.
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
January 2.
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
(Taking- passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, December 26.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
December 29.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY',
January 2.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE- BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
♦
SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.=-iS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11 400 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from
SYDNEY - '24th December,
MELBOURNE - 30th December,
ADELAIDE - 7th January, ’O3
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Eleotric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and I £49 10s . £l3 i 3s . £l5 x sa . £1717 5 .
LIVERPOOL., i .
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed bv T.S.S. DORSET, and four-weekly there-
after bv other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For
further information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


“10-2-4” on the subject of a Maligned
Point: —
The time has arrived, in my opinion, for the journals
which scarify our Sydney nobility to drop localising 1 the said
nobles at Potts Point, using the name “ Mrs. Potts
Poynt” as a synonym’for ml that is haughty and pluto-
cratic in the female line, and so forth. I live at Potts
Point myself, and I am neither noble nor a plutocrat.
Nor, so far as I can judge, is any one of my neighbors.
Time was when things were otherwise. But it is long
years agone. Fashion and wealth have moved eastwards.
As a result of careful scrutiny I have come to the con-
clusion that Potts Point is mainly inhabited in the
present year of grace by two classes of the community—
(l) lodging-house keepers, (2) lodgers. The lodgers are
mostly clerks. They subdivide naturally into (a) Jews,
(b) Christians—there being no Mohammedan clerks.
They are passionate supporters of Dan Levy, M.L.A., to a
man. They believe that Socialism will cause something
to burst in the near ffcture ; also that Fisher, M.H.R., is
an Anarchist, or something. They fear that he and his
myrmidons have designs on their several and individual
30s. a week. Fisher, Deakin, Watson, Lyne and the other
Anarchists are lashed by them very severely at times in
the matutinal ’bus and trams that ply between the
Point and the marts of commerce. But there is
no social significance in this. The lashers merely
repeat to one another what they read in the morning
paper. I do not know any of them, but they look
to me simple and unassuming fellows. If they are Jews,
and youngish, they bear a strong family resemblance to
the famous Mr. Alexander —he who wears the p.oud
style of “ most beautiful man in Sydney.” Their hair is
shiny and black ; their clothes are also shiny, and very,
very neat; their boots are shiny, their faces are shiny,
everything about them is shiny. They glimmer most
gorgeously in the sunlight. If they are Jews and old
they look as Mr. Alexander will look when cruel, un-
®sthetic old Time has imposed a defacing flapper on his,
at present, lovely brow. If they are Christians they look
—young and old—like ordinary or hedge clerks. No ; there
is no suggestion of the ancient regime about these
modern Potts Pointers. In the still calm of the evening
they may be seen on the balconies of their landladies,
resting after the -day’s toil. They do not hurl them-
selves into evening clothes and embark on a wild round
of hilarious frivolity. They do not play Bridge for un-
heard-of or other stakes. Not at all. They just sit there
in slippered ease, smoking grim-looking cigars, till a
southerly springs up ; then they go inside, and go shortly
afterwards to bed. The females of the locality are the
wives, mothers, sisters, etc., of the men (or gents, as it
is the local convention to term them), and they look it.
As a resident of this maligned portion of Sydney, I am in
hopes that, in Heaven’s good time, if not earlier, the
reproach under which it now labors of harboring none
but offensively intolerant people, with blue blood and
money, may be removed from it. If these folk exist any-
where, the social sleuth must seek them miles further along
the YVatson’s Bay tram-line. “ Potts Point ”as a pseu-
donym for the indigenous Colonna or de Vere is as un-
truthful as an Anti-Sosh oonferencer.
65,000 men and women
with brains have each pur-
chased a copy of this book,
and as a result of reading it,
thousands of them started
jon the road to WEALTH,
j This 104 Page Book)
ONE SHILLING
May Lead YOU To
it. Financial.
INDEPENDENCE
PLAINLY WRITTEN, TELLS YOU
How to accumulate money.
How to make your spare money earn more than
savirtgs bank interest.
How to distinguish good from bad investments.
How to retrieve losses and secure the best profits.
How to realize cherished plans.
How to analyze and deyelop the dormant or lack-
ing quality essential to success.
How to.improve yourfinancialandgeneralwelfare
How to make money safely and judiciously.
GUARANTEE
The Publishers’ guarantee. In the event of any dissatis-
faction, to refund immediately upon return of the book
pot only its price, but postage both ways in addition.
Orders at one shilling,per copy, stamps or P. 0.,
will be filled in rotation 'as received until the edition
is exhausted. At no time has any .jublication met
with, such popular approval, the book being as ne-
cessary as daily bread, to every intelligent n.a 1 and
woman ambitious to improve their circumstances.
SEND FOR IT TODAY
THE FIDUCIARY CO. J. 360 Tacoma Building
publishers CHICAGO, U.S. A.
n
rpHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
1 Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten; lOd.
Australian Hutual Provident Society.
Next Annual Distribution of the Profits as at 31st December, 1908.
Everv participating Policy in the Ordinary Department, issued previous to the close of the current jear, w.
'‘"A— for the one year 1907 was £708,245, representing more than a third of
the total premiums received during the year. czan czrt7
sssmjsss% a-* ss?j2« Mua « ■—* the
Km ° unt **•
b “?otS“TZ a SKSTlffilfl particulars write to the Head o«ce, « Pitt
" = CAMERON^
General Manager and Actuary. oeoretarj.
CHristmas and New Year Post Cards
50 Beautiful Post Cards, 1/3 Post Free. Order at once.
Christmas Greetings, New Year Greetings
Pretty & Novel Designs. Choice Cards, 1/3 Post Free. Send To-Day.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO.
Post and Christmas Card Publishers,
192-194 Castlereagh Street (near Park Street), Sydney.
«A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
A PampSifet on INFANT FEEDING # MANAGEMENT (4B pages) free.
THE Q
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk ns obtained
in towns
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the "Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON, * Bridge Sts., Sydney
mn
9
I
mom
It acts like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
m
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Caneer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &c.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all ov>r the world , in bottles , Is. 1 id. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each.
WARN ING —Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN S CHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the 1 ELEPHANT ” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Eocke, Tompsitt & Co.,Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Fkkehan’s Chlouodyne, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
nm
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy for*
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma Sc Consumption
Those who have taken this .medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
ncure is certain. .
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARIME,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
n
mn
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
&he LEADING
HOUSE FOR.
m
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS'.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
■» it -* iiu ■■ ■' i*; n — 1 *
No, 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
No. 2 B.W.C.
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14s
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
Sizes—
4in., 7/6 ea. ; sin., 9/6 each
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
CANT
B
BEAT
n
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 60 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book dv De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life,-Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket-Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Cd. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Lif-e,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, lis. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. Tiif, Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. \ Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
mn
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages!
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to, innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
nage, which makes it a superior guide to the action Of men and ;
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its :
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
.?T fc w‘ C 0 edrtlon of t hi s great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Sonqs ANp Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama'-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. ■ Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datf., Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.y, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mag-
i'adden’s Physical Training, is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s (Id. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wannan’s-Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STO..; CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT,
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNT],
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
.Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
prs Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing' Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is past. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
DeughtfulPipes
Thais what
weans
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable from ah Tobacconists
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
J[ Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to nglVs. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
' fi v~ vn rq.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Hway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Ha-ving taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
ar id P J at^ i £ ab ] e wa y- WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
, , , Wew j m se »d one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and prpu'.ar
aslred for and records and dl ® t F lbut F l g our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
rSabli machhie on K? e ir m n aChl S e after you receive il - Weclaim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee bv the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all" who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines w?Ubl awarded
kee rSi,lTothe PP Cat ' ol1 ' We present the Phonograph entirely aid absolutel?
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp, c.p.p., Sydney, JJ.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely pnnrfcedl
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’sbest drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
* • •>*
IMikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & AIL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established,sufe, reliable and
hnndy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take
For sale by seedsmen,florists, conntrv chem.
‘ists, storekeepers, nnd by E. 1), MORKISON,
Fropiietor, 89 Hunter-street, mdnet.
Sample battles and full particulars, by poet.
Is. 4d (stamps; to make It gallons spray.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nerronn Coneha,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression Immedlstcly
reliercd by GKIMAULT A Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chrmitt,.
=£ Bri ti sb-Jf usrralasi an
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit tiie Heading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Buitish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the ..paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


m
J.V
!)!>>
m
W^jo£^k
> DON’T DIET.
It takes all kinds of food to
satisfy the demands of the
body. Eat all the wholesome
food you want and ensure its
perfect digestion and assimi-
lation by taking Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules after each
meal. By doing this you will
soon forget your stomach and
find you can go the whole
meal three times a day and
enjoy it as you did when a
healthy boy or girl.
Indigestion, heartburn or
other stomach troubles have
no terror for those who use
Df She Id on’s
Digestive
l Tabules
Digest ufkatjsou*
The Carrington Hotel,
Ratoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W•
Bs. to lOs. per Day.
£2 ss. to £2 16s. per Weeß.
Ideal Climate. Matchless Scenery.
A. L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereafrh Streets.
Bar- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
STOCK.
Telephone 2138.
nm
n
for:
FREESAMPLE^
Congo is “Never-Leak” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any, of the following:
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.ft., and London.
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millars Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
mn
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
pO-f
■ ■ICC X* I •
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., BriSban^
p. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
m
Works: Birmingham, England
These series ol
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
(over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Heart Failure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE’S a somethin’ in the distance goin’
tramp ! tramp ! tramp 1
Far, far away, yet very clear and loud,
And the damnable persistence of its tramp!
,! tramp! tramp !
Has a flavor of the coffin and the shroud.
A sick bed such as this on which I wait, wait,
wait,
All thro’ the day and the twilight and the dark,
What is it but a prison, where a fellow’s bound to
listen
To the marchin’ time he cannot choose but mark?
It sounds like folks with banners, and a drum,
drum, drum,
Them that talk religion are biddin’ me rejoice ;
They tell me ’twould be manners to be singin’ out
hosanners,
But I haven’t got the spirit or the voice.
They say I’d better turn me unto Gawd, Gawd,
Gawd,
But I’m so mortal tired, and He’s so far away.
I can’t seem to concern me with the things they
try to learn me,
And the feet are marchin’ nearer every day.
They get too jolly nigh me with their beat! beat!
beat!
Near and ever nearer at the turnin’ of the night,
Till the silence gets to try me and there’s ne’er
a body by me,
And I lie there like a baby in a fright.
If they’d only take a spell now from their drum,
drum, drum !
Give a fellow time to breathe, and let his trouble
slip,
By gob,. I’d soon be well now, but they won’t;
and why to Hell now
Should they want to make a fellow lose his grip ?
I don’t half like to bend up, for I’ve always kept
my end up,
Never lay and squealed like this, but took my
bit o’ fun,
And if only I were stronger, well, I’d stick it a bit
longer,
But I’m fear’d I got to own as how I’m done.
I’ve used up all my fuel, and the pressure’s failin’
lower,
The life of me’s a-drainin’ off by drops;
The ma,rchin’s somethin’ cruel, but it’s slower,
slower, slower,
There it goes—goes —goes, —now —it—stops.
'QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
Coaching.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
who have been used to
I macadamised highways can’t readily ac-
commodate themselves to the altered con-
ditions pertaining to the back country, where
theje are only little patches of made roads, mostly-
beside the wayside pubs (where the publicans
don’t want them), no bridges or culverts across
the creeks, and the distance from house to house
ranges from 20 to 50 miles. The bush track winds
like a serpent across the hills and through the
forests of mulga and gidgee, whilst over the soft
sandbeds the tracks are as manifold as the beds
and billabongs of an inland river, showing the
many deviations made by drivers in their desire
to save their horses. The latter, fed mostly on
scrub and saltbush, are not always in the pink of
condition, and the long stages, ranging up to 36
miles, together with the immense loads that are
piled on the vehicles, don’t assist the animals in
keeping their ribs hidden. A team is often made
up of anything handy —little and big, light and
heavy, and it may represent several owners.
Settlers give the coach-driver their half-broken
colts to quieten ; and when a man has a horse
that kicks, bolts, jibs, or displays other peculiari-
ties that the owner objects to, the remedy is a few
trips in the body of the coach team. These casual
horses may also be one-eyed, near-sighted or pur-
blind, but the driver is glad to have their help.
I often heard admiring comments from visitors
on the horses that came spanking into Broken
Hill with heavy loads from north and west.
These were the show horses. They had good
roads to travel on, and had to cut out their stage
in record time to make up for the deficiencies of
relays further out. Mail-time is reckoned by
minutes in Broken Hill ; but when you inquire at
the little places towards the border as to what
time last week’s Bulletin will arrive, the answer
is: “ Some time this afternoon, or to-night, or
to-morrow.” A few points of rain on the track,
though it would not stop a Chinaman from water-
ing his cabbages, may delay the mail 48 hours.
Tibooburra is advised by wire what time the
coach leaves Milparinka, 24 miles distant; yet
the people cannot tell within two or three hours,
in average weather, when it will arrive. “ Heavy
load ” means late arrival, “ light load ” early.
Sitting behind knocked-up horses, on a hot
summer’s day, with dust and flies for an accom-
paniment to the creaking of wheels and the rock-
ing of a crawling coach, is an experience that the
Far-back traveller can look forward to without fear
of disappointment. Sometimes, to avoid being
stuck up, he has to walk over the bad places, and
even dig away the sand and mud with a shovel,
and spoke the wheels. One western line traversed
many heavy sandbeds. On coming to one of
these, the driver would call out, “ Now, then, out
you get! ” and women and all would have to step
out and tramp until the horses were able to trot
again. But the westerners are used to that sort
of thing, and willingly walk and graft a lot of the
way over which they’ve paid anything from 6d.
to 9d. a mile for the luxury of riding.
The commercial traveller is an objectionable
passenger to a coach-driver at such times. His
tin trunks are numerous, and their weight would
knock up a mule team. He is generally a heavy
person, too, and he doesn’t like stepping down
into a quagmire. When it is necessary to open a
gate, or to hook a trace-chain that has come
undone, he takes a tighter grip of his cigar and
holds out his hand for the reins. But the com-
mercial is a good fellow. He has always a fund
of anecdote, and is usually provided with some-
thing in a bottle to refresh the driver after a try-
ing experience. He pays liberally for his ride,
and he rides all the way.
On the 200-mile journey between Tibooburra
and Broken Hill, I and others, after sitting
cramped up, numbed shivering for hours on ]
a winter’s night, have got out and walked hve or
six miles to tlie mail change for a cup of tea, an
have then enjoyed an hour or more s sleep before
the coach turned up. By this I do not Wis
infer that the general run of Out-back coaches a
slow affairs; but over portions of the rougn
tracks it isn’t possible for them to travel at tul
walk, much less at full .trot. Though the casual
passenger grumbles at having to get along >y
his own volition, the wea,ry whip, tied to nis
worn-out team, envies him his freedom, and
wishes that he could walk away likewise, ine
exigencies of his calling require him to be on the
box for 50 hours at a stretch, with only a day or
two and at one end only a night’s rest between
trips. Winter and summer, sunshine and rain,
he works all day and all night, and all next day
and right on through the night again, without a
spell, stopping only at the changes for fresh horses
and refreshments, and refreshments on this route
vary from eight to 18 hours apart.
Where there is a long interval between houses,
the “ change” may be simply a sapling yard and
a bough shed. The groom is mostly a single man,
living in a tent. His only work is to look after a
few horses, which run in the bush, groom them,
and help the driver with the changing on mail
days. The coach may pass only once or twice a
week, up and down, and between whiles he has a
pretty lonely time of it, seeing nobody but an odd
swagman. Where a selector’s hut is handy to the
road the selector acts as groom, and his wife earns
an honest penny by providing refreshments for
driver and passengers.
Besides these stopping places there are dozens
of bush post-offices along the road. These are
simply candle boxes, lolly tins, or kerosene tins,
nailed to trees and gate posts. Hollow trees j
are also used, a small piece being cut out the
trunk, and a tin awning nailed above it. Such
receptacles are usually convenient enough for the
driver to draw up alongside, and drop the mail in,
and take out anything that has been left for him.
They occur in places where no sign of life is
visible, in the heart of the scrub, on the edge of a
plain, and on thickly-timbered hills. At other
places a horseman, or a girl, or a black boy will
be waiting, sometimes with parcels which may be
anything from a cabbage to a box of eggs. At
night time the tired passenger, after sitting and
rocking through hours of monotony, occasionally
brightens up at the sight of a light ahead, and
inquires the name of the place. The driver tells
him the name of the squattage, or whatever may
be adjacent. When they pull up, the passenger
is disappointed to find only a man standing by the
roadside with a lantern, having ridden or walked
down to ascertain the whereabouts of a certain
bullock team, and how it was getting on, while
the place the driver had named is two miles or
more off the road. Swagmen’s fires, too, blaze out
here and there, and sometimes the men have a
message for the coachman, a letter to be posted,
or they want to know something about the track,
where water is to be found, the distance of places,
when shearing starts at Boulka Lake, and if
Bancannia has cut out yet. Maybe they only
want a pipe of tobacco, which, in the swagman’s
opinion, is sufficient cause to hold up the royal
mail.
There are receiving offices here and there—at a
wayside store, hotel, or mining camp. On mail
days people gather from all directions at these
places, the arrival of the coach being the most
important event of their lives. The orders and
messages a driver receives from them are many
and various. One man wants a pound of tobacco
from the store ; another wants a pair of boots or a
pair of pants ; a third hands him a bill with the
amount, and asks him to be good enough to get a
receipt; and a fourth wants his dog registered.
Mrs. Brown passes up a pair of ducks, and would
be obliged if he would give them to Mrs. Smith,
with her compliments, as he passes. Mrs. Public-
house wants him, like a good fellow, to get her a
cook or a housemaid in town. Another lady has
been making jam, and desires several jars of it
distributed among her friends along the track.
Also McPherson wishes him to ask Anderson for
the loan of his bay colt, and to bring it up along-
side his team when he is coming back. These are
a few of the innumerable favors which every
coachdriver on the Out-back roads is expected to
do for nothing. If he forgets one of them,
though it might be only a question concerning
the health of Mrs. Jones’ baby, he will be told
with sarcasm that “ he’s got a head and so has a
pin.”
We had anew experience at Packsaddle Bore,
where the road crosses a wide, sandy creek.
There had been rain in the neighborhood, so the
roads were heavy and creeks running. The up-
coach was met here—bogged in midstream. The
driver and a passenger were wading knee-deep in
water, one at the horses’ heads and one spoking,
while a Chinaman, bound for a border squattage,
handled the ribbons and shouted instructions
from the box. “Pullee gley orsee round more
better,” he cried. “Hit urn the black one; my
wor’, lazy blute. Gee up, ’orsee ! Gortam,
whaffor?” We halted on the bank, and our
leaders were transferred to the bogged team. Our
amiable whip also stepped bare-legged into the
water, and'with their combined efforts the royal
mail was rescued from the bog.
Now came our turn. Paddy, the driver, rushed
them in so as to take the stiff part at a run.
Alas ! the pole-hook pulled out, and the leaders
dashed away with the reins, leaving us stranded
in the middle of the creek. Luckily the damage
was easily repaired, and there being plenty of
horses we got out of our difficulties after about an
hour’s delay.
The coach-driver bears a great deal more re-
sponsibility than he is given credit for. Think of
the many steep and nasty gullies crossed in the
dead of night; the deep gutters, begotten of old-
time wheel-tracks, that run parallel with the road
on the down grades, where the least swerve might
mean a capsize; the twistings through scrub,
where the track swings sharply round a stump or
tree, or round the foot of a rugged ridge with the
steep bank of a creek in juxtaposition, and you
get some idea of what you owe to his steady
hand, his keen eye, and his memory of the road,
as he bowls you on through the long night. Half
your time you can see nothing but a black bank
before you, for through the sand beds, over the
stony plains and the powdery, grassless flats, the
road is invisible. Yet the horses swing on with |
an unfaltering stride that instils within you a ,
sense of security. People whose avocations take
them over many roads know how to appreciate a
good whip ; they know what depends on the hand
that holds the reins.
On very dark nights, when the skies are
clouded, it occasionally happens that the road is
missed. On a barren plain below Wonnarninta,
where the track was hard to discern when starlit,
we got astray one night, and were two hours
searching with coach lamps and matches for the
track. Then there is always the dreaded north-
west dust-storm to be reckoned with. Driving
through one of these is worse than any night, for
at times nothing can be seen, and the dust-blinded
horses strive continually to turn from the blast.
(Continued on next page.)


XMAS FEASTING
Health Hints for the Festive Season,
CHRISTMAS is the Season of eating, drinking and making merry.
Nothing more easily causes liver, stomach and digestive disorder than
an excess of rich foods. It brings
about a surcharge of bile, causing
biliousness, headache, vomiting,
dizziness, bad breath,
coated tongue, “wind,”
and paleness. BILE
BEANS are especially
compounded to remedy
ailments of this kind.
They act directly on the
liver, enabling it to secrete
sufficient bile to flush
the bowels, cleanse the
stomach, and clear off all
waste and offensive
matter from the system.
Attention to your health
at this season is im=
portant, and a dose of
r
4L \
A}\
so
h
A
BILE BEANS, taken before retiring,
will enable you to enjoy the Season’s
festivities.
“That Nasty Sickly Feeling.”
“ I suffered with bilious headaches; ” says Mrs.
E. Dacey, of Hall Street, Mount Morgan, Queens-
land, “ together with nasty sickly feelings. I
tried many so-called remedies in the hope of
gaining relief, but only to meet with disappoint-
ment. A friend urged me to give Bile Beans a
trial. I followed her advice, and Bile Beans
restored me to health. I now enjoy my food,
and housework is a pleasure.”
What Bile Beans Cure
BILE BEANS are the STANDARD
REMEDY for Biliousness; Head-
ache, Indigestion, Constipation,
Debility, Liver Troubles,
Dizziness, Nausea, Jaundice, Flatu-
lency, Vomiting, Bad Blood, Of-
fensive Breath, Lassitude, Summer
Fag, Loss of Appetite, Disturbed
Sleep, and all common family ail-
ments. By promoting the internal
organs to perfect worhing order,
Bile Beans fortify the system
against the enervating effects of the
Summer Season. Price 1/I'id. and 2/9
per box, of all Chemists and Stores.
FOR BILIOUSNESS
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Once the Hungerford-Bourke coach w'as blown
over and dragged across the driver, who, however,
escaped without serious injury. During unusu-
ally heavy storms the team is turned tail to the
wind, and a halt is made until the worst has
blown over. Again, trees are blown across the
road, and a way has to be picked slowly round
through the timber.
When it is. mentioned that, besides drapery,
spirits and tobacco, such items as butter, fruit,
bacon, hams, meat, vegetables, Wool-sheets, tents,
tin dishes and boots, are sent through the parcels
post, you can imagine what the non-postal matter
is like. Every available inch of space is occupied,
bags of chaff, buggy wheels, perambulators, and
other bulky light stuff being piled on top to a
height of several feet. Then there are the
passengers, generally a mixed lot. Coming down,
you might have a Chinaman beside you, and a
couple of manacled prisoners, with a policeman on
either side, on the opposite seat. And there is no
room to stretch your legs or lean back; you are
compelled to sit huddled in one position mile
after mile, hour after hour. For this reason most
people prefer the box seat. The inside is cooler on
a hot day, warmer on a cold night, and drier in
wet weather ; but you are cramped, and there is
bound to be some old party alongside who can’t
keep awake, and w'ho persists in making a pillow
of his companion and shoring into his ear, or who
bumps him heavily with every roll of the coach.
It is a genuine pleasure to see the lights of a
town suddenly blaze out from the crest of a distant
hill. In the early morning the place looks asleep,
and during the day it has the dull sameness of
many other towns ; but in the early night, when
lights stream from everywhere, a little town looks
big.
The coach often travels through miles of burning
bush, enveloped in smoke and cinders, and run-
ning a hot race with long lines of flames that are
closing in on the road. On the Glen Wills line
(Vic.), in Feb., 1905, the mail coach and contents
were destroyed, and three horses and a swagman
—who had been picked up two miles back—were
burnt to death. The coach had been traversing a
cutting on the side of a hill, on which a fire was
burning, when the wind sprang up suddenly and
the flames leaped over the road in a broad sheet
and completely enveloped it. The driver, who
was knocked overboard and severely injured,
escaped by crawling- into Lightning Creek.
And floods—the Backblocks flood is an uncertain
and treacherous element. One visitation may be
the cause of forming a hard, level crossing ; whilst
with the next a washaway may occur, and the
unsuspecting driver goes into it, his horses are
drowned, his coach wrecked, and mails and bag-
gage are distributed over miles of country. I saw
one such disaster on the Mount Browne route a
few years ago. Four horses, I think, were
drowned, and the driver only escaped after a very
severe struggle.
Other and worse accidents happen at times, no
matter how careful and steady a driver may be,
as witness the smash on the Tarcoola (S.A.) track
in October, 1902. The horses bolted near Wilgena
station, and overturned the coach. The driver
sustained a fractured collarbone, fractured ribs
and severe contusions, and the one passenger, a
lady, had both legs broken. Both lay helpless by
the roadside until accidentally discovered by a
passing stockman. Probably the worst disaster
in the annals of Backblocks coaching was that
which overtook the Powell’s Greek and Anthony’s
Lagoon (N.T.) mail, when the driver, passengers
and horses perished on a dry stage for want of
water.
On the roads trending west from Bourkeand north
from Broken Hill it often happens in midsummer
that horses drop dead in harness from the excessive
heat, and the driver, if unable to proceed with his
weakened team, rides off to the nearest squattage
or to the next mail change for fresh horses, while
the passengers guard the coach and mails, and
beguile the time the best way they can. While
coming into Tibooburra one night a horse dropped
from exhaustion, and the coach was pulled on to
it before the team could be stopped. The coo-ees
of the driver attracted a dozen of us to the scene,
and after lifting the coach off the prostrate animal,
and disentangling the others from the broken pole,
we took hold fore and aft, and rolled her on to the
post-office. This, however, might be considered a
good finish, when compared with the experience
of a North Queensland mailman, who, when his
horses caved in 40 miles from Winton, carried the
mailbags the rest of the way on his back, the
journey occupying him two days.
These are some of the experiences of coaching
in the tame times of the present. They were
more exhilarating in the pioneering days of Gobb
and Cos., when the intrepid whips had to run the
gauntlet of armed bushrangers, and often submit
to being lined up with their passengers by the
roadside while the coach was being ransacked.
One of the famous whips of those days was
Edward Devine, commonly known as Cabbage-
tree Ned. From 1853 (when he was only -17) to
1862, Ned drove a six-in-hand between Geelong
and Ballarat. During the first two years his
wage was £l6-a week, and his tips from lucky
diggers, for whom he conveyed gold to the banks,
averaged even more than that. The roads at the
time were frequented by Captain Melville, Black
Douglass, and other bushrangers. Ned had many
narrow escapes, and on one occasion his coach
was stuck up, and his passengers robbed of £BOO,
by the notorious Ned Jordan, afterwards hanged
for the murder of Squatter Rutherford. Devine
got his sobriquet from the fact that he usually
sported a wide-brimmed cabbage-tree hat, made
iu Parramatta for the London International Ex-
hibition held in 1851, and subsequently presented
to him. It was a conspicuous part of his dress for
5.0 years.
EDARD S. SORENSON.
Before the Mast.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF you ever go to sea, travel in a deck-
cabin and make a friend of the stewardess.
Don’t go before the mast; that’s hurtful.
I know, because I’ve been there. Ever so many
years ago I went to sea in the American ship
Conqueror, Sydney to Hongkong, in ballast.
There was no comfort in it. I had to get up at
such preposterously early hours in the morning
that I blush to think of them even now. Till I
became used to it, sleep was almost impossible,
because of the. constant hubbub and curiosity of
the—er—poultry in the forecastle. When we got
outside the Heads, there was a swell of large .size
and sickening intensity, and the second officer
sent me up to the mizzen royal. To this day, I
don’t know what I was sent for; but I went.
The ship herself was a huge and ancient mistake.
We had to scrub' the floors of the heaving
beast ourselves, because the captain was a
hard and misogynic man, and we carried no house-
maids. I found it utterly impossible to get a cup of
tea abed o’ mornings, and I soon felt-tired. Tired !
I was tired of the food, I was tired of the second
mate’s continuous eloquence, I was tired of being
turned out of the poultry-yard in my thin night-
clothes to trifle with the mizzen-to’-gallan’ sail in
the teeth of a hurricane of ice. When we reached
Hongkong, crawling in amid the thick of a dull
wash of rain, I had had enough. I said I should go
ashore, even if I had to work. I did. I went to
the American consulate, where I was paid off by
a supercilious Japanese half-breed. I learned to
hate the Japanese early, and I rejoice to know
that I was not mistaken in my first impression.
But I got away from the Conqueror. Since which
time, as the advertisements say, I have taken no
other exercise on shipboard.
Of course, there were compensations. There
were, for instance, the deck concerts on velvet
equatorial nights, when the stars shone like
remote suspended pearls, and the whiffs of sul-
phurous odors that stole gently from aft and
trailed away to poison the gulls, told us that Mr,
Powis, our beloved second officer, was murmuring
in his sleep. One of our gallant crew had a voice
that I shall never forget—sort of silvery-tenor cut
low, with passementerie of bronchial wheezes and
an effective insertion of falsetto quags. There
was one song of his that always shook the stars tq
tears. The refrain comes stealing to me now
across the litter of old memories :
Ten tha’sand a year is my fortin,
And er l.vdy your daughter shall be ;
She shall ride in ’er kerridge an’ ’or-ses,
On ther green mossy benks er the Lee !
We would join strenuously in that splendid
chorus, till the Pleiades blinked with envy, and
the delighted second officer awoke and applauded
in a lava-torrent of unprintable objurgations.
Then there was another vocalist of our number,
w'ho let slip the fact, one night when off his guard,
that he had modestly refused a New York engage-
ment and the virgin affections of a great operatic
artiste. How well the scene comes back to mel
The manly figure of the young mariner, his
bronzed face thrown back, a shifting lump in his
left cheek, a bit of spunyarn saving the situation
in the figurehead of his honest but dilapidated
moles; the rugged, earnest, dirty, old familiar
faces of my shipmates; and all about us the
eternal, worried night ! And with all this, the
voice of the singer, strung to a tense and infinite
emotion—
Rahnd, rahnd, rahnd,
Rahnd goes ther wheel !
Tick-tack, tick-tock,
Loife is but er reel !
In joy or in sorrer,
In grief or in pine,
* Rahnd, rahnd, rahnd
Goes ther w’eel uv Toime !
Then there were the yarns, too ; the wonderful
crusted chestnuts and the newer inventions.
Stories of the “hungry Isaac” Webb; of the verit-
able sea-serpent that bit the Albyn’s bosun off her
cathead a day out from Callao ; of the lady, wife
of the Old Man of a certain barque, who loved
Paddy , (our champion liar), and how she walked
on the beach till he went ashore at Rio, and there
sweetly wooed him to her lord’s dishonor in such
language as probably accounted for Paddy’s pre-
mature baldness and general-depravity. “’Struth!
but she wus a wanner,” said Paddy. We be-
lieved it.
Ah me, it’s easy to jest; but when I think
of the Conqueror the torpid blood gets hot
within me, and I hate our cant and hypocrisy
more than Ido most times. The Conqueror was
a good ship, as Yankee windjammers go, and the
food aboard her w'as superior to the best average
of the British mercantile marine. But the public
conscience .that can condone the defects of a
commerce that degrades men to that life of dogs
is a conscience callous and vile. Talk of the
romance of the sea ! The romance of the sailor-
man is generally spelled out in linked abomina-
tions of cruelty and contumely. We send our
missionaries of sorts to convert the Hindu and the
Chinese ; but we have only a stray thought at odd
moments for. the whites condemned to the bitterest
heathendom on our deep-sea sailers. Some day,
perhaps, something may be done, and the profes-
sion that demands the valor and the skill of a.
million lonely men on every sea may be so safe-
guarded with humane conditions as to make the
life afloat the honorable and stimulating thing
that it is in the theory of our tinpot nautical
songs. But, in the meantime, things are vilely
bad.
But it will be understood wdiy I rarely or never
attempt to write nautical verse. I’ve been there.
And there are heaps of scribes that never w'ent to
sea.
FRANK MORTON.
Wreckage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Auckland, —Captain Gregory, o{ the steamer Wanaka,
which towed the missing ship Loch Lomond from Mel-
bourne to Newcastle, inspected some of the wreckage
found near Cape Maria. He says that the wreckage for-
warded to Auckland belonged to the Locli Lomond.—
News item.
THE wreckage comes with its deathly tale
From the lists of the Outer Sea,
The scornful gage of the knightly gale
’Neath the eyes of humanity.
Never again will she answer hail
Or come back to the sunlit quay !
The wreckage lifts on the racing wave
And drifts to the farthest shore,
A grisly token from out the grave,
It signs to the world : “No more !
She rests right well, the poor cargo slave,
On the pitying ocean’s floor ! ”
The wreckage, sodden and smashed and scarred,
Keepeth sullenly on its way
To where the lonely cape mounts guard
Over waters haunted and grey—
The felon waves that look fierce and hard
’Neath the prison-cold light of day.
The wreckage dips and the wreckage swings
’Midst the foam of the breakers’ wrath,
Whilst, soul-like, a screaming seagull wings
Ever restlessly back and forth,
And the mad South wind in madness flings ,
Giant seas at the hated North.
The upturned boat and the broken spar
waste of the insolent sea—
They travel slow but they travel far,
Whilst the days and the long hours flee,
Till the combers thunder on the bar
With the roar of Eternity.
Shattered and scarred on the wind-swept sands,
Battered and crushed on the reef,
So ends the work of their drowned hands
At the hands of the ocean thief.
Oh ! wise is the man who' tills his lands,
For the Sea hath naught but grief.
N.S.W.
E.O’F.


THE OLDEST .STRONGEST© BEJ’T
M
,/< y
m
m
tp
55
m as the one gre
ine. You may travel in any
ie world—in Spain, China, ln<
America, Egypt,
Africa, or wherever you
re you will find this f<
ily medicine rear 1 -
AYER'S Sarsaparilla
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla—as now made, it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. «T. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., XJ. S. A.
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
mi
Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free.
B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,'
England.
DR. j. COLLIS BROWNE’S
GHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Cheeks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP. AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE ,
Convincing 1 Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND— 2/9, & 4/6
1
Superior to ’
INJECTIONS
[CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
' Cure£ the same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name 1W
nm
v. J. Daley’s “At Dawn atid Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; Ixnuul in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s Gd. from all booksellers. Post
free from, Ri'u.Km office, ss.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
_ all flies and affords comfoyt to eyerv homi-
ng room, sleeping-room, and all'places where Hies
are troublesome.
Clean, ueat and
ornamental, will
not toil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
i rugtfists,
Croce; a and
Hardware
Dealers,
*v?
m
sSPg
r*.
7,#S»
BNO
is?’
A\
among whom are:
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. : F. H. Paulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson it Co., 268 Pitt St.;
Australian Drug Co., O'Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O'Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim.Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., O.S.A
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 Oeorge Street. Sydney
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Australian Blight, falling Eyelashen.Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
In use since 1596.
M
CURES
n
of drinking impure water and
incurring the risk of
TYPHOID.
mn
m
Australian
FILTER
has been proved by the severest bacteriological
tests to effect a complete barrier to the direct
passage of water-borne diseases.
Fountain Filters,
from 20/- each.
Pressure Filters,
from 20/= each.
Used by leading S.S. Cos., Public and Private Institutions
Write for Catalogues to-
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PROMISE and FULFILMENT
There is an. old axiom to the effect that what everybody says
must be true. Certainly it is generally safe to follow the
crowd. Its instinct is usually right, and in the matter of
common ailments you may profitably pay heed to the opinion
of the majority—which in times of sickness puts its faith in the
efficacy of BEECHAM’S PILLS. Nor has that trust been
misplaced. An annual sale of 6,000,000 boxes proves the
universality of the value of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
Many preparations, miscalled remedies, claim impossibilities.
They could not reasonably make good much that is claimed for
them. No exaggerated statements are put forward respecting
BEECHAM’S PILLS. The steady demand for them—year
after year—proves that those who have need of them have
found that they wrought those cures that they are announced
to effect. No other medicine is so generally and uniformly
successful in giving strength to the stomach—correcting the
digestive system and regulating the liver, kidneys and bowels—
and the use of BEECHAM’S PILLS will prove to your
perfect satisfaction that they
MAKE GOOD Every CLAIM
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, England.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price 10/ 2 d. (36 Pills),
1/iy 2 (56 Pills), and 2/9 (168 Pills).
r &
7
THE BEST WINDMILL
IS WHAT YOU REQUIRE.
IT SHOULD—
Be strong I —to resist, the gale and abolish the
cost of upkeep.
Have a large sail area —to catch the light breeze.
Have a bearing on each side of the Windwheel—
to make it easy running and wear resisting.
Have a simple balance gear— to take the weight
of the pump rod.
Be large— to pump big quantities from any depth.
Be moderate in first cost— to suit your pocket.
The “Steel UJings” Windmill
FILLS YOUR REQUIREMENTS EXACTLY.
Made by the
Steel Wings Windmill Go., Ltd.,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
Write to Department C stating facts, and we
will give you figures.
‘ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21 s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
men
no <Zr
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted ersonally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd and
. ; | from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you amj’lv to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pacn«
Crown Bvo, over 609 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide f o r all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different, to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with loner
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Xo similar book has ever been vublisheil “*
FREE.
To all persons suffering: from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Com* of
this great work Free on enclosing live stamps (the actual cost of the postage)
ivertisement out out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on
on receipt of this adversisenient. Address s —
-1 Men’s special Ailments"
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing
“ Elm ley House,"
151 Elizabeth-st
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


fl Yachting Oilskin.
nm
The sailing' season is now in full
swing, and you will need a good
Oilskin to protect you from the
spray and spume. We offer you a
first-class one, light in weight and
throughly reliable, for 17/6.
By sending your height and chest
measurement over clothes we can
ensure the correct size.
Freight will be paid by us. We
stock, top, all needs for the trout
fisherman—Waders, Stockings,
Brogues, Caps, Jackets, Bag's, etc.
Full details are given in bur New
Summer Catalogue, which we will forward on request.
Perdriau Rubber Go., Ltd.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street. Sydney.
CLEAR YOUR LAND OF RABBITS
with the TYREE RABBIT DESTROYER.
CLEAR YOUR TREES OF PESTS
with the TYREE SPRAYER.
PROTECT YOUR FRUIT with the
AUTOMATIC BIRD SCARES.
LIGHT YOUR HOUSE with the
TYREE ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR.
SEND FOR COPIES OF TESTIMONIALS TO
TYREE LIMITED,
3/4 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
SAVE: 20 H.P. IN EVERY 100 H.P.
HYATT FLEXIBLE ROLLER BEARINGS.
Agents—W. &J. LEM PR SERE, Malbourna.
Water!
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by usiti
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
Vc°A
Write for
“B
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider,
n
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
WOLF
or
At the Showrooms—
■■ Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK ’’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J.&J, Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES —IVV., VI.
Packet ftf Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
Mat-Virtue
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY.
Head Office Address
IVIOFFAT-VIRTUE
“ CURRAGUNDT,” BULLAR'AH,
27th November, 1908.
MESSRS. MOFFAT-VIRTUE, LTD.,
7 liE.vr Street, Sydney, ,
Dear Sirs,
We finished shearing here on the sth instant, having put
through 80,250 SHEEP with 15 SHEARERS. The Mnffat-Virtue
Machines went splendidly without a hitch from start to'finish. This
is our fifth shearing with your machines. AH the machinery is as
good as new still. Yours truly,
H. T. SIDDINS, Manager.
mn
PROMPT ATTENTION
TO ALL ENQUIRIES
GUARANTEED.
Liiyir
7 Bent Street,
Sydne]
Sub-Agents :
VICTORIA: D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. . ' <
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing (W. A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington,
TASMANIA: Messrs.tpurdoch Bros., 77 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
iS!
fHv-..
'm a;
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E.S*&A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES
and ORDERS along for
SPARE PARTS.
Flour Milling Machinery. Cement Making Plants. Large Gas Engine Units.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION,
By STEELE RUDD.
Cloth binding, posted free, 6s.
<ivV' ' '' FRC
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER X f 214 George Street, Sydney.
COLORED POST CARDS,
By HARRY J. WESTON.
“WEEKLY WORRIES,” set of six, posted free, 6d.
'• ■ - FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 2U George Street, Sydney,
NO SHRINKAGE. NO FIRE RISK.
Interchangeable Metal Bashings to fit all sizes Shafting
THE
PTEEL SPLIT
has following easily
recognisable 'irtues:
mn
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREETSYDNEY .
BELOW THERE J come out of the dark and get ON TOP!
Tube Mills
and
Cyanide Plants.
Send for Bulletins.
AMERICA’S Most Prominent MINING MEN state
THE B. & M. AGITATING TANK and
THE VACUUM TURNOVER FILTER J
Almost
Automatic,
Have revolutionised the Mining World.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and Melbourne.
