

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—“ IDIE’W’ £3-
R. G. WATKINS «SC 00.,
107 Kent Street:, Sydney,
—FOB— .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. -
f
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Korting
2=Cycle Gas Engines
See Wild' Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
ec o ast ufv. ufc i*.
—;<■*!« —
fiadley’s Orient fjotel.
df
df
LEATHER |
FB'ECTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowic! & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
I
Take
back
it
have
must
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S BIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
Demandez Vous !
WEE lACGREEGOR
BUTTER SCOTCH,
S’il Vous Plait.
01/C , fcJ^CLl(rfaj4{ju u cCa
Bwm: ciwhh We Manufacture ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION,
We Contract for INSTALLATION OF POWER, LIGHTING, AND TRACTION PLANTS.
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH WORKS COMPANY LIMITED
(THE. SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.),
279 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
sdf
sd
fsdf
IS
HANSEN’S
JUNKET TABLETS
PREPARE A PURE MILK FOOD.
Junket prepared with these
Tablets is highly
mm
recommended for
Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
HANSEN’S
JUNKET TABLETS
Prepare an Ideal Health Food for Invalids & Children.
MALTHOID is the only roofing
enjoying a Patent Fire Joint
that renders it practically seam-
less. Reinforced MALTHOID
makes perfect flat roofs.
*lll>Cb£tAs<nd
MALTHOID is cooler than
iron or slate. It is absolutely
weather and waterproof. Suit-
able for every class of building.
Send for booklet.
sd
**
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA WATER
There is nothing: aperient in HELIDON SPA, but it is
Maw'* sravonow n,> W rth<>l<>ss.
gollin & CO.
*"*“**»
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1501. j
[Thursday, November 19, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEBEAOH STREET.
SYDNEY.
Some New and Recent Books, including those reviewed on this Page.
The Australian Birthday Book, edited by Bertram
Stevens, morocco gilt edges, 3s 6d, post 3d.
Hall Caine, M.v Story, 6s, postage 6d.
Bliss Carmen, the Making of Personality, 7s 6d, post 9d.
Ouida, Helianthus : a novel, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Maxwell, W. 8., Hill Rise : a novel, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Crawford, F. Marion, The Diva’s Ruby', cloth 3s 6d,
postage 6d.
Lecky, W. E. H., Historical Essays, 12s 6d, postage Bd.
Lounsbury, Standard of Usage in English, Bs, post6d.
Chamber’s, R. W., The Firing Line, cloth, illus., 3s 6d p." 6d
Beatrice Herford, Monologues, illus., 6s, post 6d.
Chitty, Things Seen in China, 2s 6d, post 6d.
Beaulieu, Collectivism, 12s 6d, postage 9d.
Radford, Cardinal Beaufort, 4s, postage 6d.
Franz Hals and Luini, “Masterpieces in Color” Series
Is 9d each, postage 3d extra.
Ryan, Queen Anne and Her Court, 2 vols., 17s 6d, p. Is 6d
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
an ideal remedy p or Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
m
G.HUDSON
■9/1 33Hd ‘SNIA Nl AT NO
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says : “ Proved to be effective bactericidally,
as is creosote.”
Unlike coufrh medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES” do
hot interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6 in Stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 10 york street, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
Caine on Caine
HALL CAINE has been industri-
ously botanising on the grave of
his friend, Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
Indeed, in his autobiography, My Story
(Heinemann), he botanises not oniy upon
Rossetti’s grave, but on a whole cemetery
in which are interred Ruskin, Blackmore
Wilkie Collins, Buchanan, Irving, Tenny
son and Gladstone. With these subjects
he cannot but be interesting, but he stil
manages to be Hall Caine. So the reader
will find here, in addition to some quite
indiscreet literary reminiscences, Hal
Caine’s opinion of Hall Caine, and for
that it is a shame to take the money.
This is really a biography of a greai
man by a great man. Caine was not born
in the Isle of Man, but squatted there
against the wishes of the Manx, purely for
literary purposes. And the claim he
pegged out was a rich one. He furnishes
an account of his boyhood in Man, where
his uncle was a butcher and farmer
cultivating thirty poor and hungry acres
of hill and bog. In his uncle’s cart he
used to ride to Douglas, safely ensconcec
among the “plucks ” and “heads.” He
gives interesting pictures of the primitive
life of his people in their small cottage.
Caine was first apprenticed to an archi-
tect in Liverpool, returned to Man as a
schoolmaster, but was recalled by his
architect, and ultimately became assistant
to a builder. Then began a correspond-
ence of a year’s duration with Rossetti,
the poet and the enthusiastic disciple
writing almost every day.
W
The reader will find nothing but sheer
delight in Hall Caine’s view of Hall
Caine. He mentions that Gladstone, to
whom the boy of 15 had to go in tem-
porary charge of a survey party to lay-
out a new estate, listened quite
attentively to him for a consider-
able time, and then “ patted me on
the top of my head, and said I would
do something some day.” He has
done it. Caine quotes eulogistic letters
from Rossetti about Caine, and disclaims
any personal motive. He modestly says
he has not “quoted these passages in
order to show how in my youth a great
man praised me.” Rossetti wrote to his
admirer :
When you are able to enlarge your sphere,
I look to you as destined to rank among the
coming teachers of men.
Well, he has taught us how to make
money by writing plays like The Christian.
For two and a half years I had the
daily coaching of Rossetti’s forty years of
reading, and the constant guidance of his
fine selective instinct.
It seems a pity that Rossetti is not
alive to-day to tell us exactly what he
thinks of his pupil. But Caine was a
useful friend. He tells us so, himself. He
sold for fifteen hundred guineas the
painter’s “Dante’s Dream ” to Liverpool,
vl/
Caine pours a tank-full of maudlin
sympathy over himself anent his first
effort to get a book published—a collec-
tion of lectures. The publisher, per the
office-boy, shot the MS. back with his
compliments and thanks. This common-
place of every author’s experience Caine
puts down as “ a.part of the anarchy of
things which Hardy considers the rule
of life.” And, in after life, when Caine
knew that publisher (now dead) he was
magnanimous.
I never poisoned one hour of our inter-
course by telling him how, when I was
young, and a word of cheer would have
buoyed me up, he made me drink the waters
of Marah. ... I have outgrown my bitter-
ness ; and, of course, I show no malice.
The peevish bitterness of the Hall
Caine mind could not have been more
clearly shown than by that reflection. His
first novel, at which he tells us he sweated
drops of blood, was really a composite
affair. He seems to have inflicted it on
all his literary friends in turn, and revised
and rewrote it again and again on their
various advice. He even made “a happy
ending ” in place of his original tragedy.
When writing his first Manx novel
Caine acknowledges valuable assistance
from the Manx poet, Hugh S. Browne.
The Deemster was published, and the Isle
of Man “ appeared to be totally un-
aware of its existence.” However,
It has always been a source of pathetic
amusement to me to remember how the
island itself received its first novelist.
But Wilkie Collins wrote to Caine
(quoted by Caine) that Caine was
“among the masters of our craft.”
But this genius was ill content with
his pecuniary success as a novelist.
He frankly states that money has
never been an aim in his life, then—
characteristic touch—“if money has come
to me,” etc. He had left journalism—
he was doing work for the Liverpool
Mercury for £2OO a year, with perhaps
£lOO more from literary reviews—to
take up novel-writing. He was paid
£lOO for his first story as a serial, but
could get only £75 for the copyright as a
book. For The Deemster he received
,£l5O. During 10 years he wrote five
novels, “every one of them ponsidered a
success,” before he made a penny beyond
his necessary expenses. (Ambitious Aus-
tralian novelists please note !) Since
then, hoAvever,
Taking the earnings of plays and books
together, it is not improbable that as much
money has come to me as ever came to any-
one, not now living, who followed the pro-
fession of the pen.
For his first play, in which his name
was bracketed with Wilson Barrett, he
got a royalty of two guineas a perform-
ance, up to £BOO, after which he got
nothing. And, naturally, since Caine is
writing the story, he thought it “ a
notable first night. The audience was
great, for in all the years since I have
never seen so many really distinguished
people in one place.” At least, we may
be sure there was one really distinguished
person there.
The growth of Australian sentiment goes
on apace. One illustration of this adolescence
in our national literature is The Australian
Birthday Book, edited by Bertram Stevens,
and published by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. Such a book is certain to have a
great sale. Stevens, who has done good
service for Australia in his Anthology, herein
selects from his wide knowledge of our
literature passages from our own poets instead
of the foreign excerpts that hitherto we have
had to put up with in books of this class.
The selection is varied and apt; and the
quality of the verse and the number of poets
put under contribution are equally remark-
able. The birthdays of our citizens distin-
guished in discovery, statesmanship,
literature and the arts are noted in the
letterpress.
AN AUSTRALAISE.
They are inarching, marching on us,
They are marching across the sea,
With the big ships tramping slowly
And the cruisers steaming free.
They come with their cannons ready,
With their bayonets burnished bright,
For the nation our fathers fashioned
And the realm that is ours by right.
So Australia summons her children,
She summons them one and all.
And cursed be the heart of the craven
That answers not to her call.
From the saltbush plains to the mountains,
From the mountains down to the sea,
She calls them from halls of splendor
And hovels of misery.
She needs her sons from the city,
She needs them more from the plains,
With fingers quick on the trigger
And firm on the bridle reins.
With hearts that are strong to conquer,
When the might of a foeman frowns,
When his big guns shiver the mountains,
And scatter the coastal towns.
Now the azure darkens above us,
But we have no fear for our fate,
For we battle for those who love us,
And we battle with those we hate.
And the blood of the rash invader
Shall redden Australian foam,
For he fights for the greed of country,
And we for the love of home.
And secure in Australian soldiers,
We can laugh at his futile hate,
And hurl him back in the ocean,
When he knocks at our harbor gate.
For we’ll fight for our name and nation,
While the Cross still adorns her skies,
And our pay be Australian kisses,
And smiles from Australian eyes.
S. A.
ERNEST CASEY.
Words
Language, being a living organism, is sub-
ject to the law of growth ; but the gramma-
rians of all ages have striven to classify it as if
it were a collection of dead beetles. It is
against, this predilection of the pedagogues
that Thomas 11. Lounsbury, of Yale Uni-
versity, protests in The Standard of Usage
in English (Harper, per Dymock’s Library).
In every age there has risen the shrill,
despairing wail of the grammarian that the
language was becoming corrupt ; and from
generation to generation there has been made
the vain effort permanently to “fix ” the lan-
guage in its bygone purity. Lounsbury
details the various efforts of this kind that
have been made for centuries past—in vain.
The only language that can be petrified in
its perfection of form is a language that/is
very dead. If one Ancient Grecian survived
to-day, in six m'onths the grammarians would
have to bring out a new Greek grammar.
The Ancient Grecian could not well get
along in this modern world without Greek
words for threepenny bar, ivhisky, news-
paper and tram-strike.
\t>
Every language lives by becoming corrupt.
Corruptions are a sign of its vitality, for they
are a sign of its adaptability to present uses.
Lounsbury justly points out that:
“It is the present meaning of a word
which determines the propriety of its use ;
not its past meaning, still less its meaning in
the tongue from which it came.” Thus, it
is of no avail to assert that etymolo-
gically we cannot say “examine into,”
or ‘ ‘ under tiie circumstances,” or “averse
to.” We do say all these things, and the
best writers have been saying them for
one or more centuries. A race that is intel-
lectually alive needs new words to express
its new thoughts. The largeness of the
number of words struggling for entrance
(e.g., through the newspaper) into a language
is a sign of its health, not of its decay.
After all, a language never moves far from
itself ; for against every new locution there
is always arrayed the heavy conservative
influence of a firmly-established great litera-
ture. Each new locution has to prove that
it is needed by a very exhaustive ballot.
And, finally :
“ Strictly speaking, there is no such thing
as a language becoming corrupt. It is an
instrument which will be just what those
who use it choose to make it. . . . Each one
of us to-day is employing expressions which
either outrage the rules of strict grammar,
or disregard the principles of analogy, or
belong by their origin to what we now deem
the worst sort of vulgarisms.”
The real danger of “corruption” comes
from the affected precision of the formal
grammarians, who array themselves in hos-
tility to the natural development of the living
language. Neither the purist nor the man-
on-the-newspaper is the final authority. The
standard of usage ’is the usage of great
modern writers. A new locution will not
survive unless adopted by great writers—-
that is, great writers of the present day—as,
for example, the writing on this page. (No
notice will be taken of the protests of indig-
nant contributors on this point.) In short,
words are what we make them. The mean-
ing that living men put into the words they
use is alone of any significance.’ We use
language because it belongs to us, and not as
if we belonged to it.
v»/
Among the matters upon which usage is
not yet settled, Lounsbury mentions and
discusses the phrase the two first, instead of
the first two. You are, at present, at liberty
to use either. None with a plural verb is
another locution about which the author
professes himself indifferent. •
“It is needless to say to any person who
has made himself familiar with the best
usage, either written or spoken, that none
has been and is employed indifferently as a
singular and a plural ; if anything, more fre-
quently in the latter number than in the
former.”
And etymologically either is correct; for
the Anglo-Saxon nan was inflected both in
the singular and the plural ; while none is
not, contrary to the popular supposition, a
late contraction of no one.
A construction which Lounsbury proves to
be the standard usage, despite the gram-
marians, is that in which the verb in the
passive voice is followed by an object, e.g.,
“He was refused entrance.” You can use
this locution without any fine for bad
language.
Among words which are not yet fully
accepted, Lounsbury adduces: burgle, en-
thuse and resurrect ; but he does not mention
the expressive Bulletin word glode, the past
tense of glide. All these words, however,
must ultimately be adopted; they are too
useful to be left out out in the cold ; they
will follow the example of such words as
greed, tireless (instead of untiring), and loan
(as a verb), all of which have been admitted
into the language only after a long struggle.
The word female comes in for a long discus-
sion. It has been in the language for six
centuries, and till recently no one, male or
female, objected to its use as applied to the
human female. But within the last genera-
tion females have seen in it an opprobrious
epithet, and there is now a sort of feminine
revolt against its employment. The females
of our species have objected to its applica-
tion to them, though, so far, no male has
protested against being so designated. So,
under that ban, females must henceforth be
referred to as loomen, which all females
aren’t, and all male writers are hereby
warned.
\t>
Upon the clamant question of the “split
infinitive,” Lounsbury offers sensible advice.
This locution, e.g., “to vainly ask,” instead
of “ to ask vainly,” or “vainly to ask”—
consists of the insertion of an adverb be-
tween the to and the infinitive, thus “ split-
ting ” it. It is never found nowadays in the
English reviews : it runs riot over the
Sydney fiewspapers. Lounsbury gives ex-
amples of its use by the best authors ; but
grammarians are inexpressibly pained when-
ever it appears. Lounsbury thinks that the
split infinitive is bound to come into uni-
versal use. “ The practice of inserting an
adverb between the infinitive sign and the
infinitive has steadily increased during the
last hundred years, and goes on increasing
still. Even a slight examination of the
best and the worst contemporary pro-
duction, both in England and America, will
make clear that the universal adoption of
this usage is as certain as anything in the
future well can be. The ranks of those who
employ the construction will be steadily
swelled by new recruits, who will use, not
only without scruple, but without thought,
a method of expression which they meet
everywhere in print and hear everywhere in
conversation. The mere weight of numbers
will eventually settle the dispute.”
Incidentally, it may be remarked that
the English critics of the present writer’s
first novel damned it with the peda-
gogue’s remark that it “ simply reeked with
split infinitives.” And though The Bidletin
with praiseworthy energy heroically splits
every infinitive in sight, the writer of this
page prefers not to use the tomahawk upon
the verb. So you can take your choice.
»
As a souvenir of the Labor Fair in Mel-
bourne, Senator E. Findley publishes The
Sunrise; a sixpenny annual, admirably pro-
duced. Its contents hold to a high literary
level, and the popularity of the Labor move-
ment is evident from the list of contributors.
This quatrain by Mary Gilmour is worth re-
publishing
BEREFT.
Yea, in the night I lift mine eyes to see, afar,
The Silver Lamp of Mary, shining, yet un-
burned,
And stars —that are the eyes of women, back-
ward turned
Towards the earth, where children are.
“Den, the Drover,” enunciates some
horse-sense :
I jus bin sittin on the edge er me bunk won-
derm wot some er them Bulletin poit blokes
feeds tiier prads on. Pegasuses they calls em,
don’t they ? Seems ter me, judgin lie ther re-
sults ther’s some crook sort er stuff gets into the
manger now n then. I was avin a screw at that
fancy picher uv Enry Lawson on ther Red Page
when I got ther idear inter me thinkin stall.
Now, if there’s any cove knows anythink erbout
orse-feed its yours an ceterer, and I reckon
Enry’s erbout the most sensible feeder uv ther
bunch if e wouldn’t let the soursobs an Bathurst
burrs get inter ther nose-bag so often. That other
bloke oo’s picter wus in lately, Randolph Bed-
ford, e seems ter think that oats straight is a good,
diet, an then ride im on the spur. Er course e
knows is own orse better’n me, but e best look out
e ain’t ad up fer furious ridin or break is neck or
nothink.
H. McCrae seems ter turn is moke out ermongst
them ther Centaurs pretty often and e picks up a
good lot er flowers errnongst ther grass. So does
Adams’s prad, or elst ther flowers gets inter ther
chaffcutter. Louis Esson, e seems to get them
satyrs an nimps ter do is arvestin, but I ain’t
much shook on that Olympia brand er baled ay
meself. But I wanter give Grant Ervey ther
straight tip, an you tell im from me that no neddy
is goin ter keep is condition if yer only feed im
acks uv parlvment. Give im some green stuff,
sonny. Rod’rik Quinn, e seems to know ow to
look after a moke, but e don’t seem too fond er
ridin, an I reckon Ed ward Dyson’s got a whole
mob uv bloods an draughts out at grass some-
wheres, all thoroughly broke in an most of em
guaranteed sound in wind an wing. Now, there’s
that cove you ad in at the start —the coot with
the mo, Barnard O’Dowd. I don’t mind ownin
up at once es got me fair beat. I couldn’t tell yer
wot e feeds is ole prad on if yer paid me. But I
tell yer this, straight ; e must er got inter ther
Darlin Pea somewheres.


Jl
v
No. 906—BLACK CANVAS VOILE, trimmed
Glace Silk, 47/6.
BLACK STRIPE VOILE, trimmed Glac<s
Silk, 55/-
No. 595-JAPANESE SILK SKIRT,
unlined, tucked at foot, Ivory, Navy,
Brown, Green, Black; length, 38in. to
45in.; waist, 23in. to 27in., 23/6.
No. 405 —STYLISH SKIRT IN SILK STRIPE
VOILE, finished with bands self material, 55/-
BLACK STRIPE TAFFETA VOILE, 34/6.
L
Fashion and Economy
combine in
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
r
rasa
M
M
...
H
No. 844—GIRLS’ PLAIN SOFT ORGANDIE MUS-
LIN DRESSES, tucked and trimmed Muslin
Insertion-
Sizes, 20in. and 22m., only
6/ 6/6
No. 870-GIRLS’ WHITE PLAIN LAWN DRESSES,
tucked and trimmed Cambric Insertion —
Sizes, 20in. and 22in. only
51- 5/6
No. 831—GTRLS’ FINE WHITE INDIAN LAWN
DRESSES, for Girls 5 to 12 years, tucked and
trimmed Valenciennes Edging and Embroidery-
Full length, 24in. 27in. 30in. 33im 3Gin.
6/6 71- 7/6 81- 8/6
The prevailing Modes, direct from the
realms where Fashion reigns supreme,
are artistically and accurately presented in
our Illustrated FASHION PORTFOLIO.
Write for a copy, posted free on application.
9
ft
lEfc
ss
■ft.
ft.
Sft'
No. 631 —LADY’S IVORY JAPANESE SILK
SKIRT, trimmed Guipure Applique, unlined ;
length, 38in. to 41in.; waist, 23in. to 27in., 35/-
No. 318-CANVAS VOILE SKIRT, Cream
or Black, tucked and trimmed Chiffon
Glace; length, 38in. to 45in.; waist, 23in.
to 27in., 24/6.
No. 905-BLACK CANVAS VOILE, trimmed
Taffeta Silk Bands; length, 38in. to 45in. ;
23in. to 30in., 47/6.
STYLISH SILK STRIPE VOILE, 55/-
Black
waist,
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


f
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd. *
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
toWeTehh L 7 ffS" ded t 0 our staff of hi - h }j r effluent EXPERTS, who pay special attention
h i I 1 ? I’. 1 ’.; lnd disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly,
their*™?, 0, 1 I‘ll 1 ‘ ll^ lclll f t ? es , are ed by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
Mam. 1 nil particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
sm l !
iniffl
ao p°flf 0 «
I vnMVW 3 ' I3ViS
1 3«1
3|
New Edition
with Cards, 1/-. How
Man His Own Builder,
Lover’s Guide, 1/3.
Hamilton’s Great StXble
Manual and Horse
Doctor, 8/6, Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Cyclopaedia,
latest edition, 1248 pages,
400 colored plates and en-
gravings, 7/6. Dr. Faulk-
ner’s Original Book of
Nature, the only genuine
and unabridged edition,
3/6, posted 4/-. Comic Re-
citer, 1/-. Ready-made
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride of the First Night,
1/3. That 11a,scal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
to Mesmerise, 1/-. Every
1/6. Letter Writer, ]/-.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
dsf
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted. 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
m?~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS
free, Bd.
Tiik Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
w
s»
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/-post free.
OTHER MODELS ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN 9 CO.. Pty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFE'T’TTTotvt
WINES The Best B ™ nds only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
f V) TAILOR-MADE f n
V#W » CORSETS. V>tO
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
a) «:
TM\S*
KADI
CORStTS
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the Beal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets. J
A- Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
»’ » „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
sdf
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
sdf
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
sd
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
or F " 11 TJ Pa^ l iculars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Bettor Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
DIGESTIVE ORGANS
DISARRANGED.
SLEEPLESSNESS.
Mr. James Bell, bootmaker, of 16 Parramatta-
road, Petersham, is not one of the fortunate ones
who escaped the invasion of influenza, which was
experienced in this country a few years ago. Speak-
ing on the subject to our reporter, Mr. Bell said
“ Influenza is a complaint that has singled me
out for attention more than once, as I had an
attack when living in New Zealand, and again in
this country. If there is anything worse for com-
pletely making a wreck of a man, I would like to
know what it is. So far as I am concerned, it
made a thorough hash of my health, and a pretty
tough time I had before I made any headway
against it. The heavy burning pains in my head
were something terrible, for they had the effect of
making me so despondent that I could find no
pleasure in life at all. If a man’s head is not clear
and free from pain, all the money in the world
would not make him happy, and I was far from
it, believe me. As each day dawned, so were
those wretched aches in attendance, as if for the
purpose of casting a gloom over my life. My mouth
was dry and parched, and there was a fever-
ishness right through my body, which was most
distressing. Not one of ray limbs was free from
aches of a very tiresome nature—aches that were
positively painful, and when I stood upon my feet
my legs felt as if they would collapse beneath me.
Together with these discomforts was a feeling of
restlessness which served to intensify my unhappi-
ness, for I could not rest contented anywhere for
any length of time, and completely exhausted my-
self in moving about from place to place.”
“It would not take much exertion to tire you,
and you’d be glad to get to bed at night?”
“Well, for all the sleep I got, I might just as
well have been up and about, for that was one of
the peculiarities of my sickness. Although I felt
so feeble and tired that I could have dropped any-
where, yet when I retired to rest I found much
difficulty in getting to sleep. And I had gone on
in a very bad way for a considerable time when I
happened to be put on to a medicine that altered
the whole aspect of my affairs. An old employer
of mine from Melbourne saw me one day and
explained how ill he had been from the same com-
plaint as mine, and said that he had been quite
fixed up by Clements Tonic, at the same time
strongly urging me to get some.”
“ And you put his advice into effect?”
“I am pleased to say I did, and I consider it
about the best step I ever took in my life, for the
unpleasantness I was laboringunder began to vanish
from that date. I don’t think I said anything
about the dizzy feelings I used to have when my
head seemed to spin round like a top, neither did
I mention the unsettled state of my nerves, which
had become quite unhinged, and my appetite had
left me long ago. And the longer my sufferings
existed the greater the feeling ofdepression became.
Ilie lowness of spirits was something terrible,
and I hadn’t enough energy to try and shake it
off. Sickness always fetches one down, and, my
word, it succeeded in doing so in my case. My
digestive organs were altogether disarranged, too,
in consequence of which I endured no end of dis-
comfort after swallowing any nourishment. Pains
affected me about the shoulders and the loins, and
in the chest there was an unusual heaviness that
testified to the undigested condition of my food.
But I came to the turn in the road when I began
to employ Clements Tonic, which is easily the
best medicine I have ever had any experience
with. And I think that, as influenza and the
other ailments 1 suffered from are so frequently
encountered, it is only mj r duty to tell my fellow
citizens how they can be cured, as I was.
Clements Tonic is the thing. It added strength
to my enfeebled system with each dose, it invigor-
ated my nerves in a way that astonished me; it
brought sleep to my hitherto restless nights; it
provided the appetite that enabled me to eat; and,
finally, it restored my internal organs to that state
of healthfulness which enabled me to digest what-
ever food I did take. Report these facts for
others’ good.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JAMES BELL, of 716 Parramatta Road, Petersham,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; anc} I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, moo.
Subscribed and declared at Petersham, this eighteenth l
day of March, one thousand .nine hundred and eight,-
before me, <
3] ALEX. SMITH, J.P.


Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do we, for
we know that just a few doses of
Mger’s
'Cherrii federal
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
fsd
iVe despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £®
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Larue profit <
easily made. Write u. once, using sufficient poßtnge,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
. on sample machine. ,
MEAD CYCLE CQ„ D e Pt .2 B o LIVERPOOL.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
“My little son, Norman, aged
eight months, was very ill with
a cold on the lungs, and the
doctor advised
me to use
SCOTT’S
Emulsion,
saying that
if SCOTT’S
did not do
him good,
nothing
would. Less
than half a
bottle cured
him and he
is now a
■
ml:- :W
fine healthy norman boughen
boy.” (Mrs.) J. Boughen.
Rosewood, via Ipswich, Queensland. 21/5/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why:
The doctor ordered SCOTT’S because
SCOTT’S is the standard cod liver oil
emulsion. SCOTT’S is also the original
emulsion which has been widely recom-
mended by doctors for 32 years past. In
addition to this, every season brings a
great budget of letters quite as enthusias-
tic as the one printed above. There is a
reason for this, and it is that no pains are
ever spared to procure the finest possible
materials for manufacture by the original
perfected SCOTT process, which has never
yet been equalled. Therefore, when pur-
chasing, don’t ask for “ Emulsion ; ’’ ask for
and SCOTT’S Emulsion—the differ-
ence between them means a cure for you!
From all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
Scott’s
EMULSION
See that “ the Fishman with the Fish ”
is on the Package.
IRISH
f
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, j*
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
sdf
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERGENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
Breathing Disease.
Infectious diseases are breathed into
the system from those affected with disease
or from bad smells; yet how many women
breathe daily the offensive steam from
common soaps made from rancid fats, and
keep their hands for hours in such solu-
tions, and the clothing from such soap
suds is worn next the tender skin. No
wonder disease and eczema are prevalent!
Users of Sunlight Soap know the differ-
ence between that and the pure, healthful
smell from the vegetable oils and pure
edible fats in Sunlight Soap.
df
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.’ 1
— Lancet.
d
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS,
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
fd
It’s so simple!
to make just as much or as little pure, fresh soda-
■BBBBBMMBBMMBBBBBSa £3O
water as you want, just when you want It, wherever
you may be. All you need are a
“Prana” Sparklet Syphon,
“Prana” Sparklet Bulbs,
and some water. The latter you
can always get.
For sale by all Stores, Ironmongers,
&c., throughout Australasia.
For full particulars apply to any of the
undermentioned firms, who will give you
the name and address of your nearest dealer.
S. Hof fnung & Co., Sydney and Brisbane; Rocke, Tcmpsitt & Co., Melbourne;
G. Wood, Son & Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Fremantle;
Alfred Shaw, Ltd., Townsville.
Sole Makers: Aerators, Ltd., ** Prana ** Sparklet Works, London.
m
'jmm
Pl 3
172 ‘
NATURE decreed and science has made it
possible for all women to have a full, well-
rounded, perfectly developed bust. Do not
stay thin and scrawny.
Dr. Falliere’s
Developes the bust, feeds the tissues, and
rapidly and permanently increases the weight
of the most attenuated or badly nourished
woman. From five to ten inches can be
added to the bust. Your weight can be per-
manently increased by five pounds weekly.
Free Sample for 2d. Stamp,
We want every thin, undeveloped woman to try
our treatment free, and to have our free book,
“ Lovely Woman.” Sample and book both sent
securely enclosed for 2d. stamp.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO,: Suite 5
Top Floor-Take Lift Linden Court, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Trees in Collins-street.
The trees—the trees in Collins-street
Are showing spots of tender green ;
Shyly the trappings on them cling
Like gossamer on a fairy queen ;
And thrill us with this latest Spring.
They tell the news in dainty wise,
The color hardly seems to grow,
Unconscious of the glad surprise
To us, who pass them to and fro.
Yet thus it is they yearly greet
Us citizens down Collins-street.
The trees —the trees of Collins-street
Make colonnades of spreading shade,
A refuge from the city’s grime,
And up and down the long arcade
Keep cool the walk in summer time.
Beneath their gloom the roysterers laugh,
And ’mid the leaves, in downy nest,
The fledglings hear the telegraph
Hum them a lullaby to rest,
And the patter of eternal feet—
Lost in their leaves, in Collins-street.
The trees—the trees of Collins-street
Are bowls of gold when April’s nigh ;
For Nature, with alchemic touch,
Has piled up gold. The misers sigh
And grow full thoughtful over much.
In bountiful and generous way,
For us ere comes their winter’s sleep,
They splash the vista in the day
With banks of color running deep.
At night the blue electrics beat
On golden crowns in Collins-street.
The trees—the trees in Collins-street
Have stayed their sap in languid beds ;
With flickering swish each hurried wind
Bright diadems cuts from their heads,
And leaves but bare brown twigs behind.
Those woeful unclad limbs of thine,
Sleep lighter ’neath our winter blue.
Cold arms stretch out into the shine
And let our south light filter through.
Disrobed and bare, you’re still a treat,
You sleeping trees in Collins-street.
VIC.
G.B.D.
Kisses.
You who, by seashore and mountain pine,
Have captured kisses not a few,
Who have taken your share, as I have mine,
Of the gifts that the kind gods gave to you
Sweet is the list you’ve to reckon through,
And none to be marked with vain regret—
Yet, since with pleasure there must be rue,
What of the kisses you didn’t get ?
Gracious the lips that didn’t decline
To pay the toll that you counted due.
A kiss as love’s token or friendship’s sign—
What does it matter, one or two ?
A fond reward for a worshipper true
Gloves to a kiss make a crafty bet—
All who a roguish lass pursue,
What of the kisses you didn’t get?
Was it, perchance, that the lamplight’s shine
Lay over-bright where you said adieu ?
Were the eyes too careless or too divine
That you lost yourself in their depths of blue !
The face you left when the Spring winds blew,
Was it laughter lit or teardrop wet
That you somehow shirked what you meant to
do—
What of the kisses you didn’t get ?
Envoy.
Lads and lovers of every hue,
Ancients who linger a little yet,
You boast of the kisses that once you knew—
But what of the kisses you didn’t get ?
N.s.w.
R. LUMSDAINE.
Ballade of a Philistine.
The levelled lance and the tourney’s din.
The crash of the charger’s overthrow,
A-many will strive and one will win
A blazoned name e’er the sun is low.
A crown of gold for a brow of snow,
A scarf for a pledge of constancy.
It reads very well in “ Ivanhoe,”
But none of your good old times for me.
Laughter and color and splendid sin,
Smiles for a friend and steel for a foe.
Prelates and princes that throng within
A palace frescoed by Angelo.
And see the tower of Giotto grow !
A bubble blown by a god in glee.
It must have been rather fine, yon know,
But none of your good old times for rr.e.
I bear no grudge against Saladin ;
Besides, he is dead long years ago.
I do not admire the ladies in
The tales of the late Boccaccio.
He may have pulled at the long, long bow,
But what about Kate de Medici ?
D ays may be drab that were once aglow,
But none of your good old times for me.
Hey for the tram when abroad I go,
And the buttered bun and the cup of tea,
And the knights who deal in calico.
Oh, none of your good old times for me!
MAOKILAND.
TAIWA.


sf
ggfcg/
/
o
s 1
°2
C
6 V
a
It Stands for Wunderlich Metal
Ceilings—The Safest and Best.
These famous steel ceilings represent the most modern development In house building
and add a distinctive charm to the home that is pleasing to every person of taste.
They are permanent, adaptable, fire-resisting, and do not harbour dirt or microbes.
And they cost so little for freight, tool The expense of sending the lime and sand
tor ceilings of a house is over four times as much as that for Wunderlich Metaf
oneets. Is that not worth considering ?
Send for our new catalogue, which tells you all about these beautiful steel ceilings—
me most artistic form of Interior decoration yet devised.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Postal Address
Box 474, G.P.O.
Sydney Showrooms; 56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Showrooms : 243 Collins St.
mm
0
0
0.
0.
0
o TJie*jEssen ce t'eTli ty
CADBURY’S COCOA
jives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
iverything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
SJLHOddnS
MILLIONS
Most men say shaving
is a nuisance—until they try the Auto Strop
Safety Razor. Then they readily admit that
this wonderful little razor makes shaving
agreeable and easy. With the
Auto Strop
Safety Razor you can restore the
original keenness of the blade in a moment—
without taking the razor apart. 1 his guarantees
a clean, smooth, comfortable shave*
every time you use the AutoStrtfp.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor, with 12 blades nf ►
stee , special horse-hide strop, in case complete, 25/= nett.
Agents for Manufacturers:
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
sdf
This shows how the
Auto Strop strops itself,
lE*
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzies, Surprise and Joke Novelties-
THE XJ.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
dog (or
man)with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatehmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
ment for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, or post f reeanywhere for 3/-
The Joker’s Squirt
Cinematograph.
A real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a micros-
copic lens fitted into one end. While the
victim is absorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing something in-
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the vest pocket. Full directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
ds
LiiJimniiiiiimimimiiminiiiiiiiii
1
The Searchlight Elec-
tric Pocket Lamp ana
Scarf Pin can be used as an
ordinary lamp for lighting: pur-
poses, also as a Novelty Electric
Scarf Pin. The
whole outfit
guaranteed in
perfect working
order, throwing
a dazzling bright
light. Price,
complete, 2/S,
or post free 3/3.
Extra Batteries
for re-charging
lamp 1/-, or post
free 1/3.
Wholesale and
Retail.
fds
f
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition just published.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.’
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
injilc
MARQUE
“RATITE”
IS USED
by Municipal, Military and Naval Authorities,
by Steamship Companies, by Grain Stores,
Slaughter Houses, and Factories all over the
civilised world.
SCIENTIFIC and INFALLIBLE
RAT
Exterminator.
Harmless to Man and to all Domestic Animals.
3/6 per Tube ; 3 Tubes, 10/- Post Free.
Regular Weekly Supplies received by
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD.
The Surgical and Veterinary Supply House,
246 Queen Street, BRISBANE,
as Agents for
Pasteur Vaccine Co. Ltd.,
7 Rue Meyerbeer, PARIS.
BROOKE’S _
Xemos"
ƒ
Sweetened lemon Squash
is absolutely the best
FINEST FLAVORED
BEST KEEPING QUALITIES
FIRST PRIZE MEDAL
Royal Agricultural Show Sydney 1908
. (
E-RICH Sc CP LIP, SYDNEY Jk BRISBAME
X,
m
.
r
mm
iSm
1
i'.uil
U'.X'U
AVENARIUS is not only a cure for
WHITE. ANTiS, but tbe best Wood-
Preserving oil Known. It strength-
ens tbe life of tbe best timber, and
doubles tbe life of weaK timber.
wholesale AGENTS? £. RICH &. CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1501.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1908.
PltlCß 6 b
FROM COAL-MINER TO PRIME MINISTER.
AUSTRALIA: “COME UP, FISHER I YOUR COUNTRY WANTS YOU.”


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1908.
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 10.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse, and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay}, contri-
buted during the year by the foremost Austra-
lasian writers.
The illustrations will be the finest Black and
White work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence
of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURN** will be
allowed for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly '... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiik Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every ■week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macluod. Manairing Director.
How to A drives* Letters.
Correspondents to Tiih Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good, thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bulletin,” is the vropes
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ’will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable). Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
M >S'. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded, without stamps
for return it •will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inutou rs in HI nr./: unit White.
Anyone supplying to -Tub Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or 'wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on accept,a,nee. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The condition!: under ivhich
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tins Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at Bii.msg Australasian
Office, 115 High liolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central hews Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C.;
Irvine and Eorsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Sjrecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size x lUin.,
ivill be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1908.
TO PRIME MINISTER ANDREW
FISHER-A WELCOME.
The establishment of the "Fisher Government
looks like a good omen for Australia. The new
Prime Minister represents the strongest party in
the Parliament, therefore the chief position is his
by right And, if justice is done, he will have a
right to a dissolution, should he be unable to
i/u a. .
carry on, for if Fisher, with the strongest paity
behind him, can’t keep the machine of State
going, it is certain that no other leader can do so
—at least not by methods that will bear honest
inspection. If it is decided‘that this House of
Representatives is unworkable, somebody must
get a dissolution. Alfred Deakin has surren-
dered any claim to it by his resignation, and to
give it to Reid, as the generally-absent leader of
a mere fragment, or to Forrest, as the only
lialf-recognised leader of a .-till smaller frag-
ment, would be sheer absurdity. Fisher is
a Queenslander, which, for more reasons than
one, is a point in his favor. So far, there
have been three Prime Ministers and two
lialf-Prime Ministers, and of these 2b came
from N.S.W. and 1| from Victoria. It is not
good to permit the growth of a habit or precedent
to the effect that the Prime Minister’s job is the
perquisite of the two most populous States, and
in this respect Fisher’s arrival gives affairs a
larger Federal aspect. The fact that the bulk of
the Ministry—six members out of nine—comes
from the three less populous mainland States—
South Australia, Westralia and Queensland —also
suggests that more consideration will be given to
the great areas that want populating, and that
they won’t be wholly overshadowed by the inte-
rests of the small areas that are fairly well popu-
lated already. And the fact that the settlement
of the Federal capital question has passed into the
hands of a Ministry in which there is only one
Victorian, and which brings two-thirds ofitsmem-
bership from outside both Victoria and N.S.W.,
should shame even the S. M. Herald and Tele-
graph and Evening News away from the squalid
old lie about “ Victorian influences ” and “Vic-
torian conspiracy ” and such like.
* * * *
Judging by his past record, Andrew Fisher is,
to a great extent, Alfred Deakin over again
with two differences—his democratic principles go
a little further than Deakin’s, and he isn’t cursed
with the superfluous affability which so often
made Deakin’s democratic principles of so little
use to him that he might almost as well have had
none at all. Deakin was, and is, a splendid Aus-
tralian, but he has always been burdened with an
exaggerated courtesy which prevented him going
the whole hog, how'ever urgent the hog might be,
lest he should hurt the feelings of somebody whose
feelings really didn’t matter; and he is loaded
with the sort of tender political conscience which
makes a man stop short on a busy railway
crossing when the fast train is coming, to
wonder if he did exactly the right thing
the week before last, or if the course he
had contemplated in the middle of the previous
month and a half might not have been better after
all. Alfred Deakin had the chance to create a
magnificent Federal capital—a place worthy of its
position as the one capital on earth which is the
political centre of a whole continent, and with
Opportunities attached to it which might have
made it one of the greatest and most prosperous
as well as one of the most picturesque cities of the
globe. But he couldn’t bear to be seriously rude or
unpleasant to the selfish and unpatriotic Goths of
the Congested Population Party, who wanted a
town in a dreary place beside,a dirty tank so
that it might be close up to the densest
mass of people in Australia; and his fantastic
conscience wouldn’t allow him to make the
matter a party question, and to tell Lyne and
a few other scheming malcontents that they had
to vote straight or leave the party. He pre-
ferred to abandon his friends rather than be
disagreeable to his enemies. Therefore he was
in the act of fooling away his splendid oppor-
tunity when the political downfall came ; fortu-
nately he hadn’t finished fooling it away, and
there is still time to repair the mischief. When
the High Court ruled out the New Protection,
the alternative lay between making all industrial
legislation a Federal concern, or giving the Austra-
lian Parliament power to legislate as regards wages
and conditions of labor in protected industries
only. The latter course might mean interminable
worry, uncertainty and litigation, for many in-
dustries are protected as to some of their materials
and not as to others ; but Deakin’s amazing con-
science wouldn’t let him go the whole necessary
hog. To do so might offend certain State Pre-
miers and other discourteous beings. Deakin lias
always been an honest whole-souled Protectionist,
yet it was commonly recognised that if Lyne
hadn’t put his head down and his tail up, and
shoved hard with his trunk and both tusks, the
new tariff would have been a poor thing—not that
it is a very good thing even now.
If Andrew Fisher lives up to his reputation, he
will do the things Alfred Deakin meant todo, but
didn’t; he will do wholly the things that Deakin
half-did, or intended half-doing ; and he will do a
lot of things which Deakin if he had remained
in office would probably have done ten or twenty-
five years hence, after profound thought and a
stupendous effort not to be disagreeable to any-
body in.the doing of them. Fisher’s reputation
is that of a strong man who knows the value of
time. It is difficult to imagine him lingering for
three years over the Monaro capital question in
order to oblige an insurrectionary CaRRUTHERS
and an uncivil Wade, instead of taking possession
of the selected territory—by military occupation,
if necessary—and thus forcing his opponents to
carry their alleged grievance to the High Court
for definite settlement. The strong South Aus-
tralian and Westralian element in the new Minis-
try suggests that a vigorous effort will be made to
complete the transfer of the Northern Territory,
.and to begin work on the two transcontinental
railways that are so urgently needed for the
defence and development of Australia. Fisher
is partly suspected of being sound on the
defence question, and he is known to be
sound on the anti-borrowing policy ; and
he hasn’t the hair-splitting instinct which has
always made Deakin hang fire on the urgent
matter of a Federal progressive land-tax and a
whole-souled land settlement programme. If the
new Prime Minister will hold on to his power
fiercely, truculently and remorselessly, and clamor
like the Day of Judgment for a dissolution should
he be defeated, he should do things of some size.
A sudden dissolution and a general election would
almost certainly upset Reid, Wilks, Liddell,
Willis, Archer, Wynne, Quick, Iceberg Irvine,
Harper, and several others, especially if the new
Government pushes through a Second Ballot Bill
early, and thus protects itself against minority re-
presentation. An amazing number of its op-
ponents are mere minority representatives who
arrived on a split vote, and a Second Ballot Act
would kill several of them dead at the first time of
asking.
* * * *
Andrew Fisher, judged by what the country
kuows of him, doesn’t belong, by any means,
to the category of the McGowen calamity in
N.S.W. He is rather in the list which includes
Premier Price of S.A. and which included
William Henry Browne, of Queensland, until
the death of that politician robbed the State of
one of its best patriots. The policy of the Federal
Labor party aims at making Australia a country
which is free of debt, which is closely settled by
small agriculturists not one of them depend-
ent on a squire or landlord or any other
autocrat, which is strong in its own defence,
which is capable of manufacturing every-
thing it requires, and which is free from the
spectre of want and the bony apparition of
hunger. The Federal Labor party has large,
vigorous national ideas, whereas ex-Prime Minis-
ter Deakin has large national dreams, and George
Reid has comic yes-no jests, and the Forrkst-
Irvine-Knox party has fat, dull, narrow, stupid
prejudices, and the State Labor party of N. S. W.
lias limited and purely pick-and-sliovel principles
which cause it to keep pottering away in a corner
to no earthly purpose. There is a splendid
opportunity in Australia for a party which
thinks in continents ; for the Australian people
have a whole continent to think in, which is a
privilege that no other nation enjoys, or—so far as
history relates—has ever enjoyed, or seems ever
likely to enjoy. And the Federal Labor party,
which is led by Prime Minister Fisher, appears to
come nearer to thinking and acting in continents
than any other which Australia has ever possessed.
Alfred Deakin also thinks in continents, but in
the matter of acting in continents he has been so
painfully deliberate and conscientious that the
continent has grown a trifle tiled.
MILITARISM AND NAVALISM AND
SUCH-LIKE MATTERS.
The Victorian section of the Labor party,
it was recently reported, proposes to hold
a conference on the subject of what it
calls “militarism.” A number of the Vic-
torian Labor men, it seems, object to “mili-
tarism,” and on that ground they object to
the resolution passed some months ago by the
Brisbane Labor Conference whereby compulsory
military training was made a plank of the Federal
Labor platform. The attitude of the Victorian
Laborists in this matter shows the disastrous influ-
ence of that awful person, Tom Mann, perhaps the
loudest-mouthed and most ignorant Conservative
that ever came from England to this afflicted
country. For Tom Mann, though he probably
doesn’t know it, is a Conservative of a
most depressing type. The term describes the
person who is buried in a groove or a rut
—who is incapable of receiving new ideas
or adapting himself to new conditions, and
in that respect Dickens’ famous Sir Leicester
Dedlock wasn’t more hopelessly Tory than T«
Mann. In England there are ancient and won-
derful Tory squires who, if they came to Aus-
tralia, would want to import the ancient British
game laws in all their glory, regardless of the
fact that the hare doesn't need to be pre-
served here, because there are millions of
the beast and his capacity for increase
is apparently unlimited. And in England,
also, there are dreadfuf.old Tory Tom Manns who,
because the British House of Commons is mostly
a House of rich men, and the British Upper
House is a House of hereditary landlords which
nothing but revolution can shift, can’t understand
that there is any remedy save revolution for the
Australian Parliament—an institution which, as
regards both Houses, is elected by adult suffrage,
and is based on no monetary or hereditary privi-
lege whatever. So Tom Mann, who is purely
Tory and English, brought to Australia all his
foolish old gags about “ militarism,” and certain
Foreign-trade papers, which are purely English
though published in Australia, imported the
same shrieks. In certain respects Tom Mann
and the Sydney Telegraph are the same identical
variety of Tory.
* * * *
In a case like this it is advisable to get away
from cant phrases and look the facts in the face.
In the first place “militarism ” is no more objec-
tionable than “ navalism.” The latter word isn’t
in common use, but there is no reason why it
shouldn’t be. “ Militarism ” means, in, a general
way, the process of making preparation for a
Homeric “scrap” on land; “ navalism ” means
preparing for the same thing at sea. Because
Britain is an island State, Britain maintains the
most stupendous navy on the globe, but it pro-
fesses to maintain a comparatively moderate army.
Russia, on the other hand, not being an island
State, maintains a considerable army and
not much of a navy. So on the principle
that orthodoxy is our ’doxy and that
heterodoxy is everybody else’s ’doxy, the British
community has coined the word “ militarism ” to
express the situation of Russia and such-
like countries. It doesn’t denounce “navalism,”
because navalism is its own disease. And the
Tom Manns and the other Tories, who bring
British ideas to Australia and insist on fitting
them on to Australia whether they tit or not, come
here and denounce “militarism” because it is de-
nounced by a certain class in England. They
don’t denounce “ navalism,” because that isn’t
denounced in England ; instead they urge us to
“rely on the splendid British fleet” for our
defence. Between the splendid British fleet and
the splendid Herman army they profess to see an
illimitable gulf.
* * * * *
Some years ago an English politician invented
the term “ bloated armaments” as a scoff and an
expression of reproach to heave at the defences
of Continental Europe. And the people who
bring to Australia ready-made English phrases
hold up the “ bloated armaments ” to us
as a horrible warning and a dreadful example.
Yet in reality the prize bloated armament of
Europe is that of Britain. Bull’s country spends
about £59,000,000 a year on its army and navy,
while even Germany spends less than £53,000,000.
And Bull’s empire, with it# voluntary enlistment
system, keeps up a military force of one kind and
another, amounting to about 800.000 or 900,000
men, while Germany, said to be the most awful
example of militarism in Europe, keeps about
600,000 men constantly under arms and withdrawn
from productive employment. Certainly, Ger-
many, at an emergency, can put about 4,000,000
trained soldiers into the field, while Britain can
only raise a quarter of that number ; but
Germany keeps fewer soldiers constantly in the
ranks and away from productive work than
Britain does, and spends less money on defence.
So the jeer about “militarism” which Britain
throws at its Continental rivals, of which Germany
is the worst sample, is hardly logical.
* * * *
Then there is the theory that compulsory mili-
tary training is “contrary to the British
tradition.” Even if this were so, which it isn’t,
nobody would advance such a theory save a hope-
less Conservative like Tom Mann, who holds that
everything which applies to the United Kingdom
must necessarily apply also to Australia and to
every other country. If it be assumed that two
soldiers to the square mile are an adequate
defence, then the United Kingdom, with 363
persons to the square mile, has only to find two
voluntary soldiers out of 363 persons, and there
are 361 persons left to pay the wages of these two.
That looks fairly easy, and as a matter of fact the
army which Britain, in its professed capacity as a
non-military nation, retains for home defence,
represents a good deal more than two soldiers
to the square mile. But in the Com-
monwealth the population is less than
persons to the square mile. We can’t quite live
up to the British idea of defence even if every
man is trained to military service, but the nearest
' approach we can make to it is to train every man ;
and if every man is trained he may as well be
trained compulsorily as voluntarily. It is quite
as important to live up to the British theory as to
the number of soldiers required to defend a given
territory as it is to live up to the British theory-
supposing there were such a theory, which there
isn’t—that military service should be voluntary
instead of compulsory. As a matter of fact, mili-
tary Service is compulsory in Britain as in practi-
cally every other country. The only difference
between Britain and Australia is that Britain,
having 363 persons to the square mile, thinks it so
unlikely that a levy en mass? will ever be neces-
sary that it takes the risk of not training the bulk
of its people. On the other hand, it is almost dead
certain that in Australia, with less than 1| persons
to the square mile, a levy en masse will be
necessary at the very beginning of an invasion.
Then the Australian must either go out wholly
untrained to be slaughtered almost without re-
sistance, or go out as a fairly trained soldier with
a good chance of winning the battle and also
saving his life. All Tom Mann’s silly, ready-
made, imported, cut-and-dried Tory remarks
about “ militarism ” won’t amount to anything
when the trouble comes to pass.
* .» * *
Compulsory military training is nothing more
nor less than compulsory education. Compulsory
training in grammar and geography, and com-
pulsory training in shooting and drill, are the
same privilege, or outrage, or whatever one may
please to call it. The compulsory acquisition
of a knowledge of shooting and drill won’t
make the Australian citizen a whit more
liable to be called out for active military
service than he is now and always has been,
but it will make him a good deal less likely to be
slaughtered with impunity when he is called out.
And compulsory training for the army is no more
an outrage on the liberty of the subject than is
compulsory taxation for the hire or support of a
mercenary army. Every country which proposes
to make any provision at all for its own defence
must choose between two alternatives. It can, as
one alternative, have a system whereby the people
are the army and the army is the people —whereby
Private Smith who delves underground in a
Broken Hill mine is as good as Private Howard
of a big mansion at Toorak ; and whereby Captain
Bill Jones, who won his rank by merit and then
passed into the reserves and went back to blast
rock down in the New Chum Railway shaft at
Bendigo, can liiore than hold his own with his
intellectual inferior, Lieutenant Plantagenet,
with a gorgeous motor car and a mansion at
Point Piper, Sydney. It can have that system
or it can have an army which is not the people,
but which is a separate military caste, wandering
about proudly with its sword and its uniform and
its feathers, and looking down with contempt on the
common civilian herd. Tom Mann, the English
Tory, and his deluded followers, who mouth the
old catch-words about “militarism,” are really
clamoring for the establishment of a separate
military caste —one that will be apart from the
people, and cheerfully ready to shoot at the
people when called upon.
* * » »
In this matter the one example that Australia
wants to avoid is that of Britain, and when it
imports from England dull-headed, hide-bound
Tories like Mann to recite the English catch-
words and cant phrases, Australia does a foolish
thing. Britain is the worst example of militarism
and of navalism (which is quite as bad) in Western
Europe. Let the case of Britain be compared even
with that of France —though the example of France
is so bad and objectionable that Australia doesn’t
propose to follow it, but prefers to adopt the much
more democratic policy of Switzerland. Britain
spends £59,000,000 a year on its army and navy ;
France lays out a little over £40,000,000. Britain
keeps some 800,000 or 900,000 soldiers under arms,
and consequently withdrawn from ordinary pro-
ductive occupations ; France keeps about 660,000
soldiers, including colonial and nigger troops,
constantly under arms. The great bulk of the
British forces are liable to service in any and
every part of the world, and can be used for all
kinds of invasion and aggression ; the great bulk
of the French army can only be required to leave
France on one condition—that an enemy has in-
vaded the territories of the republic, and has
been defeated, and must be followed in his re-
treat over his own frontier to prevent him rally-
ing. The British people have resolved—according
to laws made by a Lower House which partly
represents the people and an Upper House which
doesn’t represent the people at all —to adopt com-
pulsory taxation in order to support a proud
and separate military caste. The French people,
through the medium of a Lower House which
represents every citizen over 21, and an Upper
House which represents every citizen over 40,
have resolved that every man shall have a short
period of military training, so that the army shall
be the people, the whole people, and nothing but
the people. The Australian nation is assured by
British Tories—some of them nominally Austra-
lian, like the Sydney Telegraph, and some of
them conspicuously imported, like Tom Mann —
that the British system isn’t “militarism,” and
that the French system is. The fact that some
people believe this tale is a lamentable evidence
of the power which mere cant phrases can exer-
cise over the human mind, or alleged mind, or
bogus mind.
■* * • *
The Australian Labor party did a wise and
noble and wholly democratic act when it decided
to support the principle of universal and com-
pulsory education in the rudiments of the
military art —to endorse the idea that the
army should be the people, and the whole
people, and only the people. If the Victorian
section of the party proposes to kick against that
decision it will thereby only supply another
evidence that it is the most backward Labor party
to be found in the four older States of Australia.
It demonstrated its backwardness when it im-
ported as its mentor Tom Mann, the ignorant,
roaring, hide-bound Tory beer-seller from Eng-
land, who is as much a Conservative in his
senseless repetition of shibboleths which are
wholly unadapted to the conditions of Australia
as would be the English squire who sought to
bring to this country the game laws of the dear
old Ma community. Australia must work out its
own redemption, and the British phrases about
“ militarism ” are of no more use to us than the
British ideas about the iniquity of shooting
foxes. They don’t tit in with our conditions, and
so they have no sense or value hereabouts.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Smiting of Anti-Defence.
The wilting Anti-Defence crowd was smitten
severely and unexpectedly in its two most vital
spots last week. The crowd in question has fallen
back during the last month or so, with despera-
tion in its eye, on a couple of basic arguments in
support of its contention that Australia should
hire people from overseas to defend it, in place of
training its own citizens to undertake that urgent
job. The arguments on which the Anti-Defence-
ites now rest their case are : (1) that it con-
stitutes “ an act of disloyalty to the Throne” for
Australia to talk of building and manning its own
war vessels; (2) that the DuAKIN-ite scheme
is not only a dark plot of the “separatists”
bo “break the Imperial connection,” and
spill “obloquy and contempt upon the British
squadron in these waters,” but so insane a tactical
proposition to boot that it is regarded with exas-
perated contempt by every naval expert worthy
the name. Willy Kelly, M.P., has exhausted
himself denouncing the idiocy of “ an Australian
llotilla.” He has termed the propo'sed squadron
“a mosquito fleet,” and has then laughed the acid
“ Ha ! ha ! ” of scorn. In his view, an Australian
flotilla, if it ever eventuates, must be a futile, use-
less conglomeration of tenth-rate ships that will
be out of date before they leave the slips. These
worthless craft will, he prophesies, cost the Com-
monwealth a ruinous sum. Also, they will be
sunk by the first broadside of the first hostile and
cantankerous fleet that happens along ; and they
will be of no service to the Empire at
large, but only so many floating menaces.
B. Smith has approved his young friend’s theories
warmly, and Bill Wilks has been with Willy,
and the female conferencer who unearthed “ Mrs.
Smith ” has accorded him her moral support. At
the recent dinner to Melbourne’s Mayor, Vice-
Admiral Poore, Commander-in-Chief on the
Australian station, had a word or two to say
concerning Defence. In regard to the (alleged)
“insanity ” of an Australian flotilla, from the
tactical standpoint, he failed to agree with the
Willy Kelly school of thinkers. In fact, he
said, according to the Sydney Telegraph
(10/11/’08):
When one spoke of naval matters one was brought face
to face with the question of an Australian navy. ...
What he would like jo see ivas a flotilla manned entirely
by Australians, exercised all round the coast line in a.
squadron. ( Applause.) That flotilla would, in time of
war, be of most excellent assistance to the Imperial
forces.
And Governor-General Dudley, speaking to the
toast of “ The King ” at the same meal, went out
of his way to deal with the local Defence problem
on its loyalty side. He spoke with particular
authority, being not only the official representa-
tive in these parts, but the intimate personal
friend of the monarch at whose headgear and
furniture the Deakin proposal has been described
as levelling a lethal blow. Said he :
The prosperity and strength of Australia are as im-
portant to England as the connection with the Old
Country is necessary for you ; but, gentlemen, when I say
that the connection with the Old Country is necessary for
Australia, I do not mean to imply that you should always
rely exclusively on her protection, and do nothing for
yourselves. (Hear, hear.) You have lately been talking
"a good deal about Defence. Well, in my opinion, there
is no more important subject to which you could turn
your attention ; but I confess that it is not only for mere
local purposes, but also because I believe that by doing
so you will place yourselves in a position to offer more
effective aid to the Old Country in the great Imperial work
she is called upon to perform.
In fact, these speakers, who in their several ways
should be more or less fitted to judge, say to the Anti -
Defenceites that their howls about the nationalist
aspiration for an Australian navy being (1) a
separatist aspiration and (2) a tactically unwise
aspiration, are untruthful howls. Governor-General
Dudley, speaking as Ed. VII., warmly approves
the idea; Vice-Admiral Poore—a naval expert—
reckons it is one that he would like to see
materialise, if only for the sake of the Empire.
Such pronouncements constitute, as above-noted,
a severe and unlooked-for smite for Willy Kelly,
B. Smith and the female conferencers who sup-
port them. And the tragedy is that the party
smitten isn’t robust enough to stand much mis-
handling.
♦
The Tory Party’s Capital at Yassberra.
A feature of certain Tory papers last week was
their efforts to profess an off-hand conviction that,
despite the change in the Australian Ministry, the
Yassberra Federal capital is a fixed and absolutely
settled thing, and that the very idea of it being
upset isn’t worth alluding to. Yet it is quite
possible that the Yassberra infamy is now as dead
as Herod’s bones. Certainly the Parliament
carried a vote by a small majority in favor of
Yassberra, but that doesn’t necessarily signify any-
thing ; N.S.W. voted by 71,412 votes against
65,954 that the Australian Parliament should fix
the capital in any State it pleased, yet something
went wrong with the vote. So” the Fisher
Government has a precedent to go upon. The
ballot re sites has no meaning in itself; by an Act
passed four years ago the Australian capital is
located on Monaro, and as that Act hasn’t been
repealed the Australian capital is there to this
day. Dalgety has waited four years owing to the
machinations of the anti-Australian party, and
Yassberra may wait a great deal longer—in fact
it may wait for ever. The whole Yassberra fraud
is a direct challenge to Labor, and it is quite
possible that Labor will take up the challenge and
biff Wade with a whole-souled biff which will
cause that person, accustomed to the mild-
mannered Deakin, to yell for the police. The
policy of the anti-Australian party is to establish
a very small Federal territory lest the dreadful
Labor men should have elbow room in which to
try a splendid experiment at the national owner-
ship of land, and lest they should, by the success
of that experiment, put the Tory push to shame.
Also the anti-Australian party can’t bear the idea
that the Federal territory should be so large that
all the land values created by the expenditure of
the money of all Australia upon a new city will be
inside the Federal boundary, and will accrue
to the Commonwealth. That would tend to
boom the policy of public land-ownership and
to make it a huge success ; therefore it
is preferred by the Tory and anti-Austra-
lian party that the bulk of the land
values created by the establishment of a Federal
city (with all Australia’s money) should slop
over the narrow Federal border and be an-
nexed by the private landlord in N.S.W.
(Already the private landlord seems to be
grabbing these values by anticipation, for a
large estate between Yass and Canberra has been
cut up and put on the market.) The question of
water supply represents the same struggle be-
tween Toryism and Democracy. A Federal city
with its own water supply, and with rivers like the
Snowy, Mowamba, Crackenback and Eucumbene
to furnish almost unlimited power, might do
dreadful Labor deeds in the way of establishing
publicly-owned industries, or—what would be
almost as bad—in the way of establishing
privately-owned industries under conditions in
the way of hours, wages and sanitation that would
be a painful reflection upon the ways of
Private Enterprise elsewhere. Therefore the
Tory party believes strongly in a capital
where the water supply will be mostly
under State control, and where any dangerous
industrial experiments can be turned off at the
water meter. It believes also in a Federal ciipital
where any objectionable Labor experiments in the
way of industry can be restricted by the fact that
the only communication is by State-owned rail-
way through State territory, and where, at a
push, an alarming and unaccountable but incurable
scarcity of Johnson’s trucks may nip things in
the bud. Finally, there is, in the opinion of
Toryism, something too dreadful for words in the
idea of a large, prosperous, contented population
growing up on a big, prosperous Federal terri-
tory, living directly under the rule of a Parlia-
ment of which both Houses are chosen by adult
suffrage, learning—and spreading the knowledge
through Australia—that nominee or property-
elected Upper Houses are vicious anomalies, and
supporting large, prosperous, influential news-
papers that would scatter abroad the same ideas.
Barring two or three renegades, the Yassberra
fraud hasn’t a friend in Labor circles, therefore it
is quite possible that that place is now dead—
perfectly and wholly dead.
The Yassberra Mistake.
“Vedette,” who hangs out in the Yass district,
writes :
J. E. Weight said a lot of hard things about the selec-
tion of Yass-Canberra for the Federal capital (B. 22/10/’08),
but didn’t say enough. He sa.vs one can cross the
Murrumbidgee dryfoot in the ordinary drought season.
The experience is nothing uncommon, considering the
fact that at Mr. James Duffy’s Leamount Station the
boys and girls, myself among the number, often crossed the
same river in summer, not in drought season, without
staining our tennis shoes. (The tenuis court is on the
other side of the river.)
I pity the people who have to drink the water of the
Murrumbidgee in the summer season. Just at this time
the river swarms with the decomposing bodies of rabbits,
poisoned by phosphorus. The rabbits make for the
water when the poison begins to act, there to die and
bloat and be washed down stream. Do the people living
along the river drink the water? Not much! In
summer the rain water is most jealously guarded for
drinking purposes ; river water is only used for
washing. Another instance of its impurity : Last year
Cavan Roche, a station-owner, wrote in very strong-
terms to the Goodradigbee Shire Council (Yass), asking
it to investigate a case of pollution of the sti-eam. He
produced a bottle (which, the other day, was still on the
shelf of the shire office) containing a sample of the fluid.
This was tested by the shire authorities, and eight days
elapsed before the sediment—a dirty, black-looking sub-
stance—had settled in the bottom of the vessel. The
cause of this pollution still remains a mystery.
The Federal legislators who have still to finally con-
sider the Yass-Canberra selection have never smelt what
is known as “ the rabbit stink ” in the proposed area in
summer. I instinctively make a grab at my nose every
time I think of it. This stink is caused by the poisoned
rabbits, which are allowed to fester in the open country
in thousands. It is positively and absolutely the worst
that can be imagined—it can be cut with a knife. Pro-
bably the politicians will get enough of it when they are
debating on the Yass plain, if ever it is the Federal
capital—which, in my opinion seems both unlikely and
absurd.
The splendid water supply of the Snowy, which flows
by Dalgety, is beyond comparison. At the Yassberra,
despite what Mr. De Bukgh and others say, we, who
have lived there, know the supply is most inadequate.
For instance, Lake George is no longer a great inland
sea ; it is disappearing, if it isn’t already gone.
A lot is being printed in the anti-Australian Sydney-
daily papers on the subject of the great help the Barren
Jack lake will give. The following account, which is the
report of W. L. Vernon, Government Architect, and other
officers of the Department of Public Works on the Mah-
koolma site, gives the facts of the case (and it must be re-
membered that the other sites will be at least as close to
the weir as Mahkoolma): —
“The Committee recommended the site for the pur-
poses of a Federal capital, but pointed out, in regard to
the reservoir, that the water would be a diminishing, and
might be a vanishing quantity, when dry seasons required
its discharge for irrigation in the Riverina, thus leaving a
befouled and stricken valley exposed to the view of the
citizens, instead of a full and picturesque lake.”
The Yass-Canberra site will be bounded on one side by
the waters of Barren Jack at a point much above Mah-
koolma, and as the water will be very scarce right up
there at the far end of the weir, the same conditions apply
to it.
+
The Broad Australian Spirit.
One day last week the silly Australian Star
made a tine, large feature of this item :
IS PROVINCIALISM DEAD?
Mr. G. H. Reid says “No!”
A School Incident.
In conversation with Mr. G. 11. Reid, the leader of the
Federal Opposition, prior to his leaving for Melbourne, he
said that the spirit of provincialism was dying very hard
in the southern State. ‘
“I will quote an instance in point,” said Mr. Reid.
“ The day before the Cup a teacher at one of the Abbots-
ford schools, in announcing a holiday- for the great racing
event, remarked, “Now, mind you, this holiday is given
because Mr. Deakin is in power ; if Mr. Reid were Prime
Minister vou wouldn’t get it! ”
“I thought,” continued Mr. Reid, “that after the
adjustment of the tariff we would have heard the last of
provincialism in Victoria, but the instance I have quoted
shows that such is not the case. I’m friendly with many
of the Victorian Protectionists, but they are afraid to give
me support because I’ve so long espoused the cause of
Freetrade.”
There are several discrepancies about this narra-
tive. First of all, the schools nave nothing to do
with the Federal Government, or with Deakin, or
with lleid either. They are under the State rule
of Tommy Bent. This makes the yarn about a
teacher telling the pupils that their holiday was
due to DeakiN, and not to Reid, an absurdity.
Secondly, the holiday isn’t even given by Tommy
Bent, but by the local Board of Advice, which
makes the yarn look still more foolish. Third,
inquiry brings an assurance that the wholly im-
probable event never happened—in other words,
that it is one of the mischievous, monkeyish lies
that are got up in order to create or preserve that
unreasoning animosity between States which is
the stock-in-trade of a certain low grade of poli-
tician. It is a poor, mean business, but it all
helps to keep the low-grade politician’s head above
the mud.
McGowen’s Motion of Censure.
The censure motion of N.S.W. Labor leader
McGowen failed sorrowfullj', as all his censure
motions do. McGowen has a capacity, which
amounts to genius or suicide or something, for
bringing forward motions of censure only upon
subjects which make him dead sure of getting not
a single vote outside his own minority party. This
proceeding may be honest in a narrow sort of
way but it is an unprofitable sort of honesty,
Theoretically, the lead miner, working for poor
wages in a deadly atmosphere far below the
earth’s surface, or the rock-chopper, with sand-
stone in his lungs and premature death ahead
of him, may be justified in saying: “What
do the Federal capital, or the anti-borrow-
ing policy, or the repayment of the public
debt, or Wade’s anti-Australian doings matter
to me?” But such things matter to very
many people above ground who at present
don’t take a penn’orth of interest in mining or
rock-chopping. These people badly want a party
in State politics that will speak for them, and if
the rock-chopping party becomes the party that
speaks for them with conviction and enthusiasm,
they will begin to take an interest in rock-chopping
and in rock-choppers. In Federal politics the
Labor party, to which rock-choppers and suchlike
hard toiler's belong, is the anti-borrowing party
and the Large Australian party, and consequently
it has just climbed into office, with a fair chance
of staying there. Without straining any prin-
cinle worth preserving, the State Labor party
could also learn to be the party of honest
finance- the party of large Australian views;
the party which doesn’t believe in dragging
everything, including the Federal capital, to
the back doorstep of the rich Tory importers of
Sydney. It is only necessary to make the
rock-chopping industry and the mining industry
synonymous with honest finance and genuine
Australian patriotism, and outside support will
flow in. If the Trades Hall decided to be the
centre of the real Australian sentiment in N.S.W.,
it would very shortly have to enlarge its premises.
But McGowen and his disastrous second in com-
maud set themselves to deliberately scare off out-
side support. There is in N.S.W. a powerful
body, with large Australian ideas, and this body
finds that in Federal politics the Labor party is its
natural mouthpiece and representative. InState
politics, however, the Labor party will have
nothing to do with it. When the narrow-minded
Wade starts to preach the doctrine of big loans
and pure parochialism he has no more reliable,
not to say servile, followers than McGowen
and his calamitous and parish-minded lieu-
tenant. In thus doing the dirty work of
Wade, the Tory and parocliialist. they deprive
themselves of all extraneous aid ; and when
McGowkn rises to voice the grievances of the
Broken Hill miners or the Sydney rock-choppers,
the men who would have stood by him if he had
been a good Australian, a consistent opponent of
the parish-minded disease, and an advocate of
honest finance, stand aloof. They say that,
on the subjects which interest them, he is no
better than Wade, and therefore his grievances
don’t matter to them. He gets nothing at all
save the direct mining and rock-chopping vote
and the votes of allied industries ; and these can
no more command a majority as things stand
just now than can the Shakspeare Society or the
combination of collectors of rare postage stamps.
When the State Labor party was moved, a few
years ago, to put into its programme a clause which
faintly suggested an attempt at honest finance, the
thing was such a palpable hypocrisy that a leading
member of the party was allowed to repudiate and
scoff at the idea in the House. If he had scoffed
at trades unionism and the eight-hour system he
would have been expelled from the party ; but
though the clause dealing with comparatively
honest finance professed to be as much a part of
the Labor creed as trades unionism and the eight-
hour system, it transpired that it could be jeered
at with impunity by leading Laborists them-
selves. That ended for the time any chance of
securing the anti-borrowing and Large Australian
vote for the State Labor party ; and now every
time Labor is kicked and cuffed by Wade
it has its awful leaders to thank for
that unpleasant event. The State Labor
men can’t get the boom-and-borrow-and-burst
vote; Wade has that. They can’t get the
parish-minded, anti-Australian vote; Wade has
that. They can’t get the vote of the crowd which
lives politically by insulting the Commonwealth
of which Labor-man Fisher is now the head ;
Wade has that. They can’t get the votes of the
party which believes in dragging everything, in-
cluding the Australian capital, to the doorstep of
the rich Tory importer of Sydney, for Wade has
got THAT. And the insensate McGowen and
Holman deliberately throw away the support of
the honest Australian party which represents-the
anti-WADE feeling. They oppose or ignore the
Large Australian and honest finance policy of the
Federal Labor men ; they do, actively or pas-
sively, the dirty work of Wade and the Tories
and parochialists who support him when these
persons come in collision with the Common-
wealth ; and because of the feebleness and isola-
tion which this policy brings about the State
Government is strong, and is aide to kick
Griffith out of the House when he voices the
grievances of the Broken Hill miners, and is in a
position to abolish the Arbitration Act, and can
afford to treat Labor-leader McGowen as a mere
private member when he calls the Government’s
doings in question.
+.
The “S. M. Herald” States that Freetrade
Means Kuin.
This amazing truth was published in the allegedly
Freetrade Sydney Morning Herald (14/11/’08):
Singapore, like 'Hongkong, is P reetrade in characier.
This accounts for the glowing reports you hear from pas-
sengers, and such expressions as “ Oh, Singapore, delight-
ful place ! Why, do you know I had some lovely brass-
work from Benares and embroidery from Delhi, and not a
penny dutv ! ” SO MUCH FOK THIS DEAR OLD FREE-
TRADE. BUT IT IS RUINING THE PLACE. “Come
and trade’’seems to be Singapore’s invitation, and the
world accepts it with thanks, especially the Germans,
who love England so long as their “ made-in-Germany *•
articles can be landed duty free, while British goods are,
if anything, being supplanted by the Germans.
Not a word about “ the inalienable blessing of
unrestricted freedom of commerce.” Nary a
cheer for “sound economics.” No word of
“ abounding prosperity ” owing to the absence of
“ the curse of Protection.” Never a jeer at “the
futility and humbug of the tariffist cry against the
so-called dumping evil.” Singapore, oneof the few
remaining spots on this globe of ours that enjoys
what the Herald terms, in another part of the
article from which the above quotation is taken,
“ out and out Freetrade,” is being ruined—ruined,
by the Herald’s own admission, as the sole result
of a fiscal policy the Herald has been advocat-
ing tor half a century.
Joseph’s Bubble.
Premier Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, has de-
livered his policy statement with a view to the
coming elections, and there is decadence written
all over it. Ward suffers from Bent’s trouble —
the habit of getting hold of any section of the
community that looks like haying a strong block
vote, and offering it any foolish old concession,
regardless of future consequences, so long as that
block vote is secured in the present. The f armers,
always selfish and strongly united, have an absurd
idea that if they are allowed to import all manner
of things free"of duty they will save money.
Ward probably knows very well that they won’t
save money, and that any injury done to the
manufacturing population which buys thefarmer’s
produce will be to the farmer’s loss. But the
short-sighted farmer is clawing after what he
regards as immediate benefits, so Ward has spoken
largely about “placing everything the agriculturist
can reasonably ask on the free list.” Then
it seemed some time ago that cheap railway
fares and freights would buy votes, so inside eight
years these have been cut down at least one-half.
They have even been cut down to little more than
one-half the average British rates. The accounts,
of course, show a deficit; the lines are narrow
and rickety ; the carriages are old and ramshackle;
but the huge reductions help to buy votes, and
when the lines become really too awful the useful
loan will probably patch things up. The gaudy
paper surplus also helps to bring votes, so it is
kept up by neglecting to charge much ordinary
expenditure to revenue, and then paying
the omitted expenditure partly out of the
surplus and partly out of loans. It is
once more the case of the man with 40s. a week
who pays for his tobacco (Is,) out of ordinary
revenue, and has 395. surplus, and out of that
splendid surplus and some money raised at the
pawnshop pays for his board, lodging, clothes and
sundries. Insixyears, despite the magniticentpaper
credit balance Maoriland has borrowed nearly
£28,000,000, and of this about £10,000,000 has.
gone in unproductive works which should have
been charged to revenue. The scattering of the
£10,000,000 has also bought votes, the same as the
surpluses and the absurdly low railway rates and
the other things, but it is a dangerous process.
When Seddon did his great act of degeneration,
and became a boomster and a frantic borrower and
a mere time-server, Maoriland began blowing a
bubble. It has become a very large and shaky
bubble nowadays. Joseph Ward paints it care-
fully and shores it up anxiously at the weak
places, but there is a worried feeling all the same
that it isn’t quite the gorgeous bubble it used
to be.
The Kids are Fighting for the Homeland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The clouds of battle are heavy and thick,
And the kids are fighting for the homeland ;
Jim and Jack and Peter and Dick
(Oh, the kids are fighting for the homeland !)
Big Tom and Frank we cannot spare,
For the racecourse roars and they must be there,
And Pm at work, and their ma’s at prayer,
While the kids are fighting for the homeland !
On Sunday last little Jim turned seven.
(Oh, the kids are fighting for the homeland !)
Jack is nine, and Peter eleven.
(Oh, the kids are fighting for the homeland !)
We cheered them well as they marched away,
With their bugle-calls and their flags so gay,
But the test-match called, and we had to stay
While the kids went fighting for the homeland.
They’re rather young for powder and shot,
Our kids that are fighting for the homeland ;
But we’re bound to use the means we’ve got,
So our kids went fighting for the homeland ;
A conscript army we can’t abide,
But our fields are rich and our coasts are wide,
So the brave cadets are our hope and pride,
And the kids are dying for the homeland !
MAORILAND.
D.M.W.
A Song of Uncertainty.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
None seem so hazy upon the question of the Yass-
Oanberra area, out of which a site is to be chosen for the
Federal capital, as the Yass people themselves. Far from
telling you wherein it lies, they want it defined for them-
selves. Such questions have been asked concerning
Yass-Oanberra that the questioners have plunged them-
selves into an abyss of confusion. They have now mostly
given it up, and wait aclearand comprehensive definition
by someone in authority. — S. M. Herald, llllll'OS.
They that are there,
They that are fortunate,
Wonder and search for the
Federal capital,
Or the grand site
Upon which it will rise.
They that are blessed
Know not the back-yard,
The vacant allotment,
Upon which the choice
Of our wise legislators
Hath mightily fallen ;
So in their shirt-sleeves they argue
and smoke.
Smith the Inscrutable
Points with his pipestem
To where, at his back gate,
A mound of old jam tins—
The waste of his household —
Lies in the bright sunlight.
Smith says the capital
Will be set there.
Green the Pugnacious
Hath an opinion
That near his premises
Will rise the capital.
Will sit the Parliament;
Green has bright visions
How in the evenings
He on the National
Sill of the Parliament
Will lean and listen to
Grave Representatives
Making the laws.
Into the argument,
Snorting indignantly,
Brqwn the Impetuous
Comes with a rush ;
Says that his paddock is
What they’ve decided on,
Says chat'the Speaker can
Come and have tea with them,
And that his missus will
Give them a call when
The sitting is o’er.
(Brown the Hospitable
Looks round indignantly
Snorts and subsides.)
Brown the Hospitable,
Smith the Inscrutable,
Both of them earnestly
Argue with Green,
Showing conclusively
It is impossible.
Likewise improbable—
Almost ridiculous
For the great capital
To be placed anywhere
' But in their yards.
And the shades falling
The trio obliterate
All but the voices
That, reeking of ignorance,
Shout in a hidden
Triangular row.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
SALE & EXCHANGE LIBRARY for keeping up your
supply of Fresh Subjects. Join it and Save Money.
Send to us or please call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
The S. M. Herald on the Wretchedness of
Its Own Pet Capital.
As soon as the S. M. Herald thought that the
success of Yassberra at the ballot had fixed the
Australian capital, it started to say things like
this (leading article, 10/11/’08)
As a simple matter of fact, we do not think that the
possession of the eispital within her borders will represent
any appreciable material advantage to New South Wales
as a State, or, again, to Sydney as a city. In the far
future it may; but when that time comes the early dis-
putes about the capital will only be interesting as a
matter of history. The Federal capital will not, within
the lifetime of men now living, be a place whose trade is
worth the competition of States. Except that it will have
a certain national character, expressed in its design
and architecture, and possibly also in its “ atmosphere ”
and social life, it will for many years be only as a large
country town. If material gain had been the only con-
sideration, the capital would not have been worth the
fight that has been made for it. But more has been
involved than material advantage. In the first place,
there was a solemn contract to be kept, and in the selec-
IOI J ® a^ge t.v this State feltthatt.be contract, while,
perhaps, nominally kept, was in reality contemptuously
disregarded. The choice of Yass-Canberra redresses that
grievance.
These are interesting statements. The Bulletin
did its best to secure a capital with a big river, a
big port, and an almost unlimited supply of water
power, because it believed that these things would
make a great and splendid and prosperous city, one
that would exist for the great benefit of Australia
and be a credit to Australia. The Herald fought
against the Dalgety capital for all it was worth
and shouted enthusiastically for a capital in the
Canberra neighborhood. And when it thought
it had secured its Canberra capital it announced
(1) that the said capital would be no good to
N.B>. W.; (2) that it would be no good to Sydney;
(3) that a capital on the site it had shouted for so
furiously has no visible hope of being more than
a mere country town. And the idea of the
Canberra capital being of any special advantage
to Australia at large is so remote that the Herald
doesn’t even mention that aspect of the business.
One naturally asks then : Why did the Herald
agitate so terribly for this Federal capital which
is to be of no value to Australia, or N.S.W., or
Sydney ? The Herald says it did so because
“ there was a solemn contract to be kept.” But
the “solemn contract” merely arose because the
JN.S.W. Parliament broke faith with the sister
States, nullified the people’s acceptance of the
first Lederal Constitution, and demanded that the
capital should be located in N.S. W. According to
the Herald it would now seem that all this was
done in order to place the Federal capital where it
will be a mere country town, where it will be
of no advantage to Sydney or N.S.Wi, where it
will be of so little value to Australia that that
aspect of the case isn’t worth alluding to, and
where it will be a poor place, the trade of which
won’t be worth competing for. On that basis the
Herald, on its own evidence, is a curse and a
disgrace to its country. There has been
gutter journalism in Australia, and yellow
journalism, and malodorous dark-brown jour-
nalism, but the Herald, on its own re-
port, seems worse and lower than all of these.
The Herald cynically states that it has been
struggling all this time to get an Australian
capital that will be a place of no account, and as
it says that this kind of capital filjs the bargain
that the N.S.W. Government exacted from the
other States, it now appears that the aim and
purpose of the bargain was to make the Australian
capital a place of no account. And the Herald
strenuously upholds that bargain. The old paper
parades its craving to damage Australia openly
and unashamedly, and spreads its wickedness
naked before the eyes of the community.
♦
The Irrigation Swindle Over Again.
Apparently there is going to be a move amongst
the new body of Victorian landowners—the Closer
Settlers and Small Holding occupiers—to squeeze
the State and shove the burden on to the kid,
after the fashion so successfully carried out by the
swindling Rodney farmers and other irrigationists
of that State. Having dropped his Valuation and
Land Taxation Bills, Thomas Adolphus had to
skirmish up a land policy of some sort, and, so ‘
far, the chief item that has been allowed to escape
is the intention to hold over all payments due by
new settlers for the first three years. This may be
a right policy in certain circumstances, but there is
a suspicion that these payments may ultimately be
held over indefinitely. At any rate, a day after
Adolphus made this announcement he went to
Longwarry, in Gippsland. There he was met by •
several settlers, who spoke in his capacious and
bowl-like ear. They had, they said, agreed to pay
more for their land than it was worth, and thev
wanted Bent to reduce the price. And Thomas said
he would. There was no hint of any consideration
or investigation, or of a fresh valuation of the
selections by a Lands officer or by an independent
outsider. It was all beautifully simple—they
just asked Adolphus to let them break their con-
tract by paying the State less than they had
agreed, and possibly less than the land cost, and
Adolphus said, “ Yes, certainly ; with pleasure”
—just as Parliament said “Yes” when the Rod-
ney and other farmers asked it to let them break
their contract and pass the bill on to the rest of
the taxpayers. Quite possibly Bent didn’t mean
what he said when he assented to this piece of
repudiation ; quite possibly it is one of the pro-
mises he won’t keep ; but the fact that the re-
pudiation should have been proposed and accepted
is unpleasantly suggestive.
•» :
President J. B. Steel and the other enthusiastic
workers on the Sydney committee of the Unifica-
tion and Reconstruction Committee continue their
labors with gratifying results. From every part
of Australia —from Kimberley in the far north-
west to Tasmania at the other corner of the map
—signatures have come for the petition in favor of
unification ; and subscriptions for the campaign
fund have .arrived from over as wide an area.
Accounts presented to the end of October show
£4B ss. 3d. received, which has all been spent in
collecting signatures, distributing literature, hold-
ing meetings, etc. ; and not a penny of it has goije
to the officers of the association, who have done
a tremendous amount of work gratuitously and
are still eager to do more. Financial help sent to
J. B. Steel, 192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, will
be put to a good use.
*
On the subject'of seeds Victoria’s Tom Bent
might have been expected to know something;
yet even in his Pure Seeds Act there appears to
be a hole large enough to drop a million curses
through. The other day a Western District
farmer sent the Agricultural Department a sample
of rye grass seed, sold to him as “considered
pure.” This precious concoction contained a
sprinkling of rye seed, but a good deal more of
mellilotus, cress, dock, daisies, etc. ; in fact, the
seed was merely the production of a healthy weed-
paddock. The seedsmen, it then transpired, get
round the Pure Seeds Act by telling the purchaser
they are just then out of pure seed of the kind he
wants, hut that they have a fine assortment of
similar stuff ‘‘considered pure”; and if he trust-
ingly buys he presently finds, instead of the oats
or rye he expects, a vigorous crop of Cape weed or
common docks. Of course, the seedsman says he
can’t help it—he doesn’t guarantee the stuff, nor
did he sell it as pure seed. Still if he goes on
saying that sort of thing long enough it is pretty
clear what will happen—the Anti-Socialistic
farmer will raise his voice on high calling for the
establishment of State seed-shops. And it wouldn’t
be half a bad idea either, though it would be
pretty certain that Cocky would want to get the
stuff at something under cost price, and would
also howl bitterly for long credit.
, —♦
Premier Wade’s Contagious Diseases Bill seems
to have aroused in protest all the aggregate and
ignorant snuffledom of N.S.W. The disease
which Wade seeks to suppress causes, directly and
indirectly, probably half the insanity that pre-
vails. It is a curse to innocent posterity down to
the third generation. It produces, among those
who have not “sinned,” but whose parents have
“ sinned,” dwarfs, idiots, rickety patients, persons
of perverted instincts, persons with ulcers and
other skin troubles, and all manner of horrors.
Yet the Women’s Christian Temperance Unions
and similar bodies are pouring in petitions against
the Bill. These dreadful pietists want to preserve
the disease. Rather than that one sinner against
the code of conventional morality, which they
value so highly, should escape punishment they
would prefer that his children and his children’s
children should be rotten, diseased and accursed.
These petitions represent a horrible state of mind,
and an intelligent and clean-souled person would
rather go in for blank atheism than be a Christian
Temperance Unionist of that type. It is difficult
to imagine any fate that is too bad for the C.T.U.
persons who would cheerfully wreck posterity
by the dozen, just for the satisfaction of knowing
that one person who transgressed their code of
morality was punished.
;
One of the things that the Broken Hill workmen
and threaten to quarrel over is the
mens demand for the employment of unionists
only. The subject on both sides is given an im-
portance which it doesn’t deserve. Ifr is worth
recalling now that the system was in practice
before the disastrous four-months’ strike of 1892
a strike that broke down because so many mem-
bers of the unions were not unionists. That, in
fact, is just the weakness of this rule. It fills the
unions with members, but not with unionists;
and when the hour of trouble comes there is a
wholesale break-away. From the men’s point of
view there isn’t therefore as much in the
plan as there seems to be if you only look
at it in a hurry. On the other hand, there
is the advantage that arises from compelling
everybody to pay a trifle towards building up a
defence fund—or fighting fund, if you like—for
possible use when the agreement runs out. When
the system was actually tried before, that was an
advantage of a sort—-it enabled the men to hang
out in semi-starvation for four months instead of
being beaten in probably six weeks. So far as
the owners were concerned, there were positive
advantages about the system ; in fact, they got
rather more out of it than the men, for they were
relieved of the worry, loss and annoyance
of those small, sectional strikes and disputes
which are probably the worst feature of Aus-
tralian industrialism. The owners had to deal
with only one executive ; if a few men—truckers,
for instance—threatened to “pull out,” the
unions’ executive was simply informed of the fact,
and was invited to deal with its recalcitrant mem-
bers. “Employment of unionists only” isn’t
therefore either as good or as bad as it is being
made out to be; it isn’t as good to the workmen
or as bad to the other side, and it certainly isn’t
worth coming to blows over.
From the “ Old Soldier ”
The Australian army complains bitterly of the slowness
of promotion, and points to its grey-headed lieutenants.
As generally happens in such cases, the subaltern who
wears the shoe knows where it pinches, and blames the
field-officers and captains, especially the former, for not
getting out of the way and giving him a step. He com-
plains especially of the system under which his command-
ing-officer’s service can be extended beyond the age limit.
The same complaints have been made by the junior
officers of every seniority service since regular armies
first replaced feudal levies, and will probably con-
tinue as long as armies last. It had grown
to a positive scandal in the Artillery and En-
gineers of the British Army, both of which had
lieutenants with nearly 30 years’ service before the
Crimean War. Even without “extensions,” promotion
must be deadly slow in an Australian infantry regiment
of eight or 10 companies with an establishment of one
lieutenant-colonel, one major, eight or 10 captains, and
16 or 20 lieutenants. What chance has the junior lieu-
tenant, joining at the age of 20, to become major
before he is 50 by the regular course of peace
promotion ? The real trouble is that our system
has been faithfully copied from that of Britain’s army.
The chief use of that army is to garrison distant posses-
sions like India and S’Africa, not to defend the British
Islands from an invader. There are, no doubt, advan-
tages in the large proportion of commissioned officers
serving nominally with British regiments in remote coun-
tries ; but for ordinary defence purposes it is absurd to
have a battalion led by 28 or 30 gorgeous officers when 17
or 18 are enough for a French or German battalion of the
same strength. It would make a wonderful difference to
the rate of promotion, after the surplus was absorbed,
if the number of subalterns were halved. Such a
change, however, would involve the ;"jandonment
of the idea of slavishly copying the practices of the
British army in all details. That army is supposed to be
officered by young men of a moneyed class, who can afford
to accept much lower pay than their work is worth,
taking out the difference in social distinction. There is
a story of a British Minister, who, some 25 years ago,
called for a return showing the pay of French and Ger-
man regimental officers. He got it, but it was never seen
again, simply because it showed that French and German
commissioned pay is better than British, but officers are
fewer.
THE KINGSTON MEMOKIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :—
Previously acknowledged .. £108 8 5
J. Ourran 020
Win. Davis.. .. .. .. .. 0 2 6
F. V. R. Jackson 0 2 6
D. Dolan 0 10 6 "
T. Dunne 0 10 6
G- Milling 0 10 6
J. Lahaney.. .. .. .. .. 026
J. Killovan 0 5 0
J. Fitzpatrick 0 10 6
R. Scott 050
A. Morgan 040
E. Thomas .. .. .. .. .. 020
E. McVeigh 020
J. McVeigh 020
H. Hall 050
Women’s Branch, Unification League,
Perth, W.A 0 10 6
Martin Flynn 0 10 0
William Carter 0 10 0
£113 15 5
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “ The Taming- of the Shrew.”
Criterion “ The Lily of Killarney.”
Palace “ The Prince Chap.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Prince of Pilsen.”
Her Majesty’s “The Scarlet Pimpernel”
Theatre Royal “Fedora.”
Kino’s “ The Female Swindler.”
Bijou “ The Private Secretary.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Princes Court Wirth’s Circus (last nights).
Olympia West’s Pictures.
A Bulletin man wandered into the Exhi-
bition of N.S.W. Manufactures in the Prince
Alfred Exhibition Building (Sydney) on Monday
last, and, listening to the talk of the men who
were exhibiting their craft products, felt his blood
grow hot. The N.S.W. manufacturers are a
heart-breaking crowd, so many of them are partly
importer and the rest manufacturer. And so
many of them stand with one foot in the sea
and the other on Australian soil that there
is no nationality about them. Many of the
men who ought to have front shows in
that exhibition are not there, because, ye gods, it
might harm the importing side of their business.
The industries that are there, however, are those
which have fought a tight that is something to be
proud of. They belong to grim men, with lines
on their faces and a stoop in their shoulders, who
have waged a ceaseless war against dumping
competition and against the misrepresentation
and lies of the Sydney daily press. Take the
case of the N.S.W. Magic Soap Co. This concern
was started away back in the days of the Dibbs
tariff, and was making good progress when the
awful Reid happened along and broke down the
barriers that guarded it and its Australian work-
men from the wild-cat competition of the im-
porters. Year after year it struggled on, spending
every shilling it had over actual costs in improving
the plant, holding the fort till a National policy
should come over the horizon and bring a
better day. The National policy came at
last, and the struggling company rose like a
strong man refreshed and burst into splendid
activity. It turns out a multitude of soaps, some
of them medicinal ones which are winning their
way all through the eastern world in hospitals
and chemists’ shops. It improved its plant and
turned out beautiful milled soaps made absolutely
of Australian ingredients, and got up in wrappers
decorated with waratahs, Christmas bells, and
other Australian flowers. It went in for • the
manufacture of perfumes, and is making attar
of rose, ylang-vlang, eau-de-cologne, lavender
flowers, violet, and carnation, and many com-
posite perfumes, all from Australian ingredients.
It uses Australian-made olive oil, glycerine, lard,
tallow, and cocoanut oil. In another court is a
collection of beautiful brass bedsteads of the style
known as Italian, made every inch in Pyrmont,
and bearing the flat-wire mattresses which were
for years sold in Sydney as the “ best imported ”
while Belgian rubbish was palmed off on the un-
suspecting as “cheap colonial.” But the tide
has turned, and to-day the beautiful work of Pyr-
mont proudly proclaims the land of its origin.
Down the passage the Abbott filter, a local
invention which has stood every test, defiantly
hangs out the sign, “Australia Made Me.”
Cropley’s are making 1000 pairs of boots in full
view of the audience, and all of Australian leather,
and very beautiful they are. The ancient wheeze
that Australian leather “ smells ” should now be
dead as Julius Caesar. In the T Boot Co.’s
exhibit writer smelt and handled dainty kid con-
fections for the feet of those we love that were as
beautiful and as delicately tinted as any of the
masterpieces of Otto Herz and other foreign top-
notchers. But the place is a history. Go where
you will, and get into conversation with the
attendants, and they can all tell you stories of a
long, brave, up-hill fight that makes you proud to
be an Australian, and glad that the day has come
when the things made in Australia no Ibnger need
to hide the fact.
** * *
Sydney dotes on a fine voice when it can
hear such for little money. So the Philip
Newbury Monday Pops at the Town Hall con-
tinue to bring capital audiences to that music-
soaked pile. In last Monday’s programme was
stuck an extra and very fresh plum, the song
‘‘ Ombra miafu” of a Tasmanian girl, Miss Alicia
Haywood. She owns a most promising contralto,
of sweet quality.
** * *
“The Prince Chap,” which has come to
reside for a brief season at Sydney Palace, is a
drama that leans rather heavily on the stage in-
fant’s shoulder, but as the shoulder is reliable,
there are no bad tumbles into bathos. Coming
shows paste their posters before, and The Bulle-
tin felt some misgivings when it saw by the
hoardings that the Chap was in the habit of
gazing reverently at children and publicly bless-
ing them. However, the play, the Chap and. the
children prove to be a good distance above
the usual level of the sentimental drama,
and—as presented by H. R. Roberts and co.—■
it is an entertainment to which the weariest
cynic may repair without dread. The plot
of “The Chap” has no especial ingenuity save
in one particular. It utilises two little girls and
one young lady to portray the single character of
Claudia and to show the progress of one feminine
from pinnies and dolls to back hair and matri-
mony. The growing up of Claudia is the main
theme of the story, and the fact that there is a
new Claudia every time the curtain rises gives
each act a separate interest of its own.
William Peyton (the Prince Chap), is dis-
covered in Act I. as the usual struggler
against fate and bailiffs. However, though he
is at the door of the Insolvency Court, he
keeps a deferential man-servant to fling his coat
to when he bursts into his sculptor’s studio in a
state of exhilaration and impecuniosity. The
man-servant presumably represents one of the
habits acquired by Peyton in a former and more
solvent existence. YVilliam entertains dreams
of wedding a distant Alice in the golden days to
be, when the public shall have signified its return
to sanity by buying his statues. In the mean-
time, he dwells and models in a cheap lodging-
house through which rages a dreadfully dirty
child-slavey, with a coal-scuttle and a hot
brick. His co-lodgers are Ballington, Yadder
and Fritz (labelled “artists” on the pro-
gramme), and the Earl of Henningford—-also an
artist, but not recognised as such by the pro-
gramme. Shortly after Peyton’s entrance, a
former model totters into his room in a dying con-
dition. She appeals to him with her second last
breath to look after her baby girl. The natural
result is that Act 11. finds Peyton acting the part
f>f a father towards the infant with the skill of a
seasoned widower or a constant attendant at
mothers’ lectures. He tells her his own un-
finished love story as a fairy tale, disguising
his identity under the usual fairy-tale title
of Prince. His absent betrothed figures as
Princess Alice, and when Alice arrives
shortly afterwards in a floppy white hat, which
has suspicion written on every feather, she
is as unreasonable as any she-monarch of fact or
fiction. She refuses to believe the passionate affi-
davits of Peyton that he is not Claudia’s father,
and flounces indignantly out of the apartment to
be abstracted in holy matrimony by a suitor who
has lots of money. An interval and ten years
elapse, and Claudia goes on growing up.
♦ * 1C *
In Act 111. the ascending curtain discloses
a drawing-room and Peyton’s old artist mates
arranging flowers in honor of Claudia’s eighteenth
birthday. During the interval, Time has powdered
their temples artistically with flour, and Prosperity
has driven them pitilessly into evening dress and
the boiled shirt that stifles. Claudia 111. is the
golden-haired, muslin-frocked idol of them all, but
the Earl, who is no artist, is supposed to be the
lucky man. The act is chiefly, occupied by
Claudia’s gentle refusal of his coronet and his bad
pictures, and the readjustment of Peyton from
his out-of-date position of guardian to that of
accepted lover. The brief re-appearance of Prin-
cess Alice as a widow in a flopping black hat, and
her hurried exit when she finds that the race is to
the young, round off the idyll and leave nothing
more to. be said. Claudia puts her arms round
Peyton’s neck and her head on his shoulder, and
the curtain falls with a discreet rustle like that
made by the skirts of a retiring dowager. H. R.
Roberts, as Peyton, acts briskly throughout, and
manages the children’s scenes with excellent
judgment. A. E. Greenaway portrays the Earl
of Henningford as an agreeable, tactful noble-
man with a single eyeglass; and Fred Francis,
Stuart Clyde, and Charles Stanford romp
in the joyous, care-free fashion stage artists
have always affected since the days of
“Trilby.” Frank Lamb, as Runion, the man-
servant, holds rigidly by the conventions set by
previous actors for such rdles, but adds to his
lines a. flavoring of quiet humor. Justinia
Wynne, as Claudia 111., appears only in the third
act, but she makes good in the limited time at her
disposal, and leaves' the audience with the im-
pression that Peyton is doing a wise thing. The
two diminutives of the cast, Vera Huggett and
Beryl Yates, are childlike and winsome as
Claudia I. and Claudia 11. Florence Redfern, as
the lady who refuses to remain alive, dies in a
grimly realistic way ; Vera Remee makes the
most of the thankless part of Alice Travers ; and
Mary Keogh, as Phoebe Puckers, the grimy
serving-maid, rattles a coalscuttle and falls down-
stairs in a manner that leaves nothing to be
desired.
* * -&
After eight weeks in Sydrley the Widow
at Her Majesty’s is still Merry, ajtid the box office
must be a soured institution if it isn’t Merrier
still. As far as one can see, the season will run
until the departed Carrie Moore has had time to
kill a lion or two, whereupon J.C.W. will no
doubt re-engage her on condition that she wears
the skin of the largest beast as a cloak in the
second act. The public will then roll up with
renewed energy, and Bantock will cast his 17st.
at Carrie’s feet with more determination than ever.
Music and “book” are, of course, all very well in
their way in connection with modern comic
opera ; but for a great popular success the mana-
ger must hitch on a lion or two and a sensational
breaeh-of-promise suit.
** * *
“Les Cloches de Corneville,” which the
National Opera Co. revived, after long years, at
Sydney Criterion last week, is one of the rare
works that age does not stale. Its haunting melo-
dies and charming concerted numbers put it in a
class by itself. The “Belle” variety of comic
opera is a noisy, rather vulgar young musical
woman (unattached); the “ Cloches ” sort, rightly
interpreted, is a cheerily refined matron, none the
less fascinating in that she is palpably getting on
in years. Which serves to emphasise the main
blot in the present production. The blot in ques-
tion is to be identified in the desperate efforts of
G. 11. Snazelle (the Bailie) and Alfred Stevens
(Gobo) to tickle the farce-sense of the groundlings.
Both these players put themselves, by their antics,
hopelessly out of any but a Christmas panto-
mime picture. A French law-dispenser of thebe-
ginning of the eighteenth century would not have
exploited such gags as “’Ow many runs is that ?”
“ You’re very ’ot, ole man,” and so forth. There
would be no analogy between the accent of such a
one and that of a local immigrant newly-arrived
from London E. No reason is apparent why
Gobo should be represented as part contortionist,
part polite lunatic. The fun of Snazelle and
Stevens requires curbing. Their riposte in Act I.
could do with bisection ; and the will business in
Act 11. is sadder than a funeral on Friday,
June 13.
* * * m
For the rest, the company does notably
well. It looks as though it enjoys “ Les Cloches,”
whereas “ Maritana ” rendered it self-conscious
and a trifle bored. Rosina Buckmann is a sweet
little Germaine. The part is perfectly suited
to her pure high soprano voice. Stella
Gastelle makes her first appearance in Sydney
as Serpolette. She is a mezzo-soprano with an
exquisitely-trained organ. The keynote of her
acting is a vivacity that trenches betimes on
frenzy. Her method is curiously effective in the
“Just look at that—-Just look at this” number.
Wilson Pembroke stirs him from the lethargy that
marked his “ Maritana ” performance, and makes
Henri a gay and attractive lover. Edward Wynn
sings and acts pleasingly as Grenieheux, and the
chorus is excellent.
** * *
“ The Girl of the Golden West ” gripsacks
her shooting-irons and ammunition and takes,
together with her “boys” and the latter’s small
arms, to the outward trail after Friday night next.
She will be replaced at Sydney Royal by the Bard.
“The Taming of the Shrew ” is the particular
manifestation of the Bard’s genius that has been
chosen to eject The Girl. Margaret Anglin plays
Katharine, and she will show herself, one doubts
not, as lifelike a shrew as any State Premier, and
an infinitely more alluring one.
* *
Ruth and Naomi, in the persons of Misses
Gertie Hogan and Josie Miles, and Boaz and the
First Reaper, represented by Messrs. H. Neil and
R. L. Nield, will take the solos in the first Sydney


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
The OLDEST MUTUAL
Lowest Bates Charged.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. O. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
production of “Ruth,”Cowen’s finest work. The
lady from Moab will happen at the Town Hall
next Wednesday night.
** * *
Mr. Howard Carr’s “Black Opal” com-
position hung as chief jewel upon the forehead of
the last of the season’s concerts of the Sydney
Symphony Society on the Thursday which is not
this Thursday, but the one before last Friday.
His theme was huge, magnificent. It dealt with
the love of a godlike youth for the virgin conti-
nent Australia. He wanted her for his very own.
and not on a platonic basis. When she, in effect,
said she would be a sister to him. he smote
with his passion as with a waddy. The present
flatness of the country is largely owing to that
smite. His demand was so audacious and superb
that Fate kept pulling at his coat tails—that is, at
the kangaroo tails of the hide that he wore qs a
loin cloth—saying “ Aspire not thou.” But he
only aspired the more,,, and—especially as no
rivals are mentioned —he won, and he
and Australia went into cave-keeping to-
gether. The pair were deliriously happy,
and when the man died—of senile decay, doubt-
less—Australia transformed, his daring soul into
a black opal and wore it over her heart. There is
plenty of color and rush in Mr. Carr’s melodious
experiment. He makes Nature, in active mood,
charge like bisons across grassy plains, and shows
you white, glittering, silent landscapes over
which he rolls his drums until they dash despair-
ingly down precipices into the gulf of Time. (That
sentence is meant to be soulful and intense.)
A big audience greeted “The Black Opal,” ex-
plosively vowing that the jewel had plenty of fire
in it, and that it was well polished.
** # #
Sydney Tivoli management has subtracted
Irving Sayles and Fanny Powers from last week’s
bill, and added Guest and Newlyn ; but, as G.
and W. are only arriving as this paper goes to
press, judgment is reserved. Hodgson and
Lowther and the Four Mascottes are due
on Noveipber 21, and, on the same date,
Tom Dawson and Gertie Johns will make
more er less triumphal reappearances. The
unaltered portion of the show consists of the
Three McGregors, J. W. Rickaby, Frank and Jen
Latona, and Duncah’s collies. The rites of the
first part are still being performed with great
solemnity and exactness by the lady’s choir.
** * *
F. H. Pollock, who died in Adelaide last
week, had a pleasant nature, a retiring disposi-
tion, and a pretty taste in diamonds. He knew
more about theatre-managing in Australia than
any other man around these parts. Some time
ago he settled down contentedly to run the Ade-
laide Royal bars, and for the last 10 years, since
Wybert Reeve retired, he ran the theatre itself—
and local playgoers have never been better catered
for. He lived actually in the playhouse, and may
be said to have died to the sound of the “ Taming
of the Shrew ” music. Pollock’s last appearance
as an actor was when he played the Judge in
“Pickwick” at Wybert Reeve’s farewell. He
did good work as captain of the old soldiers’
Commissionaire Corps that Reeve started,
and an escort of the grateful veterans followed
him to the grave.
** * *
Adelaide Royal is going very strong, in
spite of the lamented death of lessee Pollock
(whose widow and nephew will keep the business
on). The little city claims that it is just the place
to appreciate really, good acting, and it has kept
the Anglin fortnight crowded. “The Shrew”
was played by the co. in a spirit not so much
farcical as human and intensely modern, and the
public estimation of William of Avon as a prac-
ticalplaywrighthasgoneup. Kolker, tothewriter’s
possibly excited fancy, recalls Wilson Barrett
(when younger and at his best) and Cecil Ward
at various moments. Titheradgeand the rest scored
heavily in two farewell evenings of “ The Truth.”
Now, without any interval, the house is again
being packed by “Miss Hook of Holland,” with
a whole crowd of new favorites. Also an old
favorite, Ada Crossley, is at the Town Hall.
Balloons continue to shoot up out of the Jubilee
Oval and fall somewhere, according to the wind,
to the great and gratuitous delight of the whole
city. But unhappily the Arabs have gone from the
Tivoli. They provided a sensational turn, unex-
pectedly flecked with humor.
** * *
Of all the stories of intrigue that Victorien
Sardou devised for the French stage, “Fedora”
is the least easily appreciated at its full value by
an audience that is looking for cheap melodramma.
The plot is a work of imagination more subtle
than “La Tosca,” for instance. The closest
attention to the wordy narrative is essential to
an understanding of its tragic interest. Obviously
the weakness of “Fedora” as a popular enter-
tainment is in the fact that it mystifies people for
a time by misleading them, rather than by merely
concealing the truth. The play improves on
acquaintance. One must know the motive for
Loris Ipanoff’s murder of Count Vladimir in
order to realise the dramatic significance of
Fedora’s risky scheme of revenge, and must
be prepared for the happenings of the third
and fourth acts before one can sympathise with
the irrelevance of the comedy relief in the
second act. Countess Olga and her grotesque
Boleslas are as foreign to the situation as two
splashes of pink paint on a funeral pall. But they
serve to divert the public’s mental eye from
depressing subjects. Seeing that Sardou threw
them into the play to frivol for a few minutes, it
is permissible for Gaston Mervale to introduce a
“Capriccio Concerto,’’for piano and orchestra, into
the same scene. Mervale is a pretty pianist, an d
the “ Capriccio,” composed by the director of the
orchestra, is quite the right thing in the right
place. True, a solo on the concertina would pro-
bably be even more joyfully applauded in that
place—the place being Melbourne Royal, where
the intellectual quality of the audiences seems to
be deteriorating of late. The performance of
“Fedora,” last Saturday night, was most
admirable in some respects and satisfactory in
others, whereas the dull apathy of the majority
of the audience seemed to express a distaste
for anything better than “The Midnight Wed-
ding ” or “ The Ghoul at the Skylight.” Sardou’s.
clever tragedy was caviare to the general. They
ate it under silent protest, sorry that it wasn’t
tripe and sausages. And when Miss Madge
Mclntosh had given them an impressive death-
scene, a pathetic ending to a powerful interpreta-
tion of the name part, they went away unmoved
—except in their legs. Performances not half so
good as this have been encouraged by five times
as much applause in the same theatre!
***-*■
The full strength of Miss Mclntosh’s
ability is not evident in the first act. Her grip of
the character slackens occasionally. She seems
to let her thoughts stray from the fact that her
wounded lover Vladimir is lying in the next room
not yet dead, whilst she is trying to arrive at the
identity of his supposed murderer. Once in a
way she shows the ill-effects of her intimate
acquaintance with the manners and customs of
crude melodrama. But she shakes off those
effects as the play proceeds. She warms to the
complex passions of Fedora, and gives herself up
to despair with whole-hearted abandonment.
Nothing in histrionic art could be more convincing
than Fedora’s decease. The outward physical signs
of an inward spiritual departure are not painfully
obtruded. It is so real that the subsequent ap-
pearance of Miss Mclntosh in the flesh doesn’t
look like a resurrection of the Slav woman.
Fedora is still dead, but the corpse has been
removed.
**■*■*■
Harcourfc Beatty is equal to some of the
responsibilities of the Loris Ipanoff character,
though his defective voice-production is in this
case a great disadvantage to him. Fedora is a
bundle of nerves, and one naturally assumes that
the throaty, strained tones of Beatty would worry
her. Otherwise he is a mostly pleasing suggestion
of Ipanoff ; also forcible in places. Where he con-
spicuously fails is in his response to Fedora’s plead-
ings on the question of his leaving her boudoir.
If he were to take off his overcoat and fling it into
space he might seem more bent on improving the
opportunity. The overcoat is Ipanoff’s symbol of
rigid respectability at a crisis of temptation, and
he should shed it with enthusiasm. Gaston Mer-
vale, who would have been a weighty and pictur-
esque chief of police, is an easy, affable (and
musical) Comte de Siriex, whilst Tom Cannam
covers his passion for low comedy with a Russian
scowl and a police-official manner. That is to
say, he partly conceals it sometimes, when his
gestures are able to resist the force of habit.
Miss Winifred Gunn is weak but winsome as
Countess Olga. Miss Norah Delaney scores a
point as the boy Dmitri. A tall man-servant in
livery suits his accents to his words, but a hall-
porter (who is possibly the same tall servant .in
'another rig) misses the effect of a pause ere he
utters the name of “Ipanoff !” for which every-
body is anxiously waiting. Neatly staged and
well acted, “Fedora” ought to attract people of
the sort who were mostly not there on the first
night.
* * #- *
The Williamsonian shows at Her Majesty’s
and Melbourne Princess’s respectively are nearing
their fourth week without showing signs of ex-
haustion. The connecting link between them is a
simple little poem which Julius Knight is said to
have composed in his sleep, or when he was tying
his cravat —a poem of four lines concerning “The
Scarlet Pimpernel,” and so intensely simple that
even the Prince Regent and the beauteous heroine
of the drama can understand the alleged drollery
of it. Somehow “The Scarlet. Pimpernel ” seems
drawn to “ The Prince of Pilsen ” by that piece
of cast-iron literature. It must have been com-
posed by the author of the song the Cincinnati
brewer sings in the musical comedy. Having
fallen a victim to this distempered fancy, The
Bulletin is now suffering from a notion that the
Pimpernel Prince at Her Majesty’s was the twin
baby of the Pilsen Prince at the Princess’s, and
the nurse mixed them up in their cradle.
CHA S. LODER ,
the Bogus Prince
(“The Prince of
Pilsen”).
FRED LESLIE
yets a laugh in
“ The Prince of
Pilsen .”
The matinee performance of “ The Liars,”
in aid of the Foundlings’ Hospital, will come to
pass at the Princess’s on Saturday.
** * *
Something is to happen at Melbourne
Bijou on Saturday—something different from the
gruesome, goggle-eyed bellowdrama that thrilled
the missing multitude a week ago. Frank Thorn-
ton is to reproduce himself as our dear familiar
friend, the Rev. Mr. Spalding, a lean and gentle
shepherd who trains for immortality on a diet of
Bath bun and milk, and who suffers many afflic-
tions—including influenza. Once again he will be
rudely addressed hv Uncle Cattermole. and sat
upon by the hand of Fate, so to speak. The advt.
states that Frank Thornton has played “The
Private Secretary ” more than 1500 times. Every
time has been a reason why our reverend brothah
should repeat the blessed circumstance when he
comes to Melbourne. Now he is about to come,
and if he is dis-covahed at the Bijou he will be
found.
*# * *
The insipid history of Lu Valroy, “The
Female Swindler,” was repeated at Melbourne
King’s last Saturday night, and was signalised
by the wondrousness of the lady’s wearing apparel.
For every appearance she has some fresh burst of
raiment —in fact, she is a crash of raiment all the
way through. Apart from her tempest of frocks,
however, Lu’s nefariousness isn’t particularly
obvious. All she does is to assist in a murder and
safe robbery, somewhat in the character of a
mildly apologetic spectator. Often she has re
lapses into blithering goody-goodiness, and drivels
of her farver and muvver with the puerility
characteristic of repentant stage Magdalens.
Altogether, she might just as well have been a
secretary to a ’ome mission as a reputedly common
criminal, and been just as convincing. It is as a
shandv-gaff, variety female —partly sinful, but
mostly humbug—that Miss Duggan swims on
in sundry insurrections of color. She gives
the character a rather loud touch, so that
the final affection between her and Detective
George Cross doesn’t cause a shock. George
himself plays the criminal investigator in a valorous
and perfectly gentlemanly way, with a spotless
soul, a face of chalk, and boots of haunting loveli-
ness. Laurence Dunbar, as a bogus Army cap-
tain, glides through the Decalogue in fashionably
cut pants, and schemes with a Cockney Hebrew
who is about ten parts faked nose and one part
Ned Duggan. Bert Bailey—the darling of the
gods—is meek, quiet, inconspicuous and un-
obtrusive, like a street riot or a dog fight, and the
staging of the drama is calculated to assist* its
financial interests for that uncertain period known
as a short season only.
** * *
The Circus, as was mentioned in last Bul-
letin, is leaving Prince’s Court this week. The
matinee and the evening will be its last Saturday,
after which the whole tent-full of tricks, together'
with the menagerie that keeps guard around the
tent, will proceed to Adelaide. At the Olympia
building, next door to the Circus, the weekly
change of West’s Pictures is received with accla-
mations, as usual, and at the neighboring Glaci-
arium the Welsh Male Choir is to test the possi-
bilities of that cool retreat for promenade concert
purposes. The Men of Harlech will deliver four
farewell sings in Melbourne, within the Glaci-
arium precincts, beginning on Saturday.
** # *
At the Town Hall of Bentopolis a
positively actual last farewell recital of Mark
Hambourg is due to-night (Thursday). On Satur-
day a Miss Oxley Manners is to make one con-
secutive appearance as a “ brilliant new soprano,”
and the voice of rumor asserts that the lady’s
appearance will belie her remarkable name, and
that the stolidity of the animal therein hinted at
is not in her.
** * *
Melbourne Opera House at the present
moment is waiting dejectedly for new people to
turn up. These fits of depression are usually
limited to a fortnight and succeeded by a burst of
exceptional excitement. This is the second week
of dulness in the house of Rickards, therefore a
lively turn-up will be looked for on Saturday.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Rasper” : Mrs. Brown-Potter, according to a London
correspondent of your Melbourne Chatterer, has been
playing the name part in “Lady Frederick” with a pro-
vincial touring company. The report speaks rather
favorably of Mrs. I!. -P.’s attempt to imitate Miss Ethel
Irving's fine performance. She was otherwise engaged
when I saw her in London a few months ago. She was
appearing at the Coliseum (which vast and costly show
place had been recently re-opened with a music-hall pro-
gramme) in a 30-minutes’condensation of “The School
for Scandal.” The pathos of it! The sketch was entitled
“ Ladv Teazle,” and she presented the heroine as a romp-
ing “ serio-chronic ” young person of uncertain age. I
thought of her in her bygone Bellewian da.ys, and won-
dered what the audience could be thinking of her now.
There were five other characters—Sir Peter Teazle,
the brothers Surface, and two servants—impersonated
by ham-fat actors who merely ministered to the
star lady’s extravagant skittishness. She was evidently
full of desire to make the turn bright and lively, and at
times she was about the only person in that beautiful
building who affected merriment. The trouble ended
with the screen scene. A small percentage of the audi-
ence applauded. Mrs. Potter gave herself an enthusi-
astic call before the curtain, and then came a 10 minutes’
interval for sad reflection. It seemed to me that only
the ladv’s name had saved her travesty of a famous
comedy from ridicule. In “ Lady Frederick ” she has an
original story and a striking character to deal with, but I
don’t think she can be a very satisfactory copy of the
original. Miss Ethel Irving has made a reputation in the
part. She was a musical-comedy actress of no importance
previous to her discovery of herself as Lady Frederick at
the little Garrick Theatre. Her success was so unex-
pected that London was disposed to doubt it at first, and
her warmest admirers were strangers like myself who had
never heard her name mentioned in connection with
other work.
“Blue Peter” complains (justly or otherwise): In
Meynell and Gunn’s production of “Fedora” it was
rather a shock to find a princess’s writing-table a little,
long-legged affair, furnished with a little, cheap yellow
clock and inkstand, a candle with a painted tin snuffer,
and a water-bottle and glass, the same as one sometimes
finds in a railway waiting-room ; and when the beautiful
princess closed an envelope bv licking-her patrician finger
and rubbing it on the gum, even the sensibilities of the
“ bob rush” were outraged. Later on, Fedora took poison
in one of her afternoon tea cups, and dashed it on the
floor. It bounced heavily five times, and rolled into the
footlights uninjured. It was evidently the kind one gets
tea in at Flemington. The scenery was very good in two
acts, but the Countess Olga’s reception-room had a low
ceiling, a glaring white dado, and walls of screaming pink
that drowned most of the dialogue. The furnishings
consisted of time-payment-looking chairs, a marble clock
(the kind that father wins in a bowling match), and
palms, of course. What touching faith stage-furnishers
have in palms ! The diplomatic circle of Paris was repre-
sented by damsels in ankle-length dresses and their hair
down, their backs. Of course, one cannot expect a blaze
of glory for 35.; but a few trifles in nickel-plate, to look
like silver, and some hairpins for the walking ladies would
be an improvement.
“Mulwa”: Have you ever noticed the ugly uncom-
fortable thrill which runs through an audience when a
true picture of poverty is shown on the stage. I don’t
mean when the wailing- heroine of melodrama totters into
a room in a London slum in cr6pe-de-chine trimmed with
Honiton, nor when the ragged loafer lays him down to
rest on a seat on the Embankment in order to detach the
missing will from the villain’s pocket, but when the savage
reality is laid bare as in “Diana of Dobson’s” or in
“The Prince Chap.” Little Miss Jones, who works 10
hours a day in a milliner’s shop for “ experience ” and her
tram money, and narrow-chested Mr. Smith, who is no
better off this year than he was last, though he has spent
nearly half the time in between clerking in a warehouse —
these don’t care to consider their prototypes in the glare
of the footlights, for then their feeble little imaginations
begin to work, and they see themselves as they
really are —not, as they suppose in the daytime,
respectable members of society, but ordinary sorts of
fools who haven’t enough brains to understand that
other people are making large profits by their labors
while they are left with scarcely enough to maintain their
beloved, threadbare, shiny-green respectability. Therefore
the sight of a wretched woman dying from hunger and cold
in a hard-up sculptor’s studio sends a chill to their hearts.
So the poor hypocrites flock to the plays where they may
see Prince Danilo and the widow flinging round the
money others have earned, or lavish their pity on the
poor fellow who can’t spend £250,000 in a year, and think
how much better they could have done it themselves.
“Pereival Pecksniff”: It is up to someone to give a
parsley wreath to Howard Carr, the chap who just now
waves a conductor’s stick at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
Lured by the bright eyes of a warm, pink hundred-
weight of girl, I paid 45., and followed her into the Town
Hall to hear the Symphony Orchestra. There was a fair
programme. EmilGreder shouted and cooed some Wag-
ner superbly ; and beside a solid hour of Schumann, there
was a chop off Brahms and a steak off Beethoven upon
which the famishing souls of musical experts might feed.
Also, there was the virtuous deed of the Carr boy yclept
“ The Black Opal.” It alleges that the gloomy jewel is an
emblem of “ the soul of the first man who loved Australia
truly.” The allegory is appealing ; the music is just It.
This imported musicker has managed to get a primeval-
seeming surge of passion that is as Australian as anything
could be when it has to be expressed in that essentially
German medium —music. He strikes massive chords,
sinister as a South Coast cliff in a winter dawn, and
rouses soaring andantes that remind one of magpies
rising out of golden wattle branches. Further he achieves
a love climax that is like the epitomised embrace of all
the enamored girls in the continent. Of course, “The
Opal ” has its flaws. But lam content to ignore them for
the sake of the fire in the first bit of big music that has
had any real local color, or even pretended to it.
Nellie Stewart’s mother, Mrs. was the original
Marit,a.na in Sydney at the old Victoria on April 19, 1849.
J. Howson was Don Caesar, the military gentleman who
expresses in song a desire to lie down on a wind-swept
plain and die ; F. Howson was Don Jose, G. H. Rogers
was the King, and his wife appeared as Lazarillo. The
original of the latter “ boy ” part in the Big Smoke in
1845 was Miss Poole (afterwards Mrs. Bacon), for whom
the charming song, “Alas, those Chimes,” was expressly
composed. Perhaps the most distinguished cast of
“Maritana” in Sydney was in the halycon days of
William Saurin Lyster : Don Caesar, Henry Squires ; Don
Jose, Farquharson ; King of Spain, Walton ; Maritana,
Lucy Escott; Lazarillo, Georgia Hodson. Last*profes-
sional production of Wallace’s opera was by Musgrove’s
co., at the Royal in 1901. The previous two decades of
the opera in Australia are associated, chiefly, with Annie
Montague and Charles Turner. But a history could be
written about “ Maritana” in Australia.
“Snell”: All things considered, actor and actress be-
haved very well when Gaston Mervale’s wig took fire in
“ She Stoops to Conquer,” at Melbourne Royal the other
night. For a few moments the house yelled at Mervale,
but he went calmly on with his part, imagining there was
a cat fight in the gallery. Then Miss Neville extinguished
him, and the brigade arrived too late. My only recollec-
tion of old Harwood is of an occasion when his coat took
fire and he went hunting about the stage for the occasion
of the audience’s frantic howls while little flames curled
up his back. A herculean youth from the front stalls
swarmed on to the stage, dragged Harwood down and
quenched him. Later Harwood expressed a hope that
the audience would bear with him if he was not quite up
to the mark, as he had been greatly put out.
The other day the Victorian police were forced to
grapple with the pitiful problem of Beatrice Maude
Absolem. This damsel started to put on an abnormal
quantity of flesh at an early age, whereupon her parents,
scenting an easy way of making a living, fattened her up
for show purposes, and succeeded so well that she now
weighs a stone for each of her 20 years. Unfortunately
for her, they were so busy showing her plentiful avoirdu-
pois about the country that they quite omitted to nourish
her brain, and to-day she is about as advanced mentally
as a child of six. The neglectful parents died a year or
two back, and since then a brother-in-law has maintained
the mountainous freak ; but as he found a 10-stone income
unequal to the strain of feeding an extra 20-stone girl, he
asked the Law to bear a hand. And the Law, failing any
reasonable solution of the problem, first charged the
infant with the customary insulting behavior, and then
passed her on to Yarra Bend as an imbecile. Which is a
lamentable conclusion to a long course of feed and greed.
“ Sceneshifter ”: The revival of “ The Taming of the
Shrew ” reminds me that there is a first-class opera on the
subject by Hermann Goetz, a Teuton, which would suit
Wren’s crowd of warblers. An English version is well-
known in London, where it was first produced under J.
B. Chatterton’s management at Drury Lane in 1878, and
afterwards by the Carl Rosa Co. Widman is responsible
for the libretto, which is a free adaptation of the divine
William’s remarks. Goetz’s “Francesca da Rimini” was
to be revived in October by the London College of Music
students at a matinee.
“Melb.”: And still the Sunday shows come in Mel-
bourne. Wirth’s circus is the latest. There are now
10,000 regular attendants at the Yarra-side amusement
shops on the Lord’s Day ; others go variously to Wirth’s,
the Bijou, the Cyelorama, the Hippodrome, the Demo-
cratic Cluh, the Masonic Hall and the Guild Hall. I
figure out that the sum taken by the different entertain-
ments last Sabbath eve came to a full £2OO.
“E.F.”: Writing of Marie Lohr’s success in London,
somebody remarked that he didn’t understand why her
father—L. J. Lobr—was popularly known as “ Daddy.”
Well, the term signified his position among the theatri-
cal business managers of his time. Lohr was recognised
as the “daddy ” of the crowd in his methods of dealing
with men and matters. He had a larger number of per-
sonal friends than any other conductor of theatrical
shows, and every time he worked a business point with
conspicuous cleverness, it would be remarked that “ Lohr
was a daddy,” otherwise a “boshter” —one who not
only knew the ropes, but was singularly tactful. Lohr,
all the same, had no love for the travelling-showman
business, and when he had finished with Charles Arnold
and “ What Happened to Jones,” and Arnold went back
to England with a fortune, Lohr bought the hotel at
Inverloch (Vic.), where for years he has abided. At first
he kept himself in touch with Melbourne by going up
to town occasionally. The intervals between his visits
grew longer, and now he is rooted to the summer resort.
In fact, Lohr is Inverloch.
“ Symp.”: Margaret Anglin is, as far as lean remember,
the first American actress on the Australian stage who
has not carried her profession in her appearance. Other
“star” ladies—talented or merely clever—from Uncle
Sam’s district have looked like members of the theatrical
sisterhood when they were playing ordinary lady parts in
comedy or drama. Miss Anglin presents the woman who
is non-theatrical in her style. She brings no suggestion
of the stage on to the stage in her make-up, deportment,
or elocution. Therefore she is least convincing in a pic-
torial sense when she takes the character of Camille,
whom one thinks of as a showy young woman with histri-
onic arts of fascination.
THE BETTER PART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Denise Orme, who left the stage last year, after her
marriage with Captain the Hon. John Yarde-Buller,
eldest son of Lord Churston, made her re-appearance in
Mr. G. P. Huntley’s new play, “The Hon’able Phil,” at
the Hicks Theatre on October 3. “The reason why I
came back to the stage is because I like it so much,” she
told an interviewer. “It has such a wonderful fascina-
tion for me, and I felt I could not quite give it up.”—
News item.
Let others rave about the joys of smart
Society :
Far more than these a superfatted part
Appeals to me.
Girls who adore the pleasures that a court
Shivoo affords
Regard a peer’s heir’s helpmate as distraught
Who seeks the boards.
Their elders hoist aloft protesting hands,
Then let them fall
In wonderment. None of them understands
The footlight’s call.
The matron of society, who walks
Abroad with red
Upon her cheeks, is barred. Her husband talks
Her well-nigh dead.
When from the wings, contrariwise, shebounds
With lip-salve, grease-
Paint, powder on her face, lo ! cheering sounds
Without surcease.
As wife, she has an audience of, one
(He answers “ Bosh ! ”).
As actress, list’ning thousands sit like stone, .
And murmur “ Gosh ! ”
Humdrum and drab her frocks must be as femme,
Covert or sole,
In private life. No rainbow equals them
In a stage rOle.
Finally (chiefest point) the world’s rules spare
To her who’s wed
Off stage, only one love ; a mummer’s are
Unlimited.
N.S.W.
D.B.J.
(Continued on page 25.)


'9-
m
A Summer Shirt.
The one illustrated is essentially for comfort.
It is made of Oeylon Flannel, a beautiful, soft,
light material, which gives with 'the motions
of the body, and is a vast improvement on the
“ stiff ” shirt.
The soft double cuff and soft detachable collar
are also aids to comfort found in this summer
shirt. In a variety of beautiful stripe designs.
Price 7/0.
Soft shirts, without collar, in light, close-
grained zephyr, a delightfully cool material,
Price 0/0.
Please state size of collar when ordering.
Free Carriage on these goods throughout the
Commonwealth.
David Jones Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Whether the merits of Dalgety as a Federal
Capital site will ultimately triumph may be very
doubtful. But the supreme merit of D.C.L.
Whisky in assisting Unprejudiced Intelligence to
attain its wisest moments is unquestionable. In-
telligence, eager for Illumination, naturally seeks
the Mental Arc Lamp of D.C.L.*
sd
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
There were most of the makings of another
Sunshine horror on the Victorian railways on the
evening of last holiday—King’s Birthday. As a
loadted train was preparing to leave Spencer-
street for Essendon, a spare engine, returning
from Flinders-street to the North Melbourne
sheds, slipped over the viaduct, rounded the
curve, and flung straight into the Essendon train
instead of taking the outer track to the sheds.
The quick-witted driver saw the danger and
pulled up in time to avoid more than a slight
hump; but had a dozen loaded carriages or a
score of cattle-trucks been behind him, not all the
King’s horses nor all the Queen’s men could
have kept the two trains apart.
* * * *
Coburg (Vic.) Council, which loftily
charged the Melbourne Hospital with sweating,
and got a blistering rejoinder to the effect that,
when the local councils sent along so many
patients and so few subscriptions, the hospital
couldn’t pay good wages, has discovered the same
evil right in its own territory. Long years ago
came a nice, plausible person named Private
Enterprise, who asked the council how it would
like a beautiful, up-to-date horse-tram service.
It said it just would. Bo Private Enterprise came
with his antediluvian box-cars and partially-dead
horses, acquired road rights, and started a dila-
tory sort of service along the Sydney-road. He
has been there ever since, only his box-cars have
grown older and his horses have grown deader.
He is a kindly institution and provides many a
polite and lethargic young man with a steady
job. The young man has only to work, it is said,
for about 70 to 80 hours a week, and for this a
grateful boss forces him to accept 255. every seven
days. But the boss won’t have him working altor
gether. In case he should get infatuated with his
job, and become a sort of job-lunatic, and drink the
horses and the car, the boss makes him take every
sixth Sunday off for recreation and enjoyment.
Which is unpatriotic on the part of Private
Enterprise, seeing that one holiday in every six
weeks is calculated to encourage the alleged tired
feeling.
* * * *
Last week West Leichhardt (Sydney) rose
in sudden insurrection in the matter of its public
school. The story told was that (1) the building
is 20 years old; (2) it was erected when the popu-
lation was one-third of what it is now, and it
hasn’t been enlarged since; (3) it consists of one
class-room, consequently a whole lot of children
have now to be taught in the corridor, the cap-
room, and in a shed in the playground ; (4) there
are 57 broken panes; (5) the roof leaks amazingly ;
(6) the shed and verandahs so block the light
that the children are mostly half-blind, and many
of them have to wear spectacles ; (7) the master is
also partially blind ; (8) the place is dirty, un-
painted and unventilated ; (9) the windows won’t
go up; (10) the Venetian blinds are almost all
broken. It is a powerful indictment, and it
suggests a fine chance for the rich person who de-
sires to put a solid fire insurance on his soul, or to
advertise himself and get into Parliament, or
something like that. Australia has many dilapi-
dated State schools. Instead of giving money to
the Church or the heathen or the Salv’armv or the
local Agricultural Show, a rich man who is crav-
ing after advt. could hardly do better than build
a school—a nice, healthy, commodious school,
well lighted, well ventilated, with handsome
desks and seats, a good library, elegant zinc ceil-
ings, good water supply, a fine tree-shaded play-
ground, gymnasium, teacher’s residence, etc. —and
put his name (probably Boggs) in large letters
on the front, and then present the place to the
State, and get all the State potentates to open it.
And after that he could stand for the Assembly,
and go in with a whoop.
* * *
This year’s Federal exhibition of the S.A.
Society of Arts is a good all-round show, domi-
nated by several big canvases. The splashes-of-
sunlight picture by Phillips Fox, a work that
shows signs of French influence, lias been bought
for the Adelaide Art Gallery. (*He calls it “A 1
Fresco,” and it can be seen as the frontispiece to
the November Lone Hand.) The Board of
Governors has looked on this show and found it
good, and has spent twice its ordinary £250 grant
in purchases, acquiring Albert Hanson's “ Land
of the Golden Fleece ” and an immense picture by
Marie Tuck. She is an Adelaide school-teacher
who lost her voice, went to Paris to study art,
and now, after a long interval of silence,
sends out two works that have hung in the
Salon. Her “Fish Market ”is a powerful com-
position, but gloomy and inanimate. Cut
out the floorful of fish, and the title might
as well be “Exiles for Siberia, Waiting for the
Train.” The other cheques go to local painters.
Hans Heysen has been in Sydney, and gives to
his Harbor impressions an Italian air. Will Ash-
ton has stayed at home and painted Heysen’s
gumtrees. He and John White sell a 50-guinea
seascape each, and the versatile Heysen a small,
clever flower-study. The other things are still-
life or portraits; among the latter is one of a. well-
known society girl, and the hanging of it in the
Art Gallery is a precedent that may give a little
trouble to the selectors in future. The unbought
include Lionel Lindsay, with some delicate little
landscapes, classical in tone (they are being picked
up eagerly by private purchasers); and J. S.
Watkins, whose black gauze over flesh, “ Traum-
erei,” has only one weak bit about it —the face;
also Dattilo-Rubbo and several Sydney ladies.
Maoriland sends some big, cold, powerful land-
scapes. Bernard Hall has a blue hat and a sun-
burnt face against a screaming green and yellow
background—difficulties devised just for the fun
of surmounting them. Ford Paterson is hardly
at his best, and C. Wheeler’s costume-study is
spoiled by the unnecessary ugliness of thegirl inside
the frock. The whole show is eloquent of Aus-
tralia’s strange inability—or unwillingness? —to
draw a pretty face, a trick which every young
English artist acquires as one of the first points of
the game.
BRINGING OUT THE GHOST.
Now we have a Labor Government in power, we
must expect the same old thing—only worse.
AMBIGUOUS.
HOSTESS: “ It’s beginning to rain; you'll
get wet; I think you'd better stay to
dinner.”
DEPARTING GUEST: “ Oh, dear, no. It’s not
raining so badly as all that! ”
An unpleasant citizen of Geelong (Vic.)
was much hurt lately. He was a retailer of
alleged milk, and, as he had omitted to get the
necessary license, he was invited to court and
fined £5, with Costs. But it wasn’t the fine that
hurt his tender feelings ; it was the fact that “he
had been given to understand the details of his
dairy would not be given in court,” and they were.
His vexation will be appreciated when the details
are considered
Full milkcans stood in the room used as a living and
bedroom ; in a bath, which defendant used and to which
cows had access, were milkcans and utensils. Near by,
in a heap of manure, were putrid fish, rabbits, and other
decayed matter ; the cowbail was alongside the pigsty,
and was covered with filth ; milk-measures were bespat-
tered with filth, and one milk-bucket had a lining of an
inch of manure.
The details are sawn off at this point. The
Bulletin was nearly sawing them off at the place
where the cows were let into the bathroom ; but
it seemed a fair thing to give the milk-bucket and
the milk-measures a chance. By the way, the
milk-measures don’t seem to have had any manure
in them. That was apparently an oversight.
*•*•■**
There is not much about its beautiful harbor
that Sydney hasn’t held up for the ditzzlement of
the visitor ; still Frank Reed, inspecting-engineer
of the Mines Department in Maprjland, has dug
up an apparently new feature. His Department
sent him over to the Com-
monwealth lately to see what
was being done at the deep
mines, in the way of electric
installations and such like,
and among other places he
overhauled the colliery that
stretches out its at-present
idle arms under Sydney Har-
bor. Then, digging up re-
cords, engineer Reed found
that in all the world . there
are only three coal mines
deeper than this one ; where-
fore, as all those three are
in Belgium, Sydney Harbor,
besides all its other attrac-
tions, owns the deepest coal
mine in any country where
English is spoken. Yet pro-
bably not one in half-a-dozen
of the Harbor trippers knows
that there is a colliery under-
neath, deep or otherwise.
Excuses are one of the
necessaries of life. Ever since
the incident of the apple, man
has been in need of excuses to
present to wives, sisters,
aunts, landladies, creditors,
friends, judges, bosses, gods
and posterity. For thousands
of years the human animal
has been constructing the
story that turneth away
wrath, but the one that is
sound in all its legs and can
be guaranteed to go the full
distance and pull up in good
order has still to be invented.
The best of excuses always
limps a bit in the off fore-leg ;
the ordinary hack excuse that
hobbles into the divorce case
or breach-of-promise action is
so lame that it has to arrive
on air fours. An aged but giddy person of 62
was lately sued in an English court by a lady
of 24 with whose affections he was alleged to have
trifled. A number of his letters were read out,
and in one of them he stated : “My reason for
not writing before was my swollen feet.”
“Fourth Lubber” : The ancient paddle-
ark Gem was last week arrested by a tugboat
and lugged up the Yarra to serve the term of its
old age as a contractor’s mud punt. When an old
ship goes out of commission, it calls for a valedic-
tory poem ; but although I knew the Gem in the
early days of its ferry-ark career, I feel that a sea
poem would sit upon the elderly vessel about as
badly as a sailor’s cap does on a person with Dun-
dreary whiskers. The Gem was a strangely-
constructed craft. Its two thin funnels
smoked side by side like two friendly old
gentlemen. It was suited to the sedate traffic
between sleepy Williamstown and the gritty
“Port.” There was a look of old-fashioned dig-
nity about the Gem ? s chimney-pots that agreed
with Williamstown; they belonged to the same
top-hatted period as Melbourne’s jilted seaport,
and, as they approached the wharf, they always
suggested to me two faithful old friends coming
to visit the faded gentlewoman who has fallen on
evil days and has to do menial work in a back street
for a living. Now the old Gem itself has lost its
ancient job, and its two old-gentlemanly chimney-
pots will get grimed and splashed at the dirty
river work, whilst forsaken Williamstown clutches
a precarious living doing Melbourne’s kitchen
shipping.
ASS, ACTIVE AND PASSIVE.
HEOTOR: “ You know, Miss Smarte, I'm not
such, an ass as I look.”
MISS SKMARTE : “ Nor as you act, I hope, Mr.
Maltrave.”
A MEMBER OF THE ELECT GROWS IMPATIENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
But to-day we have something else to do than look back
at the Battle of the Boyne. We have to start a battle of
our own. The great crowd in front of me is crammed
with a great sentiment, which is only waiting an oppor-
tunity to burst all bonds. . . . Orangemen do not come
together mergly to show their gratification over victories
earned 200 yeaip ago. I believe they have been waiting
for some prominent, courageous statement from their
grand-masters. If something is not done within the next
two months I am a most disappointed man. — Bill Wilks,
blood-thirstily, at Clontarf (9/11/’08).
What do you hope tor, Wilks, M.P. ?
Say ! —tho’ Rome reels aghast.
Is War toward ? Are we to be
Led ’gainst Her at long last?
Shall we meet some near gladsome day
Within the holy fane
Of Dill, and arm us for the fray
And move upon the Bane ?
Shall transports, ’neath an Admiral
From Derry, lie in wait
To bear us to the Cardinal,
And land us at his gate,
That we may tear his palace down *
And leap upon his Sem-
inary, and thus win renown
’Mongst those who Rome contemn ?
Shall Noo South stream with Papist blood,
The while our righteous ire
Spends itself for the public good
In rounds of Kentish Fire?
Speak, Brother Wilks 1 Be frank ! Unbend 1
You can’t imagine how
Talk re Boyne Water bores a friend.
We would do something now.
Chat anent bygone gore is stale.
Our part’s to emulate
The past, and rouse a Romish wail
Throughout the Mother State.
Long years, Bill Wilks, we’ve voted for '
Your sort that you might drop
A brick on Rome. Now drop it or
Retire, and shut up shop.
N.S.W.
AN ELDER (METHODY PERSUASION).


Ordinary ability plus a good memory makes
success, and half-an-hour daily for six weeks will perfect
your memory. The Pelman System is the natural one,
easily and quickly acquired, permanent benefits, simple
and very interesting. Taught by post. Write, Pelman
School of Memory, 3 Stock Exchange Bldgs., Melbourne.*
There was a young lady named Kate,
Who one day remarked to her mate,
“ Take some of these Pills,
They’re a cure for all ills,
Laxo-Tonie’s the name, and they’re great.”
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Yice-liegal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
In BLACK
or TAN.
f
16/6
A PAIR.
9d. extra for
Postage.
A Boot full of
Good Value.
The price—l6/6—makes this boot probably the best
value ever offered for the money.
It is of box calf, with welted soles, which makes it
comfortable, flexible and capable of repairs by hand.
The shapes are from American foot-form lasts, with
medium toes for the most part, but'we can supply
wider or narrower styles as desired.
We recommend this boot as something high-class
at a moderate price.
Messrs. Peapes & Co. Ltd., Sydney.
Please send me a pair of Boots as above at 16/6.
Size toes shaped (state whether broad or
narrow ) I enclose...
Name
Address.
Write for our New Illustrated Catalogue.
PEAPES & Co, Ltd,
"MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Grafton (N.S.W.) Land Board sat up
the other day and did a hard think—and then de-
cided in favor of the lady. She was going to get
married, and the gentleman said he would like to
show his bona fides by making her a substantial
gift beforehand. She, good sweetheart, said her
Edwin knew what was best to do with the money ;
and what she should do with it ? After thinking
it over, Edwin suggested a 1280-acre selection on
Yugilbar—next door to his own, in fact. So
Angelina applied for the selection; then, having
applied, she married her Edwin. If she had
waited until she had said “I will,” she couldn’t
have applied ; also, if she applied merely as
Edwin’s dummy the application wouldn’t be any
good. Of course the Yugilbar station people, not
relishing the loss of another 1280 acres, opposed
the application; and that was why the Land
Board sat up and thought hard. Finally, it seems
to have decided that Edwin had every right in
the world to make a gift before his marriage ; and
the law didn’t say that Angelina shouldn’t use
the money to select with —in fact, it expressly
allows Angelina to go on the land. So the Land
Board instructed the surveyor to go ahead.
MOST VALUABLE.
“ A man can do anything with determination.
Ask papa to start you in his office.”
“But I have no references!”
“O, I’LL give you a reference.”
The Bank of “New South ” at Windsor
(N.S.W.) has been celebrating its jubilee, having
been established in 1858. It has occupied the
same building all the time, and has had but four
managers—Robert Nugent, C. W. A. Hole,
Charles Chester, and William Scott.
HOPES RISING.
MISS PRISCILLA : " Well, I declare, that's
the third man I've caught smiling at me."
In Melbourne the man who tars and sands
the streets walks arm in arm with the north wind.
Still, warm days are of no use to the fiend with
the cauldron and the heap of grit; he waits until
the furnace-hot north wind comes whirling down
on the city, and then he goes forth and smears the
highways' with hot, bubbling, black liquid, and
throws "the dust of the sea light-heartedly into the
air with long-handled shovels. Some of the sand
falls on the road, but the rest of it the north wind
blows over and into and through the citizens and
all their works and deeds. The mess on the road
remains in a semi-liquid state until the next chilly
change rushes up from the south and cools the
atmosphere; but by that time the restless feet of
the multitude have carried tar on to every square
inch of carpet in the metropolitan area, and Mel-
bourne wears the look of a city over which the
Devil has galloped 19 times.
* » * *
“ St. Emilion ” holds forth about wine :
F. Castella, employed by the Victorian Government to
investigate European viticulture, has given a number of
progress reports. Castella reached Marseilles in July,
1907. Went to Montpellier, in the Rhone Valley, and
Switzerland: also visited the Ardeche, Vaucluse, Avignon,
etc. At Vaucluse, M. Tacussel has 800 varieties of table
grapes, and makes annually 20,000 gallons of wine. The
Rhone Valley wines are more like the best Australian
than those of Southern France. Castella gave close atten-
tion to Portugal and Spain. Saw vines trained on trees,
like Virgil’s. These almost defy phylloxera, but won’t
produce the strong wines demanded in Australia. Why
do we demand the fiercely alcoholic ? To produce that
rich port wine so much in favor with King Edward and
the nobs, Castella saw men trampling the grapes with
their bare feet, 20 men at once. (Yah !) In some
wine regions the trampling is done by nice girls. (I once
saw the pretty daughter of a Melbourne baker sitting on
the doorstep with her bare feet all over dough.)
His Majestv King Edward, smacking his royal chops over
the fruity port, exclaims “ There’s a peculiarly fascinat-
ing flavor in this wine, don’tcherknow.” Whereupon the
vigneron says, “ Put on 50 men for the next batch.” Yet
what a very faint whiff King Edward gets in
his port, of 'the delight experienced by the Queen
of the Cannibal Islands over boiled Chadband !
Very important are Castella’s notes on the table grape
export at Almeria, a Spanish seaport. It has enormously
advanced of late years, through the remarkable keeping
qualities of the Obanez grapes, packed in cork dust.
They are shipped even as far as Singapore and Java, and
it is certain that they will appear in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, if they can only strike us out of season. Grapes
in winter will be a hit. In 1900 nearly 900,000 barrels
were shipped from Almeria, each of 501 b., chiefly to Eng-
land, Germany and America. In 1902 there were over
1,000,000 barrels. In 1907 the astounding total of
2,443,383 barrels was reached. Only recently did
the Spaniards find out what to do with their
Obanez. The whole district is transformed from a sleepy
Rip Van Winkle place to a scene of bustling prosperity.
If need be Australia can obtain the Obanez grape, and it is
sure to flourish here. In Almeria’s smaller way, the case
has been like the export of Australian butter.
* * » *
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant: —
Another shabbv landmark of old Sydney is doomed to
demolition—the house with the pine trees on the S.E.
corner of Castlereagh and Hunter streets. The property
was recently sold to Mr. Macdonald, of some turf fame,
for £16,500," and an eight-storeyed edifice is to scrape the
skv on the site. The property is understood to have been
in the family of Tom Kite, of Bathurst, who, in 1830,
owned the Dun Cow Inn in the City of the Plains. There
were then three pubs in Bathurst, but in the’twenties
the Dun Cow was the only inn in the place, and Mr. Kite
quenched the Plains’ thirst all on his own. In 1883, it is
printed, Tom Kite! was worth £25,000. He was a
careful man, and so fixed the Hiinter-Castlereagh-streets
property that it could not be made ducks and drakes of
by any misguided descendant. It was tied up so tightly
that it could not even be leased for a longer period than
seven years. In the Sydney boom time a speculator
offered’ to erect extensive premises on the site if a longer
tenure could be granted. An Act of Parliament giving
power to grant a 21 years’ lease was obtained, but the
delay was fatal. Someone stuck a pin into the boom
bubble, and it burst. The house is possibly SO years old,
and was occupied at one time by the Josephson family.
It stood well off the street, and was then considered
quite a high-toned place, although one Willian Guere had
a cow paddock and sold milk alongside. In the early
’forties John Hood kept it as a lodging-house ; in 1847
Mrs. Dunsdon kept it as a hash-house ; and in 1850
Mrs. Carew took up the running, and ran for
quite a number of years. In the mid ’sixties
one Richard Rogers, a veterinary surgeon, resided
there, and in 1866 the house was licensed to sell,
etc. George P. Barkhausen opened it as the Club
House Hotel. At that time none of the present ram-
shackle addition*-were there. Henry Barnett succeeded,
and in his time Charles Mathews, the comedian, lived on
the premises. In 1872 Mr. J. C. Bowden, a retired police
inspector, took the place, and remained 16 years; then
he removed to another house round the corner in Eliza-
beth-street. Mrs. Sarah Sullivan took up the running,
but she was a short-distance woman and didn’t keep the
license long. The place got down by easy stages to be a
shanty of the common lodging-house type, and a few
years ago a murder and suicide happened which may be
said to have been the death-blow of the ancient house.
*■ * * *
The N.S.W. Fall Court most sensibly re-
versed the decision of Divorce Justice Simpson in
a cas" which concerned a member of the great
Smith family. The trouble began in 1895, when
Mr. Smith wrote to Mrs. Smith that he was going
away for good. It was evidently a fact, as he
hasn’t been seen since. According to Mrs. Smith
he was a hard drinker before he left, and as the
lady has struggled along without him for 13 years.
and" reared the family by her own unaided
efforts, she preserves few kindly remembrances
of Smith. Therefore, when Justice Simoson
asked her if she wanted to have him back
again, she promptly and honestly and reason-
ably answered that she did not. So the
Judge refused a divorce on the ground of
collusion or Something, though a collusion
that was 13 years old seemed ridiculous
enough. In fact Simpson’s law would lay it
down, to all intents and purposes, that a woman
could only get a divorce for desertion if she didn’t
want it, in which case she wouldn’t ask for it.
The Supreme Court was wildly unanimous in
granting the decree and casting the views of Simp-
son to the four winds of devilment.
* * * • *
There was a mild sort of mutiny on the
old, brown Yarra on the Saturday before King’s
Birthday. The Manawatu, bound for the Queens-
cliff forts with 200 artillerymen on board, was
steaming down the soupy stream a little behind
the Coolgardie, when some part of the steering gear
got tired and sent the Manawatu bumping into the
vessel in front. The shock hurled several field-mar-
shals and honorary corporals over the bows of the
collidor on to the deck of the collidee, but all save
one managed to scramble back before the ships
came apart. When they got clear it was seen
that very little damage had been done, and the
Coolgardie continued on its way with the
transferred field-marshal waving madly to
the rest of his regiment. The Manawatu
then lit out once more for the open sea,
but the same old accident happened again,
only instead of bumping another ship the vessel
rushed into a wharf. The artillerymen seized
their baggage and jumped ashore whilst the
mariners searched the ship for punctures. None
being found, the major in command ordered his
warriors to re-embark on the sea-charger, but
they sat down firmly on the bank and said they’d
be bombarded first. Orders failing to shift them,
a shout was raised for volunteers, and about 70 of
the 200 climbed back to take a third chance in the
raffle. The remainder hoofed it in shattered order
back to the city, and, after vainly requesting the
Commandant to send them to Queenscliff by rail,
they went and told the story to a newspaper and
dispersed to their homes. It is a comic opera
army that does this sort of business.
• * • •
“NisiPrius” writes:—
One matterof litigation which brings joy to the N.S.W.
Bar concerns a piece of land down south which, about 10
years back, was leased by the State to O’Keefe. He ran
his jumbucks on it under an occupation license. In 1900,
or thereabouts, the State disposed of the land under' the
Crown Lands Act to Malone, and the law case, O’Keefe v.
Malone, ate up £BOO in Costs before Malone got the land.
Somewhere about here O’Keefe died and was tombstoned ;
but his executors, heirs and assigns lodged a claim for
£2OOO against the State for giving Malone the property'.
When the case came on the Crown took the point that
the plaintiff’s declaration was bad —in other words, that
some grey-headed old legal point was fatal to the way the
pleadings were drawn up. This mere side issue doddered
along from one Court to another Jill the High Court
decided it in favor of the O’Keefe party. Then the real
struggle commenced, and the State, which stands for the
Malone interest, has kicked the first goal, the O’Keefe
license being declared void. But, for about the tenth
time, notice of appeal has been given, and the case of
O’Keefe’s Dead Body v. the State acting in the cause of
Malone, has a long way to travel yet.
* * * #
On Friday, Nov. 3, a stock train left Cur-
lewis (N.S.W.) for the Homebush saleyards, with
800 sheep. It was due on Saturday morning, but
it arrived 28 hours late. That Saturday was the
record hot day, and when the train arrived on
Sunday 340 of the unfortunate jumbucks were
dead or dying. On being asked the reason, John-
son’s department explained that the terribly hot
Saturday afternoon was the cause of the slaughter.
The fact that the train was due at Homebush on
Saturday morning didn’t seem to trouble John-
son. With the summer coming on, Johnson’s
stock trains and their snaildike progress would
seem more in need of urgent attention from
Wade’s Government than even the Gambling
Act.
* • » *
A family of 10, bom and bred in one
house near Golden Square. Bendigo, have all died
from consumption, and the father and mother
have done likewise. The local Board of Health is
now thinking of destroying the infected premises
by fire. There is nobody left to die in the house,
and nobody who knows its history will live in it,
so at present the place is doing no great harm, but
some stranger might take it, and so it is better
destroyed. The Golden Square tragedy suggests
again the idea that every house should have its
life history preserved in the records of the Health
Department, and that the owner or agent should
be bound to hand a copy to the incoming tenant
before the agreement is signed ; also that the
house’s record should appear in full on the back
of the lease, even if the lease has to be enlarged to
hold it. When the death list gets so long that it
takes the hinder part of
two leases to hold it,
it is about time that
house was pulled
down.
PROMISE OF REFORMATION.
The worst thins about Australia, he thought, was its
politicians—but they would improve.
MISS AUSTRALIA : “Going to be good, ch! Glad
to hear it.”
Apropos the proposed memorial cross on
the site of the first church in Australia, corner
Hunter and Bligh streets, Sydney, the Rev. J. S.
Hassall, in his memoirs, published in Brisbane in
1902, says : “It stood near what is now Macquarie
Place, Sydney, the east side of the Cove, and
used to be called the Wattle-and-dab Church.”
J. S. Hassall was a native, son of Thomas Hassall,
and grandson of Roland Hassall, who arrived in
Sydney from Tahiti in 1794. He was also a grand-
son of "Parson Marsden, and was born in 1823, or
thereabouts. He was about 15 years of age when
Parson Marsden died, and probably gathered
from him the legend of the Wattle-and-dab Church.
INCREDIBLE INNOCENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ What is ‘ shickered ’?” Mr. Justice Simpson asked a
witness in the Divorce Court to-day. “It means drunken-
ness, doesn’t it ?” replied the witness. “ I don’t know ; I
asked you,” said his Honor.— Daily paper.
Are you so simple, J udge ?
And don’t you really know
The words that float around
On all the winds that blow.
Would it convey no sense,
No little ray of light,
Unto your brain if one
Yelled: “G. 8., I am * tight ’?”
What if a strange old man
Fell on your neck and blinked,
So that those present cried :
“ Y’r ’Onor, he is inked.”
Would nothing dawn on you ?
Wouldn’t the fact be clear
That “ he is inked ” was tant-
Amount to “ he’s in beer ” ?
Assuming for the sake
Of argument, some hind
Trod on you in a tram
And told you he was “ blind,”
And asked you for a match,
And grasped you by the hand.
And breathed on you—say, Judge,
Would you not understand ?
Haven’t you in your time
Seen some wild soul advance,
Noisy, hilarious,
Palpably “ in a trance,”
And likewise paralyt-
ic,” “potty,” “ on his ear,”
“ Full,” “ sozzled,” “ bosky,” “ tanked,”
“Boozed,” “ hitting up a tear’”?
Nav, Judge, you wrong yourself ;
Herein none knowledge lacks,
Save confinees in “ homes”—
Dull dipsomaniacs.
N.S.W.
J.D.


GIFT.
A New “Tangye”
Coupled Compound Condensing’ Engine, Cylinders,
15in. x 2Gin. x 32in. Stroke; Flywheel (in halves),' 12in. x
a ■ 9|in. ; weight, about 6 tons; Throttle Governor; High
Pressure Cylinder, fitted with Meyer Cut-off Gear; Jet Condenser, driven from L.P. Tail Rod
MUST BE SOLD TO CLOSE ACCOUNTS.
Particulars from “LIQUIDATOR,” Box 117, G-.F.0.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDIGO : Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK — Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps {or all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester ; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Savings Bank op South Australia is
another of those saving; banks which, though not con-
trolled by the Government, know that the Government
must stand behind them in case of trouble. The Govern-
ment knows that also—the Treasurer admitted it in his
last Budget speech. The present arrangement is wasteful
and clumsy. The Savings Bank borrows money from the
public and lends either to mortgagors or (if mortgages
are not available) to the State. The State has to take
the responsibility for the safety of the bank without
managing it. At the same time it runs a State Bank,
which also lends money on mortgage, not only of farm
but also of suburban land. This State Bank has to
borrow on debentures, for which it has to advertise ;
and often it may have to bustle round and “scratch”
for money when tbe Savings Bank has a large amount of
idle coin in its vaults, or large balances for which it is
getting little or nothing at its bankers. Thus, besides
the needless expense of a superfluous establishment,
there is waste at both ends—in getting money (in the
case of the State Bank) and in lending it out (in the case
of the Savings Bank). In N. S. Wales the State Savings
Bank and the Advances to Settlers Department have been
amalgamated ; and the people's savings are available at
once for the extension of settlement. In Victoria, the
Advances Department, is likewise a branch of the Savings
Bank. It is about time S. Australia, which is intensely
practical and abhors waste in most things, followed on
the same lines.
The progress of the Savings Bank of South
Australia in recent years has been as follows :
Interest paid Amount on
June, Profits. to Depositors. Deposit. Reserves.
1900 .. £10,590 3 per cent. £3,489,052 £142,454
1901 .. 17,003 3 „ 3,782,575 159,457
1902 .. 13,012 3 ~ 3,974,709 172,469
1903.. 20,218 3 ~ 4,172,720 192,687
1904 .. 5,191 Si ~ 4,202,637 197,878
1905 .. 7,431 3} . ~ 4,380,358 205,309
1906 .. 7,022 3* „ 4,750,192 212,331
1907.. 12,130 3i ~ 5,304,704 224,461
1908.. 19,305 St „ 5,803,301 243,766
In 1900 the amount lent on mortgage was £1,814,046 ;
apparently a uniform rate of 4 per cent, was then
charged, leaving 1 per cent, to cover expenses and provide
for losses and reserves. In 1904 the new loans were
mostly taken at 4i per cent., and the two rates—4 and 41
per cent.—have been charged since then. The amount
outstanding on mortgage is now £1,476,163, leaving
£4,570,904 of funds (deposits and reserves) to be repre-
sented by loans to the State and liquid assets. The
latter amount to £272,773, which is probably more than
the circumstances of the case require.
The Westicrn Australian Bank
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1902.. £15,489 17£ p.c. = £8,750 £6,739 £248,536
Mar., 1903.. 18,780 171 >. „ 8,750 10,030 258,566
Sept., 1903.. 20,974 17| ~ ~ 8,750 12,224 270,790
Premiums on 2500 new shares 31,260 302,040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 17£ p.c. = 10,938 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17| ~ „ 10,938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 171 ~ „ 10,938 10,295 337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20 ~, ~12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.c. = 12,500 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 ~ ~15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,758 20 ~ ~ 15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 „ ~15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums paid on 2500 new shares 31.560 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,568 20 p.c.= 17,006 6,562 449,440
Premiums on new shares 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c. „ 17,500 3,957 464,769
This bank, which had a capital of only £BO,OOO when the
Westralian gold boom arrived, proceeded to steadily in-
crease that total, and at the same time to strengthen the
reserves by means of premiums on the new share issues.
At first the new shares were put up to tender; subse-
quently a fixed premium was required ; and finally the
plan of tendering was reverted to. An average of
£27 2s. 3d. was got for the last lot of 2500 £lO shares ; so
that the 20 per cent. div. on this little lot amounts really
to only a return of £7 7s. 6d. per cent. Previous
premiums have got down to £l2 10s. ; but as far back as
1893 they averaged as high as £l5 6s. sd. for an
issue of 1000 shares. The 20 per cent. div. is therefore
to a great extent misleading, such a large proportion
of the shares—well over half, anyway—having been issued
at a premium of 125 per cent, or over.
In the champagne days of Westralia the bank
had a great time. It was on the spot, arid it took advan-
tage of that fact. Charges for almost every variety of
banking service were high. The bank had at the same
time the use of a very large proportion of free money.
As at Sept., 1903, the deposits not bearing interest were
£1,062,589 ; those for which the bank had to pay were
only £608,844. Of course it was necessary to keep a large
amount of coin on hand-; still the bank made profitable
use of much of the free money. Things are, however,
changing, and the odd twopence is no more despised now
in the West than it is in most other places. So profits are
moving down ; calculated on the basis of capital and re-
serves combined, they have lately been as follows :
Mar., 1905 ..£9 7 9 p.c. I Mar,, 1907 .. £9 3 10 p.c.
Sept., 1905 .. 9 4 9 ~ I Sept., 1907 ..10 4 2 ~
Mar., 1906 .. 814 5 ~ I Mar., 1908 .. 8 711 „
Sept., 1906.. 9 1 9,, | Sept., 1908 .. 617 5 „
The acting chairman told shareholders at the half-yearly
meeting that £5OOO had been spent during the last six
months on premises, and had been charged up to work-
ing expenses. That, of course, would account for much,
though not all, of the slump in the disclosed profits. The
chairman also told shareholders that the premises were
reasonably worth twice as much as they stood at in the
books. That seems highly probable ; for the bank has
paid for practically all the building it has done in the
past 15 years out of revenue : the premises account has
only moved up £5OOO during that time. Recent move-
ments of the various balance-sheet items are shown here-
under :
Sept., 1907. Sept., 1908.
Notes in circulation .. £119,770 £114,315 Dec. £5,455
Bills, etc ' 338,999 212,175 Dec. 126,824
Deposits at interest .. 910,083 901,755 Dec. 8,328
Free deposits .. .. 1,152,162 1,013,548 Dec. 138,614
Liquid assets .. .. 1,235,446 1,011,953 Dec. 223,493
Advances .. .. 1,796,886 1,822,109 Inc. 25,223
Premises .. .. 65,000 65,000
In spite of the decrease of liquid assets, the bank still
holds 45 per cent, of all its debts to the public in liquid
form. It is a heavy proportion ; but, then, the bank has
a heavy proportion of free deposits, which are liable to be
called for at any moment. The advances are still in-
creasing ; that no doubt is due mainly to the increase of
agriculture in the West. This bank is obviously putting
its trust in that rather than in mining, and it
is liable to lose less sleep in consequence, even
if the profits don’t shoot up so dazzlinglv. A
weak feature of the bank, from a profit-earning point of
view, is the very slow growth of fixed deposits. At Sep-
tember, 1900, they reached £730,487, or at the rate of
£2 4s. for every £1 of shareholders’ funds ; they now
amount to £901,755, or only £1 7s. for every £l. Appar-
ently there are not many fixed depositors in Westralia,
and that isn’t altogether a pleasant thing for a bank with
no branches in the other States to draw upon.
The Illawarra and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co. (N.S.W.): —
Net To Ee- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 190?.. £2508 8f p.c. =£2490 £lB £26,421
Mar., 1903.. 3060 ~ „ 2490 570 26,991
Sept., 1903.. 2319 sj ~ „ 2490 26,820
Mar., 1904.. 2692 8$ ~ ~ 2490 202 27,022
Sept., 1904.. 2192 SJ ~ ~ 2490 26,724
Profit made on sale of wharf .. 21,051 47,775
Assets written down, £15,377 .. .. 32,398
£24,898 of reserves transferred to capital .. 7,500
Mar., 1905.. 3562 7 p.c. = 2614 948 8,448
Sept., 1905.. 2086 7 „ „ 2614 7,920
Mar., 1906.. 3062 7 ~ „ 2614 448 8,368
Sept., 1906.. 3079 7 „ „ 2625 454 8,822
Mar., 1907.. 3348 7 „ „ 2625 723 9,545
Sept., 1907.. 2628 7 „ „ 2625 3 9,548
Mar., 1908.. 2466 7 ~ „ 2625 9,389
Loss.
Sept., 1908.. 1507 Nil 7,582
The co. has had a worse time lately than even the last
line shows. . There was an item in the balance-sheet as at
March, 1908, that no doubt was partly reserve—
“ Repairs, suspense, and contingency account, £1557.”
This, owing- to a doubt as to its real character, was not
included in the reserves. In tire past half-year it was
transferred to profit and loss, so the actual loss was £1557
more than shown above, or £3064 in all. This, however,
was not all trading loss. The insurance fund was reduced
during the half-year by £lOB6, no doubt as a consequence
of the loss of the Bega ; deducting- that from the £3064,
we get £1978 as the half-year’s loss, apart from the
shrinkage of the insurance fund. Still all that may not
have been trading loss ; most likely additions were made
to insurance fund out of revenue, and in that
case, of course, more than £lOB6 was written
off that fund —the £lOB6 is the net reduction.
Numerous troubles have hit the co. The opposition (now
ended) of the Melbourne S. S. Co., high price of coal,
expenses in connection with the Bega wreck enquiry, and
the wharf laborers’ strike were amongst them. The big
landlord, who blocks settlement on the South Coast,
and supplies one ton of cargo where the co. ought
to get 10, is another trouble; but somehow he
isn’t included in the official list of the co.’s
misfortunes. For all that, he is probably a bigger one—
certainly a more persistent one—than all the others put
together. Especially after it got payment from the
State for its resumed wharf, the co.’s cash position was
very strong ; even so late as six months ago it had a
credit bank balance of £44,714 net. The loss of the Bega
and the laying-up of the Eden necessitated more pur-
chases ; also opposition had to be got rid of in the same
way. Consequently the cash balances have been reduced
to £10,376, and presumably payments are not yet com-
plete. This comparison shows how various items have
moved lately:—
March, Sept., March, Sept.,
1896. 1900. 1908. 1908.
Capital .. .. £58,096 £58,096 £75,000 £75,000
Liabilities .. 2,205 4,794 3,850 1,654
Ship Property.. 51,800 ' 66,409 39,366 66,175
Freehold, etc. .. 18,246 17,846 900 900
Cash .. .. 21,060 212 46,256 10,386
Other Assets .. 3,845 6,277 5,899 7,450
The thing that one needs to know is the amount of gross
profit written off to cover depreciation ; and a definite
answer can’t be got from the accounts. At September,
1900, it will be noted, the ships were valued in the books
at £66,409 by September, 1904, they had been written
down to £57,964 ; then, on the reconstruction of the co.,
they were written down to £40,175 ; by September, 1906,
the old vessels-were down to £36,200, and the whole of
the ship item (new vessel included) stood at £43,488 ; by
September, 1907, this had been written down to £39,700.
This indicates the extent of the writing-down, and sug-
gests that it has been of a very substantial character.
The capital of the co. is £75,000 in 100,000 £1 shares paid
to 15s.
* * * *
Hakrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., wool-
brokers, etc. (Sydney):—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1898.. £13,120 8 p.c. =£Booo £2,500 £2620 £21,812
1899.. 14,424 8 „ ~ 8000 4,000 2424 24,236
1900.. 12,741 8 ~ ~ 8000 2,000 2741 26,977
1901.. 6,120 7 ~ ~ 7000 10,000 16,097
1902.. 11,192 7 ~ ~ 7000 2,500 1692 17.789
1903.. 9,014 7 ~ ~ 7000 2,000 14 17,803
1904.. 8,845 7 ~ ~ 7000 2,000 —17,64 S
1905.. 11,778 7 ~ ~ 7000 4778 22,426
1906.. 14,805 7 ~ „ *7OOO 5,000 2805 25,231
1907.. 17,767 7 ~ „ 7000 5,000 5767 30,998
1908.. 13,568 7 ~ ~ 7000 3,000 3568 34,566
In the past 10 years this has been the history of the co.:—
Dividends .. y £72,000
Written off premises 25,500
Special losses written off (1901) .. 10,000
To reserves 12,754
Total profits £120,254
The co. was established in 1882 with a heavy goodwill
item which in 1895 stood at £40,000 ; reserves were in
that year used to clean that paper asset right off. The
principal assets are (1) wool stores, offices, etc., and (2)
advances ; both these are to some extent financed by
loans. The items have moved as follows (figures are at
the date of the various balance-sheets, before making the
appropriations):—
1895. 1900. 1907. 1908.
Debt on mortgage.. £97,000 £78,000 £60,000 £60,000
Other debts .. 77,383 115,605 93,253 87,686
Freeholds (cost) .. 179,514 179,514 189,514 189,514
Total written off
freeholds .. 9,514 26,014 39,514 44,514
Advances, etc. .. 121,770 173,082 142,750 143,752
As profit has been accumulated the borrowings have been
reduced; the amount written off premises has been
applied towards working down the mortgage, and the
reserve additions have also gone into the business. Pre-
suming that the premises are capable of earning as
much money now as they were 15 years ago, it is obvious
that the profits should now' be about £l5OO a year
more owing to the reduction of the mortgage. The
time must, however, come—though it may still be a long
way off—when the premises will have to be renewed ; so ■
this money earned by what is really a depreciation fund
can’t be regarded as all true profit. The co.’s earnings
are governed to a great extent by the season and the
wool market; they shrank during the past year because
things haven’t been quite as good in those respects with
Jumbuck lately as they were in 1906-7. The margin
between the profits and the dividend is still, however,
wide. In ordinary circumstances that, of course, would
suggest the probability of a bigger dividend ; but that, no
doubt, depends upon whether the book value of the pre-
mises and other assets—of the former especially—is much
in excess of the market value. If it is, probably the
directors wall go on at the present rate in order to work
off the dead horse as quickly as possible. There are
150,000 shares in the co. ; 50,000 of them are full}' paid to
£l, and the other 100,000 are paid to 10s., and are liable
for another 10s.
The Mt., Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £2,048
Reserves.
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil 113,124
Sept., 1904.. 129,502 12£ p.c. =£78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12 „ „ 78,750 £5,764 238,087
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 12£ „,, 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 ~ ~ 126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 ~ ~ 157,500 10,071 568,907
Mar., 1907.. 282,938 32J „ ~ 205,074 11,515 635,256
Sept., 1907.. 150,625 35 ~ ~ 220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 1908.. 141,730 20 „ ~ 126,168 9,723 559,429
Sept., 1908.. 168,130 17J ~,,110,364 12,006 605,189
First of all, though, about the amount written off during
the past year. In 1903, when Mount Lyell amalgamated
with North Lyell, the co. took over the North’s deben-
tures for £140,000. Little by little these have been paid
off ; at first they were bought up at a small discount, and
a reserve of £1899 had been thus accumulated in 1905. As
copper improved in price and prospects brightened, the
debentures went above par, and in the past half-.vear, with
£40,100 of the issue to absorb, £2uos had to be paid as
premium. This has been charged to profit and loss in the
accountsbut it seems fairer to show the amount as
written off. This has accordingly been done in the table.
There were £5596 of debentures outstanding as at Sep-
•tember 30, but all had been provided for, as there is a
suspense credit on the other side.
The profit for the half-year to March, 1908,
was, according to the accounts, £141,730. But, as ex-
plained six months ago, no less than 2389 tons of copper
was left on the co.’s hands at the end of the previous
half-year ; and this was valued in that balance-sheet at
only £5O per ton. As copper was sold in the next half-
year at an average of £6l 7s. 7d. per ton, the co. received
during that half-year,,say, £27,000 on account of the pre-
vious half-year’s product. That, of course, inflated the
profit figures for the term to the end of March, 1908, at
the expense of the previous term. At March, 1908, there
were 908 tons copper on hand, valued at £5O ; on Septem-
ber 30 there were 852 tons, still valued at £5O. The
average price obtained during the half-year was
£6O 9s. id. per ton ; so the past half-year’s pro-
fits are inflated at the expense of the previous
half-year to the extent of 56x£10 9s. Id. =£sBs.
The profit for the half-year (£168,130), less £lO,Oll
written off for depreciation, was £158,119; from that
deduct the £sBs—the amount that the co. gains by carry-
ing forward less copper than it brought forward six
months ago. This leaves £157,534 as the true profit for
the half-year, disregarding the premium paid for repur-
chased debentures. The output was 4394 tons ; therefore
the profit was at the rate of £35 17s. per ton of copper.
The average realised for copper was £6O 9s. Id. Conse-
quently the costs of producing copper at Mt. L.vell are all
the gold and the profit on by-products plus d 24 12s. Id.
per ton of the copper (the difference between £6O 9s. Id.
and £35 175.).
Mt. Lyell’s output has moved as follows :
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Sept., 1905 .. 4253 tons 365,4400 z. 12,4250 z.
Mar., 1906 .. 4565 374,762,, 12,342,,*
Sept., 1906 .. 4444 „ 329,183,, 10,746,,
Mar., 1907 .. 3796 „ 365,372,, 10,115,,
Sept., 1907 .. 4090 ~ 344,715,, 9,334,,
Mar., 1908 .. 4247 ~ 344,608,, * 10,489,.
Sept., 1908 .. 4394 ~ 336,654 ~ 9,043,,
Obviously, if 4394 tons can produce a net profit of
£157,534 with copper at £6O 9s. Id., every advance of £1
per ton adds £4394 to the profits, provided other condi-
tions remain the same ; and a movement of £5 means
slightly under 4Jd. per share in the half-year (there are
1,200,000 shares). Costs have been worked down again :
Mar., Mar., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1905. 1907. 1907. 1908. 1908.
Mining, etc. .. 4/11-91 5/10T2 5/10-69 6/4'35 6/B'9l
Smelting .. 6/5-13 .7/532 8/4T9 7/9‘60 7/179
Converting .. 1/735 1/1-53 1/232 1/2-44 1/1-21
13/039 14/4-97 15/5-20 15/43914/11-91
The comparison is, however, hardly fair in one way, be-
cause down to 1907 working account was only debited
with J.B. per ton of Mt. Lyell ore to cover cost of removing
the overburden ; after that, the debit was increased to
2s. And even that is not excessive, because the fund is
now overdrawn. The costs are remarkably low ; the de-
velopments in smelting have been particularly striking.
Practically nowadays the ore is made to smelt itself. Only
so late as six years ago the smelting cost was 12s. lOd.
In 1897 it was 18s. 2d. The remarkable reduction has
been due not to cutting down wages, but to buying
brains.
In March, 1907, the net profit was £271,423, and
copper averaged £lO6 9s. 3d. On that basis the cost of
. producing copper was all the gold and the profit on by-
products plus £34 18s. 9d. per ton of copper. That was a
large increase upon the figures of the previous years.
At September, 1906, they were £3l 6s. With
the fall in value the costs have fallen also; they
are down, as shown above, to £24 12s. Id. per
ton. This suggests also that the profit on by-products
is now' much larger than it was. At March, 1907, the co.
had £75,208 of capital in its chemical and superphosphate
works, some of which had then been recently established.
It has now no less than £117,790 in these works alone,
after allowing for depreciation. The results from this
branch are carefully hidden; except in vague terms
there is no mention Of either the output or anything else
in connection with the business, carried on now both at
Yarraville (Melbourne) and Port Adelaide. The only
thing clear is that something is now enabling the co. to
put copper on the market at £8 or £lO less than it could
18 months or two years ago ; and the reduction in mine
costs won’t account for much of it.
As to Mt. Lyell’s ore reserves : Just after Lyell
and North Lyell w'ere amalgamated (1903) General-manager
Sticht estimated the Lyell reserves at 4,495,310 tons,
worth 0-59 per cent, copper, 1.990 z. silver, and o’o4oz.
gold ; North Lyell, down to 500 ft., at 170,494 tons, worth
6-25 per cent, copper, 2’250z. silver, and o‘oosoz. gold.
The present estimate is, for Lyell, 3,382,117 tons, worth
0-54 per cent, copper, 1360 z. silver, and 0330 z. gold ; and
for North Lyell, 710*333 tons, worth 575 per cent, copper,
1330 z. silver, and o’oosoz. gold. The aggregate quantity
of ore taken out since August, 1903, has been 1,463,244
tons from Lyell, and 583,920 tons from North Lyell; so
that meantime about 350,000 tons have been developed in
Mount Lyell, and 1,123,000 tons in North Lyell. The
half-yearly output is now about 135,000 tons from Lyell,
and 65,000 tons from North Lyell, so there is about 5£
years’ work in sight at the North, and enough for another
six beyond that at Mount Lyell—if it can get any richer
stuff to keep it company.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 Co., mining silver, lead
and zinc;—
Ore Value.
Treated. r A N Divi-
tons. Silver. Lead. Profit, dends.
Sept., 1902.. 42,825 16-44 oz. 1739 p.c. £720 Nil
Mar., 1903.. 50,279 14-01 „ 16-13 ~ 1,509 Nil
Loss.
Sept., 1903.. 49,778 14-54 ~ 1639 ~ 1,777 Nil
Profit.
Mar., 1904.. 69,777 133 „ 153 ~ 12,680 Nil
Sept., 1904.. 70,643 1375 „ 143 ~ 11,090 Nil
Mar., 1905.. 59,687 1473 „ 1432 ~ 20,438 Nil
Sent 1905 J 79,073 147 ~ 15*1 ~ 41,376 \ n-ic nAr»
) Sale of stored by-products 72,964 f £ ls >ooo
Mar., 1906.. 72,364 143 oz. 13-5 p.c. 46,804 60,000
Sept., 1906.. 70,947 1371 ~ 1379 ~ 49,625 30,000
Mar., 1907.. 70,770 1234 „ 1332 ~ 61,945 55,000
Sept., 1907.. 73,816 1372 ~ 1333 ~ 65,786 50,000
Mar., 1908.. 66.8L2 1434 ~ 1579 ~ 12,256 30,000
Sept., 1908.. 76,085 1333 ~ 1437 ~ 22,080 5,000
This profit is stated gross, without deduction for wear
and tear. The amount thus written off is variable—more
or less, according to the size of the profits and the mood
of the directors. For the past half-year £10,64S is struck
off, bringing down the net profit to £11,432. The gross
profit is made up as follows (some previous results being
added for comparison)
Sept., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1906. 1907. 1908. 1908.
Silver-leadconcentrates£4o,3sB £51,243 £21,041 £13,070
Stored by-products (in-
stalments).. .. 6,218 10,000 nil. 8,311
Current by-products
(unsold) .. .. 3,049 3,113 2,765 3,156
Interest.. .. .. 1,430 788 602
. £49,625 £65,786 £24,594 £25,139
Less reclamations on
final adjustments 12,338 3,059
Profit .. ..• .. £49,625 £65,786 £12,256 £22,080
Current by-products, which are'being stored and may be
w-orth much or little in future, are being taken credit for
at the rate of Is. per ton ; this money (£3156) is of course
not received —it is merely a book entry and swells the
visible profit. The reclamations are amounts overdrawn
in a falling- metal market on account of concentrates
delivered in the previous half-year.
Block 10’s metal production for the half-year,
contained in concentrates, was 7789 J tons lead and
424,2660 z: silver. The gross profit, apart from
by-products, was £13,070, or at the rate of
£1 13s. per ton of lead. As lead averaged
±l3 2s. 5d., the cost of producing lead was all
the silver and £ll 9s. sd. per ton of lead. From that wear
and tear of plant must be deducted ; on the other
hand, everything got for by-products (zinc-bearing tail-
ings) is extra profit. The co. sold the bulk of its tailings
straight-out to the Zinc Corporation ; hut the latter co.
has been obliged to ask Block 10 to modify the terms. The
corporation now owes the co. £90,022, which is to be paid
by instalments spread over a long period. The future of
the corporation depends very largely upon the prices of
zinc and lead. This co.’s tailings are, however, unusually
rich, and if nothing can be done with them, nothing can
be done with any on the Barrier. It is satisfactory to
know that the Zinc Corporation is now doing very fair
work, and is apparently making a substantial profit. If
the metal markets keep even fair, there is no doubt that
its contract with Block 10 will be carried out.
No estimate of ore reserves is made by Block
10. The last, published in May, 1907, showed 702,000
tons; but another level, 100 ft. deeper, has been opened
up since then, with only moderate results ; and a level
150 ft. still deeper has recently got into poor ore. Even if as
much ore has been developed as has been extracted mean-
time, say 200,000 tons, the position of Block 10 is not
bright ; it would only have five years’ supply' exposed,
and it is very doubtful whether all of it can be got out.
Undoubtedly also the lode is pitching south ward-out of
the B. H. Prop. ; and Block 10 must be the next to lose it,
though at what depth cannot yet be told certainly. The
deepest level is at 1465 ft. ; perhaps the lode may last
two or three hundred feet below that.
* * ■* *
The Broken Hill miners, having shipped off
Tom Mann, after passing him a hint to moderate his
chain-clanking, have got down to business and told the
owners What they want. The wants boil down to four
things—a 44-hour week (that is, three four-hour shifts on
Saturdays, instead of the usual eight-hour shifts), a mini-
mum wage of 9s. per day instead of Bs. 71 d. (this only
applies to laborers), a minimum wage of 10s. for miners
on contract (there isn’t any minimum now for con-
tractors), and employment of only unionists. There are a
few other things, but they are only details as compared
with these. The men ask that the terms shall rule for
two years. So, far only the first meeting has been held,
and at that the men did all the talking ; then the
managers took the proposals away to work them out to
figures, and when the figures have been arrived at the
directors will chew them over, and after that there will
be parleying. There isn’t likely to be any serious trouble
on the wages question ; probably also the minimum wage
for contractors will be passed with some conditions. The
44-hour week, which is reckoned to mean about 8 per
cent, more pay for a given amount of work, will cause
more trouble. On the whole, it would be better for the
men if, instead of a 44-hour week, they could get the
abominable night shift (12 midnight to 8 a.m.) abolished
altogether. Night shift means day sleep ; and in an iron
hut in a Broken Hill summer, that is Gehenna. The
provision concerning employment of only union men will
probably get more notice from both sides than it deserves.
The system was in vogue for years at Broken Hill and
didn’t result in anything of much practical consequence
to either party.
» * * »
From Broken Hill: Events here have followed
one another hot-foot. A few weeks ago the situation
was tense enough to snap at any moment, and the miners’
spokesmen had the jumps badly. Now everything is
quiet, and the only people who seem to be worrying are
the mine managers. To them the combined unions’state-
ment of claim has been somewhat of a “ facer,”and there
are hardly two managers who agree as to how the pro-
posals ought to be taken. Some regard them seriously ;
others hold that if the whole of the increases asked for
were to go by the board the unions wouldn’t cry very
much over it. “No reduction of wages ”is what the men
will really stick out for, this section thinks. As for Tom
Mann, he has fizzled out like a penny cracker on Guy
Fawkes Day.
*•+*•*
It is certain, judging by the market, that the
public hasn’t yet realised how desperate things are getting
in the bottom levels of the Broken Hill Prop. There are
three blocks in the mine—Nos. 11, 12 and 13, running
from south to north in that order. Only in the southern-
most block do the bottom levels show anything at nil.
The north and middle blocks are a blank. And in the
south block (No. 11) things are getting very bad. Take
the last monthly report: “At the 1300 ft. level the north
drive was extended 37ft., both walls apparently showing
in the face ’’—which shows what a streak the lode is.
“The south drive is in mixed sulphides and
rhodonite ” —and the rhodonite will make most
of it valueless. “At the 1400 ft. level the ore in
the north drive, which has been followed on the
western wall, has cut out; a crosscut has been extended
west in country' rock ” —apparently that’s an end of the
ore at the 1400 ft. level at that point; yet that point is
only three or four hundred feet from the Block 10
boundary. On present appearances, the ore body will
pitch right out of the B. H. Prop.’s ground at between
1600 ft. and 1700 ft. Fortunately there is between five
and six years’ supply proved above 1400 ft. ; but five or
six years isn’t much to look forward to.
* . * * *
With lead at its present price, the British
Broken Hill mine could be worked at a profit ; but,
having', hung off so long, the directors are prepared to
wait a few' weeks more to see how labor matters pan out.
There is also a desire to see whether the improvement in
metals following on the Presidential election in the U.S.
is a mere market rig or a permanent thing. For the
whole of this year the management has been merely doing
a little exploration, and the co. has a good ass bfor its
last half-year’s expenditure in the fine lode at the 800 ft.
level. There doesn’t appear to be much above that in the
block of ground between Howell’s and Thompson’s shafts
(which are about 1000 ft. apart), but the ore is going
strongly underfoot.
Just as they were approaching the southern
boundary' of Block 10, Broken Hill, a nice patch of rich
sulphides was struck in the drive on the 1315 ft.
level. For about 350 ft. south from the main cross-
cut this level was very disappointing in the matter
of ore, the latter being narrow and uncertain. On the
north end of this level the ore body wnvs good, although it
pinched in one or two places. The average for the whole
length was, however, only 7ft. On the 1465 ft. level the
north drive has just reached a “pinch,” and the width,
which had been as much as 23ft., dropped to Bft. Still
even that isn’t so bad as the quality of the ore, w'hich con-
tinues of such a nature as to break the heart of the most
philosophical mill-man.
Broken Hill South is having expensive trouble
with the German ore-buyers who were taking its output
last year. Towards the close of the contract the Ger-
man people said that they weren’t badly in need of the
concentrates, so the co. left them lying on the floors.
Payment under the contract was to be made on the aver-
age price of metals during the month of delivery'.
Delivery had to be made on trucks. The South Co. wants
to be paid the average of the period when the concen-
trates were produced; the buy'ers say that they didn’t
take delivery then. As the markets slithered down while
the stuff was lying on the floors, the difference is some-
thing considerable. Disputes are, under the agreement, to
be settled by arbitration ; but there has been a deal of
trouble about the selection of an arbitrator, for the
buyers want a lawyer and the co. wants a commercial man.
« « * •*
Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd., had its adjourned
meeting in London lately', and for an hour or so the
directors and others talked and showed their utter in-
capacity for dealing with a problem like the one they
have in hand. The co. certainly did lately' hand over
control, more or less, to the Australian Mining and Gold
Recovery Co., and Shalcross, that co.’s Australian
manager, may possibly dig out aprocess ; but the mistake
that has been made all along has been in attempting to
fix upon a method of treatment in London. The whole
business has been idiotic. The co. has a rattle-trap
battery' at the mine, and relies upon that plant to do the
preliminary treatment; yet, though there isn’t a stamper
battery in London (not one of the tinpot metal-


You cannot
Control your
Executor
and you therefore want one com-
bining Strength and Security
with technical knowledge and
business ability, so that your
Estate will be safeguarded and
preserved for the benefit of your
heirs. This can be best ensured
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
2, 4 ®l O Spring Street,
Sydney.
Fraser ( Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
Required, a good gold, tin or
COPPER PROPERTY,
SUFFICIENTLY DEVELOPED FOR FLOTATION.
Reply with particulars to Private Box No. 630, General
Post Office, Melbourne.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, ever}’ small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste bf power; that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourhe, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
Wild Cat readers should get the Barrier
Miner, and read the series of articles on “The Broken
Hill Mines—Their Costs and Profits,” beginning Sep-
tember 19.*
■* * * *
A Suction Producer Gas Plant has recently
been erected at Messrs. Dorman Long’s Works, South
Melbourne. The Engine is capable of supplying 80b.h.p.,
and operates on the “ Otto ” cycle ; ISOr.p.m. ; fitted
with most recent , improvements ; two fly wheels 7ft. dia.
x llin. face and c.i. pulley 4ft. dia. x 16in. face ; exhaust
silencer ; air silencer; “Magneto ” ignition ; with variable
timing arrangement. The Producer with Evaporator is
fitted with firebrick and non-conducting outer lining, and
self-sealing doors for cleaning, feeding hopper fitted
with double closing arrangement, and hand-blower for
starting. The Scrubber is fitted with water spreader,
overflow pipes and seal pots, double doors for cleaning.
The Accumulator is of large size to reduce suction on
engine and to enable it to work on varying loads. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, in-
stalled this plant, and are now manufacturing these plants
complete.* [5
* * * *
The original “Balata” Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [3
The Insurance, Banking and Financial Re-
view, of London, in its August issue, commenting upon
the Society’s last annual report, writes: —“ At the period
in question, indeed, it was considered by some that the
Colonial Mutual was, to use an Americanism, ‘ Trying to
bite off more than it could chew.’ Time has proved,
however, that if the then four-year-old could go fast it
could also go sure, and its completion of £1,156,510 of
new Life business last year indicates that not only is the
energy of its younger days unabated, but that it retains
the confidence placed in it from the moment of its birth.”*
* « * *
Wherever iron of superior quality and excep-
tional tensile strength is required engineers specify the
famous best Yorkshire “Farnley” Iron. This iron is
made from refined pig iron, is puddled into practically
pure wrought iron, hammered and piled before rolling.
Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, have been appointed sole agents for the Farnley
Iron Co., Ltd., Leeds, and hold representative stocks of
“Farnley” bars at their warehouses in Sydney and
Fremantle, W.A.*
* * * *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Roekbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat: and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydnev.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteGo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * •
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
it * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberherg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS.—Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the. Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
* * * *
Realising that only the most modern form of
power can fill present day requirements, the Austral
Brick Co., which is starting extensive works at St. Peters,
Sydney, has placed an order with Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street,
Melbourne, for a 200-h.p. Korting Suction Gas Engine.
This is the only gas engine in which an impulse is given
with every stroke as in the steam engine ; and in Europe
and America, where it is very largely used, it has won a
great name for its certain starting, close governing and
even turning, which are the main factors of success for
electrical and mill driving. Gibson, Battle will send
catalogues on application.*
LOHMANN <a COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
BOCHUM UNION
Sole Agents for
Stsel Rails, Trucks, Points anti Crossings,
Large Stocks Always on Hand.
Turntables.
Importers of Tramway, Mining,
Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds, £1
lurgical works there owns such a thing), 50 tons of ore
were shipped to London for treatment. It was crushed
in a Huntingdon mil), and then experimented with ; as a
result, the Elmore oil process was adopted, and a three-
unit plant put up. The thing failed ; and, as explained
here months ago, Frank Elmore, who made the tests, put
the poor result down to the bad crushing in the rattle-
trap battery. The folly of spending about £lO,OOO on a
process on the strength of results got after the stuff had
been prepared in one way when on the mine it would
have to be prepared in another way, is simply colossal.
In all, about £25,000 has been practically frittered away
in “ management” of this kind, and of all the profit made
out of the oxidised ore the co. has now less than £30,000
left. At present it is undestood that Shalcross thinks
some modification of the Mount Morgan method may
answer, though it is quite clear the directors, or some of
them, haven’t any more idea what that method is than
the late Wild Man of Carcoar.
• * * *
From Cobar (N.S.W.): W. J. Loring, of
Bewick, Moreing and Co., was in Cobar lately having a
look at Mt. Drysdale and Queen Bee. If this firm takes a
hand on this field Cobar will be quite surprised some
morning to wake up and find itself moving.
Cobar Copper, Ltd. (Young Australia and
Mount Pleasant), controlled, like Burraga, Nymagee, and
Shuttleton, by W. H. Corbould, has closed down to keep
the others company. This co. would probably have met
with better success if it had confined its prospecting to
the Young Australian.
* * * »
Cyanide manager Chappel, of the Occidental,
Cobar, has already tackled the problem of a treatment
process for that co.’s sulphides, although it has quite a
quantity of free milling ore left. He has a small experi-
mental plant running. This co. doesn’t propose to wait
until its oxidised ores are done, and then shut down the
mine, and put ice to its head while it tries to think of
something, like the Fort Bourlte (Cobar Gold Mines)
crowd.
# # » *
Harden (N.S.W.) is tightening its hold on its
new lease of life. Last month’s revenue was £4292, and
working costs (including the regular tonnage charge for
development) amounted to £1931, leaving £2361 profit, of
which the regular dividend absorbs £1250. For three
months past the eastern section has been giving unusually
good results, as regards not only quality, but quantity
too. Work done there since the half-year ended (June 30)
has increased the reserves, notwithstanding the heavy
draft upon these stopes. And in the bottom level east,
though the hanging-wall shoot has gone underfoot, there
is now sft. of 345. quartz in the face on the footwall side,
with 18in. of the make not carried by the drive.
Kyloe, Adaminaby (N.S.W.), is raising good
ore from winzes sunk below No. 2 level. No. 1 winze at
55ft. proved 8 per cent, ore for a width of 4£ft. ; 8 tons
worth 11 per cent, and 14 tons worth 8 per cent, were
raised, as against 12 tons of 22 per cent, ore the previous
week from a depth of 48ft. Values have thus fallen off
considerably. No. 3 winze is down 40ft. and shows sft.
of ore ; 16 tons of 20 per cent, ore were raised, as com-
pared with 18 tons of 24 per cent, for the previous week.
The ore body does not, however, yield such rich
ore for the full width. These two winzes are
practically half way down to No. 3 level, and the
latter should soon be opened, for the shaft is at 290 ft.
The shaft carries a parallel vein expected to junction
with the main ore body. The body in No. 2 south level
has pinched considerably, and at 302 ft. from the shaft
there are only a few inches of poor ore. The main stope
produced 30 tons of good ore, so Kyloe is getting as
much ore from two winzes as from the main stope—
although the ore. is rich, the value doesn’t make up for
the ridiculously small output. No doubt things will
brighten up when No. 3 level is opened and connected
with the winzes ; and the hope of that is propping up
ordinary shares. The latter, however, only take the
second bite out of profits.
* “Jfr •V
There are threats of law and Costs in connection
with the Barrier, Wyalong (N.S.W.), and the recent
formation of the co. Some scrip-holders are now pre-
paring to take the dispute to the Equity Court.
* * * *
The Grafton copper mine, Cangai (N.S.W.), has
placed another furnace in commission, so the output of
matte should be increased. Last month a poor little 510
tons ore were treated for 112 tons of 47 per cent, matte,
which will be roasted and brought up to a high-grade
product before shipment. The reverbs use about 10 tons
of ore to a ton of copper, which is good extraction. Such
ore would stand a,cost of 50s. per ton for mining, smelt-
ing, roasting, etc., and still produce 60 per cent, matte
for £l5 a ton ; and working costs, as stated some time since
by Manager Mulligan, are considerably below 50s. But
the ore output for a co. of this size, and after all the
booming, is so wretchedly small. The mine is opening
up fairly well, and one stope has been carried a length of
200 ft. The lenses of ore are in places 7ft. wide and the
stuff is easy to flux. The future depends on whether the
lenses proved by tunnelling go down.
Though the S. Australian Government has had
a Bill prepared to deal with the purchase of a coal-mine
at Oessnock (N.S.W.), it is understood that the examina-
tion of the coal taken from the bore hasn’t pleased some of
the State’s experts any too well. It is a good long way to
carry coal from Oessnock down to Newcastle, at a cost of
(say) 2s. per ton delivered, and thence round by boat,
and thence by train all over S. Australia ; and there is a
doubt whether, for some of the desired purposes, the coal
found in this particular bore isn’t a bit too tender. So,
though no official reports have yet been made on the sub-
ject, some people are doing a long, hard think.
* * * *
Between January and October the gold-mining
dividends paid in Westralia amounted to £1,250,845,
making the total to date £18,733,423.
* * -tc tt
Last month the Westralian gold output was
136,380 fine oz., or 1860 oz. less than in September, and
13,7360 z. less than in October, 1907. The output for the
expired 10 months amounted to 1,372,3460 z., valued at
£1,372,346. The output since 1886 totals 19,735,5330 z.,
valued at £83,869,136. Kalgoorlie still accounts for two-
thirds of the gold produced.
* * • •»
On Sept. 30 Great Boulder Prop. (W. A.) had pro-
duced £5,977,592, and had paid £2,841,173 in dividends,
or nearly one-half of. the total production. Ore reserves
absolutely in sight on June 30 were 701,165 tons, of an
approximate cash value of £2,384,516. This estimate
shows that 50,000 tons more than the quantity crushed
was developed during the first half of the year.
* * * *
Lake View Consols (W. A. )ore reserves now stand
at 180,000 tons of 28s. 3d. ore, as against the 1907 estimate
of 158,000 tons of 28s. stuff. The principal features of
the past year’s operations have been the further develop-
ment of low grade ore in the lower levels and a strenuous
effort on the part of 8., M. and Co. to place the mine
further ahead of the mill, in which, to a small extent,
they have succeeded. The deepest workings are now
below 1900 ft., where prospects are promising.
* * # *
Ivanhoe (W. A.) is looking very prosperous at
1820 ft., where a drive 400 ft. long has proved the lode
to average about 50s. for the full width exposed. This is
a trifle above crosscut values, which run out at 465. lOd.
for a thickness of 44ft. At the end of June last the avail-
able cash assets of the co. totalled over £250,000, without
investments; so that, with an additional dividend value
of between £5 and £6 in sight, the Ivanhoe is on rather a
comfortable perch.
* * * 1t
Consulting Engineer Speak has spoken in regard
to the Boulder Perseverance (W. A.). He estimates that
in April the reserves totalled 450,390 tons of 7'29 dwt. ore.
This calculation excludes all ore below 1100 ft., and is
equal to a bit over two years’ supply, on the basis of the
present standard of 18,000 tons per month. He thinks,
however, that it is desirable to adopt a 7dwt. grade, in
which case he reckons there is a reasonable certainty of
getting a further year’s supply, making three in all, and
most probably there would be enough for four years. A
policy of energetic development is advocated ; also the
cutting down of next year’s dividend to 6d. By doing this
he reckons the co. will have plenty of funds for develop-
ment, and that at the end of the time everything in the
garden will have a much lovelier appearance than it has
at present. Word has since been received that the Board
has decided to follow out Speak’s recommendations.
Oroya-Brown Hill (W. A.) has issued a circular
on the subject of tailings retreatment, current prospects,
and other matters. Extensive sampling of the mountain-
ous dump on the Brown Hill lease shows that the middle
and lower portion contains the best values. It is, how-
ever, intended to treat the stuff as it comes, on the score
of cheapness. No new discoveries have been made in the
co.’s leases since the annual meeting in April last, and so
far all efforts to locate the extension of the rich shoot cut
off by an intrusion of country rock at the end of last year
have failed. As regards the Kalgoorlie Mint lease, which
the co. recently bought for next to nothing, the circular
naively remarks that the Central Boulder bore has been
picked up at. the No. 9 level in the Oroya north block,
and “it is believed that the extension of same at depth
will be found in the Mint.” To get into the latter lease,
the drill, which is alleged to have cut rich ore at 1500 ft.,
must have deflected considerably; but whether the
Oroya-Brown Hill directors came to this conclusion before
the deal was made is not stated. The odds are that they
did.
* * ■* m
Golden B.idge meeting will be held at Kalgoorlie
some time this month. For the half-year ended Septem-
ber 30 this co. crushed 13,983 tons, and recovered £28,937.
After setting aside £3204 for depreciation, the net profit
amounted to £14,803, and out of this sum two dividends
absorbing £12,938 were paid. Cash in hand, including
bullion in reserve, now amounts to £12,163 ; and the
reserves are estimated at 60,000 tons, of an average
recoverable value of 525. per ton. This gives a high per-
centage of profit in sight.
* * * *
Westralia Mount Morgans (W.A.) has got
another patch of ore. Of course, it is billed as an im-
portant development, and to impress the public a bit
more it is announced that a new Cassell’s filter plant is
to be installed, “ with a view of effecting a reduction in
the cost of slimes treatment and permitting of large
bodies of hitherto unpayable ore being brought within
the payable margin.” But stereotyped rigmaroles like
this are getting monotonous. Is the mine ever likely to
earn money for shareholders ? That’s the point.
* * * •
Great Tower Hill (W. A.) is getting a move on.
The tributors have received notice to cease crushing at
the co.’s mill, the occupiers of various humpies on the
property have been told to quit, and other things are
happening. All this is taken locally to mean that the co.
has found backing in London, and is about to make
a fresh start. Meantime local creditors are waiting to
hear something to their advantage.
“Quartzite”: Par. (B. 8/10/’08) re “Boulder”
Hamilton reporting on Hainault treatment plant and
“ suggesting several improvements with a view to
economy,” must surely be a joke. Here is a comparison
of the Hainault and Boulder costs for September.
Hainault, 6257 tons treated for a total expenditure of
£5921, or 19s. per ton ; Great Boulder, 16,671 tons treated
fora total expenditure of £23,723, or 28s. 51d. per ton.
The actual tonnage mined at the Hainault was 10 per
cent, more than that treated, the balance being sorted
out and tipped as not good enough to pay for treatment.
Same par. suggests that the Hainault plant was
designed to treat more than it is now doing, a
condition unfavorable to cheap working on the
principle that engines work most economically
when fully loaded. Present management cannot be
blamed for the plant, as that was all fixed up in Moss’
time to nick in with the 240,000 tons of ore reserves which
he stated existed. (That shares fell from 305., at the time
this estimate was published, to 7s. when the plant had
been running a few months is worth recalling.) The
figures quoted show that on less than two-fifths of the
tonnage Hainault’s costs per ton are just two-thirds of
Boulder’s. The idea of Hamilton telling Hay how to do
things cheaply suggests, therefore, George Keid advising
Tommy Burns how to wallop Johnson, or Judkins giving
Earnshaw a tip for the Cup.
* * * *
Shareholders in the Lancefield (W.A.) met in
London on October 12 and approved by weight of voting
power of the Board’s proposal to raise further working'
capital by the issue of 100,000 preference shares; and, at
a statutory meeting subsequently held at Kalgoorlie, the
directors were empowered to issue 66,666 of such shares
at 10s., and to hold the remaining 33,334 in reserve.
* * ■*
The first return from the Karangahake (W. A.)
showed a profit of £l3OO or thereabouts ; but, as pre-
viously mentioned, the tonnage treated was above the
average in the mine.
* ♦ * *
Miners and owners at Green bushes (W.A.) are
at loggerheads over the wages question, and the Arbitra-
tion Court is to be called in. The owners say that they
are paying too much, and they want a sliding scale
adopted, based on the price of tin. It is the old trouble.
When there was cream the owners didn’t mention a
sliding scale. They didn’t slide worth a cent in those
times. Now there’s only skim milk they cordially invite
the men to “ be reasonable ” and share that watery diet.
The crowd that played the game with the
“ Dook ” and “ Dookess ” groups at Bamganie (Vic.) have
mostly been buried with their aristocrat friends. Last
lingering relic of all is the Duke of Wellington, where
even tributors don’t earn enough gold to keep directors’
fees and legal manager’s salary going. The mine has
made into a squib of the first order, for at 480 ft. there
isn’t a trace of gold in a reef wide enough for a city foot-
walk. Directors may be right to keep the mine open,
because there is always hope ; but it is so small a hope
that it would probably be the best thing for shareholders
to sell everything and write off losses.
• * * »
Hie jacetf The plant of Glenfine South, Pit-
field (Vic.), has been sold off and carted away : £30,000
gone for £3OOO. Nothing left but poppet legs and heaps
of sand and slum. So ends another of Alec Peacock’s
companies; and its demise means the death knell of
mining on the Pitfield Plateau. Few Victorian claims
have had such lively jinks in so short a life. When Jonah
Ward hit quartz while driving for the lead, “ speakers ”
reckoned up the gold in the formation at a trace. The
battery record was an ounce, and the claim jumped from
an alluvial mediocrity to the dignity of a swell
reefing proposition. Next the new shaft hit the top
of a vast make of rich quartz, and shares
boomed towards £l2. Adelaide got the fever, and
Victorian holders made money by filling their neighbors’
wallets with scrip at top rates. Now the scrip is posted
up as a warning to all and sundry to steer clear of Bal-
larat. The last boost was on the alluvial, and the nasty
taste of it lingers still. Nothing can be more deserved
than that the Glenfine South should be scrapped, and its
memory blotted out.
♦ * * *
Litigation over Welsh and Slaters, Rocky Flat
(Vic.), is at an end ; so off the slate goes a nasty mining
smudge. Terms were £3OOO cash, which, on 32,000 shares
in the co., works out at Is. lOd. per share. Who pays
Costs? Still, as the case did not get before the Bench,
these won’t be heavy. Forfeited scrip was bought in for
a mere song by two or three, who thus get a nice div.
back. Justice Higgins’ finding over the Wheal Ellen
case and the basting he gave Peacock rattled some of the
promoters when fight was being talked. With their
ruffles smoothed down, the rest was easy. It may be as
well that dirty linen was not washed, for mining in Vic-
toria just now blushes so over the Wheal Ellen episode
that confusion would follow another awkward lawsuit.
* * * *
Brilliant Deep, Charters Towers, crushed a
trial lot of 100 tons from the 2413 ft. level for an average
of £3 6s. 4d. per ton. This is considered satisfactory,
although it doesn’t verify the rich assays from the bore hole;
so shares got a set back to 4s. 6d. The mine has a good
chance of testing this formation, for the underlie has
been sunk to a greater depth. The reef is over 2ft. w’ide,
and carries a fair amount of mineral. Brilliant Extended,
next door, has been making a profit, so things are a little
more cheerful for the Brilliant Deep, which has swallowed
up so much capital.
* « * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, has
had a crushing of 167 tons from No. 6 level of the hanging
wall reef for £2680. This pans out about £l6 a ton.
From No. 7 level on the same reef the management
treated nearly the same quantity of stone (169 tons) for
£5lB ; so, although the reef in the lower level is wider,
there is a tremendous slump in quality as the stone goes
down. A leading stope has been started on both these
levels. Just at present Nos. 7 and 8 levels on the footwall
side of the big Day Dawn formation are looking well. No.
8 improved after passing through a bar of diorite, and the
rise is also showing better prospects. Ail the same, a
long stretch of poor and unpayable ground has been
proved in the deepest level yet prospected. Such ex-
tremes as 10s. a ton from No. 7 footwall level and £l6 a
ton from No. 6 hanging wall level indicate the kind of
show the New Brilliant Freehold is likely to prove. The
Mexican has had much the same kind of experience.
No. 6 level proved a short length of heavy mineral stone,
but No. 5 proved a long stretch of unpayable ground ;
and this leaves the extent of the good stone discovered in
No. 6 in doubt.
* * * *
The Amalgamated Monkland and Glanmire
Deep Mines, Gympie (Q.), is formed in 80,000 shares of ss.
each, 20,000 being issued as fully paid-up. It proposes to
carry on the work done by the old Nos. 2, 3 and 4 Glan-
mire, No. 1 North Glanmire, and Great Eastern and
Glanmire. In all, 56 acres will be covered, but the co.’s
rights only come up to the 850 ft. level. The considera-
tion is an equal division of the paid-up shares in the new
co. among the four amalgamating cos. The North Glan-
mire (old No. 2) shaft is to be sunk to a depth of 1500 ft.
to test the ground below the Monkland top slates. Gold
has not been found in the area below 480 ft. The cost is
estimated at £6 10s. per foot, and the new Minister for
Mines has promised to consider the question of Govern-
ment aid on a £ for £ basis. The presence of certain
well-known reefs on the property gives encouragement
to the enterprise, but so far as the subsidy is concerned
a good deal will depend on the opinion of the Govern-
ment Geologist, who is to report shortly.
• « * *
Why the sharp rise in Molloys (Q.) during the
past couple of weeks? There are eager enquiries after
the scrip at prices between Bs. and 95., and these from
people closely in touch with the mine; though it is
absurd to give that price for ordinaries when pref.
shares are quoted at only 12s. It looks therefore
like a market “squeeze.” True, the possibilities of
the timber concessions are credited with some of the
improvement ; latest reports give the stock of timber
on hand at the depot at 700,000 ft. Nothing has been
disclosed at the mine to warrant any rise, though
certainly the improved copper market makes things
better all round. The short smelting campaign just com-
pleted resulted in a production of 198 tons metal from
2470 tons ore, together with material from a general
clean-up. Of this 2150 tons of mine ore averaged between
6 and 7 per cent. The directors have decided on a go-slow
policy, intending to bring development to such a stage as
will ensure lower working costs when treatment starts
again next year. The railway service is also being reduced.
* * * *
Queensland Exploration Co., Cloncurry, is re-
porting better monthly returns from the blast furnace,
which the manager says is due to the good sulphide ore
(6 per cent.) above the 250 ft. level. During September
1367 tons ore yielded 170 tons matte, containing approxi-
mately 82 tons copper. Two reverbs, have also been at
work, but wood fuel is becoming expensive, and these
furnaces may have to close down. With the railway so
handy it pays to ship 48 p.c. matte south for treatment,
difference in the cost of labor and fuel counterbalancing
the increased total freight on the bigger tonnage. If the
blast furnace holds together the returns should continue
good for a time, as the 6 per cent, sulphide is helped out
by a limited quantity of rich oxidised ore. The weak
feature is that nothing is said about costs ; but with lodes
3ft. wide interspersed with barren patches of rock there
can’t be much profit. The main shaft is 260 ft. deep, and
the length of lode proved at the 250 ft. level is about
150 ft. This old show was famous a lifetime since for huge
nodules of native copper and rich oxides. At present it
has much expensive development work to consider.
* * *■ *
Lewis’s last-received copper report estimates
that for the first eight months of the year copper imports
into Europe amounted to 293,600 tons, as compared with
206,300 tons for the corresponding period of 1907. Of
this lot 186,200 tons (as compared with 101,400 tons) came
from the States. The consumption in England, accord-
ing to the same authority, was 55,000 tons, as against
37,700 tons, and in France 43,400 toils, as against 33,800
tons ; while in Germany, up to of July, it was
89,800 tons, as compared with 68,800 tons. Lewis’s report
reckons that the placing of contracts for the electrifica-
tion of German railways and (.he expansion of consump-
tion in the States tend to improve the copper situation,
though the increase in United States’ exports is a very
depressing feature.
It has been wired to the West that Adelaide
has had its fill of Norseman flotations and doesn’t want
any more. What with Pathway Hills, Mararoa pups,
Princess Royals and other rickety ventures which are
never likely’’ to get past the stage of screwing calls out of
shareholders, the wonder is that the trustful people in
the Holy City have not been full up before.
•*'***
The Gold Estates of Australia, Ltd., which has
land holdings in the West, copper prospects in Tasmania,
shares in the Great Northern coal mine (N.S.W.), and a
variety of interests elsewhere, has issued another annual
report. The co. was reconstructed in 1903, when the
capital was reduced by one-half and the value of share
interests marked down considerably. Despite this drastic
step, £19,113 has since been written off for depreciation,
which doesn’t say much for the directors’ luck in select-
ing investments in return for their £2OlB in fees. Net
profits for the past five years, deducting, this year’s loss
of £3996, are alleged to be £12,772, out of which two divi-
dends absorbing £8750 have been paid. But from the
losses that have had to be written off, one would judge
that actually’ there haven’t been any’ net profits at all.


EDUCATION BY POST
v.*
m
EEH
f High Salaries await our
students of Shorthand, Type-
writing-, Bookkeeping, Ac-
countancy, Electrical Engi-
neering, <Stc. “Home Study,”
postfree. Stott&Hoare’s Busi-
ness College, Moore St, Sydney
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. ...
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
“Post Your Order
Direct
to
Us!
It does not matter where you live—thousands of miles away,
perhaps—yet you can obtain our Catalogue, which enables you to
secure the Best of Clothes, etc., at the most reasonable prices.
Smart Sac Suits, to your order, from 50/- upwards. Ready-to’-
Wear Clothing for tropical or cold climates, Boots and Shoes,
Shirts to order and Ready-for-wear, Pyjamas, Dressing Gowns, Hats’
Caps, Collars, Ties, Umbrellas, Leather Goods of all kinds, Uni-
forms, Ladies’ Tailor-made Costumes. Send a post card forCatalogue.
Now! Absolute satisfaction is guaranteed or money refunded!
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Werrimee ” discourses on cedar :
The town of Casino (N.S.W.) practically owes its birth
to the red cedar. Half the houses had bullock jokes and
jmkers around them at one time, and you would see 50
working bullocks about the grassy streets to one milking
cow. The first storekeepers dealt in cedar. The main
skidway, where the logs were rafted, was just below' the
town. All the logs, however, were not brought down by
team. Hundreds were merely spare-chained out of the
scrubs to the nearest bank, and there left until rain put
a sufficient fresh in the river to carry them down to tidal
waters, where they were blocked by a cordon of 100- s
stretched from bank to bank. They were simply levered
into the flood and floated away in single file,' or else they
were left on the low lands whence the first fresh
would wash them away. When all were launched a man
followed in a boat to release those that became stranded
or fast against snags and trees, and to muster up any
that had strayed into little arms and reaches. This was
a pleasant trip, full of excitement and adventure. The
stream was strewn with fallen timber, and wound like a
serpent through dense scrubs ; and there u-ere many
small rapids to shoot and whirlpools to negotiate. With
his dog in the stern and his gun at hand for wild ducks
and pigeons, the boatman spun merrily along till night-
fall, when he made his fire and boiled his billy on the
bank. He was off again at sunrise, down a gradually
widening river. Scores of logs were lost, despite his watch-
fulness, and some can be seen to-day rotting in the scrubs
and others resting high up in the forks of trees.
Some of these wasted logs would be worth quite a pile to-
day. I saw a squared log pass through Casino, the
measurements of which were 12ft. x 12ft. x 12ft. The tree
had such a monstrous girth that the timber-getters had
to cut it into short lengths to handle it. I didn’t see
the saws they used, but I reckon they must have been
somewhere about 18ft. long.
A feature of the early cedar days on the Richmond
were the sawpits. These, now seldom seen, were at work
in many places, and the pitsawyer was a tradesman whose
A FAVORITE.
THE CUSTOMER: “Sixpence a dozen! Now, how
is it that the Chinaman lets me hare apples
every bit as good as those for fourpence!"
THE HAWKER: “ Well, I dunno, lady. P'raps
'e's taken a liking to yer."
services were in good demand. The sawnit is a lorn,
narrow exoav.UoS, s ™,rall,"™d,
.n"'"‘ r ad‘J'"'o„ ,IO Sp Pl "?h. o 'low" l S Sw"""
“ the.., and out P „p wi,h , *,peSS ... »„ tk S
by two men, one standing on the log and the other in the
Pit. It was slow, arduous work, consequently sawn
timber was expensive. Till recently the remains of one
pit could be seen almost in the heart of Casino. Many of
the houses were built wholly of cedar (cut in pits). The
fences and palings round town lots were of cedar-
farmers’ houses and barns and cowbails were built of it •
and the common means of crossing the river was by
means of a flat-bottomed punt made of cedar planks, or a
catamaran—two or three cedar logs lashed together.
Even Bullocky Bill’s tucker box was solid cedar. Making
these tucker boxes, which had to be dovetailed together,
was a local industry. I have seen carpenters take huge
scantljngs and planks out of old houses to use for furni-
ture, and replace them with other woods. The present
value of the trees destroyed in the clearing of some scrub
farms would almost buy those places.
Paragraphs from the report of Captain
J. H. Schluter, who has the job of patrolling the
northern beche-de-mer grounds in the Queensland
Government ketch Melbidir—just by way of
showing how the pleasant, courteous Jap acts
when he thinks nobody is looking:—
One morning at the break of day, I sighted a boat in
Frincess Charlotte Bay, and, on boarding her, I found it
to be the ketch Mona, with a Japanese in charge. On
looking down the hold, I saw 12 naked natives huddled
together without a covering of any description, it being
winter time. None of these natives were signed on
articles. Five of them were children of about 10 years and
under. I then took the children on the Melbidir, landed
them at their home, and ordered the Jap to follow me to
lhursday Island, where I reported the matter to the
local Protector, who prosecuted the Japanese.
t t n a ,". otller occasion I landed on Forbes Island, where
1 found four native women, the pick of the Pascoe River
who were brought to this isolated island for immoral
purposes by a Japanese, and, as far as I could learn from
the women, they had been there about four or five weeks,
lhe Japanese had left some flour and tobacco for them,
and gone out to the Barrier IJeef. The Japanese would
come in about once a month. I took the women back to
their home on the Pascoe River, and proceeded to
lhursda.v Island, where I reported the matter to the
local 1 rotector, who prosecuted the Japanese on his
return to port.
“ Gilrooney”: Just now the State-owned
and State-managed orange and lemon grove at
1 era Bore, on the dry Wanaaring-road, eight
miles west of Bourke (N.S.W.), is a picture of
green and gold. There are 30 acres in the grove,
and something like 3000 trees—mostly orange
trees. The scorched and glaring Never-Never
desert stretches away indefinitely all around, and
I era is indeed an oasis in a dry and dreary land.
It is about 11 years since this Garden of Para-
dise was started ; to-day its oranges are among the
ve J7>?est in the world. At the recent London,
exhibition they secured first prize against
all competitors; besides this they invari-
ably topped the markets in America, and
during “ Ffeet Week ” in Sydney 1 noticed
<i i er ‘, 1 . , ,re oranges ”in one shop window marked
A/r S "> ■r " § er oze P ” —luscious fruit from No
Man s Land, which is popularly supposed to grow
only oig droughts and bleaching bones. The
oranges are singularly free from disease—this in
spite of the fact that the grove is palpably under-
manned. The manager has only two assistants
and to properly work and attend to 30 acres of
profit-paying trees requires at least half-a-dozen
me *G i °y the time the oranges are pulled,
graded, packed and sent away to market there
isn t much daylight left in which to take pre-
cautions against the thousand and one diseases
to which the golden fruit is heir. Date palms
j , oh ves S row luxuriantly at the Bore,
and those 30 acres of land and 3000 orange
trees constitute the best 3030 arguments I know
.* n f a Y or irrigation. For, whatever may be
said against bore water as a fertilising agency, I
am satisfied that it will grow the best oranges in
the world and a whole lot of other desirable
things beside. Just why the country west of the
Darling River isn’t mostly an orange garden, with
date palms and olives bordering the roadways, is
one of those annoying problems I have never been
able to solve.
* * • •
(i Silas Snell ”: I have no doubt Bulletin
“ Aboriginals ” have struck some dead slow men,
bUt L P Ju Se ” t e ’ of Catea-t, as the latest comer
in the Commonwealth. Cope lived just down
the creek from Armstrong’s, and had seen
‘Meliar Armstrong grow from a hobblede-
hoy of a girl into a staid woman of 26, and for
seven years had been making a tired sort of
pretence of courting her. When she was 26
lie called round one morning and watched
old Armstrong turning up the vegetable
garden for two solid hours. Then he said •
“I’™ wantin’ t’ see Meliar fer a minit.”
Whatcher wanter see Meliar fer?” asked
Armstrong. Cope scratched his head. “I’m
thinkin of askin’ her t’ marry me,” he
said. “ Yer jist too late,” Armstrong replied,
continuing his digging, “ the girl’s bin married
a year. She married Colter.” Colter was
Armstrong’s neighbor on the off side. “I
never noticed it,” was Cope’s only comment.
1 ive years later Cope called on Meliar again,
at her own house this time. Freeland was
there. Freeland stayed to tea, so did Cope.
Cope remained till 10 o’clock, and as Free-
land showed no sign of leaving, Cope came
down to business with an amazing turn of
speed. “They tell me Colter’s dead,” he
said. “Why,” exclaimed Meliar, “that’s
moreen two years ago.” “Yes, maybe about
that, Cope continued. “ Anyhow, I’ve come
to ask veh t’ marry me.” “Marry you?”
yelled Freeland. “Why, you idiot, she’s
married to me ! ” “ We’ve been married quite
six months,” said Meliar. Cope sighed and
took up his hat. “Six months?” he said.
V-, ? fc , missed yeh by the skin o’ me teeth,
didn tI ? ” Then he went home.
Some Australian sheep-shearing records,
supplied by Mr. J. Leahy, secretary of the
Machine Shearers’ Union. These records show
the amazing rapidity with which the expert
shearer extracts jumbuck from his valuable over-
coat :
Hand-shearing (blades) : Jack Howe, at Alice Downs,
Blackall, Queensland, in 1892. Number of sheep : 321
Time : Bhr. 20min. 1
Machine-shearing : Jim Power, at Barenya, Lands-
borough River, Queensland, in 1892. Number of sheep:
315. Time : 81ir. 15min.
Both the above records, it will be noticed, have
stood for 16 years. However, this year at Alice
iJow n s, Blackall, Queensland, Ted Dean divested
286 jumbucks of their clothing in 8 hours lOmin.
Dean also averaged 255 for four consecutive days.
Mi. Leahy states that shearing machines were
first introduced into Australia in 1888, the first
sned at which they were installed being on Dunlop
fetation, near Louth, Darling River. The Bul-
letin has been requested to lay the ghost of a
bush argument with some reliable figures; it
accordingly advances the above lot, and hopes that
not more than 49 correspondents will rise up with
better ones.
HER BEST BOY.
MISSIONER (as a clincher): “Now. look into
your own heart, my dear, and what, do you find there?"
ROSE (defiantly): “Jim, of course, every time!”
“Karl” : Isn’t it nearly time that some-
one arose and smote the lunatics who so fiercely
acclaim the wisdom of the bee. Bees certainly
have the faculty of finding their way home for
some considerable distance, and also a habit of
putting a bit of tucker on one side for Sundavs,
but their foolishness sticks out so conspicuously
where any real intelligence is' required
that it obscures their little bit of in-
stinct. How often may they be seen
hanging by their toenails on to a bottle
of jam, and gazing plaintively and
uselessly through the glass at the
contents thereof ! Also they will
absorb phosphorus from rabbit-poison
till further orders. They go to the
tubs or drums in which the poison is
stored, for the sake of the sugar mixed
with it, and ta,ke home the phos-
phorus, if they live long enough, and
with it they kill the larvae and young
bees, and assassinate, decimate and
manslaughter the queen. The ground
around the tub may be strewn with dead
bees, but it doesn’t seein to arouse their
curiosity in the least. Again, bees may
often be seen on the beach, sucking up
water from the wet sand. Presently,
a wave comes up, and there is frantic
need of the Bee Saving Brigade. On a
bright day, scores of drowned bees may be
seen floating in little pools near the rocks, pathe-
tic evidence of the folly of an over-rated i nsect.
* * * *
Southland (M.L.) has a youngster who’ll
take a lot of stopping when Maoriland’s enemy
comes along. He was out rabbit-shooting with a
surreptitious gun, when the thing blew off and the
contents got into his arm. But a trifle like that
wasn’t going to spoil his sport. He just reloaded
the rifle and went on rabbit killing. At last the
pain of his damaged arm made him dizzy, and he
fell, and as he fell the gun went off again. This
time the contents went into his leg. You can
stalk fur with one arm, but not with a solitarv
leg, so a sorely disappointed kid plugged home
again, and only dropped when he reached the
doorstep. A search party was just starting out
with guns to look for the bushrangers who had
nearly slain the family’s son and heir when the
infant came out of his faint and explained things.
<4 X.P.D.” on the Papuan “medicine
man ” :
In saying- that the wizard “ is not made a victim to the
superstitions of his fellow-men,” but “ is invariably the
most infernal villain in the vicinity,” “ Machete” is right
and also wrong. The sorcerer who says he is a sorcerer
is obviously a fraud, and preys terribly on the com-
munity. He very richly deserves the few months in “ numa
karabuti ” that the Government gives him when he’s in-
formed on. Making sorcery a punishable offence in
Papuan Courts was an action of the “Oocoanut Billy”
Government, which, in this respect, was 20 years ahead'of
Australian legislation, for in Australia the palmist
and the person who shoves herself into a misfit
trance still float. Jaupota, on the Papuan N.-E. coast,
once harbored a sorcerer who strengthened his’
hanky-panky with imported ideas. He said he
was Abraham, preached about Hell mostly, and took
up collections under threats of brimstone. The then
Administrator was another Presbyterian, and the un-
authorised Calvinist got six months'.
When the unsophisticated N.E. coast man doesn’t feel
NO PLACE LIKE HOME.
HUNGRY WILLIE: “ Where’s the boss?”
WAITRESS : “He’s just gone home to dinner!”
well, the sorcerer diagnoses a beetle in the epigastrium,
or something like that, pretends (with appropriate
“ business”) to extract the creature, and produces it as
warrant for his fee. At Wedau, stronghold of the Angli-
can Mission, the Rev. Albert Maclaren once tried to con-
vince the natives that this was all my eye. At the critical
moment, however, the village wizard operated on Mac-
laren for caterpillar on the brain, and sorcery “ went up
one.”
On the other hand, a perfectly' innocent man will often
be blamed for having caused death by sorcery. The
accuser is nearly always the local medico, and the accused
a capitalist belonging to another tribe. If he escapes
Samarai Gaol, the relatives of the deceased will send him
to glory instead. It is a cold job to be a compulsory
wizard in Papua.
STRUCK OIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You dig for gold and you plough for wheat
(For wheat and gold you must barter toil),
When treasure is buried at your feet.
Be wise, m3' children, and bore for oil.
You tend the flock for a withered year,
And face the mortgage and fight the drought—
Or else grow corn and get half an ear
(Earth’s gift of oil needs but pouring out).
You milk the cow till your soul is numb,
And your heart is trampled in the soil,
But up from the depths the great jets come—
Be wise, my children, and bore for oil.
The herd will die and the flock will stray,
The gold will vanish, the wheat will rust.
The fields are bare at the close of day,
And the useless sickle falls in the dust.
Nature is harsh with the sons of men,
Vain is your striving and vain your toil;
Give up the plough for the drill, and then
Be wise, my children, and bore for oil.
N.S.W.
E.F.B.
A PARDONABLE OFFENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas several chaps from down the plain,
With Billy Blake and young Jim Farr,
Who staked their wages on their luck
At euchre in old Sayers’ bar ;
Till Farr’s queer play aroused dispute,
And soon plain talk was flying free ;
When Sayers, peaceably inclined,
Offered to act as referee,
And gave his verdict: “ Well, you know ”
(With a conciliatory glance),
“ Young Jimmy certainly revoked,
But, Lord ! it was his only chance.”
VIC.
SYD. C.


STOPS THE PAIN INSTANTLY.
The pain caused by a burn or scald will be instantly re-
lieved if Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment is applied. A
most useful household remedy to always have on hand.
Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
Back up a sewer and you will poison the
whole neighborhood. Clog up the liver and bowels,
and your system is full of undigested food, which
sours and ferments —this means indigestion, head-
ache, bad breath, yellow skin and everything that
is horrible. Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets quickly stop fermentation in the stomach,
and they make the liver lively, tone up the bowels
and set the whole machinery going.
Worked
Oat
; ii!i>
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
We are deducting 20 per cent, discount from the English Wholesale Catalogue Prices of the actual makers
of Sheffield’s First Quality Electro-Silver.
A 1 Quality (the best). A 1 Quality (the best made).
Makers’ List Prices. Our Sydney Prices.
Table Spoons .. ‘ .. £1 15 0 less 20 per cent, discount, £lB 0 dozen.
Table Forks 1 15 0 „ „ „ „ 18 0
Dessert Spoons 1 8 0,,,, ~ ~ 1 2 6 „
Dessert Forks 1 8 0,,,, ~ ~ 1 2 6 „
Tea Spoons 14 0 ~ ~ ~ „ 11 3 „
THIS
quality will wear like Silver for 40 years. Compare prices—you will And them over 25 per cent,
lower than those of any house (wholesale or retail) in Australia. A and, B Qualities at propor-
tionately lower prices.
PLAIN FICURES
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“J.R.”: Harry Stockdale (B. 5/11/’08)
justly complains of Major Dove’s remarks about
bushinen and scouting. Both seem to confound
two totally different things—scouting in war, and
the faculty of finding one’s way in wild and un-
known country. War isn’t usually carried on in
wild or unknown countries, and therefore the
qualities of the bushman are not particularly in
request for scouts, who generally have a road of
some sort under their feet, and inhabited places
quite handy. On the other hand, it is nonsense
to talk of maps and education having anything to
do with efficient scouting. It is notorious that
most of the British difficulties in S’Africa were
traceable, not to inability to read maps, but to the
scarcity of maps to read. The scout’s business is
to see, if possible, without being seen. Some
foolish persons have been led away by some of
Barnurn Powell’s books, and persuaded to believe
that the soldier-scout works like Fenimore Cooper’s
lied Indians, doing miracles of “tracking,” for
instance. What is wanted for the work is a
good memory for localities, but, more than that,
natural quickness of apprehension and quickness
of eye. Here is what the German General Jarrv,
the first Commandant of the Staff College, says
about the qualities of scouts, in a book on “Out-
posts ” :
An officer of light troops should endeavor to know indi-
vidually the men under his command, so that he may
employ them in the way most suited to their degree of
intelligence and courage. One man will be most fitted
for openly reconnoitring the enemy ; that is, approaching
him so as to be able, with some exactness, to observe his
position and strength. Another will be hest fitted for
“ watching,” or observing well without being seen.
Another will be skilful at gaining intelligence from the
country people. Another will have a talent for laying
ambushes, etc., and the necessary skill for seizing
prisoners without compromising himself.
That is a pretty long list of scouting virtues,
written by a man who was in his grave long
before Baden-Powell was born. As an officer of
the old Quartermaster-General’s Department in
war, I have had a good deal to do with scouting,
and the occasions on which maps are of the least
use to scouts are very few. A map on a larger
scale than an inch to the mile would be too cum-
brous to carry, and on such a map a day’s march
would be from 12in. to 20in. long, while a chain-
wide road would be a line l-80th inch wide, and
houses, if shown at all, would be the tiniest dots.
The bushman is a good scout if he is sharp
enough. The best scouts in the British army are
U.. U . .... V l
OPEN HOUSE.
MURPHY: “ You had letter come inside, Father,
it's too wet to talk out here.”
“Smell ” : The cocky sets a parlously high
toil-ideal before his hireling. I found a job in a
cow-family recently. The conversation centred
on the merits of my predecessor, who had dropped
dead of heart failure, or something, while at the
cow-bails. “Ah!” said my employer, regret-
fully, “he tvuz a feller. I never saw one to work
like him. Out before the sun was up, and he’d
graft on till 10 at night if there was a moon. The
poor feller even made a bag suit so’s ’ec’u’d plough
in tlier rain. And wot bit o’ money ’e ’ad cornin’
to ’im ’e d give ter the kids ter buy froot and
lollies and sich like. Ah ! He was ther man. I’ll
never get another like ’im.” And he shook his head
despondingly. Here the old lady (who was suffer-
ing from a black eye—caused by the heat, she said)
asked how I liked the damper. As I was trying
to hit on a plausible lie whereby to hide my loath-
ing of the horrid stuff, she went on : “ Me ’and’s a
bit out with the damper. Poor Bill wuz a
great feller at rnakin’ it. In fact, any kind o’
household graft—scrubbin’, washin’ up, manglin’,
and so on —come easy to him. Ah, he wuz a loss
if ever there wuz one.” And she sighed gustily,
and glowed in her emotion like an over-ripe
tomato with a black spot on it. After tea the
cocky gave me further instances of poor dead
William’s marvellous capacity for manual labor.
We then went to bed. Somewhere about two in
the morning, feeling thirsty, I wandered outside
in search of water. I was just returning when my
employer shoved his head out of the window.
“Ah!” he said, “you’re ther feller fer me.
Blessed if yer don’t remind me o’ poor ole Bill.
If there’s anything I do like it’s a’ early riser.
Wait on ! I’ll be out in ’arf a minute.” But I
didn’t wait—l grabbed my boots and fled.
A BID FOB FAME.
“ Wot yer doin' about that bloke o’ yours, Millie?"
“ Well, I dunno whether to yet a divorce an ’ go on the stage, or sue ’im for maintenance an'
yet me portrait in the papers.”
“ Agricola ” : Many people have found
reason to wonder where parrots find breeding
places. Their nests are not very commonly dis-
covered, and they lay not more than three or four
eggs in a clutch. Yet their numbers are incal-
culable. In the fruit season the
’keets and rosellas may be seen coming
in scores of thousands from the Cum-
berland orchards every evening about
dusk, and heading for the Blue Moun-
tains. Early in the morning they may
be heard screaming on their way back
to add another grey hair to the head of
the peach-farmer. It is my opinion
that in the breeding season the majority
of them make for the dense forest.
One of the largest timber reserves in
N.S.W. is the Bago forest, extending
between Batlow and Tumbarumba, in
the southern tableland. Much of the
timber there is messmate, which has
many holes and hollow spouts. There,
about November, the ground is strewn
with egg-shells cast out of the nests.
For seven miles last November I
passed along the road through the
forest, and was in sight of broken
egg-shells all the time. When it is
borne in mind that this forest covers
something like 70,000 acres, and that
there is no reason for the nests to be
built mostly near the road, one may
dimly estimate the size of the annual
parrot crop thereabouts.
Talking in his annual report about the
generally fine physique of his charges, the Superin-
tendent of Aboriginals at Trubanam, on the
Mitchell River, North Queensland, mentioned
that one of his little chaps died lately. He was a
native of the Nassau River, “ stood 7ft. 2in., and
was built in proportion.”
•**•*•*%
“J.G.”: “Oby” is right as to “little
country shows ” (B. 15/10/’Cl8). The average
country show consists of (1) a few second or third
rate live stock exhibits, (2) a quota of stale buns
and scones, cooked by the local cockyesses, (3) a
circus entertainment. The show of agricultural
or pastoral exhibits at these much-boomed and
State-subsidised institutions wouldn’t draw a
thirty-bob gate on their own. The shows keep
their heads above the waters of overdraft by run-
ning circus events, such as hurdle jumping by crocks
ridden by both male and female riders (the lady
riders riding both sideways and astride), pony
races, trotting races, and other events of the sort.
They amuse the crowd, but they don’t benefit the
cocky educationally worth a row of blighted
spuds. The cockatoo does not, as a rule, aspire
to own equine stock that will jump anything
higher than a plough furrow. This year the Vic-
torian Government withheld the State subsidy
from a number of societies that were too tired to
carry out such simple conditions as cultivating a
few trial plots to see what wheats, etc., were most
suitable to the local soil. Great was the uproar
among the Anti-Sosh controllers of the A., H. and
P. Societies at this withdrawal of Sosh, but the
Government stood fast. It should stand faster,
and not give a bean to the so-called agricultural
society that refuses to live up to its name.
“Gr.S.K.”: Continuing on the subject of
aboriginal nomenclature, the following words
ending in the syllable “bah” are applied to
localities in N.S.W. : Whealbah, Weetalibah,
Ourimbah, Murwillumbah, Moonbah, Keinbah,
Goonellabah, Gillenbah, Durenbah and Bourbah.
The appendix “ bah ” denotes “big timber” in
the aborigine’s dialect to which the word belongs.
Such words as Yarrangobilly, Adjungbilly, Tid-
binbilly and Wagrabilly are applied to creeks and
rivers, the ending “ billy ” meaning a river or
creek. The word “billabong” is, no doubt,
closely connected with the same term. This
word is in the majority of cases misapplied, as
there are few genuine billabongs in N.S.W. The
true billabong is a peculiar formation. It com-
mences in an outlet from a river and flows in the
opposite direction to the main channel, subse-
quently discharging itself into the same river at a
higher level. At Bourke there is a true billa-
bong. One may pull down the stream in a boat,
turn into the billabong, and by continuing on to
the main stream return to the starting point,
pulling with the current all the time.
AN EVIL CONSE-
QUENCE.
SELECTOR (eyeing his hopeful): “ Just ter think,
Bill, yer might be like yer cousin Jim, in
town, some day—a bank clerk!”
BILL: “I s’pose yer mean if I don't take care
of meself, Dad?”
LOVE’S MENU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cold boiled fowl of tender age,
The soul-awaking wine (old, dry,
And yet brimful of bliss) —how I
Thrill thinking on that turned-down page
Of life which tells how, months agone,
These love-foods oft we supped upon !
The lazy-rolling hansom cab,
The salads and desserts you chose !
The utter joyfulness of those
Gay nights in which we tried to grab
The skirts of Pleasure as she sped !
Ah me ! Those lovely days are dead !
Those purple days are long gone by !
I wave, Outback, a frying-pan ;
You, Sweet, have wed your city man,
And, when the time for food is nigh,
You leave your Monday morning suds
For plain cold lamb and warmed-up spuds !
VIC.
STONY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
jVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Macbrose : Your defence of the motor-hog con-
sists of two wild yelping inquiries. Herewith the answers
to them. (1) The discourteous “ brickdray-driver who
sucks a cigarette and sniggers ” isn’t plain-Englished be-
cause—unlike the motor-swine —he neither kills nor maims
people. Sniggering and cigarette-sucking aren’t serious
enough offences to call for plain-Englishing. (2) The
municipalities which “ deliberately leave patches of blue
and white metal about in order to harass motorists ” aren’t
assailed, because they don’t exist. You mistake ordinary
cheap road repairs for malice aforethought... .Matamata :
Thanks ; but The Lone Hand is just like The Bulletin in
one respect—it doesn’t want to be read on the cheap in
“ Schools of Art.’’ It wants the public to buy it
Aroha: “ Pagan ” hasn’t struck a new thought or
a new view of an old thought Lillipilli: All true, but
mere general commendation doesn’t count for much ...
Bar : The “ Australian Magistrate” can be obtained from
Messrs. Maxwell and Keely, 72 Oastlereagh-street,
Sydney Ixion : “ Political Crisis ” very poor rot based
on the vulgar impression of vulgar minds that no poli-
tician has a shred of patriotism in his composition ..
Sprucah : You refer to Tommy Burns in your panegyric
as a “ loving father,” which he isn’t (he isn’t any sort of a
father), and the error casts the fog of doubt over the rest
of the effort L.J.V. (Kensington): Verses have a few-
good lines, but some of the rhymes are very forced
M.J. (M.L.): “Query” very furious sort of production.
The other wandered to the basket with the air of one
going home... A. N. Heidelberg (Vic.): We are weighing
one of them E.11.G. (Warrnanibool, Vic.): Unsuit-
able....lt. Vine (M.L.): “P. Truths” was a poem
that wanted a lot of planing down. May use
other C.F.8.: Verses destroyed with enthusiasm
Equine: A most unpleasant joke R. Mac.: One
suggestion ancient; one poor; one not much g00d....
John Moran: Your tale of Hum Bee’s magpie, which
swears at white men in Chinese, is too sad for print....
Benita: Lines beginning “Oh God!” and containing
references to “weary waiting,” “endless longing,’
“cruel life,” “bitter disappointments,” and “feelings
wounded ” are out of this paper’s line. Be cheery and
j r ou will be natural Unknown: You appear in “The
Thief” to cherish a grievance against someone, but what
he or she has been up to isn't apparent Naliuga: Verses
re the wrongs of Dookie Agricultural College students
are very, very feeble. C.S.: “Drought and Storm
is a mere inventory of tempest effects, and the inventory
that is poetry has yet to be taken.... Avalon: Quite
hopeless. The aboriginal wasn’t sufficiently poetic to
have any words like that. He had words for “hill” and
“ water” and “ food,” but he didn’t go in for scenery:...
Cliff Side : There’s a lot of the Stinking Fish about the
yarn that Australia ought to take a leaf out of Natal’s
book and make some use of its wattle bark. In the two
years you mention, Natal exported 86,654,3851 b. of bark.
In 1905 and 1906, Australia exported 105,523,4881 b. of
bark, or 18,869,1031 b. more than Nata1......F. Drew:
Accra is the capital of the Gold Coast. Principal papers,
Advocate and G. C. Free Press .... Billy S. S.: You
don’t strike it to any great extent with the latest batch.
..Outspan : Can’t spare all that space for such a remote
subject.. ..V.R.G. : Sincerely hope St. Peter lets you
yarn at Heaven’s gate with your mates, but
you are not going to importune the deceased
Apostle on the subject in these c01umn5......
Ralph V. : Males of marriageable age fall naturally into
two classes —those who have recently been chucked by
some girl, and those who haven’t. It is nothing to make
a doleful poem because you chance to belong to the
chucked....Sr : The man in the judge’s box is the
only human being on the course that is able to decide
accurately on a close finish. The camera is a notorious
liar in this regard, the fact that it is an inch or two out
of line with the winning-post making all the difference.
Therefore we decline to believe that Tulkeroo won the
Melbourne Cup Ignotus :No use for an article expos-
ing Stead’s psychical research idiocy C.W.M.C. : In-
dubitable truths, but they have been said so often
T.H. : Having given the whole 15 stanzas of “ Lorna
Doone ” our careful and earnest consideration as re-
quested, we decided that there was but one of them un-
usual enough for print, viz. :
How sweet are the violets
That bloom in the dell;
How pure are possies
That has no paralell.
How dear are the daisies
With beauty and frill;
But the blue-bells they are many,
Exquisite still.
H.G.: “ Cup Night, 1908,” consists of three dull verses
about how your husband came home tight from the races.
Irain : Social notes from W.A. need to have all sorts
of preservatives in the way of wit, humor, etc., to enable
them to keep on the long voyage here. Your notes con-
tain nary a preservative... .The Wasp: Sad, very sad, is
the “ Dirge to Daisy May.” One verse goeth :
The glittering sunlight gleameth,
And the stars of night doth beameth
Upon her sepulchre in the w'oodland far away ;
In Paradise above—dwell the spirit soul of my love,
An angel of the blest is Daisy May.
Shearer: A more foolish tale than that of “ Bnllocky
Dm ”we have not read for years W.J.8.: Haven’t the
slightest recollection of any “young fellow” (or aged
one) sending us any charge or accusation whatsoever. If
he did it is lost, dead and forgotten, likewise the writer’s
name.. ..Comp.: Your “ Bright Bits from The Bulletin”
idea doesn’t appeal to us. The Bright Bit, reft from its
setting, is apt to grow tarnished and dull F.H-B. :
Humor of party who went broke, was distrained on, and
would not have minded so much had they left the
mangle fails to convulse us Corney : After a tender
retrospect of a merry time among the “savage’s
daughters,” you conclude:
Too short was the life, but ’twas short and sweet
’Neath the palms on the coral reaches ;
But we lived it free,
And I long to be
Back where the penguin screeches.
Which, being bathetical, brings destruction by fire on
your entire w'ork No Signature: “From Heaven to
Hades ” is a bulky poetic contraption of no real value
Urn : Regret to say there is absolutely nothing in the
tale to suggest a capacity for writing fiction The Bud :
“Gift of Fate ” is poetic, but too vague and shadowy
Gilmore : “ Arthur Owen—Highwayman ” is—(l) An ass,
(2) a maudlin ass. We have accordingly sentenced him,
and he will die at the hands of the charwoman to-night.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H. W. Cole : Please write your gags in ink, not in faint,
almost imperceptible pencil. It isn’t any more trouble.
Watson : Suggestion hopeless and disagreeable and
unpleasant—not to say nasty and beastly... H.W.I. :
Picture not much good. Joke very little good
Stanley B.: Too shadowy and shapeless and scratchy.
Also we haven’t any Children’s Page.


/\»l4 V*. you heiyd htoouT Jjore Tornoe»vf-?
He's Vm e^evy
hundred -fo*' *s« Us+"
-fwo wce»Cs .
m e Aocfori s a# 1l«\
bc'H’et'
h/ow l
"We call's I s
#C-fosS fc)l
fte "blessed V Mrb stv,l s e
*i^roM^b
"\j-v/3 » '’<4/
-for tf-S-W, we({> $ W
SonK so loW' \\r> -f£ e
of **or\<& 't^ad'"vn«2 donV" c^re
J*C O ii more WC Cv?
bel|? not" on'Ci;,
\\\ The /
\\\w+<> .
mW/fuViron^V
's)<' \
Kty \v
\ yflj&f it" intend 5
Alone >n
\ jT^ct^-rno / elf> from
\\hol>ody ’
jTbe f^rtyW
inform} "ftjie \
IVi II \ r s+-1 ”
\I In Jol>soh l
/ Ro'bson crisis "$«.
/ relations 2>Xe. |
IjMf"rto'T'Q.uj+e br© Ken off .
The Criyj 15 Know on
pood -'tf)A*'H*> Harris WA$ Sent" for ty Qov n or
A
Her | -
/ E'A’n in. -Hjere i$
A Criys & R&nji JA*n
•S t '«3'Pnin£ in favour oj> Viis nefheW
In if" fo Tii<> nefihew
Jus't' where, 1?e differs
-from 05 . (*n o or v/e
af> 'tfye of fowei-
to our Unde \
lifjwK
if” 'Hjci'c ShAll be warj
k.our Bill CAtne 'one lAr s r hio»,t-witt>
•bikes'*" eye see ! “ *
Cue of -ifese -fine d*y s -$e Cad" will reajly
t*|» , lb«n l>e Scm4Hiho into
't/elr Tholes of ajl "$« I
THE WORLD’S UNREST.


The cove as won the £6OOO Tatt. ’s
sweep was in his garden picking peas
* when he heard about it. lie just kept
right on picking peas.— Sews Item.
I know’d a cove as put a bob on, ana
then planned a trip to Europe. When
he heard that he had drawd nothin ,
he resoomed his duties in the street-
cleanin’ department just as much as
ever.
The Chancellor added,
that he felt convinced
that the Kaiser would in
future observe, even in
his private conversa-
tions, that reserve which
was indispensable to the
maintenance of a con-
sistent policy and to the authority of the Crown. Were
it otherwise, neither the present Chancellor nor any of
bis successors could assume responsibility.
It Is reported that the undertakers
and the clergy will combine against
Sunday funerals.
■•And now if we can only
get the doctors to join us,
we shall carry the day.’
Geo. Reid, it is said, will organise a new party, to be called The Truly
Good, and lead ’em to victory or death at the next election.
At the meeting of the Balmain Council to-
morrow night Alderman Cohen has given notice
that he wilt move
“That the Mayor, having ordered a robe for the coun-
cil clerk without consulting the council, be empowered to
pro',,"Sun . view lo liltln, Mi" "Wee the «
Balmain Parliament, suitable wigs for each of the alder
men and the clerk, to insist upon standard evening
dress being worn at council meetings by each mem-
ber ol the council, and have lace collars worn by , /
the officers in the presence of the aldermen / j
in council assembled.” iJful' / /
-
HE LOST NO TIHE OVER IT!
Yass, Saturday Mr. O. H. Reid arrived at Ya*a
by the Melbourne Express this morning.*,
At the Mechanics’ Institute Mr. Reid said 'that
In view of the sudden political changes during the
last few days, the fact that he was delivering an address at Yass on Monday
night next was sure to be regarded by his opponents as part of a deeply-laid
political design.
Who would ever think of suspecting George of such a deep move?
j Where will this sott ot thing endr
"HOP’S” UNDERSTUDY ON THE JOB.


rheV/orld's
Dentifrice
The jurors selected by the Franco-British
Exhibition Executive have awarded two Grand Prizes to
Bovril Limited, one for meat extracts and the other in
the class dealing with animal food products. Bovril was
the only beef beverage authorised to be sold at the Franco-
British Exhibition, London.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE LATE ERNEST FAVENC, explorer,
author and journalist.
Photo. — L. W. Appleby, Sydney.
In the days of bitterness that followed the
long succession of futile desperate strikes 16 or 18
years ago—the bitterness that came very near to
civil war but happily ended in a Labor party and a
struggle for Arbitration instead—one man who
was tasting the added misery of the boycott ex-
pressed some firm opinions about the blessed Con-
stitution. He reckoned a lot of it was wrong from
*be monarchy down wards. A horrified Government
asked him whether he really meant it; and when
he said °f course he did, it shore off the only
little thing he had to shear off—a J. P.-ship To"
day he is Postmaster-General of the Common-
wealth.
From 1823, when
Chief Justice Forbes
was appointed, to
1909, when, at the
end of January,
Chief Justice Par-
ley is due to retire,
N.S.W. has had
six officials of that
rank. The average
of their tenure is
therefore about 12
years and eight
months. Only one,
Martin, can be said
to have mounted
from politics to the
Bench. Da r ley
dabbled in Upper
House politics, but
never passed the
amateur stage.
There is still, not-
withstanding what
the calendar says,
room for legal doubt
as to whether Salo-
mons should rank
among Chief Jus-
tices. If he doesn’t,
the average tenure
of office would be
over 15 years. Salo-
mons was just as
Sudden as Solomon,
of S.A., and his
inclusion largely
affects the average.
Gilbert Murray,
old N.S.W. Speaker
Terence’s son, born
in Sydney 43 years
ago, has climbed up
a step higher ; and,
as Ilegius Professor
of Greek at Oxford
University, he has
now got to the top
of the ladder. A
fine pair of brothers
are this Gilbert and
John Hubert, Judge
and Acting-Admin-
istrator of Papua.
Hubert, who is the
elder of the two,
took to the law, with
volunteering and athletics as a hobby ; and he is
an infinitely finer lawyer than he ever pretended
to be. As for physical fear, he probably never
knew what it was. Both of thefn married into
moneyed families. Gilbert’s wife is a daughter of
the Earl of Carlisle, Hubert’s a daughter of old-
time squatter Jenkins.
Chess is the new Prime Minister’s vice.
Like Sam Mauger, his predecessor, Josiah
Thomas, the new Postmaster-General, is a local
preacher in his spare time. Also, like Mauger, he
is a temperance apostle. But he isn’t likely to
bitterly accuse coal-miners of getting drunk once
a week. There is a yarn that he horrified Mauger
by telling him that, if he (Mauger) were taken
out of his hat-shop and put to work in some coal-
mines, he would almost certainly get drunk twice
a week.
Frank Tudor, the new Minister for Cus-
toms, is a thorough young man. After he had
learned his trade in Victoria—he is a felt-hatter—
he decided to go to Europe and America, and
work in some factories there. So he settled down
to a few years’ hard graft, went on his tour when
his purse was heavy enough, got work wherever
he reckoned that there was something new to be
learned, and then came back home to the Denton
mills. What he saw in other parts made him a
more thorough-going Protectionist than ever.
One of the army of heirs to the Portland
dukedom casually wandered to his grave in S.
Australia the other day. Francis Druce, who
twice went to England to wrest the Portland
millions from an alleged base pretender, based his
claim on the alleged fact that his grandfather was
one of four brothers of the original duke, and
that, as the other three had died, his grandpop
was the logical owner of the shekels. Francis
was a bootmaker in his spare time, and hfs bones
Hiiw lie in the Hindmarsh cemetery, an old and
ragged necropolis in a smellful and most unducal
district. Druce left a grown-up family, but
whether the eldest son will continue the desultory
struggle hasn’t yet been announced.
“Father” John Logan Campbell. Auck-
land’s long-distance Mayor, passed his 92nd mile-
stone on November 3, still going strong. The
veteran if an M.D. of Edinburgh, and came to
Maoriland in the baby days of last century. He
'fought in the Maori wars, and sat in Parliament
at a time when Parliament Was very young and
the first loan was yet unborn. Auckland made
him Mayor in 1900 that he might extend a
friendly flipper to the Dook of York, whereupon
the flipper, by way of showing that it was a
friendly flipper which believed in doing the thing
properly, dived into its owner’s pocket and
handed out a park of 300 acres as a gift to the
nation. Auckland is proud of its ancient, and
never loses an opportunity of mentioning the fact.
Of the new Australian Ministers,
Fisher is a miner, Hughes a barrister, Mahon a
journalist, Tudor a felt-liatter, Batchelor an en-
gineer, Pearce a carpenter, and Thomas a mine-
manager and assayer. Gregor McGregor was a
builder and contractor, but for many years past
has been almost blind. Fisher, McGregor, and
hon. Minister Hutchison are Scotchmen ; Mahon
an Irishman, Hughes a Welshman, Thomas a
Cormshman; and Tudor, Pearce and Batchelor
are Australian born. At 60, McGregor is the
patriarch of the Ministry; Mahon is 50; and
Hutchison, Thomas, Hughes, Batchelor and
Tudor are all between 40 and 50. Pearce has got
out of the habit of mentioning his age to anybody
but he would probably have to run Tudor for the
Baby Stakes. Tudor is 42.
Ex-Justice Edward Tennyson Conolly, of
Auckland (M.L.) Supreme Court, pegged out re-
cently, aged 87. He was a barrister in England
as far back as 1852. In 1865 he shifted to crude
young Maoriland and settled at Picton, of all
places. Picton, though it lies at the head of about
the most splendid harbor in Maoriland, is a mere
village to-day, and 43 years ago there couldn’t
have been decent grazing for a solicitor there—let
alone a barrister. For nine years Conolly sat in
the scrap of a Parliament of Marlborough Pro
vince. Then he moved to the bigger central
Juegislature and became Premier Whitaker’s
Minister of Justice, and Attorney-General to
Premier Atkinson. He finished up with 14 years
on the Bench—a most dignified and poker-backed
Judge, who petrified the slangy lawyer, and the
shambling, stooping, long-legged lawyer, and the
lawyer in a loud suit, with the enormity of his
disapproval.
LORD DUDLEY, GOVERNOR-GENERAL,
AND MORE ESPECIALLY HIS HORSE.
“ Melb.” writes :
In A. B. Robinson we have lost one of the pillars of Mel-
bourne journalism. For 30 years, from 1876 to 1906, he was
commercial editor of the Age. He came here about 40
years ago, when nobody guessed his powers. Always a
fatty, chatty, chirpy, easy-going little man, with a smile
and his head on one side. You can hardly imagine
Robinson without a smile. He struggled with the
Herald at its lowest-down era, under Forsyth and
Hickson. Then, indeed, Robinson seemed to have
nothing in him. Maybe because he fancied
himself where he was weakest, as a social para-
e*; ®J’ me saw his value. Like Bennett
the tirst, on the New York Herald, Syme perceived
he would be nowhere without a tip-top money article.
Robinson was the exact man to overhaul the Argus hand
over hand. Not that the Age, perhaps, beat the Argus,
but it was a tremendous achievement to get up to that
paper, for the Argus Toryism gave it a wonderful-pull
with the commercial world. It is hard for a newspaper
man to be a wonder to the rest of the staff. Robinson
was. He would smile and smile, and a mulloeky-looking
mountain of manuscript from the four winds of Heaven
melted into splendid copy. The things that Robinson
didn t know about his special line of journalism were
never worth writing a book about.
Ernest Favenc, graceful writer and intrepid
pioneer, set out last Saturday along the well-
blazed track that leads to the bourne where ink
is not, and exploring is a work of supererogation.
The passion to discover the unknown wilds of
Australia raged in Favenc during most of the
active portion of his 62 years of life. He dreamed
that somewhere away Back o’ Beyond a fertile,
well-watered Eden lies, and many were his efforts
to strike the happy land. He failed ; but his
dream served as an inspiration for scores of charm-
ing bush sketches, for novels, geographical
treatises, and historical works. He was a born
bushman. Englishman though he was, his
feats in a multitude of tight places won
him the admiration of his nativ.e-born
companions. He knew the remotenesses of this
continent with an intimacy born of a quarter-
century’s close study. He wrote about those
weird expanses with the appreciation of a lover.
He was the apotheosis of the Abo-writer. His
“History of Australian Exploration” is the
most notable of his more ambitious works.
Favenc did much good work for The
Bulletin, and the fact that he once steered a
ghost yarn into this paper was a notable per-
formance, for The Bulletin has mostly shied off
ghosts.
“ 0.K.” writes :
Lord Dudley, escorting his wife across the lawn at
rlemington, reminded me of many things. Firstly the
graceful speech he made—or was said to have made—to
the Dowager Countess of Dudley in announcing his
matrimonial venture i “ Mother, the most lovely woman
in England, next to yourself, has consented to be your
daughter,” or words to that effect. Lady Dudley’s good
looks are not a reminder of the Beautiful Countess, it
must be admitted, but her husband bears a strong facial
resemblance to his mother. When he visited Australia
as a young fellow, many years ago, he was very like the
portrait of him, as a small boy in a sailor suit, which had
been exhibited in shop windows in London what time the
photos of “Society Beauties” were a novel craze. The
Countess of Dudley and her little son (the present G -G
of Australia) were photographed together. The boy’s
parentage was stamped on his face. He must have been
fully ten years older when I first saw him in Australia, but
I could have picked him then from a hundred callow
johnnies of the same age by my recollection of the photo,
aforesaid. And the other day the matured G.-G. struck
me as being very like the youth, who had been so like the
boy. There’s “ a lot of the mother about him,” also some-
thing of the father. Therefore Dudley, walking about the
Flemington racecourse, reminded one of how his eccentric
dad used to back horses occasionally, not from a love of
sport or gambling, but because he liked to be remarkable.
He took it into his long-haired head to do some sensa-
tional plunging in the early ’7o’s. From one bookmaker
he won nearly £20,000 in two bets on the English Derby
and Oaks. When he collected the money from Book-
maker Steele his noble nibs was pleased to be jocular.
He protested that his luck was quite embarrassing, and
he didn’t like to “rob ” the ring of so much money in a
casual manner. “ Don’t be sorry,” said Steele; “if you play
with me long enough I’ll get it back.” The bookmaker
was right. At Ascot, the next year, Lord Dudley had
two plunges on a “ dead certainty " named Petrarch, but
the animal was more dead than certain, and the backer
fell in. One of the bets was £12,000 to £BOOO on the
stiffened favorite. After that experience the disgusted
victim ceased to look for trouble on the turf.
It now transpires that the Bill lies who
was charged with common assault at Kilmore
(Vic.) wasn’t the Bill lies who was once accused
of the sensational murder of Madge Graham at
Ballarat, but quite a different Bill. In these cir-
cumstances it is difficult to know which Bill to
apologise to. In fact, an apology to both Bills
seems in order.
A Sydney paper, mentioning Daniel
Cooper, the first N.S.W. Speaker under Respons-
ible Government, says that he established the
business of the Waterloo Warehouse, George and
Market streets, Sydney. Speaker Cooper was bbrn
in 1821 in Lancashire, and the Waterloo Warehouse
was built in 1820—by Daniel Cooper certainly, but
not by the Daniel who Spoke in that early Corn-
stalk Legislature. The Speaker and subsequent
baronet was nephew of the old colonist who es-
tablished the Waterloo Warehouse. In the late
’2o’s it was Cooper and Levy, then Cooper and
Holt, then D. Cooper and Co. The original
Dan’l Cooper died in London in 1853. He left
his wife in Sydney’s old Sandhills Cemetery.
They had no children, and Speaker Dan’s family
came in for the immense property.
“0.K.” writes:—
Leeming, the Melbourne boot purveyor and sport (he
once entered a horse called “Learning's Boots ” for the
Melbourne Cup), came back from his European explora-
tions last week and confessed himself patriotic in his
polities. He was a piebald Australian when he went away,
but he has returned an absolutely white one, he says, as the
result of studying- the habits of the brown man in his lair.
At Paris he was kept waiting- for three hours in a train at
the station, therefore he has ceased to disrespect the State
railways of his native land, and he found one station-
master in London who had an approximate idea of the
whereabouts of Melbourne. The official guessed it to be
in N.S.W. The halfpenny sections on the Glasgow
municipally-owned tramways gave him a yearning for
penny sections in Melbourne, and the Victorian Court at
the Franco-British Exhibition struck him as being just
the sickest thing in the whole show. Also the estimable
Leeming discovered that this country is suffering badly,
in comparison with Canada, from the want of a Hig-h
Commissioner to look after its interests and correct the
anti-Australian lies that pass for gospel in Britain and
elsewhere.
Australia hasn’t got very far in the spelter
(zinc) manufacturing business ; yet the technical
work it has already done seems to have hit the
foreign capitalist in the eye. Anyway, in a week
or two J. C. Moulden, an Adelaide man who has
had nearly all his training in Australia, will leave
to take oyer the metallurgical work at the new
Central Zinc Works, atMiddlesborough, England.
Moulden has for three or four years been pegging
away at the difficulties that have turned up at the
Cockle Creek works, near Newcastle, and the
Central works at Middlesborough will mostly
handle the same class of ore, imported from Aus-
tralia. In short, Australia will export the ore,
and some of the brains to treat the ore, and why
it can’t keep the ore and the brains and export the
finished metal, if it must export something, is one
of the things that badly need explaining.
THE LATE F. H. POLLOCK , Lessee Theatre
Royal, Adelaide.
Bent found himself in the congenial com-
pany of Berruther Snowball and his Yellow men
t other evening. Being called upon to say some-
thing, Adolphus unloaded what he called a
“toast.” Said he : “ I have been young and now
am old, but never have I seen the righteous for-
saken.” Which is all very well in its way; but
what comfort can Bent get out of that ?
THE AWARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Great Graball, squatter, M.L.A.,
Looked out across his wide domain
That stetched in rolling leagues away,
Of uplands rich and fertile plain.
All, all were his—the cornfields green,
Tlie myriad flocks, the countless herds.
And as he gloated on the scene
A splendid joy, too great for words,
Like sunshine on a rainy day,
Broke over Graball, M.L.A.
Beyond great Graball’s fertile lands,
By wastes of sand and forests dim,
Gaunt settlers fought with tireless hands
'Gainst want and desolation grim.
Great Graball cursed them for their woes
(His curse they long had learned to dread),
He drove them forth with bitter blows,
And stoned them when they asked for bread - .
But whilst he gripped the tenant’s throat
A grinning angel 'swiftly wrote .
Great Graball died (earth’s great must do
Like common men this common thing.
Life s Lessor won't the lease renew
For beggar-man or squatter-king).
His spirit sought the shining spheres
Where Peter, grim and gaunt as Fate,
Through myriads of lagging years
Kept watch and ward at. Heaven's gate.
While Graball shrilled and clamored loud,
A jocund wind frisked with his shroud.
Came Peter ; Graball scowled and glared,
And fiercely asked for robe and ring.
What sort of kingdom was prepared
For him, an erstwhile squatter-king ?
He trusted that the Heavenly Board
(And pomp and pride were in his glance)
Would recognise, with due award,
One of his rank and circumstance.
St. Peter, smiling knowingly,
Sought Graball’s name in ledger G.
Then Peter spoke : “ 'Tis written here ”
(Great Graball, listening, held his breath)
“That all on earth thou held’st most dear
Is thine beyond the doors of Death—
Thy flocks and herds, thy smiling lands,
Thy hoarded wealth of gear and gold
He giveth back into thy hands
For all eternity to hold.”
And Graball cackled loud and shrill
To think he was a Fatman still.
Did Graball reign a squatter-king,
As he on earth was wont to do?
And did he gain a robe and ring ?
He’d no such luck, but this is true—
That settlers’ souls upon their way
To leaseholds in the Lands of Bliss,
Have passed Great Graball, M.L.A.,
Upon the brink of Hell’s abyss,
Bent, Atlas-like, beneath the weight
Of countless tons of real estate.
VIC.
ROB. N. CRAWFORD.


m 0
vi
(C
If
HOTE.- -The figures at bottom of form indicate time the Cablegram was reoeived in Sydney.
Addressed To ws 11 TILLa
SYDNEY
This Despatch has bean recaiYed for delivery anbjoct to the Regulations and Conditions under
which Cablegrams are authorised to be transmitted in the Commonwealth of Australia
GOOD OLD WALLABIES!


Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
An active policeman at Ryde,
When asked, “ Why so happy?” replied,
With grin quite laconic;
“Just Pills, Laxo-Tohic.
Move on ! or I’ll run you inside ! ”
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10M. and Is. 6d.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
at ll P eace f u l” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Mrs. Geo. Rimes, Simpson’s Road, Eagle-
hawk, Vic., writes: “Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy is the best remedy
I know for the treatment of all bowel troubles.
My husband once had occasion to use it': and it
worked such wonders in his case that now he
would not think of being without a bottle in the
house.”
INDIGESTION.
A Sydney Woman Suggests a Course of
Treatment.
How to Strengthen the Organs of Diges-
tion and Really Cure the Disease.
There are plenty of remedies by which you can
relieve, for the time, heartburn, pain and wind on
the stomach, and can smother sensations and in-
duce artificial sleep. But when you take your
next meal all your troubles begin again.
Some people know that the strength which the
weak stomach needs, and for the lack of which
the whole body is suffering, can be found surely
and quickly in Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, a prepar-
ation known in medical circles as the greatest
blood and nerve tonic. In numbers of instances
these pills have succeeded where every other
remedy had failed, and in every case the cure was
radical.
Mrs. Thomas Royce, of 50 Albion Street, Surry
Hills, Sydney, obtained no relief from indigestion
until she tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Suffer-
ers from stomach trouble should profit by her ex-
perience. She says:—
“I suffered a great deal from indigestion for
years. As sure as I ate anything it would lodge
in my chest and stay there for hours after each
meal. I’d have such a nasty taste in my mouth,
and all the food tasted the same. I had” no color
and would always feel out of sorts and wretched.
I was a sufferer from the most distressing head-
aches on the top of my head. I’d think my brain
was affected with the beating and hammering that
seemed to go on, and the ringing in the ears. I’d
bring up quantities of bile. I’d get dizzy turns.
It seemed as if the room and everything were
rushing round me, and I’d have to sit down.
When those headaches came on I could hardly
hold up my head. Often I couldn’t look at a meal
table, for I knew I’d suffer if I swallowed anything,
and feel such a tightness on the chest as if I
couldn’t get another breath. A lady friend told
me about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I gave them
a trial and they took away all these troubles.
From the first they improved my appetite and
eased off that heavy weight on my chest after eat-
ing. Ibegan to suffer less severely from those dread-
ful headaches and the swimming sensation. The
ringing and buzzing noises in my ears went away
and I began to sleep better. Before I had finished
the second box my breathing was as easy as I
could wish. My appearance has improved and to-
day my health is very good.”
When you ask for Dr. Willtatns’ Pink Pills don’t
be put off with anything else. Go where you
can get the genuine with Dr. Williams’ name on
the outside wrapper. It’s the genuine that cures.
Price 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes 15s. 3d., to be had
of storekeepers and chemists; or sent direct by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia,
Ltd., Sydney.
This Elastic Truss
dsf
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last week the passionate demand of the
Tory and Foreign-trade press that Deakin should
coalesce with Reid instead of degrading himself
by lending a friendly support to Fisher, the man
who had thrown him out, was very intense.
Apparently these papers knew Reid, and were
quite certain that he would cheerfully degrade
himself by coalescing with the same Deakin
vvho threw him out in 1905. And probably
they were right. Reid, the anti-Socialist,
anti-if ederatiomst, anti-Victorian, and Free-
trader attained power, first, by combining with
Labor men and Federalists; and, second, by
coalescing with Protectionists, and giving an un-
duly large number of the portfolios to Victorians
A great coalitionist is Reid.
Harrison Owen,” from Melbourne ;
Hereabouts is published the Labor Call, which doesn’t
express the opinions of the majority of Laborites, but
merely what the Chief Blitherers of the P.L.C. tell them
should be their opinions. In its issue of October 19th the
Labor Call states that “ Thu Bulletin, still shriekin’'- for
compulsory militarism and an Australian navy of useless
httle boats, said frankly in last issue : ‘ Australia doesn’t
know against whom its fleet will operate when it gets
one. That shows,” chortles the Call, “ that the Menace
has been exploded”—on the ground, evidently, that if
you admit you don’t know for certain who is going to hit
you, it isn’t any use preparing to defend yourself. The
Call seems quite proud of this argument. ' On the same
grounds, if the Call didn’t know exactly what burglar
would arrive, it wouldn’t think of locking the door at
night, and if it didn’t know what disease it was going to
be attacked by, it certainly wouldn’t think it worth while
having any doctors in the community. i
SPADES ARE TRUMPS.
The Prime Minister intimated that he would be willing
to support the Labor party in office as it had supported
his par ty.—Daily Press.
GEORGE (looking again): “Why, damn it, it’s
the werry hidentical card on’y hupside down.”
George Reid was the first Federal poli-
tician to burst upon Yass with a dog and a speech,
and congratulate the place upon winning the
if ederal capital ballot. Reid is the old warrior
who sniffs a possible vote from afar. And he may
need a new constituency himself one of these days.
Consider the fading Reid majority in the old
Sydney electorate : 1901, 4052; 1903, 3795; 1906
1284!
Thomas Bent, of Victoria, adds an insane
love of Freetrade to his other sins. Under his
regime of incapacity, disgrace, folly, clowning
and execrable comic songs, all goods required for
the public service that can possibly be imported
are imported, to the great damage of local in-
dustry. Of course, the evil example is eagerly fol-
lowed by aldermen and other bad characters. As an
instance, South Melbourne has some large works on
hand, and it is specified that the cement used must be
Knight Be van cement or other approved brand.”
Knight Be van cement is English, of course. Some
Australian makers turn out a rather better article
at Is. a cask less, but they aren’t English. So
the taxpayer will have to pay extra money for the
sake of losing a job and driving business out of
the country. Thus does the evil influence of Bent
assert itself. In a political sense there is only one
thing wrong with Bent, and that is he hasn’t
a single redeeming quality.
Farmer Jamieson suggested, in the S.A.
Assembly, the other day, that the man with no
children should pay double income-tax. “Why
punish a man for his misfortunes?” asked
octogenarian Country Party-leader Burgoyne,
while Premier Price chipped in, “All the Trea-
sury Bench have done their fair share.” “So
? a ,Y e . s l a r * c ‘ Opposition-leader Butler, who is the
father of 10.
After all the enthusiastic statements about
V e l°y }^ ass (N.S.W.) and thereabouts when
the result of the Federal capital site ballot was
announced, it is interesting to read this in the
o. ivl. Herald by its “special reporter ”
Fear of the Federal capital amounts almost to a mania
anions: some of the residents. To their mind, it is some
subtle innovation which is going to suck the life blood
trom existing businesses within a certain radius, and pro-
lif ® aha L ve ? for a , fe . w greedy Sydney shopkeepers. The
idea of added population, a boom in building, demand for
’ n “r aSe i SU PP , i eS > ? nd opportunities for individual enter-
prise in the Federal capital, do not seem to weigh.
in tins little district of Murrumbateman the chief daily
event is the passing of the coach. It brings the mail, and
acts as parcel delivery. There is little else to look for-
,ar,fc°' People come out along the route to get their
paicels and letters, wish the coachman good-day, inquire
f ow * ederal capital matters are progressing, express a
fervent wish that the capital may not be established in
, and ?° 15110151I 5110151 t 0 their lonely occupations.
Ufl y Ce j tai ? ab °ut one thing in the uncertainty of
life. They don t want the Federal capital. Dalgety. or
l> ace that chooses, may have it. They are
uonl 1 *m"A- he r ° ut ® th . ere ia a PP aren fly the same stren-
2S",**"** havin g the capital anywhere in the
district. The only person encountered by the Herald
representative in his wanderings who had a good word to
S,i f h , e / ederal .? a P 1 tal , project was a young lady at
Hall, who thought its establishment would bring along
. , mce . people from town, and thus widen the scope
of social enjoyment. 1
ANDREW FISHER, the new Prime Minister
of Australia.
Photo.—Talma, Sydney and Melbourne.
A delegate to the recent Municipal
Association Conference in Melbourne accidentally
learned that he wasn’t the only pebble on
the beach. He was a man of florid speech,
which he had practised on his brother
shire-councillors with much effect. Drop-
ping into a Bourke-street restaurant for his
tea, and remembering that there had been
two days’ steady rain in the city, he re-
marked pleasantly to the man seated oppo-
site him—“Ah, grand weather! It has
been raining sovereigns all day.” The
other looked him over carefully, placed his
paper on one side, and enquired, “You’re
from the country, I presume ? ” “ Yes, the
north-east, Avenel.” “Oh, you’ve been
deputationising Bent and asking for money
to make your roads?” “Well, yes; I’ve
been on two deputations; but ours is a
poor shire and we need a grant badly. We
have a shilling rate.” “ Well, mister, I
live at Brunswick, where we pay a two-and-
fourpenny rate on a high valuation and make
our own roads. I’m a plumber and the rain
has kept me idle the last two days. You
say it has been raining sovereigns all day—
well,” he folded up his paper, “one of
those sovereigns came out of my pocket. And
still you want me to pay something towards your
road-making! ”
The general scoot of the State-Frights
Premiers to get “legal opinion” which would
endorse their weep that Dyne’s Surplus Revenue
Bill was unconstitutional,
created a quaint situation in
Tasmania. The other Premiers
got the sort of “opinion”
they wanted, but Jack
Evans dropped down dead
when his own Solicitor-
General advised that the
Commonwealth was per-
fectly within its rights.
The Captain - Premier
revived in time, however,
to remark that his legal
adviser didn’t know what
he was talking about,
and to join the other
States in the High Court
appeal foolishness. Then
the High Court said
with emphasis that the
Tasmanian law-man’s opinion was quite correct,
and Jacky dropped down dead a second time!
Probably, if anyone suggested that, as a punish-
ment for being a pig-headed old man, Jacky
should be ordered to pay Tasmania’s share of the
appeal Costs, he would drop down dead a third
time and stay dead.
G. Reid is the Boss Obstructor when he
isn’t the Boss Absentee. Even before Prime
Minister Fisher had formed his Ministry, or
declared his policy or shown himself in any way
as an administrator, the desperate old gentleman
with the glass-pane had begun to talk of a no-
confidence motion, and was busy skirmishing up
some sort of a pretext for one.
Barnum Powell’s crank of Boy Scout-
ing seems to have caught on with some of
the local youth, but the average lad looks
on the corps with the smouldering hatred
that is next door to manslaughter. As
expounded by the special text books, Bar-
num s fad is a sort of glorified game played
with intense solemnity in unusual clothes.
There are passwords 'and vows, and much
crawling about on the stomach. Crawling
on the stomach seems to be the main
business of the Scouts, and it is to be
hoped that some sort of stomacher is
supplied to the members ; otherwise the
regiment will wear out in no time and
will have to be half-soled—or rather
half-stomached. Later on, when the
novelty has worn off the scouting, and the
front has worn off the Scouts, the move-
ment will probably die a natural death
from a rush' of brains to the head. A
live cadet system, with uniforms, rifles,
drills and camps on grown-up lines, would
attract thousands of boys whom Barnum’s
fad merely infuriates.
The present astonishing Government
of N.S.W. has decided that in future the
special concessions, in the way of railway
fares and soon, given to intending settlers
who are travelling in search of land will
not apply “to persons already residing
within the Commonwealth.” The Frenchman
or German, or any other stranger (perhaps
even the Chinaman) may, for instance, get for
63s. a second-class ticket, with which he can
travel all over the State for two weeks inspecting
land, and when he goes to attend a land sale he
will be carried there and hack for a single fare.
The N.S.W. man, or any other Australian, must
]oay full fare. It is a curious business ; but, then,
Gregory Wade runs a curious Governments.
Tommy Bent, of Victoria, having aban-
doned his land - purchase -'for - closer - settlem en t
policy and his Land Valuation Bill, and having
thrown his Ministry overboard to placate theCoun-
try party, and formed a new Cabinet, has now come
forward with a device for limiting the amount of
country lands that any one landholder may
possess. He says that anybody holding more than
£ worth of country land (the limit is not fixed
yet and may prove to be £250,000 worth) will be
required to dispose of one-quarter of the excess in
fiveyears, andof the rest byequal instalmentsin 10,
15 and 20 years. If it was a responsible politician
who made the proposition it might count for
something, but Tommy Bent is a mere joke
nowadays.
THE CHEEK OP THE WORKING CLASS !
[For Tub Bullktin.]
The House of Commons has concluded the debate on
the question of the unemployed and the Premier’s state-
ment regarding measures of relief.
Mr. Balfour strongly complained of the refusal to allow
a tw ° days’ debate. Referring to the unfit labor em-
ployed in special relief work, he described it as contrary
to Freetrade principles, inasmuch as it was buying the
worst goods in the dearest market.— News.
What care we who guide the nation
How our hungry people perish ?
All you clods of lowly station,
If but dimly still you cherish
Hopes of help from rulers godly,
Let us put it to you broadly—
How on earth can we lend aid?
We are wedded to Freetrade !
Once you see the matter stated
In a nutshell thus so plainly,
You will recognise you’re fated
To plead with us ever vainly !
Though an angel interceded
For the help you say is needed,
’Twould be futile, we’re afraid,
For we’re married to Freetrade!
Care not though your bairns grow daily
Hollow-eyed and ever thinner;
So your haggard wives speak gaily
Dish up merry jests for dinner.
Though you’re out of work and broken,
Recognise that it is spoken—
“ Misery shall not in vade
England’s bulwark—rare Freetrade ! ”
Keep on starving, O ye lowly !
Man should really have no fear o’
Death, when in a cause so holy
He is dying ! Be a hero !
Gamely starve, and prove thereby
How an Englishman can die !
Men by millions God has made !
But there’s only ONE Freetrade !
MAORILAND. SlNC. S. CLARK.
FEDERAL ROUNDERS!—A THREE-
PARTY CAME.
Under the Queensland Wages Boards Act,
when a Wages Board can’t decide on a chairman
the appointment rests with the Minister. Until
a few days ago it rested with that good democrat
George Kerr. In the new Kidston Iscariot
Ministry it rests with Philp’s Tory nominee, J.
G. Appel. The Wages Boards are already
developing the habit of coming to a deadlock
over the selection of a chairman, and doubtless
the employers’ section of the Boards will see to it
now that the deadlock habit becon es chronic.
Then Appel will make a carefully selected ap-
pointment, and the Tory and Small Wage section
will control each Board with a majority of one.
THE MOTOR CAR.
REID AT YASS. (THE USUAL REVERSOLET.)
[Fob Tiik Bulletin.]
Reid will surely know,
Now he’s got as far as Yass,
How his eloquence will flow ;
Now he’s got as far as “ Yass ! ”
Reid will surely “ No ! ”
N-SiW. A.11.A.
Another letter from Brisbane :
Following the letter last week conies the statement by
.las. Blair, M.L.A., printed in the Courier. It tells of
how, after having formally refused a Northern wig and
gown, he went to Bellevue station for a week end, and
how, while there, Kidston sent a certain person down to
another certain person to ask the latter if Blair hadn’t
better be soothed down and persuaded to sit on the
Northern Supreme Court Bench after all. The second
certain person (who happened to be E. J. Stevens) told
the certain person sent by Kidston (named P. J. McDer-
mott) “ Yes.” So together they ’phoned to Bellevue, and
Blair came per motor car. A conference with certain
person Stevens was followed by a conversation per ’phone
with Kidston, the burden of whose song was “ Withdraw
your objection and all will be well.” After considera-
tion this was agreed to, and at Kidston’s request,
made in the hearing of E.J.S., an appointment
was made for next day, and an assurance given that the
overtures to Barrister Shand to take the Townsville judge-
ship were purely formal, and not binding. This assurance
was echoed at next morning’s meeting. Finally the
objection was expunged, and Blair went back to his office.
Twenty minutes later “ Queensland’s strong man ” rang
up and said he was sorry, but the thing had gone too far,
and Barrister Shand had accepted the billet. For a bit of
clumsy bungling it almost holds the record. Parkes beat
it once, though.
YASS UNFORTUNATELY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Great excitement prevailed in Yass to-day, when the
news arrived Of the selection of the Yass-Canberra site by
the Senate for the Federal capital. Bands played in the
streets, and flags were hoisted on the principal buildings.
—Sydney daily paper item.
Yass ? Certainly !
Out of the thick argumentative fogs,
Out of Inanity’s dreadful immensity,
Loud above crashing and rolling of logs
(Which I regret is a frequent propensity),
Cometh the Answer, compounded of gas,
“Here is your Capital—Certainly, Yass !
(Yass, certainly!)”
Yass ? Certainly !
Is it the voice of the Nation that speaks,
Or a chance sound of the Nation’s machinery?
For it has toiled without rest for long weeks
Talking of water and climate and scenery ;
Poor is the work it is doing, alas !
Does it want seeing to ? D—n it all, Yass !
Yass, instantly !
N. S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


for Country &Town Wear.
Best Value
m
Australia
m
J
i
i
#
0
Write /or Patterns
and
Sel/ Measurement
Forms.
Cut, Style & Finish.o/ High Standard.
BUCKLEYfeNUNN L™
Bourke Sr Melbourne.
sd
ORDER NOW for CHRISTMAS !
5?
£
$
n,'i
Zebra Stripes, from 3 Guineas.
F. J.
/
PALMER & SON’S
CELEBRATED
Suits to Measure,
50/=, 63/=, 70/=,
75/=, 84/=
The greatest Tailoring value
in Australia.
Made throughout on our own
premises.
Every Suit a perfect fit; every
garment well finished.
Write for Patterns of our
Newest Summer Fabrics.
Mailed free with tape and
self-measure form on receipt
of this coupon filled in with
your name and address.
“B.” 19/11/’OB.
Please send, Free Patterns, etc., to
Name
Address
F. J. PALMER & SON,
The Tailors you’ve heard of,
Corner of PITT and
PARK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
And at George
Street, Haymarket.
Which is a Father’s Proudest Day ?
PROBABLY the proudest day in a father’s life-time is the day his daughter gets married to the man of her choice, and with his full approval. He is proud
of her and proud to see that he is not the only one who appreciates her good qualities just as much. You will probably wonder what that has got to do
with us—but just wait. The proud father will naturally want to fittingly mark the occasion by means of a handsome and useful wedding gift. It is in
the supplying of just such an article that we come in. Nothing can equal the advantages of a
CUTLERY CANTEEN,
containing all the Knives. Forks, and Spoons that will be required by the young couple in
their private life, and while entertaining their many friends.
Three Canteens that warrant instant approval are described here, and we can with
every confidence supply them.
CANTEEN AS ILLUSTRATED.
(No. H 7897.)
The Case is of heavy Golden Oak, with Three Drawers and One Tray, all fitted to take
the articles separately. The Case is brass-mounted'and has Patent Hinges and Lock.
The contents are as follows
18 Dinner Knives
18 Cheese Knives
5-Eiece Carving Set
Knives are of the Finest Sheffield
Steel, through tang, and Handles
are of the finest African Ivory.
18 Table Forks (Old English)
18 Dessert Forks (Old English)
12 Table Spoons (Old English)
18 Dessert Spoons (Old English)
18 Tea Spoons (Old English)
6 Egg Spoons (Old English)
1 Mustard Spoon (Old English)
4 Salt Spoons (Old English)
1 Soup Ladle
2 Gravy Ladles
2 Sauce Spoons
Every piece is A 1 Quality,
Dixon’s Sheffield Silver-
plate on white nickel-silver.
Sent Packed and Carriage Paid, *47 lOs.
CANTEEN No. H 7898,
With One Drawer and One Tray, otherwise as H 7897. The qualities and description are
exactly the same, but quantities are less, as follows :
8 each Table and Cheese Knives 8 Tea Spoons
8 each Table and Dessert Spoons 3-Piece Carving Set
8 each Table and Dessert Porks
A splendid set for six or eight people.
Price - - - - £2l.
CANTEEN No. G 3174,
Contains 12 each Table and Cheese Knives, 5-Piece Set of Carvers, 12 each Table and
Dessert Spoons, 12 each Table and Dessert Forks, 12 Tea and 6 Egg Spoons, 4 Salt and
1 Mustard Spoon a Sugar Tongs, Butter Knife, Soup Ladle, 2 Sauce Ladles, and 2 Gravy
Spoons. Quality and Case as No. H 7897.
Price ■ « • ■ £32 lOs.
s
112-Page ART CATALOGUE
on Request.
(AUSTRALIA). Lm
W/L vM
S TB>NOCQ R w„, ULU^ ts , _ 111 MIN
The Finest Collection of
Wedding Gifts in Sydney.


a
Peter F. Heering 1
Est. ms.
fsd
THE GREAT FABRIC
that Rivals Silk.
Specially adapted for BLOUSES, SLIPS, PETTICOATS,
CHILDREN’S DRESSES, SKIRT and BODICE LININGS,
CUSHION COVERS, etc.
BLACKS ABSOLUTELY FAST.
“ Silvasheep, the best lining-—it lasts where Silk does
not, and has all the Sheen of a Silk.”
Obtained Grand Prix Paris Exhibition, ISOO.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR IT.-«i
Summer is coming on. Why Freckle? It is
not necessary. Feed your skin with Valaze, the
marvellous Russian Skin Reautifier, 3s. 6d., 6s. 6d., and
6d. postage. Use the Novena Sunproof Creme as a pro-
tection against the wind and sun, and you can’t freckle.
If you have freckles already they can be removed with
Valaze Freckle Cure. This list might easily be extended,
but these will serve for an indication. If you want to be
skilfully helped to help yourself, write at once for Mile.
Rubinstein’s new booklet, “Beauty in the Making,” 3d.
by post. It contains just the latest ideas on the cultiva-
tion and preservation of the complexion. Novena Sun-
proof Creme, 2s. and 3s. 6d., and Freckle Cure, 5s. 3d.
posted. All chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein
and Co., Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street,
Sydney, and 274 Collins Street, Melbourne.* [2
Be the Broken Hill strike conspirators of
1892, and the statement (B. 5/ll/’08) that Hewitt
is the only one of them now in the Labor move-
ment, “ Paroolli ” writes that another. E. J.
Polkinghorne, isn’t far away from it. He was a
Labor alderman down to January of this year.
Polkinghorne, who was the “infant” among the
“conspirators,” is, in these days, secretary of the
Barrier Co-operative Stores.
One electrician writes about another elec-
trician’s recently-reported triumph : —
Cyril Elwell, the brilliant Australian who is Professor of
Mathematics at Leland Stanford University, California
(U.S.A.), has perfected a wireless telephone system, by
means of which you can order the breakfast chops at a
distance of five miles without the metallic vibration
found in the ordinary ’phone. Wireless telegraphic
aerials are used at both sending and receiving stations.
The sending apparatus consists of a transmitter con-
nected with a set of dry cells, and a condenser sending a
spark between two electrodes. The vibrations of the
voice in the transmitter make this spark conform to the
voice vibrations, and the Hertzian waves thus formed
travel to the receiving station, where they are causrht by
a detector, consisting of a globule of mercury with two
cylinders, regular telephone receivers being attached.
fd
VS
o
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
To make Robur tea properly,
you must put fresh water
into your kettle each time
(never use water that has
been boiled before, because
the more it is boiled, the
harder it gets) —thoroughly
warm your teapot—put in
the required amount of
] ea { _ pour on the water
immediately it boils—let it
draw for 5 or 6 minutes—
then it’s ready. Whatever
you do, don’t let it draw too
long, or you’ll spoil it, and
it is a shame to spoil good
tea like Robur.
The No. 1 Grade Robur is
beautiful tea.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARP BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848. 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 17, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
The inevitable has followed its usual course, and
Mr. Armstrong has been divorced by the pretty
little wife who was out here with him 18 months
ago. The bride was the only, and rather
spoiled, daughter of C ’onel Otway, a “smart”
Londoner. She had seen nothing of any
world outside that of her class. The breezy
expansiveness of Mrs. Melba horrified her.
She approved of nothing in connection with her
mother-in-law, with the solitary exception of the
latter’s voice. Her complaints of Melba’s
gauckerie, bad form and general “impossibility”
were frank and loud in the land during the
whole of her stay in the Commonwealth, and
there were many who prophesied a burst-up
before the Melba entourage left these shores.
That Melba herself disapproved of her son’s treat-
ment of his wife is no dark secret. She put him
on board a liner as a consignment to his grand-
father Mitchell in Melbourne as soon as the cita-
tion for divorce was served.
State Governor Rawson opened the N.S.W.
Manufacturers’ Exhibition in the Exhibition Build-
ings on Monday afternoon with a large number
of well-chosen words. Twenty minutes’ browsing
amongst the entries will prove that Australia pro-
duces the finished article in nearly everything that
is made under the sun, from iron to opals, from
blankets to chocolate creams, from innumerable
sorts of woods to notepaper, acetylene burners,
pianos, boots, and hats. Mr. Bluett, as manager
of this All Industries proposition, is on hand to
dispense knowledge, and Holy Writ says that
knowledge is power, or if it doesn’t it ought to.
“Going big-game shooting with Bigwood ” is
Carrie Moore’s latest gag for the newspapers. The
number of actors who yearn to goin to the j ungle—of
the Winter Garden at the Australia—and kill and
kill and kill fierce wild beasts is astonishing. A
year or so hence we’ll possibly get snapshots of
Carrie and Bigwood seated in a howdah on an
elephant and blazing away at the man-eating
tiger (such claws, teeth and eyes !) that has leapt
on to the hindquarters of the elephant. Another
snapshot will show Bigwood with the tiger’s hide
draped upon his shoulders, and the beaters standing
around, the whole produced and staged by C.
Moore. Possibly the pair will be even more reck-
less and do the stalking on foot. But that is
hardly likely, as it would be less spectacular.
The veteran Dr. Elizabeth Garrett—or Ander-
son, by marriage—has been elected mayor of her
native town in Suffolk (England), which indi-
cates that suffragettism is not in advance of the
times in Suffolk, anyhow. Elizabeth Garrett is
old enough to have been formerly denounced as a
crank or lunatic for her pains in qualifying herself
for the medical degree which the British colleges
of surgeons denied her. She started the woman-
doctor movement all on her “own” in 1860, and
was certificated as an M.D. at Paris University
ten years later. The women doctors of A '.stralia
should at least subscribe a cablegram of >. ngratu-
lation to the old battler who, in her 7ord year, is
now the first of English municipal “mares.”
Probably she will live to get the suffrage that she
demanded for her sex in the days when an advo-
cate of woman’s rights was reckoned a fitting
mark for mud and rotten eggs. Everything comes
to the worker who waits, and Elizabeth is seem-
ingly tough. Her late husband, J. G. S. Ander-
son, was managing director of the Orient steam-
ship line.
Fencing for girls has impacted Sydney with
terrific force. It involves no wearisome digging
of holes or hewing down of trees. Simply the
fledgling fencer buys a fascinating costume that
resembles a stuffed bathing suit, and a foil with a
button at the business end, and calls on Miss
Howard of this city. In a matter of six months
the caller is a female d’Artagnan ; within the year
she is in the Julius Knight class as a flourisher of
the lethal blade. Some little time ago there were
fencing bouts between various of Miss Howard’s
pretty little local maidens at the St. James’ Hall,
and they were pleasing to view, and illuminative
of the amount the Australian child can learn in a
short time when put to it. They were an extra-
ordinarily “ fit’’-looking lot of damsels. A
physical-culturist of European fame has said that
“fencing alone among sports gives women the
bearing and figures of the Egyptian water-
carriers.” It is high praise. Anyhow a term of
fencing is calculated to do the growing girl—and
likewise the grown one—more good than ten
thousand sessions at the indigenous tea-and-cake
foundries.
Paris has evolved a new veil. It is called “ the
mummy veil,” and is worn in a multitude of folds
across the face and under the chin. When cor-
rectly adjusted, the frontispiece of the wearer is
indiscernible, and her head looks as f, 'iugh it
were in a bag. This bagging of the Lu .ian head
may have its advantages in some cases, but unless
there is an air-pipe through the veil, it must surely
be a suffocating sort of garment.
Our old friend Lord Brassey, at the age of 72, has
started to learn German. When distributing the
prizes at some college, he told the boys that in 10
days from time of starting he was reading Prince
Hohenlohe’s memoirs in the original. He did not
say that the reading was as easy as falling off a
log. Possibly falling off is a painful subject with
Brassey. When he began the book he had to rush
to the dictionary for 25 words in each page. Soon
he dropped to nine words, and he reckoned that
when he had been on the job for a month he would
have to chase but five. This is all very fine
and hopeful—to the person who has never tried
to bark in a foreign language, especially in the
German bark with its pitfalls of irregular verbs.
It’s wicked to doubt the word of the Lord —I
mean a lord—but Brassey must have had a pretty
good working knowledge of German already to
have to look up but 25 words to the page, unless
it was a very small page. Even allowing that he
spent all the daylight and twilight hours of the
ten days with one hand on the lager bier and the
other on the Memoirs, it sounds like a large
undertaking.
Someone asserted a few days ago, in a Sydney
evening paper, that Esperanto might be acquiree!
in some incredibly short space Of time—a month,
I think. Well, nearly two years ago the Maori-
land Government decreed that those in charge
of its Tourist Bureaux should learn Esperanto.
Naturally these persons would be (at least) of
average intelligence. The majority had already
the valuable foundation of some Latin, but it
would be interesting to learn how many of them
could, after six months, translate the postcards
sent them by Esperantists from foreign parts.
“ Some of the agents are still pegging away at the
language,” a Maorilander in Sydney tells me.
Which suggests that the others have dropped it.
Richard Burton and Thomas Carlyle were of the
species that can acquire a language or dialect in
a few weeks, but they were exceptions.
Beautiful Maxine Elliot, who was in Australia
sortie years ago with Nat Goodwin, has been
divorced by her Nat for desertion. “ The case
lasted just 11 minutes,” says the newspaper
report. Justice Simpson wouldn’t have been so
expeditious.
Miss Betty Ohls, the new Merry Widow, is
finding her way about town with the aid of a
shiny black walking-stick. There are seven silver
hearts let into the crook of the weapon. This
does not mean that the pretty, fair-haired, grey-
eyed girl is short-sighted, but that the seven-of-
liearts stick is her mascot. She nursed it at the
Symphony Concert on Thursday, whither she
went with Mrs. Freddie Shipman to hear Con-
ductor Carr’s “ Black Opal,” given by the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. Mrs. Hugh Ward, who is
back in Sydney with her children, was another
listener.
The death of Mrs. Creer, who was the widow of a
captain in charge of the Pilot Service at Watson’s
Bay, reveals her as the mother of 14 children. In
her obituary notice nine daughters, all married,
are mentioned. Mrs. Playfair, of “Kioto,”
Waverley, is one; Mrs. R. B. Parry, so well-
known among the melomaniacs of Sydney, is
another; and one of the deceased lady’s sons is
married to a daughter of that versatile writer,
Lady Violet Greville. Mrs. Creer had claims to
blue blood (the real lapis lazuli tint) that a lot of
people who come here from Lordnoswhere and
put on ruff would be very glad to possess.
I stirred a tiny cup of tea the other afternoon,
and crumbled a scone in the captain’s cabin of a
big—a quite big—vessel that takes corpses of frozen
mutton, wool and other produce to England. For
a while I was under the verdant delusion that the
cabin had been decorated in my honor with a vine
to which I could not give a name. Three pictures
were garlanded with one phenomenally long trail.
I got my eye on its tracks, and followed its con-
volutions rootwards. It was sweet potato. The
tater grew in water in a pickle jar, and the jar
was suspended unobtrusively in a corner of the
cabin. Out at sea it must remind the cabin’s
occupant of the twig that the gentle fowl brought
back to Noah.
A bride-elect, Miss See of Grafton, a niece of
the late Premier John See, takes some marvel-
lous trousseau gowns with her to India, whither
she goes-to throw herself into the arms of her
choice. One is a thick white satin, with a drapery
fashioned entirely of tiny opal-like beads festoon-
ing the corsage. It doesn’t sound the real thing
to describe be&ds as drapery, but all the same the
decoration is a closely-woven flexible piece of bead-
work. Another dream is a pale-ale satin, with
big buttons covered with satin down the front.
On each button is sewn a raised gold leaf
to match the same kind of foliage on the bodice.
Then there’s a peacock blue dinner costume with
a black chiffon scarf draped from the waist. Most
of the trousseau gowns have the floppy chiffon sash
either in the same or some contrasting color, and
finished with quite big blobs. “ Blob ” may not be
in the dictionary, but it ought to be. In this case
it is a ball of wadding sewn inside the elegant
material of the gown, and it may be as big as the
average powder puff or as small as a hazel nut.
Some day it will probably be of the dimensions
of a football. Miss See’s blobs were quite able-
bodied in size, and if they were only filled
with sand they would constitute notable weapons
of offence or defence. One could be sand-bagged
with such. And then think of the daily paper
report: “A newly-married man named Smith
was hit on the head with a blob by his wife. His
life is despaired of.”
The pretty owner of this beautiful trousseau
marries a Mr. Adams, brother of the naval doctor
of the name who, a year or so back, wedded one
of the Knox girls. She left for her future homh
in India last Saturday.
A pink-flowered silk muslin over pink silk is
another frock that will help to make the bride-
groom still more abject. The rosy blooms are
sewn over with spangles. One more dream is
black chiffon over white silk. Gold tassels, like
little acorns, are hung upon its upper quarter.
These gowns are mainly directoire or empire, and
are lined with flannel for a foot or so of the skirt
to make them cling. To depress them still
further, some lead buttons are put in hidden
places on the lower skirts.
Mr. Harley Hixson died at Moss Vale on
Friday. He had been a “lungy” subject for
years. He married Miss Olive Flood about a
decade ago, and lived most of his time, for health
reasons, at Moss Vale. He was an alderman of
the town, a leading spirit in the Bong-Bong Race
Club, a keen sporting enthusiast in other direc-
tions, and one of the district’s best-liked citizens.
He was a son of Captain Hixson, of the Harbor
Trust, and a brother of Mesdames J. and G.
Fairfax.
A gentleman whose name—Short —fitted him,
and whose crust-earning designation is “The
King’s Trumpeter,” went to Wellington (M.L.)
from Sydney on Saturday after wrestling with the
musical competition at Ballarat.
Katharine Goodson goes off to Canada in the
new Union Co.’s boat, the Makura. She plays
with the S.A.O. next Wednesday, and gives a
final recital next Saturday at the Town Hall.
Said one of the Sydney dailies on a recent Satur-
day:—
The “ beauty doctor ” has come to stay; but the charges
are enormous. All Australian women who go to England
for a trip, on pleasure or business bent, fall under the
influence of this functionary at Fashion’s shrine. ... A
Sydney woman was heard to declare recently, “ If I had
had time I could have been made as beautiful as Helen in
London, but it does take time.” Miss Ada Crossley
and other returned favorites would frankly own up to the
ministrations of the beauty doctor. The great result
obtained by beautifying is obliteration of age. “You
don’t look a day older than when you went away,” is the
correct thing to say to all ladies fresh from London and
the beauty doctor.
And so forth. And on the following Monday the
thoughtless ypung man at the other end of the
cable sent this message:—
The wife of George Heath, a hatter, of Oxford-street, has
obtained £5OO damages from Mrs. Catherine Lavin, other-
wise “Mrs. Auguste,” a beauty specialist of Bond-
street, for injury to her face during treatment.
The truth is that the vogueof the “beauty doctor”
is something of a busted vogue in fashionable
circles these days. “Mrs. Auguste” is the fourth
of her profession to be mulct in damages by a
British court of justice for ruining the appear-
ance and bodily well-being of a patient during the
past couple of years. The “ infallible hair-
restorer” of the “ beauty expert ” proves all too
often to be a depilatory of an efficacy that fairly
staggers the vendor when some bald and mad-
dened subject draws her attention, a day or so
after application, to its bush-firelike qualities ;
and the tendency of the “experts” “com-
plexion lotions” is to set up the bright flush, not
so much of youth as of erysipelas. For the
beauty doctor monkeys habitually with that
which she wots not of. In the Rue de la Paix—
the Bond-street of Paris—there was an establish-
ment, a few years ago, wherein elderly has-beens
of the female sex were skinned. After about
three layers of pelt had been stripped from the
whilom Semiramis, a substratum was reached
(allegedly) of girlish smoothness and beauty. It
was said one year in the papers which puff the
beauty specialist and get her ads. in return, that
Mrs. Langtry had been skinned in the Rue de la
Paix, and was looking divine and only 20 years old
in consequence. The spouse of a well-to-do London
haberdasher crossed the Channel, and submitted
herself hopefully to the ministrations of the expert.
She emerged from the fray minus (1) every vestige
of face and head hair that Time had left her, and
(2) without her right eye. The specialist had in-
advertently put the wrong acid or something into
the wash that was to banish the top-dressing of
the unhappy old lady’s frontispiece. As a fact,
the main beauty-cult amongst the “smart”
women of London and Paris to-day is the
world-old one of health. The modern beauty
diets rigorously, drinks aerated waters instead
of fizzy wine, does Sandow exercises, is
“rubbed down” daily, and in general imi-
tates the ways of boys of the Burns-Johnson
breed. I glanced last night at the proof sheets of
a couple of articles that are to appear in the De-
cember issue of The Lone Hand. They deal
with the habits and personalities of the two emi-
nent dealers in assault and battery who are now
in our midst. As I scanned the dietary of the
champions, methought that I was gazing at the
daily menu of the typical “smart” European
dame. Judging by the Paris papers, there is little
difference between the fodder of these fair beings
and that of the up-to-date prize-fighter.
I cut this from the Ladies’ Field, which is an
English periodical:—
Y'tOUNTRY Home, with good garden, for ladies’ Pet
Dogs, during their owners’ absence from home ;
special personal care given to toilet and diet. Miss
McDowell, Hill Cottage, The Thicket, Maidenhead.
It seems to me to afford an effective answer to
those who wail about unemployment in the Old
Land. Why do the working classes want Pro-
tection and factories and the like when they can
apply for a job as valet to a dog ?
The Allen Taylors and sonny Forster are back
in Sydney at their Darlinghurst home. They
sported around Melbourne during the Cup worry,
and now this city has started in to feed the gentle-
man with the complimentary dinner, and to pour
the “at home” tea out of Crown Derby over the
lady.
Thus “ Mario,” from Brisbane :
Great are the preparations to welcome home Anglican
Archbishop Donaldson, who has been disporting his elegant
legs at the Pan-Anglican and Lambeth Conferences, and
in between whiles gathering money for the purpose of
finishing that imposing pile of cathedral on the heights of
Petrie’s Bight. While our hospitals are wanting the
means to keep pace with the growing numbers of the sick
poor, I must confess that the cathedral seems a sad Waste
of money. However, such is charity. The proceedings
on Monday will include a service at the Exhibition
Hall and a reception in the grounds (price Is., which
includes the right to shake the spiritual flapper and
dispose of a robust bun and some anaemic tea). Later on
there will be a free evening meeting, upon which a broad
flash of vice-regal light will be shed, and the results of the
local begging expedition will be revealed to his reverence.
In other words, the foreign-going mendicant and the home-
staying mendicants will compare the contents of the
respective hats. •
All our people are buckling on their armor for the poli-
tical fray on Tuesday, when the Kidston-Philp combina-
tion—a combination which, by the way, already shows
an alarming tendency to crumble —will plant its feet upon
the carpet in front of the Treasury benches. It will also
proceed upon that day to turn as bland a face as may be
to the combined reproaches of an Opposition 31 strong,
including such experts in the art of reproach as J. W.
Blair, Lesina, Bowman, Jenkinson, Peter Airev, and Kerr.
From a woman’s point of view, the sessioh is likely to
be no less stormy, for a mandate has been issued by “ me
brother Jannie” (Speaker Leahy). The politically-
minded lady will no longer be permitted to stroll up into
the Ladies’ Gallery as her right, but must get a paste-
board from the Speaker (the same being issued at the
request of a member) before she can set her No. 2 foot
within the sacred precincts. She can, however, foregather
at will in the Strangers’ Gallery together with the general
multitude. The new rule has another curious side ;
while the female who doesn’t know an II.L. A. from a bar
of soap may go with her best young inan and sit in the
strange wilds aforesaid, and hold his hand and gaze into
his eye, the dame who knows all the Ministers, Speakers,
and members, and can get a card from every mother’s
son of them, can only gaze upon her Adolphus from
across the chamber and through two sets of iron railings.
Our Lottie Richter, of the very pure soprano voice, has
entered into a contract to give her hand and heart, upon
a date yet unfixed, to a young man whose name has not
transpired.
Word comes to me that songstress Ida Wilson, with
Mrs. Arthur Feez and daughter, are safely embarked
upon the Roon for home. Barrister Arthur, who was to
have accompanied them, has been seized upon by parties
to me unknown, chloroformed andhurgled of his appendix.
Whether he will be strong enough to travel yet awhile is
not known.
The municipal atmosphere has cleared wonderfully, and
it has been decided to build the new Town Hall right
away, and on the right spot.
Monday last saw a drizzling day for the Cup meeting,
but the hysterical tendency of the weather clerk had little
or no effect upon the crowd. Ascot has never before held
so many macintoshes and goloshes, to say nothing of
borrowed umbrellas. The scene was one that produced a
yearning for a hand camera ; but even this obvious tip
didn’t suggest to me until too late the wisdom of backing
Snapshot, who slithered in well ahead. There was a fine,
slippery surface, and the best skating horse won. Most
people missed the opportunity even as I did, so the game
little nag of squatter Edkins trotted back into the
paddock in a solemn silence.
His Ex. attended at the new fire station on Wednesday,
and having suffered a terrible address from the Mayor,
he said his little say, drank his tea and ate his cake, and
finally rang the alarm. At that signal there was a turn-
out of the whole force at the old station, and motor,
reels, and ladders galloped up and took possession of the
new abode.
On Saturday a big crowd went to the races, and a lot
of belated confections saw the light. There were many
hideous split coatees, clumsily caught together with
braid, cord or strips of silk. Then there was a daisy of a
review in the Domain, where the Moreton
Regiment did marvels with the popula«piedico Hopkins
at its head, likewise the dandy ambulance corps with
medical brother Sutton in command. A diversion
was caused just prior to the saluting moment; the
Government House milking herd became enraged by
the feu dejoie, and charged down upon the lines. The
army faced the rush of beef like heroes, and drove the
invaders back to grass. Commander and Mrs. Richardson,
Fleet Paymaster and Mrs. Pollock, Lieutenant and Mrs.
Curtis, Mrs. Beresford, Colonel and Mrs. Thomson, and
the newly-wed Mrs. Captain Logan, helped to look on.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


rrntYS
Ine/iovse
c^*
&VAUTX
Qmii
Queensland
at Christmas Time.
nmeys
TneHovse
OWITX
Queensland at Christmas Time is a mighty good place to live in—even better than usual ; for
Queensland people are jolly people, open-hearted, generous. Queenslanders are noted for
their hospitality, their love of giving. But with all this generosity and open-handedness,
they are not extravagant people. They know just how many shillings there are in a
sovereign, and they look for Value when buying.
Naturally, a House that has thrived for nearly half a century in the midst of such a
people must be a House that gives Value—a House that sells reliable goods at Lowest Prices.
Such a House is Finney’s—The Big Block, Brisbane.
This is a list of a few articles suitable for presents. A Christmas Catalogue will be
posted to anyone who asks for a copy.
Presents for Women.
Black Tucked Parasols, 6s lid, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d each.
Black Broche Parasols, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d each.
Black and White Parasols, 3s (id, 4s lid, 6s lid, 8s lid, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
13s 6d, 15s 6d each.
Children’s Parasols, Is, Is 6d, Is lid, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 3s lid, 4s lid,
6s lid each.
Ladies’ Fancy Parasols, in the very latest Colorings, and most Fashionable
Handles, 2s lid, 3s lid, 4s lid, 6s lid, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 19s 6d, 21s 6d, 25s 6d, .29s 6d.
Ladies’ Silver Mounted Umbrellas, Is lid, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid,
4s lid, 6s lid, 8s 6d, 8s lid, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 15s 6d,
16s 6d, 17s 6d, 19s 6d each.
Tussore Colored Parasols, in self, 2s lid, 3s lid; lined with following
colors, Green, Pale Blue, Red, Pink, Navy, 3s lid, 4s 6d, 4s lid each.
Fancy Brooches, 6d, 9d, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is 9d each.
Knives, Ladies’ Pocket, Is, Is 6d, Is lid each.
Mirrors—Nickel Silver Hand Mirrors, Is lid, 2s 3d, 2s 9d, 3s 6d each.
Nickel Silver Round Toilet Mirrors, 6s lid, 8s 6d, 9s 6d each.
Xylonite Hand Mirrors, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d each.
Manicure Sets, Is 9d, 2s 3d, 3s 3d, 5s 6d, 5s lid, 7s 6d, 7s lid, 11s 6d,
14s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s set.
Mats, Fancy Splash, Is 9d each.
Music Cases, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 14s 6d, 18s 6d, 19s 6d each.
Leather Card Cases, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d each.
Frames—Glass Cabinet, Wood Backs, 4d, 6d, 9d.
Glass Paris Panel, Wood Backs, Is, Is 3d each.
Nickel Silver Cabinet, Is lid, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid each.
Fancy Wood, to hold two Cabinets, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 4s 6d each.
Fancy Wood, Cabinet size, Is 9d, 2s 6d each.
Velvet Lined Case containing two Cut Glass Scent Bottles, Powder Box,
with Sterling Silver Mounted Tops, 29s 6d case.
Needle Cases, fitted with useful Needles, Bd, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is 9d, 2s 9d,
3s 9d, 3s lid.
Leather Travelling Jewel Case, 32s 6d.
Leather Writing Cases, Is 6d, Is lid, 2s 9d, 3s 3d, 3s 9d, 4s lid, 5s 6d,
7s 6d, 8s lid, 9s lid, 11s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 23s 6d, 255.
30s, 33s 6d, 37s 6d each.
Leather Jewel Cases, 5s 6d, 6s lid, 7s lid, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
14s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d, 19s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d each.
Leather Writing Desks, 5s 6d, 6s lid, 8s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s 6d.
Ladies’ Dressing Cases, 7s 6d, 8s lid, 10s 6d, 32s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d,
21s, 24s 6d, 27s 6d, 29s 6d, 30s, to 50s each.
Case containing Child’s Sterling Silver Set, comprising Knife, Fork, and
Spoon, 37s 6d case.
Leather Case containing two Sterling Silver Jam Spoons, 19s 6d case.
Leather Case containing two Sterling Silver Salt Cellars and Spoons, 11s 6d,
13s 6d each.
Leather Case containing Sterling Silver Mounted Glove and Button Hook
and Shoe Lift, 10s 6d case.
Presents for Men.
Military Hair Brushes and Comb in Leather Case, 6s lid, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s case.
White Xylonite Brushes, in Leather Case, 21s case.
Sterling Silver Mounted Brushes, in Leather Case, 30s, 35s case.
Sterling Silver Mounted Brushes, without case, 235, 25s pair.
Brush Sets, Wood, Hall or Office • Set, Hat and Cloth Brushes, 5s lid,
6s 9d set.
Nickel Silver Tooth Brush Stands, 2s 6d.
White Cut Glass Sterling Silver Mounted Match Holders, Is 9d each.
Best Quality White Nickel Silver Shaving Sets, comprising Mirror, Bowl,
and Brush, 9s 6d, 11s 6d, 14s 6d, 19s 6d, 23s 6d set.
Best White Nickel Shaving Set, comprising Bowl and Brush, 4s 6d, 5s 6d,
11s 6d, 14s 6d each.
Sterling Silver Mounted China Shaving Mugs, 4s lid each.
Nickel Silver Ash Trays, 2s, 2s 9d, 3s lid each.
Shaving Set, Nickel Silver, comprising Brush and Bowl, Is lid each.
Sterling Silver Shaving Set, comprising Soap Box and Brush, 425, 45s each.
Richly Chased Sterling Silver Shaving Brush, 21s each.
Gent.’s Silver Mounted Leather Shaving Tidy, with paper inside for wiping
Razor on after shaving, 6s 6d, 6s lid each.
Gent.’s Razors, 2s 6d, 3s 9d, 4s 6d, 5s lid, 6s lid each.
Gent.’s Roll-up Razor Strops, mounted in best Electro-plate on Nickel
Silver Case, 10s 6d each.
Gent.’s Purses, Is lid, 2s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s lid each.
Tobacco Pouches, with Silver Shield for Initials, 5s lid, 6s lid, 9s 6d,
10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d each.
Wood Pipe Racks, Is, Is 9d each.
Smokers’ Companion, 4s lid, 16s 6d each.
Presentation Pipe in Case (one), 4s 6d, 4s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s lid,
10s 6d case.
Presentation Pipes in Case (two), 11s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s, 27s 6d case.
Umbrellas : Specially Selected Handles.—ln either Hook, Crook, Crutch,
or Knob styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s ; with Extra
Quality Chased Silver Mounts, Pure Silk Covers, 255, 30s, 355, 455,
50s each.
FINNEY, ISLES <a CO.,
LIMITED,
The Big' Block., Brisbane.


FALIERE’S
PHOSPHATINE FOOD
Bone and tissue forming makes sound
bodies and active brains. Your child
will have good health and a sturdy
frame if fed on Faliere’s . Food. It
contains in a form easily assimilated
all the elements necessary for an
ideal food. Sample tins free from
Joubert & Joubert, 552 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, or Claud Healy, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
FOR CHILDREN
AND INVALIDS,
[i
JftC.
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
are made of the best Rubber,
consequently wear better and |
give more elasticity than the
cheaper grades of Rubber (?)
heels often offered to the public
as a substitute for “ DUNLOPS.”
Our Heels are acknowledged
to be unapproachable for their
quality—a fact as proved by our
sales—6o,ooo a week.
Accept Only “DUNLOP” Brand.
Obtainable Various Styles : Shaped,
Round,Wurtembers, all leading Stores-
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth. Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.
M-c
DUNLOP
MINING
GOODS
comprising; BUOTION & OTHER HOSES,
VALVES, PACKINQB, RUBBER and
BALATA BELTINQ are now used on
most of the leading; Australasian
Mines, because they are the Best.
We are now doing 75% of the Rubber
Goods trade of Australasia, the
result of selling only high-grade
Goods at reasonable prices.
Tenders and Samples Submitted.
Catalogues Posted.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Chrlsubnrch, K.Z. .
KANDY
KOOLA
TEA
“The best i* the country-
side, i* faitb.**
sf
',jold by all Grocers in Red, Blue, and Green Packets.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 16, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik,—
TheDudleys receptioned on the evening of King’s
birthday in a brilliant setting of blazing scarlet.
Scarlet felt carpeted the ballroom, blood-tinted
electrics threw their light through scarlet gera-
niums and azaleas, and the supper tables had
great silver bowls and dishes packed with scarlet
blossoms. From this tropical sunset of a back-
ground, the little Countess glowed out like a
melting iceberg in white clinging satin and crystal.
Ropes of pearls—burning at dull white-heat—
hung round her neck and in her hair, and she
stood at the canopied head of the room while the
reception drifted past her and her Excellent and
Yice-regal husband like a tally of sheep. The
sheep—and the goats, who looked like muttons—
were drafted to pasture nevertheless, for they just
trundled along from outer motor darkness and
cloak shedding, up the room, in a slow push, for
the pump-handling. Then a successful arrange-
ment of ropes (scarlet and gilt) led the flock into
the supper room. The reception was late—in
fact, it only began at half-past ten. For one
thing, a serious matter of food and toast was being
discussed in the mayoral precincts, and at the
gubernatorial board his Majesty King Ned was
being again toasted bsr th® Blevated of the land.
This sort of thing takes time and consideration.
At supper all eyes bulged at the Dudley gold
plate. But even gold plate lost its fascinations
after a time, and the warm languor of the evening
drove the suppered crowd out of doors. The ter-
race, with the fountain plashing, was cool, and
the stars and the soft glow of garlanded
electrics gave the final push to some sentimental
proceedings. The decoration of the shemales
added, as usual, to the picture-making. Lady
Carmichael was all dove grey—a Liberty frock in
Liberty satin. Mrs. Aide Haw-Ruthven ex-
ploited some wonderful Mechlin lace. The Madden
lady’s gear was much sequined and jewelled, and
all the Madden clan was in evidence. The visiting
daughter, Mrs. Osborne, now shows a roly-poly
sisterly likeness to Guy the rotund.
The new gaud-Mayor, Colonel Buraton, came
in his fur and chain harness, and his handsome
dame trailed mole-colored crlpeness. The quaint
little Hederstrom Baroness brought her consul
husband. Knight Best’s wife wore golden gauze
and lace and her own bright golden hair, whilst
the Ewing lady evidenced herself in brown and
pansy tints. The slight Clarke maidens were
pink and white, and frail little Mrs. Russell
Clarke dazzled in white, like the frosting on a
Christmas cake. T. Bent pushed his rotundity
ahead of him in impressive progression, with
daughter Mrs. Bleasby alongside. Big Major
Melnerney brought his golden-haired wife all in
white. The ex-gaudy-Mayoress was in befringed
white and the ex-vice-gaud-Mayoress was impres-
sively purple as regards her trappings. All the
professorin and his wife were there.
The genial Henry Butler, of imposing alder-
manic ease, met with a cruel interruption about
the time of the! King’s toast at the gaud-Mayor’s
dinner t'other Monday night. He fell suddenly
from his chair, very ill, and was carried off to
Surgeon O’Hara’s hospital. Mr. Butler now pro-
gresses favorably, but is forced to subsist for
some time on the expansive cheer of ice and milk
and tender inquiries from the vice-regal and other
distinguished folk who had better luck with their
banquet. Most of the aldermanic and mayoral
guests had their ladies to pick them up in the
motor after food, so that they might progress
swiftly on greased wheels to the Governor-
General’s reception along the road. Mrs. Butler
was patiently waiting, in full regalia, at a club, for
her husband when the telephone dragged her off
to his sick bed.
It was vice-regal day at the Vienna last Wed-
nesday, for the Dudley Countess glode unobtru-
sively in, followed by the G.-G. aides and
aidesses, also nurse and the small family, and a
bottle of sealed milk for the youngest offspring.
The lady’s predecessoress didn’t do such things—
in fact, she would have lifted her repaired nose
in the air at the idea of taking a dish of tea in a
public cafe. For contrast, the Dudley grace looks
down her nose and gathers experiences and in-
formation.
- Lord Dick Nevill, when not immersed in the
duties of chamberlain at the Dudley Court,
appears to be cast for the character of guide,
philosopher and “uncle” to the vice-regal
girleens. Last Saturday afternoon he chaperoned
the little ladies to Wirths’ Circus at Princes
Court, and they had a great, adventurous outing.
They wandered through the menagerie into the
big tent and gloated on feats in the arena until
half-time. Then they wandered around the
Court, with George Wirth in attendance, and
“ did” the side-shows. The water-chute had the
distinction of being “shot” by Dick and the
joyous damsels. They giggled in the Fun Factory
and shuddered along the agitated labyrinthian
way of the Haunted Castle where darkness reigns.
And they helter-skeltered down the spiral incline,
regardless of consequences. The girls sat on the
mat and slid to their destination as though they
had been there before, but the noble lord stretched
himself out for dead ere he started, and was
eventually laid at the terminus full of woe. After
this ordeal he looked like one for whom life has no
more terrors. With a little persuasion he might
have put his head into the lion’s mouth.
The Ballarat Show took a big contingent of
heavy guns from Melbourne. The Carmichael
was in strong evidence, but dropped anything like
gubernatorial state. The cattle breeders took him
to their arms and almost wept over him. He
mixed with them, and talked Ayrshiresand Black
Angus with the best of them. Carmichael is the
genuine cow-and-ox type of Scottish landowner.
The special dinner and the speeches seemed to be
a genial affair. A man tells me that the Car-
michael’s success as a speaker is extraordinary.
His speech is slow and rather hesitating and, at
first, most desultory. He appears as a man who
has absolutely nothing to say, but he shows no
self-consciousness—just rambles on. Suddenly out
of the slowness will leap a most apt and witty
story that knocks the table-full of people over
like so many ninepins. At this banquet
Carmichael’s stories just doubled Deakin up with
enjoyment. Deakin was like a schoolboy
off on a holiday. He had nothing to do with the
speech-making—nothing to do with the toast. He
was not Prime Minister or any old thing of cere-
monial importance, but just a guest and enjoying
himself.
The jumping is rather a good thing at these
shows. One girl, who showed great form at
Bendigo, was riding for the jumps at Ballarat.
She is particularly smart-looking, and rides always
astride, in very smart gear—a long: coat (divided)
and a knee-short skirt (also divided), and long
tan riding boots. A Melbourne bachelor who
saw this Diana at Bendigo and again at Ballarat
was quite bowled over. He discovered that the
dashing, daring, smart rider is Miss Womsley, a
Melbourne dentist, so he is now getting his teeth
attended to. The young lady had a bad fall at a
jump at the Ballarat Show, but pluckily picked
herself up and rode round the course again, to the
disgust of many stalwart Johnnies, who had hoped
to carry a lovely fainting burden off the field in
their arms.
Senator Best’s pretty wife decked her house
with roses and spread Persian rugs on her lawns,
and then perched herself in adorable blue draperies
on the greyof herterracestepstoreceiveherfriends’
congratulations on the Senator’s foolish bauble.
Mrs. Best was a St. Kilda girl, daughter of Croker
Smith, before she married the widower Best and
took his girls under her own girl wing. The girls
are since married—one of them, Mrs. Broad,
helped to entertain. The very newest Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Colonel Burston, was guest-in-
chief, all in blue, with a daughter in very simple
white. Mrs. Colonel Selheim—not long settled
here from Queensland —wore effective garden
white ; so did ex-acting-gaud-Mayoress Davy,
who looked very youthful in her lin-
gerie robe and big hat. Mrs. Hammond-
Clegg, back from jaunting in Europe, wore the
newest of blue fashions in the tinting of her tog-
gery. Dolly Clegg, with her, wore white and blue,
a Dolly Yarden dress direct from Liberty’s. The
two girls have been having an after-school
“polish” jaunting with mama. Mrs. Dorothy
Vane-Menzies, who is an inseparable pal of little
Mrs. Best-Broad, wore an adorable white frock.
Everyone who was not in white seemed to be in
blue, while the lawns were dressed in their
greenest green, and the lawn rugs were soft
colors, and the awnings scarlet. Add to that a
blue day, and the affair was a picturesque success.
Indoors a beautifully mysterious fortune-teller did
the Witch of Endor job, and there were other
attractions.
Our Countess Lady is a brilliant horsewoman—
a lithe, straight figure in the saddle. In her
morning canter she is usually barricaded in with
a goodly man escort. Five men to one little lady
is quite a general and ordinary thing.
The latest divorce that was hustled and harried
along sub rosa, and then partially dropped, has
had a dramatic ending. The husband was found
dead in his bed one recent morning—dead of
heart failure. The nearly-divorced wife is left a
widow, with the weight of two big properties on
her shoulders in trust for her infant twins.
Scobie Gair, solicitor, whirls round his end of
Collins-street enveloped in smiles and the con-
gratulations of his friends. He drew £12,000 (I
think it was) out of Tatt.’s, all on a ten-shilling
ticket, and it was his first flutter in that sweep.
Gair had backed Tulkeroo heavily for the Cup,
and felt inclined to protest when the judgre said
that noble animal hadn’t won. But when he
found that he had drawn Lord Nolan in the
sweep, he withdrew all the hard things he had
said about the judge, and offered to let that func-
tionary jump on his (Gair’s) hat if he felt like it.
Scobie Gair partners in Collins-street law with
Brahe, son of the German Consul for Victoria.
One of Melbourne’s most lamentable infant
Johnnies was said to have “chalked up” an ac-
count of £6O at a well-known restaurant as the
result of the Fleet visit. He was a reckless enter-
tainer of casual Yankee sailor boys during the
days (now almost forgotten) when the city suffered
a temporary insanity. He dined them, and
wined them—and when the reckoning came he
had nothing to meet his liability with save the
remark that he was under age. But a doting
aunt came to the rescue of young Scattercash. She
gave him moneys, so he paid the outstanding ac-
count. Blessed are the piece-givers, whose name
not infrequently is “Aunt.” In the time of
Sheridan’s comedies it was Uncle who paid the
debts of his young relative, but nowadays the
flowing bowl is drained in honor of Aunt—may
her name be for ever blessed !
. The Australians who were present at the Win-
ston-Churcliill wedding in London were struck
with the resemblance of the bridegroom to our
curly-headed Senator of the Apple Isle. He has
the same figure, same height, same curly head,
same full, high brow, same round, full eye, and
the same recklessness about his clothes. Senator
Keating is a fine-looking man, but he wouldn’t
make a crust as a tailor’s advertisement.
Years ago, when this ink-waster was a
flapper, Percy Grainger, the golden-haired, was a
dear little black-velveted boy. He was also the
adored and adoring pupil of Louis Pabst. Even
then Percy composed, and one day brought his
“ master” a fugue, which he presented—in a little
basket of eggs. Annoyed at the precocity of the
child, the hot-tempered German flung the fugue
into the fireplace. “Very well,” cried Percy
passionately, “if you won’t play my music, you
won’t eat my eggs.” And bang went six fresh eggs
into Madam’s clean fireplace. Then master and
pupil fell into each other’s arms. The girl who
had the next lesson (and told the yarn) said
they kissed each other, and wept and wept, so
that her own lesson had to be cut down to a few
odd seconds.
Stella Gastelle floated off Sydney wards last
week. The clever soubrette is considerably in-
terested in our budding girl dramatist, Sumner
Locke, and has taken a small sketch of hers which
she (Stella) intends to produce at music halls in
London when she returns there.
Another of the Melbourne Savages contem-
plates matrimony—Mr. M. J. O’Shea, whom the
Bank of N.S. W. bas just transferred to manage a
new branch at Sunshine—that colony whence
havesters and wrecked trains come. Miss Police-
Magistrate Dwyer is the girl who has promised
to help him make a home of his new quarters.
A big man is dead—A. B. Robinson, for many
years David Syme’s commercial editor, a man who
seemed infallible in fore-figuring. For years his
health had been bad (heart trouble and rheumatic
gout were only two of his complicated complaints),
and his time has been given up to chasing
climate and health. He gave up Age work and
left for England, pensioned by the office,
but with the threads of many commercial ventures
in his hands. Mrs. Robinson, a particularly
bright and witty woman of keen intellect, was
his devoted companion. His sons have all
shown originality and character, and have gone
on widely varying paths. Will Robinson, who
took his father’s place in the Age, is a vigorous
Liberal and Protectionist, and at loggerheads in
political opinion with his lawyer brother Arthur,
whose obsession and frantically-ridden hobby is
the establishment of Freetrade. Another son,
who is a very big operator on the London Stock
Exchange, was known here mostly as part-owner
with Clarke of The Victory, a horse that did
successful battle in a Cup race.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide:—
When you looked outside before going to the Govern-
ment House party on the 10th, you decided that weather
like tijat should never have been allowed at large with-
out a muzzle. By the time you had plunged through the
tramway excavations and breasted the north-south-east-
west, perpendicular, up-and-down dust storm, you felt
that really it should have been destroyed or any-
way kept securely on the chain. Once inside the Resi-
dence gates, however, it wasn’t so harrowing. They’re
beautiful old gardens, with plenty of hoary-headed trees
about, and a nice band concealed itself among the cab-
bages, or under the violets, or somewhere, and there
were several goodly marquees where ice-creams softened
the parched throat. Their Exes, received in a shady spot,
and energetically shook hands with everyone. As it was
their last entertainment before deserting us in December,
they found time to say a personal farewell to every guest
during the afternoon. Lady Le Hunte wore soft white
cr&pe-de-chine and lace and a smart plumed hat; and Miss
Clowes was in cream anglaise—a gorgeous frock. The
Mayoress wore stripes and embroidered lace ; and Mrs.
Max Anderson, a recent pretty bride, was in a beauteous
lace frock over green glacb. The sensation hats were
worn by the two Crozier girls—huge, and stiff-brimmed,
and flower-burdened, and the weight of them must have
needed some growing-up to. Margaret Anglin moved
about in a dream of cream silk and lace, with a golden hat
on top. His Excellency has now gone off on a final
marine excursion round the Gulf ports.
This year’s Federal Art Exhibition is quite interesting,
partly on account of fine work exhibited and partly for
the beautiful way the authorities have captured canvases
for the Adelaide Art Gallery. They are negotiating for
Phillips Fox’s wonderful sunlight picture, “A 1 Fresco,”
and they have bought Will Ashton’s good bit of tone
work, “The Cliff Shadow.” Bessie Davidson has achieved
a fine portrait of one of the pretty Reynell girls, and that
also will adorn the gallery. Miss McPherson’s little still-
life study, “ Cheese,” was bought as a model for the
School of Design ; the same fate befell Hans Heysen’s
zinnias, which aren’t interesting. Yet Heysen’s beauti-
ful pastel studies are left unhonored and unsold. Of the
Hambidge sisters’ delicate portraits, one goes to the
gallery—“ The Rouseabout,” the cleanest and most im-
maculate “ rouser ” I’ve ever seen.
The sensations of the show, however, are two big can-
vases, one 10 X 6, one smaller, painted by an Adelaide
artist, Marie Tuck. Miss Tuck was a school-teacher, but
her voice went on strike, and neither medicine nor arbi-
tration were of any use. So she had to relinquish the
noisy task of teaching c-a-t. She began studying art
under Jas. Ashton, and about 18 months agone went to
Paris, where she has been a pupil of Rupert Bunny. An
early result is the two canvases aforesaid, “The Fish-
market” and “Gossips,” and the former has been hur-
riedly bought for the Gallery. The work is remarkable,
and Miss Tuck ought to thank her stars that her fingers
didn’t give out instead of her voice. It isn’t any wonder
Rupert Bunny said Miss Tuck did more in one year than
he had ever known any other woman do in five.
Among sundry lovely things the Art Gallery didn’t
have enough pennies to buy is a set of little etchings by
Lionel Lindsay, some of which have already been purchased
privately. The authorities are going to hustle for a
travelling art scholarship now, and have already begun to
harry Premier Price on the subject.
The Carnation Show opened itself last week, and Lady
Le Hunte and much of the peerage inspected the blooms,
which were very excellent, and wore their best names.
There were no less than 16 decked dinner-tables, and
several Hall girls, and a Robertson maid, and Mrs. Potter
and Mrs. Herring divided the trophies among them.
Ada Crossley and her very own doctor arHved on
Friday morning, and sundry musical lights and old friends
offered them the glad hand at the place where the train
stops. The same evening the contralto entertained
Major and Mrs. Bassb and the Harold Davies pair at
dinner, and afterwards the Bach Society went out in
force and serenaded her.
Miss Hook and her old father and the pretty girls who
work in the distillery have arrived with their shoes and
their bottles, and the Lady from Holland and Miss
Crossley started their melody on the same night.
Mr. Henry Dutton’s gilded yacht has put on its
summer coat, and has gone off up the Gulf. A gay
party, including the Julian Ayers twain and charming
Mrs. Jim Anderson, are on board, and they are going to
sail the deep and shake every port and island in Spencer
Gulf by the hand until a week or two before Christmas.
Later on Mr. Dutton plots to seek fresh seas and harbors
new, and will cruise round in order to show you t’other-
Staters what we in South Aus. call a yacht. So you had
better get your little Sydney Harbor’s hair in curl-papers
in time.
Death has been working overtime in Adelaide lately.
The other day many friends had to condole with the
Melrose girls over the loss of their mother. Now Dr.
Eitel, Squatter-scribbler Robert Bruce, and Mr. Theatre
Royal Pollock have all passed out. Dr. Eitel, a venerable
man of 80, was a tremendous scholar. For 18 years he
was editor of the China Review —a post he filled after
being head for a long time of the Education Department
at Hong Kong. He has a son or two in the Australian
Inky Way.
One day lately the Stock Exchange end of
Collins-street was held up for about a quarter of
an hour by a rouseabout yarding his cattle. One
poor, terrified, down-trodden moo-cow broke
loose, and refused to be rounded. It stopped
trams, butted into motors, and horned the valiant
son of a furniture cart who tackled it. The
beauteous youth of the vicinity got safely into the
shelter of the Exchange porch and yahooed
valiantly, whilst fluffy girls by the dozen hid in
terror behind them. Then One Moo bolted for
Queen-street and the lawyers. The spectacle when
the inhabitants rushed after it, and collected in a
heap on the summit of the hill, was a fine carica-
ture of the sight when a herd of cattle in a 40-acre
paddock rushes to a rise at sight of a strange soli-
tary human, and stares with heads up and tails
starched.
A popular and wealthy bachelor has departed
from his luxurious suite in a city hostelry and
taken unto himself the greater privacy of a flat.
“He loved the swish of a silken gown,” but
foolishly he allowed the aforesaid swish to be
heard too early in the morning in the vicinity of
his quarters. Also, he mystified a talkative
chambermaid by letting her see a dainty sprig of
“extra curls ” pinned to his mantelpiece. Dainty
as they were, the curls caused unkind comment,
so the bachelor has gone into retreat, as it were.
Saw Pilot Porteous winging a way through
Melbourne to the West. He advance-steps
Hambourg with the Heap of Hair and his slender
lady after a rural trundle through Maoriland.
Mark thinks well of everything in Maoriland
except its prohibition laws, for his manager was
within an ace of being fined for drinking too late
in the evening. All the same, the business-like
pianist regrets the law’s failure in that instance.
A fine of 40s. or a month would have added to his
stories of Australasian travel. And he is a whale
for paragraphic anecdotes.
(Continued on next page.)


“Haresfoofc”: I have seen it in print that the late
Herbert Flemming, before going to. Maoriland, ap-
peared in an amateur performance of “Hamlet,”
at the little London Soho Theatre, with Beerbohm
Tree and Frank Oates. Strange to add, Oates
was the Hamlet, and Tree only Rosencrantz. Some-
times at the Soho there were performances in which
the characters were allotted on a payment system,
like the old British method of army purchase. Thus
you paid a guinea to play Hamlet, half a guinea each for
Ophelia and the Ghost, three half-crowns for Laertes or
the Queen, and so down to a bob for walking on. In
Dunedin Flemming associated with Bentley, in’the days
when Steele and Keogh had the Princess’s and Oassy
Matthews was a favorite actress. Flemming was always
a colorless sort of actor, but immensely useful, a mana-
ger’s man, able to put in some subtlety but not much
character.
AN EVEN MORE SUDDEN
COMPLAINT.
“ What did he die of?” “ A love of tongues.”
"What? Excessive study of dead languages?” “No. Ptomaine poisoning.”
“K. Greene”: “Wait not to find thy slippers, but
come with thy naked feet.” That is what the serenader
implores his lady love to do in one of the songs by Marion
Alsop, the new Australian composer. He wants her to
come and see the sunrise or something, and thinks she
makes an unnecessary fuss over her toilette, and he
realises that, if she waits much longer hunting for her
boots, the sun will be up before she gets out. The song
is a lovely one (“ Maiden, Awake,” words by Longfellow-’,
who w-as old enough to know better), but I doubt if even
it could induce a modern lassie to wander about in the
wet grass with her naked feet, and run the risk of catch-
ing sneezitis.
An amazing thing happened in Paris month before last.
A music-hall manager was fined and gaoled forproducingan
indecent show. The Ninth Chamber heard a number of
charges against various theatrical managers of giving
exhibitions that were “obscene” and “subversive to public
morals,” and in the case of one deChatillon of the “ Little
Palace of Mirth ” found the allegations proved. The jus-
tices wrenched 200 francs from the impresario by way of
fine, and sent him to prison for three months to boot.
His leading lady artists endured fines of 50 francs,
and sentences of 15 days apiece. In the last
eighteen months many of the more daring of the Paris
vaudeville stars have taken to appearing publicly in the
complete altogether. So long as the scantiest shred of
clothing was in evidence the Parisian authorities re-
mained quiescent. But the utter dearth of female cover-
ing that was becoming the vogue aroused a natural anxiety
in their breasts. It threatened, among other things, to
destroy the sale of the nude photograph.
“Avon”: Australia is rife with Shakspearians. Naught
pleases them so much as to recount a visit to Stratford.
Benson’s company has acted there, in the last 20 years,
every one of Shakspeare’s plays, except “Titus Androni-
cus,” “All’s Well That Ends Well,” and “Troilus and
Cressida.” Phelps managed to stage “ All’s Well That
Ends Well ” at Sadler’s Wells, but fell a trifle short of
Benson in the whole Shakspearian round. Both Phelps
and Benson staged “ Pericles.” Phelps appears to have
done all except Benson’s two “omits” mentioned above,
and the “Henry the Sixth” plays, all of which were acted by
Benson. Thus both managers even w-ent so far as to
" Timon of Athens,” which has been acted in Aus-
tralia. I think every play of Shakspeare has been acted
n Ac alia except “Titus Andronicus,” “All’s Well
T> >t I Is Well,”“Troilusand Cressida,” “ Pericles,”the
*>e<" i‘c -art of “Henry IV,” and the three parts of
“ 11 VI.” It would be interesting to know if these
ex'- ii is are erroneous in any particular. Somebody
say- - ; h Bernhardt had a dream after acting Hamlet
at S : rd-on-Avon. The ghost of Shakspeare appeared
insu. uf the other one.
The pursuit and capture of a supposed burglar by a
Burwood (N.S.W.) girl recalls one or two historic
cases of the sort. The most dramatic was that in which
Sophy Harris was heroine—Sophy, whose superb legs
gladdened many an Australian pantomime of a decade
ago. Sophy, who was then a handsome girl in the middle-
weight division, was stopping at an Adelaide hotel when
Bill came through the fanlight, at 2 a.m., and looted her
jewel-case. She awakened just in time to see William.
She assumed that he was a thief, but hadn’t time to as-
sume her clothes. In her flowing nightdress Sophy sped
after the enemy down the stairs and out of the front
door. Along King William-street they dashed as far
as the corner of liundle-street. There the prin-
cipal boy of many pantomimes grabbed Bill
by the neck and threw him. Some minutes
later a cop found a burglar in extremis on the footpath
with a lady in a white frilly thing sitting on his chest.
William got two years’ hard, and Sophy got her jewels
back, and a year or two later went to England, where she
made as big a success in pantomime as she did here.
Eventually, it was reported, she went the way that all
good principal boys go, and married and lived happy ever
after. A more recent case of feminine police work was
at Sale (Vic.), where an uncouth man stopped two shy
country girls on a lonely road and demanded their purses.
Before he could escape the ladies fell on him, and
pounded him with branches of trees, and ferns, and their
fists, and leaped on him, and ran him in, and got him 12
months.
“L.E.”: A Bulletin writer wonders whether “She
Stoops to Conquer ’’ “ ought to be wanted in Aus-
tralia.” I have not seen the present production, but one
would conclude, if Goldsmith is not wanted, Australia
must have no lack of good plays. The truth is, good
plays are so uncommon that when by some chance one is
produced it seems “ dead slow.” This strenuous age of
commerce leaves few people leisure to grow wise.
.People demand excitement from books and plays ; some-
thing to make them forget life instead of to quicken their
perception of reality. A day of business calls for a night
of distraction. People are in no mood for delicacies of
thought and style. Goldsmith bores ; and this at the
time when people flock to see “The Girl of the Golden
West,” “ A Miner’s Trust ” and “ The Scarlet Pimpernel” !
The “ moth of time ” deals gently with Goldsmith. There
are already more spots in “Camille” and “The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray,” two vaunted modern productions, than
in “ She Stoops to Conquer.” The manners Goldsmith
satirised have passed away, but his sweetness and
graciousness and charni of style are qualities that are per-
manent, and as rare as delightful ; while what could be
staler, more out of date, than the latest London success ?
“Salmo”: Anderson has started to serve up to M.L.
audiences a menu of Australian melodrama—‘‘The
Squatter’s Daughter,” and others. I predict a loss.
The Maorilander does not understand Australia, and least
of all the Bush. It is too va>t for him. He is so accus-
tomed to climbing to the top of a hill and seeing the
sea, or at any rate the top of another hill, that he has
no idea of our magnificent distances. Bush to him is a
belt of scrub in the corner of the farm to be, cut down
and burnt as soon as possible. Make the land as bald
and bleak as you can is his motto, and he does it.
Besides, he won’t believe we have any bush. “Aus-
tralia” to him signifies desert, heat and snakes—but
especially snakes, and very long snakes too.
From present indications there is no probability of
Sarah Bernhardt revisiting Australia. It was rumored
that she had been engaged for a short season in this
country some time next year, but, according to a French
lady (la,te of Melbourne) who has interviewed her, Sarah
has no intention of stepping this way. She is running a
Parisian theatre of her own, and, what with her dabblings
in the arts, her tame megatherium and other pets, and
her wardrobe anxieties, her life is quite crowded enough.
Moreover, she is almost middle-aged (she was 64 a little
while ago), and her art is becoming worn and frayed.
Still, even as a wreck she would have all the impressive-
ness of a noble ruin.
“ The Swimmer ” : The biographist has added a new
horror to life by his exploitations of Holv Writ. I saw
Samson done recently “ with all the reverence due to so
sacred a subject.” So the advertisement said. Samson—
spelt Sampson on the programme— was the same fat,
flabby, bogus Jew who takes the part of the angry father
in the girl elopement scenes and other films which the
biograph-owner confidently believes to be humorous.
Sampson was singularly unconvincing. Whenever he did
any feat of strength—such as breaking the chains with
which he was bound, or tossing about half-a- dozen of his
captors into a corner—he smiled greasily at the audience
and bowed. The young lady who represented “ An Angel
from Heaven ” had previously portrayed the bride in the
“Rag Picker’s Wedding.” Somehow, she looked out of
place as a celestial visitant. I recognised Delilah im-
mediately. She takes the part of the jealous rival in
Italian love tragedy films. As Delilah she wouldn’t
enchant the elderly gentleman who clasps the hand of the
private barmaid. In the last scene she cut off Sampson’s
hair with a pair of eighteenpenny scissors. When Samp-
son pulled down the Philistine premises the house ran«-
with cries of “ Good old Sam ! ” There seemed to be an
impression abroad that he was a new strong man
all previous records. All through the Bible is treated
with a friendly intimacy that is reminiscent of the
Salvarmy. Next week the Yiddisher aforesaid is to
represent Adam, and Delilah will be Eve. The role of
Jehovah has not yet been given out.
“ Harrison O.” : One of the most remarkable figures
upon the stage is the burglar. In creating the character
of Sikes, Dickens unconsciously perpetrated a large
wrong. Every house-breaker who has since happened
upon the stage (with the two refreshing exceptions of the
romantic Raffles and Marise Voysin) has been a counter-
feit presentment of the awful William. Walter Howard,
who is usually original in his ideas, is very conservative
in his conception of a thief, and James Lindsay is even
more so in his portrayal of the character of Roystan in
“ Two Little Sailor Boys.” Roystan is the usuai sort of
confiscator, garbed in bow-yangs and an enigmatical cap;
he evidently suffers from a,cold on the chest, and does
not possess 3d. with which to acquire a shave. Every
time Lindsay comes upon the stage he peers about in a
manner that should earn him six months on suspicion.
The least intelligent of Johns would run him in on sight.
But in the play, although he is continually rubbing-
shoulders with comic policemen and detectives, nobody
suspects him of being anything but a perfect gentleman
until the last act. Then the adventuress suspects and
stabs him. It is alleged that the Law is an ass, but Howard
and Lindsay make it out a blithering idiot.
“O.”: I don’t think much of Tommy Burns. His
coming- to this country haS had a bad moral effect. I’m a
big- man, and a fighting man (with my mouth). I never
struck a blow in my life. I had no need. I used vigor-
ous language about throwing- people out of windows, and
putting eyes into slings, etc. The result was that most
people whom I attacked (with my mouth) cringed and
shouted for me. It was rarely I had to shout, and then
only for a man bigger than myself. Now all is changed.
It changed very suddenly. I was in a bar, and wanted
some beer, and said I’d bust up and wreck a little man who
was present, and knock his brains out, and throw them
into the coal-hole, and leave his liver on the tram-track.
Instead of refreshment, this is what I got: “You dirty,
big, crawling cow, I’ll belt the stuffing- out of you.” I
looked terrible savage, and ground my teeth something
awful. My enemy’s mates told him he’d be killed ; but
he replied that I was too big to fight any, and that
Tommy Burns had said the smaller a man was the better
he could fight. Then lie rushed me. I had to shout for
the crowd. I saw in a paper the other day that the
Japs are trying to improve their physique, and increase
the stature of their descendants. Well, if they succeed,
they’ll find their mistake some day—when it’s too
late, perhaps. I was talking lately to Mr. Smudge, the
great comic artist. He says he’s ruined. His specialty
was a picture something like this : A, a big man, is seated
with a loose coat about him, and is mistaken for a small
man by B, who is medium-sized. B insults A. A gets up and
B dies of fright. This is merely a type. Sometimes it is
the fact of him standing in a hole which makes A look
small, and sometimes the same effect is produced by his
looking over a fence. These pictures were bread and
butter and counter lunch to the artist, but there’s no
demand for them now. Still he keeps up his spirits, and
says it will come all right soon. He showed me a picture
of a little man on stilts with trousers to the ground. He
looks a giant about Sft. in height. A (ift. man gives him
backwater. The little man gets off the stilts and the six-
footer faints. Smudge expects this kind of picture to
have a great run. If Burns beats Johnson I’m going to
leave Australia and take my capital with me.
“0.K.”: Surely there is some old significance in the
fact that melodramatists, bound to cater for time-
honored prejudice, have agreed to adopt the apostolic
names of Matthew, Mark and Luke, also certain Hebrew
Bible names, as brands of rascality. The custom is a
concession to prejudice, but the prejudice must be
founded on truth, or it would not have become so popu-
lar. It applies, of course, only to those Scriptural appel-
lations which are used in families of the Christian per-
suasion. The “Christian” name of Matthew, Mark or
Luke has a sound of ill omen on the stage. Likewise
Jonas, Jonah, Elijah, Noah, Uriah, Zachariah, Ezekiel,
Zedekiah, Jabez, or any other cognomen with “ z ” in it.
On the other, David and Adam stand for sturdy virtue.
Paul is accepted as innocent till he is proved
guilty. Peter and Samuel are expected to be
good-hearted and merry, or harmlessly stupid.
Shakspeare gave a low-comedy disposition to Peter,
and dramatists have followed the Bard in that
respect. (One always thinks that the Peter Jarman re-
ferred to as one of the unlawful husbands of the Second
Mrs. Tanqueray must have been a decent fellow with
more money than brains.) But in the other cases the
modern writers of cheap and awful plays are seemingly
guided by what may be called a vulgar conception of
character in nomenclature, formed on a basis of tradition.
The dislike to certain names is instinctive, because it
was formerly reasonable. How and when did the
prejudice originate ? Does it date back to the early days
of Puritanism, when canting hypocrites, with babies to
christen, turned to the blessed Scriptures for names that
had not been personally appropriated by the Jews? And
is it linked to the past by a long chain* of evidence con-'
cerning families in which certain sinister names have
been passed down from generation to generation ?
“Hiphen”: I rise to support “ J.D.” in his remarks
(B. l/10/’08) as to the triumph of the husband over the
lover in the modern French play. In London last
year I saw the comedy “ Divorqons ” adapted from the
French. In it the husband finally walks with both feet
over the foolish and discomfited lover. At the Palais
Royal in Paris I saw a piece, “Le Jeu et la Ohandelle,”
which, though I could not entirely decide what it was all
about, left no doubt as to the final victory of the he-mate
over allcomers. And Bernstein’s play', ‘'The Thief,”
which we saw here recently, though it has little of the
Tertium Quid about it, points undoubtedly to the fact
that the husband in the modern French drama is getting
a bit of his own back after decades of ill-treatment at
the hands of his faithless wife, her best boy and the loose-
moraled dramatist.
The music-hall star is becoming a power in London.
The new Drury Lane success, “The Marriages of May-
fair,” had, as written, a scene in which certain variety
artists behaved as bounders. Protests were rampant,
and within three nights the offending scene was cut
down to nothing. Also, Cosmo Hamilton is in trouble
for having described musical comedy in general as sup-
ported by “ bare-limbed women who were the daughters
of potmen ’’—which was a foolish remark in any case,
and not even witty.
“ Star ” : Possibly many young gentlemen at the ardent
age of, say, 23 would like to know what is the atmosphere
of the theatre behind the scenes when the curtain has
fallen on a vision of light and loveliness. I am in a
position to tell them—it is oniony. In no other place, in
no other company, do you strike such a density of onion.
Onions are good for the complexion and they are excellent
for the voice, so comic opera girls have a deep and abiding
affection for the strong, round vegetable, and eat it con-
tinuously. Chorus and principals are alike in this re-
spect. The affection is not for small, mild onions, but
for large, loud vegetables. The boarding-house keeper
who provides corpulent onions, as strong as cart-horses
or bagmen’s stories, for the chorus-girls’ supper is con-
sidered a good, kind soul, and her house offers all the
comforts of a home.
THE AMAZING VETERAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We drank with an actor old and grey,
And beer he would take, but he favored stout
If one were on hand who was glad to pay
For boose for a star of another day.
That night we were good for a “ thrip’ny ” shout.
The actor roared on his tap-room stage
Of fame he had won in a thousand parts,
Of triumphs he gained in a brighter age,
And how with the dames he was all the rage—
Of billets, and blossoms, and broken hearts.
“My tragic conceptions were acting. How !
The theatres flowed then with strongmen’s tears !
My comedy, sirs”—he smote his brow—
“ You hear no such hearty laughter now.
I am deaf from the roar of a nation’s cheers !
■ ‘ My repertoire—Gad, I was versatile !
This age doesn’t grow any men like me.”
“ Did’st ever play Hamlet?” I asked with guile.
He turned upon me an indulgent smile.
“ My hoy, I created the part 1 ” said he.
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.
IN MINOR KEYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The 1 man that hath no music in himself, ijor is not
moved by concord of sweet sounds, is fit for treasons. -
Merchant of Venice.
Play we slumbrous melodies,
Not thundering- chords and turbid themes,
But soft airs, like a summer breeze,
Wherein the soul drifts into dreams,
Slow-wafted down Arcadian streams
To dim, remote lonian seas.
Play we some ecstatic strain
With strange recurring cadences
As tender as refreshing rain,
And drowsy as the drone of bees
That haunt the scent-exhaling trees:
And pulsing airs that wax and u'ane.
Play we chords in minor keys,
Soft andantes, sad and slow,
Echoing ancient memories,
Like iEolian airs that blow
Through the cedars, whispering low
By the dim Hesperides.
Therein shall the heart have ease,
Healed of wounds the world has wrung,
Lulled by measured harmonies
Into tuneful numbers strung,
And the s'oul, for ever young,
Finds its port from stormy seas.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLER.
It only needs a big race meeting to shout the
triumph of the motor. It will be a long process
of evolution that will turn the Melbourne Cup
into a motor-car scuffle, but already the race-goers
have given up the horse as a means of conveyance
to the horse carnival. It- is all motor. The car-
riage paddock is packed with hundreds of the
spick-and-span machines. All the horse to be seen
is the animal in the shafts of the hired hansom.
Yet, though motors have got such a hold on Mel-
bourne, there are surprisingly few women motor-
ists—women who run their own carsor understand
them sufficiently well to dispense with a chauffeur.
One may hear girls talk motor to no end—talk it
with the enthusiasm and naive mistakes of, say,
a beginner in golf. But there are, perhaps, only
three women motorists in Melbourne, and one of
these can be counted out since a small accident,
when she turned her car head-over-heels in the
thorough and complete way that only a woman is
capable of. In America the shes drive their own
little run-abouts light cars that need no
chauffeur and cost very little to keep up. They
flash around and shop and visit, and just drop
the car outside like a bicycle—to be Dicked up
with the same ease. We are a long time getting
the ’Murkan mote in our midst.
Amy Castles contemplates a trip home in the
very adjacent future. The young lady isn’t going
to bring gown upon gown of amazing Paquin
or other furrin’ make. She fully intends to put
the two or three hundreds or thereabouts of
pounds carefully into a knotted corner of her
handkerchief, and spend the whole biling on Aus-
tralian chiffon builders—in short, she means to
have her frocks made in Melbourne and Sydney.
After all, a platform artist may get as much valu-
able Australian advt. by having her gowns built
on the spot as by bringing them from abrawd.
Miss Sutherland, the kindly old soul who has
rescued and cared for more homeless little waifs
than any other slum worker in Melbourne, and
who has just come through a very bad attack of
hen-pecking, with surely enough scars on her
brave old heart to satisfy her worst enemies, is
one of the quaintest figures about the city. Her
short skirt, mannish coat and old felt hat-
kept on by a piece of elastic under the funny
little “bob” of hair at the back —are insti-
tutions. She has never had time for the
“upper ten,” and is oftenest seen in the little
back lanes, where all the children know her. The
“ upper ten,” however, are aware of Miss Suther-
land. When on a visit to London some time ago,
she was ffited here, there, and everywhere—when
she could be bothered going. One night she had
! t card of invitation to a grand concert at Covent
Carden. It was “command night,” and all the
world and his wife, in their best evening clothes,
went to listen with the King. Miss Suther-
land’s ticket was a front seat one—and when
she presented it at the door an amazed usher,
mildly suggested the removal of her hat before
coming in. “ Right you are ! ” cheerfully assented
the agreeable guest, and, slinging the offending
felt over her arm by its elastic, she followed on
to her seat, and was ushered in beside dukes and
duchesses.
The Melbourne police are her greatest admirers,
and many a tale they tell of the cheerful way she
will get up at any hour of the night and “ take a
baby off their hands” —the mother perhaps locked
up or otherwise incapable of caring for the poor
little waif. There is no fuss, no questionings—just
a gaunt figure rising in the dead waste and middle
of the night, and presently a well-fed baby com-
fortably asleep.
The hay crop in the old original cemetery at
West Melbourne is very abundant this season.
Colossal heaps of rank grass and wiry weeds stand
drying in the sunshine. If the cemetery had
been a burying ground for horses, instead of men,
the ghosts of the departed would probably roam
around at night and eat their fill. A lot of old
tombstone debris and bits of, iron railing were
cleared from the historical enclosure a while ago,
and the mowers have a wider sweep for their
operations than of yore. Eventually the ceme-
tery will be an uninterrupted hayfield, where the
reaper-and-binder will do duty in place of the
grim, significant scythe. Meanwhile the crop is
mown and gathered in the old way, and the pass-
ing preacher pauses to remark that all flesh is
grass, and man is a worm that never dieth. He
pops up every year in the form of fodder.
The shapely form of Mrs. J. C. Williamson was
missed from the Cup festivities. She had the
frocks, but got the ’flu’. Anyhow she was consoled
by the success her two little girls scored at the Alli-
anceFrangaise elocutionary com petition in Sydney,
and J.C.W. was a prouder man than if his Blue
Book had won the Melbourne Drinking Ttensil.
Stonington garden itself is showing the result of
the Talbot lady’s love of flowers. She innovated
the old-fashioned English flowers among the
fashionable beauty roses and the tropical shrubs.
So there are sweet lavender and sedate old sweet
Williams, petunias and hollyhock, and blue love-
i’-the-mist, and thick spring borders of king’s-
penny, and all the other old-time blooms that
make a garden a soft carpet of color.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
Consider Bent—and then consider Deakin.
When Bent brought in his Land Valuation and
Taxation proposals, the Country party said—“We
can follow you no longer ; you must abandon your
policy or your billet.” Whereupon Thomas, the
political jobber, promptly threw over his policy,
even though that meant also throwing over some
of his colleagues. The Federal Labor party also
told Deakin—“ We cannot follow you further;”
and Deakin promptly resigned his office. It would
be interesting to have Bent’s honest opinion of
Deakin.
“ Kamarooka’s ” allegation :
Re the 13 Vic. country shires and their recent £15,000
cadge from the Minister of Public Works (B. 29/10/’08).
It is notable that these raids on the State money-box
always occur when there is something interesting on in
Melbourne. Shire council reps, strike Melbourne at
Show time, Cup time, etc., as regularly as the
Australian squadron. As Bent believes in keeping
in with the cockies and squatters that run the
Vic. shire councils, the deputationists are mostly
successful without any time-wasting argument. Then
they settle down to a free and glorious week, before start-
ing for home and dulness. The councillors take it in
turns to go on these cadging missions. As a rule, things
are so arranged that each toiler in the public interest
gets at least one trip to town, with all expenses paid, in
the course of the year. And during that trip the depu-
tationists pass a whole lot of the rich country* land-
owner’s fair and reasonable outlays on to the hard-worked
city toiler..
If the revival of militant political Orange-
ism in Australia be anything more than the rabid
declamation of low-rung political hacks, it may bo
necessary to decree its exclusion from certain of
the State organisations. The British Govern-
ment excludes Orange lodges from the army. A
few had crept in among the troops, and on t!><-
fact reaching the Government about a du/.< ,
years ago a decree was issued pronouncing si a
lodges illegal. The Australian Government shu id
see that its young army is similarly protected,


*<*?* ■ y "■ - -w E£aa&M
-r»-'
~
~ 'z- U.
l
%
v i
C 4,
SJ;
e*\
V
>
The
Triumph
OF
£
m
Tyres
The Mlchelln Grand Prlx Square Treads are the
practical result ol the lessons learned from the big
Michelln triumphs In the Florio Cup, the Targo Florlo,
the Grand Prlx, and all the big International motoring
events in which Mlchellns figured with such conspicuous
success.
They are the same type of tyre as used by Nazzaro
In his big Michelln triumphs
Made with a narrow tread and greater depth, the
new 90 size Is equal to the old 105, and the new 105 to
the old 120, and so on,
ASK TO SEE THEM.
/
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. Ltd.
234 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY,
and
226 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
SMOKE
EE TOBACCO,
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
GOULDS “Challenge” Force Pumps
Fig. 562
are well and favourably known. They are
used for a wide variety of purposes,- in factories,
mills, residences, and on vessels for filling boiler
tanks, washing down decks, fire service, etc. They
are double-acting, strong and serviceable. All
working parts are brass and therefore not affected
by salt, acids or hot water. The valves are brass on
brass seats. Cylinders either all brass or brass lined,
as ordered. Built in three styles with single or
double, lever or with pitman for connection to Gas,
Gasoline or Oil Engine. Complete catalogue sent
on request.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGE-NCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
Ride only^W
IBROOKSI
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
All
Cycle Saddles
Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,'
England.
PRICE :
10/6
Post Free anywhere.
A Razor with a Guarantee
We are so certain that the PLUM Razor will be more than you even
expect a good razor to be that we guarantee to keep it in order free
of charge for two years. It has extra hollow-ground blade brought to
a keen edge, and is the most satisfactory in the world.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Razoleo Lightning- Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
NEW SELECTIONS NOW READY
ONLY 1/3 EACH.
A glance through these lists will quickly convince you of the
desirability of purchasing some of the new records. The artists are
those whose names are a guarantee of goodness. Why not get
some of the selections for Christmas ?
We’ll send complete lists of machines and records on application,
and supply the address of your nearest dealer. He will gladly let
you hear the new records.
American September “ M ” Records.
9924 Mexican Kisses ( Roberts ) Edison Concert Band
9925 Let Me Crown You Queen of May with
Orange Blossoms ( Helf) .. Manuel Romain
9926 Take Me Out to the Ball Game (Albert
Von Tilzer) .. ■■ ■■ Edward Meeker
9927 Dancing in the Barn ~ Edison Military Band
9928 Hugo (Snyder).. .. & •• . A £*". ones
9929 Sim and Sam, the Musical Coons ( Original)
Len Spencer and Mozarto
9930 Childhood (Mills) .. ... Byron G. Harlan
9931 Dance of the Clowns ( Tnnkaus )
Edison Symphony Orchestra
9932 Mother’s Lullaby (Keefe) .
Matt Keefe and Geo. Stricklett
9933 I’ve Taken Quite a Fancy to You (Morse)
Ada Jones and Billy Murray
9934 Cohan’s Rag Babe (Cohan).. Arthur Collins
9935 Society Swing Two-Step (Franzen)
' Edison Military Band
9936
9937
9938
9939
9940
9941
9942
9943
9944
9945
9946
9947
Somebody Lied ( Bremen and Lloyd) Bob Roberts
Throw Out the Life Line ( Ufford)
Edison Mixed Quartette
Mv Starlight Maid {Klein) Billy Murray & Chorus
Beau Brummell ( Bendix) .. Albert Benzler
Oh, Glory ! {HiU) .. .. Murry K. Hill
Down in Jungle Town {Morse) Collins & Harlan
Flanagan’s Shopping Tour {Original)
° r Steve Porter
Schottische Medley {Kimmble) John Kimmble
Your Picture Says “ Remember,” Though
Your Letter Says “ Forget” {Henry)
Frederic Rose
Tony and Rosetta {Original)
Ada Jones and Len Spencer
Every Mother’s Son There Sang “ The W earing
of the Green ” {Hollander) Edward M. Favor
The Top Notch March {Arther)
Edison Military Band
British. September “ M ” Records.
13731 Army and Marine, March (Zehle)
10 J National Military Band
13732 Following a Fellow With a Face Like Me
(Lvle) Miss Vesta Tilley
13733 All Souls’ Day (Lassen). . .. Philip Ritte
13734 Billy Brown of London
13735 Esau, Take Me on the See-Saw {Murphy
and Lipton) .. ■■ Miss Annie Mars
13736 It’s Better Than Being a Carnegie
(.Darewski ) • .. Jack Charman
13737 The Highland Laddie Pipe-Major H. Forsjth
13738 A Heart Full of Love and a Pocket 1 ull
of Money ( Darewski ) -. Miss Florrie Forde
13739 It Jolly Well Serves You Right {Parrm
and Weston) .. .. B.lly W.lhatns
13740 A Trip on the Margate Boat ( Original )
National Comedy r our
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Labor Party.
From a Victorian Labor man :
“We must take a leaf out of the Labor party’s book,
and learn the lesson of effective political organisation.”
So the Argus preaches ;so the Fat Man says. And the
colossal myth of the Labor party’s perfect political organ-
isation is generally accepted, and in a false security the
sentinels of Labor politics blink heavily, turn over, and
have a snore.
In my State the constitution of the Political Labor Coun-
cil is as follows. A central body, composed of representa-
tives from the various local branches, constitutes the
ruling power. It appoints a central executive to patron
the cause of Labor. In most metropolitan (and, where
practicable, country) constituencies branches are formed.
Their office is propaganda work and the selection of local
candidates for Parliament, municipal councils, etc. These
branches hold fortnightly meetings in any old place—in a
back kitchen, over a pie-shop, anywhere. The attend-
ance is meagre ; the average about a dozen or so.
At these meetings anything from Australian Defence and
national land policies down to the bluntest personalities
are familiarly gossiped. The topic of conversation that
goes the most rounds is “the man for next election.”
Most times these branches dwindle to death, and only
when a conference meets or an election happens
along are they resurrected, and funds are haphazardly
scrambled together. The propaganda work is a total
stranger.
But this part of the league work, though useless, is
harmless. It is in connection with the selection of can-
didates that the real trouble occurs. If the seat is pos-
sible to Labor, about a dozen of the branch members, no
matter how inept, scramble for the job. If the chances
are not rosy, and a forceful and brilliant man is the only
hope of securing the seat, only one enthusiast probably
nominates. Municipal seats go begging. Old Labor men
who have fought the cause of Trades Unionism, factory
legislation, Protection, etc., for years are passed out as
Labor candidates for Parliament and supplanted by
embryo Labor sympathisers. The scheming and con-
niving at these selections shame a pony course
sharp. The old Labor man, or the probable strongest
opponent of some nominator, is put last on the preferen-
tial vote ; and thus the good principle of the vote, like
all voting schemes, goes overboard with a splash. Men
and women canvass the limited number of members for
rhe selection vote. Tins selection irretrievably seals the
“ Labor man.” The choice of a few partial friends makes
the “Labor candidate.” No wonder that the calibre of
the Labor candidates, instead of becoming stronger and
better, as it ought to, is on the down grade. Labor
members of Parliament also naturally suffer by this
method of selection.
This selection business ought to be inquired into by
Labor members, and its evils remedied. Labor members
know of the opportunities for packing meetings, and of
the scheming of these local political bethels. Yet they
do nothing. The old Trades Unionist does not now
seriously or earnestly take part in active Labor politics.
Only 25 out of the 75 organisations affiliated with the
Trades Hall are connected with the P.L.C. My own idea
is that a big blunder was made when the Trades Unions
handed over Labor political control to the P.L.C. But,
however that may be, the selection of candidates for Par-
liament by these leagues needs immediate inquiry.
Within the past few months quite a small fleet of
steamers has been imported into N.S.W. to be
used in the local trade. Apart from the passenger
boats brought out by the North Coast Co.—the
Orara, Yulgilbar and others, and the Moruya and
Tathra belonging to the Illawarra Co.—some half-
dozen colliers and tug boats have recently arrived
or are listed to arrive on the Cornstalk coast.
Any one of these boats is quite within the present
capacity of the Sydney ship builders, as witness
the building of t’iie Federal trawler at Cockatoo.
And if, by means of a 25 or 40 per cent, duty, the
industry of building small iron steamers had been
firmly established ten years ago the local builders
would by this time be just about ready to tackle
an inter-State liner or a Dreadnought. As it is, a
steamer arrives duty free. Yet separate parts
are dutiable, and duty has even been collected
on the vitals of a wrecked coasting steamer after
the thing had been running to the detriment of
the local engineering industry for years.
This is not all. The imported steamers arrive
with imported crews. Sometimes the skipper is
an employee of a local company. Sometimes he
isn’t. The officers of the new boat are surprised
at the rate of pay hereabouts, poor as it is, and
they elect to stay here, and so they do the old em-
ployees out of a chance of promotion. Some of
the coastal officers believe in immigration, just like
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., but they don’t like sailor
immigrants. Even Dr. Arthur’s immigration
ardor might cool if, say, two dozen medical poli-
ticians arrived by each steamer.
1
“ C.D.” on the advantage of securing somebody
else’s grown-up baby :
The w hole trouble about this birth-rate question is not
that Australia’s population does not increase fast enough,
but that there are not enough people here to make the
increase of sufficient importance. Even were the death-
rate to remain unaltered and the birth-rate to go up to the
40 per thousand of Russia, it would be several centuries
before Australia would possess sufficient people to ade-
quately occupy merely the eastern half of the continent.
The seventy millions of white Americans who fill the
United States to-day are not the descendants of
the Mayflower pioneers, not even the descendants
of the two or three millions who stood behind
Washington in the War of Independence, but the
descendants of the mighty billows of English, Irish, and
German immigrants who swelled into the coun-
try after the opening up of the West in the ’forties.
The vast majority of the sailors who looked in
at Australia with the American fleet were first-
generation Americans. The population question in Aus
tralia is the question of development without capital.
Australia has the reef, but it hasn’t got the plant, and it
is trying to pay dividends out of dry-blowing rich stone
with two men and a boy. What is wanted to develop the
payable ore is European capital in the shape of European
men and women. The little Australian is, and always
will be, the best immigrant of all ; but there is a limit to
his immigration, and there is no limit to that of the
ready-made healthy citizen for whose keep and education
some other country has paid during his age of
non-productivity. The half-ashamed howls of sundry
one-eyed Laborites notwithstanding, Australia must rely
on the man from over the sea if it is going to preserve its
national entitv, and incidentally its Arbitration Courts
and its Labor 'legislation and its Unions. The Laborite
who won’t have the white immigrant in the country
won’t have the concessions he has wrung from the other
side for any length of time. And when he is working 15
hours a day for a genial employer named Osaka Kanu-
kitchi, he’ll begin to wonder whether it wouldn’t have
been better to run even a small risk of a slight reduction
in wages for the advantage of having John, Sandy, Pat,
Hans and Ivan standing by his side with rifles, in the
time of trouble.
<>
It is 40 years since Alfred McFarland, Judge
of N.S.W. District Court, toured Monaro,
and 36 years since he published in descriptive
articles, in the S. M. Herald (collected later into
a little volume), his ideas of what might happen
in that region in the future. Take this as a nearly
40-year-old prophecy : “ When the day comes, as
soon it must, that the Australian colonies shall
unite and form a great Dominion, there could
not be selected a more admirable Sovereign
State than would be the great mountain
ranges of Monaro. And where could there be a
more suitable site for the Confederate capital than
the hills of Eden, or a nobler harbor for its fleet
than the waters of its lovely bay, which lies mid-
way between Sydney and Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane, and forms the natural seaport of
the entire pastoral district?” McFarland, who
died a pensioner a few years ago, almost lived into
the time of the great capital site fight, and
prophesied Monaro to the last.


m erit alone gained for the Beale A ustrafan Pianos / the highest prizes
awarded at the Franco-British Exhibition. It is the practice of foreign
piano-makers, when showing at an exhibition, to prepare highly ornate, specially -
designed instruments; but when we decided to send a few Beale Australian
Pianos to the Franco-British Exhibition we had no . time specially to prepare any
instruments, even if we had wanted to do t so. So we just took ten of our
ordinary models out of stock, packed them with' the care with which we always
pack our pianos when sending them out, and sent-them to London. We had never
before publicly shown our instruments in Europe, and the judges had never hitherto
met with them. Yet our Pianos secured the < Grand Prix (the highest possible
award) for tonal qualities and general excellence,” gold medal l for perfection
of woodwork, ” and gold medal for inventions. The jury consisted of three French
and two British experts, and their judgments was unanimous. This triumph for
Australian industry was preceded by another striking evidence of the high quality
of the Beale Pianos. Messrs. Lyons & Co., proprietors of the Strand Palace
Hotel, now being erected on the site of the old Exeter Hall, London, after careful
examination and testing of our instruments at the Exhibition, ordered no less
than twenty .
• t .
In view of these facts, if you intend purchasing a piano, it would be to your
interest to call at our Showrooms and inspect the Beale Australian Pianos.
Over eleven thousand have been sold in every part of Australia, and in New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New Caledonia, Mauritius, India and Norfolk Island.
We have hundreds of testimonials from buyers in all walks of life. Our
catalogue and copies of testimonials will be sent free on request.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
"THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE.”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaid,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next Q.P.0., Brisbane (our only address
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
Cash or Easy Terms. Old Pianos taken in Exchange.
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
POISONOUS HUMORS
In the Blood Overcome by Dr. Mokse’s
Indian Root Pills.
Mr. Thomas «T. Cranwell, a young farmer, of
Rockbank, near Melbourne, writing from the
residence of his parents at Pootscray, states how
blood poisoning set in his arm and extended all
over his body, which the doctors’ treatment failed
to counteract. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
however, afforded him speedy relief. The result
of the first bottle exceeded his most sanguine an-
ticipations. Read what he says;—
“It is a little over twelve months since I suf-
Me. T. Cranwell.
(From a photo.)
fered from blood poison-
ing, the result of a cut
on the right arm, which
I neglected, and from the
arm it extended all over
my body. I was in a
dreadful state, and the
pain was intense. I was
under the doctor for
months, but I did not
seem to be progressing
under his treatment. At
length, seeing Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
extensively advertised I
thought I would try
them, and procured a
bottle. The result of the
first bottle was beyond my most sanguine expect-
ations. I continued taking them until every trace
of the poison had disappeared, and now I am
healthy and in splendid condition to-day, thanks
to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I have recom-
mended them to all my friends, for I think there
is nothing like them, not only as a blood purifier,
but also as the best remedy for diseases of the
stomach and liver.”
As a perfect blood purifier, Dr. Morse s Indian
Root Pills have a world-wide reputation, and
thousands of instances are on record of their effi-
cacy to overcome blood disorders. Pimples, boils,
and blotches are minor forms of impure blood,
which, however, should not be neglected. _ When
the blood is in an unhealthy state, other ailments
are more or less present, for unless the bloody is
pure, it is lacking in that energy by whicu iue
organs of the body perform their functions.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
This coming Saturday George Whelch, of
Akaroa, Maoriland, will row Australia’s giant sculler,
Ben Thoroughgood, the champion of the continent, for
his title and £2CO a side over a three-mile course on the
Hunter River opposite Raymond Terrace. The Mao in-
lander will row at about 9st. 61b., while Thoroughgood
will urge more than 13st. of hard, cheerful meat over the
muddy waters of the Hunter River. Webb, of Maoriland,
reckons that Whelch has more than Buckley’s chance in
the contest, although the local crowd will not admit that
it is possible for the good little man to hold his own
against the good big man. It is unfortunate that the
race is to take place over the Raymond Terrace course ;
had it been on the Parramatta there would have been a
gigantic crowd to see the long and the short of it.
Both Arnst and Webb are now camped on the
Wanganui River (M.L.) some miles above the town which
used to be fortified on an average about twice every 18
months in the old war days. The rivals do not come in
contact with each other very much, and Webb is main-
taining the secrecy and unobtrusiveness that charac-
terised his training in Australia. He is taking tremen-
dous walks, and although popular belief in Arnst as
the winner is growing, this writer is inclined to
think that it will be such a very close race that
there will be nothing to shout about on either side.
Webb is a greater sculler than most people seem to give
him credit for being. A rather disquieting rumor is
afloat to the effect that he badly burned one of his hands
letting off a rocket on King’s Birthday night, but there
are always rumors about things happening to Webb. He
was said to have strained and injured every part of his
anatomy a few days before he rowed Towns, but when
the rowing came off it was evident that he was in perfect
condition and capable of pulling a race with anyone.
* * « *
The cock-surety of some people over the result
of the Webb-Arnst race is a humorous business. Nobody
really knows what Webb can do, for as yet the champion
has never been really extended. During the time he was
training on the Parramatta he concealed his real form in
a way that made the knowing ones look veritable mugs.
Arnst is, no doubt, a phenomenon ; but it is a question
if the other man isn’t also. And, although he has never
yet been pushed, Webb has shown enough speed and
stamina to indicate that he is a sculler of rare quality.
* * * *
As was hastily remarked last week, S.A.
slaughtered Victoria for 219 in the first inter-State
cricket of the season, Carroll (80) and Vernon being the
only batsmen who could look at O’Connor (seven for 92)
and Roy Hill (three for 41). Then the coffin-lid was
hammered on by, S.A.’s 496 —Clem Hill 141, Claxton
80, Gehrs 70, and everyone else useful. Armstrong and
Saunders were quite ineffective, but veteran Laver took
six for 128. But after that the corpse took a hand in the
game. It insisted violently that it was not really dead, and
nearly succeeded in getting out. Ransford, being missed
about five times, made 131, Vernon, Warne and Laver
helped things along, and the total was4ll. S.A., with only
135 to make, found the contract a heavy one, and had
only two wickets to spare at the finish. Mayne, who
went in first, and was not out with 77, had to run the
whole show. McAlister and co. bowled and fielded
keenly, and were helped by three leg-befores, two run-
outs, and at least two cases of plain Nerves. The S.A. men
—who play far better when away from home—had not won
a Shield match in Adelaide this century, nor had they won
against Victoria in Adelaide for 11 years! The public
therefore stayed away enthusiastically all through, and
missed a sporting game. The only men who increased
their reputations were Mayne (51 and not out 77) and
Vernon (57 and 67). Dolling, the Adelaide ’Varsity bat,
was unable to play. Hazlitt and Carkeek were away from
the other side.
* « * *
The descent of the Assyrian on Jerusalem
was a tame proceeding compared to that of Glebe
.on Redfern (Sydney), Saturday last ; and the
smite in the eye received by the army of Senna-
cherib was a mere trifle compared with the smite
with which Glebe was smitten when Redfern’s new
bowler Emery got loose. Four wickets fell for
six in short order, and Glebe groaned in its agony.
Then Cotter came along and, like the plague and
the sword, he smote and smote and smote. His
bat was a windmill arm off its centre, and the balls
flew like hailstones in a narrow courtyard. He had made
70 when he lifted one off Riddell into the paws of
Goddard. When Cotter goes baresark, he is worth
watching. His ferocious swiping stemmed the rot,
and Gallagher turned the tables with one six and
28 fours and a few trifles, which brought his little
lot up to' 166, and saved the situation. As long
as there were partners he stayed there making runs, and
only left when all the rest were out. The innings ended
for 349, after a start which looked like the beginning of a
debacle. At the close of the day Redfern had lost two
wickets for 21 runs. It was the wretched fielding of Red-
fern that made Glebe’s score so big. At Birchgrove Oval
Balmain made an amazing display against Sydney.
The amazement is somewhat discounted by the fact
that Sydney is not a difficult crowd to make
a splash against. Of the 325 runs scored for
the loss of five wickets, Whitting made 100 by play that
was careful, decimally correct, and quite uninteresting.
The features of the Paddington-North Sydney struggle
were Trumper’s 45 and Noble’s duck. Trumper’s little
lot included seven fours, and he was threatening to
do something when Mansfield entered and clean
bowled him. The side was dismissed for 150. Petersham
faced Waverley and made 260 before being finished off.
It was aigood working score, but apparently not good
enough,for Waverley immediately responded with 101 for
the loss of one wicket. As a club of renown Burwood seems
to have gone altogether to the dogs of late, and when
faced by Gordon on Saturday it vanished for 168. At the
drawing of stumps Gordon had made 169 for the loss of
four wickets. Another dreary display was Middle Harbor
and University. The Harbor piled up 198, and the Uni.
responded with 107 with eight wickets down.*
It was a dav of divided honors, bat and ball
having their ownparticular runs of luck and glory. The
only fly in the ointment was that, taken all round, the
fielding was fairly horrible. The only exception was the
picking-up of Giebe, which was clean and sharp. Al-
though only Gallagher and Whitting actually reached the
century milestone, there were a lot of good solid scores,
such as Cotter’s 70, Newton’s 85, Carter’s 60 and Kemmis’s
88 • while scores of over 50 were thick as admirers round
a millionaire girl of faultless beauty. The best exploits
with the ball were six for 47 by Mansfield, of North
Sydney ; five for 42 by Gee, of Middie Harbor ; four for 34
by Norman Deane, of North Sydney; three for 29 by
Hartigan, of Gordon ; and three for 40 by Proud, of the
same club.,
* * * *
Clem Hill is a mighty cricketer. Many times
his retirement from the army of flannelled fools has been
announced ; but Hill doesn’t appear to he able to do
anything bad enough to cause him to retire. The cham-
pion left-hander has scored 37 centuries in first-class
cricket, and piled up 2440 runs against N.S.W., at an
average of 54"22, and 1954 runs against Victoria, at an
average of SOT ; and therefore is on the high road to
being the first batsman to complete 2000 runs against the
opposing States in the Sheffield shield scramble. Taking
the last innings of 141 against Victoria—a team out in all
its warpaint to repeat last year’s success—Clem Hill
seems good enough for many years to come as a rep. of
Australia.
* •* * *
The fourth round of Melbourne pennant cricket
commenced on King’s Birthday and ended on Saturday
last, when Richmond increased its score to 295, Smith
scoring 101 on his own, and lost to St. Kilda on the first
innings by a margin of 142. Which was fairly sudden.
Melbourne, vvith the softest of things on against Colling-
wood, closed its innings with six wickets down for 389,
Vaughan having played a most polished innings for 202
not out; but Melbourne failed to win right out and had
to be content with a first innings’ victory by 241. Essen-
don against South made 185, then had another try,
and scoring 142 for five wickets left South victorious by
168 on the first innings. Northcote, failing to reach
East’s total of 181, lost only by the narrow margin Of 12
runs. Something similar happened to Carlton, which was
walloped by University by 33 ; and the P’ran-Fitzroy
disturbance eventuated, as expected, in an easy win for
P’ran by 136.
* ' •* * *
The cricketing “coach” is in big demand at
present. Auckland, Canterbury and Dunedin (M.L.) will
fill their needs from Australia ; while 0. Greenwood (from
Vic.) goes to West Hobart (Tasmania), and another Vic-
torian goes to a prominent Queensland club. C. Words-
worth (Sydney) and Ayles (Vic.) are engaged by the
Otago (M.L.) Association, and there are plenty of pro-
fessional- ground bowlers and “coaches ” on the principal
Australian grounds, In fact, cricket is getting so pro-
fessional that it will soon be a vice.
* * ■* *
The Sydney Alfred Yachting Club was out again
last Saturday, and the howling wind tore great furrows in
the water, and piled it up in unstable heaps that col-
lapsed suddenly and without warning. In this tumbling
mass the Alfreds ran off the race for the Marshall Plate.
Mr. Lloyd-Jones’ old Thelma, one of Walter Reeks’ long
ago creations, once more came out, and with three-
minutes’handicap, downed the fleet of newcomers. The
sweeping away of the Rawhiti and Thelma was a sight
worth going far to see, and behind them the beautiful
Awanui came plunging through the water at a terrific
pace. The Rawhiti’s gaff carried away, and that vessel
drifted out. Thelma’s spinnaker split from top to bottom
with a roar, and it looked as though the rushing Awanui
would overhaul it. But it didn’t, and the ancient boat,
under an old-time fig, won with 56sec. to spare. This is
Thelma’s second win against, modern yachts this season,
and the possibility of the ancient defeating the Sayonara
is beginning to grow upon people.
That gusty afternoon was a severe trial for the
open boats, which came out reefed down and prepared
for emergencies. It was the Sydney Sailing Club’s day
out, and 13 faced the marker, two having retired. The
new boat, Crescent VII., showed an amazing turn of
speed, and led from start to near the 'finish. And always
and ever Donnelly and Arthur raced behind, within
striking distance. It was in the last 200yds. that the Don-
nelly, suddenly opening out a gigantic spread of canvas as
one opens a gamp, leaped over the water and passed the
leader on the line. The Arthur played the same game,
and only by a desperate effort on the part of Crescent VII.
was it prevented from snatching' the second money. The
rest of the fleet had a stirring time. The Ben-my-Chree
went overboard in Rose Bay. The Famous had its sails
blown to ribbons opposite Bradley’s Head, and was left
literally a thing of tatters. The Australian was disquali-
fied for failing to give way, and one after another four
boats dropped out and hove to, the gale proving too strong.
So far the hydroplane is a thing only to be read
about in Sydney, where the multiplicity of smooth river
waters and the still long reaches of Middle Harbor would
be expected to breed them in scores. And in Yankee-
land the hydroplane is also wilting. Few are experiment-
ing with it. But in Europe they are still devising fresh
wonders, and the latest is a type that is said by its in-
ventors to be absolutely stable and reliable in angry
water. The trouble is that the ideal hydroplane will
have to depend upon the aero-propeller, and the ideal
aero-propeller has not yet been invented.
* * * *
In defeating Ohas. Memmott for the Austra-
lasian professional billiard championship last week Fred
Lindrum climbed to that bad eminence at the early age of
21. It was a game of 14,000 points, in which the boy beat
the man in every department of the proceedings, and
finally ran out when Memmott’s tally was but 8312—thus
winning by 5688 points. Memmott has held the title
for many years. Lindrum led almost throughout
the game, but the best of the play occurred
towards the end, on Saturday last, when he scored 636
points to Memmott’s 68. It was during this burst that
he made a break of 269, of which 267 were off the red,
which is an Australasian record. Lindrum is next to con-
sider Frank Smith’s challenge for the championship and
£lOO a side, after which he is announced to depart for
Britain. Why is not very clear, as there is at least one
other Australian first flighter who is prepared to give him
battle for a reasonable sum, and whom he and his party
seem particularly anxious to dodge meeting. Presum-
ably the young champion is out to make money, and
when a young champion’s friends decide to ignore a chal-
lenge, and depart to other countries in quest of other
victims, one possible inference is that the young cham-
pion’s friends do not feel too sure about the durability of
their champion.
* * * *
Reprint, who finished fourth iE the Dundas
Handicap at Rosehill (N.S.W.) a week before, and whose
running was then “ inquired into,” won Moorefield Flying
Handicap well last Saturday. A bit to nothing of the
shilling sweep is said to have provided the impelling
power. It was different with Fez. Trainer had £3OO to
nothing (shilling sweep again) for Rosehill; Handicap on
Saturday week, but Fez finished among the “other
starters.’ Last Saturday the stable connections never
specked a cent, and Fez won the Moorefield Handicap
from heavily supported Duma and hot favorite Lady
Ruenalf. The elusiveness Of the racing animal!
* * * *
Colt Flaxen, which ran away with the Queens-
land Derby, Saturday week, looks all quality. He appro-
priated Q.T.O. Oxley Nursery Handicap, Champagne
Stakes, and Autumn Stakes last year, and already, pre-
sent season, has won, besides the Derby, the Q.T.C. Flying
Handicap, Queensland Guineas, and w.f. a. .King’s Plate.
Flaxen is by imported Flavus, from Many Colors, and was
bought at yearling sales for 60 guineas.
Signor, a 4-year-old son of imported Pilgrim’s
Progress—Ma Mie Rosette, won Canterbury (M.L.) Cup
(2J miles) Thursday last week in better than Australasian
record time. Previous best, also created in M.L., and
over the same track nine years ago, was Seahorse’s 3inin.
56 l-ssec. Signor set up 3min. 53 4-ssec. World’s record
is Ethelbert’s 3min. 49sec., at New York in 1900.
* * * *
Died at Brandan, Seaham (N.S.W. ), last week,
well-known grazier and one-time turf patron, Mr. W.
Fisher, who owned sensational Brockleigh of some years
ago, having won him in a raffle. He was also interested
in other nags at different times.
* * * *
Something for the man who has faith in the
watch to chew the cud over: Alawa (Bst. 101 b. up)
gathered Victorian Derby almost as he liked in
2min. 35Jsec. ; but with 7st. 91b. in the C. B. Fisher Plate
over the same journey he had to be forced hard to win in
2min. 36Jsec.
Stated that last season Peru would have been
sold for 2000 guineas had he shaped satisfactorily. Since
then the nag has won very close to that sum in prize
money alone.
* * • »
The mannikin who guides the devious gee-gee
in the way it ought not to go, just now remembers
V.R.C. official stenographer Joseph Brennan in his
prayers when he hops into bunk o’ nights. So do other
people. Joseph is a brother of inventor Louis Brennan,
and lately he wrote suggesting that the clever mechani-
cian should construct one of his new mono-rail cars, to
run on an overhead line and carry a posse of eagle-eyed
stewards round the course at the same speed as the
horses. It is a quaint idea, and if it comes off will prove
another woe to the saddle-mannikin whose mount is “in
the bag.” Hence the mannikin and the man who owns
the bag fervently bless the name of Brennan, and wish
they could find the owner of it in a dark, lone place at
night and fully express their affection.
* * * *
Beaurepaire, back from England, where he did
mighty deeds and upheld the honor of his county in a
manly way, tells that he had a hard time owing to lack
of money. Impecuniosity prevented him getting access
to the closed baths constructed for training purposes,
and the English do not seem to be over-hospitable in
these matters, so Bogey had to train in open-air resorts
where there were no distances marked off, and he was
at considerable disadvantage. Later on, money be-
came more plentiful, and Bogey got a chance to
check his times and train properly, and then the
Englanders saw things. When he arrived in England no
one from the Association met him, or troubled to hunt
him up ; and he was left severely alone. The contrast
between the warm welcome the visiting athlete receives
in Australia and this infernal frigidity cue Bogey to the
bone. He is not enamored of visits to England. But
his record was wonderful. He won four English cham-
pionships, the 220, 440, BSO and the mile, besides many
other minor championships. In 21 starts he gained 16
firsts, one second, one third, and was unplaced three
times only. In Belgium he won the Mile Championship
and the 1000 metres, besides local championships, and in
France he walked away with the 500-metre championship.
And the English sports allowed a man like this to come
into the country with just as much welcome as they ex-
tend to a Polish Jew tailor or an Italian anarchist. Grand
sportsmen, the English !
* * * *
American automobilism beggars a Roman show
in the Roman’s goriest days. Recently a 24 hours’ race
was held on a racing track just outside New York. A
policeman was crossing the track to get a limejuice and
ice when three cars came round the corner at a mile a
minute. The pciliceman tried to dodge, but one of the
cars caught him, hurled him 40yds. or so, and then
vanished in the dust. The driver knew he had struck
something, but did not slow down—his anxiety was lest
the object, whatever it was, might have injured his tyres.
It hadn’t, and he rushed on to win with a record of 1177
miles in the 24 hours. Car after car went smash till six
had been obliterated and five people were more or less
severely injured. The policeman died an hour after
being struck ; his back was broken and almost every bone
in his body fractured.
- * * ■»
The great English automobile track at Brook-
lands is to be rivalled in the U.S.A. There a crowd of
wealthy road hogs have formed a company for the pur-
pose of laying down “ the finest track on airth.” The site
selected is on Long Island, and the new road will be 60
miles long. The natural undulations of the country have
been preserved. The cost is figured out at £535,000, of
which £160,000 has already been expended. At present
25 miles have been completed, and over this section
Yankee driver G. Robertson averaged over 60 miles an
hour for 258 miles. The surface of the track is composed
of two layers of concrete, reinforced with ljin. mesh wire
netting, whilst all corners are banked to take a speed of
100 miles per hour. The course is expected to be com-
plete within two years.
* * * *
The allegedly effete and played-out Briton is
making a final splash, and the Royal Automobile Club of
England is constructing a regular palace in Pall Mall, at
the cost of £250,000. Ned Rex is a member of this club,
which has 3750 members, and its new rooms will be the
finest of the sort in the world.
* » * *
The only part of Australia where professional
cycle racing seems to keep its head above water is in
Westralia, where the Kalgoorlie Week will see £6OO put
up for the men of the legs to divide among them. The
chief event is the Westral Wheel Race, with a prize list
of £2OO, and after that the £l5 Goldfields Flutter (lovely
name!), the Invitation Scratch Race, worth £lO, and
eight others. If a sufficient number of prominent
racing cyclists visit Kalgoorlie the promoters
will increase the number of scratch races to
a point that will repay them for their trouble.
On New Year’s Night the Kalgoorlie Caledonian Society
will also run a cycling meeting, with prizes totalling
another £2OO, of which the chief event will be the
Caledonian Wheel Race. A swimming carnival will also be
held, while the old codgers and the new young men will
have excitement provided by some bowling and croquet
tournaments, for which valuable prizes, will be put up.
Altogether Kalgoorlie is going to have a wild time during
Christmas week.
* * * *
The Austral Wheel meeting will take place on
December sth and 12th, the location being the Melbourne
Cricket Ground. The Austral prize list is a gamble, 10
per cent, of the gross takings being ear-marked for that
purpose. The minimum for the great wheel race is to be
£lOO, and the maximum £4oo—to be split up, of course.
The chance of the gross takings amounting to £4OOO is
considered fairly remote, so there is not much danger of
the Austral placed men being ruined by unaccustomed
wealth.
Besides the Austral the meeting will consist of
five other events, with a total prize list of £llO. These
races are the M.B.C. Plate, Victoria Mile, Derby (scratch)
and a Teams Handicap. Besides cycling, there will be
balloon ascents and parachute descents, which will, of
course, be as visible to those who don’t pay as to those
who do.
* • * *
T. J. Gascoyne, the English bikist, who is
throwing challenges about to Australians in heaps, got a
nasty rub at Newcastle (N.S.W.), the other night. He
conceded Dick Mutton 220yds. in a five-miles challenge
paced race ; but Mutton won easily, with a lap to spare,
and his performance took a great deal of the starch out
of the Britisher. Gascoyne, however, won the five-miles
scratch event, at the same meeting, from Bestel and
Mutton.
* « » *
Champion bikist George Horder is getting in
good trim again after his recent smash-up over a dog.
He gathered in the five-miles championship, at Mudgee
(N.S.W.) last week, from road champion Tom Larcombe,
and many others. The average bike-rider will stand a
great deal of smashing before he considers he is sufficiently
knocked about to retire.
* * * *
Although the Queensland country footballer can
more than hold his end up against the ball-kickers of
Brisbane, the bush cricketer makes a poor show on the
city’s turf wickets. In the annual match, played in
Brisbane on November 7 and 9, City made 613 (Simpson,
142 ; Hutcheon, 92 ; Hayes, 86 ; Thomson, 78; and Har-
tigan, 59), while the Bush could knock up only 91.
* * * *
Someone, apparently an ex- Watchman con-
tributor, sends along this cheerful lie. When Arthur
Cripps was farming in N.S.W. he was kept busy ducking
and side-stepping the heavy leads that very popular
priest, Father Carroll, aimed at his conscience. Afraid
of being peremptorily ordered to attend to “ his duties,”
Cripps always kept out of the way ; but the Father cor-
nered him one day while ploughing, and finished up a
chat on the weather and the crop prospects so : “I have
read that Billy McCall is very attentive in his duties, and
before going across to Melbourne to fight a man there,
attended confession. Now don’t you think, Cripps, that
a man like that would have the help of God in a fight
with one that neglected his duties?” “ Mebbe, Father,
mebbe, but do you know who he went to fight? ” “I do
not, or if I do, I disremember 1” “ Well, Father, it was
me, and I licked the head off him,” replied Cripps. Then
it was Father Carroll that side-stepped and slithered
along the ropes to safety.
■x * * *
Twin Jack Sullivan, having contrived to miss
his steamer at Vancouver, the Mclntosh is raging round
looking for a fine fast sparring companion for Mr. Burns.
When he first learned that Sullivan had lost the ’bus
he cabled to Squires and made a liberal offer. The reply
took even the Mclntosh’s breath away. “ Sorry can’t
train Tahmmy. Wish him luck. Will fight the winner.”
Squires has evidently no proper perception of the fitness of
things. “Fight the winner !” The man must be one of the
sort who never know when they are beaten. In the
meantime there is an opening for a smart pushing young
man who understands the gentle art of putting a head on
his brother.man.
» * * *
The Anglican Synod took official notice of the
impending Burns-Johnson scrap last week, when one
speaker denounced the contest as dangerous and brutal.
He said the gloves were mere shells, and he displayed a de-
plorable acquaintance with the game. Later on he said
he didn’t object to amateur bruising—he had been an
amateur himself once —but he objected to fighting
for purses. If men put heads on one another for
fun, it was manly ; if they did it for a living it was de-
grading. The Archbishop was non-committal. He said
he would like to know more about the construction of the
gloves, as much depended on that. But in spite of the
cold water the Archbishop threw on the proposal the
motion to request legislative interference was carried.
The best thing the Mclntosh can do is to send along free
front seat tickets to the ex-amateurs of the Synod in
double quick time.
Although so far no referee has been selected for
Boxing Day, the matter is not worrying the gentlemen
interested, as has been reported. Burns is still anxious
to secure Jeffries, but Jeff.’s unholy terms make him just
about impossible. . In all human probability the choice
will fall on Mr. Nathan, who controlled the Squires down-
fall, and did it with conspicuous success. Ilis knowledge
of the game is beyond question, and his fairness is the
personification of impartiality. Jeffries may be an excel-
lent referee,-and have more knowledge of the Yankee
style, but a fairer and better judge than Nathan is just
about impossible. The only thing is that he is deficient
in bulk and weight for the separation of two great plung-
ing pugs, but that difficulty can be got over by the
employment of a butter —some vast hunk of bone and
muscle who, when Nathan says “Butt!” will just get
head-first between the fighters like a locomotive interfer-
ing between two struggling mastodons.
The Sydney Stadium is to be slightly en-
larged for the historic scrap, and the different
sections are to be securely fenced off to prevent
any rushing of the ring and crowding of the
centre when the fight is over. With one ex-
ception the prices are to be the same as for the Burns-
Squires disturbance, and that alteration is that the front
row of seats has been raised to £lO each. Already orders
are flowing in, and over £5OO worth of seats have been
demanded. A feature of the business is the number of
seats that are being booked from the United States.
These Yanks take bruising so seriously that they' are pre-
pared to come half-way round the world to see a cham-
pionship scrap.
The professional pug in Australia has a long
and rocky road to climb before he gets high enough to
cut at a £lOOO or £5OOO purse with a world’s champion.
Bill Lang told a Melbourne bench the other day that out
of his fight with Starlight he got £5 ; that with Bob
Fraser yielded him £5 10s. ; Hock Keys, £l3; Farley,
£l2 ; Williams, £33 ; Malley Jackson, £63 ; Kling, £56;
and Bob Fraser again £10 —£217 10s. for eight battles.
But by that time he had got a good way up, and the
scraps with Johnson, Griffin and Burns doubtless panned
out better. Lang’s share of the Tommy Burns purse was
understood to be £6OO, but it was stated in court that
his net whack was only £2OO.
* * * *
“Snell”: Australia’s pug stars are certainly in
the descendant, but never was an Australian champion-
ship lost so cheaply as when Arthur Douglas, a Boer
rough-and-tumbler, accounted for Hock Keys, possibly
the cleverest boxer Australia has produced since Griffo.
Hock lasted 15 rounds against the kind of fighting' he
would have fairly revelled in at his best, but he was out
of spirit, out of condition, and utterly unfit to battle for
a paper bag of nuts, let alone a championship and a
bale of coin. The S’African is a tough, strong, willing
pug, whose genius lies in an immense capacity for taking
pains, but Keys did not appear to pain him a great deal
at any time, although the Australian’s left shot into his
face with frequency. And yet Douglas had to be lifted
out of the ring when it was ended. At his best Keys
would eat up Douglas as he ate up Frank Thorn —the lad
who, a little earlier, fought a draw with the Boer. As it
was, he was exhausted in the 15th, and called for the
wipe. Douglas may now go to America as lightweight
champion of Australia—which is his ambition—and meet
Battling Nelson. And that event will certainly result in
further Yankee comments of a scurrilous kind on the im-
portation of Australian lemons.


KUGELM ANN’S
©
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The SUMMER is here, and with it has come the “ SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
* them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones
4349 Central.
29 Katoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE,
38 Castlereagh Street,. Opp. Australia Hotel.
Racing Cyclists
The B. & B. Machine has gained more
places this year than probably any other
single machine.
Send us your name and address for our
new catalogue we are publishing shortly.
It will describe our machines fully.
df
Our B. & B. Model 3
is a light-weight Roadster,
built of the best British
parts, fitted with first-
class tyres, and guaranteed
for twelve months.
Price
o£// ree Wheel and
back-rim brake, or coaster butt,
20/- extra.
BENNETT & BRRKELL
The Largest Cycle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagti Street, Sydney,
GOD’S GOOD WOMAN
m
R
///<
Mrs. Smith, the Avenue, Wool-
lahra, says “lam a mother after
13 years’ misery. Dr. IDA CARL-
SON'S Treatment cured me. She
is God’s good woman.”
WHY SUFFER?
These Remedies and Treatment get
to the Root of Female Ailments,
because they deal with them Con-
stitutionally and Locally. Send 2d. Stamp for Free
Book. BRITISH DRUG CO., E.S. Bank, Georjre and
Kin-r Streets, SYDNEY.
Translated French Ncvels.
(Some Illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogues from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2Jd
C. ARTHUR, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
... The ...
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street. Sydney,
How a Moustache Improves
the Appearance.
It Alls out the features and gives you a better appearance. If you
are having any trouble with yours, try CAPILLARINE.
It will soon produce a moustache where none exists, or will bring
your present “ straggly ” one on to perfection. CAPILLARINE has
a 25 years’ successful record behind it as a guarantee.
Price 10/0,
post free, in plain sealed wrapper,
to anj- port of the world.
?,idi
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
w?
PERFECTION
TOBACCO,
IN PLUGS and CUT UP
IN TINS, 2oz. and 4oz.
Every Pipeful is a Pleasure.
The Finest Blend of Fine Tobaccos.
PERFECTION
LIGHT AND
DARK.
HORSE GAGS, 45/-,
Complete with Bridle.
CORRESPONDENCE PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
LATEST VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
IN STOCK.
The DONALD ROSS
Anti-Abortion Outfit,
20/-
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
AND PREPARATIONS.
The DONALD ROSS
Emasculator, 63/-,
HUNDREDS SOLD.
DONALD ROSS & CO. LTD.,
Angel Place, off 127 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The DONALD ROSS
Mange Treatment, 8/b
per course. Cure Ab-
solutely Guaranteed.
sd
THIN PEOPLE.
THERE is now no reason why every man or woman should
not acquire or regain a Perfect Figure. If you want
to add flesh, be made plump and rosy, gain weight,
strength and beauty, send for a Free Trial Treatment of
the “ Miracula” Nerve Food and Flesh Developer.
This newly-discovered Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing
Agent and Flesh Builder. It will scoa put your nerves
right, tone up your digestive organs; and the alteration in you
will astonish yourself and friends. Would you like to have
perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all
scragginess ? You can easily obtain this blessing if you
write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps to pay postage
on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
fds
London Specialities Agency, Dept. At 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
CHEAP QUEENSLAND LEASEHOLDS.
Forty miles from Central Line, 55,000 acres, good tenure, low rent, good, healthy
country permanently watered, well improved, 15,000 mixed sheep, chiefly young ewes, 150
cattle, 35 horses. £12,500.
Fifty miles from South Western Railway, 500 square miles, of which half is good sheep
country, Myall Plains chiefly, red soil, well improved, 7000 to 8000 well-bred Durhams, low
rental, good leases, 92/6 per head, 8 per cent, calf allowance.
In Centra] Queensland, 22,000 acres, 28 years’ lease, low rental splendid sheep country,
well watered, 8000 sheep, 85 per cent, lambs at foot. Think £7OOO for quick sale.
Fifteen miles from Central Railway, 40,994 acres, thickly-grassed country with nice
edible timber; well watered, creeks, springs, etc., well improved, good house, etc., 10,000 sheep.
£7OOO cash. p or further particulars apply to —
MEW ZEALAND LOAM & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO. LTD.,
Stock and Station. Agents, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
*3WION3 3N3105V9
m§l OAU
fd
Power that
Produces Profits
fd
The Engine illustrated above is our new Two
Cylinder Vertical “1.H.C.” equipped with automatic
air starter.
In it are embodied the latest and most improved
ideas in engine construction. Price and particulars
on application.
Meanwhile, if you are going to be in need of
an engine during the next twelve months you ought
to send at once for full particulars of Special Offer
to those who place orders in November and Decem-
ber, 1908.
The offer applies to all kinds of “1.H.C.” Gaso-
lene Engines — Stationary, Portable, and Traction.
You can order for delivery to suit up to May,
1909, and the terms are so Exceptionally Easy that
you can, after the first small payment, pay as little as
ONE SHILLING PER DA Y.
Over 100,000 “I.H.C.s” sold in 3 years—a strik-
ing proof that these Engines PRODUCE PROFITS for
their owners. Apply to -
International Harvester Company
of America, Incorporated,
Roma St., Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 545 Bourke St, Melbourne; .
Bank St, Adelaide; 75 York St, Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General Agents for Western Australia.
(251)


WHAT TO GIVE for XMAS
A. SAUNDERS.
d T ?- AY ’ . ? ure Silver-plated on White
Metal, Satin Finish, Hand-engraved.
POST o/6 FREE.
Other styles, 4/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
NAIL FILE, Solid Sil-
ver, Embossed Handle,
Open, 3in long.
POST 3/6 FREE.
Other styles, 4/6. 5/6, 7/6
The perplexing question of the year is what to buy at a moderate cost as a
Xmas Gift that will combine all the elements of practicability and usefulness.
HERE ARE A FEW HELPFUL IDEAS.
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE -
Will prove of great assist-
ance to you in the selec-
tion of appropriate Xmas
Gifts. It contains over
3000 illustrations, and it
is to be had for the ask-
ing. Write for a copy to-
day. You’ll certainly need
it for your Xmas Shop-
ping.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely
Embossed and Ornamented, Silk-lined, size 4Jin x 2Jin.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6. 12/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS'.
GENT.’S BRUSH SET, Solid Silver, Hand-
somely Embossed, Fine Bristles, in Solid
Leather Case.
POST 20/- FREE.
Other styles, 25/, 40/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
OUR
MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT
offers to distant patrons
the same facilities as are
extended to local patrons.
Our system of Free Car-
riage on all goods, with
the exception of Clocks
and China ware, means a
big saving to you.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver Mounts,
and Screw, Straight or Bent Stem, in case.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed, Fine White Bristles, in Velvet-lined
case, 15/0-
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/, 36/, 40/, 50/.
’r.rr>r rr
WJWflraKgr
A. SAUNDERS.
SILVER DORCAS
THIMBLE, Steel Lined,
Very Best Quality.
POST 3/6 FREE.
Other styles, 2/6, 3/,
3/6, 4/6.
r.r. T ™, A - SAUNDERS.
LADIES HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver, Richlv Em
bossed, Long 1 White Bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PLUSH GLOVE BOX, Embossed, Silver-plated Nickel
Silver Mounts, Silk-lined, size lOin x 4in
POST 4/6 FREE.
HANDKERCHIEF BOX to Match, size sJin x sJin, 4/6.
TOILET MIRROR,
Soliu Oliver, Richiy Em-
bossed, Bevelled Glass,
F"ll Size. £2-
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed, Long White Bristles.
POST 7/6 FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
MANICURE SETS, i pieces, Solid Silver
Mounted, Richly Embossed, in Silk-lined
Case.
POST 25/- FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 20/, SO/.
SCENT SPRAY PUMP,
Silver Mounted, Crystal
Glass, 4in high, 15/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver, Handsomely Embossed,
Long White Bristles.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Size Larger, 20/. Extra Heavy, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE BOX, Pure Silver-plated Nickel-silver, Hand-
somely Embossed, Silk or Gold Lined, size llin x 4in.
POST £3 FREE.
With Handkerchief Box to Match, £5/10/ Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S AUTOMATIC RAZOR
STROP, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed.
POST 13/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUJSi,^„.
GENT.’S COLLAR-STUD BOX,
Pure Silver-plated, Satin Finish.
Other styles, 3/6, 4/6*, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Richly
Embossed, Gilt-lined.
POST 20/- FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDSOME PRESENTATION TOILET SET, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed,
Marguerite Design, Finest Quality Bristles, Complete in Silk-lined Morocco
.Leather Case. POST £lO FREE.
Other styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, to £25.
WAX-MATCH HOLDER and ASH-
TRAY, Pure Silver-plated.
POST 4/6 FREE.
To hold Safety Matches, 5/6.
PUFF or TOILET JAR, Pure Silver-
plated on Nickel-silver, Embossed
“Cherub” design, size 2|in.
POST 2/- FREE.
Other styles, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/.
lIAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed, Extra Fine
Long Bristles.
POST 20/- FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 15/, 20/,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS
BOOKMARKER, New Zealand Greenstone Handle, Solid
Silver Blade and Mount, 3Jin long.
POST 4/6 FREE.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 13/6.
LATEST STYLE BACK COMB, Imitation Tor-
toiseshell, Gem Stem, Fancy Scroll Mounts, Well-
set Stones.
POST 7/6 FREE.
Other styles, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/
20/ to £2/10/.
HEAD SALTS BOTTLE,
Fine Hobnail-cut Glass,
Solid Silver Top, Sin
high, 7/6.
Other styles, 5/6, 8/6,
10/6,112/6.
XMAS BUYING MADE EASIER.
Attention is invited to the many attractive suggestions
to be found in our fine extensive Showrooms.
The diversity of our stock makes Xmas
buying easy here.
TOILET SET, Solid Silver-mounted, Richly Hand-
engraved, comprising Shoe Lift, Glove Hook and
Stretcher, and Shoe Hook, Polished Steel ends, in Silk
and Velvet-lined Case, 20/-
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE HOLDER, Real Amber, Gold-mounted, in
Richly-engraved Solid Silver Case, 2£in long.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6.
A. - SAUNDERS.
h..uv BRUSH, Solid
Silver, Richly Em-
bossed, Long White
Bristles.
rOST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/0, 15/,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK OOMB, Imitation Tortoiseshell, 9-ct.
Gold Scroll Mount, Extra Secure Mount, full
size.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S. W.


u
0
C
\K\W
— C yp
x
o
V
3
n §
**
MM.D\S
Its a saving of time, temper, money and arti
light, and gives
Infinitely Better Results
for all exposures, correct or otherwise, than the old,
happy-go-lucky method of see-sawing the film up and
down in an open dish.
Or, if plates are to be developed, the
EASTMAN” Plate Tank
will do the work accurately and thoroughly for you on similar lines,
and the
PREMO Film Pacß Tanß
is of equal value for the development of film pack negatives. These modern appliances add
largely not only to the pleasures of Photography, but
MaKe Life Better Worth Living'.
SEND FOR OUR LATEST PRICE LIST.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
•Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
BILIOUSNESS AND ALL LIVER TROUBLES
Removed by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
mm
3*
KUTNOW’S
Improved CrrcßvcsccNT CarISBAD
POWDER.
ay 1
flit-schcnsprung or Deer Leap
L?
4 m London
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.t t
REGISTERED TRADE MARK, £
W HEN liver troubles arise from any cause take a dessert-
spoonful of Kutnow’s Powder in the morning before
breakfast. The action of this refreshing corrective is materi-
ally hastened by a cup of hot tea taken about ten minutes
after ; in twenty or thirty minutes the desired effect is attained,
and the entire system is cleansed and invigorated. Kutnow’s
Powder has been before the public for a period of over
twenty years, and is most strongly recommended by the
leading Physicians for Biliousness /and every form of Liver
Trouble. It is speedy and painless in action, pleasant to
the taste, and suitable for men, women, and children.
Rev. C. E. WINCOTT
WRITES
“ About three years ago I was confined to my bed for
a short time with a very acute attack of liver complaint.
I was recommended by my doctor to try Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am glad to say that after taking two bottles
I was completely cured, and my health has been better
ever since. I have since recommended your excellent
preparation to quite a number of sufferers, who testify of
similar results.
“(Incumbent of St. Philip’s Church, Adlington, Lancs.).” 1
sole: PROPRIETORS :
S. KUTNOW & GO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
HOW TO DETECT
FRAUD!
The genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be
had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the World. See that the
fac-simile signature, “S. KUTNOW
& CO., LD.,” and the registered
trade-mark, “ HIRSCHENSPRUNG,
OR DEER LEAP,” are on the carton
and bottle. You will then
Get GENUINE
Kutnow’s Powder.


Missing Friends.
CECIL DODDS ELGEY.
AIS Y PERSON who can give any information
regarding the abovenamed, who was last
heard of in the Rockhampton District, Queens-
land, whether living or dead, is requested to furnish
same to Mr. E. ,T. ELGEY, Gilbert River. George-
ADv a Ti ßl l sl n d .’T? r to Messrs - J. G. WILSON
ORNSBY & CADLE, Solicitors, Stockton-on-
lees, England, who will pav any expenses
incurred in connection therewith.
ROBERT TULLOCK.
XF this should meet the eye of ROBERT
J- TULLOCK, miner, aged 50, last heard of at
Coolgardie, West Australia, about four years ago,
please communicate with his brother THOMAS,
Lord Byron Inn,
Franklin Street, Shieldfield,
________ Newcastle on Tyne, England.
TT'DWARD BERNARD, otherwise EDWARD
BEDARD BRUCE, last heard of in Tupra,
JSew South Wales, 1905, or anyone knowing of his
whereabouts, is requested to communicate with
Harris & Harris, Solicitors, Wells, Somerset, Eng.
Professions, Etc.,
ROSS GOLDFIELDS LIMITED.
APPLICATIONS are invited by the ROSS
GOLDFIELDS LIMITED for the position of
Mine Manager and Engineer
(COMBINED)
to take charge of the whole undertaking of
the above Company. Preference to be given
to the applicant who has experience in elec-
trical pumping and workings in deep alluvial'
mines. Applicants to state remuneration re-
quired. Travelling expenses to be paid by the
Company.
Hokitika, N.Z.
JAMES PARK,
Secretary.
*
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something- every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day,
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
A MIRACLE OF CHEAPNESS
MAGAZINE CAMERA
And Photo Outfit
Complete with Chemicals, Dry Plate, Print-
ing Frame and Book of Instructions.
2/6 the Lot —Only 2/6
and we pay carriage.
PHOTOGRAPHY is
i one of the most
fascinating- hobbies,
j but hitherto the cost
of the apparatus and
the trouble of manage
ing it have kept many
from indulging in the
art. Now, however,
with a Quarter-Plate
Magazine Camera and
Outfit of chemicals to
be nad for the mar-
vellously low price of
28. 6d., photography
may be adopted by
anyone. What, can be
more interesting than
taking portraits of
your friends, views of
places you visit, pic-
_ tures of all kinds and
snap-snots of quaint events and curious characters? The
lens is of good quality, the plate carrier exposes one plate
after another without risk of failure,and the time and instan-
taneous shutter is very simple and reliable. The outfit in-
cludes Developing and Fixing Chemicals. Dry Plate and
Book of Instructions, fully explaining .how to use the
Camera, how to take pictures, how to develop, fix, print tone
e-jd mount, also directions for enlarging and bromid* work
Kavmg purchased at auction at far less than cost prices
the entire stock of an importer, we can sell these poods at
tnw hitherto unheard of figure. There are only about one
hundred Printing Frames, and these will he given free with
He?.- 111 ’!* °r, h eu dr l d orde , rs • 7°u Should, therefore, not
OelKj. Send 2s. 6d. at once by postaKnote of any State to
The Union Hifcj. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
fd
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
* Lessee and Manager :J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING at 7.50 sharp.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
BETTY OHLS > iIR - ANDREW
S I ICTuR GOURIET, REGINALD
EGBERTS, W. S. PERCY, CLAUDE BANNOCK,
D. B. O CONNOR, IVY SCOTT, FLORENCE YOUNG
and others), in Lehar’s World Famous Work
THE MERRY WIDOW.
■yHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
MARGARET ANGLIN in SHAKESPEARE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 21,
MARGARET ANGLIN in a Unique Production of the
Master Dramatist’s Immortal Comedy,
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
MARGARET ANGLIN as KATHARINE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE NATIONAL OPERA COMPANY,
Under the Direction of Mr. JOHN WREN.
Last Two Nights of LES CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 21,
THE LILY OE KILLARNEY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Popular Opera Prices—ss, 3s, Is.
P A V, A C£ .THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Harold Ashton and Allan Hamilton.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. A BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
H. li. ROBERTS, in the Enormously Successful Comedy,
THE PRINCE CHAP.
as played by him 150 nights at the Criterion Theatre,
London.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY AT 2.
PRICES —3s , 2s. and Is. • Booking fee Is. extra. Early
Doors, (id. extra. Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale, White Rose.
T H
: LYc H U M HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. c. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
new subjects every week.
PRICES—2s. Gd., Is. Gd., Is,, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s,
I“HE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
“ Back to tRe Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, &Gd Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
Pn A i V ?° ERS ’, DRAMATIC CLUB.
Under 1 atronage of his Excellency Sir Harry Rawson
Grand Production of J. C. Lee’s 4-act Plav
WREXHAM’S DUTY,” in aid of the Veterans’ Fund ol
the W omen s Branch of the B. E. League. Tickets, 2s &Is
I lans at Paling’s. A. CHAMBERS, Hon. Sec. '
T IYRYI . T” E A T RE > SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr.' Harry Richards. '
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
G FRA T NK ld d 'lt'v pA’iY V Nr' aliStS and Ecoentric Dancers
n f A wV| l f4'Av L p r^ A ’ Musical Comedy Artists.
rriTi!YY \ R ‘, ( 7 RABY ’ -Burlesque Character Comedian.
THREE MCGREGORS, Xylophone Experts and Musicians.
EI ™ OANS HOYAL scotch collies.
MISS VERA BUTTEL, MISS NITA LEETE
AND ALL'OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., Is. 6d., and is. Plan at Paling’s.
I PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BARNARD TROUPE OF MANIKINS.
THE TYRIiELLS, Juvenile Song and Dance Artists.
THE GREAT MARCONIS, Electric Wonders
THE RENO SISTERS, Quick Change & Specialty Dancers.
GOODFELEOYV & GREGSON, Comedy Artists & Dancers
HODGSON & LOWTHER, Comedy Sketch Artists
Plan at Allan’s. g&- PItICES-3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
Re-appearance of MR. JULIUS KNIGHT & CO
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL
JULIUS KNIGHT as SIR BLAKENEY.
OLA HUMPHREY as LADY BLAKENEY
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as' usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
FOR A LIMITED SEASON ONLY.
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
THE EEMALE SWINDLER.
Popular Prices.
Plan at Allan’s.
T
HE BULLETIN POST
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
third week of
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
THE PRINCE OE PILSEN
A DELIGHTFUL MUSICAL' PLAY.
Lessee & Manager .. M ‘r. Frank Thornton.
Direction .. Edwin Grach.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 21, ‘
Farewell Appearance here of FRANK THORNTON in
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
Mr. THORNTON as the REV. ROBERT SPALDING.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Booking- Pee Is. extra. Early Door Gd. extra.
ALBERT CLARK, Acting Manager.
*J"HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
HARCOURT BEATTY and MADGE McINTOSH
in Victories Sardou’s Celebrated Play,
EE DO PA.
Prices—3s., 25., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
w
A,
IRTH’S OLYMPI
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
vvr,'iwi.A v ?;Ic. Y Evening, and matinees
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THE
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
a tv Change of Programme Each Week.
An 'u!v'vrr"T , .T,,i VOrthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PDPIIMV West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at, Glen’s.
lA/IRTH BROS.’ Greatest Show on Earth
WIRTH’S PARK, MELBOURNE
(late Princes’ Court),
THURSDAY, FRIDAY. SATURDAY, NOV. 19 20 21
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
AN UNPRECEDENTED CIRCUS.
A Colossal Theatre-Circus, a Complete New Company,
and the £lOOO GIRAFFE.
Ihe First and Only Live Giraffe ever in Australia.
Popular Prices—4s., 35., 25., Is. Children Half-Price
except to Gallery. Plan at Glen’s.
MAKE YOUR OWN
AERATED WATERS
with an
“AUSTRAL”
AERATED WATER MACHINE,
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
The Latest Improved “AUSTRAL,”
With Automatic Syruping Attachment.
USED IN OVER 1000 HOTELS IN AUSTRALASIA.
The Original Machines will make
300 doz. Aerated Waters per day.
Requires no Skilled Labor—no Special Bottles.
Aeration superior to any other.
Prices, *lB and upwards.
Catalogues and Full Particulars from the
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Eckersley & Sons,
628 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Queensland Agents :
ELLIOTT & HANCORNE, 113 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australian Agents :
WM. SANDOVER & CO., Hay Street, Perth.
South Australian Agents :
EVANS & CO., Linde’s Lane, Adelaide.
FOURTH SUBDIVISION
OF THE
FAMOUS ST. AUBINS ESTATE,
SCONE, N.S.W.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
THIS SUBDIVISION COMPRISES
THE HOMESTEAD and HOMESTEAD BLOCKS
OF RICH AGRICULTURAL, FATTENING and GRAZING PADDOCKS,
with about 400 acres of
THE MOST MAGNIFICENT LUCERNE LAND IN THE STATE.
The HOMESTEAD Area, about 1089 acres, with the F-UTHFTTrrv tuttt t new
MODIOUS and COMFORTABLE HOMESTEAD, known t S? AUBINS IeItI 'S
jvery modern convenience, surrounded with tastefully laid-out grounds gardens orcWd«
vineyards, eta ; with MANAGER’S RESIDENCE and every
rTtIWA V ST^rfoN 6 ! “ e ’l 7 '?| lOSe t 0 tlle To »" “ f Sconaand the SCONE
RAILWAY STATION (one nnle), and its easy distance from Newcastle anM Svdney should
DAIRY ESTATE' 101 * ° f gent emen on the lookout for >in IDEAL STUD FARM or MODEL
LIBERAL TERMS.
Descriptive Catalogues will be obtainable in a few days from the local Auctioneers Messrs
r. A Simpson and Co Edward Higgins, Parkinson and Co., Snape and Co., Rowland and
Jodds, Norman Ebsworth, or H. H. Brown ; or from the owner,
Mr. W. BAKEWELL, St. Aubins, Scone.
111 show the Age ! I’ll make it howl !
Irags like these abusing public men ! We’ll have
a daily Hansard of our own, and use our adver-
tising money in the public interest. Then the
Age can squeal.” These splutterings were thrown
oil by Thomas Bent at a Melbourne Orange ban-
quet a, sort of fruit soiree. Apparently,
tommy's idea of a daily Hansard is a pretty
« a lovely three-color picture of a glori-
fied Bent on the front cover, halo and wings com-
plete, and much letterpress descriptive of
tommy’s angelic qualities as a man and his splen-
did capabilities as a politician. Having'failed to
build a reputation on sand, Bent thinks he might
succeed better with a paper foundation.
“ T.T.8.,” from Queensland
The Conservative party in Queensland has once more
srot rid of an obstruction by wiping William Kidston off
the political slate.
When Tom Glassey was cutting into the very founda-
tions of the Conservative structure in Queensland the
same party recommended that Tom should be sent to
lasmama to represent the people of Queensland on the
edera.l Council, and they told Tom he was the'only man
capable of filling- the position. Toni did not suspect any
intrigue, and he had already commenced to develop a
strong susceptibility to flattery. So he set off with his
meagre costume and his port., which was then a sugar
nag. lorn was made much of by the grandees in Tas-
mania, and he imagined that all his past life had been so
much time lost through associating himself with the
Gabor party. The climax was reached when Tom drove
in the State carriage to Parliament House in Melbourne
tom returned to Queensland with a top hat and a long-
tailed coat, and never again seriously troubled the Con-
servatives.
William Kidston has been drawn into the web in the
same manner, only on a much larger scale. Through the
intrigue of Philp and co., Kidston was enabled to get
away to the Exhibition when the hostility of the Labor
party might have delayed him. Kindly noblemen in
England took the “Hon. William’* everywhere, and he
even had the excitement of running over a cyclist in their
company. William Kidston, on his return to Queensland,
rushed over to the Conservatives and joined their ranks.
Kidston, like Glassey, and like the empty whisky bottle,
is a thing of the past. ‘
Several Perth (W.A.) butchers cut them-
selves severely with one of their own knives the
other day. They had formed a little ring, and
decided to put up the price of meat; and as the
m P r f got out of the public the more the
wholesalers would be able to get out of them,, the
wholesalers said, of course, that it was a very good
scheme, and they wouldn’t supply fat stock or
meat to any butcher who didn’t join in. One man
stood out; whereupon the ring said that it
wouldn tbe good for his health. When he found
that his supplies were stopped he began to reckon
that it wasn’t. Then he wondered whether the
Law allowed that sort of conspiracy ; and when
he asked it, through Judge Booth, the Law said
it had no doubt in the world about it, and quoted
£2OO eS ’ The jury reclcone d damages at
Wade’s worries in connection with his
hopeless N.S.W. Industrial Disputes Bill seem to
have induced a rush of blood to his head He
sent this wild wire to Premier Price, of S.A., last
Friday :
Papers to-day report statements alleged have been
made in your House, which seem to question the bona
tides of this Government in regard to the Murray Waters
.Bill. I strongly object to such statements. Notice to in-
troduce the Bill was given immediately I heard that the
agreement had been signed by your Government. Such
unfounded statements will seriously prejudice the passage I
of the measure in this Parliament.
Price replied acidly as follows
Cannot control my Opposition. Hope you are more
successful.
Wade has exploited some futile grievances in his
time, but the tearful complaint that a Labor
Premier hadn’t been able to make his Anti-Sosh
opponents behave like gentlemen and rational
human beings is something rare in the way of
weeps.
Victoria’s latest Minister of Lands (whose
name will still be Hunt unless he fails to get re-
elected) has announced several things that he’s in
favor of. Firstly, he is in favor of Bent. Apart
from this dominating prejudice, Hunt is in favor
of closer settlement, the “bursting up of big
estates, ’ ruining development, increased produc-
tion, national prosperity, and good seasons for
poor farmers. Finally he is again in favor of
more Bent. The one thing he has forgotten to
favor is a graduated land-tax.
“ E.F.” on political cricket:—
Seems to me that no cynieal person could read
the story of the Australian Parliament this last fort-
night without feeling a contempt for the tactics'
of politics, and a disrespect for the pressmen who
report them so respectfully. The question that
largest amidst this conflict of tactics
was What would happen under certain conditions of
Parliamentary procedure if George Reid were to antici-
pate AndrewrFisher in catching the Speaker’s Eve’ There
were other questions of burning interest—none of them
remotely connected with the interests of the Common-
wealth that I could discover—but this question as to the
Speaker’s Eve was the one that chiefly agitated students
of the situation. Federal politics appeared as a
sort of game of cricket, with the Speaker’s Eye
for the leather. Deakin’s innings was to close when the
Speaker's Eyeball was caught, and the lucky man who
secured it would put it in his pocket and go off rejoicing
to the Gov.-General’s pavilion. Fisher effected the
catch, and now his side will take the wicket. The news-
papers left one in doubt as to just what would have hap-
pened had Reid brought off a clever left-handed catch.
Would his side have gone in or would the umpire have
cried “Not out,” and ordered the Deakinites to go on
hatting? Party Government is a quaint business, and
fall of quaint problems like this one about the Speaker’s
Eye.
One of the few remaining members of the
N.S.W. “Iteform Parliament” of 1859, Mr.
F. A. Cooper, died at Melbourne on Thursday!
He was born at Juniper Hall (now Ormonde
House), Paddington, in 1834, his father being
Robert Cooper, a well-known distiller in old Syd-
ney. He was elected to the Assembly on June
20, 1859, defeating Mr. G. B. Simpson, now Jus-
tice Simpson. Mr. F. A. Cobper was called to
the Bar in 1864, and practised in Queensland.
He represented Cairns in the Queensland Legis-
lature for a time. After retiring from Queensland
political life, he went to Maoriland, where he also
practised at the Bar. Then when bad dayseaiqe
upon Maoriland, he shifted to Melbourne, was
“admitted” in 1883, and practised at the Bar
some more. Worn out with practising at four
distinct Bars, he died prematurely at the age of
74. He was uncle to Chief Justice Cooper, of
Queensland.
When Arthur Griffith returns to theN.S. W.
Parliament after being re-elected, the Wade
Government will try to look as though it didn’t
know it suspended him, after demanding an
apology which he wouldn’t give. The trouble is
a very ancient one. The British Government
kicks members out of the House of Commons, the
electors fire them back, and the venerable Con-
stitution, though feeling badly treated, drops the
matter. Peel, when Prime Minister, devised a
plan for such circumstances. If a member were
suspended or expelled for refusing to apologise,
and if he presented himself for re-election, the
returning officer, before accepting him as a can-
didate, was to insist on receiving from him the
apology in question. But the Cabinet did not
support Peel, so nothing happened—which is what
happens oftener than anything else.
George Reid has at last announced his
resignation of the leadership of theTorv party in
the Reps. But even this may be a yes-no. There
is praetmally no limit to the yes-no possibilities
of hr. Reid.
According to the Sydney . Telegraph,
George Reid said at Yass that “there are only
two parties among the people.” Well, The Bul-
knows of at least three—the Dry Dog party
the Dog-Tired party, and the Stinking Fish party’
On the other side are the Australian people.
The Industrial Court (of which Court
Railway Commissioner Johnson was a member)
which investigated the Sydney Tramway men’s
grievances has decided that the espionage system
over which all the row took place, is un-
just, and must be modified. The Court,
of which Chief Commissioner Johnson was
a member, was also equally divided as to whether
Harold Croucher was guilty or innocent, and
only by the casting vote of the chairman did it
decide that Croucher was guilty. Under these
circumstances, it is only fair that Chief Com-
missioner Johnson should re-instate the mem-
bers of the victimised Strike executive. The
Court, of which the Commissioner was himself
a member, has decided that they struck against
an unjust system. And on all British precedent
men have a right to strike or even rebel
against injustice. Thev believed Croucher
to be the innocent victim of the system
the Court has just declared unjust, and
it is to their everlasting credit that they went
on strike in defence of a man they believed
to be an innocent victim of a system that is now
legally condemned. At the Centenary Hall
.Johnson promised the men justice, and if his
word is of liny value, then, in the face of the ver-
dict of the Court of which he was himself a mem-
ber, he must reinstate the men who struggled
against injustice.
While Tom Mann and the “Inter-
national” Socialists are getting clods heaved at
them tor scorning Arbitration, and pushing the
workers on to revolt, the Fat party in S. Aus. is
doing exactly the same thing, and isn't getting
halt the clodding it deserves. The other day
Tat, through its special Chamber, heaved out in
one great heave the Government proposals for no
less than 16 Wages Boards. In other words, it
denied arbitration in 16 directions at once—evi-
dently on the ground that the conditions in those
into and Calllngs wouldn ’ fc stand being inquired


Why We Should Have an Australian
Oil Industry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The writer is driven to advance some reasons
why Australia should have an oil industry by the
amazing remark of a reader of the last article who
said :
“ After all, as long as we can import it as
cheaply as we can make it, why should we go to
the trouble of making oil ? ”
He was a sensible enough citizen in most re-
spects, and the only sign of mental weakness
writer had noticed about him previously was his
habit of talking Freetrade. However, as it seems
there are still people in Australia who consider it
necessary to show reasons for establishing any
industry, the writer proceeds to endeavor to
advance some why Australia should develop its
great oil resources, first, by means of a bounty of
threepence per gallon on the manufacture of crude
oil; and, secondly, by a heavy duty on petroleum
in any shape, and on all its by-products.
These reasons may be grouped under three
heads: Economic, National, and Imperial. A
fourth and overwhelming reason is that it is only
downright national lunacy not to have it.
* * * •
ECONOMIC.
(1) It would be a vastly profitable industry that
in course of time would grow to enormous dimen-
sions, till Australia became a great exporting
country, and possibly, in view of certain contin-
gencies, the petroleum store-house of the British
Empire.
(2) We have the largest and richest deposits of
oil shale in the world. At present we have to sell
£2,000,000 worth of wool, grain and general ex-
ports in the dumping ground of the world to get
£2,000,000 of gold to send away, mostly to the
United States, for petroleum and its by-products.
If we made pur own, we would not only keep our
£2,000,000 in our pockets, but also re-
ceive several more millions from other
countries for our splendid oil and oil spirit,
to say nothing of the more valuable by-products
of our shale oil, And if it is not national lunacy
to continue to send abroad £2,000,000 annually,
when we might be receiving the same amount
several times over by having an industry of our
own, what is public folly?
(3) We are losing our shale by thousand-ton
shipments. The far-seeing German, who declines
to be rooked by the Standard Oil Trust, has
proved the richness of our shale; and he wants
thousands of tons of it. So has the Frenchman,
who finds that it helps his great perfumery trade
along, his fancy leather trade, and a score of
his other industries. So has the Briton,
who buys it to enrich his gas and stimulate
his chemical industries. And now the Austrian
has sampled it. And all these people want
thousands of tons of our shale, so long as the
supply can be maintained and guaranteed to a
certain richness; this' the Commonwealth Oil
Corporation’s great Wolgan Valley railway
has made possible for the first time in our history-
And they will get it, unless Australia makes it
more profitable to the people who are shipping it
abroad to manufacture it here. So we have to
choose whether we will let the foreigner have the
benefit of the full value of our oil shale, or keep
it for ourselves by encouraging the industry by
either a stiff duty or a bonus on the manufacture
of crude oil. We are going to lose the shale,
anyhow. No sane nation can hesitate which to
choose.
In brutal truth, we are a nation of fools who are
selling for between £2 and £3 per ton raw material
where we ought to be selling the finished products
by the gallon, and at shillings per ounce. We
are being diddled and got at by the cuter peoples
of Europe, and deserve it for our folly. In other
words, Australia supplies theshale hewers and the
laborers who load it up, and Europe supplies the
highly-paid chemists, the intelligent artisans, and
the printers, the packers, the refiners, the dealers,
and we pay' them through the nose for doing
what we could have money out of doing for our-
selves and them. Was ever such a case of national
folly ?
(4) The Oil Industry is not one like some that
Australia has put up money to encourage, an
industry which will benefit only one or two of the
States. For although N.S.W., and Tasmania in
a less degree, are the only portions of Aus-
tralia that have endeavored to develop their oil
resources, there is every probability that
the industry will be yet developed on a
large scale elsewhere. Oil shale is a thing
that has only during the very latter years come to
be generally understood of scientists. Deceived
by the liquid petroleum of Russia and Asia Minor
in the first place, and the United States in the
second, men scoffed at the idea of oil shale till the
richness of the Scottish shales opened their eyes
and let wisdom in upon them with a mighty and
sudden rush.
Westralia has oil-bearing country near the
mouths of the Warren and Donelly Rivers ; be-
tween Cape Leeuwin and Point d’Entrecasteaux ;
on Fly Brook and at Lake Jasper. There are also
deposits of bitumen on the Fitzgerald, and every
storm leaves large hunks of oil-shale along the
coast.
South Australia has it in the Miocene shales of
Leigh’s Creek and between Kapunda and Ade-
laide. Along Encounter Bay there are deposits
of elastic bitumen, known locally as coorongite.
Good indications of liquid petroleum occur at Salt
Creek, near the mouth of the Murray, and at
Bodertown, Ethel’s Cove (near Normanville),
D’Estre Bay, Kangaroo Island and the coast at
Kongorong.
Tasmania has proved its oil by refining some
from the shales of the Don Valley, which beds
extend away to the estuary of the Tamar, and
another extensive mass is located in the Inglis
Valley, inland from Table Cape.
Victoria has bitumen at Portland and Western
Port; petroliferous shales at Coal Creek and near
Traralgon on the Latrobe River. Alberite, a
highly bituminous shale, occurs near Cape Patter-
son, and there are undeveloped indications of oil
at Bridgewater, north-west of Melbourne.
Queensland has enormous deposits of kerosene
shale, similar to those of N.S.W., along the
northern flank of the Macpherson Range. Oil
shales also occur among the Tertiary rocks of the
Dawson River Basin, and gas and oil have long
been known to exist in the Triassic rocks under
Roma, where the spouter was struck the other
day.
As mentioned before, the N.S.W. oil shale
deposits are the largest and richest known in the
world. They start a little north of Twofold Bay,
sweep inland to Kiandra, and then away north-
ward via Jervis Bay, Joadja, Hartley Vale,
Wolganand Caper tee Valleys, Ilford and Barrigan
to Ulan on the western outcrop, and to
Murrurundi and Greta on the eastern escarpment.
At Coolah there is ozokerite ; on the coast, 40 miles
north of Boonda, there is white petroliferous wax;
at Coonabarabran there is bitumen ; at Narrabeen
natural gas; and in the Triassic rocks below
Grafton, both oil and gas.
This list does not by any means exhaust the
category of places where oil in some form or other
is to be obtained. But they should be sufficiently
numerous to convince everybody that a great oil
industry is not only possible in Australia, but
absolutely screeching to be developed, and that
it is an industry by which every part of Australia
will benefit.
(5) The establishment of an oil industry in Aus-
tralia would have a stimulating effect on many
other Australian manufacturing enterprises. Once
the business was put on a sound footing, crude oil
works would spring up all over the country, and
create a huge demand for machinery of a sort that
is easily constructed and which could be quickly
turned out by Australian foundries. The avail-
able supplies of locally-produced petroleum and
bitumen would make for the local manufacture of
linoleum, damp-felts, high-grade tiles, scents,
vaselines, ammonia in a variety of forms, paints,
colors for dye and ink making, and many other
things too numerous to mention. It would keep
in Australian pockets the fortunes that are being
made by Europeans out of our shale. The
German, the Frenchman, the Briton and the
Austrian have all tested it and proved its wonder-
ful value. Many fortunes have come out of
Hartley Vale, and they have all stayed in the
pockets of the men beyond the seas. All the
profits on its splendid wax, its ammonia, its
vaclite, its vaseline, its water-clear oil, its rich
lubricating oils, its coloring matters, its volatile
spirits, and its amazing oil coke (which burns
without flame, smoke or ash) have gone, and
stayed in alien pockets. If the industry is
established those profits will stay in Australia and
help to make our people well off.
(6) Australian shale-bearing country is all placed
within a comparatively easy distance of the sea.
And once the initial difficulties, such as means of
access, etc., have been overcome, this continent
must inevitably become a great exporting country
of petroleum and its various by-products. The
trade in these substances creates other trades,
especially with semi-civilised peoples like the
Chinese. Take the case of U.S.A. oil as an
example:—
When U.S.A. oil went into China originally, it
was burned in the native lamps, which were far
from good and not made for using kerosene.
Gradually Yankee lamps followed Yankee oil, as
a foal follows its dam; and then, curiously
enough, Yankee clocks followed Yankee lamps ;
and right on the western confines of the Celestial
empire Rochester clocks and lamps are used by
people who never heard of the United States. And
all over Central Asia the kerosene-tin has become
valuable as a bucket, boiler, and general re-
ceptacle.
Australia lies nearer to China than does the
United States, and if we could persuade the
Chinese to buy all their buttons from us, it would
keep some thousands of button-makers busy all
the year round.
(7) The creation of an Australian Oil Export
trade would bring about a tremendous increase of
employment. It could be provided that bounties
would be payable only on oil shipped abroad in
steamers made in Australia, and that to earn the
bounty at all, Australian-made machinery must
be used. Great pipe lines would be laid over the
face of the country from the ports of shipment to
the refineries in the Blue Mountains, oh the Mac-
pherson Range in Queensland, and to the oil
centres of other States. The pipe line is a
much cheaper method of transporting oil than
trucking it. But, all the same, large quan-
tities of oil would be carried over the country
in tank trucks to places where pipe lines did
not radiate. And the building of these trucks
would make for employment and investment of
Australian capital. The Australian tin mines
would benefit by the increased demand for tins,
Australian chemists would have good careers
opened to them in devising new uses fpr the by-
products of which Australian shale oil is so pro-
lific.
Summed up, the economic reasons why Aus-
tralia should have an oil industry, fostered by
bounty or duty, are that it wants all the industries
it can get; that the establishment of an oil indus-
try starts many subsidiary ones, and stimulates
many existing ones ; and that the country is so
richly endowed with oil in the shale form that it
has almost a national fortune in it once the initial
difficulties are overcome; and, finally, tha't if it
doesn’t turn its shale into wealth itself, it will
be turned into wealth by aliens in foreign coun-
tries.
* * * *
THE NATIONAL REASONS.
Australia wants more population, and requires
it in a bigger hurry than any other white country
on earth. Shale working is more advanced in
Scotland than anywhere else on earth; and
the establishment of a great shale oil industry
would cause Scotsmen to flock here by thous-
ands. Scotsmen are good immigrants, and an
industry that will lure them to our shores
by thousands should be established immedi-
ately, because, sooner or later, we have to
fight for this continent, and 5000 Scotsmen, with
their families, will make a first-class acquisition.
Even at present, in Wolgan Valley and at Caper-
tee, writer found five Scotsmen to every one of
every other nationality. They were all quite mad
on shale. Once the writer got into a shale drive
with a Scotchman it was almost impossible to
get out. Speaking with many burrs in the speech
these enthusiastic guides wanted to take one
everywhere and show everything; and they ail
seemed to be comparatively recent arrivals.
The establishment of a shale oil industry will
bring to our shores an unusually good class of
men. Miners are hardy, brave, and capable of
enduring much. They will breed the sort of sons
who will be most useful in the firing line. Then
the increase in the industries connected with shale
mining and refining will make work for a large
number of skilled chemists and artisans, whose
intelligence will be far above that of the ordinary
laborer, and who will be, therefore, much more
valuable immigrants, because more prolific wealth
makers, than the farm hands now being lured here
by Government agents under what are, after all,
very much like false pretences.
Australia is going to have.a fleet some day, and
for the fast, lean, slippery ships that have to act
as the eyes of that fleet, petroleum is the ideal fuel.
.We want to have that fuel in our own backyard
and in unlimited quantities. In the day of stress,
with blockading squadrons raging up and down
our coast, shipments of petroleum to Australia
will cease. A petroleum tank steamer simply
cannot afford to be shot at, and a live shell scream-
ing through a tank steamer is so full of charming
possibilities to the men on board that only heroes
would undertake the work at such a risk. But
with the stuff bubbling from a thousand crude oil
works anywhere between Leeuwin and the
Queensland coast, there will be no scarcity.
When the Standard Oil Trust and the Russian
Oil Kings divided the world between them, Aus-
tralia fell to the Standard Oil Trust’s share. Out-
side that of the Shell Transport 00. there is practi-
cally n® opposition in the Australian market, and
it is pertinent to ask —is it likely a concern with
the record of Standard Oil would give Australia
any cheaper oil than it is compelled to? If the
local industry were fostered by the Australian
Parliament, about the first result would be that
the Australian consumer would get better oil, for
the Yankee product is inferior to the shale oils of
N.S.W. Probably he would also in a brief time
get cheaper oil, and he would certainly get the
benefit of the improvement in trade and in-
creased employment that the starting of the in-
dustry would bring about. The idea of our coun-
try being parcelled out between two sets of foreign
capitalists is a hateful one, and national pride and
our national welfare demand that we should have
our own industry and be as independent com-
mercially as we are politically.
If the present gigantic efforts to start the
industry in N.S.W. are allowed to collapse
for lack of national encouragement, it will
probably be 20 years or so before people
will get over the shock sufficiently to risk more
capital in such an enterprise. Although the end
of the world’s supplies of petroleum is in sight, the
demand for petroleum by-products is a great and
increasing one. Unfortunately, the demand for
kerosene does not keep pace with the demand for
the bv-products, and unless the kerosene can be
marketed it will not pay to make the by-products.
But Australia is a land in which, for long years to
come, owin g to the scattered state of the population,
kerosene will be in great demand for lighting pur-
poses. So, if Australia reserves its kerosene
market to itself, it will have the world as a cus-
tomer for the valuable by-products which it will
have in excess of its own requirements. In any
case it is a business in which the motto should be,
“Get in while the demand is great.” The following
table shows how the world’s output of petroleum
has increased, and how, owing to its peculiar
methods, the great Yankee Trust has grabbed the
lion’s share of that growth :
World’s Production ok Petroleum.
In Imkerial Gallons.
U.S.A. percentage
Imperial . of Total
Year. Gallons. Increase. Production.
1902 .. 6,450,986,137 48T472
1903 .. 6,815,616,143 664,630,009 51'5751
1904 .. 7,649,176,600 833,560,454 53'5491
This should prove to the most biassed believer in
the principle of free competition that there is
more behind the Yankee Trust’s success than
mere business luck. Other countries have been
developing their resources also, but the great*
Trust initiated by John D. Rockefeller has
managed to fight all opposition, and unless we do
something drastic it will crush our opposition also.
IMPERIAL.
The imperial phase of the matter was uncon-
sciously dwelt upon at great length by Sir Bover-
ton Redwood, the world’s greatest petroleum
authority, at the 27th annual meeting of the
British Society for Chemical Research, at New-
castle-on-Tyne, England. The learned gentle-
man was discussing the necessity for dis-
covering some artificial method of producing
petroleum or a substitute. He startled his
hearers by pointing out that the end of the
world’s visible supplies was already in sight. But
for the opening up of the rich, mid-continental
fields of the United States there would have been
a serious shortage already. And he thought the
time was rapidly approaching when the United
States would prohibit the export of petroleum
spirit, which would be a most serious matter
for the British navy and the British auto-
mobile industry, in which over £12,000,000 of
capital was invested. If petroleum was a
thing that was being renewed in the in-
terior of the earth weekly, we need have
no misgivings, but the evidence was all the other
way. Modern opinion inclined to the idea that
petroleum was produced from organic matter by
gradual changes in the interior of the earth, spread
over vast periods of time, by processes which
ceased about the date when life, first appeared on
the planet in biped form. We are therefore using
up our petroleum capital. Britain’s immediate
trouble was not so much petroleum as petroleum
spirit, and as the demand for kerosene, upon
which the production of petroleum spirit depends,
was not keeping pace with the increased demand
for the spirit, it was more than likely that within
a few years the U.S.A. export of petroleum spirit
would cease.
As mentioned before, the demand for kerosene
in Australia is likely to be a large and growing
one for many years to come, while the demand for
petroleum spirit, a substance in which shale oil is
very rich (the men at Hartley Yale refinery get
drunk on the fumes of it at their work), is not likely
to keep pace with our demand for kerosene. So by
the creation of an Australian Oil Industry the
Australian Parliament might render huge ser-
vice to the Imperial Navy and the British auto-
mobile industry, with consequent profit to Aus-
tralia. '
Boverton Redwood’s remarks suggest another
train of thought. Once the world grips the fact
that its supplies of petroleum are so limited that
the end is in sight, the chemists of the world will
start vigorously to search for a substitute. For
fuel purposes the benzoline of coal tar and alcohol
distilled from vegetable matter are already in
view. There are still enormous deposits of coal
in the world, and as long as the planet grows
whiskers alcohol can be made in unlimited quan-
tities. Once the world has decided that petro-
leum spirit is too rare and costly to be used for
internal combustion engines, it will be rather late
to start the Australian Oil Industry, and those
vast and immeasurably rich deposits of oil shale
with which Nature has blessed us will have lost
their value. So why not let us have the industry
now, while the demand is great, and while the in-
dustry will bring us both wealth and population ?
C. A. JEFFRIES.
A Tit-for-Tat Suggestion.
The thin edge of Victorian art-unionism has been
inserted into Bent’s Anti-Gambling Bill. Soon,
doubtless, the pent-up waters of shilling-ticket
speculation will sweep away Bent’s impediment,
and a number of Melbourne charities will be irri-
gated as of yore. The Eight Hours fSte com-
mittee has got its little wedge in on the under-
standing that the lottery shall be an “ art union ”
pure and undefiled. The principal prizes are to
be pictures by Victorian artists, instead of golden
vessels and goods whose face value has an
approximate equivalent in prompt cash. This
re-legalising of the “ gala ” gamble, with its in-
evitable restoration of the bazaar gamble in the
near future, is a thing to be coldly accepted rather
than warmly approved of. Art deserves all the
support it can get from lotteries, and the bazaar
gamble is perpetrated only in the sacred causes of
charity or hell-fire insurance. Still, the holiest
and most aesthetic appeals to a people’s gambling
instinct should be subject to the law of common
morality after being emancipated from the
law of Bent. Hitherto the immortal spirits
of Deceit and Dissimulation have flapped
their wings in the vicinity of Melbourne’s
most successful shilling lotteries. There never
was any guarantee that all the prize tickets in
some lotteries had been actually sold, seeing that
hundreds of tickets, ranging in numbers from 0 to
500,000, were unsold within a short time of the
drawing. And as for the Church and Charity
raffles, their fraudulence is a matter of humorous
tradition. If the valuahle “ prizes ” were existing
facts, the drawing provided that they should not
be won by anybody who would rob the “ good
cause ”of them. In some cases —many, perhaps—
they had no existence. The writer knows of a
piano which was borrowed for the purpose of
being exhibited as a prize worth 70 guineas or so,
in a ss. raffle at a charity bazaar. Charity covered
a multitude of valueless tickets, and when the
bazaar was over the owner of the piano got his
instrument back. Since Adolphus Bent has
become a sworn champion of morality in his anti-
gambling legislation, he ought not to relax the law
against lotteries without putting them on the
same level of respectability as Tatt.’s sweeps.
♦
Once more has the importing crowd which came
to curse remained to pray. A couple of years
back the Deakin Government passed the Sea
Carriage of Goods Act, the main purpose of
which was to prevent steamship owners impu-
dently contracting themselves out of their lia-
bilities by special clauses in their bills of lading.
Immediately the aggregate Calico James arose
as the skull of one ass and pawed the air. It
spoke of the liberty of the subject, and interfer-
ence with the freedom of commerce, and it
alluded to British fair play and British justice.
It also cussed, and all this because of an Act
which most of Calico Jimmydom hadn’t read.
Lately a big Sydney retail firm imported a case
of ribbons from Europe per a German steamer.
On opening the case at Sydney it was found to
contain nothing but atmosphere. It was admitted
that the case was full when received on board, but
the steamship co. pointed blandly to the bill of
lading. When the case came before the Court,
the bill of lading won. It had been signed in
Germany, where Deakin’s Sea Carriage of Goods
Act didn’t apply. And now local commerce says
that only a barbarous nation like Germany would
be without a Sea Carriage of Goods Act like
Deakin’s.
♦
The South A us. Assembly the other day con-
sidered the question of establishing a polling
booth at the Destitute Asylum, which holds 300
possible voters; and Treasurer Peake, among
others, opposed it—he doubted whether anybody
should vote who had to wholly depend on the
State for support. It is a lame, lop-sided argu-
ment. If the capacity to make money and
save it were the finest quality a man could
have, there might be something in the
argument; but that quality is often just
about the worst feature that a man possesses.
Not a hundred yards from The Bulletin office
there is a Naval House, run by a devotee named
Sheakston. He will probably die worth about
5d., in spite of his organising powets ; yet when he
does die 10,000 sailormen and wharfside laborers
will take off their hats and feel that they have
lost a friend. And a bit further on is the statue
of Dr. Lang— he wasn’t a millionaire either,
though he probably might have been if he.hadn’t
seen something better to do for his country ; yet
he deserves his statue. On the other side is an
image in stone of Burns and his plough. Yet
Robert couldn’t either make money or save it.
Curiously, almost at the very moment that the
Burns statue was going up, the masons were
chipping off a record that sprawled across the-
front of Sydney’s great Town Hall— “ John
Harris, Mayor.’’ John Harris, Mayor, had
vast wealth to recommend him, and not much
else; and so, after a few years, people
wanted to know why John Harris should
be remembered. Certainly the man who lays
by a bit for use in the drought time
isn’t to be despised. He has some good
qualities, though they’re qualities that are apt to
run away and own the owner instead of being
owned ; but the ancient who hasn’t got a bean
probably got into that condition because Nature
gave hitn other and better gifts and qualities—the
gifts and qualities that lead to remembrance,
while the names of the mere John Harrises are
smudged out of the records.
o
One of the most amazing slices of misinformation
furnished at the recent conference of Anti-Sosh
women in Sydney related to divorce. In the true
spirit of Anti-Sosh, whose other name, nine times
out of 10, is Stinking Fish, Australia was given a
shocking character. The divorce rate in N. S.
Wales was alleged to be one in 36, and in Victoria
one in 74. It wasn’t mentioned that this was the
result of the growth of the Labor party; but that
was the obvious suggestion in a crowd which
mixes up the Labor party and the disrupted
marriage tie. The plan adopted to arrive at the
divorce rate was the beautifully simple one of
comparing the number of divorces with
the number of marriages in a year; and on
the same lovely principle the Anti-Sosh statis-
ticians would, no doubt, find out the death-rate by
comparing the number of births with the number
of deaths—which would, in some cases, give the
staggering death-rate of close up to 100 per cent.
Apparently Australian Statist Knibbs had a pre-
monition that some absurd amateur would one
day try to arrive at the divorce-rate in that way,
wherefore, in the ‘ ‘ Official Year Book ” (1907) he
took the trouble to remark that such-a compari-
son “is quite valueless, as there is.fto necessary
connection between the figures.” He added—
“ Some value would attach to a comparison of the
number of divorces with the number of married
people ” ; but even with that hint of the right
way to get at the"rigures the Anti-Sosh conference
adopted the “ valueless” way. But still it got its
thrill, and what else did the Anti-Sosh ladies meet
for ?


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Ssrew. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
HOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
ill William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial ||)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
• Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET,-SYDNEY.
The Hor.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P. ,
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserv es .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Brandies and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .... ... £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security /i
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
txt.s.'w.
fflontdepietefljjij.(;o.,|;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH s t'„ 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., C'a.iir-
nian (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbkll-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coiiins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
IiESEItVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. U Godfrey, Esq., Chairman ; It. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FJIEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues atul Price Cist before building
with wood or brick. See machine ami stone turned
out at 101 Cast lereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. STEELE, Sole Agent.
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To YAP, MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
via NEW BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ SICISMUND (Twin-screw) .. 15th DEO.
MANILA 12th JAN.
PRINZ WALDEMAR ("Twin-screw) .. 9th FEB.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation,
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 695. LOIIMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
L1M1TIC1). ”
Capital Paid-up .. . .. .. £492,252 0 0
Rkskrvk Liability of Sharf,holdkrs .. 163,539 0 0
Rkskr vk FuNDf Invested in Government Stock) 71,500 0 0
£727,291 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aect., E. 11. Mattiikws
London Offick :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
SI Branches in Queensland. Agents a n.d Correspondents
Throughout the World.
A POLICY kor the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Cd, from The Bulletin Office.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via CAPETOWN and DURBAN.
f
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
November 25.
SUEI/IC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
December 23. .
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
FA KKjj—(kipetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown . Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. ‘Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban ~ From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
5^ S)
> NOLI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktuwn, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
df
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS,
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
sd
HICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
S, H. MCDONALD, Manager.
TASMANIA
The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
HIGHFIELD
.The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged and Re-
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated, High-class Cuisine.
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &C.
“ THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit his clients. Also First-Class
Touring' Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
yZrigMaiuUfi
& Sohn,
A. Q.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
fsdsd
REFLEX
Cameras
5 SIZES.
J x 2$ inch.
2£ x inch.
4i x (J-plate).
(il x 4J (.V-plale).
If x 4f inch.
WITH FOCAL PLANE SHUTTER.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
38S CE3RGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor '
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), post free. 12
Creates a beautiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
Penetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
skin, fills out the lines and hollows a..d
re t„res its youthful appearance.
Solti by all Chemists and Stores, or
fro - Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29. Old Bond
Stieet, London, England.
k CORGE HOTEL,
" St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
< When Mosquitoas annoy you
< rsmember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
l , insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
) bites, so many people have found
\ Calvert’s
j 20 % Carbolic Soap.
( It is also pleasant and refreshing for
( ba h or toilet, and a good safeguard
( against infectious diseases.
) Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
>Made by F C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yonsrala, Friday,
November 20.
S.S. Grantala, Saturday
December 5.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 21.
S.S. Yongala, Nov. 2S.
Heat and (fheafmst Itoutu to (lohl.iiol.iiit.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL 8c CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESSAGER/ES f^jAR/T/MES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS
leave SYDNEY as under:
M
jSERA
AUSTRALIEN .
YARRA ..
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT
ARMAND BEHIC.
Commander Schniitz
Commander Verron ..
Commander Sellier ..
Commander Bariilmi
Commander Guionnet
Noon, Nov. 30
Noon, Dec. 28
Noon, Jan. 26
Noon, Feb. 22
Noon, Mar. 22
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON HOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with the other Mail Companies, issued at greatly
reduced rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 2 p. 111., SATURDAY,
November 21.
BUN'INYONG, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, November 28.
ADELAIDE *
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and ear>;o for 5.A.,. •
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other \V. A. ports.)
GEItALDTON
BURRUMBEET, 12 noon, WED-
NESDAY, Deoembei 16.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
RUN DA BERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA. 2 p.m., SATUKDAY,
November 21.
- BUKWAII, 5 p.in., TUKSDAY,
November 24 (Carjro onlv).
OOOMA, .2 p.m., SATUKDAY,
November 28.
Passenger Tickets• interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Foil particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEOKGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IIEH 110 UTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
Uf.l(M STEAM SHIP GO.VIPA 4Y OF M.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK."
11,400 Tons. G. T. Dunn, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - November 2Sth,
~ ~ ~ MELBOURNE - December sth,
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - December 10th.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining: room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and |
LIVERPOOL., f
£49 10s.
£l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed by T.S.S. ESSEX, and four-weekly there-
after bv other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For
further information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & Co., Ltd., Sydnev and Brisbane ;
McILWRAITU, McEACHARN & Uo., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH k Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


Patronage.
Under Vice-Regal
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Streets.
®»“ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCEv.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. ■
50 POST CARDS FOR 9£d.
Post Free Is. Old. —•
Each Card worth Id. to 2d. each in any retail store in Australia, to-day. shortly.
OUR REASON. -We are overstocked with cards, and the Post Card Department is to be closed very sh J
HONESTLY WORTH ss. Your money returned if wdien you sec the goods.
We are offering you the biggest bargain in Post Cards ever heard of, and a long way cheaper than stationer}
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO., Dept. B, Tost Card Publishers and Importere^Jga-lg^jlasHeniaj^St^^^^
The Perfect
i ! ~ ---
n. p
Beard’s Bioscope—l9oB Model.
We are the Sole Agents.
The simplest and best result-giving machine,
capable of operating after a few minutes’
experience.
We supply showmen’s complete outfits.
Write us—a small capital starts you.
PICTURE
BIOSCOPE
In every detail the “BEARD” is
a most perfect machine. The Films
can be adjusted while running—
the lens is always in optical axis—
and Films can be brought into posi-
tion with gate aperture by raising
or lowering bottom handle. Price
£37 10s.
We have 250,000
feet of Films for
sale or hire.
Repair work accu-
rately executed.
EVERYTHING FOR THE CINEMATOGRAPH AT
JORDAN’S
(formerly Osborn &. Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
fd
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiib Bulletin.]
When you ask for
BOVRIL
do not take a cheap imitation. BOVRIL is all beef and
standardised strength-giving food.
Always have BOVRIL handy.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
WINCHESTER
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
CONICAL
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
sf
| WHAT IS CATARRH?
Ic ATARRH is inflammation ofthe lining membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
" throat, and lungs: it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgii, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send T*n Shillings for Indi-
cator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, post tree-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
dsf
NEAT smd
STRONG.,
no
MEND
HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
* Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
x keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
Sydney, or Bifurcated &
’'lul'nlar Rivet To. Ltd.,
Warrington. Eng.
Price List on
application.
The “Sunshine’ Harvester
THE SURE PROFIT-MAKER
FOR THE WHEAT GROWER.
Stump Jump Disc Ploughs
Set Disc Ploughs
Stump Jump Disc Cultivators
Set Disc Cultivators
Mouldboard Ploughs.
The “Sun” Grain & Fertiliser Drill,
The Albion Binders and Mowers,
Horseworks, Chaffcutters, etc.
Write to any of the undermentioned addresses for: —
New Illustrated Catalogue “M 10,” Farm Implements
(Posted Gratis).
_ 42 ENGINE STREET, SYDNEY.
Show 102 SPE NCER ST., MELBOURNE.
kooms g 6 NJH TERRACE( ADELAIDE.
Sandover & Co., Perth, W.A.
agencies tyj OTT g, Barlow, Toowoomba, Q.
H. V. McKAY,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER
WORKS.
Head Office and Works ; SUINSsMINE.
*l*
\\
'//
$
\\ N
HEN! DON’T
k TAKE DRUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it ? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You 1)0 need Electric Lite Eorce. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health-even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
mere is no uisput K applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only bo
been a doubt that a,,,0„e had metered the Thoae other J^ iaa in . dootor . soffice „ e ,erreach the trouble. . .
S*Wo£, M applied by DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, it*, modern, up-to date method. Mo ohock, no burning or
blistering', and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during tle ay.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold fcy us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit £5OO to anyone proving
5 the contrary.
a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
mbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
and full postal address clearly written in, and
with vour name
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
THE McLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
OfFIQE HOURS: 9 am. to 5.30 pm.
JOSEPH R. CQfICOHAN
THE McLAUGHUN CO., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name....
Address
..2


Which Brought Him Relief from
Affection of Face and Forehead
—Tried Several Other Remedies
and Consulted Two Physicians.
IN MIDST OF BUSY LIFE
SENDS LETTER OF PRAISE
•
Dunkirk Vicarage, Faversham,
July 10, 1907*
“ Dear Sir: I am very busily en-
gaged in preparation for the reopening
of our parish church which has delayed
my reply to your recent fetter. I may
tell you that I have been vicar of this
parish since January 1854, and am now
in my eighty-fifth year. My ailment
affected my face and forehead. It
commenced five or six years ago and I
had recourse to several remedies and
consulted two physicians. After a
while I happened to read an adver-
tisement about Cuticura . and deter-
mined to give it a trial. So I began
with the Cuticura Soap, then purchased
Cuticura Ointment, then added the
Resolvent, for which I have substituted
the Pills. Now I consider myself virtu-
ally cured and neither trouble doctor,
nor myself, nor any one else about skin
affections. I have much pleasure in
recommending Cuticura Remedies. I
use no other soap but Cuticura for my
face and hands.
“Yours very truly, W. J. Springett.”
ECZEMAS
And Other Itching, Torturing
Humours Cured by Cuticura.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap and
gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment afford instant
relief in the most dis-
tressing forms of itch-
ing, burning, scaly,
crusted humours, ecze-
mas, rashes, inflam-
mations, irritations,
and chafings of infancy
and childhood, permit
rest and sleep and point to a speedy
and permanent cure, in the majority of
cases, when all other remedies fail.
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura-Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
A Single Set often Cures. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris. 5, Rue de la Paix;
Australia, R. Towns & Co„ Sydney; South Africa,
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U. S. A., Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
5 /
THE MIGNON
PIAHOFORTE
HERE is a sweetness and
. richness of tone about a
MIGNON that stamps it at once
as an instrument to be desired
in the home of the man of
modest means. The question of
ways and means need never be
raised, since we have produced
in the MIGNON an excellent
Piano of very high grade at a
price and upon such easy terms
that there is no room for the
“ cannot afford it ” excuse.
Easy Extended Payments
Arranged.
Old Instruments taken in '
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co, Ltd,,'
342 GEORGE STREET-SYDNEY,
ABOLISHING THE TERRORS OP SEA TRIPS.
Most of the sickness suffered by people, and principally
ladies, during- sea trips arises from the smell of bih>-'e
water or oil or other uhpleasant odors found on even the
best kept steamers. And it is this fear of sea-sickness
that loses our coasting steamers thousands of passengers
every year. A good preventive of this main cause of
sea-sickness is now to be found in the new, cheap and
simple, self-contained electrical appliance for the purpose
of distributing perfumes throughout steamers’ saloons,
cabins, etc. It is a wonderful appliance, about the size of
a small mantelpiece clock, and is instantly put in motion
by touching a little handle. It may be seen at Washing-
ton H. Soul’s (Pattinson and Co.), Civil Service Co-op"
David Jones and Co., Ltd., Farmer and Co., Ltd!’
and Anthony Horderns. It should soon be in use on all
our steamship lines, and in our hospitals, theatres, halls
and hotels.
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
HoHick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste. I
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORUCK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
n- *? ty ' Chem] sts, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Horlick’s Malted Milk, and parent- are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth
which contains No Starch.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, &c.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horllck’s Malted Milk Co.. Slough, Bucks. Eng.
;
ds
A PERFECT SHAVE WITHOUT IRRITATION.
This is what the METROPOLE RAZOR
will do. Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years free of charge. Single Razor in
Case, 10/6; Pair in Leather Case, 21/-;
letropole Strop, 7/6. All Post Free. If you
vint to add to your looks, pav a visit to the
HOTEL METROPOLE HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
65 Phillin Street. Sydney.
f
A
Glace Kid
Oxford
for
Ladies,
You can well imagine
how this Shoe con-
forms to comfort,
wear and attract-
iveness when we
tell you it’s one of
the famous Ameri-
can manufacturer’s
—Good riche.
That name embodies all we could say in praise
of this Glace Kid Oxford Shoe.
Patent Leather Caps and Facings make it smart
in appeai'a'nce as Well as dust-proof, and we price
it at 17/6 in all sizes and fittings.
Note. —If you should be ordering from any-
where in Victoria add 9d. extra for postage, or
• ' Is. if from any other State,
Send for “ Shoelight,” our illustrated booklet-—Free.
Leeming’s Boot Stores,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 1 & 3 Errol Street
| North Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
35]
%
Safe Fat
Reducer
There have been
thousands of dif-
fer e n t methods
tried for i N.doing
superfluou ■ flesh,
but, mostare entire
failures, or else
lastingly harmful
and injurious. If you ar&overfat we can reduce
your weight, safely and permanently.
“FATCURE”
is the only safe, harmless-and lasting cure ever
discovered that will absolutely cure obesity. Its
efficacy has been amply demonstrated iii thou-
sands of cases. “ Fatcure ” isa vegetable extract
compound put up in tablet form, pleasant and
easy to take, and, if desired, can be taken secretlv.
In average cases it reduces weight by from 5 to 6
pounds a week, and over a pound a day in many.
After you have been using “ Fatcure ” a few days
your breathing becomes considerably .easier—the
pressure around your 'heart becomes noticeably
• less,, and your general health improves rapidly.
“ Fatcure ” makes heart failure a very remote pos-
sibility, and-fatty degeneration an impossibility.
FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.—Send a 2d. stamp to-
day, and let us send you a Free Trial Sample, and
our interesting booklet—Plain! Talk- on Obesity.
Investigate our claims and you will see that you
can readily reduce your weight. Write or call
for full particulars at once.
The Watworth Obesity Co., Suite J,
Linden ,Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
. [2 ___
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PATLNTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
115,000
The Wayback iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
LADIES’ TAILOR GUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for:
VERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/0.
SHIRTS from 4/*
W'
CjjREENER
fF ARE SAFE
M ' and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality. I
W. W. GREENER’S
Facile Princeps
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham. ’
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
The Mendicants.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The big landlord comprises the bulk of the local govern-
ment bodies in the country, and he values his land for
rating purposes at from one-eighth to a half of its real
value, so that his nominal rate of (say) Is. in the £ is
really a rate of from ltd. to 6d. in the £. And as this
isn t sufficient to keep his roads in order, he applies to
IsKN'r for subsidies, and gets them. These subsidies come,
to a great extent, out of the scantily-lined pockets of city
workers whohave not only to pay the whole cost (running
in some cases to about 2s. or 2s. 6d. in the £) of their own
municipal government, but to subscribe towards that of
the outside districts where the semi-millionaire landlords
. V .? t s elr h a b>tat and their palaces. There isn’t a hard-
worked, over-taxed, underpaid corporation laborer or
bootmaker or drayman in Footscray or Richmond or
Oollingvvood who isn’t, by reason of the subsidy system,
regularly giving his copper or two in charity to the
enormously rich Clarkes and Manifolds and their kind.
And there isn t a careworn, overworked hod-carrier’s wife
in the cheapest Melbourne suburb who hasn’t to live on
a more skimpy fare or to lie on a harder bed because, by
reason of the subsidy system, she has to pay her copper
or two that the loafing, greedy women of the Clarke and
Manifold clans may lie soft, and have more money to
burn and more motor cars.—Bulletin (8 GO 108 on Vic
Land Monopoly.)
Charity, Charity— parson and priest
Ever in church and in chapel have taught : —
“ Give ye in charity e’en to the least,
So may the favor of Heaven be bought.
Strive ye in Virtue, for Hun that we call
Master has named it the greatest of all.
Strive ye in holiness ;
Walking in lowliness,
Charity, Charity—answer the calif ’
Proud Squatter Rex is a lord of the land,
Owner of acres and breeder of sheep,
Gleaning his wealth with a masterful hand,
Scheming for profit with schemes that are deep.
Yet is the squatter a generous soul—■
A generous donor, and this be more :
He never begrudges—nor misses—the dole
Of gratuitous guineas he flings from his store.
Charity, Charity—purchase your fame !
All the world honors a giver of alms.
Noble philanthropist ! Publish his name !
Scatter his gift to the suppliant palms.
Nag I Would you ask how his guineas are won 'l
Mark his beneficence l See what he's done 1
Thank him, ye lowly ones;
Bless him, ye holy ones. .
Charity, Charity—worthily done !
Humble Bill Hodman is aged and poor ;
Owning no riches and owning no lands,
Living the life of a laboring boor,
Earning his bread by the toil of his hands.
Yet is the toiler an obstinate soul—
An obstinate pauper, and this be more :
He d answer with curses if offered a dole
In charity out of a rich man’s store.
Charity, Charity—ignorant clowns !
What should ye know of a personal pride 1
Shame on your surliness ! Shame on your frowns 7
Spurning the gifts that the wealthy provide !
Are they not generous ? Arc they not kind ?
Pride is their privilege, why should ye mind l
Study servility ;
Practise humility.
Charity, Charity — fools, ye are blind!
Proud Squatter Rex has a charming wife—
Queen of society, lady of birth ;
Nurtured in luxury, smiling thro’ life.
Ever enjoying the sweets of the earth.
Ah, but she pities the poor o’ the land—
Sweet benefactress, as kind as her lord.
Patroness she of a sliim-Workin'g band.
President, too, of a hospital board.
Charity, Charity—down in the slums
Misery stalks ’mid the lean o' the land.
Angel beneficent! See ivhere she conies,
Scattering gifts with a generous hand.
Sweet Lady Bountiful, draw in your skirt ;
Shrink from the misery, squalor and dirt.
Pity is lured to it ?
Nay, they're inured to it.
Charity, Charity is their desert.
Laborer Bill has a toil-worn wife—
Drudge of the lower class, cradled in care ;
Nurtured in poverty, struggling through life,
Knowing too well all the bitterness there.
Ah, but she nurses a foolish old pride—
Wife of a laborer barren of lands—
Knowing the “comforts” they humbly divide
Are earned, doubly earned, by the toil of their
hands.
Charity, Charity—nay, foolish drudge !
Why should you slave to the end of your day !
Think of the wealthy who never begrudge
Gifts to the “ Home ”where the indigent stay.
Why should mendicity shame such as you !
Indigence, beggary—these are not new.
Where is the blame of it ?.
What's in the name of it ?
Charity, Charity—it is your due.
Proud Squatter Rex, does your lordly soul
Shrink from the thought of a mendicant whine ?
Are you too proud to solicit a dole
Won by the sweat of a fellow of thine ?
What of.the subsidy sued for and paid ?
Paid at a word from a tool of the “class” ;
Earned, hardly earned, at a laborer’s trade—
Charity wrung from the toil of the mass.
Charity, Charity — what's in a name ?
Whine for a subsidy, 10, and it comes!
Still it is charity, ever the same —
Begged from a palace or cadged from the slums.
Call it a clever political game —
Yours is the sordidness, yours is the shame.
Moneyed mendicity,
Skilled in duplicity.
Charity, Charity ! —this is its name.
Sweet Lady Bountiful, queen of your set,
Selfish for pleasure and greedy for show.
Whence come the toys and the.treasures you get ?
Have you considered or wanted to know ?
xMay, would you stoop to take pence from the poor,
Soiled with the sweat of an overworked wife '
Loaf on the toil of a laboring boor,
Squander his pittance to lighten your life ?
Charity, Charity—cover your face !
This is your charity, this is your pride:
To laugh, and to live, and to know the disgrace
Of squandering pence tbit the needy provide.
Some toiling sister, some work-weary soul,
Is slaving the harder to eke out your dole.
Blush for the shame of it !
Shrink from the name of it!
Blush for your name upon Charity's roll!
VIC.
C. J. DENNIS.
Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
Frootoids are elegant in appearance and
pleasant to take; they are immensely
more valuable than an ordinary aperient;
they remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident by the disappearance of headache,
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient medi-
cine to take when any Congestion or
Blood Poison is present, or when Conges-
tion of the Brain or Appoplexy is present
or threatening. They have been tested,
and have been proved to afford quick
relief in such cases when other aperients
have not done any good at all.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver;
a dose taken at bed-time, once a week, is
highly beneficial.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a dose
of Frootoids, instead of an ordinary
aperient. The patient thus gradually
becomes independent of Aperient Medi-
cines.
Price 1/6. Chemists, Medicine Vendors,
or the Proprietor, W. G. Tlearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria..


To take to his wife
And make her happy all her life,
Professor leaves his gamp behind,
For having DALLI* on his mind.
* “ Dalli ” the best, most simple and most com-
fortable way of ironing. Independent of stove and
gas it can be used anywhere.
Non-inflammable fuel with-
out noxious fumes. No risk
from fire; healthier and
safer than any other iron.
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by—
Anthony Hordern
& Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
dsf
DON’T LOOK OLD,
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
LOCKYER’S
HAIR RESTORER
CJg
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE BALLET GIRL
sdf
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frea, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Con f essions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Sovelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G.P.O.m SYDNEY.
Australian flutual Provident Society.
Next Annual Distribution of the Profits as at 31st December, 1908.
Every participating- Policy in the Ordinary Department, issued previous to the close of the current year, will
share in the Bonus to be then allotted. ~ ~ , .
Amount divided among the Members for the one year 1907 was £708,245, representing more than a third of
the total premiums received during the year. „ __ _ ___
Total Cash Bonuses divided amount to £13,596,507.
Tiie Society being a purely mutual institution, the whole of the profits earned are distributed among the
participating Policv-holders, there being no Shareholders to first claim a portion of the.surplus.
Accumulated Funds, £23,500,000. Annual Income, £3,100,000. Amount dis-
bursed among Members or their beneficiaries, £27,765,937.
Policies can be secured for any sum up to £lO,OOO. For full particulars write to the Head Office, 87 Pitt
Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent of the Societ3 r .
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., ROBERT B. CAMERON,
General Manager and Actuary. Secretary.
sd
fsd
w*
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. VVe teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENCLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and dan do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
if
27
PRIZE
fa
MEDALS
AI.COCKS
al. • “/-> <>
THftT IS YOUR CUE
When ordering Bileiard
„ REQUISITES or
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “Alcock”
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY.PERTH.
wellingtoh,nz&l°ndqn.
Th e Mark of Quality
ERN’S
LL
AT cm
RAZOR Guaranteed
A High-Grade Razor, Fully Hollow-
Ground. Electrically T empered.
Always Keeps the Edge. Each
Razor in a Case.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle.
7 in Case, one for each day of the week.
TO BE OBTAINED OP
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney. [2
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIAtICA. LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
I c i*l l iu
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
TpOR' fi "'
r
9
f
It aets like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
r 4 o'er
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA & "
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Maehind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago. &e.
It is extensively used K y Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, wffi' have Avon
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world, in bottles, Is. lid. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; d oz., 4s. 6d. each.
WARN ING.— bottle of the GENUINE freemanT ghlorodyne, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the ‘ ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman's Chloeodyne, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
sdf
sd
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ D ” writes :
Said a Reuter’s message, dated 3/11/’OB :
“ There is intense indignation throughout Germany
against the Chancellor, Prince Bulow. Many of the news-
papers clamor for his resignation, declaring that he has
failed in his most elementary duty to the Emperor and
the nation.”
And yet it is unlikely that Bulow will go. He has held
out, during his life, against circumstances that would
have ensured the ruin of a dozen other men, and to-day
he stands stronger politically and socially than any non-
royal personage in the German Empire. He began his
career with an adventure of the sort that ruined
Parnell in the latter’s prime. When Bulow was aged 26
(which was in 1875), he ran away with Princess
Marie Comporeale, the wife of Count von Doenhoff.
Doenhoff divorced his wife, and Bulow married her.
Bulow’s friends implored him to leave the diplomatic ser-
vice. He laughed at them, and results soon proved that
he knew things. He was transferred to St. Petersburg,
and did well. Two years later he went to Vienna, and
there did better. Three brief years after the whole of
Germany had resounded with his elopement, Bulow was
appointed secretary to the Berlin Congress. From
then onwards he ascended steadily. In German
Imperial politics he has an amazing combination
against him. The Socialists detest him more than they
detest any other German statesman. The aristocrats,
the feudal Germans about the Court, hate him as
a class. He is responsible for the curtailment of
many of their privileges; also he has assailed
their morals on many occasions—which assailment,
coming from Bulow, appealed to them as superfluous and
exasperating. The Crown Princess of Germany dislikes
him. He used all his influence with the Kaiser to stop
her marriage with the heir to the throne, giving as his
reasons the many escapades of the Russian Grand Duchess
who was the maiden’s mother. As the Crown Princess
has since turned out a marvellously good and devoted
wife,, and as she wields in consequence more and more
influence over William 11. year by year, the Chancellor’s
position is delicate. Finally came the Harden exposures,
with their attendant accusations against Bulow. It is
agreed by Germans that the charges were baseless, yet
they were the sort that do a man damage if they are
merely whispered. It seems banal to suggest that the
stormy career of a man like that is going to be swamped
in a tea-cup breeze such as is blowing in diplomatic
Germany just now
The old home of Parson Marsden, “The
Cedars,” at Parramatta (N.S.W.), is to be de-
molished. It is a very old house even for aged
Parramatta. Parson Marsden died there in 1838,
and he had lived there years before. Mr. Mills, of
the old-time land auction firm of Mills and Pile
(Pile was George of the Dog), also lived there for
many years, and spent thousands of pounds on the
property.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarhet, Sydney, N.5.W.
ev>e LEADING
HOUSE ■»*
fsd
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
CANT
B
BEAT
nIMWIBIpWIWI
m
m
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 6J to 6|lb. ... S S.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
K\
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrif,
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, IS posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
UNIVERSE, Bd, AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS REPRINTS
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
Is
■
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.'
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, la
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.\sy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s (id.
Self Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No IVlatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. Bar" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Oiievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing', Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE EOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
EBB
BEST
FLAT
SHAPE
The (£bd) is THE Pipe
that does r\ot crack or burn.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KEEP IT
Wholesale Depot
for Australasia ,
231 Clarence S' Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CAKDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Free
■r.'JrH.
2-ft. High.
A LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR A BOY’S RIFLE
FREE !!
The Life-sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-oainte 1
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, be tutiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye , and represented with flesh-col >ure i body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., Jiighlv
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of be.-dmaterial rapid in itsaction, and
to ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver YVHTCH
CHHIN and PEKDHXT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money (j/-, ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World —Imitated but Unrtvaoeu.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice ard Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent wi h the seeds —also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, s.nd we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by ret"
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fi.S.W.
?
Boy’s Rif e.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
f
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by post,
Is, 4d. ( stamps) tv wake 5 gallons spray.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Soi'd bv all Chemists.
Britjsb=JlMstralasian
j’
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
PriCf* POST FREE, £1 per year,
l I ILC "Ll* iii advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


Stomach Troubles
A Great Sufferer Cured.
NO other organ in the body is taxed to such an extent as the stomach.
Here is a rough list of what the stomach has to do every day:
“ Turn several pounds of solid food into a semi-liquid state.
Digest that amount, turning it into a form from which it may be made
into bone, muscle and other tissue. Make its own supply
of gastric juice to digest with—lo to 20 pints per day.
Keep up a heat of 100 degrees, notwithstanding all the
cold water, etc., that is taken.” If the stomach
gets below that temperature—loo degrees—
or if it ceases to secrete gastric juice, focd
decomposes, wind collects, and flatulence
and pain follow. There is headache, dizzi-
ness, loss of appetite, constipation, and
other symptoms of digestive disorder.
Bile Beans put the stomach, liver and
digestive organs in perfect working order.
They clean away decomposing matter,
gently open the bowels, and tone up
the secreting glands.
Mr. H. E. Neville, of 52 Addison Road,
Marrickville, Sydney, writes : “ I suffered
with terrible pains in my side and stomach,
for which I used several so-called remedies,
but could gain no relief. A friend recom-
mended Bile Beans, and presented me with a few to try. These I took, and
gained almost instant relief. Thus encouraged, I purchased a further supply, and
after taking four doses the pains left me entirely, and I have had no return of
the malady. I can with confidence recommend Bile Beans to anyone similarly afflicted.”
Bile Beans are the standard remedy for indigestion, biliousness,
headache, constipation, debility, loss of appetite, summer fag, sloepless-
ness, bad breath, anaemia, liver and stomach
troubles, and all digestive disorders. Ob-
tainable from all chemists and stores at
Is. I{d. and 2s. 9d. per box (containing three
l times Is. lid.).
1 One Bean
One Dose.
%
?
8
\
1
Christmas , 1908.
One of the finest descriptions of the
Good Old English Christmas
to be found in all literature—
Washington Irving’s
“Old Christmas
Illustrated by Two Full-page Pictures in colours (facsimile of
the original water-colour drawings) and numerous other
illustrations in tints,
is contained in
sdf
ds
Lx
In a superb pictorial cover, printed
in eight colours, together with
Three Beautiful
Presentation Plates
Printed in the best and most artistic
style of Chromo-Lithography, viz.:
1. “ THE OLD OLD TALE, ’ by A. Soloman.
Size, 23 Yz in. by 18% in. Printed in 13 Colours.
2. “A WINTER’S MORNING,” by Frank Dadd, R.I,
(A brilliant Hunting Scene).
Size, 14 in. by 19 in. Printed in 13 Colours.
3. “A WINTER’S EVENING,” by Edward Brewtnall, R.W.S.
(A Christmas Card Party).
Size, 14 in. by 19 in. Printed in 13 Colours.
The last two form an excellent pair.
NOW READY. Sold by all Booksellers.
Agents for Australia—GOßDON & GOTCH.
An Old Bush Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f I a distant roadway winding
Downward by the sea,
Thro’ the lanes where dog-woods
flower,
’Neath the wattle tree.
Thro’ the slip-rails, ’cross the river,
Up the hills and down,
Till the waters flash and quiver,
Close by Burnie town.
Riding down to Burnie toivn,
Burnie by the sea,
Past the paddocks , green and brown,
Green and golden lea ;
Bracken braes with briar strewn
All the pathway down
Lead, to xvherc the waters croon,
Close by Burnie town.
There the silver showers fleeting
Drench the green-clad hills,
Where the nodding ferns are curling
By the crystal rills.
There the magpies gay are calling
All the dewy dawn,
To the noisy water brawling
’Twixt its banks of lawn.
Summer snows the fields with clover,
Golden Cape-weed gay,
With the brown bees roaming over
All the livelong day.
Down the gale the bushland flowers
Fling their incense strange,
Dusky blue the haze is deep’ning
On the distant range.
There’s a distant road that’s leading
Past the autumn hedge,
Where the tangled brushwood serries
Cliff and mossy ledge ;
There are white clouds floating over
In the clear, soft blue—
Like a heart-sick absent lover,
Dear, I think of you.
Winter and the frost flung over
Like a bridal veil;
Youth and Joy together laughing
Long have left the dale ;
And a spectral shadow striding
Throws my castles down—
Shall I never more go riding
Down to Burnie town ?
Riding down to Burnie toivn,
Burnie by the sea,
Past the paddocks green and brown,
Green and golden lea.
Now the path is lost for aye,
Lost to you and me.
Oh ! the world is sad and grey,
Burnie by the sea!
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
A Lesson in Deportment-
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the customer had rustled out,
the resplendent shopwalker retired
into an alcove of calico rolls, and flicked
his fingers, and hissed at the new salesman. The
salesman looked up, dropped the roll he had been
folding, and edged sideways behind the counter
to where his commanding officer awaited him.
“God bless my soul!” hissed the perspiring
potentate, tremulously. “ God bless my soul! ”
The new salesman looked amazed, and said,
“ Beg your pardon, sir? ”
“’Tchut!” said the shopwalker. “’Pshaw!
Where the deuce did you train, sir ? ”
“ Addle and Piesnap’s, sir.”
“ ’Pshaw! ’’
“ Beg pardon, sir ? ”
“ God— bless —my —soul! ”
“ Why, sir?” asked the bewildered young man.
“ Why, sir!” repeated the fuming potentate,
“ Why, sir ! Why, because you have no manner,
sir ! Because you don’t know how to treat a lady !
Who the deuce recommended you here, my man ? ”
“Mr. Piesnap, sir.”
“Did Mr. Piesnap ever observe your manner
when serving customers, my man ? ”
“ Don’t know, sir, I’m sure.”
“ Well, if he did, young man, I don’t know what
he was thinking about to recommend you to a
first-class house like ours. What do you mean,
sir, by serving Mrs. Padgely-Scott in that abrupt
manner ? ”
“ I wasn’t abrupt, sir,” protested the salesman.
“Pah!” The shopwalker made a choking
sound and, turning on his heel, beckoned to a
languid, golden-haired sylph in black.
“ Miss Fad stitch,” he said, hoarsely, “will you
be so good as to act the part of a customer asking
for two yards of black velveteen? I wish to
demonstrate something to Mr. Slapper here.”
The golden-haired lady bowed slightly, walked
a few yards down the aisle, then turned and
trailed hack, scanning the shelves with a super-
cilious glance until she arrived at the spot where
the shopwalker stood.
“ Ah —good morning,” drawled the beauty, “ Ai
want some-er-velveteen.” (The shopwalker, with
both hands on the counter, inclined his head
reverently.) “ Abaht—let me see ! Yaas, a baht
half-a-crawn ! Black ! ”
“ Cert-ain-ly, madam!” breathed the demon-
strator. In some occult manner he seemed to
tinge the words with hopeless passion. Then, as
he turned to the shelves, he called sternly to the
watching salesman, “Now' you —watch me !”
The salesman watched him. Everyone in the
shop watched him. A passing swagman who had
looked in casually stood petrified at the door.
The shopwalker lifted down the roll of stuff and
laid it on the counter as tenderly as if it were a
sick child. He gave it a deft twist or two and
insinuated rather than lifted it into the girl’s
white hand.
“ Our very best quality, madam! Magnificent
fabric! Splendid wear!” His voice died away
in a wilderness of praise. He spread his hands
over the cloth as if he were groping in the dark-
ness for words to describe the dearest possession
of his heart. Watching him, you somehow got
the idea that he had spent years fighting lions for
it in the jungle.
The girl, with magnificent gravity, con-
descended to examine the bit of rag.
“Ah 1 Half-a-crawn, I think you said ! ”
“ Half-a-crawn, madam ! ” (This with unutter-
able tenderness.)
“ Ah, yes—of course ! Well, now, let me see.
Yaas, I’ll take a yahd and a quahter.”
The demonstrator bowed again—bowed with his
hand on his vest —bowed as far as it was humanly
possible for a map of his figure to bow in that
limited space, until he grew purple in the face
and his pince-nez clung for its very life to the
bridge of his nose. Then, as the spectators gazed
at him mute with astonishment, he suddenly
straightened up and thundered, “Did you all
watch me closely ? Did you observe my manner '! ”
There was an indistinguishable murmur from
all over the shop. It sounded like the response to
a prayer.
The shopwalker glowered round triumphantly.
“Well that is the proper way to treat a lady !
That will do ! Forward everybody! ”
The effect of the order was superb. On the
instant, the gathering broke up and the routine
work commenced again. The shopwalker strode
splendidly away. The sylph glided back to the
mantles. The salesmen and women resumed
their folding and whispering, and the girl in the
cash desk turned over another page of her novel.
There was a sudden sound of rough applause
from the doorway, and the whole establishment
was scandalised by hearing a hoarse voice shout-
ing, “ Dashed good ! Ongcore ! Ongcore!”
The shopwalker wheeled in his tracks, stared,
gasped and foamed forward. “Go out!” he
shouted. “Go away at once /’’
The swagman seemed taken quite aback at the
fierceness of the onslaught. He backed towards
the door, grumbling “Didn’t mean no ’arm!
Was only lookin’ at th’ play ! ”
The swollen shopwalker vibrated with indigna-
tion. “Play! This isn’t a play! It’s a shop!
Go out ! ”
“ Garn’t a man look at yer ? ”
“No!” shouted the shopwalker, desperately;
“No! you mustn’t look at me at all! You
mustn’t look at anything. Go away ! ” He
shoo’d the dusty pilgrim out into the sunlight, and
glared after him as ho slouched away down the
street. Then, with a grunt of disgust, that enor-
mous and unreasonable draper turned and went
up the aisle again, mopping his brow and whisper
ing distractedly to himself, “God-bless-my-soul !
. . . God-Mess-my-soul ! ”
KODAK.
Quinlan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONCE upon a time Quinlan was a Govern-
ment official.
In the days of his officialdom he had
been noted for the propriety of his conduct, the
perfection of his attire, and the exclusiveness of
his circle of acquaintances. At social functions of
high degree he was quite a well-known figure. He
had even been invited to Government House
dinner parties. His critics declared that he was
shallow, though they allowed him a certain sur-
face brilliancy. Huder people called him a con-
ceited prig. Nevertheless, there were hidden
depths in Quinlan which no one, his friends least
of all, suspected.
That period of mental and physical disturbance
which comes to most men at some time in their
youth had never been a part of his experience.
He had neither written sonnets to his mistress’
eyebrow, nor rebelled against the unalterable, nor
told himself that life was a delusion ; he had
never made love to barmaids, nor argued with
policemen at one o’clock in the morning, nor
hurried unobtrusively home with the milk and the
belated cat; he had not even heard the chimes at
midnight, except in the most irreproachable com-
pany. These youthful distempers show them-
selves in many ways, and, like the measles, it is
just as well to take them young.
Quinlan was engaged to be married. He was
not deeply in love with the lady, but he respected
her for the pecuniary and social advantages she
could bring him as his wife. The last vacation of
his bachelor life he decided to spend in a cruise
among some of the Pacific islands.
He left Sydney in a tourist steamer, with six
weeks’ holiday ahead of him. It was spring, and
the islands looked their loveliest. To Quinlan the
voyage was one, literally, of enchantment. He
resigned himself altogether to the magic of those
jewelled seas. The spell of the Pacific was upon
him—that fever of the tropics which, once it has
seized on a man, seldom leaves him this side of
the grave, had entered into his veins.
When the last gleaming beach was left behind
Quinlan began to taste the dregs of his newly-
found cup of happiness. The life which had once
appeared so satisfactory now seemed a drab vista
of monotony, and as he neared Sydney the pros-
pect of its continuance became almost loathsome.
He no longer aspired to bask in the sunshine of
Government House; he became exceedingly doubt-
ful whether he wished to marry the lady he was
engaged to. After his return these feelings gained
intensity. A change became noticeable in him.
His dress was no longer the pink of perfection ;
he refused invitations which, before his holiday,
he would have jumped at; his visits to his fiancee
became more and more irregular. He grew pre-
occupied and ceased to shine in a social sense with
his old brilliancy. At length he recognised that
this state of affairs could not last much longer.
He looked forward to his marriage with acute
apprehension. Time was growing short, and still
he hesitated to act. It was an awful leap which
he contemplated ; yet he knew in his heart that
he must take it. On the eve of his wedding day
he disappeared.
* * * *
Quinlan wears a lava-lava now. On special
occasions he supplements this garment with a
frayed and soiled, but still ornamental, smoking-
jacket, the last relic of his ancient splendor. He
■ has a brown wife and several eoffee-and-milk
colored children. His first hot passion for the
island life has naturally cooled somewhat, but he
has done with civilisation for ever. The tropics
hold him fast, and he knows there is no going
back. On the whole, he is probably quite as con-
tented as in the days’ when he shone in the social
finmtmeut. 'Now and again he has his bad
moments, but gin is a great consoler.
If Quinlan had been less respectable in his
youth he might not have been quite so disreput-
able in his middle age. He had arrears of sin to
make up, and he made them up in a hurry.
WYBEN.


TOP IT
Stop that Backache, for
Backache is Kidney-ache,
I®
\
\
1
n
"Every
EicturQ
Tells a
Story”
The easiest time, the right time, the only safe time to pro-
tect yourself against fatal kidney complications is when
the first sign appears, for kidney complaint .comes on un-
noticed, and it is bound to end fatally if neglected. Take
no risks with your health, but begin with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills at the first sign of anything wrong. Doan’s
Pills are a special medicine and a sure cure for every dis-
order of the kidneys or connective system.
Sydney Women Cured.
ARTARMON.
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road,
Artarmon, Sydney, says : —“lsuffered
for a long time with severe pains in my
back. They were so bad that I could
scarcely move about. Rest was out of
the question. .1 would be tossing about
all night, moaning with the pain. I
could not bend my back, and I had to
neglect my work. I was really very ill,
and would be confined to bed for days at
a time. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised as a cure for backache,
and got a box. After a few doses I got
relief, and then gradually I got better,
until I was quite cured. There is no
doubt about it being a cure, for it is two
years since I stopped taking the pills,
and I’ve not had the backabhe all that
time.”
DOWLING STREET.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 133 Dowling
Street, Sydney, says “My mother
suffered with severe pains across the
back, and in her legs. For six months
she was very bad, and some days
would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did
her no good. We saw Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, and
thought we would get some and give
them a trial. After taking the first
half-box, we knew they were good, for
she felt a little better, and from that
on the improvement was marked, and
eight boxes completed the cure. She
is now splendid, and can get about
easily. It is twelve months since her
cure, and during that time she has not
needed to take a single pill. We feel
sure that she is cured for good.”
LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, says “ I can
strongly recommend Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for curing pains in the
small of the back. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it
was difficult to move about at all. I
blame sitting too close at work for
causing the trouble. The pilis effected
a permanent cure, for there is no sign
of the ailment now.
Mrs. Lawson makes a second state-
ment four years later : —“ The aboVe is
quite true, and time has proved that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills not
only cure, but cure permanently.
There would be less suffering in the
world if people only knew the value of
this remedy.”
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney, says:—“l used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for aches
and pains in the limbs, which I fancied
were caused by kidney trouble. The
pains had troubled me for years, defy-
ing all treatment. I found it very
difficult to get up and down stairs, and
fits of giddiness, which often came over
me, made it more distressing. Some-
times I would be laid up. Soon after
I started using Doan’s Pills relief came,
and when I had taken six boxes the
aches and pains and giddiness had dis-
appeared.”
Three years later, when asked about
her cure, Mrs. Davis says:—“ Yes, I
am still quite well; none of the dis-
tressing symptoms, mentioned above
have ever returned- 3 ’
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or -will be posted on receipt of price by
FOSTER-McLELLAN CO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
%
1
In a Pub.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I BELONG to the ranks of the Black Brigade,
and I march with the utterly lost;
I am one of an army that never weighed its
lust to reckon the cost,
For I bartered the joy of my father’s hall ere the
thatch on my top lip grew,
And I sought fresh joy where the sirens call to
the pleasures of scarlet hue.
It was women and wine in my London haunts,
but the women were worst, I think,
For my blue blood boiled at a sister’s taunts, so I
gave my soul to the drink ;
Then they packed me off on an outward ship
and here in a drunken whirl
I melted my cheque, and I let things rip with a
rollicking chorus girl.
The “stuff” of a drink-drugged brain won’t sell
(you have sickened of morbid slime),
And there’s not much meat for an English swell
who ‘ ‘ walks ” in a pantomime !
And to serve out beer in a city bar is pleasant
beyond a doubt
Till they find you serving yourself “ Three Star,”
and you’re drunk, and they fire you out.
I’ve fathomed the deeps of your Melbourne streets
from the dawn to the deepest dark,
And I know the faces the outcast meets thro’ the
night in a city park ;
They are starved and wild, they are filthy and
foul, and they blot out the sweet star-shine,
And I lay me down with them cheek-by-jowl;
and no soul is more foul than mine.
For Drink and the Devil I see it through, there’s
nothing left now to mar ;
I’ve passed from the thoughts of the Ones Who
Knew ; I’m one with the Beasts That Are,
Sans woman, and country, and creed, and caste,
on till they find me stark,
Withered and filthy and resting at last, and cold,
in a city park.
I belong to the ranks of the Black Brigade,
Men who have strayed,
Never obeyed.
I am one of the Army that never stayed its lust
for the fear of the Cost;
I am all that is left of an Oxford swell,
Going pell-mell
Down to Hell . . .
And my name (won’t you shout?) I will NEVER
tell, for I march with the Utterly Lost!
I carry the cross of the branded Cain
(Fill it again!),
Red is the stain!
But the blood of my people is blue in the vein,
tho’ the brain and my body’s decayed;
The brandy I crave is the dregs of my shame
(Mine is the same !)
I’m (hie) to blame.
ME, FURNIVAL CHERESFOOD ! that (hie) is
(hie) name of (hie) ... brandy ! Brack Bligade!
tas.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.
To the Devil.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AFTER an expensive course of The
World and The Flesh, Jim Crolte spent
his last fiver, and went utterly to The
Devil.
So now he stood, perspiring, in Hell, and called
for his twelfth beer. It was hot, of course, and
the southern hob was visible through the doorway,
a parched, glaring stretch of scrub and boulder.
The northern hob was out at the back, a limestone
outcrop, skimpily tufted with wild holly and bare,
brown cotton-tree. Jim was clad in a split shirt,
heavy bluchers, and blueys white at the knees and
seams.
“ Long ’un ! ” he demanded, and explored in his
pocket for the necessary cash. He found sixpence
only, the balance of his afternoon’s provision; and
it was a hot day, and seven miles to camp.
He sat down in the corner to think. When the
beer arrived, he arose and put his money on the
bar, and sat down again, setting the glass on the
ground beside him.
It was a hot day, and the flies hummed rest-
fully in the rafters a loafer’s lullaby. It occurred
to Jim, pleasantly, that only on days-off did this
seem a musical sound—this soft melody of things
that toiled not, but spun all day among the leav-
ings on the bar. A hot day, and flies buzzing in
the rafters. And camp seven miles away.
He looked upon his beer lovingly, and lapped a
mouthful. It was tasty and cellar-cool—good,,
wet beer, if a trifle peculiar in flavoring.
He set the glass down again, almost untouched,,
and mused happily. Voices of men, coming
down the road between the hobs, sounded upon
the warm, buzz-broken silence, and grew louder’
as their owners entered.
“ H’o, Mick ! ”
“ H’o, Bill! H’o, Tom ! ” replied the publican..
“ Yes, a long ’un,” said Tom.
“’M,” said Bill.
Jim dozed beside his refreshment.
“ ’Ave a beer, bloke ! ” urged Bill.
“Shanks!” accepted Jim, thickly. “Long:
’un !”
“’E’s arl right,” said Mick. “’E’sgot arl ’e<
wants. ’E’s contint.”
Jim drowsed on, conscious of inner well-being,,
and with bliss on hand in the full glass at his side.
Many voices came and went, and dim forms
flitted before his misty eyes, now and then half-
' %petied. Long time he sat there upon the floor,
wrapped about with an aura of utter content, and
with the seven-mile stage put at last out of his
remembrance by the ineffable touch of kindly
sleep.
He dreamed, presently, of sparkling streams
that ran whispering over piled splinters of cracked
ice. Other liquors there were, miscellaneous and
broad, amber floods dashing into huge tumblers
of fine glass, with potted ferns and unaccountable
crimson carpets in the background.
By-and-bye there came a persistent booming,
blotting out the softer sounds of tinkling glass
and foaming beer. He woke slowly, and the
It was still hot, he found; and he was seven
miles from camp. Then he remembered his beer
with joy, and put forth an eager hand to seize his
glass—and the glass was there, but the beer was
done ! A dampness beneath him and around him
advised its presence near, but how hopelessly far.
To complete his annoyance, the voice of the
heartless devil behind the bar hailed him.
“ ’ Ere > y° u > Jim Croke ! Ye ’ ve had y, e . r share !
hmig UP tolme ’
He graduallv pulled himself to his knees, and
then to his feet.
Seven miles to camp, and a blazing hot day.
He picked up the empty glass, and threw it,
deliberately and with passion, out through the
side window, which was closed, and turned for
the door.
Out on the hob his horse, whose neck was like
a swan s, regarded him with a patient stare ; and
after four ineffectual attempts to mount he started
jf r^ own the hill towards the creek, leading the
The sun blazed in the west, and the dim, clu-
sive track stre t c hed out before him, interminably,
as is the yay with t h e roads of Hell.
His thirst raged insufferably, and at length he
] e ft the track and made for the waterside, lumber-
through the scrub.
There he drank.
“ Hell!” he gurgled, his face within his brim-
ming hands. “ Hell—an’ shacks o’ water, af’er
ah ! Nushin' bu’ water ! ” and he sank back
anion S the bushes, despairing, a tormented soul,
FRANK HENTY.
Down the River.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE is a little song of the Lachlan,
broken like its flow in the fierce droughts,
and perchance as twisted as its writhing
banks, for memory is a sorry thing that hops from
twig to twig like a feckless bird. Ah ! the
dreams that have drowned in the river, and the
laughter, and the mirth. Years ago, I remember,
I saw it racing high among the gums, tearing
ravenously, like a maddened dog, at its own
mutilated sides, and slavering muddy spume and
froth upon its banks. Here other great clots of
foam were flung high upon a raft of wreckage, and
for miles across the bends and sandhills came the
roar of water, snapping and running like a wild
beast. The little chestnut I rode that day lifted
her feet daintily as the first trickle of water stole
out like a dirty brown snake, twisting, writhing
from the ravenous river into the Black Swamp.
I remember how blood-red the sunset was, how
the river roared, and how black the shadows were
in the swamp. When we reached the rise, the
floods, led by that first tiny trickle among the
leaves, were out, and from behind us came the
shrilling of millions of crickets, the sound of miles
of rising water, and now and again the thin
screech of a falling tree.
But in the good seasons, when men forget their
sorrows, the river flows slowly, smoothly, on its
way through lush green banks that will soon turn
sere ’neath the sun; and through great, green
gums, leprous with old water scars. Here and
there the banks widen out to big sandy reaches,
and gay flaunting wattles, honey-combed with
bees, crowd to the water’s edge. In the deeper
holes ’neath the overhanging banks, that only
empty in the fiercest drought, lurk wise old fish,
the younger generation having mostly slipped
valorously downstream, impelled by the spring-
time and the bravado of youth. Heigh-ho !
;you could lie on the green banks watching the slow
•old river, and dream idle dreams, with the sky a
turquoise cup above you, and the sun shining
'through your veins, and the drone of bees, and the
f thin, faint bleat of young lambs, and the long grass
whispering like rain, and
But the enemy of the river is the great red
•drought, that walks with blistering feet and
fcetid breath through a devastated land. Daily
the river shrinks and withers, till, like a very old
man, it hobbles through the land. The grass
perishes from its banks, and they crumble hideously,
like decaying lips from dead gums. All day
long the Drought Fiends’ battalions of dust patrol
tlie horizon, and the wattles die, and the grass,
and the hardy shrubs and the plains are as levelled
■sandhills whereon the Drought’s dancing girl, the
wicked, luring haze, flits to and fro. And ever
•overhead, or torturing the dying, flap forth the
•devil crows, rejoicing over the earth. Satiated
with dead flesh, they hunt for titbits, and when
the staggering ewe can do no more, they seize the
living lamb. There are white bones everywhere
protruding though the silences and festering the
■earth. The river is dead first. Isolated holes of
water are strung like beads on a narrow chain that,
’link by link, is gradually broken. The dust inter-
venes and the scattered beads grow less and less,
•and bones and mud and rotting carcases mark
where once they lay.
I was riding round with a broken-hearted owner
and his men, and the sere of the drought crept
into my very soul. They were killing the baby
lambs that the crows had deprived of sight and
left mutilated in the dust. Many were dead, but
many were twisting still, crying pitifully. Ah !
the poor little babies, hundreds of them, dead
along the river.
“ Hear that! Ride !! ” It was the joyful caw-
ing of many crows in the next bend. Shrill paeans
•of triumph, and we rode, hard. O the tragedy of
it! Mud, a bog, a few stains of foetid water, and
how many luckless beasts ! A stench arose from
•many bodies dead weeks ago, a few were just
■dead, but many animals lived, bogged, smothered
in the press of bodies —too weak for defence, and
therefore deprived of sight. One big hollow steer
lay with broken legs, sawing his dizzy head—his
•eyes wells of blood—at the circling of lapping
birds. As I rode away I heard the shots, and
knew that for them at least Hell was over. Yet
I remember the tortured beasts, and the little
•dead babies along the river! But they forget.
And the river once more shoulders high among
the gums, and—no one recalls the past. ’Tis
years since I saw the old Lachlan River, and yet
they haunt me still, those poor little dead, tortured
babies in the West.
CARO.


m.
Mr. J. Williams, of Northern Sta-
tion, N. E. Port Augusta, sends liis
photo and writes that he has been a
sufferer from impure blood and indi-
gestion, with pimples on his face, and
blackheads. He was always taking
medicines of some kind, with no re-
lief until he began with Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla and Ayer’s Pills. He took
in all three bottles of the Sarsaparilla
"and two bottles of the Pills, with the
result that the pimples and black-
heads disappeared and he was relieved
entirely of his indigestion.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
acts directly upon the blood-forming glands of the body, stimulating them to
produce healthy, rich, red blood ; the kind of blood that brings a good whole-
some color to the lips and cheeks, clearing away pimples and blackheads.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure that you get “AYER’S,” not some worthless imitation.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Cheeks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND -1/1 2/9, & 4/6
1
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CIJBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
•sanoq
ui
(rnt,
Each Capsule hears the name
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in doth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining-room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Grocers and
Hardware
Dealers,
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H, Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd*
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
2(!0U1B
: 3JB lUO
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
cures
Australian Blight,Falling Eyelashes,Wes k Sight
Ask your chemist for its history-the book is free-or write
GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
L ARINIL
Imparts to Metal the
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name.
Ask for SOLARINE,
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
METAL POLISH
Ml////
mm
•S/O
=>v
O
rS
Manufactured by
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COLORED
and
fd
POST CARDS.
V
GOOD LUCK
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
O packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have so d the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose fn m the list ol jewellery which we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, vou can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOI'O. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS. LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WPi TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in. post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
postcards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and 111
•every case positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
REGAL POST CARP C% 126 O CONN ELL ST,S> ONEY.
Are you Bothered
by Bili
Many people are. It is a very common form of liver trouble, and a
very unpleasant one, involving sick-headache, nausea, dizziness, and
often complete prostration during an attack. When you are bilious
you require something that will effectively stimulate the liver and give
speedy relief, and there is no better medicine for this purpose than
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
because they act directly on the congested organ, regulate the
flow of bile and carry off all impurities. But the good effects
of Beecham’s Pills are not only confined to the regulation of the
liver. The complexion improves, the dark circles under the eyes
disappear, the head clears, and the general health is renewed.
Beecham's Pills are purely vegetable and a safe medicine for man,
woman, and child. Take them as directed whenever there is need to
Exercise the Liver.
Sold everywhere in price 1/H (56 pills) § 2/9 (168 pills).
ousness
*
iC;
■ '
“SPINNING MERRILY”
is how one of our Customers described his
"Steel Wings” Windmill
He had had experience of the other sort;
woe-begone was his expression then ; now
he is all smiles, for he has the best
Windmill money can buy.
IT HAS A BEARING ON EACH
SIDE OF THE WINDWHEEL.
A very large sail area.
It is strongly built.
It has a simple balance gear.
It pumps 50 % more water than
any other, hence the smiles.
Made by iar
The Steel Wings Windmill Co. } Ltd.,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
Write to Dept. C for Price List, etc.
The Bulletin
sh>
f POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, arid
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
SIU George Street , Sydney.
f
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring: this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding- up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. • • • • • - .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. ..£ll2 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. . • • • • • • • ..£5150
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
withcartridgemachine andcleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20tb Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
anv address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
‘ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
MEN
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. *»
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted ersonally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown 500'Prescriptions, 50 Chapters and 193 Illustrations with Beaut. ul Four-Colored
Plate The most interesting up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide tor all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-cal 6
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffer,n§ S
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases, ho similar book has ever been published,
FREE
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Com
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost ot tne
Copy of
adV Toan n MEN° U D° U Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments"
on receipt of this adversisement. Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth ~st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Economical Hose.
We can supply you with good
hose at economical prices—prices
that make buying pleasant.
One of the least expensive
lines is a medium quality, stout
make of rubber hose.
, Ifc is Priced at 6Ad. foot, 12/6
i°r 25ft., 15/- for 30ft., 25/- for
50fc., and 30/- for 60ft.
. The best grade of English Hose
m a special quality of flexible
rubber costs 13<i. foot, 23/9 for
30ft., and 47/6 for 60ft.
If you cannot call, order by
post. We’ll satisfy you.
dsf
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“The House for AH Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
SAVE 20 H.P. IN EVERY inn H.P.
HYATT FLEXIBLE ROLLER BEARINGS.
Agents W. & J. LEMPRIERE, Melbourne.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
m
ivIARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT vet
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a Murd attain
imitations, look for the TRADE MARX onever
Importers: <Jcli?loS HcLFCtIR &
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Mt
reduced,
tinferior
.evv feet.
Co.,
cume.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES— IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is Packet of Ten, lOd.
d
LOOK
FOR
THE
NAME
WOLFE
*
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven . For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc
For Prices apply-J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
Asthma^Difficulty 1 Breathing, p? almg P ower * Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it effects 16 Che f ex P enen 'r e delightful and rapid relief; and to those
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice and itneitlS- T"' eomfortmg in allaying Irritation,
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs" have on the' U °fi T’ Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
W * * * V&
Chemht,Jetton;, vrctorit Forwarded lqCi. Proprletor ’ W ' «■ HEARNE,
f
sdf
Boiler Feed , Tank, Light Service, Mining, Horizontal <fc Vertical, Combined Boiler & Pump,
Single and Duplex and Triplex Power Pumps. all pumps thoroughly tested, and fully warranted.
DON’T WAIT 2 Send for Bulletins TO-DAY.
——i————————_——__— •' . .
The Card Concentrator
The Sperry Slimer
The King Screen
The B. & JT. Agitating Tanks
The Turnover Vacuum Filter
Awarded Crand Prize, World’s Fair, St; Louis.
A Perfect Core Drill.
Billett’s Tuyere
Gravity Concrete Hixer
Pancklasts
The Abbott Filter
All Kinds Explosives.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.
