

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—" TVFHtxr A P7S! ”
G-. &Z> CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR — .
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
• EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fir
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 lent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .
123 William St, Melbourne, Vic.
JEEQBAIIT.
talieg’sf rient fjetsf.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
every belt guaranteed.
J.C.Ludowici & Sen, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
lake
k
it
muM
5
Fine A| pic brand
HAMS ®
BACON
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
BRADLAUGH'S MOTTO WAS
“THOROUGH.”
Honey Kisses
are
Thoroughly Pure Sweets.
exM , &(LtJ(j&L<£ u s€&£]
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
AVOID TROUBLE-USE PERSAN TYRES!
The SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE in AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDKTHir.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
m
m
►YAL
ITCH
m
is the Queen oM Cocoas
sh;
THE
ONLY
Roofing
WITH
PATENT
fire
JOINT.
m
THE
ONLY
BAMPGOURSE
WITH
PATENT
FIRE
JOINT.
MSB
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in loss time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— s SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HEUDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA possesses bright and sparkling properties
with persistent effervescence*
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1491.]
[Thursday, September 10, 1908.
"Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS. George Robertson & Go. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET.
SYDNEY.
Weyman, Wild Geese, paper 2s 6d, cloth 8s 6d, post 6d.
Arthur Sullivan, His Operas, Is 3d, post 3d.
Benson, E. P., The Blotting- Book, 2s 6d, post 6d.
Brabv, Modern Marriage and How to Bear It, 3s od,p. 6d.
Donaldson, Woman : Her Position arid Influence in
Ancient Greece and Rome, Os, post 6d.
Snowden, Socialism and the Drink Traffic, paper Is 3d,
cloth bound Is 9d, postage 4d.
Thomas Hardy, The Dynasts, a Drama, 3 vols. each,
5s 6d, post Gd.
Nietzsche, Tims Spake Zarathustra, 10s, post Bd.
Nietzsche, Beyond Good and Evil, 6s, postage sd.
Nietzsche, In Outline and Aphorism, 3s, post 4d.
Hopkins, F. R. 0., Birds of Passage, 2s, postage 3d.
Gautier, Hoffmann, Poe “ World’s Story Tellers,” each
Is 3d, postage 3d.
riOANF AUSTRALASIAN ROADS, a Treatise, Practical and Scientific, on the Location,
U ’ struction and Maintenance of Roads and Pavements, cloth, illustrated, 16s, postage Bd.
'iffn. Con-
“ From the Old Dog,” by Frank Fox,
is at once a text-book, on Australian Radicalism
and a bright, witty, interesting yarn. It deals
with the big and the humorously small issues of
political philosophy, from “Titles” to “White
Australia,” “The Good Man Candidate,’ and
“The Disadvantages of Reins: Too Serious.’
Published by T. C. Lothian. Melbourne. On .sale
at booksellers and at this office, post free 2s. 9d.*
HUDSON’S
“EU MENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
shouid be of
special service
tO.L ecturer s,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
m
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of stamps from C. HUDSON, Manufacturing:
Chemist, 5 & 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
The RED PAGE
The Spirit Ironic
IN his old age Thomas Hardy has got
tired of novels, and for his last
message to his time he has turned
to the drama. But The Dynasts , a drama
of the Napoleonic Wars in three parts,
nineteen acts, and one hundred and
thirty scenes (Macmillan, 3 vols.) is
obviously no ordinary drama. In some
respects this huge and remarkable drama
is, like the hippopotamus, an immense
mistake; it is good in parts only;
Hardy’s genius is too prosaic for poetic
expression, his lack of humor leads him
into the ridiculous, and his outlook is
seldom dramatic. Yet, behind all the
obvious faults of this strange drama can
be discerned a great purpose logically and
finely carried out. It is this adumbra-
tion of Hardy’s philosophy of his old age,
his mighty pessimism, that gives a
unique value to The Dynasts.
For the purposes of his amorphous
drama, with its ironic conception of
humanity as mere mollusks moving on a
leaf, Hardy needed a point of view far
above our tiny globe. He had therefore
to create gods to view the scene and act
as Chorus. But Hardy does not believe
in our Christian God. So, for his gods,
this pessimist has had to create certain
phantasmal intelligences, such as the
Spirit of the Years, the Spirit of the
Pities, Spirits Sinister and Ironic, the
Spirit of Rumor, and the Shade of the
Earth. For the celestial machinery of
Milton’s Paradise Lost, or the Greek
mythology, Hardy had, of course, no use.
The drama, which Hardy rather need-
lessly tells us, is intended simply for
mental performance, begins and ends in
this overworld of phantasmal intelligences,
all of whom are servants of the Immanent
Will; and in his portrayal of this Imma-
nent Will Hardy advances a quite com-
prehensible point of view. Let us study
Hardy’s conception of the Supreme God,
which he variously sums up as a “groping
tentativeness,” an “ unmaiiced, unimpas-
sioned, nescient Will,” a force that
“ hauls the halyards of the world,”
The dreaming, dark, dumb Thing
That turns the handle of this idle show . . .
The Shade of the Earth :
What of the Immanent Will and Its designs?
The Spirit of the Years :
It works unconsciously, as heretofore,
Eternal artistries in Circumstance,
Whose patterns, wrought by rapt aesthetic rote,
Seem in themselves Its single listless aim.
And not their consequence . . .
The Spirit of the Pities :
Why doth It so and so, and ever so,
This viewless, voiceless Turner of the Wheel?
The Spirit of the Years.
As one sad story runs, It lends Its heed
To other worlds, being wearied out with this;
Wherefore Its mindlessness of earthly woes. . . .
Like a knitter drowsed,
Whose fingers play in skilled unmindfulness,
The Will has woven with an absent heed
Since life first was ; and ever will so weave.
More clearly one of the phantasmal
intelligences expresses Hardy’s concep-
tion of God, blind, dumb, and unself-
conscious.
O Innocents, can ye forget
That things to be were shaped and set
Ere mortals and this planet met ?
Stand ye apostrophising That
Which, working all, works but thereat
Like some sublime fermenting-vat
Heaving throughout its vast content
With strenuously transmutive bent,
Though of its aim unsentient? . . .
He of the Years beheld, arid we,
Creation’s prentice artistry
Express in forms that now unbe
Tentative dreams from day to day;
Mangle its types, re-knead the clay
In some more palpitating way ;
Beheld the rarest wrecked amain,
Whole nigh-perfected species slain
By those that-scarce could boast a brain ;
Saw ravage, growth, diminish, add,
Or peoples sane or peoples mad,
In choiceless round of good arid bad ;
Heard laughters at the ruthless dooms
Which tortured to the eternal glooms
Quick, quivering hearts in hecatombs.
In another passage one of the spirits
clinches this conception:
A fixed, foresightless dream
Is Its whole philosopheme.
Are then, Love and Light its aim—
Good to pursue and 111 to blame?
Nay; to alter evermore
Things from what they were before.
And, hopelessly, the pessimist cries
out at his chill and logical conception of
the Supreme will:
O Immanence, That reasonest not
In putting forth all things begot,
Thou build’st Thy house in space—for what!
O Loveless, Hateless ! —past the sense
Of kindly-eyed benevolence,
To what tune danceth this Immense?
But Hardy has yet his human hope.
Just as Man has at last emerged into
self-consciousness, Hardy believes that
the Immanent Will Itself will, in the
end, become self-conscious, will wake to
know how its dream-driven designs are
working out, will turn upon evolution
Its conscious intelligence and love. So
the great drama ends on this note of
philosophical hope :
Nay ; —shall not Its blindness break?
Yea, must not Its heart awake,
Promptly tending
To Its mending
In a genial germing purpose, and for loving-kind-
ness’ sake ?. . .
But a stirring thrills the air
Like to sounds of joyance there
That the rages
Of the ages
Shall be cancelled, and deliverance offered from
the darts that were.
Consciousness the Will informing, till It fashion
all things fair !
The point of view of these super-
natural intelligences is naturally far dis-
tant from that of humanity? Thus, in
observing the religious rites by which
Napoleon crowned himself at Milan, the
Spirit of the Pities asks :
What is the creed that these rich rites disclose?
The Spirit of the Years gives answer :
A local thing called Christianity,
Which the wild dramas of this wheeling sphere
Include, with divers others such, in dim,
Pathetical, and brief parentheses;
Beyond whose reach, uninfluenced, unconcerned,
The systems of the suns goes sweeping on
With all their manv-mortalled planet train
In mathematic roll unceasingly.
And Hardy utilises a peculiar device to
show the insignificance and yet the im-
portance of the movements of these
mollusks on a leaf. One of his frequent
stage-directions runs thus :
The scene assumes a preternatural trans-
parency, and there is beheld as it were
the interior of a brain which seems to mani-
fest the volitions of a Universal Will, of
whose tissues the personages in the action
form portion.
So, from their height, these extra-mun-
dane intelligences watch the army of
Napoleon crawling back from Aloscow.
The Spirit op the Years:
And what see you on the far land-verge there,
Laboring from eastward towards our longitude?
The Spirit of the Pities :
An object like a dun-piled caterpillar,
Shuffling its length in painful heaves along . . .
The Spirit of the Years:
Even the Army
Which once was called the Grand ; now in retreat
From Moscow’s muteness.
While to Napoleon himself the Spirit of
the Years thus speaks :
Such men as thou, who wade across the world
To make an epoch, bless, confuse, appal,
Are in the elemental age’s chart
Like meanest insects on obscurest leaves,
But incidents and tools of Earth's unfolding;
Or as the brazen rod that stirs the fire
Because it must.
And it is characteristic of the Chorus
of the Years, seeing the great equal with
the small, to turn from the conflict of
armies at Waterloo to consider the plight
of the humbler inhabitants of the battle-
field.
Yea, the coneys are scared by the thud of hoofs,
And their white scuts flash at their vanishing
heels,
And swallows abandon the hamlet roofs.
The moles’ tunnelled chambers are crushed by
wheels,
The larks’: eggs scattered, their owners fled,
And the hare’s hid litter the sapper unseals.
The snail draws in at the terrible tread,
But in vain ; he is crushed by the felloe-rim;
The worm asks what can be overhead,
And wriggles deep from a scene so grim,
And guesses him safe ; for he does not know
What a foul red flood will soak down to him !
Beaten about by the heel and the toe
Are butterflies, sick of the day’s long rheum,
To die of a worse than the weather-foe.
Trodden and bruised to a miry tomh.
Are ears that have greened but.will never be gold,
And flowers in the bud that will never bloom.
The drama with its innumer-
able scenes and characters, its
frequent use of “dumb show,”
labors under immense difficul-
ties ; yet the action sweeps
majestically on to its climax.
But Hardy, the humorless, often
drops into bathos in attempting
the impossible. He gives long
debates in the House of Com-
mons in indifferent blank verse,
and he makes his phantoms des-
cend to earth and converse with
his characters. But in his
prose he is the old Hardy. His
scenes with his Wessex villagers
are excellently done. Thus, the
Wessex peasants gravely discuss
the rumor that Napoleon feeds
on babies :
“ Perhaps He do eat Pagan in-
fants when he’s in the desert. But
not Christian ones at home.”
“Whether or no, I sometimes
laugh wi’ horror at the queerness
o’t. He should have the washing of
’em a few times ; I warrant a
wouldn't want to eat babies any
more ! ”
And his stage directions show Hardy’s
old powers of realism. Thus, picturing
the retreat of Napoleon’s Grand Army
from Moscow through the snow, he says-:
The caterpillar shape still creeps labori-
ously nearer, but, instead of increasing in
size by the rules of perspective, it gets more
attenuated, and there are left upon the
ground behind it minute parts of itself,
which are speedily flaked over [by the snow],
and remain as white pimples by the wayside.
And this is grim enough :
Hot corpses, their mouths blackened by
cartridge-biting, and surrounded by cast-
away knapsacks, firelocks, hats, stocks, flint-
boxes and priming-horns, together with red
and blue rags of clothing, gaiters, epaulettes,
limbs, and viscera, accumulate on the slopes,
increasing from twos and threes to half-
dozens, and from half-dozens to heaps, which
steam with their own warmth as the spring
rain falls gently upon them.
$
Hardy’s conception of the working out
of the Immanent Will in man is thus finely
spoken by Napoleon :
That which has worked will work ! Since Lodi
Bridge.
The force I then felt move me moves me on
Whether I will or no ; and oftentimes _
Against my better mind, . . . Why am I here?
—By laws imposed on me inexorably !
History makes use of me to weave her web
To her long while aforetime-figured mesh
And contemplated character}' : no more.
Well, war’s my trade; and whencesoever springs
This one in hand, they’ll label it with my
name ! . . .
Why did the death-drops fail to bite me close
I took at Fontainebleau? Had I then ceased,
This deep had been unpluinbed ; had they but
worked,
I had known three-fold the glow of Hannibal
Down History’s dusky lanes !—ls it too late? .. .
Yea. Self-sought death would smoke but damply
here !
If but a Kremlin cannon-shot had met me
My greatness w'ould have siood ; I should have
scored
A vast repute, scarce paralleled in time.
As it did not, the fates had served me best
If in the thick and thunder of to-day,
Like Nelson, Harold, Hector, Cyrus, Saul,
I had been shifted from this jail of flesh,
To wander as a greatened ghost elsewhere.
—Yes, a good death to have died on yonder field ;
But never a ball came passing down my way !
So, as it is, a miss-mark they will dub me.; .
And yet—l found the crown of France in the
mire,
And with the point of my prevailing sword
I picked it up ! But for all this and this
I shall be nothing. . . .
To shoulder Christ from out the topmost niche
In human fame, as once I fondly felt,
Was not for me . . .
Great men are meteors that consume themselves
To light the earth. This is my burnt-out hour.
The Dynasts is a big thing, full of
defects, infrequently lit by genius, but
finely intent on the working out of a
grandiose philosophic scheme of pessimism.
' ♦ - 4
How Alfred the Eloquent breaks into
blank verse ! Here is his greeting: to the
White Armada, with but a few words added
or changed :
Australia’s people greet the Americans
Who man the greatest armada that ever sailed
The southern seas. You fly the (splendid) flag
Of the nation nearest to our own in blood,
Which shares with our (own) Motherland the
armed
Guardianship of two oceans. We have
Awajted you with glad expectancy
And welcome you beneath (our) sunny skies
To a continent that slumbers lapped in peace.
With the exception of one “ rocky ” line,
this makes passable metre.
In a critical article entitled “ Un Noveau
Moliere,” in The Nineteenth Century ,
Augustin Hamon asserts that the dramatic
work of Bernard Shaw is in technique and
substance more French than English, and
predicts that Shaw will have a preponder-
ating influence upon the French' drama of the
future. And. here, though one of our
theatrical managers possesses, or is in a
position to possess, the rights for Shaw’s
plays, he shows no sign of producing them.
The drama of ideas is possibly somewhat
foreign to the Australian theatrical manager.
The Bulletin
Poets: 2.
Randolph Bedford, born in the Elizabethan
era, and still searching for it with an axe.
Business: six children. Recreation: selliug
mines to the guileless Mediterraneans.
Favorite authors : Bedford, Burton, F.
Morton, and the Wild Oat column. Pose:
trying not to look like a poet, because if you
look like a poet you can’t sell mines.
In defence of Edwin Markham, that
author’s Lincoln is here reprinted by request
of “ Hullin-Guflin.” It was reprinted in the
first number of The Lone Hand. But it is
to be feared that this poem, too, may merely
afford “O. 0. Cabot” further proof of
plagiarism :
The color of the ground was in him, the red earth ;
The tang and odor of the primal things—
The rectitude and patience of the rocks;
The gladness of the wind that shakes the corn ;
The courage of the bird that dares the sea ;
The justice of the rain that loves the leaves ;
The pity of the snow that hides all scars ;
The loving kindness of the wayside well;
The tolerance and equity of light
That gives as freely to the shrinking weed
As to the great oak flaring to the wind—
To the grave’s low brow as to the Matterhorn
That shoulders out the sky.
Arid so he came.
From prairie cabin up to Capitol.
One fair Ideal led our chieftain on.
For evermore he burned to do his deed
With the tine stroke and gesture of a king.
He built the rail-pile as he built the State,
Pouring his splendid strength through every blow,
The conscience of him testing every stroke.
To make his deed the measure of a man.
t He held his place—
Held the long purpose like agrowing tree —
Held on through blame and faltered not at praise,
And when he fell in whirlwind, he went down
As when a kingly cedar green with boughs
Goes down with a great shout upon the hills,
And leaves a lonesome place against the sky.
A useful technical work is Australasian Roads,
a practical and scientific treatise upon the con-
, struction and maintenance of roads, written by J.
M. Goane, H. E. Coane, and J. M. Coane, jun.,
Civil Engineers, Melb. (G. Robertson, Melb.).
The authors intend to do for Australasia what other
engineers have done for America and England,
where good roads are. properly appreciated ; and
the book deals interestingly with such questions
as the construction of metalled and paved roads,
and the perennial dust problem.


A.
a
i
SPRING SELECTIONS from the SHRINE OF FASHION
i . ' . ' ' l *
AT
THE NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
Fashions for
Fair Australians
at
Anthony Horderns’
Famous how Prices.
No. 844.-GIRLS’ PLAIN SOFT ORGANDIE
MUSLIN DRESSES, tucked and trimmed
Muslin Insertion —
■ Sizes, 20 and 22in. only.
■ 6/- 6/6
No. 870.—GIRLS’ WHITE PLAIN LAWN
DRESSES, tucked and trimmed Cambric
Insertion —
Sizes, 20 and 22in. only.
5/- 5/6
No. 831.-GIRLS’ FINE WHITE INDIAN
LAWN DRESSES, for Girls 5 to 12 years,
tucked and trimmed Valenciennes Edging
and Embroidery-
Full length, 24 27 30 .33 36in.
9/- 9/9 10/6 11/3 12/-
No. 1847.—LADIES’ FINE WHITE SOFT
ORGANDIE MUSLIN COSTUM E,
trimmed Embroidery and Valenciennes;
Half or Long Sleeves, fastened at back,
Small and Women’s sizes only ... 25/6
No. 68.-LADIES’ FINE SOFT WHITE
INDIAN LAWN COSTUME, Three-
quarter or Long Sleeves, tucked and trimmed
Embroidery and Valenciennes, fastened at
back ... ... ... 21/-
No. 1355.—PLAIN WHITE FINE ORGANDIE
MUSLIN COSTUME, tucked and trimmed
Valenciennes and Embroidery, Small and
Women’s sizes only ... ... ... 19/6
No. 219.—WHITE FINE SOFT INDIAN
LINEN COSTUME, tucked and trimmed
Embroidery ... ... ... 15/6
No. 832.—FINE SOFT PLAIN WHITE
INDIAN LAWN DRESS, tucked and
trimmed Embroidery and Valenciennes, full
length, 24 27 30 33 36in.
9/- 9/9 10/6 11/3 12/-
&»■
Ai
Si
#1
m
fj
m ■'
“•--
■
ss
*i»s
4*
*isp
ft?
ss-sf
• - ■
832
tml3re/?
m
/e
m
Comwtes
u
«w
Anthony Horderns
Clamours Cgou) JPrtcef.
38
30
27
m
17
39
2.6
StSB
in ZV/ii/e
TVqj/liny
Skirts
Anthony Horderns’
J famous prices
Smart SKirts
I
and
Wonderful
Washers.
No. 30.—FINE SOFT WHITE INDIAN
LINEN, tucked ;uid trimmed Embroidery
Insertion ; length, 38 to 44in. ; waist, 23 to
27in 7/0
No.'"27.—WHITE ORGANDIE MUSLIN
SKIRT, tucked and trimmed Muslin.lnser-
tion and Valenciennes ; length, 38 to 44ip. ;
waist, 23 to27in 12/6
No. 38—PLAIN WHITE LAWN, wide and
narrow tucks; length, 38 to 44in.; waist,
• 23t027in.... ... ... 4/9
No. 2.—STRIPE CAMBRIC COSTUME,
White ground, Black or Colored Stripes ;
S. W. and W. sizes only ; we cannot supply in
O.S.W. sizes ... S/9
Belt extra.
j i/r
No. 39.—WHITE LAWN SKIRT, tucked and
trimmed Embroidery; length, 38 to 44in. ;
waist, 23 to 27in... ... ... ■ 5/9
No. 26.—FINE SOFT INDIAN LINEN
SKIRT, tucked arid trimmed Embroidery
Insertion ; length, 38 to 44in. ; waist, 23 to
27in. ... ••• 16/9
No. 17.—WHITE LAWN SKIRT, tucked and
trimmed Embroidery ; length, 38 to 44in. ;
waist, 23 to 27in 7/0
Send for our SPRING AND SUMMER FASHION PORTFOLIO, illustrating the latest London and Paris Models,
POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


(MBIT
and other
SKINS;
A iso BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Iji-t c3L.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
1 FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
• xce Pti° na l facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS
m
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engravings, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Book of Nature, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, 1/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
King Koko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
How McDougall Topped the Score, 1/3. Lover’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio’s Decameron, 2/6.
Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under, the
Tiles, 1/3. My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramage, 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
Date, Easy Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Cordage, 1/3. How to Mesmerise, 1 /-.
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits of Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
wives’Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/-. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. How to Be-
come a Clairvoyant, 1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture,' lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
lOd. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/-;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, 1/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Bushranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smiler Hale’s
Novels, Bd. each.
m'-AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices l include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING *
immssmm
MMM)
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
MUSiC, as you like it,,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
to coaEPESTiTioisr.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
BBSS
CORStTS
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public ApproYal, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
-yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
i Tailor-Made Corsets over ail other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From s/ll to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STOREB.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
>, ~ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
&
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calakder, Hordern Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November 6th.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns,
or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
AN OLD RESIDENT S
TESTIMONY.
After Effects of Rheumatic Fever Cured.
“I have been living at No. 18 Arthur-street,
Balmain, for the past thirteen years,” said Mrs.
Jane Toovey, to our reporter, “and anybody in
that neighborhood could tell you what a wreck I
was three years after I settled there. It was
rheumatic fever that was the cause of it, and
when I tell you that for four months I was suffer-
ing from that dreadful complaint, you can form
an idea what a bad effect it had on my consti-
tution generally.”
“No doubt your internal organs were greatly
upset ? ” _ .....
“ Fearfully so ; my liver and kidneys being m a
very bad state, and I was so low and weak that I
could scarcely crawl about. But as well as being
so feeble, I had pains of the most excruciating
character to put up with, particularly in my head,
which was never free from them. And thefe was
an intensity about those pains which was enough
to destroy one’s reason—an incessant ache, ache,
ache, that took so much out of me that I hadn’t
the power left to do even the lightest of work.
What made matters worse, too, was not being able
to sleep, for several nights in succession passed,
and I would find myself awake all the time. Need-
less to say, that this helped to wear me out more
and more, and the pitiful part of it all was that
the medicines I had taken, in the hope of acquir-
ing relief from my burden of suffering, were quite
ineffective. I could have left them alone, for all
the good they did me. Giddy turns came on fre-
quently, and it was quite a common thing for me
to be feeling all right one moment and the next to
be in a dead faint. A strange sensation would
steal itself over me, and I’d gradually find myself
losing self control, and I would know no more till
the faintness passed, and consciousness was re-
gained. Oh ! I used to dread these attacks, for 1
felt sure I would one day pass away in that man-
ner. And talk about being nervous ! I was some-
thing terrible, any sounds causing me to start, and
I would tremble excessively. Besides this 1
was excitable in the extreme and so fret-
ful that the least thing would upset me tor
hours. What worried ine to no small extent was
the way my heart used to behave. It would start
beating so violently as to suggest the possibility
of jumping out of its place, and then die right
away, as if going to stop, to be followed by those
nasty fainting feelings that I dreaded so much.
And so my miserable life continued until I chanced
to get into touch with Clements Tonic, which I
can truthfully speak of as the best I have ever
taken in all my experience.”
“ More effective than the doctors ? ”
“Infinitely, as nothing but Clements Tonic re-
leased me from the awful depression of spirits I
labored under, and the head pains that I had en-
dured so long. It was splendid, too, for making me
eat, which was something new, as my appetite had
been non-existent for months. I had also been
feeling severe pains across the small of my back,
about my shoulders and chest, too ; but with the
advent of Clements Tonic I gained ease rapidly,
and soon was free from all my old torments. And
when my nights became more peaceful, and the
heart troubles began to disappear, I was relieved
of a load of care that I was glad to get rid of.
But what caused most surprise was the way I
threw off my nervousness. It was marvellous,
for not long before, I was always shaking, and
timorous in mind, and would not stay in the house
alone for all the tea in China, and after using
several bottles of Clements Tonic I was as right
as the bank. Not only had I gained in these
respects, but I was acquiring strength daily, and
soon felt as well as ever, with not an ailment left
unconquered.”
“ Well, if you have no objection to seeing your
experience in print, we will make use of them ? ”
‘ ‘ Nothing gives me greater pleasure than to tell
folks what a wonderful medicine Clements Tonic
is, so you are at liberty to publish all I’ve said, in
any form you think best. I know that Clements
Tonic cured me when I was very weak and ill,
and I know it can do the same for others, so do
what you like with my recommendation.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JANE TOOYEY, of 18 Arthur Street, Balmain,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my .full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this sixteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight.
before me, „ ..
6] T. D. GLASSCOCK, J.P.


'V
Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do we, for
we know that just a few doses of
2ii(er’&
■Cherry Sectoral
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Proparorf hv Dr. !, C. Avnr A. 0.. I ''■vnll. Mass.. 1). S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
r
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry FByers
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices..
| Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis
trict. Larne profit'
" easily made. Write a. once, using sufßcient postage,
tor free Art Catalogues and our Special OfTer
en sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CD..i» w .sso LIVERPOOL.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
“My son, Lauran, 12 years,
seemed to be just wasting
away, and everything I tried
seemed useless. However,
after the first bottle of
SCOT T’S Emulsion his I
appetite
improved
he slept much better, and
began to take an interest in
his lessons ; all the listless-
ness vanished, and he looked
and felt a different boy. I
continued SCOTT’S and he
is now quite strong and well.”
Thomas H. Collins.
30 Hereford Street, Glebe Point, Sydney,
2/8/07. [N.S.W.
Above is the Pi-oof in the Facts.
Hereis Proof in the Reason Why:
SCOTT’S alone was able to save
this lad because SCOTT’S differs
from all competitive emulsions in
m
being always made
of high-grade Lo-
foten cod liver oil
by the original per-
fected SCOTT pro-
cess, which secures
pleasant taste and
complete digestibil-
ity. The result is
an intense nutritive
energy unattain-
able by any other
means. SCOTT’S Emulsion has
dragged thousands from death’s
door. Therefore, when purchasing,
if you desire the SCOTT’S Emulsion
result, don’t ask for “Emulsion;”
ask for and get
Scott’s
Emulsion
—the difference between them
means a cure for you 1
See that “ the Fishman -with the Fish”
is on the package. Of all Chemists
and Dealers in Medicines.
■■SCOTT’S EMULSION «■
S 3
o
$
r^>
(©N
IRISH
IRISH MOSS
GEORGE BONNINGTON
Wm mm*
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
ESTAB. 1847.
f
Porous Piaster
For pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
Allcock’s Plaster.
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c. &c.
INSIST UPON HAVING
AllcockS
For Sore Throat. Coughs,
Bronchitis, for Weak Lungs,
and for painful and sensitive parts of
the abdomen, apply as indicated.
REMEMBER— Allcock’s Plasters have been sold by the millions for over 60 years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock’s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever.
For* Sale by throughout the Worldi ,
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1752.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Slot ice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd,
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Valentine’s Peak, Tasmania.
Sharply ’gainst the morning light
Stands the mountain, dusky-crested,
Where the fleecy clouds have rested,
Round the summits, purple-breasted,
Cleft with charms dark as night;
Silvery veils of bridal whiteness,
Shot with beams of golden brightness,
Draped with cloaks of airy lightness,
All the cliff sides out of sight.
Round the peak of Valentine
Flash the first fires of the morning,
All the naked cliffs adorning,
All the dusky night shades scorning,
Slowly spreading, line on line;
All the silent world awaking,
All the jewelled branches shaking,
All fresh wealth and beauty taking
Round the peak of Valentine.
Round the cliffs of Valentine
Spreads the dusk of hazy ranges,
Where the bushland knows no changes,
All so still and calm and strange is
’Neath the sentry’s shadow line.
Never there man’s marring traces
In those silent shadow places
Where the crystal streamlet races
Down the sides of Valentine.
On the spurs of Valentine
All the bushland is a-flower,
Tangled wealth of wild wood bower,
Drenched with many a dewy shower,
There a million diamonds shine,
And the wild birds, sweetly singing,
Chime like silver hour-bells, ringing
Notes of jewelled clearness flinging
Round the spurs of Valentine.
Round the cliffs of Valentine
Softly spreads the purple even
Ere the white star-fires of Heaven
Light the splendid spaces riven
In the dusky blue a-shine,
In a twilight calm and holy
Slowly steal the shadows lowly
When the last lights linger slowly
Round the cliffs of Valentine.
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
A Toast.
To the lovelight in your eyes,
To the beauty of your brow
Let me drain a bumper now.
Dare a man the toast despise
And another’s claim declare,
I will prove it that he lies,
Loudly let the glasses clink,
As we drink
To my Love!
To your skin of satin white,
To your swelling bosom warm,
And your yielding rounded form !
You are mine. I have the right
Of the lover who has dared.
Take the homage of your knight.
Loudly let the glasses clink,
As we drink
To my Love !
To your laughing lips that led,
By a flower-covered way.
Someone’s willing lips astray,
Let me drink ere night is fled ;
To your body and your soul !
See the wine is warm and red,
Loudly let the glasses clink,
As we drink
To my Love !
N.s.w.
HENRY HAUPTMANN.
In Praise of Death.
Out of the darkness that Life threw round me,
Out of the thunder of winds that mocked me,
Over the mountains you searched and found me,
Safe in those pitiful arms you locked me.
Spent was I, spent with a last endeavor,
Down the lone wilderness, hiding and creeping,
Now by the grace of your love, for ever
Peace is my portion, and dreamless sleeping.
Ever my eyes, through the tears fast falling,
Saw on the heights your lantern lighted ;
Echoing faintly, I heard your calling,
Crying to find me, the poor benighted.
Had you not sought me, I still were friendless ;
Had you not reached me, in dazed, dumb
wonder
Still I were lost in the darkness endless,
Stumbling and lost and shaken with thunder.
Clear as a far-off rose of lightning
Bursts on the edge of a stormwrack hoary,
Sheer on the hills to your splendor bright’ning,
You took your way in a pale sweet glory ;
Bent to me, staunching my wound’s swift bleeding,
Leant to me, kissing my subtle sorrow,
Lifted me; then with your lantern leading,
Bore my soul to the golden Morrow.
As I went glad through youth's world-wonder
Highwayman Life assailed, bereft me,
Filched all my strength and joy for plunder ;
Beaten and blind in. the dark he left me ;
Left me a wayfarer, old and lonely,
Stilled for ever my heart's glad laughter.
So you came beckoning. Death, you only,
Gave me to sleep in the long Hereafter.
MAORILAND.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.


o
£
S 0
&L\^
WUNDERLICH
METALfmi
CEI LINGS
Originated by expert Designers • « •
MODELLED by first-class artists
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists «
Erected by competent Tradesmen • *
Decorated by skilled Colorists • • ■ •
Modelled by first-class Artists
skilled in the interpretation of the
Designer's intentions, thus pro-
ducing the excellent modelling
for which our work is famous.
Write for Jllustrated (2dialogue .
56 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
POSTAL ADDRESS: 80X474G.P.0. SYDNEY.
243 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Winchester
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
Coco
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures
robust health.
JL
555
VV/S
ioße Joy
of Living {
BAINS’ WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
) i .
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living n it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
5 Mutual Life Building's, MAR-TIN PLACE.. SYDNEY.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE. U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
d' o g (o r
man)with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, or post free anywhere for 3/-.
m
The Chinese Ring' Bar Puzzle,
The- object
is to remove
the handle
from the
rings. You
get it out of
one ring,
you may get it out of two rings, hut can you get it
out of all the rings? It is sufficient to say that it
can be done. Very neatly and perfectly made, and
can be carried quite easily in the vest pocket. Made
of polished brass. This puzzle was made in China in
the early part of this century, and a few were
brought home made of ivory. Price complete, with
full directions, //- post free anywhere.
ill@S(f(jy
mum***
The “Joker” Trick Matchbox
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening' the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
’ vest pocket. Price, with full directions, 7d. postfree.
The Joker’s Indiarubber Snake.
One of our most successful surprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can he held in a closed
hand without being noticed. Springs out of the
hand in a most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price 1/3 post free anywhere,
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 GEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
The Carring'ton Hotel,
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Ideal Winter Climate.
Winter Terms, Bs. per Day ; £2 2s. per Week.
A. L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
AN HONEST PROPOSITION
TO PARTIALLY
DEAF PEOPLE.
The 41 EXTRA EAR ”
is a scientifically constructed HEARING APPARATUS, which can be
worn with comfort at Home, in Church, Theatre, or Concert Hall.
Weight under
The “EXTRA EAR” is not “invisible” or “ electric,” nor will it cure you of deafness, but it is
just the most useful instrument invented to date for the comfort of anyone whose'hearing is defective.
Price 215., postage paid, to any address. Money Order or Postal ,Notes must accompany orders.
OUR GUARANTEE. —Money refunded in full if Instrument is found unsuitable, and is posted back to
us in original wrapper within seven days of receipt. [Please mention this paper.
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD ~ The Surgical Supply House,
Contractors to Queensland Government and Hospitals. BRISBANE, Q.
Reference : English, Scottish and Australian Bank,! Ltd.—All Branches. N.B.—We publish no testimonials
. '
m&m
-1
/
J
WM
mm
• V
: .. ;
:v^
S&
■
i ,*;•:•
I PLY
.* - *
I *
I
I
r
P#l»*logiSfc
I (
I^ll
RUBEROID
ROOFING
INDONEI
m
:; :r ,„ * HHS!*; *-a H' - -
' _ :
■ .
»
.
" mmm
%
*
W&B
A
:'-V 1 .
2?
H
AsR
the
Man
who
has
used
it.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0 149'.:.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1908.
Price 6o
BALAAM: A DRAMA IN ONE ACT.
CAST.— BALAK : Premier Wade of N.S.W. BALAAM: N.S.W. Auditor-General Vernon. CHILDREN OF ISRAEL Bill Lyne.
“The Fede al proposals contain the elements of a workable scheme, whilst it has been shown that, taken from a purely monetary standpoint, results work out favorable to the
States.”— The N.S.W. Auditor-General on LYNE'S proposals for the division of the Tariff Revenue—the proposals which Wade declares to he ruinous to the States and quite impossible.
“How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel.”— Balaam turning dog on his paymaster.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiir Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and a,ll Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Hore to A rldress Betters.
Correspondents to Tiir Bulletin would, oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It. is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullrtin,” is the proves
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
oJUdals. 'The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped, letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce, or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and. not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications tvill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Thk Bullrtin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are. enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bullrtin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. 7llaeJe find While.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
ami interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bullrtin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada .—C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Dong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
StfT^xzZle&ii.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 190 S.
DRY CITIES.
The great trouble of Australia is lack of water.
Whenever the regulation drought comes along it
is the land of Dry Cities—also of dry towns and
villages and hamlets. Its dryness is the charac-
teristic that shrieks up and down the page of
history and will not be denied. Over and over
again Sydney—though it is situated in a fairly
well-rained-upon region, and collects its water
supply from some 500 square miles of mountain
land, and has a splendid waterworks service—has
been in serious straits, and only six years ago the
ukase went forth that lawns and gardens were to
be left desolate, and the public was asked to put
no more dampness in the bath than would cover its
feet, and the act of allowing a water-tap to run
promiscuously was made almost a hanging matter.
Brisbane is also short of water a good part of the
time; a few years ago it was so short that the
local authorities proposed to cut through the sand-
bars on the upper part of the Brisbane Hi ver, so that
the banked-up water, the sodden weeds, the mud,
the dead animals —cows and smaller things ; by
the blessing of Providence there were no deceased
elephants—also the germs and sundries might
wash down to the city, and be swallowed promis-
cuously. Maryborough has had water difficulties.
Twenty-two years ago the writer fled out of -Rock-
hampton, holding his stomach with both hands,
because for weeks brackish water from the river
had been pumped by the despairing city fathers
into the reservoir, and it was black like ink, and
made the inexperienced drinker deadly sick ten
minutes after consumption. Melbourne is short
of water to-day—so much so that lamentable
prognostications are made as to the possibilities of
fire and wide destruction. Ballarat, just before
last week’s rain, was so short of water that
not only did it not know what it would
drink and wash with this summer—for man cannot
live by beer alone —but the lake which is its pride
and glory was drying up rapidly, and Ballarat was
full of dread lest Bent should sell the bed of it as a
farm. Kalgoorlie is so short of water that it
brings the precious fluid at vast expense some 360
miles through pipes. Broken Hill lives on the
edge of drought much of the time, and has mote
than once been reduced to bringing water by tram
from South Australia. And these are only a few
out of a multitude of cases. The struggle for some-
thing drinkable is the characteristic of Australia.
It is pre-eminently the land of Dry Cities.
* * * *
Now Australia is going to deliberately construct
a city—one which should some day, in the ordinary
course of events, be the greatest in all the con-
tinent, for it will be the only city on earth
which is the capital of a whole continent.
The situation is unique. Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth, etc., rather happened than
were constructed. They were located by
strangers or comparative strangers. Their
founders knew little either of the climate or the
country. They had no idea that the tiny
wooden villages they constructed would ever be
great; and, in their ignorance of the climate
and the land and the future, they naturally
fancied that so long as there were a few buckets
of clean water in sight all was well. But the site
of the new city will not be selected by accident;
and it will be selected by men who know Aus-
tralia—its droughts, its dust-storms, its mirages,
its dried-up rivers, its roads with their 80- or 100-
mile dry stages in bad years, its Outback
travellers who have died of thirst and been eaten
by crows, and all the other disadvantages by
which it is liable to be struck when its luck is
out. Therefore those who love Australia have
hunted for a big, cool, clear, ever-flowing river
beside which to plant the new city—the one
which is to be a matter of deliberate choice
and not the result of a mere careless, acci-
dental dumping down of an explorer’s tent. Their
choice was limited, for nine-tenths of Australia is
ruled out under the Constitution, and that dis-
qualifies an enormous proportion of the well-
watered part of the continent. Still there re-
mained the Snowy—the only stream in all N.S.W.
which, by reason of the snow-clad peaks behind it,
flowed steadily and constantly and in great, clear
volume all through the dreadful 1902 drought,
when every other river in the State became
in places a mere chain of waterholes, and
even Sydney was warned not to put more
than 4in. of water in its bath lest the Law
should fall upon it and deliver it into the
hands of Isaacs, S.M. In this land of Dry Cities
it was natural and reasonable that every patriot
should want to seize the chance to build one City
that wasn’t Dry, so that it might be at all times a
credit to the country and a pleasant green spot on
the face of things.
* ♦ * *
And the crowd which hates Australia and only
regards the States, and which doesn’t really
regard more than a fragment of them, for
it concentrates its pride on the over-bloated
centres of Sydney and Melbourne, has care-
fully drawn up plans and specifications for
the making of another Dry City—an extra-Dry
one. Their view is that Sydney (which, in their
view, is really Wade) and Melbourne (which, in
their view, is really Bent) are Australia, and that
to create a City Beautiful, which might possibly,
in course of years, overshadow Wade’s domicile
and the place where Bent hangs out, would be a
grievous insult. It might be good for Australia,
but Australia doesn’t count compared with Sydney
and Melbourne—not that Sydney and Melbourne
would be disadvantaged one whit by the growth
of a noble capital, but because these people have
the small minds which are calculated to make
Paddington feel mad at Surry Hills, and Nyngan
get wild with Dandaloo. So they hunted carefully
for a dusty region infested by many grasshoppers
and rabbits—a place with no scenery and no port,
and only a hatful of water to drink, and even that
hatful, the famous Cotter Trickle, already mort-
gaged along with a dozen other Trickles of the
same calibre to fill the State’s Barren Jack
reservoir. And there they propose to build a
capital, which will probably be called the City of
Brown Misery—to build it in the glad conviction
that, by reason of its want of water, it will never
dare to grow big, and that its smallness, as com-
pared with the principal State capitals, will
express their view of the awful insignificance of
Australia as compared with the States which
make up Australia. In the utter dearth of any
real argument against the picturesque well-watered
site by the Snowy River some of them have fallen
back on the mental barrenness of their old, shop-
worn yarn, and declare that the choice of Dalgety
is somehow instigated in the interests of “Rome”
—that good old standby which always conies in
handy when other arguments fail; and that Can-
berra is a good Protestant site with all the
elements of the Walls of Derry about it.
• * * *
It is an amazing circumstance that, in this Land
of Dry Cities, there should be people who seek to
deliberately build the Driest City of All, when
there is a glorious abundance of water not many
miles from the horribly Dry spot of their selection
—people who clamor that, in some inscrutable
way, their State will be robbed and insulted unless
an utterly Dry locality is selected, and who
almost threaten to secesh and revolushe unless the
Drouth of the site chosen for the metropolis of
Australia is up to their standard in the way of
misery and grasshoppers. Even during the
recent years of splendid rainfall—as rainfall goes
in Australia —Canberra had nothing to visibly
recommend it save its hopeless ordinariness and
its hatful of water. When the old-man drought
comes again, a new city planted there would pro-
bably make even its present advocates feel
ashamed. Dryness may be a virtue to some minds,
but it can be overdone and carried to excess.
A CONTINENT AND SOME CATER-
PILLARS.
Mr. Wade to move, —“ That this House approves of the
resolutions agreed to at the Premiers’ Conference held in
Melbourne in Apri 1-May, 1908, viz. : —‘ That, in view of the
fact that upon the State Parliaments devolves the duty of
developing- the resources of their respective States by
means of land settlement, railway construction, irrigation
and other public works, and that they arecharged with the
responsibility of maintaining adequate education and
charity systems, and providing for the administration of
justice and other services, the financial obligations con-
nected with which will inevitably increase with the
growth of population, no financial scheme can be assented
toby the States which does not provide for their receiving
(a) a fixed annual sum ; and (6) a proportionate part of
all increases in revenue from Customs and Excise.’”—
Business Paper of N.S. W. Assembly.
The Federal proposals contain the elements of a work-
able scheme, whilst it has been shown that, taken from a
purely monetary standpoint, results work out favorable
to the States. . . .
As to benefits of the scheme—the following are the im-
mediate and prospective advantages which will be ob-
tained directly or indirectly on its application :
Immediate : 1. Fixed annual sum of £6,000,000 to be
allocated to States during the five years commencing
from 1911. 2. State Treasuries of New South Wales and
Victoria relieved of payments of old-age, invalidity, and
accident pensions, amounting annually to over £750,000.
3. State Treasuries to be almost immediately relieved of
cost of maintenance and up-keep of Departments of Navi-
gation, Immigration, and Quarantine.
Prospective : 1. Other State departments to be trans-
ferred. 2. Fixed annual sum of £6,000,000 to be raised to
£6,091,785 in 1916, and yearly increased by £91,785 until
the vear 1945, when the sum that would be allotted to
the States would reach 8| millions. 3. States relieved of
the interest on, and indebtedness of, 244$ millions (on
consideration of severing all interest in Customs and
Excise collections in 1945 ).—Auditor-General Vernon, of
N.S. W.
And Balak’s anger was kindled against Balaam, and he
smote his hands together; and Balak said unto Balaam,
“ I called thee to curse mine enemies and behold thou
hast altogether blessed them.”— Scripture.
* * * *
The ill-luck of the N.S.W. anti-Australian party
when it relies on the State’s public servants to
help it on its disreputable way is something too
dreadful for words. The bitterest curse of that
party has arisen during the last four years because
the Australian Parliament considered the interests
of the country at large in its selection of a Federal
capital, instead of selecting some hopeless spot
where the Federal city could never grow to be a
noble metropolis that would overshadow Sydney
and Melbourne, and where it would be a mere
suburb of Sydney and be compelled to send all its
trade to that city. In their fury the parish-
minded push has used language about Monaro,
regarded as a site for a capital, which
would have been unreasonably violent if used
about a dog-kennel or an ash-heap. Yet
it is oppressed by the fact that it was
the late Alexander Oliver, a trusted and
capable N.S. VV. public official, specially appointed
by the N.S.W. Government at the request of the
Federal authorities to report on proposed capital
sites, who chose Monaro, and recommended it as
the best possible locality in N.S.W. That was a
painful episode, and when the anti-Australians
recall it they feel sorry for Balak the King, and
understand how he felt in Midian long ago. And
now the painful episode of Balak and Balaam
repeats itself once more. Certain of the State
Premiers, in their sordid desire to enlarge the
dignity of their own jobs and billets, even if they
ruin Australia in the process, demand a financial
arrangement which will give them, for State pur-
poses, whether they need it or not, prac-
tically all the State and Federal revenue that is
going, and leave the Commonwealth impotent and
penniless, or thereabouts. That would make the de-
fence of the country impossible; it would make the
transcontinental railways and the opening up and
development of the Northern Territory impossi-
ble ; also it would make old-age pensions, and an
effective quarantine system, and a rapid extension
of posts and telegraphs, and many other things
practically impossible. The arrangement would
be desperately bad for Australia. But, on the
other hand, the fact that the Australian Parlia-
ment had hardly any money, and could do really
nothing, would make it and the Australian
Government small and contemned and unim-
portant ; so that, by comparison, Bent and Wade
and Newton Moore and Jacky Evans would
loom up and obliterate the horizon. These things
look good to Bent and Wade and Newton Moore
and Jacky Evans. Now, just in the middle of
the conspiracy, the N.B.W. Auditor-General, who
is supposed to speak the last word on State
finance, reports (in effect) that the financial propo-
sals of Federal Treasurer Lyne are eminently fair
and liberal to the States, and (by implication) that
the clamor against them is mostly selfishness and
lies. This re-appearance of Balaam, the prophet,
is awkward, to say the least; but Balaam always
was an awkward person.
* ■* * *
The matter which first catches the eye is the
brigandish attitude of State Premier Wade. It is
an attitude of studied insolence and needless dis-
courtesy, combined with a bushranging air and
an aspect of piracy on the high seas. “No finan-
cial scheme can be assented to by the States which
does not provide,” etc. The assent of the States
isn’t required to any scheme for the division of
the Australian revenues after the year 1910; all
that is needed is the assent of the Australian
Parliament’s own constituents, the people of
Australia. The Federal Convention, elected by
the people to draw up the Constitution
of Australia, offered to the State Governments in
perpetuity three-fourths of the Customs and
Excise receipts. The people of all the States in
which a referendum was taken (N. S. Wales
included) accepted the Constitution in which this
offer was embodied. But the N.S.W. Parliament
and the Reid-Carruthers Ministry (which after-
wards became the Carruthers-Wade Ministry)
treacherously and insolently annulled the popular
acceptance of that original Constitution, and de-
manded a new arrangement whereby, after 1910,
every penny of the Customs and Excise revenue will
be placed under the sole control of the Australian
Parliament. Last year, the Commonwealth re-
turned to the States between £7,000,000 and
£8,000,000. After 1910, it need not return them
a penny—thanks wholly to the dreadful N.S.W.
Legislature and the loony Reid-Carruthers
Government. Under these conditions, the trucu-
lent attitude of the Wade Government (which
is simply a continuation of the old Reid-
Carruthers crowd) in announcing what it will or
won’t consent to in the matter of the division of
the Federal revenue, is merely a useless
cursing at the general arrangement of things. It
has thrown away all right to a voice in the mat-
ter. Ten years ago the N.S.W. Legislature de-
clared that'N.S.W. would burst up the Federal
movement unless all claim on the part of the
State Parliaments to any Customs or Excise
revenue after the year 1910 was abolished, and
the other States reluctantly consented. There-
fore the present bluff is a futile thing and of no
account.
But the Australian Government has made no
attempt to take advantage of the situation created
by the bounding vanity of George Reid —the man
who must needs show his silly little importance
by making alterations in the Constitution on
his own meddlesome little responsibility.
In fact, its proposals are very large and liberal
and are calculated to put the States in an even
better position than they occupy at present. This
fact has been often explained before ; and now the
statement is corroborated by a purely State official
of N.S.W.—an official who is supposed to know
so much of public finance that he is appointed at
a high salary to overhaul the accounts of people
'like Oarruthers and Wade and Waddell. If
he doesn’t know his business then he has no right
to be in his present position, and if he does know
it the resolution which Gregory Wade calls
upon the N.S.W. Assembly to pass is merely
an example of that person’s resolve to quarrel
with the Australian Government all the time, and
to be mean and paltry and parochial and anti-
Australian at any cost. The proposals of the
Australian Government are briefly as follows
(1) That the Commonwealth should take charge of all
the State debts, and pay at first £6,000,000 a year towards
the interest. , ~ .
(2) That the Commonwealth’s payments should increase
vear by year, until by 1945 they amount to £8,750,000. That
is to sav, by 1945 thie Commonwealth is to pay the interest
on all the existing State debts and leave the States free
of liability. , ~ , ~
(3) That the Commonwealth should also relieve the
States of their entire liability fpr sinking funds. (In
N.S.W. this amounts to about £350,000 a year.)
(4) That the Commonwealth should further relieve the
States of their old-age pension liabilities, (In N.S.W.
these amount to over £500,000 a year.)
(5) That the Commonwealth, as a side issue, should
relieve the States of a number of small expenses (quaran-
tine, lighthouses, etc.), which all add something to tne
total.
« * » *
These offers are certainly lavish, especially con-
sidering that they come from a Federal authority
which, after the year 1910, isn’t bound to part
with a penny. They would give N.S.W., roughly
speaking, £3,100,000 or £3,200,000 a year to begin
with, in cash or in the shape of relief from expen-
diture ; and this is more than N.S.W. has e'er yet
received, except in the year j ust closed (and that
was an amazing boom year) when the figure rose
unexpectedly to nearly £3,600,000. And tne
Federal subsidy is to steadily increase till it
comes, in the case of N.S.W., to about £3,900,000
a year, which will be ahead of anything yet re-
corded. Moreover, instead of the return to the
States being a fluctuating and precarious one,
dependent on the rise or fall of Customs and
Excise returns (and these fluctuate so much
that N.S.W.’s share has been down below
£2,400,000), it will be fixed, and the Common-
wealth will take all risk of fluctuations and losses
and bad years. When the land or railway or
tramway or land-tax or income-tax revenue booms,
or when all of them boom together, the whole
profit is to go to the State. All the Common-
wealth asks is that if there is a boom in Customs
or Excise it will get the benefit, but at the same
time it offers to stand the whole slump when there
is a slump. The N.S.W. Government alleges
that it is so rich that, even after reducing taxa-
tion, it has a surplus of £1,600,000 this year, Ihe
Commonwealth, which has no surplus at all,
offers terms which will, in a very few years, make
the allegedly bloated State of N.S.W. richer than
it is now. Even the average motor hog or the
horse-leech’s daughter might regard the offer as
liberal.
* * ■* »
But certain State Premiers, in their desire to
swell their own importance and to degrade and
beggar the Australian Parliament, profess to be
bitterly wronged by these proposals, and reply to
them with a demand which is practically to this
effect: —
As Regards the States.
(1) That the State Governments shall possess the entire
railway revenue, as at present, and all future increases of
railway revenue. '
(2) That the State Governments shall retain all the
land revenues as heretofore, and all. increases in land
values arising through Federal works and the expenditure
of Federal money.
(3) That the State Governments shall retain all the
revenues arising from direct taxation, and all increases in
these revenues shall be their sole property. (It has even
been laid down —and laid down over and over again by
State Frights persons like Oarruthkrs and Senator
Gould, that there is no Federal right of direct taxation,
and that this source of revenue belongs wholly to the
State.) .
(4) That the State Governments shall retain all the
revenues from water supply and other works, all the
mining revenue, and revenue from fines, fees, forfeitures,
and miscellaneous sources, and all increases in these
revenues.
(5) That the State Governments shall have a first mort-
gage on the Customs and Excise revenue to the extent of
£7,000,000 or £7,500,000 per annum.
(6) That the State Governments shall have a second
mortgage on the Customs and Excise revenue. It is
suggested that this should take the form of a payment by
the Commonwealth to the State Governments of so much
per inhabitant on all population in excess of that already
existing. Various sums, from 10s. to 80s. per inhabitant,
have been mentioned. It has also beeh proposed that the
State Governments shall receive £7,500,000 certain and
the half of what is left, so that out of a tariff revenue of
£10,000,000, they should take £8,750,000, and leave the
Commonwealth £1,250,000.
And as Regards the Commonwealth.
(1) That the Commonwealth shall have the profits of
the Post Office, which at present are nil, all the surplus
revenue being required for improvements and extensions.
(2) That it shall have the miscellaneous receipts as at
present. These amount to about £60,000 or so per
annum.
(3) That it shall have the variable and uncertain
scrap of Customs and Excise revenue that remains after
the States’ two claims are satisfied. And it must be re-
membered that Customs revenue, at all events, is more
likely to diminish in proportion tq population than to
increase. As the country manufactures more it imports
less. The United States, prosperous as it is, collects only
about £1 7s. 6d. per inhabitant in Customs and Excise.
The State Frights in Australia have seriously suggested
that, as regards the first 4,000,000 or so of Australian
population, the State Governments should be guaranteed
in perpetuity a sum equal to about £llss. per head as
their share, and should also receive a huge indefinite
subsidy in addition.
* * * *
Unless the financial statements of Wade and
Waddell —the men who say that they were
driven to reduce taxation because they were too
much bloated with wealth, and who allege that
they have £1,600,000 surplus even after the reduc-
tion —are all a disreputable lie, N.S.W. has no
need at all for the extra revenue after which these
persons- are clamoring. The only visible reason
why the extra revenue should be demanded is the
vicious desire to humiliate and cripple the Aus-
tralian Parliament, and the savage craving to ruin
Australia as a whole in order that the State Pre-
miers, who, after all, are only so many spots or
incidents on the surface of events, may be glori-
fied. The Australian Government has a lot of big
things to do. It has to provide for the defence of
this continent to begin with, and it is perpetually
taunted with the fact that Australia doesn’t carry
its fair share of the cost of defence. If Australia
paid for its defence on the same scale per in-
habitant as the United Kingdom does,
the bill would be £6,000,000 per annum
—it is a case of paying something not
very far short of £6,000,000 per annum
or being jeered at for hanging on to the skirts of
Poor Old Mother. The Commonwealth has also
to take over the Northern Territory, and open it
up, and settle it with a strong white population,
for the Lost Province is bur weak point and a
constant source of insecurity. The Lost Province
is nearly twice the size of N.S.W., and needs a lot
of money spent on it to make it available for
settlement, and it has a lot of old liabilities to be
paid off. Also the Commonwealth has two trans-
continental railways to build, in order to open up
the wildernesses of which the State Governments
made nothing but a bad debt; and it will have a
third transcontinental to build later on, for a rail-
road across Northern Australia from east to west
will be as badly needed as a similar line further
south. It has 7000 miles of coast line to light, and
some sundries to attend to. All these things need
money, and the Australian who is able to rise
above the mere parish aspect of things—the
Australian who is a Washington rather than a
Bumble, and who is capable of thinking in con-
tinents instead of merely contemplating in Pad-
dington or Collingwood—would never dream of
grudging the money. But these large continental
undertakings can’t be done with the proceeds of a
precarious third mortgage on the tariff revenue,
which is the resource that the small-souled Wade
crowd professes to regard as sufficient for the
Government of Australia. That Government is
the only one on earth which runs a whole con-
tinent and some islands, but the Wade push sees
nothing soul-inspiring in such a circumstance.
In fact, the circumstance apparently only makes
the Wade push feel meaner and smaller, anil
more cantankerous, and more howling mad,


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Education Bill.
The Anti-Education Party in Australia threatens
to make no small row over the land-defence pro-
posals of the Deakin Government when they
come up next session, the groundwork of the row
being the statement that “the nation hasn’t been
consulted ” on the matter at a General Election.
Unhappily, in the absence of the .Referendum,
the nation can’t really be consulted in any coherent
fashion, and never is. The Ministry goes to the
country on a dozen or more proposed
measures ; also on the strength of the measures it
has already passed ; also on its general adminis-
tration, financial and otherwise; also on the
general character of its members, and the fact
that they haven’t cussed publicly, or been seen
drunk, or gone off with anyone else’s wife ; also
on the demerits of the measures its opponents
intend to carry if they get the chance, and
the demerits of their financial and other
administration when they had the chance.
Amid all this confusion, the public isn’t
consulted about anything nearly so much as
it thinks it is ; and, until the .Referendum is
adopted, it is difficult to see how it can be con-
sulted any more than it is. Still, there are
no features about the Deakin Government’s land
defence proposals that call for anything wild or
special or violent or extra in the way of a refer-
ence to the people, if it was proposed to do
some revolutionary proceeding that would griev-
ously upset the usual order of things, there might
be reason for all the shindy and bogus woe of the
Anti-Education Party, but nothing of the kind is
suggested. The Australian Government proposes
to give to the male community about 13 weeks or
less of compulsory education —and that is abso-
lutely all. As things stand, about seven
years’ education is compulsory already, and
it is now proposed to add about three
months’ education on top of this. The new
education will cothprise two main subjects
—shooting and military evolutions. When the
N.S.W. Government added brushwork,, Sloyd,
plaster modelling, and beetle-hunting to its educa-
tional system it didn’t feel called upon to make
any special appeal to the people at a general
election, or to dissolve Parliament, or to do any
unusual performance whatsover ; it just did these
things off its own fiat, and reckoned that if the
public was very bitterly enraged at brushwork
and beetle-hunting, it would signify to that effect
by throwing out the Ministry at next opportunity.
The Australian Government proposes to follow
thid precedent with its educational scheme—for it
is an educational scheme pure and simple. Despite
the bogus horror and the loud hypocrisy of the
Tory press, and its shrieks of “Conscription,”
there is nothing contemplated beyond education.
The young men of Australia, after they
have been taught some shooting and some
drill, won’t be a fraction more liable to
be called out for military service than they
are now. It has always been recognised that the
right to call out the able-bodied adult male popu-
lation for the defence of the country—for defence,
not offence—is inherent in every Government.
That fact is as fully acknowledged in England as
in any other place. The only question is whether,
at an extremity, the male population shall be
called out in an educated or an uneducated condi-
tion. By reason of that old-established outrage
on the liberty of the subject, the compulsory State
school system, it is already provided that the men
of Australia shall be called out in a partially-edu-
cated condition-—that they shall have some know- >
ledge of geography, which is very useful to
a soldier; that they shall be able to
read written orders, and, if sent out' scout-
ing, to write, if necessary, a report of what
they have seen; and that they shall have
other scraps of information that come in
handy on a campaign. The Deakin Government
proposes to add to th s a knowledge of shooting
and of elementary tactics; When the Anti-
Knowledge Barty gets angry about this proposed
spread of information and shouts “ Gonscription !”
it is just as irrelevant as if it shouted “ Eire ! ” or
‘‘ Mad dog ! ” or “ No Ropery ! ” The fact that a
supply of rifles will also be laid in doesn’t in the
least alter the argument. Rifles will be wanted
in any case, whether an educated army is going to
use them intelligently (should necessity arise) as
the Deakin Government proposes, or whether an
illiterate horde is going to hit with the butt end at
a crisis, as the Anti-Knowledge Party would fain
have it. The existence of the rifles no more implies
that the Australian Government is going to
fire them recklessly and needlessly at anybody,
than the purchase of a quantity of school
slates by the State Education Department proves
that it intends to bring them down heavily on
anybody’s head. Perhaps by way of explaining
the position more clearly to the thick-headed
Anti-Knowledge Party, it might be a good thing
to re-chfisten the measure which provides fpr
compulsory military training, and call it the
Federal Education Bill, or something like that.
Matters can’t be explained too clearly to the
Anti-Information Party.
—
The Sydney “Telegraph’s” Australian—a
Skulker in the Rear.
Among much United States Fleet literature, this
sample from a Sydney Telegraph leading article
of September 3 is worth quoting :
The squadron nowin Port Phillip cost in round numbers
and on an inside estimate, £"20,000,000 to build and arm.
In addition to the interest on that sum, there is the up-
keep of the Fleet to be financed, which must run into
very big figures per week, not to speak of per month or
year. Imagine such an expenditure being struggled with
by a community which cannot find the money to equip
its land defences, to provide marksmen with rifles, or to
substitute modern guns for obsolete ones in the fixed
defences! Suppose, however, that it could foot the bill
for a fleet, to build one like that now visiting us would
be no more than to put down the first mile of a railway
line. In a speech which he made a day or two ago, Cap-
tain Murdoch, of the Rhode Island, made the most
significant remark that the Fleet represented only
10 years’ growth. “ There is not a ship here that was in
the Spanish war,” he said. It is only 10 years since the
war was fought, but in that time the United States has
had to supply itself with a navy of brand-new ships, so
fast does discovery move in these things, so changeable
are models and methods, so incessant is the improvemenr,
which, if made in one country, desperately challenges
another to produce something better. Less than another
10 years may, perhaps, see these great battleships into
obsolescence, and America will be fortunate, indeed, if
she replaces them numerically with ships of the new type
at th 6 same cost. In the Australian outlook the thought
of a navy of such a character as this, or on its model in
any respect, is only possible to a dreamer of dreams. The
awake would never give consideration to such sheer non-
sense. It would be expensive far beyond Australia’s
financial capabilities, and it would be absolutely unneces-
sary because a locally-owned ocean navy would lie unem-
ployed behind the British:fleets while they did the work.
If someone could only put the Telegrah’s hairy
editor in the witness box and cross-examine him
on that leading article the evidence should be in-
teresting. Supposing Australia paid as much per
inhabitant for defence as Britain does, it could
have, inside five years, a fleet of its own as good
as that which the Yankees brought to Australia,
and it could afterwards maintain and renew that
fleet without paying any more per head for De-
fence than Britain does. The Telegraph says
that “it can’t be done,” but doesn’t explain why
it can’t. If Australia maintained, in proportion
to population, a navy of the same size as Britain
does it would have seven battleships, 12 cruisers,
and 35 other vessels. The Telegraph again says
“it can’t be done,” but doesn’t explain why it
can’t. During a long course of Freetrade argu-
ment the Telegraph has grown so accustomed
to saying “it can’t be idone” that it now
makes the remark in its sleep; whenever
Australia has threatened to manufacture any thing
and thereby damage the foreign importing business,
the rotten old paper always got up to explain,
just as it does now, that the affair couldn’t be
done, and its feet are worn out through much
standing up to get off that observation. But the
prize lunacy is the Telegraph’s explanation as to
why an Australian fleet would be useless even if
we had it: “ It would lie unemployed behind the
British fleets while they did the work.” In that
case what on earth is the use of the Japanese
alliance, for the Japanese army and ships will also
“lie unemployed” behind the British forces while
they do the work ? If an Australian fleet couldn’t
possibly lend a hand to the British navy when
wanted it is quite plain that for the same reason—
whatever the same reason may be —a Japanese
fleet couldn’t either; The miserably unpatriotic
importers’ rag has grown ■ so used to saying that
Australia can’t do things that it at last gets
to a point at which it alleges that the Australian
navy wouldn’t fight, even if we had a navy—
which is about the last possibility in the
way of insult. If the importers’ organ simply
said that it objected to paying for defences of our
own, the situation would be plain and easy ; but
when it says wildly that Australia can’t pay for
deferice as much per head as the Englishman does,
and that the Australian fleet, even if we had one,
either couldn’t or wouldn’t face the enemy, but
would skulk uselessly in the rear, the paper’s
habit of throwing mud and insult at its own
country becomes altogether too disreputable.
A Shindykit.
A mysterious statement appeared in the papers
last week to the effect that an Anglo-German
syndicate had made an offer to the S. A. Govern-
ment for the Northern Territory, and that the
S. A. Government, instead of throwing the syndi-
cate down the stairs, had the matter “under
consideration.” The offers of the syndicate are
said to be a good deal better as regards the interests
of S.A. than those of the Australian Govern-
ment. It is willing to take over the Territory’s
debt just the same as the Australian Government
proposes to do—the debt looks big, but it is only
about 2d. per acre after all. It is willing to com-
plete the transcontinental railway, just the same
as the Australian Government proposes to do.
And it baits its trap with two inducements.
First, S.A. is still to preserve its local sovereignty
over the Territory. It is to be a sort of suzerain,
with the syndicate for its deputy. If the
Territory is handed over to the Commonwealth,
S.A. becomes a comparatively small State, and
all the tax revenue of the Territory goes from it.
If the Territory is handed over to the Anglo-
German syndicate it wdll still be governed from
Adelaide, at least in name; and Adelaide will
still collect certain taxes therein, and it will
still retain the empty honor of being the capital
of the second biggest State in the Common-
wealth, and as the Territory fills up with people,
these people will add to S.A.’s representation
in the Australian Parliament, and swell its influ-
ence and importance. That is one inducement
which the syndicate can offer to S.A. to turn dog,
for its own profit, on the interests of Australia.
And there is another bait in the syndicate’s trap,
for it offers its hard and fast pledge to finish the
Adelaide-Port Darwin railway.- When S.A.
offered the Territory to the Australian Parlia-
ment it stipulated, as an essential condition, that
Australia should take over and finish this uncom-
pleted transcontinental railway. Straightway,
the people who want to bring everything to Mel-
bourne and Sydney and Brisbane commenced to
agitate for the breakage of this condition. They
planned a line which would start at Melbourne,
go through Victoria, through Central N.S.W.,
connecting with Sydney, through Central Queens-
land, connecting with Brisbane and other ports,
and then take a bend into the Territory and finish
at Port Darwin. The idea is, of course, that all the
trade of the Territory with the southern states is to
be divided up among Brisbane, Sydney and Mel-
bourne, while Adelaide is left out and its unfin-
ished transcontinental line becomes a bad debt.
And it is thought in some quarters that the votes
of three States against one may carry the new
proposal. The trouble is that - even if the new
proposal is carried it will amount to nothing un-
less the S.A. State Legislature assents to this
variation of the original arrangement. And if an
oily syndicate is at S.A.’s gates with money, or
alleged money, in both hands, and the offer of the
long-desired transcontinental railway in its mouth,
there will be Serious temptation to lend a large
receptive ear to the syndicate. Of course the
Commonwealth could explain that there are ways
whereby it is able to squash this or any similar
syndicate. But that wouldn’t alter the fact that
if the present Northern Territory agreement isn’t
accepted the saving of the Lost Province will
again be indefinitely hung up. If Australia
doesn’t take over the Territory on the only terms
on which it seems likely to be obtainable affairs
will be back at the old stage of deadlock, with the
syndicate as an extra complication, and with the
possibility on hand that the British Government
might one day resume the Territory and make its
own deal-with the syndicate.
The Jackie Who Has Departed.
The United States fleet departs with all manner
of good wishes, and its clean, decent, well-
educated, sober, and well-behaved Jackie departs
also, leaving the best of kind feelings behind him.
But though it is a pleasing thing to know that
there is a powerful and friendly white man with a
fleet in the Pacific, and that that sea isn’t patrolled
quite exclusively by the ships of Shem, still there
is nothing in the recent visit to alter in the
slightest Australia’s need to provide for its own
defence. Rather the' visit suggests that we should
hurry up with that defence. If Australia gets
into serious trouble with its Brown Brother,
there may be one chance in ten that the United
States will be our ally—and again there may
be no chance at all. There is no earthly
reason why Uncle Sam should spend his
costly ironmongery and his shining cartwheel
dollar in our defence unless he feels that way, and
he might not feel that way, especially as feeling
that way would be a most expensive process. And
on the other hand the fact that Uncle Sam will
one day fire his guns at us —or at least at our
relatives—seems fairly certain. All the clatter
about kinship—all the reunions and ententes on
earth—are not likely to shift that fact one inch.
The United States is steadily filling up. When
a country fills up its surplus jieople begin to leave
it. If it is a small weak country its emigrants go
under a foreign flag and become foreign subjects.
If it is.a big, strong country it generally takes
possession of some new territory so that its
people may have room to expand and still
not go under a foreign flag and become
foreign subjects. Sometimes, if the emigrants
slop over into an adjacent territory they
take the matter in their own hands and start the
revolution and annexation themselves. In the
ordinary coiirse of events, Mexico and Canada
are two places for which is preparing the
fate of the country of small extent or small popu-
lation that is crowded up against a huge, strong,
populous neighbor. Their position is exactly
the same as that of Wales alongside England, of
Israel alongside Assyria, of Lydia alongside Bersia,
of the Boer republics crowded Up against British
territory-—in fact, of almost any little country
alongside almost any big one. The United States
citizen is an absorbent person. He settled in
California just as the Briton did in the Transvaal,
and California ceased to be Mexican and became
Yankee. He settled in Texas, and the same thing
happened. He settled in Arizona, and it happened
again. He settled in the North-West, which was
then vaguely supposed to be British territory, and
it became part of the Big Republic in the usual
course. He settled in Hawaii, and the Kanaka
dynasty founded by Kamehameha I. passed away
like the tenth part of a dream. And now he is
settling extensively both in Mexico and Canada.
The Yankee apparently makes no deliberate
schemes of conquest, but he settles, and then
things happen. And just because of his tendency
to settle and then happen, and of the fact that if
he keeps on happening there is bound to be
stupendous trouble between him and the British
Empire some day, and if we remain in the Empire
we will be in that trouble, which will be bad, and
if we get out of the Empire we must argue poincs
with Asia single-handed, which may easily be
worse—because of all these things there is nothing
in the recent visit of 16 grey-painted ironclads
and 12,000 most pleasant and gentlemanly Jackies
that makes it a whit less necessary than it was
before for Australia to look earnestly to its own
defence. It is useless wasting forecasts on the
future, but this much is known : (1) that Britain,
because it is almost wholly dependent on foreign
imports for its food, must needs keep a large part
of its naval force around its own shores ; (2) that
some possible distant enemies, against whom
it could only dispatch a section of its fleet,
are the United States, Japan, and China;
(3) that the famous tv/o-Power standard of naval
efficiency is only maintained on paper by not
reckoning the United States among possible
enemies; (4) that no one knows what may
happen ; and (5) that it is a wise and safe thing to
be prepared in case it should happen, because
it generally does.
The Feasting of the Few.
“ 0.K.,” after wrestling with Melbourne Fleet
week to the bitter end, reports :
Fleet week in Melbourne was largely a time of neglected
“hospitalities,” as far as the American guests of the
rival Governments were concerned : a time of hoggish
overfeeding by many Australian guests to whom the
festivities of officialdom presented a daily round of free
refreshments, and a time to be long remembered by the
taxpayer. Considering all that is said and written about
the pettiness and corruption of politicians in America, it
w'as rather amazing to find the Fleet visitors unacquainted
With' even the idea of the Australian deadhead system of
entertainment, conducted by Governments for the
“ function ’’-going class. Publicly the officers of the
Fleet expressed hearty thanks for the “ hospitality ”
offered to them, which, whether the visitors
accepted it or not, was partaken of with
tremendous enthusiasm by the select crowd of
functionists who chased it around. Privately the United
States naval men expressed considerable scorn and dis-
gust at the obvious selfishness of the official management
in this week of gluttony and guzzle. For the public at
large there was little enough to see, except the crowds
they made themselves, and the marching of tired soldiers
and sailors who received no pay, nor—in some hundreds
of cases—any food for their trouble. For the persistent
functionists there were “ receptions,” trips, concerts, and ’
displays at all times and sundry places, and wheresoever
a few of these privileged pleasure-seekers gathered to-
gether the refreshment caterer had been commissioned by
one or other Government to victual the deadheads on a
liberal scale. For them it was a crowded week of in-
glorious gobble.
Yet they could show no justification for their consump-
tion of public funds beyond the, occasional presence of a
few unwilling American officers at the festive board—
most of the other invited ones having marked their un-
willingness by stopping away. From the very outset of
the great deadhead carnival it was known that the
Yanks asked for nothing more than permission to gang
their ain gait. The hospitality, so called, which the
Governments wanted to thrust upon them, was just
what the “ nation’s guests ” wished to avoid. And when
the true character of this Fleet week programme hecame
apparent, the officers, ocher than poor Admiral Sperry,
practically snubbed officialdom with a great snub. The
fact that the Vic. Government picnic steamer, Lady
Loch, freighted.with “members of Parliament and their
wives and daughters,” steamed off to the Admiral’s flag-
ship one morning, only to be sent back with the news
that the flagship wasn’t taking any official visitors just
then, should have discouraged, the would-be intruders
from repeating the trip next day. This alleged blunder
in the arrangements looked very like a broad hint. But
the members and their families wouldn’t miss a second
marine outing by taking a hint. The invitation they had
so openly sought was given to them in due course.
As for the minor officers and plain seamen of the Fleet,
who felt themselves under no social obligation to keep
the army of local deadheads in countenance, they were
almost unanimous in putting “hospitality” to shame.
They treated free tickets to the theatres with contumely.
On the Hill at Flemington at the Wednesday race meeting
some of the free and enlightened guests were told they
could get refreshments gratis at certain bars appointed
for the purpose, whereupon they went elsewhere and paid
for their drinks. There was free fruit for the sailors at
certain stalls, and when this unlooked-for bounty had
been impressed upon them they went to the fruit kiosk,
loaded themselves with bananas and things, and distri-
buted their gifts among any children they could find.
Again, on the Thursday night, a feed was spread
at the Exhibition Building for 2300 sailors from the war-
ships. All the men on leave ashore had been notified
of this precious banquet, but only one of them came
to look at it. A strong force of waiters led this unique
guest to a seat and induced him to accept the Govern-
ment’s hospitality after he had been questioned re the
absence of his 2290 comrades. It is an ill wind, however,
that blows nobody any food when dead-headism \senfSte.
Three or four thousand Australian guests were viewing a
fire brigade display in the arena outside the building, so
the banquet that the American sailors had rejected was
eventually served as supper for as many of these other
ticket-holders as hadn’t already surfeited themselves with
lighter fare.
Food, food everywhere, and liquor free to drink made
Fleet week a memorable time for a fractional portion of
the multitude that swarmed in Melbourne. They called
the waiter, and the People will be left to pay the score—
the people who got so very little for their money. Aus-
tralasia has completed its welcoming of the White
Armada. The celebrations were admirable in their expres-
sion of national sentiment. But, when one looks back at
a series of hospitalities offered at the public expense to
people who didn’t want them, the retrospect is not
pleasing. The 16 warships in the background are impress-
ive. Likewise the dense crowds of easily-amused popu-
lace in the middle distance. The foreground is mostly
filled by the little mob of professional functionists flock-
ing hither and thither in pursuit of refreshments provided
by the Governments.
♦
Land Resumption in N. S. Wales.
After a stiff fight, the Wage Government carried
the necessary motion through the N.S.W. Assem-
bly authorising the purchase of 100,000 acres of
the Peel River estate, which will be the biggest
thing in land resumptions yet undertaken by the
Ma State. There were three objections—(l) The
Peel River Cos. says it is prepared to do its own
subdivision, wherefore Fitzpatrick and some
others wanted to know why the State should lock
up £500,000 or thereabouts ; (2) the price hasn’t
been fixed yet, and the bulk of the Labor mem-
bers object to buying until they know what the
State (and therefore the settlers) will have to
give; and (3) Bf.eby and one or two more object
to the transaction until a lund-tax arrives. The
first objection was the two ends and the
middle of folly. The Peel River Cos. has,
as a matter of fact, sold some land
hitherto; and in nearly every case the
purchasers have been non-resident land-specu-
lators and such like. Tamworth business
'men and others who had already grabbed con-
siderable areas used the co.’s subdivision sales to
grab more ; also there is a dark suspicion in the
district that a few' of the sales haven’t been as
genuine as they might be. The gentle art of
dummying isn’t as dead as J. Caesar, and Tam-
worth district knows as much of the art as most.
So long as subdivision is carried out by the big
landlord, and especially the big landlord who is
still to hold on to a big slice of the estate, the
dummying of the eyes of the country is highly
probable ; for any tame boundary-rider or
jackeroo can bid £6 for land worth only £3
when he knows he hasn’t got to pay the money.
As for the other objections, there is something in
them, but not enough to stop the resumption.
It does seem like bad business to agree to buy
before one knows what the price is to be. But
really it is only Arbitration over again ; and the
Labor party is quite prepared to recommend men
to go to the Arbitration Court and agree to be
bound by terms which haven’t yet been fixed.
The parallel is all the more complete because the
two Courts are practically identical ; each consists
of two assessors, one nominated by each side, with
a Judge as President. There no doubt is a danger
that the price will be fixed high. Yet there is no
need to suppose that the Judge will keep his eye
solely on the dispossessed landlord ; he may spare
half an eye anyhow for the settlers—for the
men and tiie families who will be condemned to
years of hardship if he sets a sentimental price
upon the land to be resumed. Labor-member
Beeby put his long, reliable finger on the
weakest point. So long as the State is in the
market as a buyer, so long will land prices be
forced up to a fictitious level unless there is a
heavy progressive land-tax to steady them. Pur-
chase by the State even then will tend to force
values up—any large buying will do that—but the
competition among big land-owners to get
out will be a set-off. And, besides, there
won’t be the same need for State repurchase ; the
land-hungry will find it possible in many cases to
be satisfied by direct dealing .with the bloated
gentleman whom the tax has induced to quit.
The only question is whether land-settlement
can or ought to be hung up while a progressive
land-tax is being driven through. The two
things ought to come together; but the people
who want land can’t wait indefinitely—they have
gone on waiting for years already, some of them,
and the rent-lord has left them worse off than they
started ; while others have worn out themselves
and their resources in rushing from one land
ballot to the other. State resumption without a
heavy progressive land-tax is a poor second best
to the two things together, or even to the progres-
sive land-tax alone ; but it is better than nothing.
♦
Melbourne’s Fleet Holiday.
The crowds that swarmed into Melbourne on
that celebrated Monday to view the Fleet
parade mostly had an even better view of
the utter inadequacy’ of the city’s trans-
port arrangements. Even in the early morn-
ing, long before the rush to the city started,
the tramway service became a joke and a scoff ;
but those who meant to use the trams could, at a
pinch, walk the distance, and mostly did so,
reviling the shiftless company the while. With
the railways it was different. Outer suburbanites
had to use them or nothing. They swarmed into
town packed like sardines, stayed there till they
had seen the torchlight procession and the illumina-
tions at night, and then made for the station.
Now, swift, easily-filled and easily-handled electric
cars are the only things capable of coping with a
continuous rush of passengers, and Melbourne’s
suburbs are still served by steam. Moreover,
Tait has now got every suburban line but one
running into the station at Flinders-street, and
the twelve platforms at the one station are reached
through two narrow entrances only ; and even ut
“Never!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the farewell banquet to Lord Northcote at Sydney
Parliament House, referring to the recent visit of the
American Fleet, Mr. Wade said that whilst we admired
and desired to imitate the people of the American States,
we were still content to remain partners under the Im-
perial flag. (Loud and prolonged cheers.) He had
gathered from outside sources that the Fleet’s visit was
the beginning for Australia of a desire to cast off the
Imperial yoke. (Cries of “ Never,”) — Daily paper.
In the days of Alexander,
He who sighed for more and greater
Worlds to conquer, men would pander
To the creature as Creator.
Did one ask in tones of wonder
If that Empire e’er could sever.
Or its bonds be rent asunder,
Loudly came the answer : “ NEVER ! ”
Where is (kindly tell me, thou)
Alexander’s Empire now?
What of Cesar’s exaltation ;
Hath the story not been written ?
He was master of creation,
Even rude barbaric Britain ?
By its strength a nation’s tested,
By its strenuous endeavor,
Not by portly and white-vested
Gouty folks who bellow : “ NEVER !”
Once to Cassar all would bow ;
Where is Caesar’s Empire now ?
Be republican or royal;
Choose yourself your own opinions,
Be (if fat) intensely loyal.
Boasting of the King’s dominions
When you speak at jubilations !
But, my friend, remember ever
In the history of nations
There is no such time as “ NEVER.”
Empires come and Empires go ;
’Twas and always will be so !
n.s.w.
W. T. GOODGE.


033111333
A\n ail
EAR DISEASES
Why Remain
DEAF?j
Having been naturally cured
from deafness and most dis-
tressing head noises without I
any medicine or electricity, |
wiil send to all unfortunate
sufferers FREE, information
how to cure themselves at
their own homes with pure "
natural aural kinetics, on mentioning this paper.
Address EAROSCOPE,” 90 Pitt St. Sydney.
<?•
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are Headquarters for above, and represent
the Greatest Makers of the World. We have
an Extensive Stock to select from.
NEW FILM SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
Write or call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane^
“These,” said -Fisheries Director Dan-
nevig lately, holding up a jar of fish in spirits,
“are whitebait. I caught them off St. Kilda.
At certain times of the year the bay is full of
them. Most of them go away again; then you
bring them back to Melbourne in large quantities
—in tins.” It is a solemn fact, and it applies to
a good deal besides whitebait.
The Governor, and the Minister for Edu-
cation, and the Under-Secretary, and a few other
people are firing enthusiastic compliments at the
eight or ten thousand youngsters who made the
Fieet-week display on the Sydney Cricket
Ground —a display reckoned by many of the
Fleet officers to be the finest show they saw in
N. S. Wales. Quite likely the youngsters, as well
as the people who trained them to such perfec-
tion, relish the compliments; but after the long
and weary day of the show, they would have
relished still more a lift from the ground to their
own suburb. It seems an almost incredible bit of
meanness, yet it is a fact that hundreds of the
youngsters —some of them mites of six—after a
hard and long day of drilling and flag-flapping,
had to march along the State tram lines from the
Cricket Ground to the railway station ; and some
of them further than that.
Anguish long-suppressed is bursting forth
and moaning' publicly in certain quarters in regard
to the invitation's to the last Federal Government
House ball. The young gentleman who unloads
the Governor-General’s cards upon local citizens
is alleged to have got hold of a trade directory,
and therefrom compiled his list. Also other acid
things are said about him. It must be owned
that there is no perceptible difference in either
manner or appearance between the wives and
other female appurtenances of our haughtiest, and
those of the trader whose minions leave the tea
and coffee at the door o’ mornings. So in one
respect the defendant has a fair defence.
But in another he stands convicted of
error. It is a strange thing that while, for some
obscure reason, doctors and the milingtary are
bidden to Federal Government House in droves
and shoals, civil servants and practising bar-
risters hardly ever are. Wherefore is the briefless
young celibate wig-wearer taken in and fed, and
the Crown Prosecutor with olive-branches, left?
Why pour champagne into a medico not suffi-
ciently adult to tell the difference between it and
ginger-pop, and spurn the embryo Judge whom
constant practice has also made a wine judge ?
The procedure is senseless. There are likewise
complainings anent the State Government House
dinner invitations. On what basis these are
issued no man or woman knoweth. However,
here the light laugh is substituted for the deep-
voiced cuss. The ones that aren’t asked to feed
in vice-regal company have the compensating joy
of reflecting how dashed uncomfortable the
majority of the ones that are asked must feel in
the unaccustomed society of waiters and such-like
people who habitually wear stiff collars.
The Fleet has gone, but it has left behind
a feeling of kinship and admiration that will not
easily rub off. And the spirit of concord which
flowed so freely during the visit was largely
assisted by a moderate flow of that other benign
spirit—D.C.L. Whisky. The inspiring influence
of D.C.L. is always towards peace, fraternity, and
Wise Emulation.*
these two trifling entrances there is no separation
of those going in from those coming out. Conse-
quently, when the rush began, Tait’s fearfully
long trains (he has apparently learned nothing by
the Sunshine disaster) couldn’t be filled and got
away quickly enough ; and, as the crowds threat-
ened to push those on the platforms out on to the
rails, the wicket gates were shut. Then it was
pandemonium. The wonder was, not that 30 or
40 were injured, but thatahundred or two weren’t
killed. The packed crowd, not knowing of the
closed gates, pressed steadily closer, closer; the
thousands arriving behind—soo,ooo passengers
used the suburban lines that day—added each his
weight, little in itself, terrible in the mass.
Once in that surging throng, some of those atoms
presently became hysterical and maniacal, but
there was no getting out. One man was
making home from work to a sick wife; he
wanted to reach the Collingwood station higher
up, but once in he had to go on. It took him
two hours to traverse one block—and he was
deadly ill when he got through. White-faced,
wide-eyed women and girls fainted by the dozen ;
shrieking, weeping children were dragged from the
death that waited them once they got out of sight.
Dragged up, pushed, bundled anyhow, they were
passed on, shoulder high, through windows at the
back or over the station rails in front to space and
safety. Here and there the few constables worked
in and grabbed some collapsed victim and belted
a way for the rescuing litter. When it was all
o ver, and the last train had got the last passenger,
and the last broken limb had been set in the hos-
pital, and the last lost child had been put in a
shake-down for the night, the bruised and wearied
porters and constables cleaned up the battle
ground. Of valuables there were few, but of
gloves, handkerchiefs, hats, caps, shawls, pieces
of lace, silk and cloth, even children’s and
women’s shoes, there were barrow-loads. Of
course, the Railway Department disclaims all re-
sponsibility ; yet it was warned long ago that its
ramps and platforms were inadequate to accom-
modate a crowd.
The Profits of Sosh.
Ever since the first community decided that its
health would be improved by the appointment of
a policeman, the influential bushranger of the day
has been loud in deploring State interference with
Private Enterprise and the utter disregard of
Vested Interests. In N.S.W. to-day the apologist
for the lineal descendant of the ancient bushranger
is the Government that is presided over by
Premier Wade and Treasurer Waddell, and that
stern, still, strong statesman, “Dismal Jimmy”
Hogue. This aggregation of political stars
is very much worried about the encroachments of
the Socialists, and speaks almost as strongly as
did the first great Private Enterpriser in the days
when the Socialist party sought to minimise the
profession of head-hunting. Now comes the
statement, from Auditor-General Vernon, that
Socialism as practised in New South Wales is an
excellent and altruistic proceeding, and that, so
far from the State undertakings being confis-
catory, they really constitute the most successful
branch of the Government. In fact it is mostly
by the appropriation of the profits of Socialism to
the enhancing of their own pomp and glory that
the Anti-Socialistic Government keeps its job and
its reputation. According to the Auditor-General
the State undertakings, principal among which
are, of course, the railways and tramways, showed
a profit during the past seven years of no less than
£1,690,044. In commenting on the practice of
collaring the profits of these undertakings to
manufacture surpluses which are supposed to arise
from the superhuman genius of Wade and
Waddell and Dismal Jimmy Hogue, Mr. Vernon
says : —
It appears to me it would have shown a wise fore-
thought had arrangements been made to obtain the
authority of an Act of Parliament, which would have
enabled the Government to wipe out at once the balance
of the deficiency account, which has now stained the
record of our finances for over 20 years. As it is
shown, the surplus at June 30, 1908, amounted to
£1,676,924 2s. 3d., and the balance outstanding of de-
ficiency bills at the same date being only £1,214,516 0s. 6d.,
the full liquidation of the deficiency might have been
arranged for, leaving' still a credit of £462,408 Is. 9d. as a
true surplus on the Consolidated Bevenue Fund, after all
deficiency debts were paid.
This presents a rather curious situation: (1) It
appears that the surpluses of the Anti-Socialistic
Government were largely made out of Socialistic
undertakings; (2) it seems that the Anti-Socialistic
Government, in its anxiety to work up a great
financial reputation by waving its Social-
istic surplus in the air, has left £1,214,516
of old deficit—the deficit of previous Anti-
Socialistic Governments—still standing, be-
cause if this liability had been honestly paid
off out of the Socialistic surplus the Anti-Social-
istic Government couldn’t have made such a show
with its Socialistic surplus, and wouldn’t have had
it to sit upon while it denounced Socialism. That
is the gist of the Auditor-General’s statement,
and it is an honest statement, though disagreeable.
A Squatter and a Railway,
“Frank R.” writes :—
There was a meeting, chiefly of landowners, at Lismore
(Vic.), a few days ago, to agitate for the usual railway.
Lismore is situated right in the heart of the Western
plains, and is surrounded and practically smothered by
squatters. The Currie family alone holds five huge sheep-
stations all around the unfortunate village, and conse-
quently to-day Lismore consists of an old pub, a store and
a church. It hasn’t even a bakery or a butchery. But
the meeting came to the conclusion that a railway would
alter all that. So the meeting asked for a railway in loud,
aggressive tones, and Mr. H. A. Currie, of Gala station,
said that they ought to get it. Also, continued Mr.
Currie (of Gala), it was scandalous to talk of loading
the land, as the railway would pay from the start. The
present writer knows the district thoroughly ; and, for
once in a way, he has much pleasure in partially agreeing
with Mr. Currie (of Gala). The land is so uniformly good
for wheat-growing, the rainfall so certain, and the scrub
so conspicuous by its absence, that freight in abundance
would he ready as soon as the rails were laid, provided
population was allowed to settle on the land. But Mr.
Currie (of Gala) quite missed the point. A few months
ago the writer asked three good men, at Lake Bolac,
what would be the effect upon the Nerrin Nerrin estate,
68,000 acres, if the proposed Willaura-Linton railway,
across the plains, were made. This railway is surveyed
right through Nerrin Nerrin. And the unanimous
opinion was that it would add £2 per acre, or £137,000, to
the value of the estate. The railway would run for 13
miles through the Nerrin Nerrin property and allowing
£4000 per mile (an over-estimate) for its construction, it
would pay the estate to build its share of the line and make
it a present to the Government. Then it would have still
£80,000 to the good. This was the sort of thing that struck
Bent, who motored up to look at thedistrict, and came back
roaring that there would be no line unless the estates that
benefited were loaded to pay for it. Exactly the same
thing applies to the land at Lismore. It is impossible for
any line to get in or out of Lismore, or within miles of it,
without going through a Currie station. A line through
or near Lismore would mean,at/the very lowest estimate,
a present of £200,000 to the Currie family. And con-
sidering that the Curries are, next to the Manifolds, the
wealthiest squatters of Western Victoria, such a present is
unthinkable. No, the time has gone by for such foolishness,
and the sooner Mr. H. A. Currie (of Gala), and all the
other Curries, to say nothing of the Manifolds, Blacks,
MaCARTHURS, MACKINNONS, BUSSELLS, JAMIESONS, SlIAWS,
Cummings, and the other big landowners of the district,
find it out, the better for everybody.
♦ —
An Australian Navy in Relation to a White
Australia.
Perth, Tuesday.—A report from Broome states that a
fleet of Javanese boats is engaged in b&che-de-mer fishing
on Imperieuse Shoal, about 200 miles west of Broome, in
the vicinity of the group of islands annexed by Great
Britain some years ago .—Daily paper.
Items like the above are regular features
nowadays of the news columns of all the Westra-
lian papers. Organised fleets, manned by colored
men, poach beche-de-mer without let or hindrance
in regions that it is a polite fiction amongst local
Empire Leaguers to regard as “efficiently pro-
tected by the might of the British navy.”
Javanese, Malays, Chinese and Japs are the
greatest offenders. All of these land with im-
punity along our great unpoliced northern coast-
line, load their shell, and (for the most part)
sail away again. But all on board don’t always
sail away. If it were a certainty that they did,
Australia could endure even the stealing of a
valuable marine product with more or less of
philosophic calm. The tragedy is that in a big
percentage of cases the pearling fleets carry Aus-
tralia-wards the Japs and Chows to whom Aus-
tralia appeals as a land flowing with opium, fair
women and easy money. Despite the stringent
administration by the Australian Government of
Immigration Restriction Acts in the more densely-
populated centres, there is a deep-rooted sus-
picion that the tally of yellow men increases
throughout the Commonwealth. There is no doubt
the leakage occurs in the North, and by the agency
of the alien-manned pearling boats that trespass
there unchecked. It is futile for Australians to ex-
pect that the British naval authorities will, or can,
look at this question from an Australian viewpoint.
Here and there it is possible to find a belated
British naval officer who combines personal know-
ledge of Asiatics with a high order of intelligence,
and, in consequence, sympathises with Australia’s
passionate aspiration to “keep white.” But he
is a rare phenomenon. In their hearts the
immense majority of Britons in both services are
content to regard Japan as an ally and China as a
potential one, while Australia is, in their eyes, a
mere self-defenceless dependency which pays
the United Kingdom for looking after ,it
a subsidy that about keeps the stokers
of the Pacific squadron in rum. The British
officer is not, if he knows it, going to spend an
unpleasant time trapesing about the outposts’of
Australia, harassing people for whom, despite
their color, he cherishes a good deal of respect, on
behalf of a country the unpatriotic ways of whose
inhabitants provoke his puzzled contempt. When
he has visited Port Phillip for the Cup, Port Jack-
son during the Spring Meeting, Hobart in the
summer season, and so on, he feels that he has
satisfactorily answered the call of duty. The pos-
sible creation of an Anglo-Jap “incident” by the
interception of a beche-de-mer fleet engaged land-
ing Japs on or near the north coast of Australia
is not the sort of achievement he hankers
to put to his credit. And Australians, in
the circumstances, haven’t any right to be
hurt or surprised thereat. Till the Commonwealth
gets its own navy, which will patrol its own
coasts with a full-blooded desire and determina-
tion to see that Australian laws are respected,
there is no likelihood of the present order of
things in the North changing. Unless the Com-
monwealth is prepared to witness the “peaceful
penetration ” during the coming years of a horde
of colored men who will give its children the same
race problem to cope with that America has to
face to-day, it will have to get a hurried move on
with a fleet-building scheme. A White Aus-
tralia is Australia’s own policy, and it becomes
daily more apparent that the ships of no nation
but Australia can be expected, in the last resort,
to uphold it—and least of all the ships of a nation
whose only pledged ally is yellow.
. ♦
A small meeting was held in Sydney, last Mon-
day, to found anew Freetrade League. There was
just one slab of morning glory in the proceedings,
and it appeared in the speech of Lonsdale,
M.L.A. :
Mr. Lonsdale made a comparison between four years
of Mr. Reid’s light tariff regime and four years of Mr.
Lyne’s Federal tariff. The hands in the factories of
Sydney increased during Mr. Reid’s four years by 8000,
and during Mr. Lyne’s four years by 12,000, but the popu-
lation during Mr. Reid’s term increased by only 4 per
cent., while during Mr. Lyne’s term it increased by 6£
per cent., so that if they calculated the increase of hands
with the increase of population, and compared it on that
basis, they found that the increase during the four years
of heavy tariff was smaller than during the four years of
light tariff.
And by that amazing brand of logic Lonsdale
would doubtless maintain that if, under Freetrade,
population diminished by 10 per cent, and there
were 4000 less persons employed in the factories
of the State, while under Protection population
increased 20 per cent, and there were 6000 more
people employed in factories, therefore Freetrade
was the better policy. Lonsdale’s plea is that,
though under Reid’s policy the number of em-
ployees increased very slowly, still Reid’s policy
drove so many persons out of the State that, in
proportion to the number of folk who remained in
the State, the increase of employees was larger
than it looked. On the other hand, under Lyne’s
policy the number of employees increased very
fast, but then Lyne’s policy attracted so many
people to the State that in proportion to the
number of folk in the State the increase of em-
ployees wasn’t so large as it looked. The cause
that gets down to arguments like that is pretty
tired.
■ ♦
“Onlooker’s” report
One of the quaintest shows seen in this city in years was
the School of Arts meeting that was held (7/9/’08) “ for
the purpose of resuscitating Freetrade.” There were 27
people in the gloomy little hall, and more than half of
them appeared to be rabid Protectionists. One Samp-
son was in the chair, and he struck the
note which subsequently dominated the proceedings
by protesting passionately that Freetrade was not really
dead, despite the look of things. He “proved it”
somewhat vaguely by asserting that Pulsford, “who
was for years secretary of the Freetrade League,
ought to know something about whether Freetrade was
dead or not.” But when a carper in the audience
clamored to be informed why Pulsford, if he thought
there was a hope of saving Freetrader life, didn’t come
along and help at the resuscitation ceremony, the
speaker had no explanation to offer.
Lonsdale, M.L.A., rose, to use the words of the S. M.
Herald, “ amid a good deal of noise.” That was putting
it mildly. He had a reception that would have gratified
a comic knockabout troupe. The people present appeared
to regard Lonsdale as a humorist of a high order. But
they calmed down under the stifling flood of oft-used
arguments he poured over them, and grew depressed and
finally restive. The chairman tried to stop him. In vain.
Time passed, and in desperation the chairman ham-
mered madly on the table and implored Lonsdale to
desist or else say something they hadn’t all been listening
to since early childhood. Then an impressive thing oc-
curred. A flush of rage stained Lonsdale’s ordinarily
placid dial. He reached for his hat. “ A nice way to
treat me !” he muttered, frenziedly. “ Very nice goings
on, I’m sure ! I shan’t stay another minute.” But at
this stage the chairman broke up. Lonsdale was their
most prominent speaker. From that moment onwards he
was suffered to orate unchecked until his supply of verbi-
age ran out.
Stace Lloyd, “ organiser for the Liberal and Reform
party,” opined that “if a referendum were taken through-
out the Commonwealth every woman would vote for
Freetrade.” It was interestingly indicative of the thin
barrier that separates extreme optimism from lunacy. If
“ every woman ” and a few men are for Freetrade, then
the shoddy majority in the Australian Parliament must be
something tremendous.
Then came M. A. Leefson. He frankly treated this or
any other effort to resuscitate Freetrade as hopeless ;
but, “as he did not wish to spoil sport,” he was
willing to say a word or two. His sayings took the
form of spirited denunciations of G. Reid, Bill Wilks,
Willy Kelly, and all the others who got into Parliament
originally as Freetraders and have been sneaking after
Protection ever since. This pleased the audience
mightily. It is an axiom in economic circles, these days,
that if you want to gratify a Freetrader the game is to
verbally spring upon, kick and otherwise maltreat G. H.
Reid and his Parliamentary following.
I left the meeting what time part of it was trying to per-
suade itself that Freetrade retained the breath of life,
while the remainder jeered merrily, made irrelevant and
ribald remarks, and generally behaved as though they
were in attendance at a Donegal wake.
♦
“H.S.H.”: Herewith the summing up in the
capital site argument of one who was born 70
years ago close to Canberra, who passed all his
days till early manhood there, and who from then
onwards till he was 30 years of age lived in
Southern Monaro. In the winter months there is
very little difference in the temperature of Goul-
burn, Yass, Canberra, and Dalgety. Such differ-
ence as exists is in favor of Canberra and Dajgety,
which are both sheltered from the cold south-
westerly wind by mountains. Goulburn and
Yass lack this advantage, for they receive the
full force of the winter winds along the flat plains
to the west. Thecountry around Canberra, with
the exception of a few isolated flats, is a poor,
porous granite soil, suitable only for stock-raising,
which fact the many farmers of years ago proved.
An adequate water supply to Canberra is impos-
sible, owing to the town’s height above the Mur-
rurnbidgee and Cotter Rivers. The Murrumbidgee
water is unfit for use, and the supply from the
Cotter insufficient. At the point where it
would have to be tapped it is a miserably
small stream, with practically no catchment
area above it. Dalgety has many advantages
no other site possesses, as N.S.W. Commis-
sioner Oliver pointed out. Its land is rich basaltic
soil, and will produce in abundance. It has the
only sufficient water supply in the State, with an
unpolluted catchment area. It has, moreover,
what no other site can boast—a clear get-away for
its sewage by means of the river, which traverses a
gorge from just below Dalgety to the sea, making
sanitary conditions assured. In the old days the
people of Monaro were the most solvent and well-
to-do of the State—those conditions remain.
The health and physique of the Monaro folk, to
whom consumption or other serious form of sick-
ness is seldom known, strikes me as a further
advertisement of the site’s excellence.
♦
The Sydney police the other day brought an
action against a carcase butcher for cruelty to
animals. On a recent Saturday morning a con-
stable visited the Flemington stockyards and
found some injured and dying sheep just
fired out of a stock train, lying in the
mud, without food or water. On Monday
he again visited the place, and the sheep were
still there, most of them dead. Soon after the
carcase butcher arrived to claim the sheep. It was
shown that the unfortunate animals had spent
about 30 hours in the stock train before being
thrown out, so those that were still alive when
the butcher arrived had been over three days
without food or water. The case against the car-
case person broke down on the point that he was
not responsible for the sheep until he called for
them on the Monday, nor could the Court
help the police in fixing the responsibility
on anyone. Yet it was shown that the
horror was a common one. Perhaps the quickest
way to find out who is responsible in such cases
would be for some one to go to Flemington and
find a mob that includes some injured and
neglected sheep, and steal 24 sound ones. If the
sheep belong to nobody, he will hear nothing
further about the matter. If they belong to
somebody, that person will probably reveal him-
self in his anger, and then the Law can give him
three months for his brutality.
+
By “ Red Tape Junior ” :—
Few litigants have had worse luck than N.S.W. Premier
W ADEstruck in his capacity as Attorney-General when Chief
Justice Griffith dismissed with Costs the appeal of the
State in the MoHarg case. It was a climax, so to speak.
This McHarg retired from the N.S.W. Public Service
after 17 .years’ employment. He was granted a pension,
based on only 15 years’ service, and applied for the
rest of the pension. Whereupon the “ Crown’’—which
is Wade as Attorney-General—thought it discovered that
McHarg was not entitled to any pension at all, on the
ground that he had been only a temporary officer. This
was despite the fact that, through the whole of his ser-
vice, the Government had forcibly docked him 4
per cent, of his salary as superannuation money
on the plea that he was a permanent officer.
McHarg took Wade to law, and the District Court
Judge made some caustic remarks and upheld
McHarg. The Full Court, on appeal, flung a few more
remarks at Wade, including the Costs of the appeal. The
High Court has now made some additional observations,
and piles more Costs on Wade. Wade’s office defends its
action in taking McHarg through all the Courts on the
ground that there is a large number of old public ser-
vants whose cases hinge on the appeal. If so, these
old servants can thank their stars that the “Crown”
took McHarg as an example. The fact that the
example paid his 4 per cent, to the Superannuation
Fund blew Wade right out, while the attempt to prove
that an officer with 17 years’ service was only a “ tempo-
rary ” or casual hand was doomed to bring ridicule on
the blessed “ Crown.” This, following on the appeal in
Heffernan’s case, in which Wade also met with disaster
over a pension, is calculated to make N.S.W. think it
wants a new “ Crown.”
Quite Dead—and Buried.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A meeting was held at the School of Arts on Monday,
7th inst., to consider the question of organising a new
Freetrade League. Mr. E. Lonsdale, M.L.A., w r as the only
member of either Parliament present.
In opening the meeting the chairman read a number of
apologies for non-attendance. A discussion followed on
whether Freetrade was dead or not.— News Item.
1 watched them grouped in anguish in a hall;
Nine aged men, some youths, and half a score
Of females. Black Care brooded over all;
(As the night waned, Care brooded more and
more).
Their foolish eyes fanatic fervor shed
Upon the scene. They trod a fiscal deck
Whence all discerning citizens had fled.
I thought of derelicts upon a wreck.
They seemed to gaze on Something that had
Passed,
Something they loved and would not own was
gone ;
Near the Thing’s new’ly-opened grave they massed
And talked of It, and made unceasing moan.
Withal It did not stir. An oldster rose,
And, with an effort, choking back his sighs,
Wailed, “Are we downcast?” Seventeen “No-
noes ! ”
Drowned a protesting chorus of “ Aye-Ayes! ”
“ Then,” quoth he, “ let the Organising start ” ;
Whereat an earnest woman forward stepped,
And said that, speaking from her inmost heart,
She trusted that It was not dead, but slept.
Cheers—and another speaker took the stump.
And, casting towards the Stiff a dreary glance,
Owned that It’s torpid state gave him the hump.
He voiced the hope that It was in a trance.
For hours they spoke It soft as summer rain,
And likewise hard. They tried It ev’ry way.
All their manoeuvres were, however, vain ;
It lay there stark and motionless alway.
At long, long last a veteran uprose,
His hollow tones ’mid a sad silence boomed ;
“ We’re fools,” he cried, tears streaming down his
nose ;
“ How can we rouse What has been months
entombed ? ”
n.s.w.
D.B.J.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston : —
Previously acknowledged .. .. £39 17 0
Salisbury Downs, via White Cliffs 3 10
B.S .. .. ..106
“ Sodawater Camp ”.. .. .. 12 6
Thos. Skeffington 0 8 0
W. Gray.. .. .. .. .. 0 5 0
Fred Fryer 0 4 0
J. O’Toole 0 2 6
Jas. Barclay .. .. .. .. 0 10
Mrs. Boske .. .. .. .. 0 10
W. Sing.. .. .. .. . 0 2 6
G. Tye 026
Chas. Clinton 0 2 6
Frank Mayer .. .. .. .. 0 2 6
W. Harley 026
Batcher.. .. .. .. .. 0 2 6
J. S. Bag-ley 0 2 6
W. Eyles 0 10
J. Garctley .. .. .. .. 0 2 0
J. M. Cullman .. .. 0 5 6
Peter McDonnell 0 10 0
£47 18 6


Insure
with the
*
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE coniining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jordan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mrs. Wiggs.”
Theatre Royal “ Peter Pan.”
Criterion “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Palace “The Private Secretary.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Mark Hambourg (15th and 17th).
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Red Mill.”
Her Majesty’s “The Truth.”
Theatre Royal “ Les Cloches de Corneville.”
Kino’s “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Princes Court Hagenbeck’s Jungle.
Bijou “ Mrs. Lee’s Lodgers.”
Town Hall The Cherniavskis (Sept. 19).
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
Some humans are like chairs—made to be
sat upon. The Rev. Mr. Spalding, of “The
Private Secretary,” is of that category. In fact,
he is almost synonymous with something still
humbler in the house-furnishing line—a doormat.
As a specimen of the Lord’s Disjointed, who is
set upon and worried by the ourried liver and hob-
nailed temper of the old Cattermole Uncle with
the cayenne face, he really acts up to the teach-
ings of the gospel of non-resistance. Few old
friends get such a joyous welcome as did the
evergreen Secretary on Saturday night at
Sydney Palace. To the theatre-goer who
saw him for the first time it was a peculiar
satisfaction to discover the origin of such
phrases as “Go and blot yourself out,”
and “ What queer things you see when you
haven’t your gun.” It was like discovering the
sources of the Nile, or tracing the Parramatta
River away back to its small, dim, baby com-
mencements in the mountains that tower two feet
high behind the old orange-grove town. Frank
Thornton’s Spalding hasn’t grown older since he
first presented himself to Australia. The doom
of the double chin and the globular waistcoat
have not befallen him. The necessity of keeping
in condition to play Spalding must mean the
shunning of many delights, and much punching
of the ball. A fat Spalding would be mistaken
for a bishop, and the fun would cease. In fact
it would never begin, for who could hustle a
bishop or shut him up in a box and not be smitten
by lightning ? Thornton admits to having played
the foolish curate 1400 (or else 14,000) times, so
there is most likely no room for improvement in
the impersonation. He is now the essence of 1400
(or 14,000) Spaldings, and if the very first Spald-
ing could come back and look at himself as he is
now he would probably feel like his own ghost
returned to haunt himself. The pathetic face
and mechanical-toy smile are condensed art,
and the little crinkled old-young comedian who
plays the part is more Spalding than Thornton
these days. The character has become so much
a part of him that he will probably have the
goloshes buried with him. Failing that, his un-
quiet spirit will walk at large and clamor for a
Bath bun.
* * * *
The role of old Cayenne Cattermole, who
is still a jolly dog, and who makes it plain he has
been in his time a sad dog (which means a gay
dog), is played by Henry Ashfield with all the
humor and “ hearty ” get-up that are necessary.
Messrs. Temple and Stone are the two young men
who cause the complications of mistaken identity.
Mr. Douglas Hamilton, as the tailor who wants to
“soar,”is capital, and when he thoughtfully
seizes the tail of a guest’s coat to examine the
cloth and workmanship he suggests Kipling’s
monkeys who walked in the twilight, each with a
handful of the other’s caudal ornament. Mr.
Keppel Stephenson, as the hunting squire, wears
the morning-glqry clothes and the haughty, God-
and-my-right manner that befits a M.F.H. Miss
Belle Donaldson and Miss Clara Mansfield are the
two pretty flirts. Miss Harriet Trend, as Miss
Ashford, who has spooks in her mental storey,
and Miss Hawthorne, as the sentimental landlady,
complete an excellent cast.
** * *
“Miss Hook” prospers in her seventh
week at Sydney Criterion, and for all this paper
knows to the contrary, she may run for seven weeks
more. The box plan is at the old address, and the
“ House Full ” notice begins to show signs of wear
and tear, and the advt. still says that the free list
is entirely suspended. Seeing that the blamed
old thing has been suspended for about 17 years
in Sydney now, some manager might take it down
and give it decent burial.
** * *
“Peter Pan,” which is prospering at
Sydney Royal, is a pretty pantomime—as a
pantomime should be, but rarely is, nowadays,
with no “lodger ” jokes and no risky costumes.
But it can hardly be called a work of imagination,
or even of original fancy. What there is in
it of quaint whimsicality treads on well-worn
tracks of burlesque, and occasionally it
follows weakly in the footsteps of satirists
like Gilbert, That is surely a mistake.
In a work which is mainly of childlike and bland
sentiment there is no real place for biting satire.
The house-dog that is trusted to play with the
youngsters should have nary a bite. Yet “ Peter
Pan ” has been a startling success in England and
America. Its appeal to children can be easily
explained. Its appeal to the “Smart Set,” on
which the “Peter Pan ” boom has been built, comes
from a more complex reason. “Peter Pan”
seems to charm the very simple and the
very sinful—those whose imaginations are
yet childish, and those whose minds, wearied
with the contemplation of strange, old, tired sins
turn to childishness for change and mental refresh-
ment. Further, the “Smart Set” —which has no
children, and would not dream of having
any—probably comforts its conscience by
going into ecstasies over “Peter Pan.” It
thus indulges in a vicarious appreciation of
childhood, just as the pushite indulges in a
vicarious enjoyment of tender virtue by applaud-
ing the banal goodness of the melodramatic
heroine who extends her arm like a semaphore
and tells the cigarette-fiend that he shall not
touch her offspring. Australia as yet has but a
very small section of tired sinners ; the country is
too young and its wealth too evenly divided ; so
“Peter Pan” does not seem likely to win quite
the same favor here as in London and New York,
ifc * * *
The musical fort has been held all the
week at Sydney Town Hall by the Royal
Welsh Male Choir. The organisation is good
enough to go without the bit of gilding that
“royal” implies.. Eighteen choristers, with
accurately-trained voices, good appearances and
nicelv-fitting clothes, and possessing such typical
Welsh names as Thomas, Jones, Lewis and Davies
—names as Welsh as Wilhelm is German —lift up
their voices in song, and no matter what song it
is* it touches the spot that the Welshman keeps
soft for his Taffyland. For the Taffies must
predominate at the concerts, to judge by the storm
of applause that greets the singing of “Cwsg.”
Cwsg! There is joy in the mere look of the word
and the writer pronounces it “Swig.” But then
the writer never saw the word before, and if the
pronunciation be correct it is just inspiration.
One would think that Cwsg, like Macbeth, would
murder Sleep, but it doesn’t. It means Sleep.
The repertory of the choir is popular in the best
sense, and it gives unstintedly of an immensely
varied programme. There are the national airs
of many lands, battle songs and sacred songs,
descriptive songs and other songs. So much have
all these songs caught on that the Taits have
extended the Sydney season to Friday next.
* sfc *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) Mrs. Wiggs is
still telling everybody that things might be a lot
worse than they are, and Stubbins is still inclined
to doubt it so far as the former Miss Hazy’s pies are
concerned. Stubbins’ gloomy view of things
doesn’t, however, spread to the ticket-office, where
the opinion is that things couldn’t be much better
than they are unless the theatre was made of
indiarubber, or importers’ consciences, or some
other elastic substance.
** * *
“ Semicolon In a gaunt, bare space, like
a volcano crater that has retired from active busi-
ness, I sat, the other night, and gloated over two
spooks biffing each other beneath the stars.
Thousands of gloomy, perturbed people watched
the flickering ghosts hit each other in a pained
silence for 13 rounds, broken only by some ghost
of a Chinaman Ranging an occasional gong. The
two white spooks suddenly appeared out of
nothing, and, suspended in space, shook spooky
hands and proceeded with great earnestness to
biff each other with empty air. They biffed and
biffed and then inexplicably vanished, waved out
of existence behind white ghosts of towels, and
the stars looked down upon the void. Then
they flickered into a dim apparition of existence
again and proceeded to biff some more. In the
middle of a big biff they would both
jump 10ft. in the air, taking their plat-
form and their ropes with them; and then,
getting dizzy, they would as suddenly flop down
again, but without the comforting heavy thud of
reality. Occasionally they would fade eerily
away; a grey film would overshadow them, and
they would biff each other solemnly into everlast-
ing nothingness. And behind that black obscurity
I could imagine- those spectres still biffing each
other with tne same sombre, noiseless precision.
And in the mystic thirteenth round the shade of
Tommy biffed the spectre of Bill out of existence,
and left in all that wide void nothing tangible
except the everlasting stars, cold feet, and the
off-chance of getting a tram home. It was an
experience which worries me. I can see those
two wraiths flitting and flickering round the world,
doomed for some unpardonable sin to appear spas-
modically in unlikely places, and wearily biffing
each other for 13 rounds, patiently and grimly
and silently going through their purgatory of
unremitting biff for ever and ever. All over the
world these two ghouls will hit each other with
atmosphere in a dreadful silence ; and night after
night the spook of Bill will set blithely out to get
in the apparition of a knock-out blow upon the
ethereal point of Tommy. Every night, for years
to come. Bill will hope against hope that he will
get in that vaporous blow ; every night he will
start fresh and confident that this time, at last,
the wraith of Tommy will be counted out.
That will constitute the Hades of the ghost
of William, doomed, like Sisyphus, to roll
the stone always up the hill, and always
to know that in the thirteenth round the
spook of Thomas will roll all over him. Bill’s
sole chance is that some night the flickergraph
man will omit the fatal thirteenth round. If only
he can survive the thirteenth round, nobody
really knows what may happen. It’s a dreadful
and solemn thing to contemplate Thomas’s per-
turbation when the spook of Bill blithely appears
out of nothing at the beginning of the fourteenth
round that wasn’t there. Or, possibly, years
after, when Bill and Tom are working out their
purgatory before a dress-circle of Esquimaux,
Bill’s chance will come, and the astonished
Thomas-spook will receive one of Bill’s heavy
lefts on the alleged point and be noiselessly
counted out. Else there is no mercy in the
universe, and life and death are only futile
biograph flickers on the screen of eternity.
* * * sfc
The human cyclone in 12 parts known as
Abdullah’s Arabs hurled itself onto the Sydney
Tivoli stage last Saturday night, attired in the
baggy garments of the “Arabian Nights,” long
hair, and ferocious-looking whiskers. As a mere
show, the Ishmaelites looked impressive, and,
as soon as their performance started, the audience
realised that the men beneath the flapping clothes
of the desert were constructed of whalebone,
rubber and steel. One man made himself the
foundation-stone of a pyramid, and ten of the
troupe clambered up and roosted precariously on
him. Averaging the men at list., arithmetic
blandly asserts that the foundation member
must have been holding up 15401 b., or
something like two-thirds of a ton weight.
Which —as Euclid would have remarked in
a loud voice—is absurd. And, of course, it is
absurd and impossible ; but all the same the dusky
Philistines did it, along with a number of other
things that made Reason totter on its. reserved
chair. After the Arabs, the folk who have most
right to the footlights’ steady glare are the
Meymotts in a new sketch called “ My Burglar,”
the Miles Stavordale people, Austin Rudd, the
Rigoletto Brothers. Baby Watson, Fanny Powers,
Ted Kalman, and Irving JSayles.
sfc # * *
“ The Scarlet Pimpernel ” is enjoying the
second week, which in Adelaide spells Success;
but on closer acquaintance its little weaknesses
become more evident. It has been dramatised
by an American, who makes the eighteenth
century people talk of a “ good time,”
and say “anyway,” “why, yes,” and
“pretty bad.” And it has the modern Ameri-
can vice of making a brave man “chaff” a
beaten opponent, and talk when action would be
more natural. Nothing is more exasperating than
to be worked up for a thrill, and then made to
grin instead. The play is full of little stagey
tricks, and curiously devoid of thrill. The
Maskelyne co. is giving its illusions at the
Town Hall, but it will persist in acting little
plays to lead up to them ; and there is rather an
intolerable deal of head on the beer in some in-
stances. The Exhibition rink has stopped rolling.
The Salvation Army has been in that building,
with some of the best of the many Fleet films.
From the country towns —and S.A. doesn’t run to
country towns much—comes the news that the
Herbert Flemming co. has been doing a modest
round of them, with “ The Morals of Marcus” and
such plays, and has done better business than
might have been expected.
* * &
With the Fleet fading out of remem-
brance, and the Melbourne populace still in their
first stage of depression, “The Red Mill” is
nevertheless likely to do well at the Princess’s.
Considering that the two central characters carry
the feeble appellations of “ Con ” Kidder and
“Kid’’Conner respectively, the Dutch musical
play has more real humor in its strenuous frivolity
than might be supposed. Also it is original in so
far as it differs from the English species of musi-
cal comedy rather more distinctly than a crocodile
differs from an alligator. The stolid burgomaster
(Percy Denton) and the innkeeper (Chas. Loder),
and their female relatives who trifle with their
authority, give something of human interest to
the surroundings of Kid and Con. Moreover the
Governor of Zeeland (Ed. Sherras) introduces
himself with a • song which covers a mul-
titude of shortcomings in his rather crude
representation of doddering Don Juanity.
“ Every day is Ladies’ Day with me ” is
a ditty with a haunting refrain and a fund of
significance in it. The three principal old-men
characters may be said to keep the narrative from
being torn to shreds by John Ford and Fred
Leslie, whilst they con and kid in a series of dis-
guises, and turn somersaults on the light fantastic
toe. Miss Fanny Dango, as the graceful songan-
dance accomplice of the oft-recurring couple, goes
one better than her previous Melbourne go —in
“ The Dairymaids.” Miss Alma Barber happens
charmingly, but not often enough. Miss Olive
Godwin is there when wanted, and the chorus
gives much satisfaction, and the scenery and the
lighting and the well-conducted orchestra are
other inducements for one to drop in and gaze
upon the Mill when it is Red.
** * *
A week’s practice has worked some change
for the better in “Les Cloches ” at Melbourne
Royal, without establishing the company’s claim
to “national” importance. It may present all
the appearance of a National Opera Co. if some of
its members undergo a glorious transformation
presently, but at the current rate of improvement
their “form” in the aggregate will remain very
ordinary until death do them part. The music of
Planquette—good old music that it is—receives
more than merely respectable treatment all round.
Germaine (Miss Aileen Hodron), whose voice and
manner were overcome by nervousness on the
first night, has turned out to be a pretty singer of
the Conservatorium type, with enough of stage
experience to carry her through this easiest of
comic opera parts. Wilson Pembroke is a
melodious Marquis; much too matured for a
young man who is full of references to
his grandfather, but an honest matter-of-
course vocalist all the same. The Marquis
produces a voice that was cultivated after
he had it, whilst Miss Germaine’s warble suggests
that her voice was mostly made in the cultivation.
The tenor continues to sing more fluently than he
acts. Snazelle is still presenting the Bailie as a
quaint, sluggish, elderly joker of Cockney ex-
traction, instead of a pompous old Norman ass ;
and the miser (Macnaughton Duncan) has not
yet ceased to be a disappointment. A character
actor, such as James Athol wood for instance,
asks for no fatter part than that of a lean and
angry dramoperatic miser who goes staring,
babbling mad in the second act, and drops his
ill-gotten gold on the floor of an ancient chateau.
The imported Mr. Duncan is so unequal to his
opportunities that he even fails to grab the money
bags effectively. Melbourne has seen amateurs
more capable of filling the bill. Gobo (Alfred
Stephens) is alert and droll in his. grotesque fool-
ing, whilst the Serpolette of Miss Stella Gastelle
brightens everything she touches and puts a keen
edge on every line she utters.
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the nights
of “The Thief” are numbered,
and “The Truth” is about to be
told. Miss Anglin owns up to
her delinquencies in the play
that will be taken off to-
morrow (Friday), but the
confession that is here ex-
tracted by force of cir-
cumstances has no bear-
ing on “The Truth”
which will come to
light next Saturday
(12th). The new
piece is a comedy
by Clyde Fitch,
and it will run
for a fortnight—
after which
“The Shrew,”
or rather The
Taming of her.
After all,
the unkindest
observations
anyone can cast
at “Mrs. Lee’s
Lodgers ”
should be pre-
TITHERADGE AND
TITHERADGE, JUNIOR
(“The Thief.” at Melbourne
Her Majesty's).
faced with the remark that the lodgings are not
expensive. True, if J. C. Williamson, whose
maximum charge in the ordinary way is five
shillings, were to stage such a show as is presented
at the Bijou for three “bob,” the awful indigna-
tion of his patrons would be out of all proportion
to the crime, measured in the light of financial
comparison. To speak quite frankly, the world
would expect the J.O.W. firm to give a better
show than this at prices ranging from Is. 6d. to 3fd.
Nevertheless, the fact that nothing very costly
is just now expected at the Bijou seems to count as
a plea for merciful consideration of “Mrs. Lee’s
Lodgers.” The plea is utterly illogical, but the
Court will make a note of it. Besides, there is a
lady in the case. Miss Baines works hard to give
a disordered musical farce the semblance of a
rational entertainment. Also Miss Henningham
sings a neat song in a dainty way, and Miss Hes-
ford and the scenery make a more favorable im-
pression than some of the male lodgers—if they
are lodgers. They happen so casually and are so
painful that the writer can only think of them as
regrettable accidents.
“Robbery Under Arms ” is happily placed
at the Melbourne house of Anderson in Russell-
street. It can give as many literary points to
“ The Squatter’s Daughter ” as she, in her turn,
can give to “ The Kelly Gang,” and it serves to re-
store public confidence in the bold Australian bush
outlaw who suffers from demonstrations of disap-
proval whenever the lady aforesaid is revived. Cap-
tain Starlight actually excels Ned K. in popularity
on account of his ultimate triumph over the police.
Nevertheless he leaves much to be desired in blood-
shed. Firearms are frequently presented at the
limbs of the Law during the current nights at the
King’s, but never a one goes off. Otherwise the
drama gives complete satisfaction to crowded
audiences. Laurence Dunbar fell sick last week
(from the effects, probably, of being cast for a
character that isn’t exultantly wicked), and on
Saturday night another Dick Marston bushranged
in his stead. Also, the new man (O. Edgeworth)
did it very well. The other people carried on as
before, and the scenery fulfilled its obligations
with commendable regard to Australian detail.
THE TWO VOYSINS
(“The Thief," at
Melbourne Her
Majesty's).
West’s Pictures maintain their absorbing
fluency at Melbourne Olympia, the while the
cashbox is a study in abandoned corpulence. The
programme now stars the Sydney Fleet Review as
a topical attraction. In this film, the crowds of
marching companies would satisfy the least
patriotic of flick idolaters ; but it is saddening to
note that the Scawtch battalions in the review
evoke most applause. Whether an audience is
Scawtch or Collingwood, it seems to be moved
always to an orgy of palm-wallop by the appearance
of those “sojers,” who certainly bear their weird
epicene magnificence with much fortitude. Other
tolerable items include “The Shipwreekers,” an
abridged melodrama, peculiar in that its heroine
has plump, bare legs, while its villain has a bingey
of terrible dimensions.
*• * *
Princes Court, Melbourne, exhibits signs
of a re-awakening, and seems determined to
clout the public pocket during the ensuing summer.
The management is toiling to make the place
buzz, so that its greatest feature will be that it is
all features. Further seductions are already pro-
mised, the re-erection of the variety theatre on a
large scale being one of them. Moreover, the
practice of extracting coin for the side-shows has
been mostly extinguished, with the result that the
visitor now gets a lot of frivolity for his humble
shilling.
** * *
At Melbourne Town Hall nothing of vast
importance will happen prior to Saturday week
(19th), when the Cherniavski Concert Co. falls due.
The three Russian youths, whose ages range from
12 to 16 or thereabouts, perform on the piano,
violin, and ’cello respectively, their family genius
having been trained with tender solicitude by
their father, a distinguished musical conductor in
his own country. The only mistake he made was
in giving them a rather hard name. The other
members of the co., Percival Driver and Miss
Marie Hooten, have names that nobody can fall
out with.
*# * *
The departure of the Arabs has brought a
small rush of new turns to Melbourne Opera.
House. Osborn and Brooks, just out from
Europe, give a sketch, which begins in comedy of
a kind and terminates in duet and dance. The
male partner, who is believed to be Brooks and is
incidentally a brother of Mrs. Sandow, presents
himself in the first place as a reminder of Kyrle
Bellew, after which he is somebody else, before he
reveals a decided talent for impersonating a
young unsober husband with an artistic hiccup.
The turn of Osborn and Brooks (whichever each
of them may be) is flimsy, but nicely finished.
There are no jagged edges to it. Also Mignonette
Kokin, from Sydney, the capital dancer who
changes her frocks in biograph between her turns,
is an artist from first to last.' Galetti’s baboons,
on the other hand, strike one as being not out of
their apprenticeship. Their intelligence is very
marked, but as exponents of baboon culture they
are not yet pre-eminent.
Already there is an anxious search for the
man who is to knock out Bill Dyne at next elec-
tion. Among the Tories, the desire to knock out
Lyne amounts to a mania, and they are always
finding a man whom they imagine to be the man ;
but he never is. In 1901 Bill held his seat against
the enemy by a majority of 606. In 1903 he held
it with 2357 votes to the good. In 1906 the
majority for Bill was up to 3496. Lyne isn’t the
sort of man to inspire political love at first sight,
but the voters he once catches have a habit of
sticking to him. So the Foreign-traders start
heavy-hearted on the track in search of the Bill-
obliterator who is so hard to find.
“ Peter Pan ” writes :
Deaths run in some families. In my street not long ago
a landlady ejected her questionable female lodger by
heaving her goods and chattels on to the road. The un-
profitable one returned at dusk, and the twilight became
alive with the variety of “pidgeon” English hurled
around. The lodger procured half a small foundation
stone while the landlady armed herself with a bottle. It
was a willing go, and by the time the pair had settled
the issue the ambulance came to cart them away.
Neither recovered ; within a few days they
gave up the ghost, and departed to light the
heavenly “ scrap.” A relation of the landlady
betook himself to the deserted domicile, and in
cutting the limb off a tree in the back garden conceived
the brilliant notion of perching on the branch while saw-
ing it close to the trunk. When the saw had got in its
deadly work, his descent was sudden and rapid. Next
day he also was lugged away to the family vault. Prior
to this, the landlady’s husband, like Jonah of old, got
himself mixed up in a whale, and couldn’t get out again.
It was on a whaling station, and while climbing around
the carcase of a dead fish, the man slipped in and was
drowned in the oil. These troubles ended the family all
save a cousin, who hanged himself on a scaffold pole,
where a new building was going up.


MEN’S SHIRT SALE
During September every shirt is reduced.
Write for price lists if you cannot call.
Shirts sent carriage paid throughout the
Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES Ltd., Sydney.
Weary woman, ansemic an- 1 ' •
Do you wish to be health) a .-i ua
' Laxo-Tonic’s the cure.
It is pleasant and sure,
We never have known it to tail.
LAXO-XONIO PILLS, lOjd. and Is
Mrs. P. Tweed, California Gully, Bendigo,
says: —“The first time I used Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy convinced me that it was the right
mediciue for a cough. ”*
SOCIETY
“ Viator’s ” little story :
There has just been a rather dismal Jubilee of Wesley
Church, Lonsdale-street, Melbourne. Pastor Bath, a kind
of old man of the sea or ancient mariner in the denomi-
nation, enlivened the meeting with the romantic history
of the tabernacle’s familiar organ. It is a perfect anti-
Mascot for ill-luck, and is christened Jonah. Its early
history is involved in mystery, except that it is
known to have been built in German}', France,
Spain, Italy, or somewhere on the continent of Europe.
Every visitor to Wesley Church will have a distinct memory
of the organ—so peculiar, uncanny looking, and unlike
any other. There is a fancy that it was in some European
continental Catholic Church, but was dismissed for mis-
conduct and ill-luck. Anyhow, about 1840 it was bought
for a South American R.C. Church, and shipped from
London by a vessel bound, via Melbourne, on a round trip.
You have heard of ships beating about the Maoriland West
Coast for a month, unable to get in. That’s the way the
organ ship was on the road to South America. The organ
was determined not to go there. The numerous well-
known great spiky mountain peaks were like so many
forbidding: giants, blowing: wind and tempest.
“Curse the Jonah organ!” said the sailors.
“ Chuok it overboard.” The skipper didn’t, and
his ship was wrecked at Port Phillip Heads. The
organ escaped like the cat that came home when
the boy sent to drown it was himself drowned
in the Yarra. Being salvaged, the organ was
auctioned in Melbourne, and bought for the
Wesleyan Church, then in Collins-street West. It
was opened with a grand programme of scared (I
mean sacred) music, Governor Latrobe pre-
siding. Prophets of woe had wept over the buying
of it. They said, “It will bring disaster to the
Church—our colonial oath, it will.” However, it
ground out its music there for many years. It
was like Vesuvius, which never erupted in the
memory of man before 70 A.D., and yet had been
only lying low. In 1856, the church site was sold
to the Bank of Australasia for £40,000. “Where’s
the Jonah organ now ?” inquired the triumphant
ones. “Never mind, a day will come,” said.the
prophets, in the spirit of Newman Noggs, and
again they said, “Our colonial oath !” They
wanted the organ sold. “ Never 1 ” said the others.
“ It shall adorn the new Wesley Church in Lons-
dale-street.” It did, and does. Mark the sequel:
after a few years of prosperity the Church
began to go down, down. For 20 years, from
'73 to ’93, it was an awful white elephant.
Then Edgar took it up, and has been gal-
vanising ever since with Pleasant Sunday
Afternoons and what not. But it is a tough
struggle, and Edgar has the Jonah organ
against him all the time. It squats up there
in the north gallery, exuberant. The evil
spirit of that organ will pull the whole con-
cern down yet. The works of the Devil—that’s
to say, the entrails of the kist of whistles—have been
taken out and replaced, but-it is like the tortoise that
kept on crawling when its head was chopped off.
* * * *
“ 0.K.” writes :
What struck me as regards the able-bodied young sea-
men of the White Armada was their sobriety and seeming
level-headedness. They were not only better conducted
than the sailors we sometimes get ashore from British
and foreign warships—they were also more quietly
observant and self-contained in their manner. With
hardly an exception, as far as a casual observer could dis-
cover, they offered every discouragement, compatible
with courtesy, to the girl who was making a fool
of herself. They treated her as any decent man
treats an ordinarily respeotable young woman when she
happens to have lost her head. In their unwillingness to
be “drawn” by giddy girleens one saw the difference
between different estimates of “the respect due to
woman.” When a couple of thousand sailors and marines
were assembled on the ground floor of Melbourne Exhi-
bition building t’other Monday, a number of their female
“cousins” in the balconies pioked up flowers and things
from the refreshment tables and dropped them to the
boys below, who seemed surprised at such easy
familiarity. In this case the women could plead distance
as their excuse. They were making: Advances from afar
off with no thought of getting: within short range of the
visitors. But the “ tarts” who ogled them, or talked at
them invitingly in the streets, had no excuse save that
they could see the frsh were disinclined to bite.
* * * *
The Yankee fleet raised a crop of weird
suggestions ; scores of people wrote to the papers
to ask other people to do for a third lot of people
things for which no man in his senses would
ask in his private, personal capacity. One genius
sent to the S. M. Herald proposing that “two
days’ pay be deducted from all Government
servants’ salaries, and divided among those of the
poor who will lose pay for the two holidays during
the Fleet’s visit.” But, though the crop of sugges-
tions was so heavy, somehow nobody suggested
that every property-owner should forfeit a week’s
rent for each of his occupied houses, so that the
tenant might enjoy Fleet-week free from anxiety.
Nobody even proposed that the !S. M. Herald
should throw in a week’s papers for nothing, so
that the regular customers might shout two
Jackies a beer each.
Melbourne Argus is a paltry rag. Having
learned that Admiral Sperry was unlikely to send
100 men up to Mirboo North (Vic.), as had been
proposed, it fired this off, apparently “from our
own correspondent ”
The cancelling of the trip to Mirboo is attributed to the
Prime Minister, Mr. Deakin’s, political views differing
from those of our Federal representative, Mr. W. H.
Irvine. In the street and at the saleyards to-day, the
opinion is freely expressed that political jealousy on the
part of the Prime Minister towards Flinders’ member has
solely brought about the snub to Mirboo North.
It seems that this town, which talks like New
York and is slightly more populous than a city hash-
house, is in the constituency of the lamentable
Iceberg Irvine—which fact Prime Minister Deakin
probably didn’t know. Moreover, the arrange-
ments for Mirboo’s microscopic shivoo were in the
hands of State functionaries, and outside Deakin’s
range altogether. But what difference did that
make to the paltry, dog-minded Argus ?
*** , *
“ F.C.” sees the Fleet off':—
On the last night of the Fleet’s stay Melbourne was in
the mood to go a-mafficking. It needed but a little less
sobriety on Jackie’s part and an extended hour or two’s
leave-taking, and Swanston-street would have seen some
gaudy episodes. As it was, the Jackies put the cork in
early, and by 11 were on their way to get the train to the
Port or Wiiliamstown. The last quarter-mile of their
track to the station lay through packed crowds where
girls hugged and kissed them —and snared the buttons
from their tunics —till at last they were hoisted shoulder
high, and tumbled jumpily over the crowd, ’mid ap-
plause and kisses, till the platform received them. As to
how'the local crowds got home no one knows. Coming
into the city they packed into Tait’s trains till even the
hat-racks carried children, while men swarmed on to the
roofs and took awful risks with bridges. The easy-going
Tramway Co. reaped rich profits, but its happiness is
spoilt by the knowledge that, had an adequate service
been provided, its harvest might have been trebled.
Hundreds of passengers rode on the roofs that night,
and when an unfortunate over-driven conductor
essayed to collect fares at that dizzy altitude
he was greeted with the scornful laugh of the
highly-placed person and urged to run away and play.
Also he was besought to keep his head shut, else the
crowd would come down and lift his car off the rails and
MISLEADING.
WHISKERS : “ Who's that?”
HIS FRIEND : “ That’s Raphael Jones. He just
missed being hung this year."
WHISKERS: “Dear me! It’s a wonder they
allow these dangerous charae”
HIS FRIEND: “ Heavens! I referred to his
pictures. He's an artist."
throw it away. The citizens have only themselves to
blame for the tram debacle. They have for years allowed
the company to disgracefully overload its cars instead of
building enough for ordinary traffic and a reserve supply
to boot; and when a rush comes the service breaks down.
IN A REMOTE SUBURB.
MISS FAIRLY : “ Oh, I always carry a
big umbrella going home in case I should meet a man."
MISS FRIGHTY : “ And I always carry a lantern."
Of course when Admiral Sperry reached
Melbourne the same old foolishness of “officially
visiting ” was repeated. He must pay a call, then
race back and be on hand while the call was re-
turned. Two days later, he had to make an official
entry, and receive an address from the Mayor on
entering the city he had already entered ; after
which, an hour later, he pretended that he and the ,
Mayor were perfect strangers, and called on him
at his Town Hall, and passed the time of day. It
is the make-believe departure of Gov.-Gen. North-
cote and his wife all over again. There was much
fuss and to-do, and several 'persons nearly wept
copiously over that departing couple a month ago ;
yet the G.-G. has been in Melbourne twice since
then, and he and his lady are still in Brisbane, or
alleged to be.
* * * *
Apropos Melbourne’s Fleet decorations.
There might have been more official supervision
of the horde of calico signs which decorated the
shop fronts. A good proportion of them ought to
have been boiled down for gun-wads, and some
extra delirious ones should have been murdered
on the spot. When the artists—mostly sign-
painters—confined their imaginations to prosaic
things—to human beings, battleships, and corru-
gated wave formations —they were comprehen-
sible ; but when they paddled in the allegorical,
they were caught in the undertow. That is to say,
while trying to explain themselves, they forgot
to explain the animals which they incidentally
created. One or two of the beasties might have
been confused in any nonsensical moment with
kangaroos and eagles; but quite a lot of them
showed such evidences of reckless cross-breeding
that the whole of a mixed menagerie would easily
recognise each as a relation. A small committee,
composed of an Inspector of Nuisances, a couple
of artists, and a man with a ladder and an axe —
a sort of Committee of Public Safety—should have
been empowered to go round and sub-edit the
calico.
* * * *
A bad phase of the Fleet festivities in
Melbourne was the struggle of the dailies to out-
slush one another. Each of the three papers
recorded heaps of incidents, and for the first
couple of days the piffle was entertaining enough.
After that, either things stopped happening, or
the writers’ imaginations got used up, for the
yarns began to look amazingly like the old ones
all over again. One day the Age came out with
an alleged interview with a tar, who, to about four
or five questions, answered with nothing but
“Sure!” while on the following evening the
Herald printed a similar interview with a nigger,
who in similar fashion, replied “Not much!”
They both very much resembled Henry Lawson’s
tale of how he interviewed his old, bucolic school-
fellow who said nothing at all except “My oath.”
However, that same evening, the Herald shoved
this item in :
A sailor was lying sleeping peacefully in the Sydney
Domain, when a policeman came along and tapped him
with his baton. “ Here, get up,” said the policeman.
“ Oh, don’t w’Orry me,” groaned the sailor. “ Can’t you
leave me alone ? I’ve seen your harbor. I saw it when
we came through the Heads.”
Whereupon the Age, on the following morning,
burst out with an item ending thus :
By-and-bye a policeman came along on his beat. He
drew his baton and tapped the sleeper two or three times
on the feet. “Here! Wake up! Wake up!’ The
sailor awoke and rubbed his eyes. “Right,” he sleepily
said; “right, I admet it.” “Admit what?” ‘Your
Premier’s the fonniest man on airth all right; don t ask
me. I give in at wance.” Then the sleeper rolled over
and snored afresh.
And about this time the public began to feel tired.
* * * *
Brisbane Board of Waterworks, a semi-
State institution, is in for a peck of trouble, and
so, likewise, are the two local gas companies.
Years back, before electric traction was thought
of, the gas and water people laid their mains up
and down any old street in the Queensland
capital. Then Yankee man Badger bought the
old horse trams out, because a supine municipal
council wouldn’t give £45,000 for the concern,
and next Badger formed the Brisbane Tramway
Co., got his little Bill through the State Legis-
lature, and put his rails down just where the
trade was brisk (usually a few inches above the
other peoples’ mains). Then he got his power house
going, and started to make dividends for his share-
holders in London. When the gas and water
people smelt danger the tram co. said, “Well,
that’s your funeral.” When the municipal
councils protested the tram boss said, “This is
my busy day.” And he went on tearing up
streets and licking up all the revenue insight.
Now the engineers ,of the Water Board make
daily reports as to the damage from electrolysis,
and daily reports come in of mains becoming soft
and spongy ; but the Tram Co. says nothing, and
just goes on earning increased revenue. If the
trams were a municipal or State concern, then
they and the water business would be practically
under one management, and wbuld Work together.
But, as things are. Badger is a foreign potentate,
and nothing short of an extradition treaty with
Badger seems likely to meet the case.
A letter from Melbourne :
Dear Bulletin,— ln a recent issue of your journal I saw
some fairly witty verses, voicing the usual Sydney gibes
against the Melbourne tramway system. To see how far
these gibes are justified, I have endeavored to institute a
comparison between the Sydney and Melbourne tram-
ways. Owing to the extraordinarily crooked and cir-
cuitous nature of most of the Sydney lines, I found great
difficulty in doing this ; but after much search on maps
and timetables have concluded that it would be fair to
compare [Willoughby and Marrickville, in Sydney, with
Moreland and Brighton-road, in Melbourne. Measuring in
a straight line from start to finish on the best maps ob-
tainable, I find Willoughby barely 4 miles and Marrickville
4k miles from Sydney, and Moreland and Brighton-road,
about 4J miles each from Melbourne. The times taken
for the journey, according to a time-table I obtained in
Sydney a year ago, and which, I presume, remain un-
altered are : Willoughby 36 minutes, and Marrickville 42
minutes ; and by careful timing by a good watch : More-
land, 29 minutes, and Brighton-road 30 minutes. The
fares are: Willoughby, 3d. ; Marrickville, 3d ; Moreland,
2d. ; and Brighton-road, 3d. So that the Melbourne trams
are faster, and on the whole cheaper than the Sydney
ones. They are also much more convenient to enter or
leave, especially for old and feeble people, women carrying
babies, and persons carrying burdens, and they do not
encumber the streets with a mass of poles and winTThat
are very properly forbidden in the central area of Berlin
and other European cities.—Yours, etc., W. C. Kernot,
M. Inst. C.E., Professor of Engineering.
THE TEMPERANCE JANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There has been a bitter wrangle in the Melbourne camp
of the W.C. T. U., and the saintly sisterhood has been
busy tearing hair and hurling recriminations. In fact,
Melbourne has not witnessed such a conflict since the
Presbyterian General Assembly became a comparatively
decorous body.
It seems the godly sister who
Is wild with Squires and wroth with Burns
May have her fighting moments too,
And in the W.O.T.U.
They have their pugilistic turns ;
And sister Emma Jane will scratch,
And gentle Ruth contrive to snatch
Some handfuls of Amanda’s thatch.
I held these temperance dames to be
As mild as plump, maternal ducks.
Methought they’d never disagree
O’er buttered toast and picnic tea,
And yet, it seems, Letitia chucks
Her dregs upon the saintly ones,
And Mistress Prim in anger runs
To smite Bigonia with the buns.
They say the holy meeting place
Is filled with those who rage and rail,
And down each W.C.T. face
The journalistic scoffers trace
Deep furrows of a cattish nail.
A fact of note this teaches—viz.,
Until you’ve seen the Union whiz,
You don’t know what a tea-fight is !
vic.
SILAS SNELL.
UGLIFICATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have you not sometimes passed, musing alone,
By some small house beside a lonely road,
All hemmed about by trees and signs of peace,
An old dog sleeping, hens and hives, and beds
Of lusty old perennials brayely gleaming,
And thought with envy: “ Here is peace or nowhere,”
And “ How our stiff old novelists in their fancy
Brought from the wicked world to such a house
Their disillusioned rakes, making them live
Impossibly by philosophy, bees and sheep ” ;
And then lost all the mood and all the.beauty
Hearing from out the innocent open windows
A horrible discordance, brazen tones
Of a most vile and vulgar phonograph.
Roaring a comic song in Yankee accents,
Or murdering silence with the awful voice
Of not-to-be-forgotten bygone bands ;
And thought once more how lovely life would be
And yet how very ugly men will make it ;
How they will drag the town into the country
And wreck the good God’s peace with nasty noises ;
And wondered if, haply, at Heaven’s gates
St. Peter in a purple bowler sits
And snoozes over Monday’s Daily Mail
Or nods upon the magazine called Strand
While angels in their motors tootle by ?
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL


The owner scratched the favorite horse,
The punter scratched his head,
And gazed distracted to the course ;
Then to his friends he said :
“ This punting may allure, but not
As other things allure,
And I would sooner put my lot
On Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
E. Carne, Otway Street, Ballarat, says :
“ I can truthfully say Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is an effective remedy for coughs and
colds.”*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.
ill/
32JSKF
Vi
's
Summer Suit Comfort.
WE offer a splendid Summer Suit, consisting of coat
and trousers only, that will come up to your ideal
in warm weather garments. We have constructed
them lightly—they are pure wool—coats are unlined,
with patch pockets and cut in high-class style. the
patterns are decidedly better than those of last season,
and the garments are equal to many made to order.
SLATE GROUND FABRICS with light blue stripes.
SLATE GROUND FABRICS with white stripes.
DRAB GROUND FABRICS with white stripes.
21/- THE SUIT OF COAT AND TROUSERS.
Postage, 1/- extra.
PEAPES &7C0., LTD.,
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The bishops at Lambeth (England) seem
to have discussed pretty well everything relating
to church life except one item —the limitation of
their own powers over the rank and file of the
toilers in the vineyard. During the last year or
so, Australia has suffered from a large and dis-
mal assortment of church squabbles, the chief
result of which has been to show up the remark-
able incapacity of the ordinary church dignitary
to govern the men under his command. Judging
from the press reports of the frequent and foolish
clerical rows which have devastated the morning
papers, the ecclesiastical mind seems to be too
full of piety—or what passes for it—to leave any
room for ordinary fair play. The parson’s repu-
tation is his living. If he is ignominiously cast
out of the fold he has to adopt one of three
courses:—
1. Take to trade.
2. Take to drink.
3. Start a new religion.
As a rule, he is unfitted by training for the first,
and the other two are undesirable. At present,
the journeyman preacher seems to hang on to his
reputation and his crust only so long its his bishop
pleases ; and if he is relieved of his charge by the
arrogant person in gaiters, nothing short of a
social upheaval will secure him a hearing or hoist
him back to his position. In the ears of the
modern bishop the voice of scandal sounds louder
than the Sermon on the Mount.
* * * •
A Victorian Court is struggling with the
question : What is the character of the people of
Leighton Buzzard (England)? The destination
of £2300 depends on the character of the people of
Leighton Buzzard. Mrs. Sarah Wallace, de-
ceased, came from Buzzard, but she found Victoria
a land flowing with milk and rabbits and other
luxuries, so she never went back. When she died
she left £2300 to pay for bringing out other
Buzzardites to enjoy the blessings that she had
herself received. The trouble is that, if the
people of Buzzard are criminals, idiots, and hope-
lessly diseased, then the wise and thoughtful
immigration law forbids their entry into Victoria,
and in that case the bequest is void, and the
money goes to the next of kin. And without
saying that the good people of Buzzard-
town are all criminal paupers with wooden
legs, the lawyer for the next of kin points
out that there is no evidence before the Court
to show that they are not. He asks his Honor to
pause before ordering that £2300 shall be spent on
the possibly illegal importation of Buzzard people
who may be disqualified On arrival through
paralysis and numerous convictions for burglary,
and at time of writing his Honor was so much
impressed that he had gone away and paused.
OBVIOUS.
CRITIC: “Is this a friend of yours, Dauber? ”
DAUBER: “ Well, he was before I painted his
portrait! ”
A story of the love that died out was
lately ventilated in the Collingwood (Vic.) Court,
She had advertised in the dailies Widow, 60,
with small means, wishes to meet elderly Chris-
tian, view above.” A professed Christian,
attracted by the “ small means,” duly happened,
and the two souls fused without delay. Three
months sped. Then came a day when something
occurred to vex the elderly Christian, and he
plugged liis gentle helpmeet in the eye. Being
puzzled at his conduct, she laid the happening for
arbitrament before the Court aforesaid. Her
spouse’s plea was provocation. He asserted that
the widow lady used (1) to eat biscuits in, and
scatter the crumbs thereof about, the slumber
furniture; (2) to snore ; (3) to talk in her sleep;
AN ARTISTS TRIALS.
TAME ARTIST (in difficulties with drawing): “ Can't you look a hit pleasant or something?
This face I've got here is no good to me whatever."
MODEL (aside): “ I'd he sorry to own it.”
(4) to fall heavily out of bed about 12 o’clock every
night. As a result, he explained, his love
shrivelled within him and turned to cold dislike.
The widow denied the charges seriatim, bringing
special passion into her rebuttal of the dastardly
snoring charge. Either the magistrate believed
the female Christian, or he didn’t consider the
offences she was charged with merited the violent
treatment they had earned, for he gave the small-
means-seeker a cold and fish-like slab of gaol to go
on with. And the wife is satisfied—even though for
a space she will have no one to pick her up when,
as the chimes of midnight strike her ears, she
strikes the floor.
“ Ganesha ” : The Dago hawker shrugs
his shoulders, puffs his cigarette butt, and refixes
his flowery silk muffler as he makes complaint at
being “shot” with his truck from his old stand
on Princes’ Bridge, Melbourne. “Lor-a
blime, Meesta, I sell cheep-a feesh te-
die. We get de shoot-a, you call de
dirt kick out-a. Sacramento de Yank-a
Fleet ! Block de traffic ? Council
i say ‘No beesnees on de Bridge.
\ Move on.’ I move on. No
more-a de cheep feesh, de fine
oyst-a, de fruit, de violetta,
de pine, de banan ! By cripe,
I sell de pea-nut. Mak-a
room for Bent! De free
countree, I laf-a ‘ha ha ! ’
Cheep-a feesh te-die ! ” Fat
commercial men crowd round
the barrows for bargains
before catching their trains.
All the Dago hawkers, a long,
motley, excited, gesticulating
row of fish and fruit vendors,
// are kept busy. A good Fat
' Man, like a suburban house-
wife, cannot resist a bargain,
even if the bargain is speckled
with dust, grimy with smoke from
adjacent engines and factory chim-
neys, softened by the spring sun,
'//. or laden with assorted germs. This
is the Dago’s last day. He knows
his business “See, de feesh,” he cries,
his dark eyes rolling in a frenzy of in-
„ ... spiration, “ Cheep-a te-die. Fine-a mullet,
m ' four a sheelin’. All-a stink te-morra.” He
/ holds up a sample before the eager eyes of a
Fat Man. “ ’Ooo ’ave-a one ? Any sport-a?”
There’s no chance of losing the Dago. He won’t
emigrate or get work. If he’s shifted off Princes’
Bridge he’ll be round the corner selling “de pea-
nut” or “de ice-a creem.”
Prahran (Vic.) council boasts a fine set of
incompetents. They haven’t yet got started on
their electric tramway to Malvern, though they
have been about three years making- preparations
and arguing points. Now their rubbish destructor
is bringing them into contumely. Someone, told
them a while back that they could turn the heat
generated by the burning mullock into electricity
and sell it for cash ; and having smothered their
surprise and pondered the matter at great length,
they bought the necessary converting machinery
and contracted to sell the force at a halfpenny
per unit to the Electric Light and Traction Co.—
the very same company which has a contract to
supply P’ran with electricity for its street lamps
at 4d. per unit. So P’ran first supplies electricity to
the co. at a ha’penny, and then buys it back again
for fourpence. Worse than this, the councillors
have actually agreed, should they desire to termi-
nate the wonderful halfpenny contract before the
stipulated seven years expires, to soothe the com-
pany’s feelings with a cheque for £ll 4s. for each
month of the unexpired term.
That rather squalid British peerage, the
Poulett earldom, has allied itself with the stage.
There isn’t very much money among the Pouletts,
as earls go, and they are not very old-established ;
and they never did anything great so far as the
world knows ; and the last earl had three wives
and was in a constant state of discredit because of
a shabby man who used to grind an organ about
London streets and carry a placard setting forth
that the grinder was old Poulett’s son and heir,
thrown into the streets by a heartless father.
SAW HIS THUMB PRINT.
The earliest drawings of prehistoric man are sure to
interest you, because it is not at all improbable that
Adam himself drew some of the pictures.—World’s
News (Sydney).
EDITOR (to artist): “See here, young man, you
must he Adam, and you ain't gain'ter palm
off’n me drawings rejected by Moses outer
Genesis .”
Old Poulett always frantically repudiated the
organ-circulator, but it seems fairly certain that
he was the son of the earl’s first wife, whoever his
father might be. Anyhow, old Poulett died, and
the House of Lords rejected the organ-grinder
and gave the coronet to the son of the third wife.
And he has now married Sylvia Storey, daughter
of Frederick of that ilk, the dancer who used to
look like a daddy-long-legs gone crazy.
Last week N.S.W. Justice Simpson said
things to the Best-Dressed Man, and took Ins
annuity from hiifi, and ordered him to pay Costs,
and in a large,-general way showed him the door.
The Best-Dressed Man, by name Louis Alexander,
had been the beautiful clerk of a Sydney agent
when Hannah Solomon, a middle-aged Hebrew
maid with money, fell in love with him in a
boarding-house and married him. He transferred
himself to Hannah, who was 28 years his senior,
for £lOO cash and £2OO a year, and Hannah was
to pay all household expenses. Life didn’t go
smoothly with Hannah Alexander, the wife of the
Best-Dressed Man, and she got her divorce on
the ground that her beautifully-clothed purchase
was running after younger goddesses. The deed
of purchase didn’t specify that the Best-Dressed
Man would lose his annuity in case of divorce, so,
though he was free of Hannah, he still revelled
for a time in the glittering affluence of
£3l6s. lid. weekly-all Hannah’s money. Then he
found that the agreement was a broken reed after
all. It looked solid, but Mr. G. B. Simpson put
his foot through it. It was, he said, against
public policy, and the Best-Dressed Man dis-
covered right there that the Law has reserve forces
at its command which he probably had never
heard of before. He went forth bereft of his
£3 16s. lid. per week, and with much Costs to
pay, and possibly took a bee-line for fhe S. M.
Herald to look at the “situations vacant.”
Jewellery thieving promises to acquire a
recognised commercial respectability in Mel-
bourne. It is now in the Exchange and Barter
stage of development. Some weeks back a well-
known character was robbed of Ins watch and
chain. Being wise in the ways of the criminal
world he reported his loss immediately—not to
the police, but to one of the licensed lawbreakers
who deal with stolen goods. Within 24 hours this
shady citizen informed bis client that the watch
and chain were still intact and would be obtain-
able for £l5 cash. The robbed one agreed to re-
purchase his property at the price. He is about
the “ hardest nut ” in Melbourne, but he reckoned
that the terms were reasonable. So he paid the
money and recovered his watch and chain.
Whereupon a lady friend made inquiries,
through the same medium, concerning a
valuable diamond trinket which had been
burgled from her. The report in this case was
politely apologetic. The price she offered would
have been accepted, but, alas ! the offer came too
late. The diamond gew-gaw was hot to be bought
for love or money. It had been broken up and dis-
posed of, owing to information received—from a
police source. This is a misfortune certain to
befall any Melbourne person who gets robbed of
valuable jewellery by expert thieves, and goes to
the police with the hope of recovering it. For
the expert thieves are in touch with a boss rogue,
and he is in touch with influential detectives who
protect him and profit by him. Therefore, when
he gets word that an unfriendly ’tec is looking for
a certain stolen article, he advises his brother
criminals to destroy its identity. Thus many a
good watch comes to be put into the melting pot,
and many a bad egg is kept out of the jug.
-a-***
The garden party that the Prince and
Princess of Wales gave to the Pan-Anglican
Congress in July must have been adovely farrago
of representative religionists in their best clothes.
There were negro bishops from West Africa,
black parsons from India, brown ditto from Japan,
and numerous other personifications of Goodness
in various shades. And the class distinctions in
holiness were most delicately
marked by the Royal personages
present. Queen Alexandra,
looking around for a special ob-
ject of graciousness, spotted the
wife of the Archbishop of Can-
terbury, and chatted with her
for quite a long while. The
Archbishopess wore brown net
over white, bordered with em-
broidery in twoshadesof Go v elin
blue. A hat to match the dress
was trimmed with two blue
ostrich feathers—one pale, one
dark. Altogether the outfit was
so pleasing that if the lady had
sold it and given the money to
the. poor of Lambeth, where the
Archiepiscopal palace is, a lot
of people might dodge the
stomach-anguish of hunger for
a month or more. Mrs. David-
son, the wife of the present
Archhishop, is a daughter of
the previous Archbishop, and
was cradled in an atmosphere of polite
piety. No wonder the Queen talked to her
for 20 minutes, and admired her hat! It is gene-
rally understood in Royal circles that Mrs.
Davidson would be a perfectly fitting person to
chaperone a princess of the Blood in the Realm
above.
■* *
An advt. among the “ Church Services ”
in a recent issue of Melbourne Age ran
Tub Bud Too Short, The Clothes Too Narrow.
Everybody Welcome.
Sunday night next, 8 p.m.
BAGGAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gracious Lady Gin de Bayne unto the public’s loss
Arrived in time and broidered shroud where Charon rows
across ;
The boatman muttered ’neath his breath a wish she might
be sunk,
For in a row lay portmanteaux, dress baskets, bag, and
trunk.
When Peter his (rayed halo raised to Lady Gin de Bayne,
Nought bore she but a reticule upon her chatelaine.
“My luggage, my good man,” she said, “ I had to leave
behind,
There’s no cab rank on Styx’s bank, no drayman could I
find.
“In it I have my downy wings, likewise my golden
crown,
My spotless robes —which yours are riot.” Here an em-
phatic frown
Marred Peter’s brow. As in his breast Old Adam ’gan to
stir,
He choked a curse : “ What’s in that purse?” “That is
my virtue, sir.”
vie.
JEACH.


LOCOMOTIVES
as Manufactured
by
HUDSWELL, CLARKE & CO., LTD., Leeds (England).
Represented by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., 64 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Catalogues) prices and all particulars upon application.
GAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold full stocks of all Mining Requisites,
including Air Compressors, Rock Drills,
Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps,
————————— Batteries, Krom Rolls, Concentrating
Machinery, etc., and for the Mine Workshops, Laches, all sizes, Radial and Pillar Drills, Punch and Shear
Machines, ’Pipe and Bolt and Nut Cutters, Shafting, Pulleys, Belting.
Sole Agents for F. REDDAWAY & CO., Manchester, CAMEL HAIR BELTINC ; RANSOMES’, SIMS’,
Addresses- JEFFRIES’ PORTABLE, STATIONARY and TRACTION ENCINES.
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Post Office Chambers, Sydney; Lydiard Street, Ballarat; and Bendigo.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State-frighters lately took the Customs and
other returns for last year—the Customs returns particu-
larly—and thereupon showed what a rapacious brigand
Treasurer W. Lyne was to even propose such a scheme as
his for the settlement of the financial troubles between
Commonwealth and States. Apart altogether from the
fact that the State-frighters mostly disregarded the Com-
monwealth’s growing expenditure, the revenue figures
they took were the figures for a year that boomed in several
ways at once. Thus the Customs and Excise revenue,
which totalled £2,130,433 in the first two months of last
financial year, is back to £1,946,814 for the first two
months of this financial year.
State revenues also show a serious shrinkage;
but expenditure doesn’t. Like a lot of other people, most
of the State Governments refused to realise that a
very temporary* boom was in progress ; consequently,
though every one of them has a heavy accumulated deficit,
they in several cases made permanent reductions in taxa-
tion and other sources of revenue, and on the other hand
made permanent increases in expenditure. Trouble is
therefore almost certain to brew before very long. N. S.
Wales, for instance, has in two months gone to the bad
£126,356 in the matter of revenue, as compared with the
first two months of the previous financial year, and its
expenditure has bounded up £147,112 -an aggregate of
£273,468. A movement of that size threatens a deficit in
even such a moderately good year as this promises to be,
and though close upon £1,000,000 of land-sales money is
passed in as revenue. Victoria is worse so far as shrinkage
of revenue is concerned; about its expenditure Bent is
silent—it is one of the few things he doesn’t talk about.
In fact, Queensland is the one State that shows any* im-
provement at all, thanks to a very* timely gold-mining
revival, the continued extension of land settlement, and
another good sugar harvest; yet its improvement occurs
only in spots.
Individual figures for the month follow
State Revenues for. August.
Aug., ’O7. Aug., ’OB.
N. S. Wales .. £1,079,451 £1,010,064 Dec. £69,387
Victoria .. 706,527 599,272 Dec. 107,255
Queensland .. 333,929 332,340 Dec. 1,589
Westralia .. 271,818 252,142 Dec. 19,676
Tasmania .. 71,697 65,161 Dec. 6,536
S. Australia .. Too tired to produce monthly figures.
And for the two months of the financial y*ear :
State Revenues for the Year so far.
July-Aug., July-Aug.,
1907. 1908.
N. S. Wales .. £2,205,737 £2,079,381 Dec. £126,356
Victoria .. 1,471,708 1,204,502 Dec. 267,206
Queensland .. 694,277 739,645 Inc. 45,368
Westralia .. 461,823 413,761 Dec. 48,062
Tasmania .. 141,724 123,379 Dec. 18,345
S. Australia .. Too tired to report even once every two
months.
There is mostly a blank where the expenditure
figures ought to be ; only three States furnish any details at
all, and only two of thoseshow the extent to widen they have
dived into Lazarus’s pocket, Lazarus nowadays being
usually a person quite affluent enough to lend a trifle to a
State Treasurer:—
Expenditure for Year so far.
1907. 3908.
N. S. Wales .. £2,054,404 £2,201,516 Inc. £147,112
Queensland .. 401,597 513,444 Inc. 111,847
Westralia .. 470,510 489,833 Dec. 19,323
And on loan account £372,722 has been spent in N. S. ■
Wales, as against £270,302 in the corresponding two
months of 1907, and £231,217 in the ditto of 1906
which shows that the Wade-Oarruthers “Il' form ”
has got mislaid, or drunk, or something. Queensland,
which is living (so far as loans are concerned) on
money borrowed in it# drunk days, and by a merciful dis-
pensation of Providence locked up in a bank that couldn’t
repay it at once, has in the two months spent £98,201, as
against £137,989 last year. But Queensland, besides liv-
ing on the money that its predecessors borrowed and
couldn’t spend, is also going in for several time-bargains ;
in other words, it is going to make its successors also do
some borrowing (or some saving up) to pay for the
Etheridge, Oloncurry extension, and other lines now being
or about to be constructed. It is very canny, this living
on your successors as well as your predecessors, but it
doesn’t leave the position as good and clean as it looks on
paper.
■*■***
The Commonwealth Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Bonus to Added
Policy- to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends, holders, serves, serves.
1904.. £3683 8 p.c. = £ll2O £416 £2147 £1647
1905 .. 2182 6 „ „ 1177 360 645 2292
1906 .. 2048 6 „ „ 1186 415 447 2739
1907 .. 1529 5 „ „ 988 541 3280
1908 .. 1818 6 „ ~ 1186 632 3912
The co. is moving along creditably, so far as the published
accounts enable one to judge. This shows the movement
better perhaps:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1904 .. £8,813 £3758 £1905 42*6 p.c. 21*6 p.c.
1905 .. 7,590 4207 1944 55*4 ~ 25*6 „
1906 .. 8,359 4712 2376 56*3 „ 28*4 „
1907 .. 10,071 6649 2654 66 0 „ 25*3 „
1908 .. 11,370 7382 2890 64*9 „ 25*4 „
The loss rate is high ; the expense rate is low —among the
lowest in Australasia. This, however, isn’t necessarily a
good feature: a high loss rate and a low expense rate may
be due to insufficient and ineffective selection and super-
vision, and a co. that suffers that way is very liable to be
hit heavily when it isn’t looking. One other feature isn’t
too satisfactory ; among the assets credit is taken for
£2430 of outstanding premiums, and that looks far too
big in comparison with the year’s total. The paid capital
is £19,764. In proportion to risks (or, at least, premiums)
this is a large sum, and means good protection for the
insurers. Further, it and the reserves are practically all
in public securities, fixed deposits or cash, and therefore
instantly available.
• * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship
Co. (N.S. W.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £3092 6 per cent. =£3ooo £92 £8,793
June, 1905.. 2960 6 „ ~ 3000 8,753
Deb., 1905.. 3385 6 „ „ 3000 385 9,138
June, 1906.. 3053 6 „ „ 3000 53 9,191
Dec., 1906.. 5128 6 ~ ~ 3000 2128 11,319
June, 1907.. 6348 6 ~ „ 3000 3348 14,667
Dec., 1907.. 3247 6 ~ ~ 3000 . 247 14,914
Inne 1908 i 1831 6 ~ ~ 30001 945
June, J 908.. Written off, £2500. j
During the half-year the co. had labor troubles, and the
directors refer quite bitterly to workmen who strike
instead of going to the Arbitration Court. If they and
others had talked in the same way during 1904-5-6-7 the
papers and politicians wouldn’t have thrown mud at the
Arbitration Act and brought Arbitration into wholly un-
deserved contempt. They, however, encouraged every
irresponsible claquer to make a cock-shy of the Act, and
if in the end they found men striking instead of arbi-
trating they have only themselves to thank for it. The
table above shows, notwithstanding, a profit of
£lB3l. Really, however, as the £2500 shown as
written off has been taken from the repairs fund
to provide for depreciation, there was no net profit
at all, but a loss of £669, assuming that the
£2500 was necessary to cover the half-year’s wear and
tear. Still, on account of the special circumstances, that
is no guide to the future. Indeed, the co. has undergone
such great changes during the last few years that even
the average period of the past is no guide to the future.
This shows some of the changes :
Dec., June, Dec., June,
’O4. ’O7. ’O7. ’OB.
Ship property ~£41,300 £81,480 £78,850 £84,394
Freeholds, etc. .. 7,175 3,580 3,679 3,614
Plant .. .. 2,730 5,492 5,467 5,316
Liquid assets .. 66,157 34,218 35,586 29,050
Debts to public .. 5,569 7,105 5,668 8,129
Thus the book value of ship property has been doubled in
four years, and it is still growing. Still there was
plenty of room for expansion ; for many* years, in
fact, this co. was more of an investment than a shipping
concern. The risks nowadays are larger ; and so also
should the profits be. Hitherto reserves haven’t in-
creased rapidly ; but the co. appears to make very
liberal provision out of revenue to cover deprecia-
tion, so what reserves there are no doubt are
real reserves, and not a mere set-off against
worn-out capital ; and the same with the profits.
The co.’s share in a Newcastle coal-mining boom is mainly
indirect; it depends largely on the hewing rate. Thus
when that rate was down at the minimum of 2s. lid. in
1898, the co.’s dividend got down to nil for one half-year.
Apart from the coal industry, the agricultural back-
ground of Newcastle is of much importance to the co.
That explains the big profit figures for 1906-7—both
industries for once boomed simultaneously. The same
sort of luck can’t be relied upon, however, in the future,
though the increase of close settlement along the
northern line should help to brighten this co.’s prospects.
And the brightening will be all the more rapid when a
few of the vast absentee landlords of the north have been
urged to shift and make room.
* * * «
The Wellington Woollen Manufacturing
Co. (M.L.):—
Written To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £8,791 8 p.c. =£4281 £2500 £2OlO £19,301
1902 .. 10,773 8 ~ „ 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums on new shares .. 1413 23,850
1903 .. 9,065 8 p.c. = 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904 .. 9,130 8 „ „ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
1905 .. 3,950 6 „ „ 4800 2000 23,818
1906 .. 5,200 5 „ „ 4000 1000 200 24,018
1907 .. 6,708 6 „ „ 4858 1500 350 24,368
1908 .. 11,190 6 „ „ 5353 2000 3837 28,205
It is, as somebody remarked before, an ill wind that
blows nobody good ; and evidently the slump in the price
of wool has put a few much-needed pounds into this co.’s
pocket. “Much-needed,” for the real position isn’t as
good as it looks. Though £2OOO was written off to cover
depreciation last year, the average for some years past
has been less than that ; and depreciation of nearly all
factory machinery is rapid. The rush of invention is so
furious that, in order to keep level with his competitors,
a manufacturer has to be prepared to “ scrap ” a machine
even though it has been only three or four years in use.
Five years ago, this co.’s plant, buildings and land at
Petone were valued at £29,607 ; now they stand at £70,462.
If £2OOO was a fair thing to write off five years ago„it is
therefore a good deal less than a fair thing to-day. There
are also big risks in other directions. The co.’s assets of
all kinds (mainly* plant and stock) totalled £121,576 in
1903 ; the total is now £202,056. And the profit in this
insufficiently-protected industry has not moved up to cor-
respond with the increase of assets and risks. The work-
ing account profit five years ago showed £l2 14s. per
cent, on the total assets ; for last year (though it was an
unusually good year) it showed only* £ll 10s. per cent.
The liabilities to the public have advanced like this :
1903 .. £17,009 1906 .. £63,724
1904 .. 35,795 1907 .. 70,602
1905 .. 42,862 1908 .. 67,359
Meantime £14,655 has been raised by a 6 per cent. pref.
share issue—most of it during the past year, which
accounts for the recent shrinkage in liabilities to
the public. So far as ordinary* shareholders are con-
cerned, that is only one degree better than so much more
overdraft. In addition to the above-mentioned debt and
the new share issue, the co. has received £9071 on deposit
against possible calls ; five years ago this item was only
£2194. Altogether, then, though the sales appear to
show a fairly steady growth, the progress in that respect
doesn’t counterbalance the growth of the shareholders’
risks ; and so far as ordinary shareholders are concerned,
the position would not be as good as it; was five years ago
and thereabouts even if the past year’s profits could be
maintained But, especially if the Dominion manufac-
turer does not get better protection against the foreign
manufacturer of shoddy*, it is not probable that the past
year’s profits will be maintained during the slump that
almost for a dead certainty will happen to Maoriland
when J. Ward stops borrowing, either of his own free will
or because he has to.
* * ■ * *
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc.: —
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1899 .. £4,043 Nil £4,043 £7,500
1900 .. 6,555 Nil 6,555 7,500
1901 .. 5,569 Nil 5,569 7,500
1902 .. 12,299 Nil 12,299 7,500
1903 .. 6,319 Nil 6,319 7,500
1904 .. 6,438 5 per cent. = £2500 11,438
1905 .. 3,523 5 „ „ 2500 12,461
1906 .. 12,561 5 „ „ 2500 7,500 15,022
1907.. 17,033 10 ~ „ 5500 17,500 9,055
1908 .. 8,277 10 ~ „ 5500 11,832
And with that this other comparison ought to be read to
show where the money has gone :
1899. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Overdrafts .. £65,437 £22,544 £21,073 £37,616
Sundry creditors 6,680 2,809 7,933 3,993
Sundry debtors
(advances, fore-
closures, etc.).. 97,942 36,482 34,348 41,568
Freeholds (stores,
etc.) .. .. 10,718 38,894 61,712 69,623
Goodwill, plant .. 25,000 25,000 17,500 Nil
The co. did something heroic in the way of cleaning up,
and finished off by wiping out last year the whole of the
item “ Goodwill, plant, office furniture, etc.” Like nearly
all concerns of the kind, it was landed early in the
’nineties with a load of pastoral securities ; and having
pretty* well got rid of them, it turned its attention more
to the business of handling wool, etc. Hence the large
increase in the freeholds item, represented chiefly by
wool and produce stores, though at present extensive
additions in the shape of city offices are in progress.
What success it and the others will have in keeping out
of the pastoral finance business remains to be seen ; it is
tolerably easy to do it during good seasons, but the
temptation will come after a couple of bad ones. It will
be a case then of making (or refusing) a concession in
order to keep (or lose) the job of handling a client’s pro-
duce. Certainly on account of the steady increase in the
quantity of wool, etc., sold in Australia, there is less
temptation now for a wool-broking co. to go beyond
legitimate wool-broking. Almost every year makes it
easier for the cos. to make a living at the legitimate
business. In the past year this co., like most of the
others, suffered through the slump, which led to a big
proportion of the clip being lifted off the Australian
market. In addition it also struck bad luck in a law
action in which the other party was the Sydney City*
Council; no doubt that was the chief reason why, with
smaller earnings, the outgoings went up from £30,560 in
1907 to £33,630 in 1908. The co. is in 100,000 £1 shares
paid to 11s., of which Is. was called up a couple of years
ago.
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Dec., 1902 ..£6,453 7 p.c. = £3937 £2516 £7,990
June, 1903 .. 4,724 7 „ „ 4153 571 8,561
Dec., 1903 .. 6,495 8 ~ ~ 4997 1498 10,059
June, 1904 .. 5,366 7 „ „ 4408 958 11,017
Dec., 1904 .. 6,782 7 „ ~ 4768 2014 13,031
June, 1905 .. 5,484 7 „ ~ 4812 672 13,703
Dec., 1905 .. 7,229 7£ „ „ 5270 1959 15,662
June, 1906 .. 7,474 7 £ ~ „ 5465 2009 17,671
Dec., 1906 .. 8,014 7£ ■„ „ 5622 2392 20,063
June, 1907 .. 8,997 8 „ ~ 6000 2997 23,060
Dec., 1907 .. 10,307 8 „ ~ 6000 4307 27,367
June, 1908 .. 8,681 8 ~ „ 6000 2681 30,048
The capital has been steadily increasing. In 1901 it
stood at £106,250 ; in 1903 it was up to £121,070 ; in 1904
another 25,000 shares were sent to market,- and the full
£150,000 is now paid up. The authorised capital is, how-
ever, £500,000, so there is plenty of room for shareholders
to hope that there will be new issues—at par, of course—
in the future. At present, in spite of the growth of capi-
tal and reserves, the co. owes £24,815, of which £15,000
was raised by mortgage on land at Oyster Cove, bought
in 1906 to provide for new works when required. The
profit and loss account, which is a mere skeleton, simply
alleges that for the past half-year “ net profit on
sales of gas, etc., after allowing for reserve and
depreciation,” was £5937. The addition to the reserve
was £2744, making the total profit £B6Bl. That assumes
that enough is provided apart from the reserves to cover
depreciation. It is impossible to tell for certain what
this independent provision amounts to ; but it is appa-
rently something considerable. At December 31, 1907,
fixed investments (plant, mains, land, etc.) were in at
£188,603. They stand six months later at £186,710. So,
unless something has been sold meantime, the revenue
written off to cover depreciation in the six months was
£1893 plus the cost of all extensions and renewals made
during that time. Though the co. hides in its accounts
everything that can be hidden with any convenience at
all, it is pretty obvious that the position is extremely
comfortable, and that the 8 per cent, dividend causes it
no distress whatever.
* * * *
The Footscray Gas Co. (Vic.): —
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1903.. £8,528
1904.. £2055 6 per cent. =£1440 £539 £76 8,604
1905.. 2341 6 „ „ 1440 512 389 8,993
1906.. 2816 7 „ ~ 1680 608 528 9,521
Premiums on new shares 221 9,742
1907.. 2585 7 per cent. = 1757 897 9,673
Premiums on new shares 290 9,963
1908.. 3271 7 per cent. = 2031 751 489 10,452
In 1906 it was decided to issue 8000 shares (the paid
capital was then £24,000 in £1 shares). That year 4424
w'ere taken up at Is. premium ; in the past year, when
the balance were offered, 2342 commanded a pre-
mium of £290; and 1234 are still unissued. Of
the reserves, the bulk (£7114) is a fund to cover
depreciation of plant; funds are also included to
replace meters (£1600) and to provide for ordinary wear
and tear by paying for current renewals. Therefore,
beyond the premium capital (£511) and undivided profits
(£424), there are probably no true reserves ; for these
other funds appear to be merely a set-off against actual
depreciation ; that is to say, they merely replace capital
which is more or less worn out. There are, however, gas
cos. which don’t make even that provision. Business has
increased solidly during the last five, years : in 1903 neb
sales amounted to £6327 ; in the past year to £8399. The
increase of capital from £24,000 to £30,766 takes almost
all the gilt off that, though. The gross revenue was 26J per
cent, on the capital in 1903 and 27J per cent, last year, and
that leaves a very small percentage increase of net revenue.
The margin on which the div. was put up to 7 per cent,
was very small; and it continues very small indeed,
because, as pointed out above, the amount nominally
added to reserves has to cover general depreciation of
plant, meters, etc.
* * * *
The Launceston Gas 00. (Tasmania) :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £llll 4 p.c. = £lO5O £6l £5829
June, 1903.. 1328 4 „ „ 1050 278 6107
Dec., 1903.. 1584 4 „ ~1050 534 6641
June, 1904.. 1403 4 „ „ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904.. 1655 4 „ ~ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905.. 1315 4 „ „ 1050 500 7364
Dec., 1905.. 1147 4 „ ~ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906.. 1134 4 „ ~ 1050 84 7545
Dec., 1906.. 1550 4 „ ~ 1050 500 8045
June, 1907.. 1143 4 „ „ 1050 309 7829
Dec., 1907.. 1743 4 „ „ 1050 800 7722
June, 1908.. 1590 4 „ „ 1050 200 8062
This co. has the bad luck to have to compete against a
municipal electric supply in a town where it costs very
little to produce electric-power. Consequently the co.
makes no progress ; in fact, it is very doubtful whether it
has lately made enough profit, over the 4 per cent, dividend,
to fully cover depreciation. The fixed investment(plant,
buildings, etc.) is now £82,227 ; and even 1 per cent, on
that would call for £4ll a half-year. One of the co.’s
troubles is that it owes £35,453 on debentures; and
depreciation has to be provided on the debenture-
holders’ money as well as on the shareholders’. Most gas
cos. have not shown up too well during the last two years
of high coal prices ; but this co. had so small a margin to
work on that when coal advanced it had to put up the
price of gas—which must be a risky proceeding in view of
the keen electric-light competition.
*■*■*■*
The Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £651 Nil £651. £16,987
1902 .. 3239 10 p.c. =£2500 739 17,726
1903 .. 3300 10 „ „ 2500 800 18,526
1904 .. 5929 10 ~ ~ 2500 3429 21,955
1905 .. 4552 10 „ „ 2500 2052 24,007
1906 .. 3180 10 „ „ 2500 680 24,687
1907 .. 6599 10 „ „ 2500 4099 28,786
1908 .. 6396 ■ 10 „ „ 2500 £l2OO 2696 31,482
Twelve months ago £lO,OOO was appropriated for a
Repairs Fund, and £l2OO of it has now been spent
on special renewals. The reserves do not appear
to be wholly true reserves. Ordinary renewals are no
doubt treated as ordinary working expenditure ; but
there is depreciation which is not covered by current re-
newals. With a hotel of this sort it is not merely that
things wear out; they are liable to get out of date, and
some more modern contraption has to be substituted.
In the past year the refrigeration of the hotel has thus
had to be remodelled ; and this current year electric lifts
are superseding the hydraulic. The capital is £25,000 ;
and there are mortgages of £120,000. A few years ago,
the directors, having then £7500 on fixed deposit, wanted
to pay something off tne second mortgage ; but the mort-
gagee wasn’t willing. In the past year, however, £5OOO
has been cleared off ; and another £5OOO has now been
put aside for a mortgage redemption fund. (The co. had
fixed deposits of £ll,OOO on June 30.) The average rate
of interest is apparently higher now than it was : for the
12 months the interest paid was 5J per cent, of the
average amount of the mortgage. The shareholders’
risks are very solid. First, whether times are good or
bad, the concern must, for a start, earn over £6500 in
excess of working expenses for the mortgagees ; then the
shareholders’ capital and reserves have to stand the
racket of the depreciation not only of the assets which
represent their own funds, but also of those which repre-
sent the mortgagees’ £120,000. As mentioned above,
there is now a special renewals reserve. Before that was
established all renewals that became necessary were paid
for out of current revenue; wherefore in 1901 no less than
£6133 went that way (that was the year the “ winter
garden ” was made). From the accounts, of which the
table gives a summary, it looks as though there had been
a wonderful improvement in profits as between 1901 and
1908 ; but most of it is explained by the fact that what
was once paid for out of current revenue is now paid for
out of the special reserve, wherefore) though there has
been some improvement, a good deal of it is a mere
matter of book-keeping.
The Northern Tasmanian Permanent Build-
ing Society (Launceston, Tas.)
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. ■ serves.
1899 .. ±llBO2 7 p.c. = £1347 £455 £14,051
1900 .. 1782 7 „ ~ 1335 447 14,498
1901 .. 1595 7 „ „ 1462 133 14,631
1902 .. 1745 7 „ „ 1633 112 14,743
1903 .. 1733 7 „ ~ 1613 120 14,863
1904 .. 1612 7 „ „ 1501 111 14,974
1905 .. 1453 7 „ „ 1341 £2236 12,850
1906 .. 1122 7 „ „ 972 150 13,000
June) 1905 7 „ „ 1318 346 241 13,241
1908 ( Profit on sale of written-down assets, £1379 14,620
This society, having reached its 50th year, reckoned that
it was about time it had a house of its own ; wherefore in
the next comparison a premises item appears for the first
time :
1900. 1905. 1906. 1908.
Share capital .. £20,871 £17,323 £12,041 £15,613
Deposits .. .. 47,643 15,354 20,563 27,797
Other debts .. 216 Nil 444 Nil
Mortgages, etc. .. 82,537 43,958 45,753 52,396
Premises .. .. Nil Nil Nil 4,000
Cash, etc. .. 718 1,469 196 1,634
These figures show that there has been a general recovery
during the past 18 months, due, no doubt, to the high
price of wool and sheep, and perhaps even more to the
now-departed boom in metals, from which Tasmania
benefited very much while it lasted. There isn’t, how-
ever, any conspicuous sign of permanent recovery and
steady progress the steady progress that can
only come through the increase of small settlers
in the country, and the growth of manufactures
in the cities to correspond. Tasmania hasn’t yet adopted
measures that will keep its young* men. In 1902 there
were 108 - 15 males to every 100 females; in 19Q3, 107'65 ;
1904, 106-95 ; 1905, 106-58 ; 1906, 106'46. This steady
shrinkage of the proportion of males is a most distressing
feature ; while it continues, societies like this cannot
reasonably hope to prosper, though from special Causes
they may have flashes of prosperity. The reserves are
large, and that brings down the proportion to £1 of total
funds for every £ll4s. 6d. of advances on mortgage. The
deposits appear, therefore, to be very well protected.
Only a slump of about ss. 6d. in the £ could wipe out even
the reserves ; so that capital is fairly well protected, too
—unusually well protected, in fact, from a building
society point of view.
The Universal Land and Deposit Bank
(Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £456 6 pc. = £206 £250 £6239
June, 3903.. 2552 42 ~ „ 1442 1110 7349
Dec., 1903.. 385 6 ~ „ 205 180 7529
June, 1904.. 445 6 „ ~ 205 240 7769
Dec., 1904.. 622 6 „ „ 205 317 8086
Loss.
June, 1905.. £240 6 ~ ~ 205 7641
Dec., 1905.. 115 6 ~ ~ 205 7321
Profit.
June, 1906.. £9O 6 „ „ 205 7206
Loss.
Dec., 1906.. £2289 62 „ „ 2061 2856
June, 1907.. 82 Nil 2774
Dec., 1907.. 290 Nil 2484
Profit.
June, 1908.. £362 Nil 362 2846
This co. is in the time-payment land-subdivision busi-
ness ; and these days there doesn’t seem to be much
profit in it. At the end of 1905 there was a contingency
fund of £1592 to provide for possible losses on land sold
on terms. The losses have arrived regularly, and the
fund is down now to £95. There is still £23,977 owing by
land purchasers and borrowers, so the £95 looks as
though it might easily be overworked. The paid capital
is £6842 ; and the co. owes £14,940 to depositors and
£4363 on overdraft and otherwise. The cash in hand
amounts to only £3B. The position is therefore far from
strong ; though depositors will probably derive some
comfort from observing that there is £18,158 of uncalled
capital.
The Sydney Tobacco Co., formerly the New
York Tobacco Co., and before that again the New York
and Brooklyn Tobacco Co.: —
Writ-
ten To Re- De-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, licit.
Dec., 1898£2603 10 p.c. = £1625 £978 £ll4l
„ 1899 1520 30 ~ ~ 1500 20 1121
„ 1900 2111 10 „ „ 1500 611 510
Reserves
„ 1901 2318 10 „ ~ 1500 818 308
„ 1902 1432 10 ~ ~ 1500 240
Deficit.
„ 1903 445 5 „ „ 796 111
Loss.
„ 1904 1110 Nil £458 1679
„ 1905 1127 Nil 3274 6080
May, 1906 280 Nil 776 7136
Reserves
Capital written down from £17,500 to £8750.. 1614
Profit.
Dec., 1906 £238 Nil 238 1852
Loss.
May, 1907 241 Nil 146 1465
Profit. Deficit.
„ 1908 185 Nil 1718 68
There has been a frightful struggle during the past few
years. After half the capital of the old co. was lopped
off, a suspense account was left, reckoned in with reserves
in the foregoing. There followed a few months in which
a profit was shown ; then, however, the co. was up
against trouble again. What happened during those bad
times isn’t plain ; the figures given above are the nearest
that can be arrived at. The past year shows a profit,
which (with a small balance brought forward) leaves a
credit to profit and loss of £231. On the other side is a
paper asset, “ Trade marks, £279.” Wiping the latter
out we get the deficit of £6B. At the same time
what is left of the old suspense account —£1718 —
has been used to write down machinery, stock, etc. No
doubt on account of that writing down, no depreciation
has been charged against the past year’s revenue ; conse-
quently, the profit of £lB5 really gives a better view of
the position than the case merits. Lately a little pref.
capital has been got in, and more has lately been sought;
and it was hoped that thereby the business might be put on
a payable basis. As a little, independent, all-Australian
concern, it deserved well; but the competition of the huge
tobacco combination was too strong, and liquidation has
been resolved upon. The co. owes £2786 on mortgage de-
bentures ; and that is a bugbear which made the raising
of more capital difficult.
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. (Sydney):—
Pastoral-
ists’ Sub- Writ- Added
Loss on sidy re- ten to Re- Re.
Business, ceived. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902 ..£3732 £3222 £5OOO £63,407
June, 1903 .. 4366 3718 5000 57,759
Dec., 1903 .. 9494 5581 53,846
June, 1904 .. 7824 4028 . 50,050
Dec., 1904 .. 4367 4549 £lB2 50,232
June, 1905 .. 6315 3619 47,536
Dec., 1905 .. 4390 4529 139 47,675
June, 1906 .. 4229 4401 172 47,847
Dec., 1906 .. 4949 5663 714 48,561
1 r '
Profit.
June, 1907 .. £930 930 49,491
Dec., 1907 .. 103 103 49,594
Loss.
June, 1908 .. £4028 , 45,566
The story of this co. is part of the story which explains
why the public’s chop is so dear. It began in one of the
very cleverest schemes that have been hatched in
N. S. Wales ; and manager Alban Gee is said to have been
the man who did the hatching. Alban Gee came out to
Australia very many years ago as meat-packing expert to
a co. that did no good for itself. To provide himself
with a job, he suggested this co. —really a co-operative
concern, formed of the big meat-growers, whose business
in life is to get as much out of the Australian consumer


For Security
Stability
Economy
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
stands alone.
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Fraser g Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit 'metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
■*■*•**■
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
*-**-«-
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —•
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A copper smelting furnace, designed to embody
the recommendations of the best Australian and American
experts, has just been constructed for the Great Fitzroy
Gold and Copper Mines Ltd., Queensland. The furnace is
of large capacity, being capable of turning out 100 tons of
ore per day. It is rectangular in shape, and is higher
in column in proportion to its hearth area than is
customary. By this means both the roasting and
oxidising operations will be conducted in the same furnace,
the oxidising being done in the upper portion and the
smelting in the lower. The furnace has two tiers of mild
steel water jackets. The lower tier rests onac.i. plate,
supported on c.i. standards, or, should hearth plate be
removed, the tier will be swung on girders ; the upper
tier of jackets is always swung from girders supported on
columns. The columns are held together by a strong c.i.
frame. The air blast passes from a pipe encompassing
the furnace through Hustle pipes to the tuyeres. The
Austral Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne,
have designed and built this furnace.* [I
* * * *
The Insurance, Banking and Financial
Review, of London, in its August issue, commenting upon
the Society’s last annual report, writes :—“ At the period
in question, indeed, it was considered by some that the
Colonial Mutual was, to use an Americanism, ‘ trying to
bite off more than it could chew.’ Time has proved,
however, that if the then four-year old could go fast it
could also go sure, and its completion of £1,156,510 of
new Life business last year indicates that not only is the
energy of its younger days unabated, but that it retains
the confidence placed in it from the moment of its birth.”*
* -*• * *
Users of steam power will be interested to
know that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a depdt in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
* * * *
Cameron and Sutherland claim to carry the
largest stock of machinery of all kinds in Australasia, and
in support of this they ask all in want of mining-
machinery, motive power, lathes, drilling machines, and
mining supplies, to inspect the stock in their warehouses
in Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, and Bendigo. Quality
and price are right. Send for latest catalogue, post free.*
* * * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting. —We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* -t *■ *
The section of the American Fleet which has
arrived in our waters has eight battleships which are
fitted with the Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler.
Five of these ships are of the Connecticut class, including
the flagship itself. Engineers will be interested to note
that these five ships hold the record for economical
steaming from San Francisco. This is another strong
argumentinfavorof theadoption of the water-tube boilers
in the navy and the mercantile service, as not only do
they save fuel, but they economise in space and very
materially in weight.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle.. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
• * * *
The liquidator’s note of sale, by public auction,
of the machinery plant and stock of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Proprietary, Ltd., Williamstown, has
been withdrawn, the whole of it having been sold
privately to the well-known firm of Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, ironfounder, etc., Melbourne, who has removed
everything to his engineering works, Footscray.
Machinery merchants, engineers, mining companies, and
others interested are invited to inspect this plant, which
is now offered for sale at very low prices. Detailed
catalogues are being prepared and will be posted to any
address on application to Mephan Ferguson, head office
and engineering works; Footscray.*
* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street.
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison &Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS. —Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
* * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * #
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * * *
Ruston, Proctor and Co., Lincoln, are intro-
ducing a valuable addition to modern steam engine
practice. Their new engine—known as the Recke-Ruston
- —is of the Positive Gear Type, and the advantages
claimed for it are most important. Their high rotational
speed makes them very suitable for direct coupling to
electric generators, centrifugal pumps, fans, etc., and
they are specially adapted for the heaviest duty, such as
electric traction and general mine work. Those interested
should ask Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd.', 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, for their Catalogue No. 1465.*
LOHMANN <a COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS for
OTTOS AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlig, Cologne, as
'supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY.
Excavators and Dredging: Machinery.
as they can, and whose aim is, therefore, to keep the
Australian market from ever being very fully' supplied.
The cunning part of the scheme was in arranging that
this co. should always keep in the market, and prevent
stock values falling low —if they sag, up speaks this co.’s
buyer, and takes the beasts for export. The vicious part of
the scheme is that the co. gets from practically all the stock-
sellers a subsidy ; so that it actually' doesn’t' pay what it
bids. Therefore the man who outbids it has to outbid a
fictitious bid. Even then, notwithstanding the -subsidy
(the amount of which the co. carefully doesn’t mention
these days), the co. lost £4028 last half-year. In other
words, for what it did, buy it paid such a stiff
price that it could only sell the meat at a considerable
loss in foreign parts ; and yet the suppliers of the local
market could only get stock for their requirements by
bidding still higher than this co.’s stiff price. From the
point of-view of the stock-grower it is'a beautiful scheme;
but from the consumer’s point of view it is most malig-
nant. . Under the circumstances, the co., naturally
enough, doesn’t aim at dividends ; and there is no record
of any having been paid. In fact, the bigger the loss it
makes the bigger the shareholders’ profit may be ; because
the more* above the world’s price it,pays fbr, say, 20 per
cent, of the stock, the more the Sydney public has to
pay the stockowner for the other 80 per cent.
Two front-rank Australian industrial cos. are
considering an increase of capital—Tooth and Co. (Syd-
ney) and Elder, Smith and Co. (Adelaide). As both pay
10 per cent., the new issue will amount to a substantial
bonus. The operation in connection with Tooth’s, which
was foreshadowed here some time ago, will, it is under-
stood, be announced very shortly.
* • * * *
Broken Hill Block 14 tells a cheerful tale about
the discovery' of a lode 100 ft. wide in the old carbonate
workings: Those old workings are on the B. H. Proprie-
tary’s boundary, and in the old days' were scooped out in
Zeb Lane’s rough and ready fashion from near the sur-
face to some distance below the 200 ft. level. (The south
shaft, with which those workings are connected, was
originally started in the hanging wall of the vein, which
was cut at a depth of 64ft. After the shaft had continued
in the vein to a depth of 246 ft. the footwall was
entered. At the 146 ft. mark crosscuts put out
showed the lode 70ft. wide. The bulk of the
ore found in the drifts followed along the footwall and
hanging-wall averaged about 35 per cent, lead and 15oz.
silver, and the quality was even better as the Proprietary
boundary was neared. A block of ground just above the
200 ft. level carried 450 z. silver and 40 per cent. lead.
The present find is on the Proprietary boundary, and just
about the 200 ft. lev'el. If it goes down to. the 30l)ft. level,
Block 14 should keep the Port Pirie, smelters gojng for
some time with the carbonates to be forked out, and,which
are sold to the B. PI. Prop. ; while the sulphides (if any)
will help to feed a mill which at present is in danger
otherwise of going hungry for a long time to come.
But there is no certainty yet that the 100 ft. lode will go
down, or will prove more than a big “ wallow” of ore ;
for these carbonate bodies alway'S had a bad. habit of
being most irregular. But for that, indeed, Zeb Lane
wouldn’t have been likely to have missed this little-lot.
,i. * -* *■ ■ *
The last “earth tremor” that cracked up the
surface at Broken Hill Block 10 seems to have reminded
the directors, that they' some months, ago started a
shaft well out in the country rock, where creeps wouldn’t
trouble . anybody'. With commendable foresight they
have decided to complete this nk\V shaft to the 600 ft. ’
level, where it is connected to Harvey shaft by a cross-
cut. Harvey shaft is considered * to be fairly safe from
the 600fti level down ; and if any thing went wrong with
the upper portion, hauling could go on as usual, but at a
little greater expense, through the new shaft. The lode
at the 1465 ft. level remains rather narrow and uncertain,
but the ore broken is of good average value, going about
17Cwt. to the truck —which means that it will pan out all
right in the mill.
■» * * •*
Mount David (N.S.W.) has crushed 516 tons
for. about .375. per ton. This with concentrates and cya-
nide (312 tons of tailings for 540 z.) should pay' expenses.
The 300 ft. level has been prospected, but the payable
stone proved in the rise does not go far above the level.
An improvement at the end of No. 2 level from the winch
winze is expected. The lenses of payable stone are now
better understood than they used to be, but the reef is
erratic in size and,quality, so ore reserves and the true
value of the show itself are a dark mystery, which
development at depth from the new main shaft will help
to unravel.
A huge hole has been dug in Newcastle lately.
In the five years 1893-8 the district output of coal was
13,163,727 tons ; in the past five years it was no less than
24,523,814 tons, For a start, the seams were attacked at
the points'., handiest to the ocean ; but in that limited
area there are already numerous worked-out mines. The
Wickham and Bullock Island and Stockton are therefore
abandoned ; and others are now mostly hole where coal
used to be. The result has been the re-opening of old
mines and the taking up of new coal-lands. During the
last few months the Young Wallsend, owned by the
A.J.S. Bank, has been started again after years of idle-
ness ; the Lymington, formerly the South Wallsend
and Cardiff, is being energetically developed by
a new co, which took oyer a long-idle colliery' from
the Commercial Bank of Australia; and. further in, the
North Greta is being opened up as the Whitburn by the
Newcastle Coal Go. Other companies have gone out to
the Maitland field. But, in many respects, the most in-
teresting of the new developments is the taking over of
an area at Wybung Head, 25 miles south of Newcastle, by
the Mine, Smelter and Engineering' Co., which, having
carried through preliminaries, is now arranging for the
opening-up of the seams there. The nearest mine to the
Wybung Head area is the English-owned Wallarah.'
Some sort of an idea of the magnificent wealth
of the coal-beds along the N. S. Wales coast can be got
by noting the fact that the principal seam worked by
the Wallarah, 60 miles or so north of Sydney,
is supposed to be identical with the seam,
worked at Bulli, nearly the same distance south of
Sydney. Along the coast line for some distance south of
Wallarah this fine seam forms part of the cliffs—from
2ft. 6in. to 9ft. of fine bituminous coal, which, so far,
hasn’t been even touched, except in the one mine. And
while what is identified as the Bulli seam is worked at the
Wallarah colliery, the mine also has the Great Northern
seam, which is worked at Newcastle by the Pacific,
Rhondda, and other collieries. Some day, perhaps, when
a few hundred million tons more of this Northern coal
has been dug ouf, the holders of these lands down along
the coast south from Newcastle will start boring to see
whether they can’t also pick up Newcastle’s famous Bore-
hole seam. So far, this hasn’t been followed far south
from Newcastle ; probably' at ;25 miles south they would'
ha,ve to go down 1500 ft. to get it. And ; there isn’t much
temptation to do that so long as they can practically
dig the mineral out of the cliffs.
*
C.S.A. is a Cobar (N.S.W.) district show, which
G. H. Blakemore, of Great Cobar, got his friends to give
a trial, in the belief that if it was anything at all it was
something big. Under the big leached gossan some rich
oxidised ore was found, and that helped on development;
but there vvas less of it than might have been expected,
and now that they are down into the sulphides there is less
value in them than had been expected too. Still, being
basic, they have a special value, just as Chesney has a
special value to Great Cobar; and, as suggested here
some months ago, the chances are that some day
or other C.S.A. will be bought by Great Cobar.
As funds were running out—they had got down to
£1921 by the middle of August—shareholders met
three weeks back and endorsed the directors’
proposal to make five calls of 6d. each, the first this
month. The money will be put mostly into crosscuts,
and it is hoped that, as chairman Blakemore puts it, they
will “ demonstrate beyond all doubt a body of basic ore
that will reach to 200,000 tons.” That done, the directors
will no doubt begin to talk to Great Cobar. It has been
denied, certainly, that the ore in the bottom of the big
mine is more silicious; but Cobar ores run that way, and
a basic ore proposition like the C.S.A. isn’t likely to be
passed by when it offers. And, besides being of the right
character, it isn’t by any means poor stuff either ; proba-
bly the average would run 3 per cent., and bores lead one
to expect more. The principal workings are at 560 ft. ;
but development has also started at 660 ft. There are
60,000 shares in the present co., 24,484 of them fully paid
to £1 and 35,516 paid to 9s.
*■*■**•
Queen Bee (N.S. W.) showed a loss of £llO6 last
half-year; but £10970f that was on account of depreciation,
and another £1435 was spent on mine development and
charged to ordinary working expenditure. On June 30
the co. owed 414151; on the other side there was copper
in hand (since realised), £4729. As better and cheaper
work is done by the small blast furnace than by the
reverberatories, it was decided some time ago to put up a
big water-jacket furnace ; but after going part of the
way the directors jibbed at the further expense, and the
business is hung up until the market improves. If No. 5
level opens up as satisfactorily as it promises, this inter-
rupted work ought to be completed—either that or the
mine should be shut down. Reverberatory costs are over
Bs. a ton heavier than those of even the toy blast furnace ;
and there,seems very little sense in pursuing the present
policy of using up the ore to feed a wasteful plant. '
* * * •
Gilmore (Q.) balance-sheet for the half-year
ended July 27 shows that 1557 tons were crushed
in that period for 190 tons black tin, which sold
for £10,752, an average of £6 Us. Bd. per ton of ore.
Mining costs ran into nearly £3 17s. 6d. per ton, which
would have been ruinous if tin hadn’t averaged well over
£l3O per ton. The directors complacently remark that
to date they have paid £20,850 in dividends. As the cash
in hand amounted to only £895, it would have
been more to the credit of their business sagacity if
they had that remark about dividends in the
back ground.- They also reported that the Midas stope
.(the main ore body qf the mine) proved somewhat disap-
pointing, but they were sanguine that when the shaft was
deepened good ore would be cut. Since that was written,
however, the manager has wired, recommending that the
stope be stopped, as the stuff barely paid the expenses of
crushing and carting. The 90 tons of seconds will
certainly have to be sold to pay current expenses.
Some of it contains zinc and lead, and all of it
copper, and the smelters don’t love the combination.
One big firm of foreign buyers refused to touch the stuff
lying at KoorbOora at all, and John Moffat has been ex-
perimenting for the last 18 months to find an effective
method of treatment. Three months ago good faces of
ore were showing everywhere ; to-day, by reason of in-
sufficient prospecting in a patchy mine, there isn’t enough
to keep five head going for a month. There is not a
crosscut in the mine, and the whole policy of the direc-
tors seems to have been to gouge out the ore as quickly
as possible and pay dividends.
* • • •
“ Colebrook ” Rae has no cause to complain of
the grade of the ore at Wilcock’s Gloncurry (Q.), where he
is smelting 20 per cent, stuff. What he appears to need
is more sulphide. The last return was 46‘8 tons of copper
as white metal from 100 tons of 35 per cent, sulphides
and 120 tons of silicious oxides. That is a recovery of 21
per cent. And, now 100 tons of picked ore is being
hurriedly sept to Gloncurry for shipment to keep the pot
boiling. , ,
* * * *
Shareholders in the Mitchell River Gold and
Antimony Co. (Q.) met up north, the other day, and
listened to this from the directors Your Board finds
itself with a costly plant specially designed to treat ore
by a patent process, about which very little is known
except to the patentees, Messrs. Macarthur and Co.,
Glasgow. The representative engaged by them to erect
the plant and demonstrate its suitability cleared out at
the moment when everything was ready to commence
operations. Macarthur and Co. have cabled offering to
secure another expert from England, but this will occa-
sion further delay.” The directors had an idea that it
might be best to engage a local metallurgist to finish the
tests, but the shareholders decided to throw all the respon-
sibility on the Glasgow people who sold them the pro-
cess—and who, by the way, put £5OOO cash into this
co. It was understood that the co. was about down to
its last copper ; but apparently nothing was done at the
meeting in the way of making new financial arrange-
ments. Also the question remains unanswered, “ Why
did Maearthur’s representative quit without testing the
completed plant?” The only suggestion offering is that
he had a poor opinion of the show, and wasn’t prepared
to risk having his firm’s process declared a failure on a
mine which didn’t, he reckoned, have the elements of
success in it.
• * • *
No. 7 level in the New Brilliant Freehold,
Charters Towers, after passing through blank ground,
has better prospects for gold and mineral. This improve-
ment arrived with an intrusion of diorite in the granite
formation, which is regarded as a favorable sign. The
level continues nearly parallel to the East Mexican
boundary, with, if anything, a slight trend in towards the
Mexican ; wherefore a make of good stone some 400 ft.
along the Ifevel is of importance to both mines. Prospects
of Brilliant Block 800 ft. ahead are also improved, although
they are still highly speculative. The East Mexican
rejoices over an improvement in No. 6, which is being
driven from Mills’ United boundary; but the upper levels
(Nos. 5 and 4) will have to be proved before the E. Mexi-
can can consider itself a mine. No. 6 is merely a guar-
antee of backs for the Freehold. No. Bin the latter should
soon be in the thick of the shoot, if it is there, and the
levels from .Mills’ United boundary on the hanging wall
reef should give additional interest to mine reports. A
break-up of the reef in Nos. 6 and 7 has more than once
frightened a sensitive market.
* * * # ‘
A circular issued in London last month by the
Associated Northern Board states, on the authority of
Manager Roberts, that recent developments have been
discouraging, and that most of what is left of the shoot
appears to be heavily mineralised rock of low value, carry-
ing seams of payable ore. Roberts is unable to say how
long the present milling grade of Bdwt. can be main-
tained, but promises to give a definite opinion later on.
The circular also mentions that, after payment of the
interim dividend of 2s. per share on July 3, the cash and
liquid securities equalled 9s. 4d. per share. Then there is
the “profit in sight” and the value of the plant and
equipment to be taken into account as well.
*-*•**
After a long silence shares in Kalgoorlie Amal-
gamated (W.A.) were quoted from London at a nominal
figure the other day. This co. clings to a group of leases
on the Kalgoorlie field, and the Hannan’s Croesus (which
once glittered with gold) and Block 45 (where telluride
was first discovered by Holroyd) are included in its holding.
For years past the property has been worked on the
rooting system by tribute parties,, and, as ends are made
to meet in this way, J. Bull, who put up the cash in the
first instance, appears to be quite satisfied.
» * * *
A recent London quote of 6s. 6d. gave Chaffers
(W.A.) a market valuation of £165,000. This is more
than 50 per cent, greater than that of the Golden Ridge,
with its two years’ reserves and quarterly distributions of
£6000; it is ahead also of the Gwalia South, which pays
Is. 6d. a quarter, and has a substantial dividend value in
sight. Evidently those who gambled in Chaffers at the
price mentioned did not care a hang about such things as
mine valuation, profit in sight, etc. They simply backed
the market against the mine, and present quotes show
that they fared rather badly.
* * * *
It is now estimated that Gwalia South has
25,150 tons of 5Ss. ore in sight above the No. 4 level, and
15,000 tons of prospective reserves, worth 60s. per ton
below that point. Bulking these two estimates, and
reckoning costs at £1 per ton, this gives a probable profit
in sight of £128,292 ; but from this has to come develop-
ment expenditure, which, in view of contemplated shaft-
sinking and other work, is likely to be large. Still the
percentage of profit in sight, based on the official figures,
is good. Between the 400 ft. level and where the main
shoot enters the Sons of Gwalia, it is estimated that an
additional 15,000 tons of average grade ore should be
obtained, and then there is also the new make of ore now
being opened up 385 ft. west of the main shoot at the No. 3
level. The management reckons that this body will con-
tinue right to surface, and for several hundred feet below
300 ft. it follows the lead of the main shoot, and passes
into the Sons of Gwalia.
*■**.*
On July 28, a day before the further issue of
20,000 half-crown shares, Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.)
published in London that a 49Jft. reef, worth 395. per
ton, had been struck somewhere in the property. This
looked a mighty providential discovery; but then some-
thing had to be done to place the scrip, and the co. had
its bad old tradition to live down to. Later on it will
probably leak out that the assayed specimen is an orphan,
and that unfortunately the bulk assays are not so good.
Nevertheless, it is claimed that the mine is now being
worked purely in the interests of shareholders, and that
the sliming plant now being installed will make all the
difference between failure and success. So many false
reports have, however, been spread about the capabilities
of the property in the past that it is hard to get anybody
to believe in it nowadays.
* * * *
Fingall (W.A.) is to be tested for at least
another 1000 ft. below the No. 13 level before “ skying the
towel.” The reef goes down all right, but values have
tailed off in the last few hundred feet of sinking. Other
new work includes the prospecting of the West Fingall
reef at depth, and a general hunt round for fresh bodies
of ore.
* * * *
Oroya-Black Range (W.A.) still looks promising
at depth : 300 ft. of good ore has been exposed at the
No. 4 level, and a winze sunk 70ft. on the underlay below
that point also tells a satisfactory tale. The vacuum
slimes-plant recently erected on this mine is making a
name for itself, treating stuff worth from a little under to
a little over loz. at a low cost, and leaving less than a
shilling’s worth of gold per ton in the residues.
Flag Gold and Copper Co. (W.A.) is stuckffor
ready money. About two-thirds of the 100,000 ss. shares
are still held in reserve, and, in order to raise the wind,
holders of the issued shares are entreated to buy more.
Since its formation last year the co. has recovered 18560 z.
of gold bullion, 25000 z. of silver, and 62| tons copper ;
but the proceeds, together with £8237 share sales and
£5OO raised by mortgage, have been swallowed, and when
the accounts closed on June 30 the co. wanted, allowing
for cash and ore on consignment, about £2OOO to wipe off
outstanding liabilities. Against this the co. values its
“ immovable property ” (leases, development work, etc.)
at £7336, and “ movable property” (mostly plant, etc.) at
£2469. But, after all, the true worth of assets like these
is their auction value, and nothing more. With sufficient
capital to work on, the Flag might ultimately earn money
for shareholders ; but, if it continues to struggle on as at
present, it must soon go under.
* * * *
Great Northern Extended Consols, Ruther-
glen (Vic.), looks as though it had missed the ’bus—or
taken the wrong one. This is not for lack of effort, for
£168,000 has been put into the mine. The wash has
always been just under the pay mark, though a good
mine was on either boundary. The poor results have
been a bigger puzzle than those from any other show in the
district; it seemed odd that values should peter out once
the lead got inside the boundary fence. With a bit of
cash in hand, the co. has lately gone boring west, and has
hit deep ground and a big field of wash. Should this be
the Southern lead it will mean that shareholders have
been paying calls and losing money on either a tributary
or a high portion of the gutter. The co.’s shares, there-
fore, are a neat little gamble.
Birthday Tunnel, Berringa (Vic.), having a slab
of undeveloped ground north of the mine, is going to sink
anew shaft further along the line of lode. AH over the
Berringa field gold peters out both at depth and away
from the faults. Hence the wisdom of the knowing crowd
that sanctions this new work. Outside the Tunnel there is
not a mine paying a div. at Berringa. The stone runs just
under the pay mark.
* m * *
Long Tunnel, Walhalla, has struck stone at
3070 ft. vertical, so Walhalla is beaming once more. While
it is too soon to say what the strike means, a few things
are evident. First, the golden stone is away north of
the Extended boundary. Does that mean that the normal
pitch of theshoot has been resumed, and theshootis getting
away from the Extended? Then the stone is against the
diorite, whereas at the bottom of the old, blind north-
west shaft the crosscut showed no dyke. Moreover, stone
against the dyke, and with plenty of needle pyrites, has
always carried the best gold. Work has to be done to
prove the make ; but those are the points to carry' in the
mind in following developments.
• * * *
The Tasman and Crown option to the Mt. Lyell
Co. having been blown out, the directors are “ fluting ”
about £7OOO cash in hand and a scheme to raise £50,000
additional. If the show has the alleged 200,000 tons of
high-grade lead and copper ore in sight, there won’t be
need to rope in Bull and his cohorts. Outside the direc-
tors and a few of the sanguine sort, the difficulty is to find
anyone “ taking on ” any such estimates. Dunster, chair-
man of directors, is flirting with the Zeehan smelter over
a contract to handle up to 500 tons weekly'. The Germans
smile ; they know the size of the Tasman ore-body, and
so they have not left off pressing for a loan" from
the Government because the Tasman offers to throw a
swagger lot of ore their way. What would settle all doubt
would be for the Lyell people to let .the world know the
result of their sampling of the Tasman and Crown. Dun-
ster might get it on application, though the chances are
he wouldn’t. And it is at least possible that he doesn’t
want it very much.
♦ * * *
Kingaroy : Probably stable enough, but it has
got a stiff hill to climb yet before it comes abreast of
some others Jobber: Better stay where you are and
wait for a recovery C. Reader : Those Trustee shares
look a very safe investment; and they ought to be con-
sidering the return Bob Plumb ': South British or
Queensland.
* * * *
C.H.M.: (1) Don’t know that particular society;
(2) depends wholly on their management C. Reader:
Don’t recommend either, unless y'ou can keep in constant
touch with the market. If you want safety, you wijl
have to take something that gives a smaller return
Dexter : Yes, very well protected.
* * * *
Perth papers announce the third reconstruction
of the Great Ophir, but how much cash has been actually
subscribed is not stated. It is now proposed to scrap
most of the miscellaneous treatment plant, and substitute
a small stamp mill; but as past crushings have proved
such a frost, the engagement in the first place of a trusted
expert to report on the real value of the ore in the mine
would be more fitting.


ihorlhand, Typewriting. BooK.
Steeping, Correspondence. Business
(Arithmetic, Commercial Caw. Electrical
Engineering. Mechanical Engineering.
Architecture and Building Construction,
Freehand Drawing. £.c.. and we coach by
Post for all Examinations.
Wrlf for "HOME STUDY." Pott Froo
SfofUffoare’s
Business College |
Moore S? Sy dr? B.C.
There are woods of high mercantile value,
Bare woods of great beauty and price,
And woods of such close grain and hardness,
As resist all white ants, rats, and mice.
But the Woods of all woods to be lauded
(You all will agree, 1 am sure),
Is the Woods to whom mankind’s indebted,
For the only Great Peppermint Cure.*
A GREAT LAW SUIT DECIDED.
The Supreme Court, the People, have decided that Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery wins against coughs and colds.
Price is. Cd. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
Mrs. Hardy, Specimen Hill, Bendigo,
says: —“I can thank Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy for saving the life of my little girl, when
she had a severe attack of croup.”*
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
COUNTRY TYPES.—THE HINDU
HAWKER.
“ Swamper ” : It seems to me that “ Ida
F. D.” is mixed (6/8/’08) on the subject of
“ namma holes” and “night wells.” A “ nam-
ma ” is simply a hole in the rock which catches the
rain. It is no more a spring than is a water-tank.
If you take water out of a namma hole, and there-
by lower the level—well, the level just stops
lowered until the next rain falls, even as occurs in
the case of the ordinary family fluid-butt. The
nammas range in size from indentations re-
sembling the jam-tins “Ida” mentions to
cavities that hold thousands of gallons of
the element dipsos, and Domainiaes abhor. As
to shape, they aren’t all round by any
means. In fact, the majority are long, narrow
slits running off to a sharp point at either end.
With regard to the night wells mentioned by
“Ida,” I think she must mean “soaks.” A soak is
found at the base of large granite rocks, and is
formed by a basin of granite below the surface of
the surrounding country, filled with sand, into
which the water which falls on the exposed parts
of the rock drains and is absorbed. The natives
sunk holes, and therefrom got good drinking
water. The phenomenon of the rise and fall of
what “Ida E. D.” calls night wells may be
observed in any sandy-bottomed creek in a hot
country during the summer time. In the early
morning there is a fair trickle of water, but by
midday just a drop in a pothole here and there.
“Sam W. Gum”: “Ida F. D.” (Bul-
letin 6/8/’08) is correct in stating that “ namma ”
holes are to be found in plenty in the various
rocks east of the rabbit-proof fence (W.A.). But
I differ as to their being “ little round holes filled
with water, which never sinks and never over-
flows.” I am personally acquainted with
namma holes near the Goldfields railway
line, between Southern Cross and Kalgoorlie,
which measure 50ft. deep and 4ft. in diameter.
Unlike those “Ida E. D.” knows, they only
contain water during rainy weather. The yarn about
baling water all day long from namma holes the
size of jam-tins without the supply diminishing I
am impelled to stigmatise, despite my respect for
Ida’s sex, as arrant and abject piffle.
“Kodak” writes about a, dog called
Murphy (since deceased): —
Once, when I was a boy, I owned half a dog. The
other half was owned by my chum. He kept the dog
and X christened him—called him Murphy in defiance of
all precedent, and trained him so well that he refused to
answer to his baptismal name of Carlo, but bounded with
delight and hilariously climbed fences at the slightest
whisper of his Celtic nickname. As a dog Murphy was a
woolly failure, but as an entertainment he was magnifi-
cent. We tw’o boys never had a dull moment so long as
we were with the dog, and the dog, for his part, never
looked bored while we remained in sight. It was a
halcyon time for all three while it lasted, but all times
and all dogs must come to an end, and Murphy arrived at
his conclusion while he was yet young. He went into
retirement in rural parts very early, and spent his last
days waiting in ambush for rabbits that never came, or
saw him first and went the other way.
Whenever we were starting on an expedition we
never allow'ed Murphy to come out of the gate with us,
but instead rushed out when he w'asn’t looking, slammed
the gate after us, shrieked “ Murphy !” in the lane, and
fled. Back in the yard would sound a series of mad yelps
and a horrifying crash of palings. This was Murphy
doing his great fence-climbing act. (The landlord wit-
nessed the performance from a top window one day, and
it roused him to a state of frenzied enthusiasm.) Gene-
rally, Murphy brought down a paling or so with him and
rushed after us with about a bushel of splinters in his
tail.
Sometimes we took him out on a heavy chain about ten
yards long and played fire brigades. One of the firm
would haul him to the top of the quiet suburban streel;,
while the other partner repaired in haste to the bottom.
Murphy, panting and glaring, would struggle joyously
with whichever one of us was holding him in leash, until
from afar off a shrill scream of “Murphy! Murphy !
Murphy!!’’ rent the decorous atmosphere of East Mel-
bourne (Vic.). Then with an enormous, insane bound,
Murphy would tear off down the thoroughfare, 10yds. of
heavy chain clashing and jangling behind him. He was
the most enthusiastic beast I ever saw, with a mania for
being everywhere where he wasn’t, and of getting there
with lunatic haste. As he whirled past in a cloud of
dust, people used to rush to their gates and
shout uselessly—as they do whenever a danger-
ous bolt happens and life is in deadly peril. It was
a most awe-inspiring performance, and Murphy used to
enjoy it keenly, and testified in the usual way by wagging
his tail nearly off when he arrived at the calling partner.
To us boys, of course, it was joy unspeakable.
Murphy’s finest impromptu was the night when he
killed a rat in the gutter. I can’t imagine how the rat
came to be so slow, but I have an idea it had come out to
the gutter to breathe or die or something, and had
fallen asleep. Our first intimation of Murphy’s triumph
was a fearful snuffling and snorting at the mouth of a
drain whieh ran from a private house. The scuffling con-
tinued for about five minutes, and, when at last we
investigated, we found Murphy half-crazed with con-
ceit and joy, wagging and growling over a defunct
and dilapidated rat. One of us picked up the rat
by the tail and we started home in a great
state of excitement to relate the adventure. (Murphy
had never before been known to catch anything.) Our
way lay past a church which, it being 7.30 p.m. and a Sab-
bath evening, was lighted up and filled with worshippers.
The organ was softly playing, and the sound rolled
out of the lighted portal in a delicious volume. All
three of us listened reverently for a minute or
so, and then the lighted doorway struck me
as a beautiful place for a dead rat to lie in,
and with a mighty fling I cast the de-
ceased right into the porch. Murphy,
with one convulsive leap, broke from
my chum’s grasp and fled after his
treasure. He rushed into the perch
like a fiend, snatched the rat up in his
mouth, spun round as if confused and
streaked up the centre aisle, straight
for the altar! We waited to see no
more, but fled breathlessly round the
corner, and listened behind a tree-
guard. For the space of perhaps
twenty seconds the organ played on
serenely ; but suddenly, at the apex of
a great Amen, it stopped with a jerk,
and a howl of agony shattered the
sacred stillness into 5,000,000 frag-
ments. Two seconds later, Murphy
shot past our place of concealment,
closely pursued by a fat verger, three
hymn-books, and a brass collection plate.
Now the church to whose harvest
thanksgiving he contributed his rat has
been sold for taxes. Murphy himself
is yelping* in the shades. And I and my chum are old and
solemn. Alas ! the Joys of Youth !
*** . *
“ H.W.” : Be “ Mopane’s” inquiry as to
long-distance rides. In 1897 Trooper J. McDonald,
of Peak Hill (W.A.) police, rode a flea-bitten
grey gelding, bred by T. Elder (S.A.), a distance
of 275 miles in 3£ days. The first 120 miles were
covered in 17 hours, with one hour for spell.
(McDonald was after a couple of murderous
Afghans who were mounted on camels.) The
trooper’s weight, with regulation saddle, bridle,
rugs, tucker, firearms, etc., was list. 81b. He
was accompanied by a native tracker; but the
latter gave up on the third day. McDonald went
on alone, and duly nabbed his men. His horse
was sold by the Department at auction, in 1907,
for £l, and, although over 20 years old, it still
does good work as a stock horse. It was, and is,
a noted “ambler.”
* * * *
“Boronia”: “Groper” (B. 6/8/’08) is
right as to the leathery toughness of the Westra-
lian brumby. But can he tell me where in Wes-
tralia at the present time the said brumby is to be
found ? He alleges that the banks of the Black-
wood River are the brum’s favored haunts. They
used to be; but the toughest thing in Australian
horseflesh grazes there no longer. I’ll guarantee
that “Groper” could explore for days over the
tract of country mentioned and never get a
glimpse of one. It is the same with the Donnelly
country. Years ago it was almost alive with wild
horses ; but ruthless slaying on the part of the in-
habitants has told its tale, and to-day it would be
a rare occurrence to see one roaming around
there. What a sight it was years ago to view a
mob of a hundred of them go galloping madly
by, with their long, bushy tails slaying the flies as
they went ! Alas ! those days are ended. I was
recently speaking to an aged criminal who had
been for many years shepherding sheep along the
Donnelly River. He confessed that he had often
assassinated with a shot gun as many as. 12
brumbies in a day. It makes me wild to think
that that person’s sentence ever expired. He
should have got 95J years with two hangings.
STARVATION NO RECOMMENDATION.
TRAVELLER : “ Gimme a job, boss. I ain't had
anything to eat for a week.”
COCKY : "No dashed fear! D’ yeh think I want
t' be eaten outer house 'n home?”
“ Caber ” muses
The dispersal of the Maryvale (Q.) stud of draughts,
preparatory to Maryvale estate being foisted on Kidston,
carried me away back to the early’sixties, what time the
horse-teams were competing with the lordly bulloeky for
the haulage business between Limestone and the interior,
It was then the Maryvale AW brand came into promi-
nence. Squat, long-headed, and roach-backed were the
good horses that bore it. Not one of the Grand Duke or
Iron Duke strain was ever known to refuse a steady
hang on the collar, even at the seventh time of
asking. And those were days when the jibbing equine-
team abounded The brand took and as high as £SO
would be swiftly offered for anything marked with it.
What sure indicators those old brands were ! When we be-
strode a horse bearing the “stirrup-iron” brand (it was a
“ wine-glass,” the Bukhulla breed) we could depend on
having a rattling piece of horseflesh under us. And when
we tackled an IMD (Texas) we tightened the girths, mar-
tingale and crupper with careful rigidity to keep the
atrocity from bucking through the entire outfit. The
“ devil’s claw ” brand had such a name for cussedness
that you could buy the pick for a quid, while the
“ Clinker” breed (Helidon) were never known to buck.
Verily, the brand told the old-timer as much as any vet.’s
certificate could, and it was a blank sight more reliable.
* » * *
Minister for Lands Bell, though he knows
more than most people about Queensland, admits
that he hardly knew the first
thing about the Gulf country
between Burketown and
Camooweal, which are 240
miles apart. On each side of
Beane’s Brook and the peren-
nial Gregory River there is
excellent soil and fine oppor-
tunities for irrigation ; yet,
except for the Gregory Downs
pub, there is not a solitary
house in a day’s ride. The
garden at the hotel is irri-
gated from the Gregory, with
splendid results. The Lawn
Hills railway line will help
to draw attention to this
tract, though it will not go
nearer than 25 miles. And
even the Lawn Hills line isn’t
a certainty. A co. which
holds a big mineral area has
got the right to build the
railway, but whether it will go
on with the work depends upon the luck it has in
the prospecting shafts, etc., that are now being
sunk.
* * * •
“ Ganesha ” : The Victorian cocky has
been banged in a tender spot. His idol is shat-
tered. Cow has proved a joss with distinct
limitations. Has not his worship of the Golden
Heifer been long and faithful ? Has he not ruth-
lessly immolated his wife and children and em-
ployees, male and female, on her altar ? Cow asks
for more. She needs things that cost money, which
makes her conduct all the more uncalled for. The
idol accepted the oblations, but was not satisfied.
She wanted food. She wanted drink. And now,
last straw, she expects shelter in the winter. In
Broadmeadows Shire, out of 71 dairy farms, an
official inspector found only one where the cows
were housed and hand-fed in the winter. The
exception yielded six and a half quarts per day.
Plain cow averaged only three quarts. It looks
like a judgment. The cocky hates these new-
fangled notions. Give him the good, old-
fashioned cow that didn’t require hors-d’ceuvres
and a paper napkin at dinner. As Moses com-
manded, he turned his Golden Calf into
skim milk as soon as possible, keeping back
the cream for the butter factory, and took
no further interest in the animal. Other times,
other manures. The author of this sorry scheme
of things has achieved only a partial success with
his cow. It is good in parts, but spotty, leaving
room for improvement. The cocky needs a
sensible animal, an improved cow, built to suit
his special requirements. This efficient cow
would yield 60 quarts per day, milk herself (sav-
ing thereby the parasitic milker’s 15s. and tucker),
turn out factory butter in the dear season, endure
impartially heat and cold, revel in filth, rejoice in
starvation, live cheaply during the winter m a
state of nature out in the scrub, and never call
the attention of an inspector. The efficient cow
would supplv a long-felt want of cockydom.
“Billy T.” : There had
been a heavy flood at Overflow.
It was a hot day when there was
not a flood at Overflow. This
was a hot day, and as we drove
along the string of puddles
that might have been
a road or a river, we
noticed all about us,
in the shape of drift-
wood and cow car-
cases, evidences of
the severity of the
recent inundation.
Presently we came
upon a man perched
on a high gum-butt
near the track. The
tree had been a
giant, and had been
cut off about Oft. up.
On the flat top, with
his back to the
central strand of
timber where the
stick had torn away,
the percher rested,
with his chin on his
knees. He seemed
to be sleeping, and
we passed him by.
Coming back by
moonlight, eight
hours later, we
noticed, with some
amazement, that the
man was still up the
stump, and George
drew the waggon
alongside, and
prodded him with
the whip-handle. At the
third prod the man aloft
awoke, and yawned copiously. “What
the deuce are you doing there?” said George.
The man looked at him dully. George repeated
his polite query. “I’m ’ere outer ther flood—
whatcher think ?” said the man. “ But, hang it,
the flood subsided three days ago.” “Hid it?
said the man. He peered curiously over the edge
of his stump. “Well, I’m blowed!” he said.
Then he yawned, and settled down once more.
“No matter,” he said, “they’s bound to be
another pretty soon.”
“M.W.” : One of Australia’s bush curio-
sities of to-day is the “ rabbit-band,” back in the
Haunted Mountains, Gippsland (Vic.). The
origin of the band is said to have been due to a
local cocky, who got it into his head that _he could
scare all the rabbits off his land by attaching bells
to the necks of a few of them. He attached ; but
the other rabbits promptly chased their belled
sisters and from the farm to the hills.
and quarantined them there. Since then, district
humorists have made “the mysterious bells” a
thrilling and awe-inspiring attraction to city visi-
And one can get a thrill whilst listening to
f . , 8
them, too ; for in the oppressive, trag gg
ness of the haunted atmosphere at dusk, one
requires no imagination to hear the bells playing
eerie tunes that are as full of creeps as a pork-
G erman and crayfish supper. One belated road-
traveller to Warragul recently stated that he spent
. , ,
an hour and a half trying to locate the family of
bellringers who were playing God have the
King” in the dense bush. When he gave up the
c hase he found that his horses had cleared out.
Anyhow, only a very determined driver, and in
broad daylight, too, can keep his horses from
being overcome by fear in the gloomy, ghostly
glens of those parts.
S HAS 'AS' THE CmoviXho CHUCKED Uji> "TER,
' '"filA.LK, KMO EhCiUSH 'BESM;
/giTTENS KHD 3kM KHO
In ORDER To LWE Two HUNDREDTears,
■ This is Tre tram that went with a smack
Over The HEAD Of T*e. vjhse
Oi-ncuovv •
■who Lived Short tears on
The Tack —
O WHERE,O WHERE \SThaT
TooL-Chow Now^? ; I
Wu Ting Fang, the Chinese Minister at Washington,
has proclaimed his conviction that he will live 200 years
by the aid of a proper system of diet. He supplies
the following details 1. I have given up breakfast,
and take only two meals a day. 2. I abstain from all
flesh food, my diet being rice, or, when I go out to
dinner, whole wheat bread, fresh vegetables, nuts, and
fruit. 3. I avoid all coffee, cocoa, tea, liqueurs, condi-
ments, and all rich foods. 4. I have given up salt also,
because it is found that salt makes the bones stiff. 5. I
masticate every mouthful thoroughly before swallowing.
6. I do not drink at meals but between meals, or one hour
after meals. 7. I practise deep breathing. 8. I take
moderate exercise.”
The rabbit “curse” in S.A. ! Adelaide
Register (27/8/’08) says that a farmer in the
Orroroo district (name and address given) is
making £3 a week steady out of rabbit-skins as a
mere side-line; and that the same farmer em-
ploys a boy of 13 as shepherd, which boy, working
in his spare time at the bunny game, has built up
a £ll2 banking account.
* * * *
An aboriginal with something of a record
in the slaughtering business was up at the Towns-
ville (Q.) Criminal Court the other day. In 1887
he was sentenced to 10 years for manslaughter ; in
1896 he got a life sentence for murdering a gin ;
and now he has got five years for trying to send
another Binghi to the land where the fat go-
hannas are.
THE HORSE’S ROOM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the local court yesterday a man was charged with
having failed to keep his premises clean.
The city inspector stated that the defendant had
stabled a horse in his kitchen for three days. The place
was very dirty.
Defendant said the horse was kept in the kitchen to be
out of the cold. The apartment was used for no other
purpose. —News Item.
It was a mild and gentlemanly beast
And often as its owner watched it feast
Upon its chaff and munch its frugal straw
He said : “ I wouldn’t mind it in the least I’’
The utter freedom of his life ’tis hard
For us to realise. Nothing was barred ;
Compared to ours, his spacious day was like
A mighty desert to a small back-yard.
So, when all household ethics he defied
And to the horse’s stable walked in pride,
There was no voice to furiously shriek,
“ Don’t dare to bring that wretched brute inside ! ”
Imagine if you can the wild uproar
There’d be if you or I led thro’ the door
A horse and tied it to the stove, and straw
Unto the sink for its refreshment bore.
But, health considerations quite apart,
Horses I’ve seen in shafts of cab or cart
Were better far than those that held the reins ;
They knew less language, but they had more Art.
I’d sooner ask a cab-horse in to tea
Than some dull people who are near to me
By some sad trick that Providence has played
In the great gamble of eternity.
Converse I’ve held on Sunday afternoons,
With deadly callers o’er the cups and spoons,
Has left me gasping like a man fresh dragged
From underneath a waterspout. (Eftsoons !)
But sometimes rising with the dreadful load
Of dulness that they heaped on me, I strode
Away and calmed myself by looking at
The horse that dragged them from their far abode.
He generally stood with forelegs bent,
And with his head bowed down, as if intent
Upon some awful problem, one ear cocked
As if it had been generously lent
To catch the threadbare stock of words they owned,
And take them home again. I often groaned,
Seeing him wait like some old servitor,
Silent and watchful, while the humans droned.
The kindly horse, who does not stand aloof,
But condescends to set his honest hoof
In any kitchen should not be let out;
His presence is an honor ’neath the roof.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


r-P
V
A Philosopher ?
No, I am not exactly—buc I know more
about “ The Philosophy of Dress”—l know
where the best values are ,in Men’s or
Boys’ Clothing. Send for a copy To-Day—
“Xlie Philosophy of Dress**
will show you how to
“Pay Less and Dress Better.**
Sent Post Free on application.
Lincoln Stuart (SL Co. Pty. Ltd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Watch BRACELETS
Are Most Pronouncedly Fashionable.
We import the Watches—
We make the Bracelets.
Our stock is a very larjre one.
Gold Watches in flat, flexible Bracelets.
Watches enriched with Pearls.
Watches with Turquoises and Pearls.
Watches surrounded with Diamonds.
Bracelets and Watches set with Rubies—
Sapphires—Olivines—Peridots—Tourmalines.
As Manufacturers, our Prices are
THE LOWEST POSSIBLE.
5^
EXP
&
ilMg&e.
' C I
V ss
Y
K-
VS
%%
15-Jewel Lever Watch, in 15ct. Expanding- Bracelet, £9/9/-
Set round with Pearls, £ll/11/- to £l6.
PLAIN FIGURES'
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS:
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
“Flinderino ” : On the south bank of the
Endeavour River at Cooktown (-Queensland) stands
an old tree, leafless and dilapidated. It is only
half its original size, most of the limbs having
dropped off through venerableness. This ancient
piece of vegetation is known as the Endeavour tree.
The oldest inhabitant tells how, many, many
years ago, a hardened old navigator—Cook by
name—tied his dug-out to what was then a giddy
sapling, and sat down on the bank, and there drew
a map of the eastern coast of Australia. A few
yards away is a large monument erected in
memory of the said, Cook. Of late years the en-
thusiastic tourist from the south has been pilfering
chips and slabs off the Endeavour tree, and it is
getting rather attenuated. However, some patri-
otic Cooktown citizens are making an effort to
save the relic, and a-railing is to be erected round
the old mooring post—also a notice-board warning
visitors to keep their feet off the relic.
UNNECESSARY ANGER.
ENRAGED COCKY : “ Confound it all, I told per
to water the horses.”
THE LATEST: “Well, my dealt fellah, that’s
precisely what I’m — haw—just going to do.”
“F.”: I refuse firmly to believe in
“ J.D.’s ” Maori name which means “ the hill on
which the husband of Heaven played his flute to
his beloved.” I have been had too often with poetic
aboriginal names. Our suburban shanty had a
pretty-sounding name which was supposed to mean
“the high, cool place near Heaven.” It actually did
mean bowels, or something worse. The name has
been changed. When Maori or Binghi names
don’t mean food they mean obscenity. There’s
never any poetry in them, for our brown and black
brother only had two working uses for a language
—food and obscenity.
MORE WAYS THAN ONE.
PUPIL: “ I.I say, is it necessary to knock a chap down in that way ?”
INSTRUCTOR: “ Oh, no; you get up agen an ’ I'll show yer ten other ways."
“ I am reminded by “Henry Phelt-
hatt’s ” query (B. 13/8/’08) re long-distance walks of
a tremendous performance I put up in this line in
the days of my dare-devil youth. My companion
and the person mainly responsible for the feat
was (and is) a well-known Bulletin writer. We
started off in the cool of a cloudless summer
morning, blithe, self-confident, feeling, we assured
one another, as “ Pannikin ” and such-like con-
firmed outbackers must have often felt. The sun
rose after awhile; likewise the temperature.
However, we plodded doggedly on. Presently we
struck orange-groves. We parleyed with an aged
orchardist, and in a short time might have been
seen in a state of profuse perspiration, consuming
citrus fruit under a gum-tree. My companion,
a fellow of tireless physical energy, was not for
indulging in much of this lotus business. Nor in
sooth was I. Ere long, we were afoot once more.
We passed several houses and a plethora of
telegraph poles. The lunch (“tucker” would,
perhaps, be a more seemly
word), part of which I was
carrying, began to feel more
and more like my conception
of a backblocker’s swag. I
unshipped it blasphemously
and met my companion’s eye.
He nodded. We arose re-
freshed, an hour or so later,
and with much-lightened
lunch - Matildas. On we
forged. Only when human
nature yelped aloud in pro-
test did we halt for rest and
sustenance. The orange
groves were left behind. We
plunged into forest country.
The uncanny silence that
bucolic scribes are wont to
insist on was in evidence.
Had it not been for the
broad, white road stretching
in front of us (and likewise
behind) I should have said
we were bushed hopelessly.
A hill loomed ahead. We
breasted it in manful fashion.
Below lay a steep descent.
Evening was approaching.
With aching legs and stream-
ing brows we tottered into
the valley at our feet. Amid
the suppressed cheers of the
natives we reeled to our destination—the boat-
shed at Cowan Creek. We had walked from
Turramurra (N.S.W.) to Cowan (also N.S.W.), a
matter of six miles in eight hours ! It is still my
pleasure to telh of the achievement round the
hearthstone to wondering childhood and credulous
eld—but the experience served to paralyse my
walking-nerve for all time. From that day to
this I have been the tram-ridingest person in the
Mother State.
• * » »
“ Edyson ” : Even The Bulletin must
admit that the boss cocky is often kind to his
animals. Long ago, when I was a wanderer on
the face of the earth, I came into neighborly
contact with Ancey, a man on the land, within a
few miles of Gordon (Vic.). Our mine was in
Aneey’s home padddck, and we saw a lot of
Ancey, and were struck with his great mothering
love for his pale yellow Berkshire pig, Wamba.
That pig was the pride of Ancey’s heart and the
joy of his life. He never talked about his wife
and children, but he would sit on a fence and eat
straw, and orate jubilantly about the pig till the
cows came home. The pig had won two first
prizes in Bungaree competitions, and had taken
the Victoria Cross at Ballarat Agricultural Show,
and Ancey wore the pig’s medals on his watch
chain, and had the pig’s credentials and
certificates of merit framed and hung in his
front room. Ancey’s hairy wooden face, which
ordinarily was like a large stringy-bark chip,
would light up and become quite human when pig
themes were touched upon, or at the mere sight of
his lemon-yellow hog rooting for yams in a 50-acre
paddock. During our first winter Mrs. Ancey was
very ill, and one morning I found her scarcely able
to crawl about the place. “ Oh, yes,” she said,
“ I’m much worse. You see, last night was such
a wet, cold night.” “But,” I replied, “surely
that did not affect you—you were warm and com-
fortable a-bed ? ” “ Yes,” she continued, “but it
was such a cold, wet night, I had to get up to
bring in the: pig.” I told that story to Truscott,
the battery manager, and early next day Ancey’s
pride died an unnatural death. I believe it was
Truscott murdered the pig. He was the most
humane man I ever knew.
“ Hamer ” : The boots, ostlers, rouse-
abouts and general hangers-on of country pubs
represent a stranger mixture of trades and profes-
sions—if they are to be believed—than even a
mining camp. Accepting their statements, I
have met as servitors at country pubs ex-parsons,
ex-army-officers, ex-doctors, ex-barristers, ex-
journalists, tradesmen, craftsmen, pugs, athletes
—in fact, representatives of nearly every branch
of human industry or laziness. It is wonderful
what a blend of human diversity goes into the bar
to serve upon occasion. It was mostly the habit
of going into bars that earned them their present
situations.
THE ISLAND OF HIGH DELIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nirvana... I place it in a summer isle, embraced bj
summer sea.— “Talafekau” (B. IS/8/’OS).
Go on, “ Talafekau,” and sing of lotus-lands and bliss
In tropic isles until you burst,-but first attend to this !
Attend to me, before you die of blue-seas-on-the-brain—
Ah, hear me, ere you write, a-drowse, of coral walls again.
Hold up your tale of surf apd sleep until I take a breath :
Call off your good old reef and palm, your lazy life-in-
death 1
I’d sing of that far, splendid isle where summer always is,
And where the guileful trader does a good tough-likkei
biz.
I, too, have lounged along' the beach and gazed upon the
palm,
And sniffed the heavy, tropic breeze, weighed down with
seaweed balm.
I, too, have droned on lazy isles where blue and red and
green
And yellow were the proper thing, and drab was never
seen.
I know, I know the azure sea that laps the summer isle,
And how thp South Sea dweller loves to leave it for
awhile.
Adown the perfumed beach I’ve strolled alone, alone with
me,
And smelt the sun-kissed jetsam and the dead things of
the sea.
I know thescent of nigger’s-beach and ancient nigger-hut,
And wished they all were fixed with doors, with springs
to keep them shut.
Oh, yes—ah, yes, the Island is a dream—some miles away
When now the noisy tropic scents have nothing more to
say!
I know, who’ve roved and roamed o’ nights along the
tropic dark,
And in my rovings roved against the strident, stranded
shark.
Along the rutty Island roads I’ve strolled, and seen how
well
The lounging nig. of boundless leisure fosters every smell.
I’ve seen hibiscus-bloom in loads, and watched bananas
grow;
I’ve seen the nigger-bloke quite near, and prayed that he
would go!
Where every prospect pleases well and chiefly food is vile,
And where one loves the nigger for his broad and servile
smile,
Where one may loaf and laze and drowse and lounge and
mooch for aye
Is this a Heaven-on-earth and does Nirvana lie this way?
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
THE NATURE STUDENT AND THE TOMTIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From the gumtree behind me came a trickle of song,
liquid and sweet ; then across the grass flew two tomtits.
I watched their yellow backs gleaming like sovereigns as
they passed with short, jerky flight, and saw them enter
the thick bush of a ti-tree. For some moments they
were silent and hidden by the foliage ; then one appeared
and hurried back towards me, followed in a few minutes
by his mate. I could hear them busily twittering in the
distance, and waited to see them reappear. It was not
long before the golden backs again flitted past, and this
time I distinctly saw a white thread in one bird’s beak.
Then I knew that my suspicion was correct; the little
birds were building.—S. M. Herald.
The youthful tomtit twitters on the tree
And adds a straw unto the nuptial nest;
He thinkshe’s not observed ! He cannot see
The Nature Student prostrate on his chest.
The lady tomtit chatters as she works,
Teasing her spouse with arch remarks on Men ;
The Nature Student in his ambush lurks
And “ takes” the flirting with a fountain pen.
The loving chirps—the shy and tender notes
Are jotted down ; a flutter ’midst the leaves—
A gay duet! The hidden Student gloats
Over the marriage melody it weaves.
The Nature Student lies out in the grass
And spies upon their foolish, loving pecks,
But not for love ! Bird articles, alas !
Are what he’s looking for, and sordid cheques.
N.S.W.
E.F.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Kelpie : You claim to have written, to have
had published in The Bulletin, and to have cut out and
posted to this office, “ one or two pars.” The only other
details you recall are that one was “at the top of the
political column ” (you can’t brinff to mind the date of
the issue in which it appeared) and “ was something
about sundowners and land-owners.” In a P.S. you note
that when you “ say one or two pars ” you “ don’t mean a
lot. There were three.” If the cuttings reached here, pay-
ment would have swiftly followed, so the odds are either
that you sent them to some other paper and have now for-
gotten the fact and the paper’s name, or that you didn’t
recollect to send them here and instead dropped them
into a now disremembered ashbin, or that you forgot to
write, the blamed things at all. ...Bower Hansey : You
lack the faculty of clear expression—in fact, you are the
most muddled versifier we know Bushman: Don’t
know enough about paling-splitting to say whether 15,150
palings can be got from one tree or not, but have dark
suspicions that you may be a limb-dragger... .0.8. R.:
Thanks for negative. Will see what can be done with it.
G. W.P. : “ Something to look at” is good patriotism, but
it isn’t staggering in the way of verse. Or, rather, it is
staggering; that is to say, it staggers Macßrose:
Jokes concerning that resort are “off.” Boysie:
Thanks. Yarn of carpet snake that held up Philp’s train
for half-an-hour is, however, a thought too steep....
Claude Menzies : Accepted pars are just published.
Accepted tales and verse get a remittance by way of
answer. Rejected stuff which is accompanied by stamps
for return just goes back. Rejected pars are not replied
to unless extra-important ; there are so many pars
H. : The soup quip was old when the world knew not
restaurants and dined in a cave. Nothing wildly divert-
ing about the others... Roscius: “ Theatrical notes ” are
commonplace. You say nothing new and say it in
journalese Peter Connor : The second is amongst
A. L. Gordon’s poems. Haven’t heard of the other two,
but one of the big booksellers might help you ...J.B. :
Your lengthy essay on “ Hope,” beginning “ Hope is,
perhaps, the pleasantest of the human attributes”
indicates you haven’t read this paper with enough atten-
tion to grasp the class of contribution we do not print....
M.H.R. : A damning admission :
I was reading, Mr. Editor, with a certain amount of
Delight
Three-quarters of a column in the Evening News last
night.
....Zeehan: The Powerful is the flagship of the Aus-
tralian squadron. It is 13 or 14 years old, and is a first-
class protected cruiser (that is to say, it is inferior to a
battleship or an armored cruiser) C.S.G. : Not very
enthusiastic about “The Actor” or the other piece
either... .D.T.G.; Damphoolish, and that’s all about it.
Ben Duffy : Like a heap of others you send a batch
of excellent sentiments in perfectly rotten verse. Either
fall back on prose or be a patriot in silence The
Derelict: The original discoverer of the fact that “ the
things we should not do are the pleasantest” earned the
psychologist’s old-age pension the identical year Judah
went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron. The
march of the intervening years has resulted in its
becoming, as a thought, somewhat shop-worn Dargo :
A foolish joke, and the illustration in no wise redeemed
it E.E. (Ballarat): Funnier than most of the things
six-year-old lads say, but unsuitable for the garish
light of print... .Lubra : Unsuitable. Eleven stanzas
dealing with the sentiments of a billycan exhaust
the subject unduly... .B.J. :“ A Paean ” should be more
or less joyful. Yours is about as cheery as the spectacle
of an ice-cream barrow on a wet winter’s evening....
L.O.W. : “ Statesman’s Year Book,” published annually.
....Mac: Poem quite incomprehensible L.S. : Jokes
are of the Christy Minstrel breed —they are “led up to”
with painful obviousness. A joke with a preamble is as
dreary a thing as a man with a perambulator....Black-
boy : “Aftermath ” rather rugged and rather late. When
a paper only comes out once a w'eek, and a fleet only
stays a fortnight, you have to be mighty swift with fleet
poetry... .Bexhill: Your main grievance is that the
London County Council has dealt out to its crossing-
sweepers caps like those worn by British Guardsmen. It
seems a thin text on which to base an assault on the
(alleged) undue luxury of English prisons and the “ cries
for old-age pensions.”... .Maskee : Involved yarn about
that man and his mistress, revolver, valet, and motor, and
what they all did in Pekin (China), is of no earthly in-
terest to this paper Blunderer: A gratifying com-
munication —but all your points in regard to alien immi-
gration have been made.. ..A.D. : “ Councillors’Lament”
tottered on the brink, but in the end it went over.
Oscar W. : “ Our Fleet Sails down the Bay” contains too
many wild statements... .L. Robertson : All your manu-
scripts but one destroyed, as requested. “ Things That
Are Nice ” was so fervid it burst into a blaze and destroyed
itself E.W. (Ternora): Story too good for print
Caroline N. : Reasonably good descriptive stuff, but
doesn’t reach the level of art Pompey : Third-rate
0n1y.... John R. T. : You have a feeling for verse-music,
but you don’t get away from the beaten track of senti-
ment.... Donald R. M. : The atmosphere of it is depress-
ing. .. .The Prodigal: The history of three travellers and
a bottle of firewater should scratch more gravel... Bush-
ranger : You say you “ will soon find an editor that
will appreciate merit.” Well, why don’t you try us with
some?... .M. J. : The idea admitted of much smarter
handling... .Wang : “The Return” came close-up....
C.A.W. : You’ve simply made a muddle of it Arthur
S. : It’s a pretty enough fancy, but we are not
“gone” on allegories M.L.C. : Cultivate clear-
ness and precision of style. You get into hope-
less confusion, for instance, with your pronouns
Joy P. : The last two stanzas are weak....
F.W.T. : Lamentable lack of skill Kit: If you are
quite young they may be labelled “ Promising ”
Chronus : Just misses the mark, but should be usable else-
where Garnet B. : Hasn’t enough go in it E.H. : A
singular mixture of good and bad Whittal G. : Both
have merit, but are unsuitable for various reasons
Vagus: Real enough, but not sufficiently novel or
striking M.I.A. : “ Oleanders” very nearly caught on.
The others, though not bad in their way, are unsuitable...
B.G.C. : Nonsensical ideas, in feeble and puerile language
Tyro : We had hopes of it till near the ending, which
is bathetic and ridiculous... T.W.: You have a breezy
manner, but your matter is crude and ill-selected
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. Shaw : Only a pictorial pun Geo. Coe : Illustra-
tion poor ; joke destitute Violette: Aged and dreadful
pictorial pleasantry... .May L.: Joke tame; drawings
fierce.. ..G.H.T.: No humor in a pretty girl saying she
doesn’t think bandy legs are hereditary... .Val. R. W.:
Two hopeless. One held for artist’s consideration
Laurence F.: Picture and ox joke both below par....
Henry G.: Sketch fairly good, but the subject is very
uninteresting Anonymous: The bullocky who wanted
a suburban hair-cut is an unsaleable witticism R.J. :
Quite hopeless—worse than that, in fact.. ..Alex. N. :
Both sketches inferior, and jokes of the faint description.
J. Lynch: Purposeless picture of rather shapeless
boy blowing bubbles.


" There is *l° pre'fi'rt' or
a,
tu-Twc should aT«»«e enforce
* C Sys-ffeno of
CAfef C^e)
''////, /
F>> r
l°y
there Sonny 500 1 ew I
\A I-bfder E» e
lirrel "boy— tVy +o G&f
m' J
(niucli -rt,rowel, bis —. .
| g«ess £ „ s^ft' &\
Wl itf -'rf/e €ye.
oy f?op7ecy
" Ihe
oC- /VS' t?^l,^v>
J <f> |..
No 1
'Vel.evcd >n v aII liis
teWi >r-« V h^se.f-
-[ So —WC % |V '"' , ? )
■jfte
Oy.fo^
We Con/ey on'' fce^'ip
,V ®S
tfte S<&r Spaced
Bi.hhe*' >s +b "be cUspe-d To
oui' rre&res't''affection*
(A S «)
CZ{ Y i
3S
K
%
— k(o Sir
ir/usM" Come now .
been com a,
Wee K ®
ji/g Awj^ui
°\
* /
Ci+ in
', oj.
'h&y& 'fVK'e*, tej^s
Jk v/o vy> 'bjv'ti & ons cr
(Vo J v/Tio woeK
Of- V*> foriiofort SC*" V/ ° , ' K - 1 *
'• s>>?ove "s€• i*i "$«- "& ~
*r/ove .r W*V<A !
_ x Billy,
ItOOro&vi Cl'i'ttuK, *ob+ r "Hb .
V/oultfTnl" 'JQy "tfyinK lie lOfowed 2v , «ry
v/or4 we wa/j l
In Thl Wakl Of Nt Flle:T
Melbourne ll^bour^
GOOD-BYE.


AUSTRALIA’S IMMIGRANTS.
MIDNIGHT SCENE ON THE FAR NORTH COAST; THE UNDESIRABLES COMING ASHORE.


THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. ♦ . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
The Austral seasons come and go
In summer’s heat and winter’s snow ;
And spring unfolds her fresh green shoots ;
And autumn brings her gifts of fruits.
Each change is fraught with human ills,
With coughs and colds and sudden chills ;
But life is safe, and health is sure
By taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Mrs. Jessie Lomas, Gladstone, Q. “I
strongly advise every parent to keep a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the house.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
DR. CARTY SALMON, M.H.R. (VICTORIA).
John Osborne, of Sydney, deceased at the
age of 66, was a militant churchman and a militant
pressman, to whom N.S.W. somehow denied a
career. He tried with similar disaster to play the
part of militant politician. He got into every
paddock of opinion, but a morning was sure to
come when friends found him wandering outside
the dograil fence, politically bushed. He
edited the Australian Star for a time, Bill Lyne
carrying him on his back, but the business man-
agement of that paper edited John’s editing, and
so he ivas not to be wholly blamed. For many
years his sentiment was that N.S.W. possessed
only two great men, Henry Parkes and himself ;
and that he could very well do without Henry.
September 3 was the hundredth an-
niversary of the death of Governor King,
third deputy-monarch of Australia, who
reigned in such palaces as old Sydney could
supply from 1800 to 1806. He was a Cornish-
man, born in 1758, so he passed out at the
early age of 50. When the flag was hoisted
at the head of Sydney Cove on January 26,
1788, King was present as second lieutenant
of the Sirius. Through his son (Admiral
Phillip Parker King) and daughters, he has
left almost innumerable descendants, the girls
having married into the Macarthurs and the
Lethbridges. Philip is a family name spelled
in three different ways—the earliest Philipp, next
Philip (the Governor), then Phillip (the Admiral),
named after the Governor.
Another aboriginal king has departed to
the happy gum-tree on which the eternal ’possum
sitteth. This time it is Jimmy Dool, king of the
Collarendabri (N.S.W.) blacks. He was buried
by public subscription as a recognition of the
many lives he had saved from drowning in the
Barwon River.
G. V. Roberts, who on September 1 was
licensed to pursue Costs in Queensland, comes of
a family which has made a hobby of it for 60
years or thereabouts up North. His grandfather,
D. F. Roberts, was Bananaland’s first lawyer;
and his father, G. A. Roberts, chased the Costs
that his father hadn’t caught.
There seems to be a fatality about the
money of Tom Lawry, of Kirribilli (Sydney).
About 12 months ago, Lawry died, leaving some-
thing like £42,000 behind him. He bequeathed
his furniture and household effects to his sister,
Mrs. Plunkett, and his real and personal estate to
two aunts, Mrs. Patrick and Mrs. Norton Russell.
And already they are all three as dead as Tom
Lawry himself.
Two very frisky young persons, who came
down from Wangaratta (Vic.) to Melbourne
during the Fleet celebrations, were Mr. and Mrs.
W. F. Fleming, a pair who look like achieving a
record partnership during the first innings. The
gentleman is 99 not out, and the lady is also 99
not out, so the partnership has scored 198. Not
at all bad for the more or less wet wicket which
their address—Boggy Creek—seems to imply !
According to P. R. Gordon, who, since his
retirement from the job of Queensland Stock In-
spector, has been diving deep into Scottish his-
tory, A. J. Boyd, editor of the Queensland Agri-
cultural Journal, is Earl of Kilmarnock—at
least, he could be if, in the first place, he took the
trouble to prove his descent from the Earl of Kil-
marnock, who was attainted and executed after
the Jacobite rebellion of 1745, and if, in the second
place, he could persuade King Ned to remove the
attainder. But as Boyd is more interested in the
prize pumpkin and the Gargantuan cabbage than
in earldoms, he’s not at all likely to worry
Edward over the matter.
A fall under a moving train at Flinders-
street station, Melbourne, on Friday night, killed
George Turner, son and business partner of the
veteran statesman to whom Australia owes
so much for good services rendered. He was
only 32 years of age when he passed
out. The ex-Premier, though not yet old,
has been a very worn and weary man for
some time past, many years of strenuous poli-
tics having told heavily on him; and in this
grievous addition to bis troubles he will have the
sympathy of all Australians.
John Thomas Parslow, senior, who died
on Saturday, aged 88 years, had resided in
Molong (N.S.W.) since 1840, when the town was
but a small place indeed, and its one pub de-
pended upon the drinking powers of the three or
four squattages and the teamsters who drove past
to Wellington Valley. Molong was acquainted
with old Parson Marsden, who had a sheep-
station there managed by Andrew Kerr, after-
wards of Orange and father of the late M.L.C.
Parson Marsden’s house at Vale Head was after-
wards the Sole Inn, kept by Henry Cobden,
brother of the English Corn Law crank. Mr.
Parslow succeeded Gobden as landlord.
Some men seem to renew their youth on
the vicissitudes of mining. Up in the Mackay
district of Queensland a veteran named J. P.
Christoe is hammering away at the local people,
trying to get them to put up money for a smelting
plant for the district. Fifty-nine years ago the
same man was assistant-manager at the Kapunda
copper mine in S. Aus.—the remarkable show out
of which the Duttons made a good deal of the
money that this generation of the family is spend-
ing on transcontinental motor-car rides. And
Christoe has been clawing away at copper in most
of the years that have since been torn off the
calendar. Just upon 50 years ago he turned out,
near Orange, what seem to be the first ingots of
refined copper produced in N.S.W.—up to that
time the stuff had been sent away in the rough.
Henry Lucy’s story of how John Burns
figured as an archangel in St. Paul’s Cathedral,
London, having been taken as a model by Sir
William Richmond, the church decorator, has its
counterpart at this end of the world. The head
of Lorando Jones, atheist and reformer, figured
in a Sydney Catholic Church for many years as
that of one of the apostles. Lorando was a copi-
ously-bearded, venerable-looking firebrand and a
somewhat bizarre artist, and his handsome head
made an excellent top for an apostle. Archbishop
Vaughan, when he inspected the church, spoke
impressively about the nobility and dignity of the
head of the Apostle Jones. Some interfering per-
son told him that the live meat cranium was
wholly unorthodox, but the prelate replied briefly
that God didn’t throw away a head and face like
that on any really unworthy subject.
“ Iyles Innison ” writes:—
Parliament, is patronised these days. One of the
patrons of the N.S.W. Assembly is Kurnel Onslow, the
elegant member for Waverley. And he is a very tired
member. There may be politicians more exhausted than
Onslow, but I haven’t seen them. He lolls back in the Go-
vernment benches in the most approved ’Ouse of Commons
fashion, and when he doesn’t totally ignore the beastly
Labah members he surveys them in much the same way
that the very superior lady observes the monkeys at the
Zoo. And, by the way, I have never heard Kurnel
Onslow speak in the House, but I feel sure that
when he does he’ll ask the wicked Socialists
of the Chamber to resign (that’ll give him more
room to be tired in), or else he’li resign himself because
of his disinclination to be associated with common
working-class representatives. But, on second thoughts,
I feel sure that he is too tired to speak. It is said that he
talked his way into Parliament, but I don’t believe it;
a vagrant wind blew him in one day when he was asleep—
and the wind caught his tiredness and has been too tired
ever since to blow-him out again. When the Tired People
of the community are granted a special Parliamentary
representative I’ll nominate Kurnel Onslow, for I know
no other person better qualified to do nothing where
there’s plenty of it to do, and heaps of time to do it in.
A FANCY
PORTRAIT.
S.A. Art Gallery lias acquired a portrait
of Lily Langtry, the English “professional
beauty ” of 30 years ago (now a middle-aged and
fairly competent actress). The lady was ac-
quired indirectly, so to speak. George Riddoch,
M.L.C., presented a cattle picture to the Gallery.
(It is considered the proper thing in Adelaide for
every wealthy citizen to enrich the State collection
by at least one painting, and that not any old thing
from his own walls, but something by a bigname.)
Riddoch’s contribution was “Jersey Beauties,”
an old Academy picture, by Edwin Douglas ; and
the artist mentioned when receiving his cheque
that, being a bit of a humorist, he had got the
“Jersey Lily ” of those days to act as model for
the milkmaid, and give the picture-title an added
meaning. However, if Douglas’s picture is all
posterity has to judge by, it will be badly puzzled
as to why the nineteenth century made a fuss over
the lady’s features.
The fishermen of Aberdeen were con-
siderably impressed with Hector (late Joe) Car-
ruthers’ fish-lore. They had reason. One of the
few subjects in regard to which Carruthers has a
considerable fund of exact knowledge is that of
fish and their habits. He knows as much about
them as G. H. Reid does about boiled lollies.
Eish and their doings are a hobby with Joseph,
who is one of the best amateur fishermen in Aus-
tralia. He is a fish naturalist of a fairly high
order. He knows the local fishes’ tastes in bait,
and liking for sun or shade, deep or shallow water,
rock or sand, and can always find them at home
when he calls whether by day or night. If Joe
(now Hector) Carruthers knew as much about
statesmanship as he does about the precise moment
to substitute squid for mackerel on a schnapper-
ing excursion “outside” he would cease to be a
political disgrace to his native land.
It is asserted that his Protuberance Adol-
phus Bent is mentioned as the next Mayor of
Brighton (Vic.), which, by the way, is the mis-
guided suburb which put him into Parliament.
If this inhuman compliment is forced upon the
old gentleman, the possibilities will be ineffable.
F’rinstance, consider the Mayor of Brighton, in
his prolonged and prayerful request to the Vic.
Premier for £2OO or £3OO towards the erection of
a band rotunda, or improvements to the recreation
reserve. And just think of the ensuing argument,
when the Pooh Bah Premier shall ask the Mayor
for “pound for pound,” and snort about “a fair
field and no favor to every bloomin’ citizen.” The
statements that the matter had been “privately
arranged,” and that’Dolph had “expressed his
willingness to act,” look entirely superfluous.
Considering that Brighton has had deep cause for
suspecting that its own member was Premier of
the State, the surprising thing is that ’Dolph
didn’t “ express his willingness ” some four or five
years ago.
Bill Squires is a teetotaler, and about as
unworldly as they make them in his profession.
After a big victory which he
scored in the neighborhood of
his native town three years
ago a number of sycophantic
backers essayed to drag him
from the field of gore to swim
in champagne at the pub half-
a-mile away. “ A drink?” said
William affably. “ Orright—
but what’s the good of walking
into town ? Come erlong with
me, and I’ll show you a ripe
, watermelon patch of my
uncle’s.” Here further
speech was drowned in
shock-ed objurgations and cries
of blasphemy, and William and
his trainer ultimately raided the
avuncular vine on their own.
Victoria’s new Excellency
michael has commenced his studies of
Australian spiders and centipedes.
These are his specialties in entomology,
and he is preparing a fine cabinet of
samples. Any Australian with a new
thing in spiders will receive a hearty
welcome at the vice-regal hands, pro-
vided, of course, the spider is tangible.
It is only fair to warn the strange
Excellency within our gates that there
are in Australia wicked men capable of
deceiving him for gain, and willing to
ring in forged spiders or faked centi-
pedes even on a Governor. Some
time back an amateur entomological
crank struck Melbourne. He was
giving fancy prices for exquisite butter-
flies, and one afternoon a long, lean
man in leggings called on him with a
tray of specimens of astonishing loveli-
ness. The collector was enraptured,
and gave a fancy price for the whole
dish of insects, only to discover, on
I displaying his find to a local scien-
I, tist, that he had been victimised
with a batch of barnyard moths,
neatly sprayed and dusted with
gold and gaudy colors.
The freakish Bent blew into
the smoke concert that the Vic.
Government gave the IT.S.A.
sailors (2/9/’08) “in his Windsor
uniform.” The simple mariners
were convulsed with amuse-
ment at the apparition. When
the laughter had subsided
somewhat, and the prostrate
tars had got up off the floor,
Turn mas launched into what
the newspapers described as
“picturesquerhetoric.” After
a brief disquisition on poli-
tics, Bent intimated that
“ he didn’t care a about
what the press said of him.”
Tumrnas silent was funny,
but all hands and the
ship’s tame bear agreed
that the same statesman
talking, cursing, etc., was
something supernatural in
the way of diversion. “ The
men,” says a report, “shrieked
with laughter.” It was all very
well for the men. They were
not, so to speak, related to Bent.
But it is a painful thing for Austra-
lians to reflect that a big proportion
of 15,000 Americans will return to
Hamland with the indelible recol-
lection that the weirdest, most
fantastic grotesques they struck in the Common-
wealth were prominent politicians of the Bent or
Anti-Sosh sort.
The late John Osborne, the “strongest”
preacher Ma State Wesleyanism ever had, left
the Church that loathes Rome in sudden fashion.
During a sermon 20 years ago he said something
in praise of Father Vaughan, who loomed largely
at the time in local Romish circles. There was a
mild riot among the congregation forthwith. The
organist got up and left. Elders dashed their
Bibles to earth, seized their silk hats and gamps
and stumbled from the polluted kirk, saying
“Drat” and “Bother” in their annoyance. The
following Sunday only seven worshippers mate-
rialised. So Osborne dropped the dour religion of
his forebears and took to journalising.
Still another note from the North, where
the white man is alleged to crumple right up and
become a wreck at 35 or thereabouts (the note is
scissored from the Croydon Mining News of
August 20): —
Mr. Louis Johns, who left Croydon last week, after a 20
years’ residence, 18 of which were spent at Golden Valley,
wired from Donors Hills that he was making fair progress
on the bike and was in good health. Louis is 70 years of
age, and decided to bike it through to Victoria. He has
gone to the West to see some friends he made when he
knocked about there, and will then continue his journey
to Melbourne. He isn’t biking it to Victoria through
necessity, but because he feels that the ride down on the
wheel will do him good.
“ Itan ” writes :
Ernest Henry, who has been hanging on to Cloncurry
(Q.) for JO years, and isn’t worn out yet, was the dis-
coverer of the first copper show in the Hampden district,
whence W. Knox and his friends expect to dig another
million or two. Henry was the holder of Hughenden
station in 1867, hut, hungering for more territory, he
pushed out west. Stumbling across rich specimens of
copper, he took them to Peak Downs and after-
wards commenced to prospect, although there was at
that time not a mile of railway in Queensland, no port at
Townsville, and very few people in the Far North. For
14 years he belted away at the mine on a small scale,
carrying the ore by pack to Normanton or Townsville,
which was then beginning to shape itself, but was 500
miles away. The ore from there was sent to Swansea for
treatment. At the end of the 14 years’ wrestle he sold
out the Great Australian to a Scottish syndicate. _ Mean-
while Henry had made other finds, most of which are
now being developed. It is good to hear that the old
battler retains an interest in half-a-dozen of them.
THE MUSICAL PUGILIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Say,” chipped in Manager Kelly, “Tommy’s chance is
good. He was singing his love song, ‘Wait till the Sun
Shines, Nellie,’coming over in the train.”—Burns inter-
view, Sydney Refer be, ;?/.9/’&S.
When his punch is at its best
And his hooks and jabs and wiles
Cause his friends to feel at rest,
Sentimental Tomraj' smiles —■
And croons a song.
No rude battle-chanty, mark,
Telling of the joy of strife
Aggrandising doings dark
In the ring—not on your life :
That would be wrong.
Gore’s a subject Thomas hates
(Out of business hours) worse
Than strong drink. Instead his mates
Hear him troll a plaintive verse
Or two re Love.
All hands soften at the sight.
There the gentle fellow sits—
As his sweet cries pierce the night
One forgets his deadly hits :
He seems a Hove.
See ! his adversary stands
Up before him in the ring.
Tommy hums a stave, then hands
To his auditor a swing
Across the nose.
It is wonderful to note
How the pugs are all alarmed
As Tom’s head-tones upward float;
And his body-strokes (short-armed)
Rain heavy blows.
Hark ! Tom’s lower notes peal out,
And his footwork comes in play—
(He who’s list’ning gets a clout;
He recalls for many a day,
Upon the eye).
Now the middle register
Sounds in a sweet cradle-hymn.
’Fore his hearer’s gaze a blur
Conies****. For Tom has smitten him
A lullaby.
s.s.w.
J.B.D.


m
!$*
v\
y
■'fV
m
; £
8
&
*v
>f
MfMSM
fi-j.
S 3?
?.f-F
£3
s*
«3>
&S
' s
L s^
m
m
w&-
m
■??5.
tf : ?U
s&
■■
c§
V ■ '•:
Jit.
n
: N
r
kSV
Iftw
-J>
€
r^>
b
//
V
S 3 =
V
%
v/-
2?
£
52
r :
52
%
0
).
“Are you sure you Have broug'Ht everything' that’s
necessary, Henry ?’ ’
“Yes, sir. Here are the HAVELOCK CIGARETTES.”


Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Bare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawing’s.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Dei’by China.
liouis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Beliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
There was a young- lady who said,
“ Yes, truly, I’d rather be dead ;
I suffer such pains,
I’ll blow out my brains.”
But she took Laxo-Tonic instead.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemist refund money if it -fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l|d.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
i»theacmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEOEGE ST. (opp/Hunter 9b.), SYDNEY.
ALSO at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Labor party started well in the
Westralian elections. Nine members were re-
turned unopposed, and five of them are of the
party which sits opposite Premier Newton Moore,
and looks upon his immense waistcoat with a
feeling of hostility.
The gentle Hindu has been at it again in '
Fiji—in fact, he has been at it with such energy
that some of him have hacked a white man in
about 24 pieces. Pretty nearly all the crime in
Fiji seems to arise through the gentle Hindu.
He is always at it more or less.
Litigation must be abundant in N. S. Wales.
Last wqek four barristers were appointed Acting
Judges of the District Court. There are now five
Judges of the High Court (which gets most of its
litigation from N.S.W.), seven Judges of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court, seven Judges of the
District Court, and four Acting Judges of the
District Court.
Last week’s High Court decision in favor
Of-pensioner Macharg adds another to the long
list of abortive, law suits entered into by
the State of New South Wales during the past
year. And in Macharg’s case it had not even
the melancholy satisfaction of knowing that it
“ blewed ” its hard-earned money in an attempt
to be nasty to the Commonwealth, as it did in the
wire netting and steel rail matters.
REID'S SOCIALISTIC TIGER.
Our Robertstown correspondent writes:—“Up to the
present no trace of the supposed tiger has been found.
Many and varied are the reports, but one given by a
prospector who resides about 15 miles from here may be
taken as fact. He was lying reading in his camp at a late
hour a few nights ago, when he was startled by a loud
roar. He says the noise was something awful, and he
could compare it with no other than that of the roarings
of the animals at the Zoo. The noise continued for some
time in a succession of roars, yells, and grunts. He
admits that he was scared for a while, and is convinced
that the noises were not made by any animal common to
this country. He says the roars were louder than those
of any bull.—S. A. Register.
Reid : “ Hang it! And I let him go, thinking
that nobody vjas scared of him."
The “drastic tariff,” that the “poor
farmer ” was alleged to wail about when he first
heard of it, is responsible for the opening of
another new factory in Melbourne and the em-
ployment of 200 additional hands, with the pros-
pect of 600 being taken on inside 12 months.
That is how Jas. Miller and Co., rope makers,
are shaping as a result of the 5 per cent, added
to the rope duty. For a start, £20,000 will
be spent on the works and on locally-made
machinery; then a lot more flax-fibre or straw
will be bought from the poor farmer, and those
600 employees and their families will buy quite a
quantity of wheat and mutton and butter and
milk, and things from the poor farmer also.
One of the quaint things about the
Victorian Government is the facility with
which it heaps up promises of railway con-
struction. If Nowhere wants a few miles
of track to connect it with God-forsaken,
or if God-forsaken yearns for railway
communication with Corpseville or Devil’s
Ruins, Adolphus, who is sure to be
bouncing about that part of the atlas, is
bound to hear of it. His large ear
inclines encouragingly to the pleadings
of the meek cadger, and herein Dolph
displays a certain mastodon-like subtlety.
He knows that it doesn’t really matter
whether he does or does not promise to
refer a suggested line to the Railways
Committee for investigation, because, by
the time the committee has finished with
it, two or three generations will have been
born and passed away. Even if the
committee is a little bit swifter than
that, the oldest inhabitant of Corpseville
or God-forsaken or Devil’s Ruins is the
only one who can remember that some-
body asked for a railway years ago. Thus
Dolph can preserve an attitude of generous
interest in the railway-seeking district
without danger to his deficit. Just now
he has 22 lines of railway on the ice.
Three have been authorised by Parlia-
ment, five recommended by the Railways
Committee, and 14 are under considera-
tion by the same body, notwithstanding
the fact that the contemplation of or
meditation on more than one line at a time
is prohibited by law.
Arthur Donnelly, suggesting in the
Dungog (N.S.W.) Chronicle the forma-
tion of an Australian Navy League, points
out that only 50 years ago America gave
to Japan the first locomotive that comic-
opera country had seen. Now Japan, with far
less wealth than Australia, is one of the great
world Powers.
According to Premier Bent, Rupert Clarke
once asked the Government £1,000,000 for a pro-
perty which is valued, for taxation purposes, at
£50,000. So apparently what is called a rate of Is.
in the £1 is, in that instance, really just about |d.
And when £d. in the £ isn’t sufficient to keep the
local roads in order, a deputation of landlords
usually clamors on Bent’s doormat for a subsidy
towards which every artisan and laborer in the
cheap suburbs and humble by-ways of Melbourne
has to contribute.
There were two really interesting leaders
in last Monday’s Sydney Telegraph. The first,
“A Warning from Lord Northcote,” spoke
severely to the Federal authorities because they
haven’t yet taken over the Northern Territory
and sent population there, and because we have no
army that could defend Port Darwin, and no fleet
or transcontinental railway to carry defenders
there if we had them—in short, the grievance was
that the Commonwealth hasn’t spent quite a heap
of millions to protect Australia’s backdoor. “Ap-
palled at the fatuous recklessness with which Aus-
tralia continues to tempt international Providence,”
was one of the expressions used. The next article,
“ Mr. Dugald Thomson on Federal Finance,” was
a denunciation of the same Federal authorities for
wanting some money wherewith,to do the things
it denounces them for not having done —the Tele-
graph’s idea being that of Wade, who proposes
that the Commonwealth should have only the
proceeds of a third mortgage on the tariff revenue
wherewith to do everything. It is difficult to
know what the Commonwealth could do or leave
undone that would please the grumpy old Tele-
graph or its friend Wade.
Adolphus Bent’s ‘ ‘ golden-haired girl ” is
up before the democratic court, charged with
being a disreputable character. First Dolph
described the “unfortunate” as a lovable
damsel replete with the most admirable graces ;
he showed her in his political shop window ;
he labelled her “not for sale”—she was the
land policy bubbling over with benefits. But,
after keeping her in the glass case for months,
at last he let the public obtain a personal
interview with her; whereupon the public
found out that she was a mockery, a bluff, a
delusion and a snare. Her hair fell off, her
teeth were false, her bosom was pneumatic,
her whalebbone hips collapsed, and her
complexion washed away. And now she’s a
vagrant, and her protector, when the land-
hungry public gets at him, will be a belted
knight.
Dear Bulletin,—l notice that Dr. E.
Denekamp, Ph.D., who has been for five years
Dutch Associated Press representative in Eastern
Asia, visited Sydney recently, and conversed some
concerning our ally :
I have been much struck with the attitude taken up by
Australia regarding the Japanese. The Japanese laborer
is not nearly so good as the white laborer, and Ido not
think the former, even if paid only half the wages of the
latter, could do half the work. If the Australians are
afraid of Japanese competition in field labor they are
wrong, for there is absolutely nothing to be afraid of.
As a matter of fact, in parts of Texas, in which I have
been as the representative of the Dutch Press in America
the Japanese who own land employed white laborers, be-
cause, although they have to pay double wages, they get
more than double the work out of them.
And the same story applies to the nigger—the
American knows now that the nigger doesn’t
represent cheap labor after all, only low-priced
and poor labor. But the United States took the
nigger in before it made the discovery, and the
making of the discovery doesn’t shove the nigger
out. It is good glad news to hear that, after the
Jappy person had arrived in Australia, a large
experience of him would prove that he couldn’t
rival the white field-worker. But he would be here
all the same. —Yours, Henry Horsecollar.
“ K.” writes :
Lord Welb.v, the misguided British nobleman who pre-
sided at the late International Freetrade Congress held in
England, instead of announcing gloomily that “the
prospects of Freetrade throughout the world were some-
what cloudy,” should have thrown up his coronet with
joy and danced on the table to celebrate the passing of a
ruinous hallucination. An indication of the condition
the British masses have been reduced to owing to its
ancient delusion is the case of the steamer Barbary, which
sailed recently from Liverpool for Buenos Ayres. As soon
as the ship had cleared the coast, stowaways began to
crawl out of the hold and the bunkers; from
almost every corner capable of concealing a human
being, a starved wretch sneaked forth, until a ragged and
miserable company of 22 shivered on deck before the
eloquence of the first mate. If they had been lusty
well-fed men, they could have seized the ship and started
out to be prosperous Freetrade pirates ; but they were
merely famished scarecrows from the citadel of Cobden
and starvation, and the only thing they were capable of
seizing was a square meal. The master of the Barbary
didn’t feel equal to carrying and feeding so much of
England’s Freetrade residue across the ocean, so he
turned his vessel round and put the 22 unfortunates
ashore again to continue their perish by the docks.
AS OTHERS SEE US.
IMPORTED ONE: “Haw! Can't make out where
th’ dooce you fellers get your idea of — haw —
Englishmen from. Why, you make us look
such idiots, doncherknow! ”
“Cane-Knife” hacks out some observa-
tions :
Thu Bulletin’s contention that white labor is well
capable of harvesting sugar is being- proved in curiously
effective fashion here (Johnstone River, N. Queensland)
this year. The fact is white labor is doing too darned
well for the local mill, which is manned partly by colored
labor. The mill can’t deal with the cane as it comes in,
and as a result the cutting gangs have had to shorten
hands. Herein the men have a grievance. They gave a
guarantee before starting work of £5 and from 10 per
cent, to 25 per cent, of their gross earnings that they
would complete ; but the millers gave none on their
part that they would allow the men to finish the season.
So some of the cutters are going to be left. It’s not quite
the state of affairs the pro-Kanaka crowd foretold.
Someone took the trouble to telegraph the
information all the way from London that the
Daily News disapproved of an Australian navy,
and said that “a divided fleet was worse than
none.” If that is so, the Japanese alliance must
be an amazing fool of a business. The Jap fleet
and the British one are divided by some 12,000
miles of sea, and if a divided sea force is worse
than none at all, the apparent result is that the
alliance has made both navies quite useless. In
some amazing fashion the Daily News variety of
person appears to hold that Britain is greatly
strengthened when a brown person at a great dis-
tance promises to help, if necessary, with his ships,
but if a white person at rather less distance made
the same promise, it would be a curse and a dis-
aster.
Westralia is going the same dishonest way
as the rest, and is selling the public estate whole-
sale and sticking the proceeds in with the revenue.
During the last few years this species of fake has
been rushed on tremendously ; in 1903, for in-
stance, the land sales money collared as revenue
amounted to only £28,398, while in 1907 it
amounted to £136,248. Every time an acre of
land is sold and the proceeds used in that way it
becomes harder to make ends meet in the future ;
for when land is sold there is an end to it as a rent
producer for the State. So naturally, as land
sales money has increased, rent has fallen away ;
it was £98,782 in 1903, and only £59,216 in 1907.
And that is only one way in which the incom-
petent, short-sighted, jelly-spined Westralian
State crowd is sowing the seed that will yield a
staggering harvest of trouble before long.
When Adolphus Bent’s humorous Bill for
putting the Press ip its right place is going
through the Vic. Parliament there will be room
for one or two amendments. Adolphus proposes
not only that all political articles shall bear the
name of the writer in type twice the size of that
used in the article, but that every paper shall be
bound to publish a “correction” twice the length
of the original article. As Bent and most other
politicians never yet delivered a political speech
that didn’t need correcting in some particular,
somebody ought to propose that when Bent hires
a hall for himself he should be compelled to hire
two halls for his opponents; also when any
remarks of Swinburne’s at a dinner are objected
to, Swinburne should also be bound to pay for two
dinners so that matters may be set straight.
Normand Maclaurin, the pawky old Scot
who bears a permanent and well-filled hive in his
Glengarry on the subject of Federation, has cray-
fished deftly in the matter of Defence. At a
meeting of the National Defence League (N.S.W.
Division) last week a letter of resignation was
read from him. It wound up :
The Defence League has now, in my opinion, completely
identified itself with Mr. Deakin’s policy on this matter,
which seems to me to be niggardly and unwise. I think
it is best that I should take the opportunity which the
general meeting affords of resigning my position.
Maclaurin’s expressed reasons for going back on
his previous views are characteristically vague.
The attitude of citizens like Maclaurin is that if
Deakin proposes to begin defending Australia in
a small way the policy is “niggardly”; if, con-
trariwise, he suggests starting in a biggish way his
policy is “unwise’’not to say maniacal. In any
case they will have none of Defence—in relation to
Deakin. They have no objection to the Common-
wealth being defended, but they will not have it
defended, if they know it, by the agency of a man
who lives in Victoria.
The S. Australian Government Savings
Bank has now the remarkable record of holding
deposits from no less than 43 per cent, of the
entire population—a record that is helped on a
bit by the growing use made of the penny banks
run as a branch of the Savings Bank by the Edu-
cation Department. Still even without those
accounts, over 41 per cent, of the population are
Savings Bank depositors.
When the Australian Government inter-
fered to protect the wharf-lumpers from the in-
humanity of those farmers who crammed up to
4001 b. of wheat into one bag, there was a scream
of protest by the State Premiers. This was, they
said, a purely State matter, and they would look
into it, and do it properly, by forbidding such
freightage on the railways. Minister Chapman,
however, grinned sourly at the proposal, and
asked the State Premiers why they hadn’t already
taken action. Also he added that, as the Com-
monwealth only dealt with one source of the evil,
it was open to the States still to do the thing pro-
perly, by refusing to carry per rail bags of wheat
over a specified weight. And this, from the Argus,
is how one State is “ attending to the matter :
The Chief Commissioner on Friday brought the matter
before the Premier (Mr. Bent), who, on the ground that
there are large stocks of the large-sized bags in the hands
of the farmers, decided that no action should be taken
before the end of the coming grain season to prevent the
carriage of the large bags on the railways.
The wharf-lumpers’ views on the policy of “trust-
ing the States ” would now be interesting.
The first batch of large estates to be re-
sumed under the N.S. W. Closer Settlement Act is
announced. The total area is 170,000 acres, and
the average price is £5 an acre. While even this
small amount of cutting up is to be applauded, it
is useless to suppose that making land available at
£5 an acre is solving the land-for-the-landless
question. Some £BOO,OOO is involved in the few
transactions under notice. That is, the Govern-
ment pays £BOO,OOO in cash for the land, and has
to recover £BOO,OOO plus interest and expenses.
The new settlers may escape the landlord ; but
they will bump into something almost as big and
hard in the shape of a mortgage. And for
want of a graduated land-tax or something to keep
the land divided when it is divided it is all a case of
pouring water into a sieve. The water may be
thick, and the sieve may be fine, and a lot of the
water may stick, but that, after all, is mere
accident.
Certain Melbourne firms are just now
showing further reasons for the speedy transfer of
all industrial legislation to the Commonwealth.
Some have found that it pays to send cloth to
Brisbane, have it made into clothing there, and
then get the goods shipped back again ; while
Adelaide shirt-makers are undercutting the Mel-
bourne manufacturers in their own market, not-
withstanding the freight that has to be paid. If
the standard of wages fixed by the Victorian *
Wages Boards and the N.S.W. Arbitration
Court is to be maintained, the manufacturers
of these States must not only be protected
against the cheap foreigner, but equally
against the cheap Australian ; and while it
would be a long and almost hopeless task to
force fair-wage legislation through some of the
State Upper Houses, the thing can be done
quickly and easily by the Australian Parliament.
TRAVELLIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Premier Bent complained most bitterly that Victorian
members of Parliament who attended the recent Ameri-
can Fleet festivities in Sydney were compelled to travel
in cars that were little better than “dog-boxes.”
—News item.
“Travellin’ in the dog-box, the dog-box, the dog-box,
Travellin’ in the dog-box,” the axles seem to say ;
Member, too, for Bungaroo, bust his screw, lookin’ blue.
But what’s a deadhead got to do when Sydney’s far away ?
“ Travellin’ in the dog-box, the dog-box, the dog-box,
Travellin’ in the dog-box to Sydney by the sea ” ;
Mister Jones, M.Ij.A., hear him bray, all the day
(Member, too, for sweet Footscray), an’ Missus Jones and
ME.
Travellin’ in the dog-box, the dog-box, the dog-box,
Travellin’ in the dog-box to Sydney by the sea ;
Been and went, ’aven’t spent, all the time a single cent,
But you’ve insulted Mister Bent—Mister Bent and me.
N.S.W.
ECAROH.
BURNING WITH RHEUMATISM
FOR WEEKS.
Sydney Woman Nearly Driven Mad With
Pain.
Scarcely Able to Walk ; Legs so Stiff
Couldn’t Bend Them. Got No Relief
Until Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Cured
Her.
After all, the chief interest to rheumatic suffer-
ers is that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured
some hundreds of Australian cases. That’s a fact.
This paper alone has published accounts of scores
of cures in N. S. Wales. Briefly,, the proper way
to cure rheumatism is to get the acid that'causes
the complaint out of the blood- Then there can’t*
be rheumatism.
Rheumatism can’t be got out of the blood with
hot cloths or liniments, or anything else that
doesn’t touch the blood. These things may seem
to ease the pain for the moment—but they don’t
cure. If you’ve had rheumatism you know that.
They cannot possibly cure. To cure it, a medi-
cine that acts on the blood is needed. Such a
medicine is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They con-
tain the very elements that go to make pure rich red
blood. This new blood sweeps out the very cause
of rheumatism. It loosens the muscles, soothes
the nerves and supples stiff and burning joints.
Here is just one instance of how rheumatism gave
way to a supply of good blood. Mrs. Mary Horner,
15 Harrington Street, Sydney, says
“I used to be very much troubled with rheu-
matics. It was in both feet, about the ankles.
They puffed up just as if I had dropsy. The
pains would be acute, and sometimes both feet
would be affected at once. I’d be quite distracted
with the pains that shot through me, just like red-
hot burning knife-stabs. I’d often wake up in
the mornings and hardly, be able to get about the
house, except by hobbling; then perhaps the pains
would go as quick as they came. One day one
foot would be bad and the next day the pains
might come on in the other. The ankles would
be red and inflamed, and I couldn’t put on my
boots. I had to wear slippers. I was afraid for
anyone to come near me. Mv ankles were stiff
and cramped and the pains would often dart right
up the calves of my legs. The least change of
weather and I’d feel it. I had been ailing on and
off for some time before my daughter got me to
take Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. The first box did
me a trifle of good. Gradually the pains eased
off ; the attacks didn’t come on so often, and when
they did they were much less severe. The red
inflamed look left my ankles and they got more
supple, so that I was able to walk quite easily in-
stead of dragging along in pain. I mostly took
the pills at night time, as they suited me better
this vvay. I was very much easier and better
with the third box. Hardly any signs of rheu-
matism were left, but I kept on and took three
more boxes, and these drove them away for good
and all.” ' .
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all chemists
and storekeepers, or may be ordered by mail from
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Go. of Australasia,
Ltd., Sydney, at 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
post free. Write for hints as to diet, etc.


m
A|
Spring & Summer.
*l9oB*
fifa’Ae a A Oncepof
Bi/c/rLEyrS
'J%3/f/ojySofA/, e /My'
7fi<°f//?c3f///i/5/rafec/ Ca/a/oyc/e
> crcr/^MaAcc/ynAz/a/ra/za^
' frery fi/oc/f/taa jbecn Opec/a//y
Prepared, arc/p/Ves a True
o/ Our 3/ocfo.
Pqjt Free on Application
Buckleys Nunn Lt d
3OO-310 BOURKE 5T.,
MELBOURNE.
Sneu-^
• * Nice-
st
V. \
\ \
> \ ?
ECKERSLEY’S MENTHOLINE is a certain cure for Coughs, Colds, Influenza and all
Throat and Chest Affections, Being volatile, it is the only genuine “ breathing ”
remedy, readily permeating the whole respiratory tract and affording immediate
relief to congested air passages. Contained in a small bottle, which can be conveniently
carried in the pocket, it is available instantly on the slightest preliminary symptoms of
a cold—sneezing, sudden chills, etc. Outwardly applied, MENTHOLINE cures Headache,
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Rheumatic Pains, etc. At all Chemists and Storekeepers, Is. bottle,
or 4 bottles for 3s. 6d., post free from the Sole Manufacturers, ECKERSLEY & SONS,
628 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Free Trial Bottle for two pence in stamps of any State.
Queensland Wholesale Agents : Elliott & Hancorne, 110 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Why don’t Jones get a Typewriter?
THis is the
NEW MODEL.
Why don't YOU get a typewriter? It actually costs money to be with-
out one, through time wasted, mistakes caused, and bad impressions made.
To-day, the pen-written letter receives little consideration.
Our NEW MODEL BRITON has Two-Color Ribbon, Tabulating
Indicator. It is a standard machine simplified. It saves 1200 parts, and
more than half the usual cost. Fully guaranteed. Let us tell you our offer.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
282-4 George Street, Sydney.
yZrigUiMuUr 1
& Sohn,
A. Q.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
m
Prism
Bino-
culars.
NEW MODELS.
For Military, Naval, Sporting, Opera,
and Tourist Use.
Brilliant Definition and Marvellous Illumination.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS, LTD.,
386 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled, s ‘ What
Binocular to Select,” post free. [1
NORTH COAST LANDS.
4500 ACRES. 4500 ACRES.
Subdivided into 28 Farms from 60 to 500 acres.
SPRINGROVE ESTATE
Pick of the famous Casino-Lismore Districts (Richmond
R,i ver )_the (greatest Butter-producing; area in the Com-
monwealth. Each block available for immediate dairying-,
3 miles from deep water, and close to rail.
Paspalum well established throughout.
Rich Volcanic Soil.
Magnificent water supply. Ten years terms.
FOR AUCTION SALE AT THE MASONIC HALL, CASINO,
ON
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17* at 11a.m.
Full particulars other issues. Lithographs and all infor-
mation from
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE
AGENCY CO., Ltd., Sydney and
all Branches.
C. H. ANDERSON, Casino
J. B. McDOUGALL, Casino
HINDMARSH & JOHNSTON, Lismore
All
Auctioneers
in
Conjunction.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
WE DON’T
ASK YOU
TO BUY
ANYTHING.
0
WE WANT
TO SEND
YOU A
FREE BOX.
Fill in and forward the following Coupon, and we will mail you, free of all
cost, a neat box containing Patterns of our NEW SPRING
SUITINGS at 50/-, 03/-, 70/- and 75/- No NEED
to ORDER anything ; we only want you to see the quality of the fabrics.
Some day you may want a Suit, and we should esteem it a privilege to be
entrusted with the order. Whenever that does happen we are confident
of being able to give you complete satisfaction.
•• B.” 10/9/’OS.
/’LEASE POST EPEE PATTERNS, Etc., to
Name
Address
F. J. PALMER SON,
The Criterion Tailors, opposite the Criterion Theatre,
Corner of PITT and PARK STREETS,
And at George Street, HaymarKet,
SYDNEY.


He
f
e
o
0
WHAT
0
a.
IS
O
T:
THIS
-0
0
&
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENOLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
If you are one of those particular women who seek
the best preparations for toilet use, you will be interested
in the list of the Valaze preparations, and appreciate the
many suggestions for beauty culture to be found in Mile.
Rubinstein’s booklet, “ Beauty in the Making.” Valaze,
the chief beauty-maker, is a skin food par excellence.
It revitalises the tired and wasted tissues, removes all
impurities, and makes the skin soft and clear. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. 6d., 6d. post. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure
easily and quickly banishes these complaints, and prevents
their recurrence by destroying their cause. 2s. lOd.
posted. Valaze Skin Tonic, specialty for greasy skins,
removes bagginess under the eyes. 3s. 6d., 6d. postage.
All chemists, or direct from Mile. Rubinstein and Co.,
Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 9 Brandon Street, Wellington,
N.Z.* • [2
Bill
mm
<SSJ
%
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
Our packets contain the
purest and most wholesome
tea that can be got —Robur
is everywhere admitted as
undoubtedly the highest
standard tea packed in this
part of the world —and the
wonder is, not that we sell so
much of it, as that any other
tea can be sold at all—if
people only knew what good
tea Robur really is, they
wouldn’t use any other.
The No. 2 Grade Robur
is wonderfully economical ■
it is just the thing for
everyday family use it has
a very nice flavor.
“The Connoisseur’s Friend.”
"BLACK and WHITE.’’
■"—run i ■ i 11 mil iiimii mi■ —■ n aa—
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Is the acme of perfection, and the high-class standard
stimulant of the British Empire.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 8, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
Lady Northcote is an unusual person in that she
can receive a gift gracefully. Most persons when
taking a present are either ashamed and awkward,
and in great doubt what to do with both feet, or
they are wildly glad, and reach out too publicly
with both hands ; and one emotion is as unbecom-
ing as the other. “It is a very onerous business,
this gift-taking, and the debtor naturally wishes
to give you a slap.” (I disremember who said
that.) But Lady Northcote, when the specimen
of the goldsmiths’ and jewellers’ art was handed
to her by Mayoress Hughes last week, didn’t look
like slapping the hander. She took the gold,
Greek-like vase in both hands, and examined
the monogram and coronet done in Austra-
lian gems, and turned the beautiful thing
about with a serious, not solemn, interest
as one might look at a new flower or a picture on
which the paint isn’t yet dry. Between the
pleased staccato remarks she addressed to the
committee-women on the dais with her, and the
speech she made in acknowledgment of the loving-
cup, her Ex. contrived to convey the impression
that she loved the givers and liked the gift. Her
suggestion that she felt the women of Australia
had adopted her was a happy one.
The Giving of the Gift was watched from the
gallery of the Town Hall by as many eyes as there
were chairs. No, I forgot—twice as many eyes ;
for though there may have been somewhere a one-
eyed person who sat on two chairs the event is
unusual. Not a man onlooker leavened the femi-
ninity in the gallery. On the equally crowded
floor of the hall, Early Christian Martyr Fyers and
Pagan Survival Stephens, Captain Wilson, and
Layton of the well-fitting clothes were the only
men in sight.
Miss Rawson gave Lady Northcote her moralsup-
port. She “supported ”in a turquoise blue cloth
and a Gainsborough hat. Lady Poore and Chief
Justicess (or Chief Giantess, it should be) Darley
sustained their exalted selves in mole grey velvet
and pearl grey cloth garments. Premieress Wade,
Mrs. Hugh Dixson, with her inexorable eyeglass
mounted on a prop, Mrs. “Innisfail” Toohey,
Mrs. Langer Owen, Mrs. S. W. Moore, Mrs.
Griffiths and other Somebody ladies who were
on either the reception committee or the execu-
tive ditto, helped to exclude fresh air from the
departing Excellency.
That brace of extra-beautiful gowns worn
during Fleet-week by Lady Northcote and Mrs.
J.C.W. respectively were not imported. They
materialised, one at a Pitt-street and the other at
a George-street Emporium. In the matter of
blessedness “Mesopotamia” isn’t in it with the
word “emporium.”
When women farewell a woman they do it with
the aid of the florist, or the jeweller, or the gold-
smith. Sometimes all three. But when men say
good-bye to a man, food is the means of their
adieuing. Lord Northcote was farewelled by a
heap of citizen soldiers at a banquet at the Aus-
tralia. The First Australian Infantry Regiment,
of which his Ex. is Honorary Admiral, or some-
thing, were the provender-providers. The Martyr,
the Pagan, and the Incomparable Share accom-
panied the Honorary General-at-Sea-or-something,
and helped to demolish the recessional dinner.
And then there was more farewelling of the
Northcotes—in fact, there has been nothing else
doing. He held a levee last Friday. Somebody
on his staff issued directions as to dress. “ Wind-
sor uniform, green spectacles, macintosh, large
cotton umbrella, and plug hat with ostrich
feather.” I may not be quite correct in some of
the details, but I think that was the ukase issued.
“Miss Rawson requests the pleasure of the com-
pany of Miss Snooker at a drawing-room meeting
on Thursday, Sept. 10.
“Subject for Discussion :
“ The Proposed Formation of Pure Milk
Depdts. ”
There is some more reading on the card, but the
above quotation will do for a peg on which to hang
a note of admiration re Miss Rawson’s liberalised
education. Accompanying the card is an epistle
expounding the (milk) Gospel according to Alice.
With extreme gravity, as President of the N.S.W.
Branch of the National Council of Women, the
Cranbrook girl sets out the woes that wait on im-
properly-fed infants. We crave immigration
whilst losing, by neglect, the lives of those born
within our country :
In N.S.W. during the year 1906 the number of deaths
of children under two years of age was 3609 ; of this
number 1096 succumbed to preventable diseases, chiefly
attributable to improper feeding and contaminated or
infected milk. Infected milk means impure milk, not
necessarily milk of poor quality, and it should be possible
to supply pure, clean and uncontaminated milk to all
young children, whose chief article of diet it ought to be.
It is proposed to establish “Milk Depots” in Sydney,
where poor mothers can obtain pure milk for their
infants, either free or at a nominal cost, and where they
can get guidance and instruction in the proper way of
feeding and rearing their children.
These depots were first founded in Paris, and
they now exist in Victoria and Maoriland. Miss
Rawson has your Akenehi’s permission to marry
a Governor, for it will be a regrettable thing to
waste such quantities of specialised information
as she has acquired during her dear old father’s job.
A group of citizens of no mean status fore-
gathered in the Town Hall vestibule on Thurs-
day, put Sir Harry Rawson in the chair, and
proceeded to discuss the proposed Unification of
Charities Fund. His Ex. and Mayor Hughes,
Rev. Mr. Hammond, and Mr. L. F. Heydon
said wise things on behalf of a Charity Saturday.
October 3rd was the date selected for the genesis
of the project, and executive arrangements for
the street collections were thrust on to Mr. Hey-
don. So we will have another Inhospitable
Saturday.
It will be a matter of more than passing interest
to noteif the new Dudley staff adopts the traditional
“Vice-regal Manner.” This “manner” is a
thing apart. There is nothing like it, in all likeli-
hood, outside the great European chancelleries.
Its original introducer to these climes was the
admiraole Wallington. In him it was a thing of
marvellous finish and beauty. He handed it on to
Lord “ Dick ” Nevill, who left portions of it at
the various State Government Houses of the Com-
monwealth. To-day it is an asset no self-respecting
A.D.C. can afford to be without. It is oneof those
intangible things thatishard to nail down forpublic
scrutiny on a newspaper page. A smile of un-
changing, unwearying imperturbability sits on
the face of him who owns it. Nothing surprises
him, nothing disconcerts him. The false front of
Mrs. Blank (of the Bellevue Hill Blanks) falls,
with a decisive splash, into her soup during a
vice-regal food-worry. With the impassive calm
of a Napoleon added to the adroitness of a
Cinquevalli, the aide (provided he possesses the
“manner”) plunges his hand into the scalding
fluid, extracts therefrom the drenched and hence
useless skull decoration, and hurls it to a
place of obscurity beneath the table. Dur-
ing all this delicate time he maintains,
unchecked, a conversation with the lady
on his other side anent the evils of canni-
balism in the Channel Islands. When Blank
at a later stage grows vinously maudlin re-
garding the march of Labor and the present day
impossibility of buying decent whisky, the A.D.C.
speaks soothing words, and at length reduces the
lachrymose oldster to silence—even mayhap wins
a ghastly smile from his lips. The staff official
on the Wallington plan has, in public, no
sense of humor nor any feeling for the tragic in
life. He stands above love, ridicule, censure and
hate. To gossip he presents the blank, unseeing
gaze of the indigenous grande dame who stumbles
into the home-bound tram, and bumps down un-
expectedly opposite the petty trader to whom she
owes coin of the realm. He knows everything
about everyone, and is splendidly ' mute
concerning them all. But the portentous and
awful nature of his embottled lore leaves its mark.
It imbues him inevitably with an air of profound
mystery. I have never met a working ambassa-
dor, but I am sure he comports himself when in
the discharge of his duties even as do these im-
peccable young men. The one is acquainted with
the secrets of Europe ; to the others the hidden
things of Double Bay are as an open book. lam
not curious, but I often have a longing to see
(myself unseen) the staffs on which our Governors
lean with such justifiable confidence conferring
together in private. Are its members still suave,
bland, inscrutable, supernaturally amiable? Or
does a hideous reaction occur, so that they become
for a space perfect fiends ? No outsider will ever
know. The coming Australian dramatist, with
an imagination, may find herein a rich field for
psychological study.
The record act of devotion put up by any
American salt while the U.S.A. Squadron was in
these parts is credited to an officer who became
wildly smitten with the sweet little principal in a
local show. For her dear sake he scooted—
whether with leave or without it didn’t appear—
from Melbourne while his ship was there, put in
as much of Sunday as she would spare him in her
company, and then scooted back again. It is an
ultra-enthusiastic lover who will endure 30 and
odd hours in a mail train for the joy of spending
a section of the Sabbath with his beloved.
From S. M. Herald (5/9/’08): —
DEANE.—August 24 (Fleet Day), at 440 Parramatta-
road, Petersham, the wife of Oliver J. Deane—a
daughter.
“Fleet Day” is a pleasing touch. And yet
August 24 wasn’t Fleet Day ; it was the day of
the Burns-Squires fight.
Mrs. Arthur MacArthur, one of Sydney’s best-
lookers, is on her way back to this city. Mrs.
“Louise” Maclntyre got back by the Orotava,'
last week.
Miss Madge Suttor was married yesterday to her
Asian tea-planter. The Governor-General pair
and Miss Rawson were present, and among the
“numerous and costly” presents the Northcotes’
gift was a brooch.
Among the departers by last week’s American
liner were Mrs. Reiffarth, who played Mrs.
Schultz, the fat lady, for four nights here in
“Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch,” and Miss
Besserer, whose acting with the Anglin co.
in “Zira” made Sydney wonder why she
was ever included in the cast. However, she
has had the trip and the change and the ozone
and all that, so she may have profited, though we
haven’t. And on her way here she had an offer
of marriage from a millionaire who owns a big
island somewhere and lives on his property. Mrs.
Reiffarth went hence because she had seriously
damaged her kneecap before leaving Canned
Beefdom. She was a frank talker, and was proud
of having appeared with Mr. J.C.W. when he was
beginning his career some time in the early
’sixties. I didn’t think any living actress was
born later than 1875.
Mrs. Athol Forde (wife of the actor), who died
in English parts of pneumonia, was a daughter of
Mr. “Jumbo” Armstrong, K.C., of Sydney.
Her marriage to the actor made a little splash in
the local pool some few years ago.
Miss Maisie Le Soeur (of the Meynell and Gunn
co.), that flaxen-haired charmer with the wonder-
ful neck, is rehearsing to play the principal rdle
in “ The Belle of Mayfair ”at the Criterion. It is
sudden promotion for a girl who has not been long
on the stage, but she has shown plenty of ability
for the work.
Inelegant simplicity that does not come from
Paris distinguishes the dressing in “Mrs. Wiggs
of the Cabbage Patch,” now running at Her
Majesty’s. Mrs. Wiggs, Mrs. Eichorn, and Miss
Hazy never once subordinate Truth to Beauty.
This is as it should be. “’Tis first the True and
then the Beautiful,” says the poet—what poet
doesn’t matter (in fact I don’t think there was any
such poet). When the ladies named set out to
select their costumes for the play they were faced
by grave difficulties. Study of the Vatican and
other picture galleries availed not, and on the
mannequins in the solid gold showrooms of New
York Miss Ada Dwyer and her fellow players saw
nothing that would suit them for wedding-guest
garments at Miss Hazy’s bridal. Application to
the antiquarian in charge of the wardrobe of one
of the New York theatres produced, after long
research, two unemotional garments and one ditto
etcetera for the first act. They were a brown
skirt, a red “ waist,” and a wisp of colored cotton,
used promiscuously as a necktie or a waistband,
or otherwise. It was a relation to the handy piece
of furniture which is a looking-glass till you touch
a spring, and then is either a piano or a
plate of soup, according to which spring you
touch. The vivid “waist” is of flannelette,
and both bore the stamp of antiquity
when taken off their pegs many months ago.
Miss Dwyer’s bonnet was originally russet with
touches of gold—but that was before the present
wearer was born. A long line of dramatic
students and old character-actresses had worn
that bonnet until time and use mellowed it into
the bashed and symbolic specimen that now har-
monises so perfectly with the unstudied negligence
of Mrs. Wiggs’ hairdressing and the broomed-up
squalidity of the Cabbage Patch.
Mrs. Eichorn, who has just the height and
figure for an Empire gown of radium satin, put
her long, flat boots (her boots are long and flat,
not the feet inside them) hard down upon her
natural inclination to wear what suited her, and
enclosed the lengthy ossification of her form in a
tight frock of equivocal cream. Her elbows,
shoulders, knees and lack of hips are so angularly
accentuated through the paucity of the two yards
of single-width fabric from which the gown is
fashioned that one wonders if the Scriptural
Valley of Dry Bones was adjacent to the Cabbage
Patch. If so, Mrs. Eichorn is one of its least suc-
cessful resurrections. The other resurrected bones
rose and put on flesh, but Mrs. Eichorn just rose.
Her toque is a manifestation of her virtuous if
acidulated personality. Two drab choux, erect
on long, lean stalks, vibrate upon a patch of rustd
cotton velours. (I am trying to use the best show-
room French.) A less artistic actress might have
used passd flowers. This sharply insighted one
trims with cabbages—to suit the Patch environ-
ment, “ Lord keep me from gettin’ sour,” says
Mrs. Wiggs; and so say all of us.
Three of the quartet of American ad-
mirals wrote appreciatory letters to Miss Ruby
Beckwith Beckett concerning her song, “The
American Flag,” sung at the Citizens’ Concert by
Mr. Charles Rolfe. The words are by an Ameri-
can poet, Joseph Rodman Drake, who lived nearly
a century ago.
The Manning lady (relict of the late Judge,
and not spouse of the still-existent W.R.)
has resigned her job as treasurer of the
Sydney Y.W.C.A. She is a highly esteemed and
popular old dame (alack! that the two things
so rarely march in unison), and is famed
otherwise, chiefly, in that she is the mother of
Miss Clara Manning, lacking whom no vice-regal
function is really complete. The committee of the
Y.W.C.A., led by the Fairfax dowager, fell down in
a body and implored her to remain a vice-president
even if she dropped treasuring, and she, after
reflecting that even Willy Kelly can endure the
brain-strain of being “vice” to fourteen different
suburban swimming clubs, at length accepted. So
the Sydney Y.W.C.A. won’t explode yet awhile.
Mrs. Parkes, an Ulawarra native, cetat 81 years,
scored a riding prize at the recent Parkes
(N.S.W.) show. This is merely mentioned in
passing, by way of proof that all Australians do
not spend their short and useless lives leaning
flaccidly against posts and drinking billy tea.
Sixteen pictures at the Royal Art Society’s
show have found buyers. The National Gallery
has bought two. One is a black-and-white by
Mr. Datillo Rubbo, showing a girl con-
templating souvenirs of her travels—an elephant
from India, a lava vase from Pompeii
(no spoons from the Connecticut) ; the other
an oil “ Study in Brown ” by Mr. Norman Carter.
The “study” is a little girl, also contemplating
(nothing in sight). One beautifully painted hand
droops over a chair-arm ; the other supports the
subject’s chin. The child wears a brown frock,
her slab hair is tied with blue ribbon, and her
dark, Jappy eyes look as though her brain were
doing a hard think while the rest of her took
loafing exercise.
Our old, young friend, the phenomena], if
humorous, tenor, Gerard Kean, sends a pro-
gramme from Cardiff (which, I believe, is an Irish
city in Greece), where he is announced as giving a
second concert.
Thus “ Mario,” from Brisbane :• —
People are whispering- a horrid story of a novelty even-
ing given last week. The guests chose their partners by
menu cards. Thus “ Roast Beef ” was expected to fore-
gather with “Yorkshire Pudding,” and “Tripe” with
“ Onions.” Unfortunately, this brought together a most
exclusive lady and a male person whom she had excluded
from those curious assemblies which wore such a worried
look last winter. The result was a strained silence like
that of a dead world.
Our own Mrs. (Harrow) Ramsay, of Mothers’ Union
fame, goes Londonward this month with her half-dozen
olive branches—just to show the natives what we can do
in Queensland.
It would seem that there’s something distinctly sus-
picious about the new Governor-General, or else why did
they take such precautions to smuggle him out of
Queensland without letting him set foot on it? The
Aorangi was ordered to stop in the bay, and drop him into
the Powerful, lest a stray pressman should catch a single
glimpse of him. Was it imagined that if he saw the loveli-
ness of Brisbane he might refuse to go any further, and
settle down here for the rest of his days?
The long and rather untidy apartment frequented by
the fossilised Geographical Society was packed to the
doors on Wednesday evening when the acting-Premier
(our own sprightly Jimmie Blair) discoursed upon his
recent motor tour, and pointed his remarks by a series of
slides from photographs by journalist-photographer
H. N. Leach. It isn’t often that anything less boring
than an Antarctic trip trimmed with whales is even hinted
at within those walls. Jimmie has come back determined
to fill up the North-West, to hurry on railway construc-
tion, conserve water on the stock routes, and make things
hum generally.
In this city a little while ago a woman with three half-
Mongolians at foot was applying for relief. “ Your
name?” said the officer. “Martha Byrne, yer Worship.”
The Chief glanced at the slant-eyed progeny. “Then
you’ve been married twice.” “ No, yer Worship—it’s this
way—me old man’s name in his own country is Ah Bun,
but in these parts they calls it Byrne. Never a man
have I ever buried as yit.”
The newest engagement out is that of little Miss Ethel
Abercrombie, second daughter of the banker and bowler
of that cognomen, and Wilfred Kilgour, a tennis player
from your parts, who is holidaying here.
The frivol of the week eventuated on Friday night,
when the Slade couple entertained about 100 hesandshes
got up like ghouls and sundries. The disguises (most of
the masks being hidAus and the dominos full and flowing)
were excellent, and at unmasking time almost every one
proved to be dancing with his or her worst enemy.
Several smart tea battles have been put through, of
which that of pretty Mrs. H. I). Cohen was the chief. The
adjuncts included a lovely day, a lovely garden, and a
lovely view ; a military band blew on the necessary wind
instrument; nearly all the gowns were new and smart,
and the plainest woman there was looking her best. (Of
course, there wasn’t any plainest woman, but that is a
figure of speech.)
Pretty Jessie Davies, the only daughter of a load of
Gympie gold, is to be wed on Wednesday next. Miss
Missionary Young (with her specs worn lower on her nose
than ever) has returned for the summer months from
dinning the fear of God into the Malaita niggers. Fur-
thermore, four new political leagues have cropped up like
mushrooms since the rain.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


CARRY
DISEA
The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
f. V’-jf-t s
&T-* f- '
Jr - i;
i/ ;
n
z v;
?<; ? ! J
/Y
//
I ?/.M
?/;■£. . / /
' ~<U
m£t
P 5
m
1
©
Evfery Fly is a
Mmv Killer
at HeArt.”
IT’S hairy body carries both disease
and death. Having its origin in
tilth, it brings with it the baderia
which breeds in filth. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over the food of the table, flying from the lips of the sicK to
the lips of the healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
The high mortality among children in the congested
districts of a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
living rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
the fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when the
flies abound.
Is the Greatest KILLER.
of FLIES other Insedls.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious*
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale :
ELLIOTT 81V05.,
Australian Drug Coy.
SYDNEY.


DUNLOP
MOTOR
TYRES
£5
&
ffl
rp
Give the longest wear
on Australian roads.
ALWAYS RELIABLE. ALWAYS DURABLE.
REPAIRS and RE-TREADING
a Speciality.
Our Artistic Motor Booklet should be In
the hands of every Motorist.—Posted on
Application
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO,
Melbourne, Bydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
i-fr 0
DUNLOP
IMINING
GOODS
comprising SUCTION & OTHER HOSES,
VALVES, PACKINGS, RUBBER and
BALATA BELTING are now used on
most of the leading Australasian
Mines, because they are the Best.
We are now doing 75% of the Rubber
Goods trade of Australasia, the
result of selling only high-grade
Goods at reasonable prices.
Tenders and Samples Submitted.
Catalogues Posted.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 7, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik,—
The Fleet has gone, and has left breathing
space in Melbourne. It has also left some de-
jected remnants of flap, some broken bones, and
some heads that wont fit any hat unless it is a
coalscuttle. It seems to me that the head which
paid for the drinks and stayed behind is more
swollen than the head that was supposed to have
consumed the drinks —the one that went away.
The average Yankee proved a cool, careful
drinker. According to a man crony, an Austra-
lian’s stiff whisky-and-soda was mostly balanced
by an American’s lager, and a “ pony” at that.
Yet a certain proportion of Jack was badly
bowled over towards the last. Ho much free
canteen and an overdose of shaking hands with
a Premier made him object to the prospective
monotony of scrubbing decks and polishing gun
trappings. He deserted (consciously or uncon-
sciously) in hundreds. Quite obviously for
publicity, it was announced that a battle-boat
would “stay over” Sunday to “pick up the
American mails.” There was no ’Murkan mail
due, but there were a lot of males very much
overdue. They were being shipped aboard- in
dazed quantities from Port Melbourne launches to
the left-behind Kansas all Saturday. Patrols
raked the byways and highways, and secured the
help of the languid, after-the-Fleet bobby by a
promise of £1 per man. The hilarious deserters
will be put in irons and landed at Manila or some
such depressing spot until their rightful boats
arrive. One sailor was torn from the loving arms
of his three days’ bride and hurried away to the
gloom of his dungeon.
The folk of the Fleet most curiously fin-feted
were the Five Wilful Wives. They fretfully said
they wanted a “quiet time,” and they got it.
One solitary function was functed, or funked, for
their benefit—or in their honor. That was a
chooky-hen farewell at the Austral Salon on Fleet
Friday—a warm, stodgy tea-and-talk in the buried
caverns of Flinders Dane, from which even the
Salon-Elect held aloof. The State and Senate
Wives opened their arms to the amazons in
Sydney, but some coolness arose between our
society dames and the Five Wives of the Fleet,
and in Melbourne they were systematically
ignored. They never appeared on the dais in
the gilded halls of revelry, they never danced
with the Governor in an official set. Nor did
they have the cushioned seats at concerts or
lunch-de-luxe at the races. There were no cosy,
select pamperings in Tooraketty mansions, nor
rushing about in the swagger smoothness of pri-
vate motors. They wanted a quiet time—but,
doubtless, they did not count on the coffined quiet
of lonely people amid the rushing crowd of a
packed city hotel.
It is understood that Melbourne scored at least
one notable naval engagement as the result
of the Fleet festivities. A gallant officer of
the U.S. persuasion met his mash in a maiden of
the Grice clan, who has the advantage of money
on her side, and they parted with mutual vows of
matrimonial intentions. Meanwhile, a lot of
ocean rolls between the loving hearts.
Food—food—food —innumerable food, and pro-
vender that was like unto the sands of the Ninety
Mile Beach for numerousness were thrust at the
surfeited Fleeters throughout their stay. The
officers cursed below their breath and went with
smiles, like men to their “dooty,” when ordered ;
the sailors rose in quite obvious protest. One big
Feed—a, banquet set for some 1200 sailors at the
Exhibition —brought a solitary guest, who was
fed and stodged by all the waiters till his eyes
bulged with fatness. lam told he left on all
fours. It was like a nightmare—rows of set
tables loaded with food, and no grnests. The
Prime Minister snatched a hurried moment
to run up and “say a word” and give a toast.
There was no one to clasp a “ hand across the
sea,” or do a “ Hail Columbia,” or star a spangled
banner. Certain high jinks had been arranged to
follow in the Oval of the Exhibition, to which the
public was admitted. The public, blewing a
shilling on the show, was amazed at being dragged
forcibly into a sumptuous supper. It tilled itself
and gasped with mouth full, “ Blime—l didn’t
know a spread was included in the tickkut.”
A Naval Ball was the event of the mad time.
The officers of the Cerberus were the hosts, and
they let loose all the magnificence possible to a
naval club when it gets really going. The Cer-
berus could not have found deck space for half the
guests, so the Williamstown Drill Hall was fur-
bished up. Torpedoes and cannon and lethal
things were an effective background to the
glitter of uniform. In the dressing-room, you
looked for a mirror and came face to face with
the gaping mouth of the weapon at which the
bubble reputation is said to have been garnered,
but the cannon looked like a tame tiger with a
fan, or a sixty-button-glove, or a priceless wisp
of lace scarf dumped down on its grim nozzle.
Admiral Sperry had been At Home on the
Connecticut till late in the afternoon ; the gaud-
Mayor Weedons were receptioning directly after
dinner at .the Town Hall. So youthful' guests
booked dances on the Connecticut for the evening,
devoured their dinners, and “went on ” from the
reception to Williamstown. The rain poured in
torrents, enough to kill anything save a naval
frisk—but “the Boys” rose to great heights as
hosts. They put up an avenue of arched tarpaulin
along the paths, over the railway bridge, and
along more path—right from the station to the
very doors of the hall, so that shoes and frocks
could trip uncrushed and undamped into the
ballroom. Mere civilian Man had a bad time.
Even his booked dances were written over in the
most brazen way by a Dootenant This or Captain
That, and there is not an engagement or friend-
ship left ashore that is not chipped or cracked or
frayed or smashed for good. A jolly little Ben-
digo girl, daughter of the late brewer Illingworth,
of the Golden City, came with the Quicks of
Bendigo, and took the wreath as favorite. She
never moved a step of the floor without a body-
guard of at least half-a-dozen devotees, who said
“ sure.” Tettie Appleton, Major Appleton’s only
chick, had a gay time with silver grapes in her hair.
Admiral Sperry had Lady Carmichael to help
him through the opening Lancers. The Governor
led the stately Mrs. Deakin ; and Stella Deakin,
with her warm, brown hair and creamy robes,
made a youthful partner for an official set with a
rear-admiral. Official sets are always most pon-
derous, but every move is gaped at from the bal-
conies and floor-sides by hundreds of frozen
dancers. On Thursday night the girls and their
officers were not so easily subdued. They made
up round dances to each figure ; they waltzed to
the first, did a two-step or a barn-dance to the
second, and something between a gallop and a
polka to the third. While the upper end
of the room was laboriously working its gor-
geous and ponderous way through the Lancers,
the rest of the space was a mad cor-
roboree of whirling finery and encircling
gold-striped arm. The debutantes were the
funniest thing—there were rows and rows and
rows, like rather tired angels in white, and they
worked a pageant march up and round the room,
and towards the dais, Governor, and Admiral.
Some of these damsels should be thinking of
their ballet rdle as newly-blossomed
buds. They coyly blossom out so often—when-
ever there is likely to be a good house.
The Forrest Lady was garbed in rather weary
white. Mrs. Isaacs had a mermaidy look in green,
and Mrs. Donald McKinnon blazed in jewels
and some brocady background. But the
chaperones were driven to shelter by the mad
surf swirl of pretty girl and gold-laced man.
Every pretty girl in Victoria (and some from
other States as well) dazzled in the excitement
of that dance ; each had her particular
officer culled from the introductions of former
gaieties. Mrs. John Quick brought Miss Heiress-
11l mgworth, a most charming girl, dazzling in
white and gold. Mrs. Kirby had an auburn-
haired Brunhilde, Miss Read, under her wing;
also three of the Sunnyside Young daughters,
one decked in Dolly Varden brocade that was
stiff enough to stand by itself when its small
occupant grew tired. Mrs. Carlowie-Grant
trailed peach-colored crepe in the balconies.
The floor was left to the young and enthusiastic
and energetic, who didn’t mind scraped shoulders
and - torn frjlls in the packed crowd. Frank
Walker, a young man with an occasional inspira-
tion of an Idea, worked out a scheme of decora-
tion that would have startled the stodgy
Town Hall if it had time to think of
anything but Officer. The ball was the
gayest thing it has seen or felt for years.
Some supper tables were on the pavilioned bal-
conies that look on Collins-street. There was
a French-Revolution atmosphere in the hoots and
stage-rumbles of yells that came from the madly
excited crowds in the streets below. Coming and
going to and from shivoos was a matter of no
small risk. Everybody started for functions as
early as possible, and put the time of getting
there in the hands of Providence and the coach-
man or the “ toot-toot” person. The crowd was
the Deity, and it had to be humored and
placated. Heard one American say, ‘‘lt is
easier to get into Heaven than to this shivoo—-
but I meant to get here, even if the Devil
helped.”
Mrs. Senator Keating chaperoned Prime
Minister Deakin’s daughter Stella, and her
own sister, a sweet little debutante of scarcely
seventeen with a dazzling Tasmanian complexion.
Mr. Keating’s sister was with the party also, and
a pretty girl in a telling red frock and plump
shoulders. Even Clarence Weber, the golden-
haired muscle-culturist, shared the fate of other
mere civilians, and was for the moment of no con-
sequence compared with the Zootenants who
drawled sweet nothings through their noses. One
of the golden-haired Evans girls waltzed her
way like a divinity, draped in rather strident
yellow. It was late when launches shot out into
the blackness and motors whizzed abroad, and
then the Cerberus men capped their hospitality
by adding special late trains to the service.
Mrs. Senator Keating—who is just a pretty
girl herself—chaperoned half-a-dozen Melbourne
beauties through a jolly campaign. She took a
launch full of pretty girl to tea aboard the Wis-
consin on Fleet Sunday afternoon, at the invita-
tion of certain officers whom she had befriended
in Sydney. Two winsome Fitzgerald girls hooked
a couple of officers without a squirm or wriggle,
and took them home to Sunday supper at their
St. Kilda Esplanade home.
Certain wealthy Toorak houses and hostesses
spread themselves on the Sunday for the reception
of United States officers to lunch. The Grices
had their best chooky in aspic, and the Staugh-
tons spread for quite 100 guests. Not one turned
up. The tragedy of it! Some mistake in the in-
vitations. All the “quality” of Melbourne were
’phoning wailfully to each other. It was the same
in every hosting house. One household grabbed
a quartette of Zootenants for late afternoon tea,
and they had about all the luck that was going.
The drooping, dejected bunting—the flags, and
the weary shapeless kangaroos (one of them is
located over the doorway of the Stock Exchange),
and the eagles that wave limp Union Jacks and
Stars-and-Stripes from convenient shelves along
the streets —all those relics of a bygone outbreak
are doomed to another week of lingering existence.
Then they will be expected to get up fresh en-
thusiasm and “ Oorav” the approaching Governor-
General. If the stuffed monstrosities could talk
the language of Divine William, they would quote
Desdemona’s line—“l do perceive a divided
duty,” or else mention Hamlet’s remark about
the baked meats which did a second term of ser-
vice.
Crowds of Fleet-bitten girls got up on Saturday
morning, as for the mournful catching of an early
country train, and went to the edges of our Bay
to wave a heart-broken umbrella to the departing
Armada. They saw nothing but a glimmering
outline of majestic hulls, and even that only
appeared when the salute moved the mist for a
few moments.
Saturday night’s theatres sagged tiredly after
the flitting. The chief point of glitter to catch
the eye in the audience was Burns, in immaculate
evening toggery, and his wife. So far as I know,
Lang didn’t get into his dress suit and go to the
play.
The city newsboys will have cause to bless the
Fleet. The annual ball in their aid is usually a
whirl of giddy society gaiety, but this time, with
half a squadron of officer as an extra attraction,
the half guineas fluttered in like a fly army storm-
ing the battlements of a pot of honey. I saw a
ticket marked No. 2700 while the sale was still
rampant.
Melbourne Girl had the time of her life. All
the admirals and captains and almost every officer
looked in for at least a couple of dances. The
Savage Club, in its rooms opposite, was giving a
birthday party to Admiral Sperry, and practically
the whole Fleet called in detachments, and the
officers crossed back and forth in uncloaked
glamor all the evening.
“ Fleet week ” ended in fireworks and a “Feast
of Lanterns ” that made the Albert Park lagoon a
dream of beauty. Among the many thousands
the Jackies seemed few and far between. But
they were there, very much so ! Every rocket
revealed tender scenes. Only here and there a
girl had secured the attentions of a sailor boy all
to herself. Most of the men walked with
two girls—an arm round each ! One pair
looked really sad ; the girl was pretty and
the curly-headed sailor was very much in
love. As the band played something soulful
and dreamy the girl sighed, and the Jackie
edging up nearer, whispered : “Say, honey, cheer
up—guess I’ll tend you a post-caard from the
next port.” Which, to say the least, will be a
nice cheap consolation for the lass that wails
when the sailor sails. And now the Melbourne
flapper can cast the American colors from her
chest, shake the confetti from her “ Fleet ” cos-
tume, and resume her usual occupation of chasing
college boys and missing trains. And the recital
of “ When the Warships Came ” will be something
to tell her grandchildren in the winter evenings
in the year 1952.
Tommy Burns is a Johnnie or a Willy-boy.
His “stripping ” in the ring is a ceremony of em-
broidered rites. The usual bruiser or plugger
turns up in a loose topcoat which he peels in
two flicks of an eye. At the big Melbourne fight
Burns turned up in immaculate morning dress with
collar and correctly-jewelled cravat, and the cere-
monious “ peeling ” took so much time that the
gaping, staring, human block of watchers
danced with impatience. Lang, already strip-
ped, muffled himself again in his overcoat
and was steadily drained of his nerve
in the deliberate draggy time while Burns’s valet
carefully folded his Bashship’s overcoat, hung up
the garment with dignity and with all the im-
pressiveness due to the rite, settled the correct
crease of the shed trousers, and put the shiny
patent leathers on their trees. It was a weary,
silly clothes function.
One who signs himself “ Weary Willie ” sends
this :
The Argus has of late been running a column for
women, in which considerable reference has been made
to the “ new figure.” I used to understand that this
“new figure” is obtained by rolling upon barrels, by
spreading oneself in painful positions across a bare floor,
by the application of hot irons, and by other strenuous
methods. Not at all! I am now informed by—l should
say I understand that the secret of the “new figure” is
to be found in the corset-parlor, and there only. 801 l
on, ye mighty misses, roll on—and yet, with all your roll-
ing, shall no novel curves be added to your figures. With
the choosing of the proper shape and the adjustment of
the rigging, fore and aft and to port and starboard, the
most luxurious hip-expanses may be trimmed into up-to-
date symmetry. Owning some little knowledge of these
matters, I might be permitted to remark that the youth
and beauty of the present season should discard the
Argus and take “ Slimness, not Thinness ! ” as their
watchword.
One of the sacrifices to that mammoth holiday
crowd was lawyer George Turner, son of good
old Knight Turner. In the scramble for a
packed midnight train he fell and was terribly
injured. He died shortly afterwards in the
hospital.
A belated item from Brisbane :
I got an early glimpse of Governor-General Dudley on
Sunday morning on board the Aorangi at Pinkenba
before the arrival of the local Excellency and the official
party. He is very good-looking, with a thick-set figure,
and he wore rough grey tweeds and a jaunty straw
surrounded by a gay brown-and-orange college band.
Owing to a mishap at school, and some shocking surgery,
he is slightly lame, but the trouble is barely noticeable.
He defied all the regulations about not setting foot in
Queensland, and strolled around the unlovely spot while
awaiting the arrival of.the Lucinda, bearing his local Ex,
and aeting-Premier Blair. It seems a happy accident
that his new G.-G. should have been greeted by a young
Queenslander instead of by an imported article. Later,
his Ex. embarked on board the Lucinda and lunched with
the Chelmsford couple; took a stroll through the
Gardens, and left to join the P’a’hf’l in the late afternoon.
Coming over, his Ex. proved himself a real sport, and a
good friend to two stowaways (if report be true), pay'ing
half passages for them both in order to assuage the cap-
tain’s wrath.
“No,” said the fat woman to me sadly, “I
ain’t enjoying meself a little bit.” As she spoke
she hitched a huge basket, which she held on her
lap, and a weird little jangling smote the air.
I had been sitting on the wet station for half-an-
hour, and would have hailed a Red Indian with
cheers. So I held out the chocolate bag with a
soothing smile. “ I don’t mind ef I do, Miss,
thank yer,” she said, dipping a tired, black-
gloved hand in the sweets. “Yer see, it’s
this way. We ain’t been long in town. We
’ad a ’ay an’ corn store up country, but
my old man he says ‘ Let’s go to town ; the
children will be better taught—they’re missing all
the new sorts of tricks they learn there now.’ . . .
Well, we come, and a nice time I have. School!
—why, bless you, it’s a pantomime the kids go to !
When I’m not making maypole frocks, the whole
place smells of paint, and you fall over dumb-
bells and sticks —they call them wands—all sticky.
Got to be the same color as their frocks. And I
sit up till all hours sewing spangles onartmusling
till I feel fair sick. This ’ere ” (she shook the
basket fiercely) “is a Folly costume. Last
year they was all dressed as Perrots —and
ugly they looked, I’ll say that for them.
Not a ha’porth of work will one of them do at
home ; it’s practice this drill, and that drill. And
as for taking a broom, and sweeping up the yard
of a Saturday morning—not much. Oh yes, I
s’pose it does make them nice and straight. I
ain’t what you would call hunchbacked, but I
never got time for that tomfool fancy work. Well,
’ere’s my trine, Miss; I’ll say good morning.”
The fat woman climbed into a second-class
smoker and disappeared.
But I met her again, when, to the tune of
“Swing Me Higher,” thousands of little arms
reached towards the blue sky, in perfect time,
swinging the white clubs like one pair. And the
sun glinted down on every color of the rainbow,
and the tired crowd cheered itself hoarse in wild
admiration of the kiddies’ display. A weary
voice sighed behind me —it was the fat woman.
“There they go,” she sniffed to a companion,
“like a silly lot of windmills. And what I would
like to know is—’Ow are all them girls going ter
be settled in life ?” But the other woman rattled
the bag that held the peanut fruit, and answered
never a word.
Heard over the much-taxed telephone: “Want
you to come to a blow out, old chap—two pretty
girls.” “Can’t really, old chappie,” squeaked the
answer. “I’ve only got short pants.” “Short
pants!!! What the do you mean?” “Oh
(chuckle, chuckle) travelled down as a cadet—
saved me train money.”
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The Appendreena Amateur Dramatic Club, which is
the chief of mumming institutions in our State, burst
into a great invitation spree at the Walkerville Institute
t’other Saturday, and the whole adjacent landscape was
lined with motors, broughams, and other wheeled vehicles,
and all was frill and flutter. Arrangements were most
intense. The hall is a good one, well-lighted and one of
the few local barns in which the acoustic properties are
not chronically cronk. There was a string band to play
“Merry Widow” waltzes and other heavenly refrains
between the acts. The play staged was “The
Guv’nor,” a drama in which everybody gets mixed
up, and no one knows exactly who is which. Mr.
Talbot Smith played the Guv’nor excellently' ; he
was decked with intense grey' sideboards and the
mincing accent of the superiah person. Another triumph
was secured by Mr. N. M. Hack as a Yorkshire groom,
whose chief business was to keep his mouth open and
look idiotic, and who achieved the deed with much eclat.
Mr. Keg Sabine, as a stuttering y'outh, was in violent
love with Miss Ethel Kidings, as the natural and pretty
daughter of an ancient, deaf father (Mr. Norman
Malcolm). Good work as the Guvnor’s young wife was
done by that clever young damsel, Miss "Muriel Craigie.
The audience contained some Croziers and some
certain Hacks, a few' Deans and Hall-Hendersons, several
Boothby girls—in fact, most people whose names are con-
sidered a decoration to the town.
Only expert swimmers were admitted to the Derb.v this
y'ear, for obvious reasons. It was the boss flood of the
age, and each of the horses carried a lifebelt. One
jockey' was washed off the deck of his steed and nearly
drowned, and another horse had its mainsail carried away.
In town, an Eight Hours procession walked dejectedly
through the bogs, with ribbons trailing and muddy, and
all its hair dank and out of curl. Forty thousand drag
picnics or so dragged themselves home in a temper ; and
down at Morphettville a few strenuous males and a much-
coated girl or two shivered in the stand. Half-a-dozen
disreputable-looking motors churning their way home
through a tangled wilderness of mud were the only evi-
dence to show there had been any Derby.
The Tarantelle Dance, always a well-manipulated
function, is timed for September 28. It is committeed
by mere men, who squander their shekels royally over it.
There has just died in Scotland, aged 74, H. O. Swan,
well known in S.A. squattocratic circles since the dark,
dim ages. He came to the Province (this was never a
colony) in 1854, and squatted at Mattawarungla Station,
when he was a mere infant of 20. Other stations he
owned at sundry times were Angorichina, Boolaparinga
and Mallee Cliffs. In later years Mr. Swan was stipend-
iary magistrate in the South-East, but retired in 1904.
Twelve months ago he and his family went off for a two
years’globe-jaunt, which in his case has been cut short.
Adelaide ’Varsity undergraduates are waving the flag of
triumph just now. First of all, the University of an
obscure village called Melbourne—you may have heard of
the place—sent a team of hockey amazons to challenge
Adelaide’s brilliant daughters, and Adelaide’s brilliant
daughters routed them with very great slaughter, and
captured many fugitives. Then the same inflated hamlet
sent its ’Varsity team to challenge Adelaide’s intellectual
sons at lacrosse, and Adelaide’s intellectual sons wiped
the premises with them. The boys celebrated by burst-
ing into a concert, last week, in aid of their Sports Asso-
ciation.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
The matinee hat conies in for some much-meriterl dis-
respect these days. The Parisian police led off by for-
bidding “ annoyance to spectators, especially by hats of
unreasonable dimensions.” New York theatres now post
notices denying admittance to “ hats exceeding 32in. in
diameter,” except at Wednesday matinbes, when the head-
gear spread in unrestricted. In London, it is proposed to
confine big hats to one inatinbe weekly, and prohibit
them entirely at every other performance.


r
J
1/
4=
4
ft
//
/
:
0
f
•a
i
o
&
/
A
V
A
%
fi
X
¥.
i\
*
st
S
\
k
M
W
rw
qui
fit}
K
m
aojv
oil
By Royal Warrant
to His Majesty the King.
Black Bottle
The Scotch Whisßy of Great Age
Popular the World Over


There is one tabernacle, the Congrega-
tional, at Port Adelaide (S.A.), which hates
variety ; so two parsons have done its piloting for
st> years. J. C. Kirby, who has served the latter
half of the time, has just retired. He was a tre-
mendously energetic little man who believed in
politics. Whenever he wanted any political work
done he formed himself into a league, and elected
himself president, and wrote to the papers, and
trailed his new “ honor ” after his name. Thence-
forward his new league thundered away in the
press—and generally nobody but J. C. Kirby
knew that there wasn’t a soul in the league
besides himself —at the start, anyway.
Mr. H. F. Morley, reader and clerk of
records of the Victorian Assembly, has completed
50 years of service. He entered the Government
Printing Office as a lad in 1858, when long-haired
John Ferris was Government Printer, and Moon,
husband of Octavia Hamilton, the vocalist, was
chief clerk. When the Government Printing
Office was burned down in 1880, and reorganisa-
tion took place, Morley was promoted to a reader-
ship in the Assembly, and he has held it ever since.
One Simpson, master mariner, arrived in
Australia lately in command of the Aberdeen
White Star monster Pericles. Simpson is
probably the father of his profession or there-
abouts. It was in 1865 that, as skipper of the
Queen of Nations, he first brought a vessel to Aus-
tralia, and in the intermediate 43 years he has
regularly and annually brought some ship or other
here ; sometimes he has brought more than one
in the same year. His first command was a
cockboat of 836 tons. The Pericles is 11,400 tons.
And Simpson, master mariner, looks as if he
might live to bring out an 80,000-ton steamer or a
lOcwt. air-ship.
m
Buy an Edison Phonograph
for the Summer Time.
Very soon the hot days and nights will be here, and you’ll be
glad to sit in the coolest spot you can find.
Wouldn’t it be grand if you could be thus comfortably situated,
and yet hear a first-class entertainment at the same time 1
With an Edison Phonograph you can make home the happiest
place on earth. You can keep the children and visitors in the
best of moods by providing them with an entertainment as varied
as anyone could desire. The Edison reproduces in a perfect manner,
and its fund of entertainment is simply inexhaustible.
Don’t you think such an instrument would be a grand thing
to have this summer 1 You will not need to rush away and sit
in a crowded theatre, but just in the pleasantest part of your home you
can listen to the most successful artists of the musical world.
Write us to-day—now—for complete lists of machines and
records. We will also tell you the name of your nearest dealer, so
that you can call and hear the genuine Edison Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
AN ELECTRIC BATTERY
m
at Small Cost.
You cannot hope for anything simpler or more
economical than the Jerdan “Home” Battery.
It has no wearing parts—no liquids to bother with—
is easily controlled by the person, using it —is
compact—and has no delicate mechanism that
might be easily broken.
A few pence now and again for fresh, dry cells is the
only expense—beyond that it costs nothing to
operate.
Price 35/- post free.
Send for the Battery. If it doesn’t substantiate our
statement we will refund your money.
JERDANS
(OSBORN and JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Makes you look manly.
That Old Moustache Joke.
That old joke about your moustache being like a
cricket match —“ eleven-a-side ” —won’t apply
any longer when once
you start using ... .
CAPILLARINE
Price 10/6
To any part of
the World.
CAPILLARINE will soon alter your appearance by producing: a handsome
moustache with no other trouble than just rubbing: a little on every night
before retiring. Used for a Quarter-Century with Complete Success.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 D George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
Apparently people can afford to remain
alive in Australia since Federation happened. In
1901, the first year of Federation, births in the
Commonwealth numbered 102,945; in 1907 they
were 110,347, an increase of 7402. In 1901 deaths
were 46,330 ; in 1907 they were 45,305, a decrease
of 1025. So the surplus of births over deaths was
56,615 in 1901, and 65,042 in 1907, an improvement
of 8427, and, thanks to the greater prosperity of
the people under Federation, and their greater
capacity to buy the necessary table and two chairs
marriages also increased greatly—from 27,753 in
1901 to 32,470 in 1907.
“ Bloggs ” writes :
It was most dejecting to note the utter inability of the
just-departed Nasal crowd to grasp that the local British
ships (such as they are) are our ships, our defenders, our
steel walls, and all the other things little Willy Kelly and
the S. M. Herald tell their acquaintances these vessels
are. They insisted on regarding them as casual iron-
mongery belonging to someone else. To a man the Yankees
appeared obsessed with the idea that Australia is an
utterly undefended country. In this connection I endured
a somewhat telling rebuke from one of our visitors. He
admired, at a public function, one of our local maidens,
and said he would like to meet her and show her over his
ship. I said that could be arranged, and added, wag-
gishly, the more or less true statement that her father
was a millionaire. Said he: “Waal, Ah guess we’ve a
millionaire or two in my country as well. Naow, battle-
ships are things you haven’t got. It just struck me the
young lady might like to see one.” It was kindly done ;
yet I led him to the young female person’s side, feeling a
demoralised and trodden-upon worm.
Mr. E. Fink, Doolbi, Isis, Q., says
“Mrs. Fink has given the children Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy and says it gives the quickest
relief of any medicine she has tried.”*
Something rather unique, and the like of which
has probably never been seen in Australia before, is at the
present time being displayed in the window of Mr.
Morton, chemist and druggist, 246 George Street, Sydney.
It is a magnificently-framed certificate from the Royal
Palace of Madrid, in Spain, by favor of which Messrs.
Scott and Bowne Limited, the manufacturers of that
world-famed remedy, “Scott’s Emulsion,” are appointed
providers to the Spanish Royal Household. It speaks
much for the world-wide popularity and genuineness of a
preparation such as “ Scott’s Emulsion ” that it is to be
found in every known portion of the globe, and from the
monarch’s palace down to the humble dwellings of the
poor.*
m
“ No cooking,
add water j
IS AN
. IDEAL FOOD
f for infants, in
~valids, convales-
cents, and the
aged. Easily di-
, strem
gested
soothing.
/The
/ food
/ that
/ never
/ fails or
disagrees.
Prepared
from healthy
cow’s milk, malted
barley and wheat.
Sold by all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail
Stores, &c., &c.
Samples: 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
Horliek's Food Co., Slough, Bucks, England.
The Inky Way.
“Colin Street”: Looking back at the Sydney tram
strike and the newspaper headings appertaining
thereto, one is reminded of the fact that journalism did
its level best to keep the fire burning. All sorts of
troubles were feared in those catchpenny cross-head-
ings. Sympathetic trades unions were about to in-
flict a terrible blow on the spinal cord of commerce, and
a general paralysis of the body politic was predicted—
by the newspapers. It was not tlieir fault that the
telephone and telegraph wires were not cut. Somebody
was interviewed on the question as to whether the wires
could be easily severed, and his alarming “ Yes” was re-
ported with great gusto—by the newspapers. Events
that never came to pass were darkly foreshadowed.
When the strike blew out, and the last mutterings of the
storm had ceased, there was still something to be done.
Special reporters were sent forth, with their note-
books, to gather up the fragments of the calamities
which hadn’t occurred. One gets a lot of excitement out
of the things that don’t happen when the Australian Par-
liament isn’t sitting and the United States Fleet hasn’t
yet steamed into the foreground. For there was a time
before the Fleet, as surely as there was a period before the
Flood. And there will come a time after the Fleet when
the sight of any Australian newspaper dated August,
1908, will melt us to tears. At present the nearest and
most pathetic of such retrospects is provided by the
tramway strike.
* * * *
“Acacia”: Last year Fitchett, of Life and The New
Idea, asked for original stories, illustrated articles, photo-
graphs and cover designs for his publications. A hundred
pounds in prizes were offered for the best short stories,
“ good fiction—humorous, but not flippantly irreverent”
being required. Each story had to run to about
5000 words. A prize of £l5 was offered for the
best story, and 15 prizes of £5 each were
to be given to the 15 second-raters. Five third
prizes of four years’ subscription to both magazines were
consolation for the third-raters. That was in January.
In August a waiting public learned the results. No story
submitted reached the prize standard which the office
had erected for itself, so'the editor reluctantly exercised
his right not to award any prizes. But he decided to pur-
chase 10 of the stories at £‘2 25., and to add one guinea to
each of them as a “ prize.” Thus he has given three guineas
each for the publication rights of a number of stories
which weren’t worth the humblest of his prizes. The
entrants for the article contest (£lO first prize, and five
second prizes of £5 each) had the same dreadful luck.
No prizes were awarded. But four articles are to be paid
for at the rate of £3 3s. each, the money “ covering the
right of publication.” The cover and photo competition
was likewise a failure, so the mozzle of the competition
was out something terrible ; £lO was offered for the best
set of six photographs, and £3 3s. was given to two
persons, £1 Is. to another, and 10s. 6d. to two more.
And there are carpers who say the Religious Editor
doesn’t know his job, and is unfitted to cope with the
hard, worldly cunning of the unrighteous layman.
* * * *
Brisbane Sun, the one-time strenuous Kidstonite paper,
started two years ago by bard Francis Kerina, has suffered
yet another change of editors. The new man is A. G.
Davies, from the local Telegraph. The Sun is remem-
bered principally because of the way it ratted to Philp
the Unspeakable before last election, and it seems to now
screw its neck in all directions while trying to find out
from which direction the dead financial calm is blowing.
* * * *
A. J. Cumming, who has gone north from Sydney to
take up the work of Government Printer in Queensland, put
up a sort of a record on the Australian Star. A few years
ago, while he was in charge of the men who make all the
mistakes that ever get into the papers, a strike of com-
positors was threatened over the co.’s refusal to pay £3
10s. alleged to be due for overtime. Cumming
begged the men not to strike, and undertook that, if he
could not get the £3 10s. passed, he would go on strike
himself. He couldn’t get the £3 10s. passed, whereupon
he did go on strike, and stayed out for about nine months.
The co. by that time had thought better of it, so it paid
the money, and Cumming was reinstated.
* * *
“ L.E. ” writes : “Ejayem” talks rather unkind non-
sense re Maurice Brodzky, late editor of Table Talk, who
is doing well in London. First, he was not mean. Few
Melbourne journals pay lordly rates, but the old T.T.
editor, when the spirit or the circulation moved, was
capable of a generous burst which was sudden and eccen-
tric. His business methods were vague and unscientific,
yet, like most editors, he had the curious delusion that
he was a model business man. He didn’t speak stage
German. He spoke, read and wrote with ease English,
French and German, not to mention Hebrew, of which
his knowledge was deep and scholarly. His extempore
translations of Isaiah were to be remembered. Isaiah
didn’t sell the paper : and, like most editors (sordid souls),
Brodzky held the commonplace theory that a paper is
meant to sell. So he dropped Isaiah and concentrated
himself on the absorbing topic as to whether next
month some star actress would be living in Rich-
mond or South Yarra. Table Talk wasn’t a satisfac-
tory paper (it is worse now). It was too spotty.
Yet it battled along for over 20 years, with some flashes
of success; so the editor was not such a failure in the
matter of organisation as “Ejayem” says. Certainly
there was no order in the office, but that made things
more interesting. Nobody knew what was going to
happen next. The editor, who was a brilliant talker, was
always ready for a rambling discussion on the Cosmos,
which usually sent the paper late to press, but supplied
the necessary stimulus to raw and enthusiastic ink-
slingers. Maurice Brodzky was widely read in four liter-
atures, had travelled much, had had strange experi-
ences, knew eccentric characters, and had an inexhausti-
ble fund of odd-corner anecdote, which he should have
written instead of trying “to sell the paper” by Anec-
dotal Interviews with People Who Didn’t Matter. And,
finally, I contend he could pick good men. He picked
his son Leon. And he picked me. Then he had to go out
of the business.
* * * *
“Wayfarer ” : When you leave sunny Australia you pay
all sorts of prices for the blushing pink paper whose name
I shan’t mention except by accident. Have just returned
from a trip to the Old Cold Country to see the Exhibition
which I never saw. The opening day I was down with
’flu’, which is the daily disease there, but my father went
—he is interested in such things. We were surprised to
find him return speedily, using bad language, although
he rarely swears. Then my brother went. He returned
early, and used worse language. That settled me ; for
these two have been to every big Exhibition for the last
20 years. Well, in London, being economical, I
bought the Australian paper from the club, a week late,
for the price of a colonial beer. Journeying overland to
Brindisi to catch my boat, I bought a copy in Paris at one
franc (10d.). In Vevey (Switzerland), with stamp and tax
amounting to 90 centimes (9d.), it ran to Is. 3d. (Six-
nennv mags, sell there at Is. 4d.) At Genoa I could not
purchase it. The following week, at Brindisi, I just
missed the purchase of the last one in the shop ; it had
been sold at Is. At Port Said I did a bargain at lid. At
Colombo I secured a Bulletin and a S. M. Herald for a
waistcoat. The native runner preferred that to money—
waistcoats mean dignity. Trousers don’t matter —they
don’t wear ’em.
*■ * » *
Yarrabah (N.Q.) Anglican Mission boasts a Binghi
preacher, and it has a newspaper, the Aboriginal News,
printed by four black brudders.
* » •* *
“ Harrison O.” : A sad feature of Victorian journalism
is the Melbourne Herald’s sporting page, which is the
“ feature ” of the paper’s Saturday evening edition. On
it may be found reports of all the League and Association
football struggles waged that day. First the premiership
lists are printed, then the public is informed whether or not
it has been raining during the day. It is then enlightened
regarding the state of each ground upon which a match
was played, the personnel of all the teams is supplied,
and the place on the ground in which each man played.
The scores are printed in large block type, and a list of
the goal-kicKers for each team is appended. Very divert-
ing is the news-slab entitled “ The Play.” Here the bright
young boy-reporter is suffered to give a vivid word-
picture of the scrimmage, and incidentally air his opinions
as to what Henry Young should have done, and why ’Roy
would have won if it hadn’t lost. These reports do not
convey the same sense of movement as, say, the descrip-
tion of the fight on the beach in Stevenson’s “ Treasure
Island,” but they have points R.L.S.’s yarns lack.
Consider how the youthful stylist informs the ’Erald
readers that Cumberland kicked the ball. (Vic. gener-
ally gets his boot to it a good many times during a match,
and the literary youth considers it necessary to describe
the performance in different language each time.) Thus:
“he booted the leather,” “punched the pig-skin ” (or
“bladder,” “pill," “bag of wind,” “spheroid,”
“globule,” or, as a last resource, “ball”). Also, the
’Dons “ forced,” “carried,” “sent,” “ took,” “advanced”
and “rushed” the aforementioned ball, leather, bladder,
pig-skin, etc., up the centre of the ground, and during
the course of the game Barwick, or someone, “ notched
a sixer ” or “ sextet,” “ found the opening,” “ raised the
two flags,” “ booted the leather” (or pigskin, bladder,
etc., according to choice) between the “posts,” “up-
rights,” “ sticks,” or, as an aforementioned last resource,
he “kicked a goal.” The various scores may be read
outside any pub; the effort of the boy reporter gives
one absolutely no idea of the game ; and yet the public,
on its way to the play, pays its collective penny that
during the interval it may not go short of really good
literature.
* * •» *
“N.” : The stenotype, or shorthand reportingmachine,
has just been successfully experimented with in London.
Reference has been made to the reporting arrangements
of the American Congress, as certain to be emulated in
the Australian Hansards. The reporter speaks his notes
into a phonograph, and they can be unwound by anybody
at leisure. Thus any number of hands can be set upon
the transcribing, by the reporter speaking into different
machines. From this to the reporting machine was but
a step. The stenotype is a very small thing compared to
the typewriter, having only six keys. Perhaps it is a
development of the telegraph machine, rather than
the typewriter. It is not phonetic; that is an
important point. Thus the writer, or reporter,
cannot divagate away into his ow-n inventions,
as with Pitman and the other phonetics. The
signs are arbitrary, as in Gurney’s shorthand.
There is only one way of writing anything. Any steno-
typer can read another’s copy, if correctly written, just
as well as his own. If you know a foreign language, you
can report in it just as well as in your own, but it is not
as with the very expert phonographers, who will take
down a language they don’t know. Combinations of the
six keys on the stenotype are made to express anything,
like the dots and dashes of telegraphy. The copy comes
off in a continuous roll. The system appears to be more
easily learnt than telegraphy, and the speed is up to any-
thing. So the time is coming when even the phono-
graph will be superseded for reporting work. The
reporter’s stenotype will be there in the strips, and there
will be no expense for machines beyond the little instru-
ment itself. The copy can be cut up into any lengths
needed, as is done by a printing overseer when giving
out late stuff about the midnight murder and the mys-
terious 1 a.m. dead body.
“SO NICE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A poet’s crown is mostly made of thorns.
His throne is something fashioned like a cross.
His singing robes are mentioned in the bill
The tailor sends what time the month is young.
His rhymes are all of gold, but nosey men
Regard his paper as of little worth.
The washerlady cannot understand.
The grocer will not take his grandest ode
As an exchange for butter. Woe is me !
Old Homer singing when the world was young
Had better luck. The butcher at the gate
Paused wondering'when he sang, and gave him forth
Three sausages for each hexameter.
The milkman called on Sappho, pouring out
Measures of milk for every stately line,
And also cream on Sundays. Ovid too,
In banishment beyond the Euxine wave,
Had but to troll a song of gods and loves,
And all the Gothic swine-herds rendered pork
In token of their homage. Times are changed.
The only things my golden rhymes will buy
Are Mary’s smiles. If these were edible,
Then were my larder largely stocked indeed.
Yet must I sing. Mary is darning socks,
And when the ode has end her dear lips frame
Three golden words, three only, every time ;
She bites a thread and murmurs, “ It is nice.”
MAORILAND.
D.M.W.


DETAILS.
Five minutes extra work here, a quarter of an hour there, a slight fault corrected, ’
<2 more perfect joint, <2 better-fitting thumb-screw —such are the details that make
all the difference in the musical quality and durability of a piano.
The EXACT fixing, for instance, according to the minute scientific formula,
of the striking-point of the hammers on the strings ; the perfection of the camber
of the sounding-board —just precisely the right curve, not a hundredth of an
inch more or less ; these are samples of items that make up the high quality of the
finished article. In many cases not one hour, nor two hours, but whole weeks of
patient thought go to make just one improvement, small in itself, but important in its
consequences. Thus, being aware that the hinges usually employed on horizontal
grand pianos were liable to cause a “jingle j because they do not always fit tightly,
we produced a simple workmanlike hinge that not only will not jingle, but which has
the added advantage of allowing the use of an ornamental moulding on all three sides
of the instrument, instead of on only two sides. Again, a disadvantage m other pianos
is the cutting of the fibres of the sounding-board bridge rendered necessary by the ribs
of the iron frame; but a simple device of our own enables us to retain the rigidity of
the ribbedframe while not cutting the bridge. Thus we greatly improve the balance
and quality of tone.
We carry on in our own factories in A ustralia more of the actual processes of
piano manufacture than any other makers of pianos in the world. Our sole object in
doing so is to gain complete control of the materials and zvorkmanship throughout.
Necessarily, that means far more care and worry, and infinitely more energy, than if
we simply ordered our requirements from special suppliers as European and A mem-
can piano-makers do.
But the reward of all this care and attention to detail more than compensates
us. The music-loving public throughout A ustralasia and m many other parts of
the world have recognised in worthy measure the merits of the Beale Australian ■
Pianos, and the result is that our weekly sales of pianos are greater than that of any
other firm in Australasia. In London the Beale Pianos have met with extra-
ordinary success, for on the first occasion on which they have been publicly exhibited
there no less than twenty have been orderedfor what will be the largest and one of
the most magnificent hotels in the Worlds Centre.
Catalogues and copies of testimonials from buyers, free on request. You are
heartily welcome to inspect our pianos without any obligation to purchase.
BEALE’S
"THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Strec , Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Queensland).
Catalogue Free. Branches throughout the Commonwealth.


RIWLAHBS
KALYDOR
FOR - SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals al!
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO
Bbkwkrt and Offices :
lfiKiiKU_££££££UiU
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“0.K.”: To some among the Melbourne
crowd who, for the first time, saw Burns stripped to his
fighting 1 rig the build of the man was not more astound-
ing than the absurdity of those mis-representations of
him which passed for descriptive reports at the time
when he beat Squires in America. He was pictured last
year as a comparatively small-sized champion, dancing
around his adversary like the proverbial cat on hot bricks.
The strength of Tommy was said to be less noticeable
than his agility and ring-craft. In comparison with this
fighting hero of fiction the figure of Bill Lang had been ex-
pected to look large and clumsy, like unto Goliath of. Gath
breathing defiance at poor little David. As a matter of solid
fact Burns was much bigger than Lang, except in height,
and there the taller man was found to be at a great dis-
advantage every time the Hackenschmidt of pugilism
forced him to close quarters in a punch-as-puncb-can
encounter. Which was all the time, or nearly so. That
is to say, all the fighting was forced by the bull-necked,
heavy-shouldered, thick-waisted plugger from America,
whilst the more elegantly-proportioned native of Aus-
tralia dodged around on the defensive as a rule. To be
clinched by Burns was to be punched in the region of the
heart, kidney, liver, lights or spleen. If there is any
noble art of self-defence in clinch fighting under
Marquis of Huckleberry rules, Lang has yet to learn it.
Also Burns would be puzzled to find a noble way
of protecting himself from (say) an 18st. giant, with arms
4ft. long, who boosted him into a corner, and got those
long limbs around him, and played tunes outside his left
lung with a disengaged fist. This by the way. Obviously
Lang’s figure was no match for that of his sturdy oppon-
ent at “ in-fighting” or jiu-jitjabbing, whereas he might
accidentally have triumphed in a rapid and continued
interchange of long-range punches—had he carried
another stone weight of flesh.
Tommy Burns, the famous organist, pegging
away at the organs of Lang’s long body, had brought
him to a standstill—or, rather, a fall-down—
ill the fourth round, when the fight practically
ceased, although it was continued in the form of a one-
man show until the sixth round. Prom the outset it was
evident that Lang could not successfully defend himself
save by adopting - offensive tactics, and it was just as
evident that he was not sufficiently charged with com-
bative spirit to bring all his physical strength into play
what time he was permitted the necessary elbow room.
The fact that he scored a clean knock-down blow in the
second round (both of Burns’ feet being off the ground,
probably, at the instant when his chin received the shock)
merely went to prove that his only chance was in hitting
out. If the brawny rusher had been not so much
off his feet when Lang smote him the knock-down might
have amounted to a knock-out. It was no “ fluke ” hit,
nor was Burns unlucky in getting it as he did. On the
contrary, he was darned lucky in falling easily from a
punoh which otherwise would have downed him very
uneasily.
The weaker man of the two, unskilled in the
tricks of in-punching or organ-playing, Lang had nothing
but his height and reach to save him from defeat. He
made no use of his one advantage. He left undone the
things he ought to have done, and did the things he
ought not to have done, and there was no fight in him.
He was beaten (by his nervous temperament) before he
went into the ring, as the saying is. For which demoral-
isation of the Australian representative, whose courage
to take a hammering is, under the fairest of conditions,
greater than his animal combativeness, the Australian
management of the proceedings was all to blame. Granted
that this made no pretence of being a prizefight, but
was admittedly a fee-fight, Burns receiving £lOOO and
Lang being guaranteed £6OO. The people who paid more
than ordinary theatre prices for this entertainment
were at least entitled to a genuine sporting go for their
money. The sporting element was entirely lacking. The
show was run to suit Burns and disconcert Lang.
The management fooled the public in announcing that the
fee-fight would commence at 11 a.m. punctually. A
• genuine match, under Marquis of Huckleberry rules,
requires the combatants to be in the ring at a contracted
time, a default of five minutes on the part of either man
entailing the forfeiture of the whole or part of his stake.
This performance was subject only to the rule of Tommy
Burns. After the curtain-raising scrap between Cripps
and Nelson had been carried far beyond the time stated
for the beginning of the big event, a smiling stage
manager informed the docile audience that T. Burns,
Esq., had unfortunately left his arm-band at Menzies Hotel,
or Government House, but was expecting it to arrive
shortly. Somebody had gone along in T. Burns, Esq.’s
motor-car to fetch the arm-band. It was then 45 minutes
after the time when T. Burns, Esq., should have been
performing under Huckleberry rules. If this was sup-
posed to be a sporting, contest, what the Devil had
Tommy’s intentional or unintentional forgetting of his
precious equipment to do with the rules of the game?
Lang hadn’t contracted to fight Tommy’s arm-band and
wait around in a state of nervous excitement until
Tommy chose to arm himself with the arrangement. But,
as the smaller-salaried member of the co., poor
Lang had to submit to the proceedings of the
“star.” He was practically beaten by the long
and scandalous' delay before he got permission
to enter the ring, 50 minutes behind time. And there he
had to wait, cooling his heels and reflecting on his insig-
nificance for another seven minutes before the “star”
took the stage. The “ star” was accompanied by about
six aides-de-camp and an imposing portmanteau or suit-
case—which same “guyver” had been practised upon
Squires in Sydney. Then he put some more strain on
Bill Lang’s anxiety by dawdling and putting on airs of
composure, until at last there wasn’t one good
White Australian in the crowd who didn’t wish
from the very bottom of his heart that the
modest, unassuming fellow in the opposite corner
would lay the Canadian poseur low. What Lang
utterly failed to do will certainly be done by somebody
who is equal to Burns in strength and cool cunning- and
superior to him in character. Tommy is a “ born fighter,”
to be sure, and God gave hirn a stocky figure and a
quick eye and more brains than most men in the
stoushing business. But if he were the Real
Thing in dauntless pugs, he wouldn’t work the
points against his opponents which only his “star”
position allows him to work, and he wouldn’t
have hit Lang a nasty blow'when the referee was inter-
vening and the Australian was off his guard. A bit of a
“bounder ”is Burns without a doubt. He is the product
of an age when pugilism is tempered with histrionics, and
the impudence of the born actor is almost as useful to a
star gate-money getter as the punch of the born plugger.
He’ll shrink a lot when he meets his Waterloo, will
T. Burns, Esq., of the arm-band and the suit-case. But in
the meantime he can bound with imnunity.
* * * *
“10-2-4”: The Briton can’t get Jover Thomas
Brusso Burns’ avid desire to get all the cash possible out
of Stoush (the Briton prefers the type of foolish pro. who
professes a lordly contempt for mere lucre till he finds
himself broke on the kerbstone); also the Briton can’t
get over the Canadian pug’s indifference to the “ hot air ”
of the socially prominent people who frequent the London
National Sporting Club when big fighters foregather
there. The latter attitude strikes the normal Londoner
as trenching perilously upon “ disloyalty,” and as being
in' any case “insolent ”to a degree. Thomas is not popu-
lar in the City of Fog, and the sporting columns of the
papers reflect the fact. Says the fighting editor of the
London Standard
“I suppose that Tommy Burns is remarkable alike for
his loquacity and his undoubted ability as a boxer, and
that he is making a big impression in Sydney is not sur-
prising. There is one thing—he left without putting the
gloves on with Jack Johnson, the giant black. I shrewdly
suspect that he did not altogether like the idea of facing
Johnson, who certainly is one worth meeting,” etc., etc.
It is an unscrupulous misstatement of the case.
Jim Jeffries put the other side of the case in Sydney
Referee (2/9/’08): —
“ First of all, while Johnson was yet in New York, and
hadn’t, perhaps, thought of crossing the Herring Pond,
he was offered £lOOO to meet Burns in London, and Burns
had a like sum up with the New York Evening- Journal
for the black to cover, but Johnson refused both invita-
tions. Later, he arrived in England, and then the ink
was used very freely. Boiled down to the jelly, Burns
posted £lOOO with the London Sporting Life, and asked
Johnson to, plank a similar sum down as earnest of bona-
fides, and a side bet which would prove the ‘open
sesame ’to serious discussion of preliminaries. That
£lOOO remained uncovered until Tommy lifted it just
before his departure Australiawards; yet the talk
went on.”
The offer of £2500(£500 less, namely, than the late
Burns-Squires match money) which the London National
Sporting Club made and which Burns refused, for a
Burns-Johnson match, was ridiculously insufficient. It
amounted to offering Tetrazzini £lO for a Covent Garden
appearance. Burns had then proved himself to be in the
“ world-beater ” class, and had already had separate offers
of £6OOO and £7OOO, provided the big Galveston nigger
could be brought to the ring in the U.S.A. If there is
one defect common to prizefighters and others with the
mumming instinct strongly developed that Burns lacks
it is loquacity. He has fought more fights in his brief
career than any other champion in the world’s history,
and always he has maintained a practically dead
silence before, during, and after the disagreement. If
there is any loquacity about, Johnson, whom the British
papers laud as a sort of ringside Crichton, is guilty of it.
The event of the week in Sydney was the final
struggle in the great Gardiner Cup competition between
Pyrmont and Glebe, which, having each flattened all rivals
save one, rushed on to the field from opposite ends to
choose a survivor. Last time they met, Pyrmont, in spite
of the fact that it owns the almost invincible goalkeeper,
Spencer, and the hardest bullocking set of forwards in all
Soccerdom, was bewildered and baffled by the dancing
dervish tactics of the Glebe crowd. That far-famed, light,
fast team had only one style of play—to be the attacking
party all the time. When the game was going against it,
the remedy was to come down on the ball like a
flash of light, and taking it from the toes of
the charging opponents, sweep along the flank
and rush straight for the goal. The system proved,
until last Saturday, to be the correct one. Then the end
came, and the pity of it was that it was in the last match.
With Spencer, the notable one, guarding the goal, and
the central division of Pyrmont strong as ever and much
faster, the dancing dervish attack of Glebe was smashed
right up. By sheer weight and brute strength the leather
was carried down the wing again and again till within
shooting distance, and quickly centred. Then it was
kicked into Glebe net four times running. Glebe never
managed to score once in reply, and the record of a whole
season was wrecked, leaving its possessors merely runners-
up in the great competition.
* * •* *
Football was in its final throes on Saturday last,
when the Soccer division finished two competitions—the
first grade for the Gardiner Oup, which went to Pyrmont
once more, and the schools competition for the Byers
Oup. The contestants for the latter trophy were Glad-
stone Park and Rozelle, and the former won by a solitary
goal to nil. Both teams displayed good form, and con-
tained colts who will yet raise the dust in the first grade.
This is the ninth time a team from the Pyrmont
district has won the Oup. Glebe used to take its liquor
out of it during 1906, and last year Broadmeadow kept it
in the sideboard in the club-room. In the Club Premier-
ship contest Pyrmont has had a great record, winning in
1903, 1905, 1906, 1907. This year Glebe took the drink-
holder, Pyrmont losing it and the Rawson Oup by one
point; so the club that went under on. Saturday is not
altogether broken-hearted. Pyrmont second and third
divisions are also winners this year in their respective
grades. Therefore the sale of hats—large ones—has
increased greatly over Pyrmont way of late.
The Western District (N.S.W.) got no joy out
of its second match with the Sydney Metropolitan team
that went to Bathurst specially to oblige the gentlemen it
licked the previous Saturday. On Sydney Cricket Ground
the Metropolitan team won by 11 points to nine. At
Bathurst it repeated the performance, but increased the
margin of superiority, the figures being 24 to nil.
* * * *
“F.C.”: Judging by a sample of American
football as exhibited to Melbourne on the Tuesday of
Fleet week by teams from the Minnesota and. Kentucky,'
Yankee spectators prefer games of a. placid and con-
templative nature. American football is alleged to be a
development of Rugby ; if so it has developed backwards.
The ground is oblong, 330 ft. by 160 ft., With the usual
Rugby goal posts and bar. Seven players on each side
crouch on hands and knees facing each other to form an
alleged scrum. Behind them each side,has one quarter,,
two halves, and a back. The centre-forward, being.tem-
porarily in possession of the ball, is supposed to pass it
through his legs to the quarter. He must also slip it to one of
the halves or the full-back, who runs or kicks as he thinks ,
fit. Mostly he runs, and, when collared, the other 21
players, or as many as can reach the scene of battle, fall
on him and keep him and everyone else as flat as possible
till the umpire blows his whistle and sets another scrum
going. Should the half or full-back coyer syds. or more
in his run, the ball is handed to his centre-forward in the
scrum ; but if in three runs he fails to advance
syds., the opposing centre-forward gets the ball and
passes it out to his quarter-back. To avoid argument
the ground is marked with parallel lines syds. apart—
hence the Yankee term for the playing area, the “grid-
iron.” The game is understood to be of a strenuous
character, with much bogging-in, for which reasons the
player wears leather-covered pads on knees, elbows,
shoulders, breast, ankles, shins, and hips ; while at times
skull-caps and even nose protectors are worn. Also
numerous substitutes wait adjacent to replace play-era
who are removed to the hospital or the morgue, as
may be necessary. The usual term of play is two thirty-
fives, but the sailors, being out of condition, limited their
battle to two spells of 20 minutes each. During those 40
minutes the ball travelled half-way down the ground at
least once, and was kicked —punted in every case-—at
least six times ; the rest of the “game” consisted in a
man making a three-yard dive with the ball embezzled
about him somewhere, and the whole of his opponents and
most of his mates falling on him recklessly, and
dwelling where they fell determinedly till the umpire
hauled them off. There were none of the brilliant pass-
ing charges or the low tackle and cheerful capsize that
make Rugby a thing of smash and a joy for ever ; neither
was‘there any of the quick passing up and down the
ground, or the fearsome colliding' leap of four or five big
men that make the Australian game so attractively dan-
gerous ; though the American habit of falling'under a ton
or two of live meat would probably mean broken ribs on
a hard ground. The Melbourne ground last week was
chiefly mud, and the total American casualties were one
scraped ear.
» * * *
S.A. football, which had such a heavy take-
down at the Melbourne “carnival,” hassooled its secprij
or stay-at-home team on to Broken Hill and Maoriland. in
turn, and beaten both badly, so it now feels a trifle
better. As a matter of fact, though .S A. has always
reckoned itself about level with Victoria at football, and
a class above every other State, good judges have, for
some time, held that Westralia was just as good, and, in
order to prove it, only needed the chance it has now
successfully seized.
This is the season of the year when the ghost of
football rages through the land in the shape of dreary and
interminable “ Reviews of the Past Season,” extending
over about four issues of the weekly sporting paper.
Heaven knows who reads the awful effusions—writer has
never managed to unearth a ’bailer who does —but editors ,
demand them, and poor devils of scribes have to write
them. The past season in this case has been an eventful
one. The Rugby League has managed to keep its head
above water and send a boodle-hunting team to
England to play various Northern Union Clubs,
and the ancient Rugby Union has also sent its
little brigade to ravage Britain. The upheaval
of the League has proved that there is sufficient interest
taken in football in Sydney to keep almost any number
of clubs going. 1 So popular is the game that the appear-
ance of the League with quite a little crowd of really
good teams,- including star players like Messenger, did
not appear to reduce the attendances at Union matches
to any' degree, and the ancient body is as flourishing as
ever. The quality of the play in both Rugby divisions was
high—even better than it was the previous year, which
was a wonderful improvement on the year before.
There was a time, only a little while back, when
a good passing charge was a rarity on a Sydney' football
field. This season saw them during every match. The
only branch of the play that seems to have deteriorated
is the kicking. To writer’s mind, the place kickers of
the past season, excepting Messenger, were not as they
were aforetime. But in the science of the game the
improvement was considerable, and a scratch team of
to-day would run right over the best of the bunch of,
say, six years ago. The Australian game has also im-
proved through the example of visiting teams, including
that of the champion of champion teams, Norwood, of
S. Australia. But owing to the lack of enclosed grounds
where small fees can be collected at the gate, the Aus-
tralian game has not been a success in Sydney, and it
never will be till the clubs get grounds that bring them
in revenue. In the British Association division improve-
ment of play has not been so great, but the reason is that
there wasn’t the room for it. For years the best football
played in Sydney has been that of the followers of Soccer.
And it is still. If our Rugby men and Australian Rules
players could play their game but half as well as the
Soccer crowd plays its particular brand, football in
Sydney would be a glittersome thing.
After the Fleet left Melbourne, last Saturday,
the Heavens; like the girls, wept copiously ; wherefore
the concussion of South and ’Wood, on the latter’s
ground, was a damp and disheartening circumstance. The
other League clubs were playing - elsewhere, but as Carl-
ton, Essendon and St. Kilda were assured of places in the-
semi-final four, and the winner of the’Wood-South con-
test would make up the quartette, nobody regarded
the other games attentively. The weather and the
ground favored -the Magpies, but those advantages
didn’t account for the lamentable- collapse of
“Skinner’s Hirelings,” who started with a rush and a
roar, and potted a goal before ’Wood got properly going.
Then they started their usual Tommy Burns act, but the
ground was soft, and the violent slinging and charging
didn’t do half as much damage as they expected. Also,
the umpire perceived the caper, and a liberal allowance
of free kicks impressed on the South men that they were
supposed to be playing football, not felling bullocks. The
first quarter ended with ’Wood’s 3 goals 3 behmds to
South’s lonesome goal, and thereafter the procession
became a rout. The arms of the big Southerners
could be seen going like flails, but in the close ruck play
it was a case of Burns and Lang over again, and time
and again the big men fell into the mud apparently
without reason. The rain poured steadily all through
the last three-quarters, and the muddy field made pretty
play impossible ; but of such organisation and sy stem as
there was Collingwood had the monopoly. Finding that
their irregular tactics were useless against the Magpies
system, and that the umpire kept on penalising then-
unblushing attempts to intimidate, the red-and-whites
mostly chucked it after half-time and wound up the
season a hopeless, discredited, disorganised eighteen.
Scores: ’Wood, 88 points; South, 22 points. As the
other games were merely exercise canters, it is sufficient
to note that ’Roy downed Melbourne by 84 points to 10
. Essendon outed Geelong by 98 to 27 ; Carlton smashed
’Varsity by 67 to 28 ; and Richmond- scored 107 points to
Kilda’s 44 There is a large-sized suspicion that Saints
were somewhat desirous of losing this last game, inas-
much as had South beaten ’Wood, they would then have
“ad to tackle Essendon in the semi-final. As it turned out,
South was outed, and Saints will now have to encounter
the slDhtlv-superior Carlton, while ’Wood collides with
Eskendon After that the winners will settle the question
of supremacy for the season.
On the previous Monday—the Fleet holiday—
the Association hired the Metropolitan Cricket Ground
for its final between Footscray and Brunswick. There
being- no counter attraction, it was rejoiced by a gor-
geous “ house ”of 40,000. Brunswick speedily got going,
and, playing a systematic, concerted game, more than
held’ its own up to half-time, when it had got four goals on
the board to’Scray’s three goals fourbehinds. Just before
the spell, however, the brickies had the bad luck to
lose l their heftiest back man, who fell when going for a
high mark and broke his arm ; and though they battled
along strenuously, the extra exertion told its tale
in the last quarter, and once ’Scray got its nose
in front it speedily got its whole corpus there,
in a manner of speaking. When -the bell closed the Ass.
season the board'showed : Footscray, 64 points; Bruns-
wick, 40. The premiership thus went to ’Scray for the
first time this century, its efforts to close last century in a
blaze of glory—it held the honor in ’9B, ’99, ’oo—having
apparently exhausted it for seven years!. The frequent
Ass. bloke and his accompanying Lizzie pervaded the
scene, but' the compression of the crowd didn’t lend itself
to uproarious proceedings, ( and William and Elizabeth
aforesaid mostly opined it was “ too tame for a final ; a
bloke couldn’t open his face.” The turnstiles yielded
£1074 Bs.—a record for an Ass. match.
* ' * *
“M.P.”: Melbourne’s football clubs that con-
test the League premiership, have got the importers’
craze badly, so to speak. Truck-loads of athletes are
brought from the jungle and given a chance to show
their paces, while the local youngster very rarely gets a
look in. The local junior, though be handles the leather
with dexterity, is turned down in preference to some
“wild cat” from Whallop Whallop, or somewhere.
Generally speaking, the “ local ” is snapped by an
Association club, and exploited with success, while a
large percentage of “wild cats” return to their axe
whirling at Whallop Whallop. The Saint Kilda team is a
striking example of the importation epidemic. Madden
(West Melbourne), J. Stewart (Melbourne), Feehan
(Richmond), O. Bant (Ballarat), W. Stewart (Kerang),
Northey (Stawell), McNamara (Benalla), Clymo and Hall
(Bendigo), and Hill (Rutherglen), are a few samples.
Lever, Dangerfield,.Scott, Cowell, Woodcock. Morrissey,
Cumberland and Bant can be written down as Saints’
residents, though several dwell on the outskirts. Cum-
berland, who was brought from Maoriland, originally
played with a Saints’ junior team, but was exploited by
Melbourne and proved a top-notcher. The boodle ex-
pended in importations, if devoted to assisting the local
rising generation in its football, would cultivate the per-
manent player in preference to the follower of fortune
who shakes a free leg at the ball. The present unrepre-
sentative state of affairs calls loudly for a sound scheme
of district football.
* * * *
The Anglo-Welsh footballers wound up , the
Australasian tour by defeating a Metropolitan team at
Brisbane last week, and then left for England. The re-
cord of the,tour panned out at—won 17, lost nine, one
game drawn ; and the score was 838 points against 204.
Although there were rumors that three members of; the
team purposed remaining in Maoriland, the only player
who stayed behind was Dr. McEvedy—a Maorilander by
birth, who returns to Ward’s land to hang a brass plate
in the porch.
**. * *
N.S.W. Rugby League is out for the blood of
the men who played in the benefit match for the Maoris.
A sub-committee disqualified the umpire, and cautioned
the players, but the “ Judicial Committee,” which might
better have been called the “ Butchering Gang,” wasn’t
satisfied. It biffed out the umpire, and sent the
“ caution ” back to the sub-committee, suggesting death
to slow music. Under the circumstances, it would have
been more creditable to the League to let the matter
quietly drop. A day may come when the whole blessed
League will want consideration itself.
* * * *
After the showing made by the N.S.W. base-
ballers against the Yankees, the complete rout of Victoria
by the Cornstalk team, when the Gumsuckers went down
by four to 12, came as no surprise. Writer is not in-
terested in baseball, but is told that it is an acquired
taste like that of olives', oysters, and byrrh. Writer has
only tasted byrrh once, and on that occasion he climbed
through the fanlight and ran five miles without stopping,
and he feels that a man .who could acquire a taste for
byrrh would probably take to baseball.
* * •
The baseball premiership of Sydney metro-
politan district went to Paddington, where the Governor’s
Cup will repose for a brief space. The record of the club
is fairly good—ll wins, one walloping, and two ties, total-
ling 32 competition points. Waverley, which keeps our
dead, was runner up with 13 points l —the Devil’s number
to the ghoulish suburb. Last season was the first of the
district system of baseball, and it is said by those who
take an interest in that weird form of rounders to have
been a booming success.
■Jfr * * *
S. A. golf-championship was fought out between
Guy Stirling, son of the State’s Legislative Council Presi-
dent, and Tom Cheadle, who won it while a schoolboy
and several times since. Stirling got home unexpectedly
by one hole, after a tie. Hyland, who has been champion
of at least two States, could only get into the last four.
* * * *
The S.A. Derby, which does not pretend to be
a very important affair, but still is a Derby, was won by
Tiercel, a colt owned by R. M. Hawker, one of the leading
Adelaide owners. Tiercel was a warm favorite, yet only
just got home from the biggest outsider of the nine that
started. The day was one of the wettest on record, and
it is a sure sign of the revival of Turf matters in S.A. that
more money was put through the totalisator amid the
sludge than got there last year in fine weather.
* ¥ * *
Death has been busy amongst the big dogs of
the racecourse. First G. G. Stead went over to where the
tote is unknown and the bookie ceases from troubling.
Then W. P. Crick gave racing and the world best, only to
be followed quickly by J. J. Macken, owner of Tartan and
other gee-gees. Macken was a member of the firm known
as Mark Foy, and splashed money around in a more or
less lavish manner.
* * * *
This year’s Warrnambool to Melbourne Dunlop
cycle-race has broken all records with 420 nominations.
The mob consists of 14 Maorilanders, 10 Walers, six Tas-
manians, five Westralians, five Crow-eaters, one Banana-
lander, and 379 Victorians. No such crush ever nomi-
nated before for any cycle-race in the world, and the
promoter, the great Australian Dunlop Co., is feeling
real good.
(Continued on next page.)
THE IMAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If it were degrading: for cocks to fight, how much more
degrading was it for two men, made in the image of God,
to stand up, stripped to the waist, to smite one another
till one was knocked out.— A-Mr. Batley, at the Yarra-
ville (Vic.) Protestant Defence Association.
It reely is in Shocking taste,
And far from Christian Love,
To strip God’s Image to the Waist,
And bash it with a Glove.
And ’tis a very Wicked slip,
As Holy men opine,
To take your clothing off, and dip
The Image in the Brine.
How wrong upon a Tram to sit
When Winds are blowing high,
And let the Image get a bit
Of Dust within its Eye.
I Hate to see a Lady sweet
Dressed as an evening Swell,
The Image always hides its feet
Why not its neck as well ?
Men are not Cats or even Dogs,
Nor like the Timid hare
That they should cast aside their Togs
And leave the Image bare.
Even our savage Parents who
Did not in Grace abound
For Decency with Woadof blue
Did paint the Image round.
And ’mid the lowest of the Low
Among the Heathen dark
The Image for a shirt can show
Some feathers or some Bark.
And so I think that I am right
When this my Tale I tell,
The Image is a horrid Sight
Which should be Covered well.
VIC.
LAM.
A LITTLE COMMON SENSE.
In using any kind of medicine a little, common
sense is always necessary. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are compounded to meet the general
requirements of man, woman and child, both
weak and strong, and in prescribing the doses ot
from one to four pills, the actual number necessary
in each case must be determined according to the
age and condition of the patient. A dose, how-
ever, should be sufficient to move the bowels at
least twice, and although relief may be obtained
at once, it is always advisable to take a pul or two
on the following night.
In some instances the first dose may cause a
little pain and sickness, which will not recur
subsequently. The cause is due to the large now
of bile into the intestines, which the pills have let
loose by opening the congested ducts which nave
been clogged up, perhaps, for months. Do not
blame the pills if under these conditions you tee
sick. You will feel better afterwards, and it you
adopt Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as your
regular medicine, there is no likelihood ot your
liver getting in the same state again.


’S
©-
©
■S
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
I Aid."
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kug'elma.nn’s Purr Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And AT ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
You can be
like this.
DON’T STAY THIN.
THERE is no reason why every irian or woman should not acquire or
regain a Perfect Figure. If you want to add flesh, be made
plump and rosy, gain weight, strength and beauty, send for Free
Booklet and a Free Trial Treatment of the 11 Miracula”
Nerve Food and Flesh Developer. This newly-discinvered
Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing Agent and Flesh Builder.
It will soon put your nerves right, tone up your digestive organs ; and the
alteration in you will astonish yourself and friends. Attenuation, be it in
man or woman, is due to a lack of flesh where flesh ought to be, and the
prominence of bone where no bone should be visible. Would you like to
have perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all scraggi-
ness ? You can easily obtain this blessing. There is no time to
lose. Every day you delay means possibly further decrease in
weight, so write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps, to pay
postage on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
If You are
like this.
London Specialities Agency, Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney
m
m
The Plum gives a Clean Shave!
That is all there is about it—and that is all that
interests you, anyhow. Made in the good old-
fashioned Sheffield method of forging by hand,
the PLUM’S Silver-steel blade keeps a splendid
edge always. We guarantee and keep it in
order for two years free of charge.
Price-JQ 6
Post Free to
any address
in the world.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6 Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/5, including- Postage & Registration Return.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 l ' George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
PATEN7J
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Established 1877.
Write us tor Investors’ Guide.
’
Dr. Ida Carlson s
Remedies.
Established 16 Years.
Health for Women.
Why Suffer? Send 2d.
Si amp for this Great
Specialist’s Book on Home
Treatment.
BRITISH DRUG CO.
4th Floor E.S. & A Bank,
Cor. George & King Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
JOHN JONES.
rpHE abovenamed JOHN JONES (a Nephew of WILLIAM
■*- WALLACE, late of Waterloo, near Sydney, in the
State of N.S.W., Licensed Victualler, deceased) is sought
so that payment may be made to him of his share in his
said Uncle’s Estate.
Information as to his whereabouts is required by
H. J. ASPINALL, Solicitor,
St. James’ Chambers,
King- and Macquarie Streets, Sydney.
A NY person knowing the whereabouts of WILLIAM
MEEDS, formerly of Goole, England, will confer a
favor by forwarding particulars to his Nephew :
FREDK. MOORE,
P.O. Box 866, New Westminster, B.'C., Canada.
TAMES BESSEUT, sometimes known as GEORGE
WEST or MILLER, pork butcher, late of Gosport.
Information required as to whether he was alive or dead
in October, 1906. Reward—THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
& AGENCY CO., LTD., 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
ONE OF THE MOST NOTABLE SUCCESSES ON THE
AMERICAN STAGE,
MIIS. WIGGS OP THE
CABBAGE PATCH,
By Anne Crawford Flexner and Alice Hegan Rice.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL
BRUNE, supported by a
SPECIALLY SELECTED COMPANY
—in —
PETER PAN.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
RITERION T HEaTrE, SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Comic
Opera Co. presents
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By Paul A. Rubens and Austin Hurgon.
One of the Most Successful Musical Productions of
Recent Years.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES —D.C. and R.S., ss. ; Stalls 35.; Family Circle, 2s. ;
Gallery, Is.
THE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. (if!., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling-’s,
PA LA CE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction of Edwin Geach.
VICE-REGAL COMMAND NIGHT,
FRIDAY NEXT, 11th INST.
Under the Patronage and Presence of His Excellency
the Governor, Miss Rawson and Suite.
FRANK THORNTON
—AS —
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s. Prices 55., 35., 2s. and Is.
m
MARK HAMBOURG
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
SEPTEMBER 15, 17, and 22.
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
SEPTEMBER 26.
PRICES—6s, 4s, 3s, and 2s.
115,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keens auyinuy. Bed Harry Is.
Amusements.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
THE SEASON CLOSES SEPTEMBER 30.
REAL ICE SKATING.
. DAILY : 10 to 12; 3 to 5 ; Bto 10.30.
ADMISSION 2s. CHILDREN—Morning- and Afternoon
only, Is. SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
SATURDAY MORNING Admission, CHILDREN, 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
IVO L I Th~e atr e, s"y d n ey.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
12 ABDULLAH’S MOORISH ARABS. 12
TED KALMAN, Eccentric Patter Comedian.
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedy Sketch Artists.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
THE MILES STAVORDALE QUINTETTE.
CLARENCE TISDALE. IRVING SAYLES.
Miss NITA LEETE. EILEEN LYONS.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES —35.. 2s. 6d., Is. (id., and Is. Plan at Palimr’s.
OPERA H6U S E, ME LB OUR N E.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BURT SHEPARD, Comedian Raconteur Pianist.
OSBORN AND BROOKS, Musical Comedy Artists.
GALETTI’S PERFORMING DOGS & BABOONS.
TOD LOWAN, Quaint Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. &W PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
■pH EATRE R O YAL, MELB O URNE.
EVERY EVENING.
THE NATIONAL OPERA CO. in
PLANQUETTE’S BEAUTIFUL COMIC OPERA,
LES CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLE.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 10, FRIDAY, SEPT. 11,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE THIEF.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 12, Miss Margaret Anglin
in Clyde Fitch’s Brilliant Comedy,
THE TRUTH.
RE-APPEARANCE, AFTER TEN YEARS’ ABSENCE,
OF MR. GEO. S. TITHERADGE.
Box Plan at AllarPst Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
TH E It ED MILL,
A DELIGHTFUL DUTCH MUSICAL PLAY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.;
Town hall, Melbourne.
SEPTEMBER 19, 2-2, 24, and 26.
Mr. Eduard Branscombe will Present
THE RUSSIAN WONDER-CHILDREN.
LEO
JAN
MISCHEL
CHBRNIAYSKE
VIOLIN
PIANO
’CELLO
in a Series of Concert Recitals..
Vocalists—Madam Marie Hooton and Mr. Percival Driver.
Reserved Seats, 5s ; Second Seats, 3s ; Admission, 2s.
Plan at Glen’s. Day Sales at Ronald’s, Florists.
F. G. Robson, Manager.
E A L ICE SKATING.
MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
POPULAR PRICES EVERY EVENING,
ONE SHILLING.
SCHOOL CHILDREN, SATURDAY MORNINGS,
SIXPENCE.
PRINCES COURT, MELBOURNE.
OPEN EVERY EVENING at 7.30, and
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY AFTERNOONS at 2.30.
HAGEN BECK’S
PERFORMING WILD ANIMALS and other
EUROPEAN SENSATIONS
Code’s Grand Concert Military Band.
GENERAL ADMISSION .. ONE SHILLING,
Includes Trip on Chute and Skelter Ride on Elephant and
Hagenbeck’s Performance, ’Phone 1113 Citj.
g| JO U THEATRE, MELB OURN E.
PACKED HOUSES NIGHTLY GREET
MISS FLORENCE BAINES,
the Girl who Set London Laughing,
—in —
MRS. LEE’S LODGERS.,
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES THE
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
m
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tun Bulletin.] [3
m
WHAT IS CATARRH?
eCATARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
1 of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
f throat, and lungs: it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICAIOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hav
Fever, Headache, Neuralgic, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send T“n Shtllinps lor dedi-
cator complete, with 4months treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Ten teams are now left in the final of the Dunlop
inter-club bike premiership of Sydney and suburbs,
and they will decide which is the best among them on
Saturday next over a distance of 20 miles, under the rules
and auspices of the Cyclists’ Union, the amateur con-
trolling body of N.S.YV.
* * * »
More than likely the Whelch-Thoroughgood
sculling race will fall through after all, owing to the in-
sane demand on the part of Benjamin or his backers that
the tussle shall take place on the Hunter River (N.S. W.).
Whelch wants the Parramatta, for the good and sufficient
reason that there is more money hanging to it. Present
appearances are that if Thoroughgood sticks to the Ray-
mond Terrace course he will be left in undisputed posses-
sion of the empty honor ; and there is not much good
being a professional champion unless one can make some
money during his reign.
Arnst is now in Wanganui (M.L.) preparing for
the race with Webb, and is displaying the wisdom of the
serpent by keeping a quiet tongue ; wherefore the local
papers commend his modesty. On occasions like this
modesty is the better policy ; in the case of a licking the un-
obtrusiveness of the past rises in extenuation. But if Hick
is keeping quiet the market is talking with a loud, in-
sistent voice. Backers of Webb are asking for odds.
Yet Webb has, to all appearances, quite shaken off the
effects of the lung trouble that had so sorely afflicted
him, and he is said to be looking and feeling as well as
e\er he did. His style of rowing is alleged to have
improved vastly, and the new boat built for him by
Neilsen, of Sydney, is said to be a thing so beautiful that
Webb regards it as the eighth wonder of the world.
tf * * *
South Australia’s long-distance ped., R. Leitch,
has lifted the Australian record for an hour’s walk from
7J miles to 8 miles 253vds. The only visible result was
an immediate challenge from a Westralian named John-
son, so now Leitch will have to do it all over again, and,
perhaps, increase the distance to retain the hard-won
honor.
* * * *
In spite of his recent repulse it is said that
J. J. Giltinan still dreams of amalgamating the Rugby
League and Melbourne League or Association. The gilded
bait is, of course, international matches, trips to England,
and little trifles like that, to say nothing of a share in the
gate money.
* * * *
Jules Gautier, who won the long-distance swim-
ming championship of France as far back as 1878,
recently performed an amazing performance in freak-
swimming in the Thames, London. With his hands
manacled and his legs tied, he paddled from London
Bridge to Richmond, a distance of over 15 miles, in shr.
37min. 45sec. His method of propulsion is to throw his
bound arms like a loop over his head, and then to sweep
them round into the water while at the same time
lunging out with his legs. Apparently the absurd feat
caused him little trouble, for he finished without any
apparent signs of fatigue.
Vol. 26 of J. J. Miller’s Australian Racing
Chronicle is the fattest volume of the series thus far.
It contains the details of 872 meetings (as against 679
in the previous half-yearly issue), and it brings the per-
ennial story up to July 31 last. The figures XXVI. on
the cover are a saddening reminder that thirteen years
have passed over the Bulletin’s head since it first recom-
mended Miller’s Racing Chronicle to the notice of those
misguided persons who study gee-gee form, and who want
careful reminding of the iosers they backed eighteen
mouths ago.
“Peter Pan”: Sport is a mixed business in
S.A. The State that legalised the totalisator now finds it
such good business that a Bill is before Parliament to
legalise a half-crown machine, and it is probable that the
measure will become law. But boxing it won’t stand at
any price. The account of the Burns-Squires mill so
shocked Crawford Vaughan, a Labor M.L.A., that he
requested the Government to censor such bloodthirsty
stuff if possible. Such an exhibition would not be per-
mitted in Adelaide. The City Council has already ceased
to allow boxing matches, and the Police Act clinches the
matter by providing that any person who shall
accept or even send a challenge to fight for money
will be treated as a common criminal. Yet all these regu-
lations exist in a State which booms the cruel coursing
match, and is also callous enough to treat its football
umpires like battledores. A league referee the other day
had the best part of his clothing torn off. At Uraidlaa
few days later the umpire was laid out, and the teams
then promptly set to work to smite each other. The um-
pire was dragged out of the melee by a policeman, and
after the players had settled their differences it was found
necessary for all concerned to stand together and save the
remnants of the referee from popular fury.
This is how Tommy Burns, the champion of
champions, compares with the other great heavyweights
of the world, past and present
Tommy Burns .. sft. 7 in. .. 13st.
Peter Jackson .. 6ft. Jin.
R. Fitzsimmons .. sft. llfin. .. list. 111 b.
Jim Jeffries .. .. 6ft. ljin. .. 15st. 101 b.
Jack Johnson .. 6ft. Jin. .. 12St. 81b.
Frank P. Slavin .. 6ft. Bin. ..
John L. Sullivan .. sft. lOJin. .. 14st.
Stanley Ketchell .. sft. 9 in. ..
Joe Goddard.. .. 6ft.
Han Creedon.. .. sft. 8 in.
Jim Hall .. .. 6ft. Jin. ..
Just a little over 50 years ago, Henry
Parkes’ Empire declined and fell. (To be exact,
August 28 was the jubilee of the disaster.) The
journal was certainly an able one as journalistic
ability went at that date, but the business
management was deplorable. Parkes had a seat
in Parliament at the time, and between the two
sets of duties he neglected to hunt after sub-
scribers’ and advertisers’ coin. He described his
ruin then as “ absolute and irreparable.” It was
really irreparable, as, all his life after, money
shortage dogged him. The Empire newspaper,
after a few jolts, was swallowed up in the Sam
Bennett venture, and came out as the Evening
News, growing in time into a prosperous money-
maker.
Stanhope O’Connor, an ancient member
of the Melbourne Stock Exchange, died last week.
He came into public notice in the days of the
Kelly gang, when he was “lent” by the Queens-
land Government, with a squad of black trackers,
to follow up the gang. He worked under Nicol-
son when that officer had charge, and, later, under
Superintendent Hare ; and was with the latter
officer when he led Troopers Maginnis and O’Hara
and the rest to the Battle of the Public House at
Glenrowan. In 1885 Mr. O’Connor retired from
the Queensland police, and joined the Melbourne
Stock Exchange, and there he continued to sell
the meat of the wild cat until his death. He
married a daughter of the late John Thomas
Smith, who was Mayor of Melbourne seven times
in the old days before Pigdon and Ham and Mat.
Davies and Benjy Benjy were heard of.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant speaks :
Local authorities are not always correct. Hr. Houison,
who is supposed to be an expert on such matters, in a
lecture last week before the N.S. W, Institute of Archi-
tects (subject, “ Old Sydney ”), said that Robert Camp-
bell’s house in Phillip-street was the, original home of the
Union Club. The Campbell mansion was in Bligh-street,
and the original home of the Union Club was in Wynyard
Square—No. 4, originally the residence of Jacob Marks,
merchant. The Union Club established itself there in the
late ’fifties, and afterwards the clubbers migrated to the
Bli ’h-street house. Then the Wynyard Square premises
were occupied l by the Municipal Council, and when the
Council went to the other side of the Square, the old
home of Jacob Marks became the Old Town Hall Hotel,
kept by the Misses Horner. It is a pub still.
The downfall of Win-Ting-Fang, Chinese
Ambassador at Washington and vegetarian crank,
might be entitled “ The Revenge of the Cabbage.”
China has extracted more wealth from the cab-
bage than any other nation known to history ;
Celestial poets have called the cabbage the
Green Rose of China, and it is said
that every good Chow has the image of it en-
graved on his heart. If Fang is suspended for
ever—by the neck or otherwise —for his well-
meant suggestions to the Empress, he will at
least have the consolation of knowing that he fell
in the cause of the national (flower. Which is, in
its way, just as much of an honor as dying for
France.


WEDDING GIFT IDEAS
What more useful and appropriate Gift could you give than a
Handsome piece of Table Silver. Here are a few suggestions,
all of A 1 Quality a quality that assures life-long; satisfaction.
pppp f ATAI lf y° u ’ re interested in
■* ■l'-L.l—. li\ I LLiiZ). Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Leather, or Opt il Goods, a post card will bring you a copy
of our Illustrated Catalogue. Write to-day.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND and CALL BELL, Pure Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Silver, richly engraved, crystal
glass bottles,
£3- ■
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
SPECIMEN TUBE, pure
Silver-plated, Gilt-lined,
weighted base, 6in 4/6,
6£in 5/6, Yin 6/6, 7Jin
A. SAUNDERS.
SOUVENIR EMU EGG, Hand
Carved, Pure Silvertplated Mounts,
Ebonised Wood Base, 9in high,
10/6
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/, 40/.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.— J‘ V X£*%S!
partment will serve you promptly and satisfactorily. Free carriage on all goods,
with the exception of Clocks and Chinaware, to any part of Australasia.
imimmii imii
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco
covered, Pure Silver-plated,
Screw Top,
15/6
Other styles, 10/C, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD-BOARD and KNIFE, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, richly embossed, solid base (can be
used as a waiter),
£2/10/.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 00/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Porcelain China lining,
7/0-
Other Styles. S/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
pure Silver-plated frame,
fine cut-glass bottles,
15/6
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
12/C, 17/0, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, gilt-lined, handsomely fluted, on
ball feet,
£2/10/-
Other styles, £3/10/, . £4, £5.
r
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Amber or Ruby
Tinted Glass,
12/6
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Hand Engraved,
20/.
Other Styles, 16/6, 21/, 25/, 30/.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and
Pure Silver-plated, Al. Quality, rus-
tic stand, richlv embossed,
£2-
Plain, 35/. Other styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
m
I*!®*!® 1 HulfS
m
m
£4/4/-
PRESENTATION TEA
prising Tea, Coffee,
Other styles, £4/10/,
A. SAUNDERS.
and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, com-
Sugar, and Cream, richly engraved, gilt-lined, with covers, £4/4/.
£5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, to £5O.
£4/41-
0J
m
m
mxtiggßt life'.
im\/Am'A/Adt
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4-bottle, Pure
Silver-plated Frame, fine Cut-glass
Bottles,
25/-
Other Styles, 15/6, 17/6,’21/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-plated, Pearl Handle,
6/G
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
in long.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR-SIFTER, JAM SPOON, and BUTTER
KNIFE, Solid Silver, hand-engraved, Pearl handles,
30/-
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality,
£2/10/-
Other styles, 25/, SO/, 35/.
SPORTING CUP, Pure Silver-plated,
richly embossed, gilt-lined, detachable lid,
16in high, any Subject,
£3/10/.
nrr,o r styles,. 25/, SO/, 85/, 40/, to £25.
SET
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle, finest Sheffield steel blade,
s/o.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, real Carl-
ton China Bowl, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts,
15/6
Other Styles, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
-J
,fi.i)cu//ndcAd
mam
AFTERNOON TEA SPOON and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, richly embossed
handles, 1 li/«.
Other styles, 10/C, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE COMBINATION and
SERVERS, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality,
Satin-glass Lining, £2/10/-
Other styles, 30/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL and SIFTER,
Pure Silver-plated, satin fin-
ished, gilt lined,
12/6.
Cream Jug to Match, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, fine
Cut Crystal Glass,
20/.
Other Styles, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, richly embossed, hand-fluted,
£2/10/-
Other styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 60/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.W.


ONE of the Greatest COMFORTS
Ever Invented.
All Photographers admit that,
and many are more
enthusiastic still.
IT makes Daylight Development a very simple
process and an actual pleasure, at the same
time producing negatives of far greater excel-
lence than can be obtained by any other method.
We illustrate the advantages of these splendid
appliances daily at each of our warehouses.
And the prices recommend them, ranging from
14/6
for Brownie Films to
£2
for all Kodak and
Brownie Films
having a width of 5 inches or less.
€
))
V
0
0
wiwui
Proprietary Limited
Sole Agents for
AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,’
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
REMOVE GRAVEL & KIDNEY DISOR
Medical Opinion
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN writes :
“ Knock, Ennis,
“ co. Clare, Ireland.
“ Sirs, —I have recommended
Kutnow’s Powder to several
lady patients, who approve of
it greatly. An aged clergyman
to whom I recommended Kut-
now’s Powder tells me he finds
it both effective and agreeable.”
Dr. LEON BLAND writes:
(Consulting Physician at Aix=les=Bains, etc.)
“ Aix-les-Bains, June 7.
“ Dear Sirs,—Many thanks
for Kutnow’s Powder you sent
me for the Thermal Hospital.
It has proved equally beneficial
for my Kheumatic and Gouty
Patients, both in the Hospital
as well as for those patients
taking the Aix-les-Bains cure.”
KUTNOW’S
Removes the POISON.
If yon ever experience weight and discomfort after
eating, a feeling of abnormal fulness or emptiness,
heartburn, flatulence, acrid and bitter taste in the
mouth, furred tongue, headache, pain in the back
or in the right shoulder, impaired eyesight, palpi-
tation, irritability, neuralgia, sluggish liver, con-
stipation, or turbid deposits, you may know that it
is time to take Kutnow’s Powder, which not only
dissolves but also eliminates all excessive uric acid
and other poisonous deposits from the system.
Substitutes will Ruin your Health.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all
conscientious chemists throughout the World.
The kidneys require very delicate treatment, and
you must therefore be careful to avoid spurious
substitutes, which frequently cause irreparable
injury. Insist on seeing that the carton bears the
fac-simile signature, “ S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and
the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” which also appear on the label on the
bottle. You then .
Get Genuine Kutnow’s.
Sole Proprietors:
S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Public Approval
A CLERGYMAN’S WIFE writes:
“ Brayton, Carlisle,
“ March 9, 1908.
“ Sirs, —Thank you for your
bottle of Kutnow’s Powder,
which I find very efficacious,
pleasant, and agreeable to take.
“A. Potts.”
Nurse CROSS writes:
“ 2 Percy Hoad,
“ Wrexham.
“ Sirs, — Some five years ago I
had an acute attack of nephritis
(inflammation of the kidneys),
and my doctor advised Harro-
gate waters. After trying them
for some time with very little
result, the doctor suggested
giving Kutnow’s Powder atrial,
with such excellent result that
in a short time I felt very
much better. I continued
taking it regularly every other
day for two years, and consider
it worked an entire cure.”


From Dreadful Humour on Face and
Scalp—Under Medical Care for
Months—Suffered for 3 Years and
Despaired of Cure—Now Well.
CALLS THE CUTICURA
REMEDIES MARVELLOUS
“I suffered for two and a half, I may
say three, years from terrible eruptions
of the skin and scalp. My face was so
broken out and my head was so bad that
I could scarcely wash my face or comb
my hair. I went to a doctor in Dublin
for about three months. He gave me a
lotion and pills, but they proved of no
use whatsoever. So I came to the con-
clusion that I could not be cured when
this doctor’s remedies were no good.
“About two years and five months
after trying his treatment a friend was
telling me of the Cuticura Remedies.
I got a supply and continued with the
treatment for two months when my
skin became completely free from any
sores. I must say .that only for the mar-
vellous Cuticura Remedies I should have
been in agony all my life, and I am
deeply grateful to Cuticura. I also know
friends who have used Cuticura. Mrs.
M. Harney, Glen House, Merganstown,
Dunlavin, Co. Wicklow, Ire., Jan. 4, ’08.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
BABIES ON FIRE
With Torturing, Disfiguring
Humours, Cured by Cuticura.
Eczemas, rashes, itchings, irritations
and chafings are instantly relieved and
speedily cured, in the
majority of cases, by
warm baths with Cuti-
cura Soap and gentle
) applications of Cuti-
I cura Ointment, the
great Skin Cure. This
treatment permits rest
and sleep and points
to a speedy cure in the most distressing
cases, when all else fails. For preserv-
ing, purifying and beautifying the skin,
scalp, hair and hands, for sanative,
antiseptic cleansing and all purposes
of the toilet, bath and nursery, Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are priceless,
i Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
A Single Set often Cures. Depots: London. 27.
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Palx:
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney: South Africa,
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U.S.A., Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
m
Feurich Pianofortes
The ever-increasing popularity of
FEURICH PIANOFORTES is
attributable entirely to merit —
merit that has been won by a
life's study of the requirement of
a high-class instrument.
IN TONE.
In tone FEURICH instruments
are rich and brilliant, yet sweet
and sympathetic in their singing
quality.
IN TOUCH.
In touch their responsiveness
makes them a delight to play
upon.
IN CONSTRUCTION.
In construction they possess dura-
bility combined with artistic
design, and are worthy adorn-
ments for u the house beautiful."
We cordially invite inspection of our
new models.
Most moderate extended payments
arranged.
Old instruments taken in part exchange.
SOLE AGENTS—
-342 GEORGE STREET-SYDNEY.
Good Teeth means Good
i/pjlf) Health, and Good Health
v. y means Happiness. Nature
does her share to make you happy by giving you
o-ood teeth. It remains for you to do yours by keeping
them good, and remember always there is nothing-
better u) all the world for the teeth than the famous
/ —-v Eau de Cologne Tooth
b£7//) Powder. It not only cleanses the
<a ju y teeth, but gives a delightful odor and
freshness to the breath.
Obtainable .from all Chemists.
Man was intended by Nature to be happy, but you
can’t be happy if you have a Liver. Don’t despair.
¥ AXATINE will put you right. Try it.
OteMle from all Chemists.
X
si
m
S 3
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training-within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. VVe teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
Students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLECE
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Fig. 4614
GOULDS
“PREMIER” & “BORDEAUX”
Brass Garden Spray Pumps
For spraying, sprinkling, wash-
ing wagons, windows, and white-
washing: Light in weight, strong,
durable and easy operated. These
sprayers are used with a pail or
bucket. Cylinder, plunger, plunger
rod and gland are all brass, and the
air chamber contributes to the even
steady stream from the nozzle. A
strong iron foot-hold enables one to
pump with one hand and hold the
nozzle with the other. We manu-
facture a very complete line of pumps
for spraying and other purposes and
would be pleased to send a copy of our
Spray Catalogue to those interested.
THE GOULDS MFG. CO.
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S. A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
I : i«. 1129
m
Have you got “Shoe-
light,” our ill uB-
- booklet, des-
cribing-, with prices,
our very finest
Footwear ? You
should get a copy—
we’ll post it free on
receipt of name and
address.
This
Comfortable
and Stylish
LADY’S
SHOE
at
One
Guinea.
You could tell at a
irlance that this Shoe
combines style, com-
fort and good wear.
It is an Enamel Kid
Derby Oxford, with a
Welted Sole, and is
certain to prove one
of the most popular
Walking Shoes for
ihe coming outdoor
season.
because it is strongly
built, and at the
same time stylish in
appearance, we guar-
antee it, and price it
at One Guinea.
Add 9d. for postage
if ordering in Vic-
toria, or Is. if from
any other State.
LEEMINC’S Boot Stores, lOdSwanston St, Melb.;
1 & 3 Errol St., N. Melb. ; 303 Chapel St., Prahran.
Excess Fat i
Makes women look ten
years over their age.
Makes them ugly and
ungainly. Endangers
their health. Impedes
their progress, and
makes them a laugh-
ing-stock for their
acquaintances, and a
standing butt for
family jokes.
Weakens the heart,
and makes life miser-
able—as you know.
YOUH
IGMT
“FATCURE”
Makes life worth living-. It reduces the weight
permanently. Gives back the graceful curves
of a good figure. Strengthens the heart, and
gives perfect health where only indifferent
health had been existent owing to the accumu-
lated fat.
Send a 2d. stamp for free trial sample, and
full particulars, or call if convenient.
“FATCURE” is absolutely harmless, and is
pleasant to take.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance from Castlereagh or Market Streets.
129
DON’T LOOK OLD.
■» am in ■■■■»
DARKEN
TOUR
#li®i
WITH
W r>:
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“ XJRIOA.”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ness and kindred ailments.
iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiHH
IS
Ml
ii
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a complete
battery, which have an affinity for drawing
the uric acids to that part of the finger
that the ring is worn on, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
freeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 55.; Gold-
Filled, 55., 7s. 6d. and 10s. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required, or send for measurement card.
DUNKJLING,
The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemise or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F, C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
THE INDIAN COCKY
Thus Louis Esson, from India:—
When the Law-giver—the Bruce Smith of the Early
Aryan Household—spake the gospel, “Om ! Go on the
land, young man! ” after the first Aryan elans had
climbed the wall of the Himalayas and spread into the
pear-shaped Peninsula, he wot not the result of his
wisdom.
Clad in fashionably-cut sheepskin, the Best Dressed- of
all Lawgivers outlined the policy under which the people
would go forth and multiply. He said: “ The Farmer
and Producer are the Backbone of the State. Let the
people expand by the Law of Supply and Demand, and
buy in the cheapest market, and sell in the dearest.
Freetrade is the Gospel and the Law. All wealth is
derived from the Land. Therefore, go on the land, young
man, and let the Ayrshire Cow be for ever sacred.”
And in the beautiful Vedic hymns of George Reid, and
in the Upanishads of the Brahmins, Bill Wilks and Joe
Cook, the holy Smith doctrine was reiterated. “Young
man, go on the land ! Oil! ”
For 3000 years and more India has been going on the
land, and developing the great natural resources of the
country. The result is—lndia.
Than this self-sanje India there is no country on the
green earth that better exemplifies the compound bless-
ings of Cockydom, Cheap Labor, and Freetrade.
According to all Conservative theories, India should be
an Earthly Paradise, for it has no industries spoon-fed by
artificial tariffs, no Socialistic legislation to drive capital
out of the country, no paid members—in fact no mem-
bers of Parliament at all —and everybody is on the land or
is going there.
Certainty, if the backbone of a country is the cockatoo
farmer, then India should be the best-supported country
in the world, for it has sufficient agricultural backbone
for a dozen continents.
» * • •
Eighty per cent, of the population, Lord Curzon was
never weary of announcing, is on the land. What more
could Bruce desire ? India has taken his wise words to
heart, with the result that the ryot—the Indian cocky
(there is only about 195,000,000 of him)—has breathed the
free air of the country for several thousands of years, and
has got pigeon-chested and very thin in the legs (he needs
to be thin, else he would have no room to turn in his
fields).
A man of pure and simple tastes, frugal in habits, a
long-distance toiler, he should be a model for degenerate
Bush workers, who demand an afternoon off in the week,
and three square meals a day. Yet, so states Sir William
Hunter, one-fifth of the population, 60,000,000 people,
has insufficient food—think of it, O statesmen !—in-
sufficient even according to the Indian standard, which is
only a handful of rice once a day, and apart altogether
from the frequently-recurring famines.
It is instructive to visit a village community to see how
naturally farm life, a free life in the open air under God’s
ow'n hand-painted sky, produces an independent, stalwart
race of men, so different from the puny, stunted artisans
of unhealthy manufacturing towns.
In 3000 years this village life of India has suffered little
change ; as it was in the time of Rama, of Manu, of the
first George Reid, so is it to-day ; only year by year the
fields grow smaller, the Hindu Cohen requires greater in-
terest, and famines become more frequent.
Dotted throughout the country, at short intervals,
appear these villages, some mud-huts huddled together,
a mud temple, piles of stones, outhouses —everywhere
dust and manure, weary cows and lean goats tying ex-
hausted on the ground, dogs too spiritless to bark —all the
villages looking exactly alike, brown, tired, indescribably
mournful and depressing.
See the joyous Hindu cocky, nourished on pure
buffalo’s milk, scraping the weary earth with a prehistoric
plough, thinking of higher things, while stunted “ fol-
lowers” and “half-backs” from a Collingwood jam fac-
tory are playing football on a Saturday afternoon.
* * * *
The Hindu and his family live unostentatiously in a
small mud hut with a cowdung floor. They have no
unnecessary amusements, no vain extravagances. By
day, in the overworked and overcrowded fields, sliced
into- .tiny plots like handkerchiefs, men, women and
children, clad in rags, follow the plough, milk their goats
and buffaloes, or draw water, painfully, from the well.
Old women grind corn on the stone ; children chase the
goats that have straggled into a neighbor’s handkerchief ;
while the sacred bull—one is kept by every self-respecting
village—wanders wheresoever he wills, the sole plump
thing in the country—eating the scanty crop. And at
night, the villagers gather at the temple to thank God
for His good gifts.
It is a simple, pastoral life, the beau ideal of the Freetrade
theory. For the British Government has taken part in
the good work. Some £30,000,000 a year is paid by' the
grateful Indians to Britain, which, in return, has showered
on the country the full blessings of Freetrade, till the old
Indian trades and manufactures were crushed in the
interests of Manchester and Birmingham ; and the weavers
—there are millions of them—were exhorted, like the rest
of the inhabitants, to go on the land. It is sedition to
suggest that perhaps the land will break down if any
more Weight is dumped on it; and the highest dream
of the official mind is to propose, not that industries of
various kinds should be revived and introduced, but that
sub-clause A6x of the 15th irrigation scheme should be
rescinded, and another College of Experts on Manure
forthwith appointed.
And so more people are pushed on the land. Agricul-
ture is the most overcrowded profession on earth.
Rarely has an Indian cocky four annas in cash. Most of
him is in the hands of the moneylender, and he is a lucky
man if he can feed his family. In good years he has to
send away his produce—that is, what produce the money-
lender has left—to pay his debts ; in bad years, not
being able to store anything, he looks vaguely at the
brazen sky, and, seeing that it is the will of God and the
Government, he lies down quietly, and colonies of him
die off like flies.
Despite the money spent on irrigation, and a most
essential expenditure it is, famines are now more frequent
than in former years ; but they are famines of. money, not
of food. Vritra, the personification of Drought, never
rages so fiercely that there is insufficient food to support
the population. Indra, the Slayer of Drought, has not
forgotten his mission, for, even in the very' worst years,
food continues to be exported from India. The doctrine
of the cheap and dear market is curiously illustrated
when starving people help to truck the grain they have
themselves produced to feed a people who are already
fat. No, O Importer ! famine reveals not the judgment
of God ; it reveals only the foolishness of Freetrade.
The ryot has no capital—the moneylender attends to
that. And there is so much ryot. If he saved £2 10s. a
J'ear, he would be regarded in the village as a Fat Man, a
wealthy squatter. There is always plenty of food in
India, but the people are often, or generally', too poor to
pay for it.
And still the Sikh band plays Gaiety' tunes at the
officers’ mess, and Wise Men meditate at Simla and draw
their salaries, and the sacred bull is garlanded with
flowers, and the unnecessary weavers can find no work,
and more people become cookies, and famines come at
shorter intervals.
And the ryot still patiently scratches the unresponsive
earth, and thanks God and Bruce Smith for sending him
on the land.
But his buffalo is very, very thin.
An official, who made peregrinations through the
rate books of some of the country shires in the
Bent State, has just apprised Adolphus of the
result. He says that, out of 22 shires visited, the
literature revealed that in only one shire were the
land valuations good ; that in five they were fair ;
while in the other 16 they ranged from “low” to
“very low,” which means that the man with
£lOOO worth of land pays on, perhaps, £250 worth—
in other words, that the alleged rate of As. in the £
is really only 3d. in the £. And when this 3d. in
the £ produces insufficient revenue the country
landowner appeals to Bent for a subsidy. Bent
also learned that 112 new and hitherto unsus-
pected big estates, averaging 2150 acres each, had
been found and added to the land-tax register,
and that 46 other estates already on the register
had proved to be 35,019 acres bigger than was sup-
posed—in other words, they had grown by that
amount since the last inspection. The search for
new big"estates will be resumed when the Fleet
holidays are quite over.


AT POVERTY POINT.
Cecil Sharp, formerly well-known in, Adelaide—he wrote
the music for an opera by the late Guy Boothby,. long
before the latter was ever heard of as a novelist—is now a
recognised authority on “folk’’songs (the ballads of the
countryside) in England. His best collection was taken
from the lips of old people in Somerset, the Rev. Charles
Marson—another old Adelaide identity-—looking after the
words while Mr. Sharp secured the tunes. In a
popular lecture which the latter is giving all over
England he marks four points: (1) Of the folk-
songs 90 per cent, are concerned with love. (2) Adven-
ture comes next, and home does not seem to matter ;
there is no “ Home, Sweet Home” in folk-song. (3) Nor
is there any patriotic song. All that kindof thing comes
from the cities ; the countryman does not look at things
from the national point of view. A new bridge or a cul-
vert is more important to him than a tariff or a navy. (4)
The up-country ballad is in dead earnest; it may have
some sly humor, improper or otherwise, but it is never
intentionally funny. The deadly “comic” song is
another product of the towns.
“ S.S.”: “ Miss Hook of Holland ” brought here, in Mr.
Roland Bottomiey, a precise replica of the bonny boy who
has graced every company sent us from England within the
last few years. , The type is astonishingly uniform. It is
good-looking on Du Maurier lines ; it has a sensitive
mouth, large eyes, and a dimple in its chin ; it wears its
clothes well, sings a bit, and acts indifferently.
Obviously its mission in the drama is to look picturesque
and please the ladies. But have they factories in Grand-
motherland for producing the item ? Do they turn them
out from moulds by the gross? Certainly no company—
comedy, dramatic, or musical—is now considered
complete without a sample. lam convinced that before
many years have sped the bonny male ballet will be a
feature of every well-regulated musical play.
The forthcoming Australian bushdrama, built by Bert
Bailey and Duggan for the Anderson co., is not to be
known as “ The Man from Snowy River,” but as the man
from somewhere else. Before deciding to appropriate the
title of “Banjo” Paterson’s work, the showmen asked his
blessing on the proposal, and were referred to Angus and
Robertson. The publishing firm replied with a refusal,
and Bailey-Duggan accepted the rebuff without demur.
From a purely business point of view, the production of a
possibly successful stage-shocker, bearing the name of an
old-established book of verses, appeared likely to be good
for trade. The bill of the play, in mentioning the book,
would have notified its existence to many people for the
first time, and have provoked discussion about it, with-
out doing any damage to the author’s reputation among
the thousands who already knew all the difference
between a popular set of old Bulletin verses and a bush
frenzy in 16 acts and a garish backcloth.
“Harrison O.”: What is the secret of the apparently
irresistible fascination which J. Knight exerts over
the sex which buttons its clothes at the back?
He is really not so very utterly lovely, so ter-
ribly, inexpressibly beautiful. I have seen Julius in all
of his big parts—M. Superhumanus, Beaucaire, Claudian,
the Zenda bloke, Raffles, N. Bonaparte, and others.
There have always been handsomer men in the cast. I
know that I am a sacrilegious sort Of brute, but this is the
unmitigated truth. J. Knight is a short, brief, little
bloke, and his costumes are the only imposing part of
him. Even his much-vaunted calves, are poor things
compared to those of many of his fellow miriies. There
are a dozen handsomer men upon the Australian stage
at the present time, but there is not one who is half as
picturesque, and therein, I suppose, is to be found his
means of feminine allurement. It is no good being a
fearfully beautiful man nowadays, unless you are a per-
fect poseur and a judicious advertiser.
The Australasian Concert Company, an Adelaide syndi-
cate which brought from England the Newcastle Artillery
band and other attractions that unexpectedly failed to
attract, has wound itself up in some haste, the balance-
sheet showing a loss of over £4OOO.
Jimmy B. Atholwood, who was “ shopped ” recently on
one of the flimsiest possible bigamy charges, is now
“ shopped” in another and cheerier sense. He is to ap-
pear as the Earl of Mount Highgate in “The Belle of
Mayfair,” which Meynell and Gunn are staging shortly
at Sydney Criterion.
“ Melb ” : The Eureka Stockade dramas lately produced
here by O’Sullivan and Duggan showed the flag just as a
representation of the stars of the Southern Cross
in white on a blue ground. I have been educated to
believe this was the immortal Eureka flag. However, the
biograph show of the Stockade flag showed a red cross
over it, from top to bottom and side to side. In this
cross were placed four stars, one on each arm. I referred
this point to an old Ballarat man, and he said it was
wrong. The cross of the dramas was the correct one. So
I was confirmed in my first opinion. However, a day or
two ago I dropped on a copy of Carboni Raffaelle’s “ His-
tory of the Eureka,” This had on the cover the cross
right over the flag and the stars in it, according to the
biograph. Now, Raffaelle was one of the insurgents—
apparently next man to Lalor, Black and Vern. His flag
must surely be right. Let the point be cleared up, for
the Southern Cross is to be the future flag of this nation.
What ladies made the Eureka banner ? A policeman tore
it down. It was reported to have been preserved in
Warrnambool.
The rival attractions of the Fleet visit and the Royal
Agricultural Show, clashing in Melbourne last week, did
all the harm they could to one another. Each of the
Fleet functions (after Monday) was a severe blow to the
R.A.S. receipts, whereas the mere presence of the R.A.S.
was the same as the thrust of a cold wet dagger into the
ribs of Fleet week. The bucolic carnival in Melbourne
has ever been a feast of mud and flow of rain. Providence
ordains it in order that the local newspaper reporter may
repeat his stereotyped reference to the “ joyful farmers,”
who splodge through the slosh of the Flemington Show-
grounds, swopping damp congratulations re the value of
the downpour to the country. Fine weather for the
Fleet was practically impossible, seeirig that it would
have necessitated fine weather for the Show, which
is in itself almost an impossibility. And even had
there been any wavering in the intention of Providence
the milkmen of Melbourne were determined that Wednes-
day, anyhow, should be a wet occasion. It was their
annual holiday—the day when the Lord sendeth the
bounteous rainfall as a token that milkmen shall not live
by milk alone, but by the water they pour into their cans.
All things considered, the Bent Government deserved a
vote of public censure for allowing the Agricultural
Society 1 and the adulterated water vendors to hold their
yearly revels at a time when Melbourne was full of out-
door functions in honor of the Fleet. Happy is the
bunting that the sun shines upon. But of sad, sad things
in gala rags the saddest of all are the rain-soaked flags.
During the recent Brisbane season of “ Brewster’s
Millions,” J. C. Williamson offered the usual two guineas
to the man who could give Brewster the best hint for
spending his quarter of a million in a year. “Marry
‘ The Merry Widow,’ ” said the cynical winner.
“ J.”: It is a strange fact, and considerably to Aus-
tralia’s credit withal, that its theatrical public shows very
little hankering for the crude unhealthy “ sensation ” of
foreign parts. A Parisian variety show is running a
“ thrill ” called “ Gadbin’s Leap.” Gadbin dives nightly
from a platform 100 ft. high on to a highly-polished
wooden shute. This gathers his body and swishes him
down and up switchback-wise until he lands, after a final
somersault, on his feet. The least misjudgment and
Gadbin would break his neck—which *is, of course, the
whole joy' of his turn. A N’York syndicate is running
an “ Aerial Auto Race ” show item. Two motors are used.
One dashes down an incline and then up, leaves the run-
way, turns a somersault in mid-air, and crashes on to
another run-way, 40ft distant. Meanwhile the other
motor is somersaulting 30ft. below between a couple of
platforms. The cars have occupants who are strapped to
the seats. In Paris three years ago a girl did an act of
this sort at the “Fobs Bergbres.” It was called the
“ Whirl of Death.” There were about 20 performances
without mishap, and then they unstrapped her one night
to find her dead. In fact she was a corpse.. She had
passed out through heart failure during the motor’s
flight. London, according to the latest files, is to have a
revival of the perilous high-diving business into a shallow
tank that flourished 10 years ago at the Westminster
Aquarium.
ALL INTEREST WILL DIE OUT.
HE: “ In Heaven all the seeming mysteries and
contradictions which have baffled our poor
human intelligence will then be made clear to
us.”
SHE: “My dear man! If that’s so it’s no sort
of place for a woman.”
“D.”: On his showing with Bill Lang last week
Tommy Burns has studied the plays of G. B. Shaw to some
purpose, and is as skilled a mummer as ever Cashel
Byron (for all the latter’s actress-mother) was. Here is
the Melbourne Age account of what happened to William :
“ Lang then made a desperate effort to retrieve his
fortunes, and rushed in to mix, it, when, to the utter
astonishment of everyone, Burns dropped his hands, and
Lang began to hit at his head with both hands. Left and
right he struck time and time again, with never a blow
struck back by Burns. “You’ve got him good. Bill!”
the crowd yelled. “Keep it going. Hooray! You’ll
win.” Then the champion’s audacity was noticed. He
had a smile on his face ;he was actually enjoying it. He
knew he had sapped Lang’s strength, and he knew there
wasn’t a knock-out punch left in him. He had deliber-
ately given Lang his head to play with for a while. Sud-
denly his powerful stocky figure stiffened up, and he just
calmly and coolly measured off his distance and knocked
Lang down and out.
And here is Shaw’s description of Byron’s dealings with
the Flying Dutchman :
Round Three: the rumor that had gone about
Of a breakdown in Byron’s recent training
Seemed quite confirmed. Upon the call of time
He rose, and, looking anything, but cheerful
Proclaimed with every breath, Bellows to Mend.
At this point six to one was freely offered
Upon the Dutchman
Cashel
Was clearly groggy as he slipped the sailor,
Who, not to be denied, followed him up,
Forcing the fighting ’mid tremendous cheers.
“ Forty to one ” the Dutchman’s Friends exclaimed.
The issue seemed a cert
When Cashel, ducking smartly to his left,
Cross-countered like a hundredweight of brick :
The Dutchman went to grass a beaten man.
•**■**
A scene of indescribable excitement .
Ensued ; for it was now quite evident
That Byron’s grogginess had all along
Been feigned
We trust this sample of colonial smartness
Will not find imitators on this side.
The losers settled up like gentlemen :
But many felt that Byron showed bad taste
In taking old Ned Skene upon his back
And, with Bob Mellish tucked beneath his oxter
Sprinting a hundred yards to show the crow’d
The perfect pink of his condition.
“0.K.”: Talking of “how British is spoke on the
stage,” the alleged difference in Carrie Moore’s accent
since she w'ent to England is only a matter of “ Harrison
O.’s ”’ imagination. Her habit of drawling and pulling
her words out of shape dates back to Carrie’s early girl-
hood, and was often remarked by Thf. Bulletin long
before she took leave of Australia. Doubtless she would
have acquired the fault in England (where it is quite a
common mannerism on the lyric stage) if she had not
been already provided with it. Again, as regards the
word “girl.” The true old bellowdramatic pronunciation
is not “gur-r-yl,” as “Harrison O.” spells it, but
“gyurl,” or “gyurrl.” In the common, everyday way of
speaking, a young human female is a gurl, and as such
she is referred to by the majority of actors. But
the students of elocution mostly endeavor to
draw a nice distinction between “ girl ” and
“ gurl,” with the result that they commit them-
selves to an unmistakable “gyurl.” The educated
Irish (who pride themselves on their custom of teaching
English people how to speak their language) are greatly
addicted to “gyurl.” In the palmy days of the Brough
and Boucicault company there was a lot of “ gyurl” in the
best Australian stage-talk. Dot Boucicault, who had in-
herited the Irish tongue, exhorted all the younger members
of the co. to “ lay the accent on the i in pronouncing the
word ‘girl.’” So they said “gyurl” in the tone of
superior persons who would have died at the stake rather
than say “ gurl.” All the old actors of the Macready
school were strong on “gyurl ” and “ cheild.”
A woman writer in London hails the new dramatist,
Dr. Somerset Maugham, as likely to put an end
to stage love-making of the artificial order. In “Mrs.
Dot,” she says, young people in love “ behave exactly as
people do in real life ” ; that is, they are “ sheepish, sham-
bling, and inarticulate, but manage to get there all the
same.” At the end, instead of honey and slow music, the
heroine, Mrs. Dot, recalls a retreating admirer by throw-
ing a sofa-cushion at him. He comes back, and is taking
the privilege of an accepted lover by calling her a “ little
fool ” as the curtain falls—a “ modern, realistic, and ex-
tremely probable phrase,” the lady journalist calls it.
The Australian World (London) says: “Mr. Cyril
Keightley, who is at present playing the part of Ashe in
‘ The Marriage of William Ashe ’ at Terry’s Theatre, has
heen engaged by Mr. Charles Frohman to support Miss
Billie Bourke on her next American tour. Mr. Keightley
is a son of one of Australia’s most courageous women.
Mrs. Keightley, who in her youth was a great beauty and
a famous rider, distinguished herself in connection with
the capture of a notorious bushranger.” Mrs. Keightley
was a daughter of Henry Rocton, mail contractor,
publican and legislator, and never distinguished herself
in the capture of any notorious bushranger. With Dr.
Peeehy she went from Rockley to Bathurst to get £5OO
from her father, Henry Rotton, to release her husband
from Ben Hall’s gang, the latter keeping him prisoner in
his own house until the doctor returned with the coin.
“ 10-2-4 ” : I am no wild admirer of Tittell Brune, but I
note one asset she has that Margaret Anglin lacks. The
Brune voice has a “ carrying ” capacity almost equal to
that of G. H. Reid’s shrill organ. I defy the sharpest-
eared auditor to catch Margaret Anglin’s low-pitched sen-
tences from the hack of any ordinary dress-circle,
but Tittell Brune’s charming and tuneful speaking-
voice is audible everywhere in whatever key she
uses it. It is not a matter of enunciation, as in this re-
gard there seems little to choose between the two actresses,
but simply of voice timbre. For my part lam deaf, but
in the dress-circle the other night I heard Tittell’s faintest
notes. I applauded the lady with enthusiasm when the
curtain fell, not so much for her art as for the fact that
she is about the only mime I have struck of late years to
whom I can listen from afar without effort.
“S.S.”: Remarkable is the resemblance in voice and
method between Margaret Anglin and Henry Kolker in
“The Thief” and Nance O’Neil and McKee Rankin in
“Magda.” “ The Thief” is far below “ Magda” in literary
and dramatic merit, but the tempestuous bedroom
scene calls for a somewhat similar display of emotional
pyrotechnics between Margaret and Henry as that in
which Nance and her Rankin shook Her Majesty’s to its
foundations. Closing my eyes at “ The Thief,” I easily
imagined Magda and her massive, stodgy military parent
were having it out all over again. Kolker’s voice is a
wonderful reproduction of Rankin’s. Anglin’s has not
O’Neil’s golden resonance, but there are strong points of
similarity, and the methods of the two actresses are much
alike.
Major W. P. Drury, one of the joint authors of “The
Flag Lieutenant,” the naval drama of which J. C.
Williamson has secured the Australian rights, is a
Queenslander, who joined Bull’s navy about 20 years ago.
He has held several important positions in Egypt, the
chief being that of Governor of Fashoda at the time of
the unpleasantness between France and Britain over that
place. Major Drury visited Australia last year.
Mr. Jo. Smith, a well-known amateur actor of Melbourne,
has scored a notable success as a dramatist, having had a
four-act drama accepted bv Me.vnell and Gunn on hand-
some terms. The atmosphere of the play is early Aus-
tralian ; it deals largely with the days of the diggers,
when the red Crimean shirt was alleged to be the national
garment. The piece will first see the footlights in Sydney
when the spring poets are bursting into song and the
green cow-feed is springing up on the surface of the
earth.
“Kodak,” about a Really High-Class Concert: The
night was more than wet—it was soaked to the soul, and
the wind in both hands and whirled and
flapped and careered round the heavens with its hair
down, shrieking. The only thing in all my experience
that ever shroke like it was a mad woman that two police-
men were taking to the asylum. The trams, with water
spurting from their roofs, and the spiteful electricity
spitting blue above them, slid and jolted along the gleam-
ing streets. Thunder boomed, rumbled and crashed in
the attics of Heaven, and the sobbing gutters gurgled and
told all their past life to the sympathetic drain. I stood
under a city verandah with two guinea tickets for a
Really High-Class Concert. They had been pressed upon
me by a friend who hated Really High-Class Concerts and
wet nights. So he handed over the tickets ; and, after
cursing and telling me how it was he had been forced to
buy them, he warned me not to waste them, and
departed, shivering, to his home and fireside. I stood
brooding over the wrong he had done me, and
listening to the roar of the rain on the galvanised iron
until a policeman told me to move on into the wet. I put
up the other fellow’s umbrella with a muttered maledic-
tion and splashed along to the hall. The portico and corri-
dors were filled with damp, white-faced, serious people
and a low-spirited smell of rubber ’tosh. I edged
through the crowd, left my umbrella, overcoat, hat
and goloshes and two quarts of water in the cloak
room, and, after giving my ticket to one doleful usher,
was conducted by another doleful usher to one particular
hard chair in a vast desert of hard chairs all numbered
with tags. I picked up a programme with the star’s
photograph on the outside of it and read it through 38
times, while the draught from the open door poured down
the back of my collar in an icy cataract. A stout woman
in front of me, who was a good yard taller than
her clothes, gave a polite little shiver, and said, “ Mai
goodness! It’s rah’ly very cold. Where’s my scarf?”
She seized a scrap of lace like a canary’s overcoat from
her spacious lap, and draped it carefully over her
shoulders. From where I sat it looked like an antima-
cassar on a dome. Then the star came on with his violin
under his arm, and everyone applauded furiously until he
had bowed 35 times. The accompanist took his seat at
the piano, and for a solid half-hour they both played
difficult exercises with scraps of melody interspersed.
Whenever a tune started to develop itself out of the riot
of sound, either the piano or the fiddle deliberately got
out of step and fled down a side street. At the end of half-
an-hour they stopped and went off, and the crowd
applauded with feet and hands. The pair re-appeared
four times, bowed 23 times, and finally disappeared.
Followed a dismal wait, and then a tall, severe-looking
lady strode on to the platform and sang three German
songs. Her accompanist looked like a man who took life
and his piano seriously, and his cheeks shook sympatheti-
cally whenever he hit the keyboard harder than usual.
He peered at the music as if he suspected it was hiding
something from him. There was.a good deal of “ Ach ! ”
in the songs, and the lady had to pronounce it with the
back of her throat. She let off her top notes like sound
rockets, and usually the tail of the last one was just
dwindling into silence up at the end of the hall before
she opened her lips and sent the next one soaring after it.
All the time, the intensely pale, flaccid accompanist was
busily engaged getting the piano to prattle its silly little
secrets to him, and worming his way into its con-
fidence. When the tall, severe lady had let off
all her vocal rockets, she retired with an uncompromising
sort of bow, and the pale accompanist—who, apparently,
hadn’t found out what he wanted—slapped the piano 10
times on the face and went away. Three men then came
up from the depths. They dragged the piano that had
been slapped to one side. Then they pushed another
piano forward and, although it squealed and jibbed, they
brought it to the centre of the stage, propped its roof up
with a stick and left it all open and defenceless so that
anyone could look in and see its bowels. A languid,
dark-haired man then strolled on, and, sitting down before
the frightened instrument, played some music descriptive
of the rotten weather. The raging storm outside heard
it and tried to get in to blow the artist under the organ :
the draughts from the corridor all rushed in together and
planted their cold feet against the back of the woman
with the canary’s overcoat; the aides began to wear the
look of men perishing for whisky and soda; and the
music rumbled and rolled, clashed, jangled, rippled and
moaned, while the enraged storm shook the place in its
teeth and tried to force an entrance. When the number
had blown itself out and the piano was quite dead, the
dark-haired man got up and bowed. Everyone shouted
and cheered and stamped, and a youth delivered some
vegetables at the platform. In the interval between the
25ch and 26th recall, I.noticed that the violinist had a
symphony or two to unravel when the place recovered
itself. With a dreadful, inward .yell of fear, I rose and
rushed to the street, via the cloakroom.
“ Sr.”: “ ‘-At last ! Oh, my love, at last! ’he breathed
close to her crimsoning cheek. And the Gates of Eden
were open wade, and Esme and
Gerald, hand in hand, were
walking now within.” This is
the tail of a tale that the
shop-girl commonly affects
along- with her three sand-
wiches and piece of cake at
dinner-time. It is the most
usual of the endings to a
“ Millionaire’s Love Story,” or
“ Laird Anstruthender’s Tart”;
and I reckon the captains of
the melodrama industry ought
to collect the fag-ends of these
penny-dreadfulsand reproduce
them’ on the boards. How
much more pathetic and
natural would it be if, in the
grand finale, instead of the
stage being crowded with the
whole company and the pre-
cocious infants set in tableau
or picture fashion, with the
hero and heroine cuddling each
other On the banks of the foot-
lights, and the villain and his
cigarette being arrested at the
R.U.E. by the comic police-
men, there was a garden of
Eden, painted in subtle tones
by the upholsterer, with angels
and seraphim and whatnot
flying here and there and
round about, and in the gar-
den, standing still to slow
music, Gerald and Esme with
large wings on them to show
that they have got married
and will enjoy the blessings
of Paradise for the rest of
their days.
MISS’ HAZY (in
“ Mrs. Wiggs" at
Her Majesty's,
Sydney).
“ Henry Phelthatt” : Willie Flynn, champion musicianer
of Reedy Swamp, interviewed on his return to the Swamp,
after hearing- Jan of the hair make music : “ What do T
think of Kuberlick? Oh ! he’s passable. He’s fair with
the bow, an’ he fetches a great sound out of a fiddle, but
that’s the fiddle’s fault; there’s no doubt about she’s a
hummer. But, as I says, he’s on’y passable. He’s got a
lot ter pick up yet. In the firs’ place, he dpn’t hold
his fiddle right—gets no grip on her ter speak of;
consequently she ain’t solid, an’ his playin’s jest
like a cove with the D.T’s. Another thing, he don’t
use his bass string half wot he ort. You take notice of
me—a good player fairly makes his bass string hum. He’s
too stiff in th’ elbows for my likin’; an’ I’ll sling yer one
straight tip about him. He’ll be no good for darnce
music if- ever he’s tested. He’s too cunnin’ fer them
Sydney people, and won’t play nothin’ but Latin chunes
wot nobody knows. You wait till they get him playin’
fer their darnces. There’s a lot about fiddlin’ as he don’t
know. Anyhow', I’d like ter play him fer a tenner.”
“ Hamer” : Great care has to be exercised in selecting
the actor who is to double parts. If the mummer com-
bines an inefficiency in the art of make-up with an
artistic badness sufficient to make him prominent, he is
likely to bring the show into ridicule. I remember an
alleged actor who, owing to the largeness of the cast
and the smallness of the co., was given four parts to
enact; and being a very ineffectual person, he appeared
as the same futile idiot each time. It wouldn’t have
been so bad if he hadn’t been murdered with a black-
smith’s hammer in the first act, shot dead in the second,
and fatally stabbed in the third. In the fourth act he
had a violent encounter with the hero, and one night an
exasperated member of the audience, w'ho had taken a
dislike to him, advised the hero thus: “ Mind you do for
the blighter this time. He’s been killed three times
already.” That remark taught the management wisdom,
and it engaged a better man for the four parts, and set
the {utile one to scene-shifting.
THE TOLL OF ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I stand off and study animals’ characters. Talk about
Sara Bernhardt watching crooks on sentence-day. She
isn’t in it with me getting wise' to the genuine Newfound-
land stunt.
“ It’s harder work being a dog every night than coaling
an American battleship. Sometimes I find myself
wagging my head as I go along the side walk, and bark-
ing in niv sleep. It’ll be me for the nut-house before
I’m through. One animal man in America got in the
giggle-giggle ward, and his talk there was worse than
Kipling’s ‘Just-so Stories.’”— Chas. H. Weston (“ The
Garrick of Animal Mimes” and impersonator of Nana, the
Ostrich and the Crocodile in “ Peter Pan ”) to a S. M.
Herald interviewer.
It is a dreadful thing to be
Absorbed in an Art
That needs an abnormality
Of intellect and heart.
He who would play a dog-part must
Endure a canine’s life,
His finer feelings run to rust
He leaves his loving wife,
And seeks the kennel in the y r ard
Where Towser lives. There he
(The Artist namely) studies hard
At hound psychology.
Later he’s “cast,” as like as not,
In a “ fat ” ostrich rdle ;
He braves the desert’s arid hot
Expanse, and from a hole
Notes how the birds gyrate and play.
(No conscientious mime
May a “ fat ” ostrich rdle essay
Unless in Afric’s clime.
He’s learnt, of these quaint fowl, the ways.)
He’s feathered for a while ;
Then comes a time when he portrays
A twelve-foot crocodile.
The which necessitates a trip
To Egypt far away
In an ill-found, and smelling ship. . , «
The while his hair grows grey',
And drawn his face with chronic gloom ;
Now Art and mind are flown—
The giggle-ward’s grim portals loom ;
The nut-house claims its own.
N.S.W.
J. BEDE.
THE REINCARNATOGRAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Smith worried much in silence,
Smith would knit his brows with pain ;
He damned the boat that took him
Back to Sydneyside again.
He had done a year of Europe,
Had of everything the best—
He was healthy, rich and youthful,
But infernally depressed.
He’d annex the cosy corners
Where the couples sought to lurk ;
And he’d study through his waking
Hours a bulky occult work.
His talk, infrequent, was about
Some mystic brotherhood,
Till some feared that he’d jump over,
And the others hoped he would.
At last, when sad Socotra
Was some fifteen miles away,
He sought out Bill McGuinness,
Whom he knew at Mosman Bay,
Saying “ Bill, you’ll keep my secret”—
As he warmly pressed his fist—
“'l no longer am a Wusslean,
For I’ve turned Theosophist.
‘ The trip I’ve just concluded
Has dispelled my final doubt,
That there’s more in our philosophy
Than we can ferret out;
And the only way that Nature
A solution clear will grant
Is to follow in the footprints made
By Mrs. A. Besant.
“ I’m now convinced that I have been
Upon this earth before
On a number of occasions—
But I’m sure at least a score.
Since I started on this journey
Fully fifty spots I’ve seen
That are perfectly familiar —
Where I know I must have been.
“ Now before I turned the corner
Of St. Martin’s and the Strand,
I felt I’d see before me
Spread the entrance to the Grand ;
I knew how, by the cafbs,
Stood that cabaret alone
In the Rue de Boshterina,
Off the Boulevard Malone.
“ ’Twas just the same at Pompeii—
Each detail there I knew.
All the Casa Vetii frescoes
That the ancient Johnnies drew ;
At Rome the Forum wasn’t strange,
I knew the butchers’ shops ;
And ’twas just like Pitt and George streets
When I stood beside Cheops.”
Smith was visibly affected,
And a teardrop filled his eye,
And he said : “ Of Nature’s mysteries,
I know the reason why.
So I crave to learn the secrets
Of my visits to the|Earth,
And the circumstance surrounding
Each recurrence of my birth.”
McGuinness laughed a laugh that rang
Across the seas afar,
As he said to Smith : “ You really
Shouldn’t pull your leg so far;
For the places that you mention
You saw eighteen months ago,
On a night we went together
To a Sydney picture show.”
N.S.W.
A.B.


Shipping.
Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Pour Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l Ids
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
, Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (|)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Omen :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 111.527 —Assuring £32.753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitnblv distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The H'or.. C. .1. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. .1. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
|ank of jjorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, (Burns, Philp &Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking- Business.
|ank of fled Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS
WE
w
&>
$
♦
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Com pan j T was formed to Suppress Usury.
TXT.S.AA/ -
|||ontdepietej)'£|.Co.,[ti!.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLKJtt-fciAG-H S t., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Oerieral Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors- —Svdnev * Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibb's, Bright &Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. :
S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY -
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .1 t .. •• £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortyajres) .. £30,000 0 0
Direct ore : E. R Godfrey, Esq., Chai rinan : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman ; Jotm Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES ROKIioW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before buildinsr
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. StkriiK, sole Atrent.
Shipping.
UNT- X 3. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHF.R LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and. Bremen.
’Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, YAP, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ SICISMUND 22nd SEPT.
MANILA 20th OCT.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 17th NOV.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
TeUO9B. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
/ Banking. Public Companies. &c.
fhe Royal gank of Queensland
11M TI KI).
Capital Paid-up ;. . .. .. £485,003 10 0
Rkskrvk Liability op Sharkholdkrs .. 167,857 10 0
Rp.skrvk FiiNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Enwn. D. DaY. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthkws
. London Opficp, :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Aaents and Correspondents
Thrpuahout. the. World.
POLICY KOR THK COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
OALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
•Twin Screw. f New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund's Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, (tec., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
WHITE STAR LINE.
m
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
Septemuer 30.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 20.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l6 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &o. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets , Timetables , and all other Information
on AvnlierUion.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and ('om.jta.ny. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
} HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
m
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
VERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR AND SHIRTS
are a safeguard against >
COLDS AND CHILLS
• during the change of seasons.
VERTEX CELLULAR should always be worn next
the body.
Recommended by Doctors and Scientists all over
the world.
Write for Pamphlets and Illustrated Price Lists
Post Free.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
NEAT OTd
STRONG.
TO
MEND
BELTS'and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all . Ironmongeis or Store-
X keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Wairiqgton. Eng.
Pirice List on
application.
Hotels, &c.
mm
2SSSS
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
f "\
POSITION UNRIVALLED *
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W t
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality. S
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find Qverv comfort and convenience at—
MRS>. TOBIMS,
Queen’s Mansions, ‘i to 5 Beacon ifield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rrHj3 Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, d-hour
by tram. Billiards' etc. Telephone No,-107, Windsor.
MONDAY, 28tH SEPTEMBER, at 11 o’clocK,
POST OFFICE AUCTION MART, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
THE WHITE ROSE FLOUR MILL
SITUATED IN BALLOW STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE.
By Order of'the Mortgagees.
TSLES LOVE & CO. will sell by auction Subs. 4 and 5 of Block 13 of Eastern Suburban
Allotment 73, Parish of North Brisbane, 30.72 perches with 100 feet frontage to BALUUYV
STREET bv a depth of 100 feet, with Improvements known as
THE WHITE ROSE FLOUR MILL,
a New Brick Building containing ■ , „J, TT , as< ,; Vß l v
(а) BRICK FLOUR STORE, with two floors 98ft. x 50ft. and 98ft. by 34ft., massively
built for storage of 2000 tons of flour and wheat. TPnm'ne
(б) BRICK FLOUR MILL of four storeys and basement with 25ft. frontage, Engi
House attached, office, shed, Bft. .Mill Verandah, and 20ft. entrance.
NEW MACHINERY.
35 H.P. BOILER, 20 H.P. (nom.) ENGINE with 14-inch Cylinder, 30-inch Stroke, 70ft. Belt,
COMPEKTE ROBINSON k 8 SACKMILL (installed in 1902) with all
and every requisite for the manufacturing of Flour m the most up-to-date man .
INVENTORY and further particulars, TERMS, etc.-, on application o _
ISLES LOVE & CO., Auctioneers, Queen Street^Brisbane^
Sftlpplni
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
■S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
September 12.
BRISBANE,
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Marloo, Sept. 19.
S.S. Wollowra, Sept. 26.
Best anti Cheapest, Haute fa (fat tl Ileitis.
Saloon Passage Tickets are. interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JYJESSAGERIES J^JARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
57 Pitt Street.
Tel. 375.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELOKG
B0MBAriA v 2p.m., SATURDAY,
September 12.
COOMA, 2p.ip. \ SATURDAY,
KYARRA, 12 noon / Sept. 19.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cat'ffo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
KYARRA, boon, SATURDAY,
September 19.
BRISBANE N
MARYBOROUGH
BUN DA BERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS'
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, September 12.
GABO, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
September 15.
BOM BALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 19.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S, Companies. Foil particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1703. ,
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE. BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
ONION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Miimisrinir Agents, George-sweet, Sydney.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Cenuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in D/ARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE .
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England— HH, 2/9i 4/6.


The Law inquired into a couple of divorce
cases in Melbourne the other afternoon, and felt
quite good with itself when it had handed the
second petitioner the required decree nisi, The
cases themselves were in no wise unusual, though
quite improper ; but it was their correct sequence
—the nice, tidy, orderly manner in which they
transpired—that put the Law in a mellow frame
of mind. In the first case, Mrs. Cattach, aged 22
no less, said that the day after she married Alex.
Cattach, he left her parents’ house to look for
work, and omitted to return. She had since ascer-
tained that he was “ keeping house ” in another
suburb. As Mrs. Cattach was leaving court with
her decree, the next petitioner, Joseph Cahill,
was telling his Honor that his wife, aged 21, had
wearied of his society, and was now keeping house
for Alex. Cattach. The Law, which was Justice
Hodges just then, seemed to have a dim suspicion
that it had heard that name before ; also that the
Law was making the path to matrimonial pro-
priety easy for a couple of grievous sinners. But
the beautiful regularity of the proceedings im-
pressed it, and it dissolved Mr. Cahill’s marriage
likewise. Then, having handed Alex. Cattach
orders for two sets of Costs —one as respondent,
the other as co-re. —it knocked off work and went
home.
A family near Pinjarrah (W.A.) has tried
an Anglo-Jap alliance on its own account, and it
is wearing mourning now. A man named Shaw,
who was half-fisherman and half-farmer, took Oki
Iwakiohi into the business as a partner. Somehow
the Anglo-Jap alliance didn’t pan out as the
story —when Japan was scratched, the veneer
came off, and what was underneath looked like
plain savage. Consequently the Anglo end of
the alliance took steps to end the unfortunate
business ; whereupon Japan set about wiping his
ally out with cool deliberation. First, lest its
partner might escape, it went to the mooring
place and cut all the boats adrift; then it
went back, took a gun, and shot the Anglo end
of the alliance dead. Japan didn’t take any risks
—it just held the gun up against the other man’s
neck, and tired. After that Oki made for the
scrub, but was arrested a few days later. When
they dragged him out from under the table where
he was trying to hide himself, Japan made a
remark that is worth remembering—“ Yes, me
shoot him, the fool.” He was. But he is
dead now.
The most ogreish economy effected under
the Carruthers, and continued under the Wade,
regime in hI.S.W. is the cutting down by 3d. a
day of the cancer-dresser’s allowance in the Liver-
pool Asylum for the Aged and Destitute. That
public servant (for what else is he, although a
patient, seeing that he is appointed to wash and
lotion and poultice the cancer wounds of the in-
mates ?) used to be paid Is. per day for his grue-
some services, but he- was reduced to 9d. on the
ground that hard times were coming, and economy
was required. True, the hard times didn’t come
—in fact, splendidly prosperous times came; but
it was the fiction of the moment tliatN.S.W. was
ruined by Federation, and in consequence there
was an ostentatious taking in of canvas in readi-
ness for the storm. And part of the canvas that
was taken in was this miserable 3d.
REFEREE tobacco,
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
VR ill,
Should be in every home as well as in every hospital.
When you are worried and cannot eat well nor sleep well, you will
find a great help in BO VEIL.
BEWARE OE CHEAP IMITATIONS.
o
By Royal Warrant to
m
His Majesty the King.
m
m
%
<§>
r
N
V
3
S
%
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
422 GEORGE STREET.
Under Viee-Reg'al
m
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereasrh Streets.
i»“ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
ich is a Father’s Proudest Day ?
PROBABLY the proudest day in a father’s life-time is the day his daughter gets married to the man of her choice, and with his full approval. He is proud
of her and proud to see that he is not the only one who appreciates her good qualities just as much. You will probably wonder what that has got to do
with us—but just wait. The proud father will naturally want to fittingly mark the occasion by means of a handsome and useful wedding gift. It is in
the supplying of just such an article that we come in. Nothing can equal the advantages of a
CUTLERY CANTEEN,
containing all the Knives, Forks, and Spoons that will be required by the young couple in
their private life, and while entertaining their many friends.
Three Canteens that warrant instant approval are described here, and we can with
every confidence supply them.
CANTEEN AS ILLUSTRATED.
(No. H 7897.)
The Case is of heavy Golden Oak, with Three Drawers and One Tray, all fitted to take
the articles separately. The Case is brass-mounted and has Patent Hinges and Dock.
The contents are as follows :
18 Dinner Knives "1 Knives are of the Finest Sheffield
18 Cheese Knives 1- Steel, through tang, and Handles
5-Piece Carving Set j are of the finest jfMrican Ivory.
18 Table Forks (Old English)
18 Dessert Forks (Old English)
12 Table Spoons (Old English)
18 Dessert Spoons (Old English)
18 Tea Spoons (Old English)
6 Egg Spoons (Old English)
1 Mustard Spoon (Old English)
4 Salt Spoons (Old English)
Sent PacKed and Carriage
1 Soup Ladle
2 Gravy Ladles
2 Sauce Spoons
Every piece is A 1 Quality,
Dixon’s Sheffield Silver-
plate on white nickel-silver.
Paid, £47 lOs.
CANTEEN No. H 7898,
With One Drawer and One Tray, otherwise as H 7897. The qualities and description are
exactly the same, but quantities are less, as follows
8 each Table and Cheese Knives 8 Tea Spoons
8 each Table and Dessert Spoons 3-Piece Carving Set
8 each Table and Dessert Forks
A'splendid set for six or eight people.
Price - - - - £2l.
CANTEEN No. G 3174,
Contains 12 each Table and Cheese Knives, 5-Piece Set of Carvers, 12 each Table and
Dessert Spoons, 12 each Table and Dessert Forks, 12 Tea-and 6 Egg Spoons, 4 Salt and
1 Mustard Spoon, a Sugar Tongs, Butter Knife, Soup Ladle, 2 Sauce Ladles, and 2 Gravy
Spoons. Quality and Case as No. H 7897.
Price - - -
£32 lOs.
m
m
m
m
m
112-Page ART CATALOGUE
on Request.
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd.
STRRNOCORRER, George ST.SYDNEY.
The Finest Collection of
Wedding Gifts in Sydney.


Mrs. Cashel Hoey, dead just on 80, though
enjoying liferary fame chiefly in England and
Ireland, drew her most solid means of living, for
nearly half a century, from Australia. Her Aus-
tralian work, however, was generally anonymous,
the Australasian being the only paper that from
time to time “ gave her away ” as the lady writer
of its London letter. For a time she wrote a
Paris letter to a Sydney daily, and a Dublin letter
to a Queensland journal. John Cashel Hoey, her
husband, an old Dublin Review man, was secre-
tary to the Vic. Agency-General in London. He
was a clever, flashy, biassed sort of man, and was
hardly a success even in a sky-rockety way.
Although the Commonwealth proclama-
tion; prohibiting the importation of cornsacks of
excessive size goes a long way towards the sup-
pression of the old iniquitous habit of putting too
much wheat in one bag, it unfortunately
doesn’t go far enough. For instance, it cannot
prevent the use of old bags and their subsequent
passage by rail in a state of murderousoverweight.
.Such interference lies in the vast, disordered
domain of State Frights, and, if S. Frights doesn’t
take steps or gelignite (presuming that it wants
to), it will be responsible for a considerable re-
appearance of the old inhuman business during
the next wheat season. According to a cor-
respondent to a Melbourne paper, ‘ heavy stocks
of second-hand ‘ old standard ’ bags and brushed
sugar bags ’ are already being accumulated, with
the obvious purpose of providing further trouble
for the wheat lumper in a few months time.
Wherefore, S. Frights had better take notice. So
far, it has done nothing, although its bawled
statements some time ago engendered an idea
that it would. What it ought to do is to order
its Railway Commissioners not to carry the wheat-
bag outrage. Then for once its actions would
square with its bawl.
Reuter, the cable-man, woke up the other
day and telegraphed from London a statement that
the deaths for the year in France had exceeded
the births by about 20,000. Seeing that the same
fact had been published in Australia weeks before,
this belated energy on the part of Renter was un-
accountable. It was also cabled “This is the first
instance of the deaths in any country exceeding
the births,’ which was silly bosh, and expensive
bosh to send over the wires. In 1895 and again in
1900 deaths exceeded births in France. Accord-
ing to the best available estimates there was a
period of 315 years (1066-1381) when the popu-
lation of England only increased by 210,000,
—an average of 666 per annum—so it is fairly cer-
tain there were many years in that period when
deaths exceeded births. Between 1381 and 1528,
the estimated population of Ireland decreased
from 1,100,000 to 770,000, so again deaths must
have exceeded births. And in the time of the
Black Death, the coffin was so far ahead of the
cradle that there arose a horrible fear that the
human race was going to give things up as a bad
job, and that the whale would come up the
Thames and look for London and not find it.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
For Big Yields.
m
m
THE “SUNSHINE” HARVESTER.
r
*
THE “ALBION” BINDER.
Write to any of the following-addresses for Handsome
New Illustrated Catalogue MlO (posted gratis) of
Harvesters, Binders, Mowers, Ha.v Bakes, Drills, Disc
Ploughs, Mouldboard Ploughs, Subsoilers, Disp Culti-
vators, Horseworks, Chaffcutters, Corncrushers,
Harrows, Gates, Trucks, Bag Loaders, etc.
SYDNEY: 42 Engine Street.
MELBOURNE: 102 Spencer Street.
ADELAIDE: 56 North Terrace.
PERTH, W.A. : SANDOVER & CO.
TOOWOOMBA, Q. : MOTT & BARLOW.
Sunshine Harvester
Works,
Head Office & Works : SUNSHINE.
H. V. McKAY,
P7lTl[l VY>C
CONJURING CARDS.
Complete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free ONE SHILLING (Postal Note).
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Vio.
Ms
airoufc
✓"'There is plenty of testimony
j that Trench's Remedy for Fits affords immediate
( relief and permanently cures epilepsy. The Rev.
1 A. R. Thompson, Portland, Vic. ; the Rev John
Glover, Spring Bluff, Qud. ; the Rev. P.J- Riddle,
Rakaia, N.Z., and many others will assure
enquirers of their personal knowledge of its effi-
cacy. The Union Manufacturing Co., 299 Eliza-
beth St., will send you a valuable jaamphlet free.
o Peerlesslbilef Preparations
unrivalled for the Completion,
SoFteninJ* & Beautifying theSkin.^
GOLD MEDAL. PARIS. 1900.
GRAND PRIX. STLOUIS.ItJOA
Made by
F. WOLFF & SOON,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R. H. The
Grand Duke
of Baden.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
StoreK^epers.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & COMelbourne & Sydney.
5
256 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
m
LYONS
HAS
REMOVED
to larger
premises at 256
Bourke St..where his
fine stock of Musical
Instrumnnts can be
shown to advantage. \
A Welcome awaits old and
new Customers.
YOUR NEED
is met in these Splendid VIOLIN OUTFITS.
ALL the VIOLINS, even in the very
Cheapest Set, are HAND-MADE, and of
Superior Quality: Good Case, Bow,
Extra Set of Strings, Bridge and
Instruction Book, FREE, with every
Set.
PRICES:
Student’s Set 21/-
Scholar’s Set 42/-
Conservatorium Set 63/
University Set £5 ss.
The Ideal Set Bs.
Send your address
for Best Musical
Instrument Catalog
in Melbourne.
mwwmwm
[Til »n
THE MEZON
ACCORDION.
The name is sufficient
guarantee that you are
getting the WORLD’S
BUST.
PRICES:
Organ Mezon 357-
Wonder Mezon 427-
Grand Organ
Mezon 63/-
Chromatic Mezon, 90/-
Musical Instruments Carefully Packed and Forwarded to any address.
m
IMikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seeasmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. J>. MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, mdnet.
Sample bottles and full particulars, by poet,
lB*4d. i stampsj to make 5 gallons spray.
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of al! Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
‘PLASMON
INCREASES THE FOOD
VALUE ENORMOUSLY»
Lancet. _ •
COCOA
?v
10 TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCON
DELICIOUS
digestible:
THE BALLET GIRL
m
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated lAets of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
T
=c
\\
W x
DON’T
TAKE DRUGS!
HY don’t you stop it ? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
» * you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors; you doh’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit £5OO to anyone proving
the contrary.
'is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
jlambago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Bailing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND TH/S COUPON
with your
name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
THE McLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAQH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R, CORCORAN OFFICE HOURS : 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name....
Address


Concerning the State’s dole to the
ancient: —
Maoriland has been giving old-age pensions since 1899.
By 1902 it was paying the dole to 41 out, of every 100
.people old enough and long enough resident to be
.entitled to it. But Arbitration and other labor laws have
evidently made things easier for the Maorilander ; hence
the proportion has steadily declined, until in the past
year it amounted to only 32 per cent.
When the Department sets to work systematically to
probe the ages of the ancients, it finds precious few who
have managed to climb up the ladder to 100. Pretty
well every township is supposed to have a centenarian or
two ; but when the Department asks for proof—not ab-
solute proof, but just enough to go onI—it 1 —it can very rarely
find any. Of the 12,912 European pensioners on the
books on March 31, only eight were 96 or over, and two
of them have since died. One claims to be 104, and
another 107 ; but in neither case is there any evidence of
age. The Department was satisfied that each of these
applicants was over 65; and it let it go at that. So it,
■ i«n’t sure that it has even one centenarian on thfe books.
The most ancient person who can be at all definite about
his birthday is able to show that he arrived on May 7,
1810 ; and that makes him 98.
The total cost in Maoriland runs nowadays to an annual
6s. lid. per head of the population. But there is a set-off
to that in the reduced cost of the public homes and hos-
pitals. Out-door relief alone has fallen from Is. 4jd. to
BJd. per head of population. And, anyway, even if there
were no old-age pensions, somebody would have to feed
and clothe the ancients—or let them starve and go naked.
Civilisation doesn’t take kindly to the idea of letting men
and women starve because they have got too old to battle
for themselves ; wherefore, as civilisation agrees that
somebody has to feed and clothe them, the State that
provides the money systematically through old-age
pensions isn’t that much .worse off. If the State takes
6s. lid. out of one pocket, it levels things up by letting
6s. lid. lie undisturbed in the other pocket.
The man who has an annuity or a pension is popularly
supposed to hang on to life with a certain amount of
sheer cussedness. But a maximum of 10s. a week evi-
dently isn’t enough to develop this alleged cussedness.
Of those who were on-the books only nine years ago but
one jn three now remains ; and in six years 50 per cent.
have gone where pensions are not wanted. On last year’s
record more die between 74 and 77 than at any other age ;
and only one in 56 reaches 90.
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
Agents —
Harrison <fc Attwood,
Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849- For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IPST - AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Hon. A. W. JVleeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.X. A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Ideal Winter Holiday Resort.
Hydro Majestic Med low Bath
AN ELECTRICALLY-LIGHTED AND STEAM-HEATED PALACE HOTEL
situated upon the most imposing outlook on the
BLUE MOUNTAINS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Now’s the Time for the Rest Cure and the full enjoyment of a quiet Holiday.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
} 29 Katoomba.
m
For Details apply —
City Office, 38 Castlereagh Street.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Krista
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
On the Trail of the Trust p ™ 3
jjpN S popular
-AT on-
RAZOR
Guaranteed a High Grade Razor.
FULLY HOLLOW GROUND.
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED.
always keeps
THE EDGE.
PC!
Finest Steel. Smooth Shaving.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle . .
7 in Caae, one for each day of the week.
TO BE OBTAINED OP
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney . n
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
m
O
PI
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant?
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
HEARNES cSSST 18
The Famous Remedy For
GOUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE.—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
m
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
G>6e LEADING
HOUSE »»«■
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS'.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our
<sr
COLLECTOR GUN.
m
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38Jin., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
40s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage.on one Gun—ls 9d, N.'S'.W.; 3s 2d, Interstate.
m
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
i.. / i
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boos. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beiuty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Cd. How ti
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for mineral i),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch'-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
HOME CVCLOPEDIR
UMBRA CING
THE POPULAR *• PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 18 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is ad nost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 1 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s lid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7k 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 lacest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar -
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The'Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing) Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
DelichtfulPipes
Thais what
<*l
GUARANTEE iNIt *
weans
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable From all Tobacconists
F reel
2-ft. High.
m
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
©R a BOY’S RIFLE
I i
The Life=sizad Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye-, and represented with flesh-coloure 1 body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will standalone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highlv
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in its action, and
cci” ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WST6H
eHftUV and PENDHNT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the monev t>/-, ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World —Imitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our: Premium List includes
Watches and (Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice ard Useful Pre-
sents —a complete illustrated list sent whh the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by ret---n
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
m
Boy’s Rif e.
Britisb=H«sfralasian
w*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, Written
and published by Australians in London.
Ppjf-fk POST FREE, £1 per year,
m i ivw "U« in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be hddressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics 'of importance rto
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series, IV,, V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. This Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
JDNS
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDCE-FAST
The Strongest Cun in the
World and the best Shooting
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.”
ASTHMA CURE
I GRIAOLTSIM CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIUMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Soid by all Chemists.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It ; s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for borne consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
t l I UTITCT
■VLuvnr
qCARBq
5?
3k
m
<o
m
90
m
£R6^
6?
m
mm
w\\
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP.
6d. per Tablet.
Hit BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. — A assful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with ct
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
r
MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE
COD-LIVER OIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption and
all Lung Complaints.
As a food and huilder-up for both children
and! adults, MQLLER’S OIL is unequalled « «
BECAUSE; It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE GOD-LIVER OIL.
A GUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS SAYS ABOUT MOLLER’S
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL .
Medical Review.-—“ We have no hesitation in saving it is quite unexcelled. It is
of a pale golden colour ; it is free from any trace of free acid ; it is easily assimilated,
and, what is most important, it dobs not cause eructations ok nausea.”
Medical Press.—“ Messrs. Peter Moller, Ltd., by the introduction of their
Hydroxyl-Free Cod-Liver Oil, have placed in the hands of medical men a most excel-
lent and valuable preparation which is almost free from taste, limpid in character,
and, what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable ‘ repeatings ’ we
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
MOLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the only Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To bo obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
L PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C. A
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. PacKet of 12
SPECIAL RATES TO ACENTS. lOd. „ IQ.
The Cowelyng Millennium.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For the prodigal days when the human race was using
up its accumulated capital—timber, coal, iron, tin, lead,
gold, silver, copper, mineral oil, natural gas, and so on —
with an utter disregard for consequences, will be quite
finished, and man will be living on his current earnings
again, the same as he did in the cave-dwelling times. ...
In future years, when the workers of the world are
dwelling in tents in the tropical or semi-tropical regions,
and burning cowdung....
Man will have got back to the simple, strenuous life,
and will go to bed early to save cowdung.— The Bulletin.
THE Strenuous Age gives o’er—
The gleesome Editor
Prophetic eyes in a fine frenzy
rolling,
Dreams of the coming dearth
Upon this bankrupt earth
Of noise and haste, and chopping wood, and
coaling.
He hath a Vision, sweet and fair,
Of simple souls who dwell in castles in the air.
Of old Bards used to sing
Man’s re-awakening
In Better Lands, when bright the Golden Age
With faery palaces,
Green lawns, seraphic seas,
And Love and Peace Life’s sorrows would
assuage.
Fauns, nymphs would dance with maid and man
To tabor’s sound, as when this greybeard world
began.
And some have made their dream
Of Science, Speed, and Steam.
They bind the Future with electric wires.
Despoil earth, sea, and sky
For more machinery
To build man all those things he ne’er requires.
The rushing Iron Age begins.
Man sweats, by Science, and he suffers for his sins.
Utopias rise apace
To greet the Coming Race.
Bard, Prophet, Artist, Scientist, and all
Proclaim they see the gleam
Of cities of their dream ;
The Coming Time will be Joy’s carnival;
Like froth their airy fabrics burst,
The Editor exults. He says he fears the worst.
This happy thought doth cheer
The lightning-striking Seer.
In ecstasy of jov this message stern
He shouts from pole to pole :
When Man has no more Coal
What will be left for shivering coves to burn ?
This is the Gospel and the Law,
Man can’t build fires sans coal; make bricks with-
out the straw.
Rash prodigals are we
Of Earth-stored energy;
We tap, unheeding, every reservoir.
But when this stock gives ,out
We’ll strike a fearsome drought,
Now Nature has retired from making more.
No tree, no coke, no beer, no meat!
Sweet, empty lazy days our startled senses greet.
There’ll be no foundry’s flare,
No smoke-stacks in the air,
Nor bank, nor church, nor pawn, nor silk
sock store,
The auctioneer will cease.
: The bailiff live in peace,
And lawyers stop from talking ever more.
A-picnicking we’ll pitch our tent
At Manly, loaf like gods, careless of sordid rent.
Skyscrapers will fall down.
We’ll walk each morn to town,
We’ll miss no tram or boat, nor dread we’re
late.
Coalless till crack o’ doom
We’ll dwell in gladsome gloom,
Nor careful housewives have to clean the grate.
There’ll be no Abgus in. those days ;
Wood pulp for paper’s scarce, the joyful prophet
says.
The Northern lands grow cold.
We’ll plant this Age of Gold
Beside a tropic shore, a tropic sea.
We’ll snare the sparks that pass,
We’ll count each blade of grass,
And learn to practise strict economy.
We’ll think no more of needless strife ;
We’ll grow more hair, and advocate the Simple
Life.
This Golden Age draws near—
Inspired, the Bacchic Seer
Shouts his gay message pole to thankful pole.
We’ll live like calm cave men
In that gay epoch, when
We’ve squandered our Last Shovelful of Coal.
Burn, friends, more coal, that quickly it may
come,
The new Philosophy’s Cowdung Millennium !
VIC.
GANESHA.
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE STRONG MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHILE General Manager Rodney was
busy over other matters, a strike
started on Pounama wharf, the sea-
port of the section of that name, in which Strong
Man Winter was District Traffic Manager. The
trouble spread, owing to his uncompromising
attitude, and Rodney started immediately for the
scene, only to find traffic on all the Pounama lines
was suspended. So Manager Winter got a free
hand and used it ruthlessly, with the result that
in five days the strike was crushed. And all the
time the conflict raged General Manager Rodney
was cooped up in Romahapa. When he got through
the disturbance was over, the men were
back at work, and trains were running
as though never a cloud had been in the sky. So
General Manager Rodney went straight down to
the wharf, and got on board the s.s. Takapuna on
his way home.
At the wharf where the steamer was lying a
great conflict had taken place between the
strikers and the “ loyalists,” and the porter who
carried Rodney’s luggage drew his patron’s atten-
tion to a dark stain on the planking.
“ Tis the blood of Peter McCroary, what was
killed tacklin’ the trucks. It’ll teach his sort to
respect the law, Mister, I think.”
The porter had made on an average about 7s. 6d.
per day with that gag since the strike collapsed,
but this time it didn’t come off. Rodney merely
shuddered, and remarked that the stain should
have been planed out. But the porter assured
him all the planes in Pounama could not remove
the blot of human gore. “ It’s right through the
plank,” he said solemnly.
“ Rubbish ! ” said General Manager Rodney.
Dinner was served as the steamer started, and
the company discussed the strike. It was a very
unanimous discussion till a clean-shaven, burly
young man opposite Rodney suddenly took up the
cudgels for the men with great energy. The
company stared at him in astonishment. But he
was irreproachable. He wore the knickerbocker
suit that was the outward brand of the squatting
caste; his politeness was almost painful,
and his knowledge of the history of the
trouble was phenomenal. Rodney became in-
terested. He was glad to hear all that
could be said on behalf of the strikers, for he
knew he would hear all and more than could be
fairly urged against them. A plethoric old gentle-
man who had started the discussion, looked the
young man up and down, and then said crush-
ingly :
“Well, young sir, you look like a gentleman,
your language and manners indicate education
and good upbringing, but I cannot understand
any gentleman ” (he dwelt on the word decisively)
“supporting revolt, sheer rebellion, of men
against their masters. It’s damnable, damnable,
sir, and shows what the world is coming to.”
Then a storm raged, and the burly young man
held the fort against a multitude of beefy Conser-
vatives, and Rodney, deafened and stunned,
caught scraps here and there. And these
scraps mostly ooneerned Winter’s strike-breaking
methods, and set Rodney wondering how many
more bloodstains there were in Pounama as well
as the one Peter McCroary, deceased, had left on
the wharf. Somewhere amid the clamor he
gathered that the young man who was holding
the fort was one of his own subordinates, and his
name was Jones.
* » * *
“ won a magnificent victory, and I hope Par-
liament will make him a grant in recognition of
his courage and firmness,” said a pompous old
gentleman. “I’m a member of the Legislative
Council, and shall move in the matter immediately
the House sits. ”
“He has won no magnificent victory. He cer-
tainly has prepared the way for revolution. You
forget that Grey got one-man-one-vote last session,
and the man who is to-day underneath, with a
broken head, will be top-dog in Parliament next
election.”
“ Never, never ! There’d be a revolution ! ” said
the Legislative Councillor.
“With you on the barricades!” laughed the
young man. “ Pretty revolutionary you’d make.”
“ I fail to see what that has to do with the
strike, sir ! ” said Rodney.
“Nothing to do with the strike, sir; but a lot
to do with Winter. There’ll be either a Labor
Government or one with strong Labor sympathies,
and very prone to stir the whole matter up again.
Remember, there are two dead strikers, butchered
to prove Billy Winter a strong man. I saw them
carrying home the dead body of one of them,
named McCroary. His little son, in his shirt and
patched knickerbockers, barefooted and unkempt,
watched the procession gloomily, wondering why
they were carrying his father. Poor little kid,
I wonder what’ll become of him ! ”
“ That’s very horrible,” said Mr. Rodney.
“It is,” continued the young man. “And do
you think they’ll forget it in their day of power ?
I don’t. And when old man Rodney, that’s the
General Manager, finds himself in a corner over the
business, he’ll ‘crayfish’ out of it by sacking
Billy Winter. And serve him right,” he snorted,
his politeness suddenly going to pieces. “I feel
inclined to put a bullet through the fellow
whenever I think of that ragged, wondering little
boy.”
And then he fell on his dinner, gulped it down,
and went upstairs.
“ Who is the larrikin ? ” inquired the M.L.C.
When Manager Rodney’s secretary, on the
strength of the boss’s absence, strolled, or rather
swam, into the office half an hour late next morn-
ing, he was staggered to find the potentate chafing
at his late arrival.
“ Has Mr. Jones reported himself yet?” Rodney
inquired after making a few remarks on the
advantages and beauties of punctuality.
“No, sir; no one that name called to my know-
ledge. I will ascertain if he left a card this
morning,”
“ Card be hanged. He’s taking your place. By
the way, where would you like me to send you ? ”
The staggered secretary collapsed into a chair.
“Have I not given you satisfaction, sir?” he
inquired in a husky voice, his mind running back
over the two years’ slavery he had put in with the
autocrat,
“Yes, yes, my boy—but hang it, you’re not a
genius, and I half suspect this fellow is. He’s
got initiative. I’ve never had a genius for a
secretary yet, and the opportunity is too good to
be missed. Now, you’ve had a strenuous time,
for I know I’m a hard man to work for ; so just
pick out a nice easy billet where you’d most like
to be, and I’ll fix it up.”
And so saying he retired behind the screen and
sat down before the fire to read Strong Man
Winter’s report on the strike.
The secretary sat dazed. He had a feeling that
he had fallen. There was resentment in his
mind. Just dumb sorrow. Your bureaucrat is a
curious animal. The General Manager had given ;
the General Manager had taken away. Blessed be
the name of the General Manager.
(Continued on next page.)


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
I ‘Every Picture
tells a Story.**
irm
Hiu
IFF
\
The Way to be Well is to
Keep the Kidneys Well*
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And little wonder.
A woman’s work and care and worry are enough to break down a much
stronger constitution than is given to most women—or men either for the
matter of that. The kidneys are invariably the first to feel the strain. And
they let their needs be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for
help. The cry of the sick kidneys.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys; they are made specially to act on the kidneys. Doan’s
Pills cure every ill of the kidneys and bladder, from common backache to
dangerous diabetes, dropsy, Bright’s disease. Bead the following testimony:—
The
Genuine
DOAN'S
effected
these
Lasting
Cures—
“A Word
to the
Wise is
Enough*"
SYDNEY WOMEN CURED,
LEICHHARDT*
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says:—“l can strongly recom-
mend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for curing
pains in the small of the back. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it was difficult
to move about at all. I blame sitting too close at
work for causing the trouble. The pills effected a
permanent cure, for there is no sign of the ail-
ment now.”
Mrs. Lawson makes a second statement four
years later : “The above is quite true, and time
has proved that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
not only cure, but cure permanently. There
would be less suffering in the world if people only
knew the value of this remedy.”
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Commonwealth Street,
Sydney, says:—“ I used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for aches and pains, in the limbs, which I
fancied were caused by kidney trouble. The pains
had troubled me for years, defying all treatment.
I found it very difficult to get up and down stairs,
and fits of giddiness which often came over
me made it more distressing. Sometimes I
would be laid up. Soon after I started using
Doan’s Pills relief came, and when I had taken
six boxes the aches and pains and giddiness had
disappeared.”
Three years later, when asked about her cure,
Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes, I am still quite well;
none of the distressing symptoms mentioned above
have ever returned.”
HUNTER STREET*
Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hunter Street, Sydney, says :
—“For three years I suffered with kidney de-
rangement. The worst symptom was a constant
backache, which got worse whenever I stooped.
I tried many remedies for this complaint, but got
no ease. I am glad to say that I got a cure at
last. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me.
They are splendid pills, and have made a great
difference in my health.”
Eight years later, Mrs. Mullins says:—“The
above statement is true, every word, and
I can now add the important fact that my
cure has lasted. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills deserve praise, and I will always recom-
mend them.”
Get
Doan's
Backache
Kidney Pills.
Price 2/9
a box
(6 boxes 15/3)
Foster-
McClellan Go.,
7 6 Pitt Street,
Sydney*
He was roused from his stupor by a loud bang
on the door, which immediately flew open and
admitted a clean-shaven, burly young man in a
knickerbocker suit.
“My name is Jones—-late of Romahapa. To
report myself to the General Manager ? Is the
old boy about the premises? By gosh ! you have
beastly weather here.”
The fainting clerk waved him to a chair with
all the authority he still retained. Then he crept
behind the screen, and spoke to the back of Rod-
ney’s head.
“Mr. .Topes is here now, sir.”
“ Show him in, please,” said Rodney, without
turning.
“The General Manager will see you, Mr.
Jones. Please step this way ! ”
“ Righto ! I say, aren’t you well ?” he inquired
sympathetically, as he stepped past the table.
The secretary made no reply ; he merely lifted his
eyes up, and made as though patting something
with his hands. Then Jones stepped behind the
screen into the sacred recess. The man before
the fire looked slowly round. Jones stepped
back and exclaimed :
“ Well, I’m jiggered ! ”
The secretary clutched his chair, wondering if
Jones had gone suddenly mad; and while he
swayed indecisively, wondering what he ought to
do, or if he ought to do anything, the voice of
Rodney mentioned coldly that he was not in the
least surprised at Jones feeling like that. And
then Jones pulled himself together and whis-
pered :
“ Come on duty, sir ! ”
“Mr. Jones!”
“ Yes, sir! ”
“ I have read your report on Winter’s account
of the strike. It is a great deal too much like the
language you used at the dinner-table on the
Takapuna, but further inquiries have verified it.
It seems tq have been quite a needless trouble,
and I am afraid Winter has been playing to
the gallery. Write him and hint that I
hope he will be more tactful in future.
Be sure an 4 mark the letter ‘Private,’ you know.
We must appear to back him up.”
“ I will ! ” and the new secretary returned to
his table, where he seized a letter form and broke
loose. Rodney was gone before he finished, so
his effort went along unedited and unabridged.
Down at Pounama Winter had waited weary
days for that letter. When it arrived the follow-
ing evening he was just leaving his office to
attend a banquet tendered him by the Chamber
of Commerce. His secretary, seeing that
the communication was from head office and
marked for the Chief only, ran downstairs and
caught him just as the cab was driving off. At
the hall of revelry the committee took Winter in
hand at once, and suggested a sherry and bitters
to fill in time till the dinner was ready. Winter,
a short, thick-set man of 54, with steel grey eyes
and a round bullet head on which the hair was
thin and grey, drew out the letter and excused him-
self for a moment. He explained that it was from
the General Manager and that he would read it
tq them later on, as it was the first he had received
since forwarding his report on the recent trouble.
One of the committee looked up, and saw the
railway man’s eyes glued to the paper in his hand.
His sherry stood untouched, his face was white
and drawn, and his whole appearance was that
of a man who had been struck in the dining
department with a sledge hammer. For, as said
before, your bureaucrat is a curious animal, and
the tone of that letter had taken 10 years off
Winter’s life. The chairman saw something was
wrong. He waved the committee out:
“Nothing wrong, I hope, Mr. Winter?”
The District Traffic Manager lifted a haggard
face. He tried to speak, but choked, and then
convulsively pushed the letter into the chairman’s
hand. The chairman read it:
Head Office, 18—
To the District Traffic Manager,
Pounama.
Sir, — In re your report on the late strike.
The General Manager instructs me to acknowledge
the receipt of the report and the portfolio of news-
paper cuttings relating to the same. The G.M. has
carefully read the papers, which struck him as being
unduly voluminous, and earefullj 7 compared your
account with that of his own special officer, who was
on the spot right through the trouble. He is not
satisfied that the Traffic Manager acted in the best
interests of discipline and the service : from his own
account, he appears to have been deficient in tact,
and to have courted a conflict for the purpose of
demonstrating the possession of a backbone. In fact
the General Manager is so dissatisfied with the
Traffic Manager’s actions all through the piece, and
previous to the outbreak of trouble, that he will hold
an exhaustive inquiry into the whole matter, on a
date to be fixed. The widow of the man McCroary
will continue to receive the fortnightly wages of
her late husband till the General Manager
has gone into the matter. You are also
instructed to subject the whole of the men
taken on for the purpose of breaking the strike
to the service tests at the earliest possible moment.
The examinations are to be rigid, as these men, hav-
ing served their purpose, should be got rid of as expe-
ditiously as possible, to remove from the minds of the
general staff the irritation aroused by this unfortu-
nate and, in the view of the General Manager, wholly
unnecessary affair. You are instructed to give old
hands every preference in future appointments, and
to render a full return of the names and addresses of
all those not yet taken back. Please note and
acknowledge. Yours faithfully,
H. L. JONES, Secretary.
“What does it mean ?” asked the President.
“Reduction or resignation,” said the crushed
officer.
“ Well, it’s a darned shame. He will find the
public will not stand it,” the President snorted,
bursting into sudden fury.
“The public will know nothing about it, unless
I resign; and I can’t afford to do that, unfor-
tunately. Probably he will never give any
decision, never make any further remark; but
simply transfer me to a smaller and worse paid
section.”
“And can’t you refuse to go? Why, it’s
infernal tyranny. Appeal to Parliament. We’ll
champion you.”
“That would be a breach of discipline, and
mean instant dismissal. This man has as much
power in his department as you have in your firm,
and he will use it to suit his own book. What
his book is I cannot understand, but I am afraid
that the newspapers have given me too much
praise.”
“ H’m ! Yes, perhaps,” said the chairman,
dubiously.
And all through the long evening Winter sat
dejectedly, catching scraps of praise. Among the
post-prandial speakers was one who rejoiced that
Mr. Winter had taught the working man who was
master. He could think of no tyranny worse than
that of the working man, the beggar on horse-
back. And Winter looked up at him with weary
eyes and wondered if he had ever felt the heavy
hand of an irresponsible autocrat like Rodney.
* * * ■*
The following wee- the papers announced that
the General Manager of Maoriland Railways,
Mr. P. J. Rodney, was in Pounama, inquiring
into the recent strike ; and expressed a hope that
his investigations would lead to the prohibition of
unionism among public servants. They also made
some remarks to the effect that as long as the ser-
vice had officers like their own esteemed District
Manager it need not worry overmuch about
unionism.
A few months later they announced that Mr.
Winter, the aforementioned well-known and
popular manager, was to be transferred to Ru-
taniwha section, which served the richest district
in all Maoriland. They never mentioned, if they
ever knew, that its railway was a small, un-
important affair compared to that of Pounama,
and represented a reduction of £l5O per annum in
salary. And twelve months later, when autocrat
Rodney gave Winter some straight but friendly
advice on the wisdom of resigning in preference
to being dispensed with, not one of the papers spilt
a drop of ink in his defence.
* * * *
“Mr. Jones,” said Winter to the new Traffic
Manager who took over the section from him,
“yours was the signature to the letter that told me
my handling of Pounama strike was not to Rod-
ney’s liking. As a kindness to an old officer fallen
on evil days, will you be good enough to tell me in
confidence why things have consistently gone
against me ever since ? ”
Jones shifted his cigar to the other side of his
face and waved a cadet who was hovering round
from the room.
“Certainly!” he replied. “First, he con-
sidered that you provoked the strike by bad
management. Which you did. Second, you
were glad to have it on just to show what
a backbone you had, and two deaths, several
men permanently injured, an embittered feeling
right through the service, the possibility
of a general strike, the loss of £70,000
revenue, and a few other unpleasantnesses were too
much to pay to prove that you had a backbone.
Which was also true. Then, again, was the
Question of policy. Rodney is a far-seeing man.
The old order was changing, and he saw that with
one-man-one-vote a Labor Government was hover-
ing on the horizon. Well, billets at £3OOO per
annum are not to be picked up every day when a
man is 56 or thereabouts. So he had to crayfish
out of the discredit of that strike somehow. And
this is the only way. The new Government will
be here next month for sure, just as soon as the
elections are over—and you won’t be here. And
Rodney can tell the new Minister for Railways
that it is owing to his abhorrence of your conduct
in that affair that you are absent. Which will be
good for Rodney.”
“ Well, I think very little of Mr. Rodney for it.”
“Rodney’s troubles! The new Minister will
think a lot of him, and his opinion is worth
having. Two things my mother taught me in
early youth were never to leave the red ball over
the pocket, and always to make friends in prefer-
ence to enemies. When a man has enough
enemies it is only a question of time till they get
him down. Twelve months ago there were 5*0,000
unionists in Maoriland, and you deliberately made
an enemy of every one of them. Where are you
to-day?”
Jones put his cigar back into the right side of
his face and looked at Winter. But Winter said
nothing. He merely picked up his handbag and
went out into the world to start life again at the
age of 55.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Far and Wide.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
/’LL call you to the beaches,
And you shall bide with me,
Along the river reaches
And by the open sea.
Far and wide I have to wander ;
Far and wide, and to and fro,
’Cross the seas, and o’er and under—
Everywhere the Rovers go.
Rolling stones no mosses gather,
Doth the cautious critic moan ;
In my heart I know I’d rather
Be a restless, rolling stone.
When I feel the soul-relieving
Comfort of the cradling sea ;
When, the giant hills upheaving, • r
Into God’s blue sky I flee ;
When the brown plains spread before me
And I slacken out the rein,
With a noon sun beaming o’er me.
Then I know my loss is—gain !
Let me watch the sea rain falling,
Smell the salt, deck-driven spray !
Let me hear the bush birds calling
At the dawning of the day !
Let me see the sun-bars streaming
Down the valleys, ere the night
Fills the world with pleasant dreaming,
Love and coolness and delight !
Gipsy, come ! the curving beaches
Hold their arms to you and me !
Gipsy, come, the water reaches
Call us to them liquidly.
E’er the forests, tall and splendid,
Lure me with their light and shade,
And the rolling downs unended.
Like a bridal carpet laid.
In the North green palm-glades keep theii
Vigils neath a cloudless moon ; *
Glutted pigeons safely sleep there,
Freely filled with fruited boon.
In the South a cold wind blowing
Sways the high limbs to and fro;
And the magpie homeward going
Carols of the coming snow.
Dancing brolga, swan and plover,
Snipe and spurwing-—Ah, my soul,
Who would fear to be a Rover ?
Let the stones for ever roll !
Gipsy, come ! The wide Bush waits us t
Gipsy come, the wide Seas call,
Near and far our World awaits us,
We are wild-hearts after all.
Far and wide we twain will wander,
All the world, the world to know;
’Cross the lands and seas and under—
By the roads the Rovers go.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.


m
m
m
Mr. J. Williams, of Northern Sta-
tion, N. E. Port Augusta, sends his
photo and writes that, he has been a
sufferer from impure blood and indi-
gestion, with pimples on his face, and
blackheads. He was always taking
medicines of some kind, with no re-
lief until he began with Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla and Ayer’s Pills. He took
in all three bottles of the Sarsaparilla
"and two bottles of the Pills, with the
result that the pimples and black-
heads disappeared and he was relieved
entirely of his indigestion.
AYER’S s arsaparilta
acts directly upon the blood-forming glands of the body, stimulating them to
produce healthy, rich, red blood ; the kind of blood that brings a good whole-
some color to the lips and cheeks, clearing away pimples and blackheads.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure that you get “AYER’S,” not some worthless imitation.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
FREE
CARDEN SEEDS
NO
MONEY
WANTED
Tn order to introduce our HIGH-GR ADE TESTED SEEDS
A into every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc , FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All vou have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc. : Sell the packets at 3d.
per packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand iist.
WE TRUST YOU-THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
W/
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0,52 BOND ST SYDNEY, N.S.W. g
m
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cares the fame
diseases " ithout
inconvenient :e
in
48 hour?
m
Each Capsule bears the name
pr-
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i /1 J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
m
WEARME & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire=Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn nse since 159fi
MM
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the bo >k is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambetli Load, Loudon, Eng.
PATERNOSTER’S
snn PILLS ■■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ali pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
/it
IKfCS
COLO RED. fl tl^'SS e £l
and Aft 1 POST CARDS.
U—1•)
§ COOP LUCK fr|
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of j ewellery which we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASPID MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
postcards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
every case positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
REGAL POST CARD C?, 126 O'CONNELL ST,S> ONE.Y.
A MERRY-MINDED MAN
shows his temperament in his face. His eyes are laughing eyes.
His outlook is joyous and attractive. He is optimistic to a-degree,
and you may be sure his body is attuned to his mind. No dyspeptic
he. No biliousness in his composition. No dizzy headaches in his
experience; and depend upon it he is a wise man as well as a
merry man, and
IS MADE AND KEPT SO
by the regular use of Beecham's Pills. For it is now a generally
accepted fact that as a preventive and curative medicine these pills
are absolutely reliable in their results, and there are few troubles
arising from disorders of the stomach, liver, bowels or kidneys that
they will not speedily cure. The ultimate result is the healthy
magnetic personality of the happy man or woman. You are certain
to carry a light heart if you feel really well, and this you
may always do
BY USING
BE EC HA M’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///A- (56 p’l s) <£* 2/9(168 pills).
§,UCL-
ffING.S :
The Bulletin
?
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OK TEN. “ The Heathen
in hie Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists —B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
MeCrae, and “Splash.”
forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
HIU George Street , Sydney.
A Bearing on each side of the
Windwheel is absolutely necessary
if you require a large, powerful, easy-running
Windmill; and, in addition, because it pre-
vents excessive wear on the bearings.
The windmill-maker who tells you that two
bearings are unnecessary illustrates the story
of the “Fox and the Grapes” over again, as
the design of the
“ Steel Wings ” Windmill,
a windwheel, supported by a bearing on each
side, revolving inside a tower, is protected by
Letters Patent.
Write to the Makers—
Stee! Wings Windmill Co., Ltd.,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY,
asking Dept. C to furnish you with particulars.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. .. .. .. ..£3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hannnerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. ..£1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. ..£5150
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . ..£0 13 9
All the above guns are complete With Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
men
a IV O
men
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely' different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
To all persons suffering: from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments”
on receipt of this adversisement. fgF* /Vote Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elm ley House,”
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Sportsmen’s Shoes.
m
Rubber-soled shoes are the ideal
footwear for sportsmen. They
give the best wear, the most
comfort, and are really indis-
pensable in most games. Here
are a few selections from our
extensive stock :
Welt n l W)ef! i o”s eS iAV Vhit a ? an : aS ’ , with i-' noh red
brownVa? is/efnk ft? 15 ~ in
niade bke a sandal to
i • ®' the ordinar y boots, very convenient with
i-mch best red rubber soles, 10/- ’
S, KK an , be re ' soled wi th a special
thick!*7/G? d bber i ' lnCl thick ’ 6/9 ; S-i»cb
a Jfw alS ° Sto< k k fch l famous Champion, Yachting
for fuUpSulars f rubbe, " soled shoes - Ask
perdriau rubber CO., ltd.,
“ The House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
it
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
*
Q
Tr 1 ?L a A° V 'n < ; Ut inus t™tes the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarnes. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUB/C FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART-Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
S 0^ ENTSi W. &J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64. PITT ST., SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORICINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADu
°I G /\i
o)Sz
oaiata
©3'N
Va
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole
Importers:
James Hardie & Do.,
m
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES —IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
Jiisf Whcif fte Doctor Qstdosisd
The
Family Stimulant
The Beverage that
Benefits.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
NO MORE HOT BEARINGS =*
Send for particulars to- CA R|QII3 IS U SGCI
t S ' NCLA,R ’ Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, and A.M.P. Buddings, Brisbane.
PARkh & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
AH Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles.”
m
The PICKERING (Registered) GOVERNOR
Suitable for all classes of STATIONARY and PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES
including ENGINES for ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
supplied sile, for New Engines,
Governor working successfnllv In run into a considerable number of hundreds. We have the Pickering
expressly for us by the PICKERING GOVERNOE^COMPANY^Tl 18 industry. The Governor is manufactured
registered by us, and we sell COMPANY. The words “Pickering Governor” have been
ORIGINAL PICKERING GOVERNOR not aC ~ e f * l6 I ® kerin |f Governor Company, that is to say, we sell the
SOLEtAGENTS for N.S.W.—
74
ar B® StocKs of all Styles always carr **..
Engineers and
0 Machinery Merchants,
CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
M M • Large StocKs of al
H. P. GREGORY & CO..
'
■
A-
TANKS IN CONSTRUCTION AT WASH!
B*M AGITATING TANK
(Patented)
Effects a Large Saving 1 in Cyanidation
of Concentrates and Slimes.
Simple to Operate. Never Goes Wrong.
Requires No Repairs.
Licenses granted by tlie Sole Ag'euts for Australia,
N
LTD.,
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
'
Mi
HiC.’s
«««
•»-
:■*s?:■
STARTING THE AGITATOR.
