

A Word to the Wise is sufficient
••••*; . • •*' : x ' ; . . • ■ \--- W . V ! :• ; . l
■
99
#
R. 6. WATKINS & GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
FOK—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
S&kiw.
jufrfjU.
For Mining, Milling,
Pastoral and Agricultural
Machinery.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n„s.w.
... AND ...
128 William St., Melbourne, vie.
ECOBAEtT
;i*jw——
!r r “
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
ĥ
Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTONS
Fine-Apple Brand
ħ
CHUBB'S NEW 8008 LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
Sheer Patriotism Pleads.
ASK FOR.
SWEETS,
PLEASE!
Fresh Made Here.
all, u) a/JdeAH /frfcu/Cu u ik&t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
PEES AN TYRES are Cood Tyres!
The Silvertown Rubber Company, 279 George Street, Sydney.
“LYSAGHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYOKTaEnr.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
h
ĥ
4
is the Queen of &H Cocoas
FOF^
l Arom^StrengtK^Purity:
ONLY
ROOFINu
WITH
PATENT
FIRE
JOINT
VlaMvoid
WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER, THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
THE
ONLY
DAMPCOURSE
WITH
PATENT
FIRE
JOINT.
ir-
44
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND EOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-MaKing Machinery.
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.— N0. 1493. ]
[Thursday, September 24, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Some New and Recent Books including those Reviewed on this Page.
Wright, Hevea Brasiliensis or Para Rubber, its Botany,
Cultivation, Chemistry and Diseases, 3rd edition, 18s,
postage Is.
Dawson, The Accountant’s Compendium, 3rd edition,
enlarged and revised, .80s, postage Is 6d.
Johnston, Sir Harry, George Grenfell and the Congo,
2 vols., fully illustrated, 30s, postage 3s.
Viebig, Absolution, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Boxall, Hist, of the Australian Bushrangers, 6s, post 6d.
Art of Decorating Show Windows and Interiors, over 400
pages, fully illustrated, size 11 x 8 in., cloth 18s,
postage Is 3d.
Prof. Starr Jordan and Kellogg, Evolution and Animal
Life, 12s 6d, post Is.
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF BOILER CONSTRUCTION, by W. D. CRUICKSHANK, M.I.M.E.
Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged, cloth, illustrated, 15s, postage 9d.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is iiseDtic"
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.
ħ
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Bold by all OB.mlrt., pm* <«• »" ™»
„ UDS .»,
Agencies in all the Australian
THE RED PAGE
Poems by A. E. Housman
Along the field as we came by
A year ago, my love and I,
The aspen over stile and stone
Was talking to itself alone.
“ Oh, who are these that kiss and pass?
A country lover and his lass ;
Two lovers looking to be wed ;
And time shall put them both to bed,
And she shall lie with earth above,
And he beside another love.”
And sure enough beneath the tree
There walks another love with me ;
And overhead the aspen heaves
Its rainy-sounding silver leaves ;
And I spell nothing in their stir,
But now perhaps they speak to her,
And plain for her to understand,
They talk about a time at hand
When I shall sleep with clover clad,
And she beside another lad.
. I
On moonlit heath and lonesome bank
The sheep beside me graze ;
And yon the gallows used to clank
Fast by the four cross ways.
A careless shepherd once would keep
The flocks by moonlight there,
And high among the glimmering sheep
The dead man stood on air.
They hang us now in Shrewsbury jail:
' The whistles blow forlorn,
And trains all night groan on the rail
To men that die at morn.
There sleeps in Shrewsbury jail to-night,
Or wakes, as may betide,
A better lad, if things went right;
Than most that sleep outside.
And naked to the hangman’s noose
The morning clocks will ring
A neck God made for other use
Than strangling in a string.
And sharp the link of life will snap,
And dead on air will stand
Heels that held up as straight a chap
As treads upon the land.
So here I’ll watch the night and wait
To see the morning shine,
When he will hear the stroke of eight
And not the stroke of nine ;
And wish my friend as sound a sleep
As lads’ I did not know.
That shepherded the moonlit sheep
A hundred years ago.
TO AN ATHLETE DYING YOUNG.
The time you won your town the race
We chaired you through the market-place ;
Man and boy stood cheering by,
And home we brought you shoulder-high.
To-day, the road all runners come,
Shoulder-high we bring you home,
And set you at your threshold down,
Townsman of a stiller town.
Smart lad, to slip betimes away
From fields where glory does not stay,
And early though the laurel grows
It withers quicker than the rose.
Eyes the shady night has shut
Cannot see the record cut.
And silence sounds no worse than cheers
After earth has stopped the ears ;
Now you will not swell the rout
Of lads that wore their honors out,
Runners whom renown outran,
And the name died before the man.
So set, before its echoes fade,
The fleet foot on the sill of shade,
And hold to the low lintel up
The still defended challenge-cup.
And round that early-laurelled head
Will flock to gaze the strengthless dead,
And find unwithered on its curls
The garland briefer than a girl’s.
THE IMMORTAL PART.
When I meet the morning beam,
Or lay me down at night to dream,
I hear my bones within me say,
“ Another night, another day.
“When shall this slough of sense be cast,
This dust of thoughts be laid at last,
The man of flesh and soul be slain
And the man of bone remain ?
“This tongue that talks, these lungs that shout,
These thews that hustle me about,
This brain that fills the skull with schemes,
And its humming hive of dreams —
“ These to-day are proud in power
And lord it in their little hour ;
The immortal bones obey control
Of dying flesh and dying soul.
“ ’Tis long till eve and morn are gone;
Slow the endless night comes on,
And late to fulness grows the birth
That shall last as long as earth.
“Wanderers eastward, wanderers west,
Know you why you cannot rest ?
’Tis that every mother’s son
Travails with a skeleton.
“ Lie down in the bed of dust;
Bear the fruit that bear you must:
Bring the eternal seed to light,
And morn is all the same as night.
“Rest you so from trouble sore,
Fear the heat o’ the sun no more,
Nor the snowing winter wild ;
Now you labor not with child.
“Empty vessel, garment cast ;
We that wore you long shall last.
—Another night, another day.’’
So my bones within me say.
Therefore they shall do my will
To-day while I am master still,
And flesh and soul, now both are strong,
Shall hale the sullen slaves along,
Before this fire of sense decay.
This smoke of thought blow clean away,
And leave with ancient night alone
The steadfast and enduring bone.
[From “ A Shropshire Lad,” by A. E. Housman,
Grant Richards, 7th edition.]
May Sinclair.
DOWN the primrose path of popu-
larity May Sinclair is moving
with a rapid ease. Her earlier
work, The Divine Fire , seemed ringingly
to herald the advent of a new modern
novelist; but her succeeding novel, The
Helpmate, was slighter in form, less uni-
versal in content, more labored in crafts-
manship. Its popular success doubtless
justified, it to the author ; and now we
have a further descent, Kitty Tail-lew,
(Constable). Yet, even with Kitty’s
problem, May Sinclair has not drifted
far upon the road of popularity. , Hand
in hand, Caine and Corelli, keep their
triumphant march ahead. For May Sin-
clair, given now to the breaking of butter-
flies upon the wheel, shatters them with a
nice art, even with sympathetic charm.
She works out conscientiously the ancient
problem of the lady of the half-world who
conceives a real passion. One has his
suspicions about Kitty from the first.
She swims into the public dining-room of
the hotel at the right masculine moment
and drops her furs at the right masculine
feet, and when she gracefully sits she
manages to show seven inches of very
charming stocking to the right masculine
gaze.
Her docile companion had, in the
dawn of their acquaintance, prayed that
Mrs. Tailleur might not elect to sit next
anybody who was not nice.
Latterly, she had found herself hoping
that their place might not be in view of any-
body who was ....
“ What do you bet," said Kitty, “ that I
don’t make that long man there come and
talk to me?”
The odds were, in cases like these,
always on Kitty. For :
There was something deliberate and per-
petual in Kitty’s challenge of the public
eye. The public eye, so far from pursuing
Kitty, was itself pursued, tracked down, and
captured.
When, at last, Kitty falls in love with a
quite eligible man, the Consequences of
Kitty’s Past arise and cheerfully smite
her. One of the Consequences, a Conse-
quence in trousers, stays for a little pri-
vate dinner with Kitty. He is not
exactly welcomed —though he is responsi-
ble for her income; and the struggle
between this Consequence and the eligi-
ble Probability is the excuse for the book.
The situation is deftly pourtrayed, aptly
wrought out, though its solution is more
dramatic than probable. The book will
be popular, which is, perhaps, the un-
kindest thing that could be said of so
fine a writer as May Sinclair.
As for its style, it is noteworthy as
perhaps the best “ Henry James ” up to
date. The technique of Henry James is
an insidious temptation to all modern
novelists. His method of dialogue is to
be found in the most unexpected places ;
one after the other, the modern English
novelists have acquired him. It is an
influence entirely for good. Henry J ames
brings to dialogue a subtlety of tech-
nique that expresses our new subtlety of
thought, and gives promise of getting rid
for ever of the banal “He said,” and
the superfluous “ She remarked.” Indeed,
it seems likely that for posterity Henry
James will count more as a founder of a
school, of dialogue than as a novelist. He
has found in the language a new intel-
lectual color; he has made of English a
language as femininely sensitive as
French. As for his novels—but this
article started out to deal with May
Sinclair, and Henry is not to be dragged
in clinging to her skirt. For she is
really clutching his coat-tails.
The Bulletin Poets: 4.
Hugh Raymond McCrae. Born in Ancient
Greece (twin-brother to Norman Lindsay).
Hobbies: political cartoons, dryads and cen-
taurs. Morals : paleolithic. Complexion .
swart. Manner: volcanic. Pose: being
business-like, and not lordly.
The way to success
in literature is obviously
through Boilers. If the
Australian bard will
only cease sonneteer-
ing and go in for
Boilers his literary
future is assured.
Take the case of W.
D. Cruickshank, late
chief engineering sur-
veyor for N.S. W. He
published in 1874 the
first edition of a de-
lightful prose-poem
titled The Principles and
Practice of Boiler Con-
struction, and the issue
was quickly exhausted.
Recently 'the book be-
came so desirable that
single copies were pur-
chased eagerly at two
pounds apiece. Now a
second and revised edi-
tion is issued by Angus
and Robertson, price
15s. This is a record
of which any literary .
man might be proud.
Perhaps the secret of
Cruickshank’s success
is to be found in the
author’s acknowledg-
ment that he ‘ ‘ claims
no originality ” in his
work. It seems a pity,
though, for if there is
anything that seems to
call for originality of
treatment it is a Boiler.
What would not a lover
of literature give for a
book on Boilers' treated
with lightness and fan-
tasy ? Such a book
must some day be
written. In it Boilers
would be treated with a
wide comprehension of
all the delicate humor
and alluring grace in-
herent in every Boiler.
It would be a psean of
poetic praise of Boil-
ers, a psychological
recognition of the
infinite variety in
Boilers, a history of the
sportive frolicsomeness
of Boilers—the Boiler at
work and play, the Boiler at home, the
Boiler boiling and the Boiler bust —
with illustrated autobiographies of pro-
minent Boilers, a word, possibly, upon
the simple diet for Boilers, a discourse
upon “ How to be Beautiful though a
Boiler,” an appendix devoted to the
etiquette for valves and the proper demeanor
of rivets, and helpful hints tb young Boilers
how to Boil. But this book, unhappily, is
not like that. The -critic’s effort to get into
the swing of it led him to being, like ’ the
first edition, quickly exhausted.
John Patrick forwards the latest example
of American publishing methods. The sen-
sational shocker titled Gruel as the Grave
ends thus :
The iron door clanged loudly to, resounding
through the dismal arches.
“ We have her now,” muttered a hoarse voice.
A hollow laugh responded.
And Sybil swooned with horror !
What had occurred and the subsequent happen-
ings is told in “Tried for her Life,” which
forms the sequel to this romance, a copy of
which will be mailed in cloth binding to any
address upon receipt of 75 cents, or for 25 cents m
paper binding, by addressing the publishers of
this book.
THE END.
The last paragraph was printed in the
same type as the rest of the yarn.
A third edition has been called for of
George E. Boxall’s History of the Australian
Bushrangers (Unwin). This interesting book
gives in detail the exploits of our bush-
rangers. Boxall estimates that their num-
ber, including their active partisans, did
not exceed 300 persons ; and he traces to
their influence 4 4 some of the sturdy Repub-
licanism of the modern Australians. lhe
first edition was published in 1899.
A Polish Novelist
For the reader who is sickened hy the
politely sentimental, and entirely false,
view of life found in the popular novel of
the day, Absolution , by the Polish novelist,
Clara Viebig (Lane, per Dymock’s Library),
can be recommended as strong meat. The
scene of this grim study of passion and
poison is set on a desolate Polish farm
among a group of villagers and farm-folk,
depicted with the stark realism of Gorki
and Tolstoi. The plot consists simply of the
efforts of a young wife to poison her old,
boorish and drunken husband. The author
knows her peasants, superstitious, cruel,
mean, passionate, and throws no sentimental
glamor over their motives. The simple old
husband, a kindly but disagreeable old
I animal, the sly and vicious serving-
maid, with her assortment of lovers,
the daughter who sees visions and
talks with the Virgin, the primitive vil-
lagers—all these characters, painted with a
painstaking realism, are absolutely alive.
But the author has spent most pains over
her analysis of the mind of the beautiful
young wife. She is a quite comprehensible
compound of selfish passion and religion.
Throughout, so perfect is the author’s art,
the reader follows with pity, almost with
sympathy, the efforts of the wife to poison
her doting old husband. She has convinced
herself that she would be conferring a benefit
upon humanity, as well as a justifiable relief
to herself, by ridding the world of such a
disagreeable nuisance. And the interest of
this strange drama of poison is sustained
with an equal art. The author conveys to the
reader the ceaseless terror that hangs over the
farm-house, theindefined fears of the husband,
the suspicions of the wife that the serving-
maid knows of her grim intention. The
book shows how little religion has to do with
conduct. All those people are deeply re-
ligious, the wife the most religious of all.
She prays fervently, and gets the visionary
child to pray fervently, to the Saints to aid
her in her dreadful task, looking forward to
its completion with the glad innocence of a
child rewarded. The finale is horrible, yet
inevitable. It is a book which has all the
interest of a novel of adventure, with the
addition that it is almost solely psycho-
logical, and has the callous reality of life. It
leaves a bitter taste in the mouth ; but after
the overcloying with sentimentality that
afflicts the reader of the® impossible modern
English and American novel, this bitterness
is cleansing to the palate. •
“D.M.W.” curses somewhat : How long,
O Lord, how long ? My soul is stirred with-
in me to curse, and I pray you of your
charity let me curse on the Red Page.
Among the legends that have gathered
around the beginnings of literature in Maori-
land, the strangest of all is the Bracken
Myth. Recently a vote of the Auckland
Graphic readers placed Bracken first in the
list of Maoriland poets ; and still more re-
cently a cheerful lunatic who writes under
the pen-name of “ Dog Toby ” in the same
journal has been essaying to review “ New
Zealand Verse ” of the “ Canterbury Poets”
series. Following on the well-trodden path,
he makes the statement that ‘ 1 of course
Bracken’s Pax Vobiscum and Not Understood
are the gems of the whole collection.” Are
they ? Ye gods ! (Also, ye Goths !) This
kind of thing permitted and encouraged in an
otherwise respectable print make one rise
in wrath to take a flying kick at
canin'e wittfed reviewers who, through some
dreadful inborn Cockney instinct, or through
sheer ignorance, discourage the reading of
what is best in our native verse. Both the
I pieces mentioned are good, though in neither
can I detect any hint of the subtle magic of
trueqooetry ; but Adams, Arnold Wall, Jessie
Mackay and a dozen others are represented
in the volume by poetry that will compare
with the very best work done in modern
rime ; and where is Bracken in the company
of these ? In all Bracken’s published work
there are not six sets of verses that would
stand ffn off-chance of publication in any
journal or magazine of decent literary stand-
ing. How many, for instance, would The Lone
Hand be likely to print if the whole bundle
were offered to it in manuscript to-day l
Something may be due to Bracken as a
pioneer ; but the sooner we get rid of the
idiotic theory that this poor, slipshod, tenth-
rate rimester was a great poet the better for
our rising literature. Lastly and finally,
may the curse of David, Homer,
Dante, Shakespeare, Milton, Goethe, Victor
Hugo, Burns, Poe, and Roderic Quinn rest
heavy upon the eternal and unqualified fool
who, like “ Dog Toby,” can find “ few lines
that’linger in the memory and charm alike
the ear and the mind ” in the poetry of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland.


ztae
FASHIONS FOR SPRING at The New Palace Emporium
QUR SPRING and SUMMER FASHION PORT-
FOLIO illustrates the Smartest Costumes, the
Latest Millinery, and the Newest Footwear. Send
for a copy, POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION.
an-
'J'HE ILLUSTRATIONS accompanying this
nouncement are reduced facsimiles of two pages
in our FASHION CATALOGUE, which faithfully
depicts THE SEASON'S MODES.
Breezy Blouses
•. . AT .. .
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
No. 40G.-JAPANESE SILK BLOUSE
SHIRIS, fasten in front, Three-quarter or
Longr Sleeves, 13J to 15£ inch Collar, Black,
Ivory, or Navy, 14/9.
No. 409.—TUCKED JAPANESE SILK
BLOUSES, fasten in front, Three-quarter or
Long Sleeves, to 15| inch Collars, Black,
Navy, or Ivory, 13/6. ‘ “
No. 41.7.—BLACK GLACE SILK BLOUSES,
Three-quarter Sleeves, fasten in front
only, 27/6.
No. 419.-BROWN or BLACK GLACE SILK
BLOUSES, fasten in front, Three-quarter
Sleeves, 25/6.
Also iirFan'ey Check Silk, Black & Navy, 24/6
No. 418.—BLACK or NAVY GLACE SILK
BLOUSES, Three-quarter Sleeves only;
sizes S.W., W., and 0.5., 24/6.
No. 400.—BLACK or NAVY JAPANESE
SILK SHIRT BLOUSES, Long Sleeves,
fasten in front; Three-quarter Sleeves, fasten
at back, 13£ to 15| inch Collars, 12/6.
No. 405.—TUCKED IVORY JAPANESE
SILK BLOUSES, fasten in front, Long or
Three-quarter Sleeves, 10/6.
No. 512.-IVORY JAPANESE SILK SHIRT
BLOUSES, fasten in front, Long or Three-
quarter Sleeves, 12/6.
*lB
R
iicpv f :
*i
*OO
<SE *
m
405
*6
' A/z/icis
/[ICC)
512
SPRING
MILLINERY
AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS' Famous Low Prices.
f
■ *
2A iS *‘ '> •
m
m
m
WM
w&
-
\-V9-
~fr
7-m
fm*
r
*
821
B§3
823
sSm .'™n,
K mtf/Jt
m
m
-
■^Hi° n
0
M?
mm--.
meO'
k Anthony Horderns'
v J Tamouj, OZ&zcr J£>ric%-5.
"rr
: a
&
V f
/'■
825
821
iili
iSmart Styles.
FRESH and
FASHIONABLE.
No. 821.—CRINOLINE STRAW HAT,
trimmed Roses, Primula, Foliage and
Ribbon, 30/-
No. 826. SIRAW HAT, any color, trimmed
Lilac, Roses, Velvet Ribbon, 21/-
No. 822.—CRINOLINE STRAW HAT, Crown
swathed Tulle, smartly trimmed, two
Feathers, Osprey, Sequin Bandeau, 50/-
No. 825.—WHITE and BLACK NET MODEL
D-A-T, Black Crinoline Straw edge, trimmed
Wings, Ornament, Black Osprey, 75/-
No. 823.—CREAM FANCY CRINOLINE
STRAW HAT, trimmed smart- Straw
Bandeau, Pale Green Feather, Rose mount
75/-
No. 824. STRAW HAT, trimmed Rose mount,
Marguerites, Lace under Brim, 21/-
ANTHONY HORDERN &, SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


1«T
and other
SKINS;
A, so BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
SYDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS. HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
h
Dr. Foote's Plain Homf, Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engravings, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Book of Nature, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, 1/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
King Koko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
How McDougall Topped the Score, 1/3. Lover’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio’s Decameron, 2/6.
Heftayerok. 2/6. Bride ok the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under, tiie
Tiles, 1/3. My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramagf., 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
date, Easy Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Gordafre, 1/3. How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits ok Philosophy, 1/-. Mn>-
wivks’Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/-. Reynold’s Court ok London Series, 2/-.
Bootmaking and Impairing, 1/3. How to Be-
comk a Olairvovant, 1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Gay Like in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, l>y Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture, lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
10d. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/-;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, 1/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, f)d. How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Bushranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smiler Hale’s
Novels, Sd. each.
fW~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
UUMMSH
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Music, as you like it,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37 6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
In jjfj
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over ail other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/|| to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
„ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
ĥ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
ħ
35*3
&
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calan >kr, Hordern Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLINC.
■ Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November sth.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
: results will be posted. Tickets maybe had from Agents in all towns, |
;or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
Debility, indigestion
and Palpitation.
A COMPLETE CURE.
By perusing the following story, the reader will
be made acquainted with circumstances that pos-
sibly bear a personal resemblance, in which event
gratefulness would be felt towards Mrs. Josephine
Mack, of No. 21 Parsons Street. Balmain, for
placing on record her remarkable experience.
Answering the reporter’s first question Mrs.
Mack said : .
“As a sufferer from debility and indigestion, I
ought to be able to speak with authority on the
subject of what is the most effective remedy for
such afflictions, and the knowledge I gained in this
respect came through following the example of a
relative, who had been suffering like myself, and
who was quite restored to health by Clements
Tonic.”
“Had you been ailing long, Mrs. Mack?
“Yes, too long for my liking, and a weary time
it was, too. I had tried many alleged remedies,
! and only wasted my money in doing so. Iseed-
less to say how despondent I was as a result. I
had no strength to get about, and the easiest work
in the house was often too much for me. Yes,
anybody around here can tell you what I was like
. then, for I have been in this house for the past
eleven years and am pretty well known. Ah !
little did I think of the misery that was in store
for me when I was a healthy, young woman,
teaching at a school in Tipperary. But we never
know what is before us. Why, my life became a
positive burden to me. I was subject to reeling
sensations. I would feel mysalf swaying to and
fro, and it required a big effort to save myself from
falling to the floor. The severest form of head-
aches attacked me, and I was terribly nervous,
too, and when nervousness binges on to a woman
her unhappiness is complete. Ihe terrifying
thoughts that come to the brain, such as strange
sounds being present, making the belief that
somebody is stealthily moving about tne room, or
a window being raised in the dead of night, are
enough to distract a person entirely. And in the
fretful state of mind then ruling every little
trouble was magnified into an impassable mountain
of adversity. Very often I would go and lie down,
quite unable to keep up any longer, and 1 don t
know what would have happened only for the
Clements Tonic that I fortunately started taking
in time.”
“Did your illness entail any difference m your
weight? ”
“My word, it did; but it waS astonishing how
soon it came back once I had got properly going
with Clements Tonic, which seemed to make the re-
moval of my afflictions quite easy. Before this, I
hadn’t any prospect of getting my strength back - ,
for I could not eat, and a person cannot do much
good without an appetite. But the trouble was
that when I did force myself to eat, I suffered
fearfully from indigestion—heavy sensations in
the chest, such as made the very act of breathing
a difficulty, and pains under my shoulders, across
my back, and aches in my limbs that were most
wearisome. My heart palpitated dreadfully, and
there we.e pains in the region of that organ, too.
So you see, I was altogether in a bad way. But,
thank God, there is a very marked difference in
my physical condition between now and then, and
I have to give all the credit to the remedy I’ve
already mentioned. Trie derangements of my
nervous system, that had obstinately remained in
existence until Clements Tonic was brought into
requisition, do not trouble me now, neither do any
of the disorders that had proved so wearisome.
Bv judiciously keeping to my newly-won friend,
Clements Tonic, I succeeded in regaining the
priceless gift of good, robust health, and it is only
fair that I should give to that remedy all the
credit that is due to it. As a nerve tonic, to
brace a woman up, and make her feel invulner-
able against the hardest work and the severest
trials that happen during one’s course through
life, 1 recommend Clements Tonic. It not only
cured my indigestion, but also supplied in unstint-
ed measure nerve force and strength, which gives
a woman confidence in herself, and to the weak
and sickly I shall always advise the use of that
grand preparation.”
“Your views will be duly chronicled.”
“Very well, you are at liberty to publish them
where and how you think best for the benefit of the
whole community.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JOSEPHINE MACK, of 21 Parsons Street, Balmain,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and >s a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements —which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Balmain, this twenty-fourth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me,
8] SYD. J. LAW, J.P.


This elder brother
evidently knows
how to play
doctor, in real
earnest. He
knows about
Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. His
mother told
him. Her
mother told
her, and her
grandmoth-
er’s mother
told her
mother. It’s
the one stand-
ard cough medicine for children.
IL
>fyer’s
''Cherry 9eetcral
is entirely free from narcotics or
poison of any kind. It is the great
remedy the world over for colds,
coughs, croup, whooping-cough,
influenza, la grippe, and all bron-
chial complaints.
Accept no substitute or cheap
and worthless imitation. Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr, J, C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, ft’aes., U.S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to an one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD * ’
Ooif entry FByers
at than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
h
LATEST
MODELS
£3mtO to £B
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dig
trict. Lar e j iroflt
easily made. Write u. once, using Fufflcient postage,
- for free Art Catalogues and our Speolal Offer
tn sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ w sso LIVERPOOL
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND von
can’t keep current with Australian Art.
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stones and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
to tlie office, 214 George Street Sydney.
“For years
I suffered
with
ANAEMIA
and although I tried many
preparations I could only
get relief for a short time,
and then was again as
bad as ever. After the
first bottle of SCOTT’S
Emulsion I found my con-
dition improving, so con-
tinued with it, and now
can positively say I am
cured. I look and feel a
very different woman.”
22 Ferndale Street, (Mrs.) E. SPICER
Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W. 7/9/07.
ĥ
Above is the Proof in the
*Facts. Here is Proof in
the Reason Why : The
) Emulsion which brought
back health and spirits
to Mrs. Spicer was
SCOTT’S, and if you
desire exactly the same
results you will be wise
to procure exactly the
same Emulsion— Scott’s
—with “ the Fishman i
with the Fish ” on the package.
SCOTT’S Emulsion is different from
every other emulsion in being made of
the finest quality Lofoten cod liver oil
by the original perfected SCOTT pro-
cess—two points which place SCOTT’S
far ahead of all its competitors. There- (
fore, when purchasing don’t ask for I
“Emulsion;” ask for and get
Emulsion
—the difference between them means
a cure for you !
See that “ the Fishman
with the is on the package.
Of all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicines
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton's
and see that you qet it.
Established 1752.
When you need a Pill, take a
Brandreth’s
Pill
PURELY VEGETABLE.
ALWAYS EFFECTIVE.
For Chronic Constipation.
ħ
Draw the picture up
clo-e before your eyes
ar.d watch the pill
go into the mouth.
Brandreth’s Pills purify the b 7 ood,<
invigorate the digestion and cleanse the
stomach and bowels. They stimulate the
liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic
medicine that regulate, purify and fortify the whole svstem.
Constipation, Dizziness, Drowsiness, Coated Tongue, Bad
Breath, Headache, Pain in Stomach, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
liiyer Complaint, Bilious Headache, Jaundice, or any disorder
arising from impure state pf the blood. ■ ■ ' •»
FOR SALE BY DRUGGISTS throughout the world.
SO Pills in every Box.
h
Established 1847.
Allceck’s Porous Plaster
A Universal Remedy for Pain.
Wherever there’s pain apply an Allcock’s Plaster.
ĥ
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER. and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
F 9
¥
N
A Lye-time Necessity
It is not simply now and then, but always and every day that
Horlick’s Malted Milk proves its value and its handiness.
A reliable food for the baby, a source of strength to the
growing boy, a stamina giver for athletes, a stimulating,
blood-making food for anasmie girls, a valuable tonic for
shaken nerves, and a digestible and enjoyable food for old
age—all of these things you find in Horlick’* Malted Milk.
Made in a moment —only water needed.
Sold by all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, &e.
HORLICKS MALTED MILK
Samples: 82 Pitt Street. Sydney, N. S. Wales. Horlick's Food Co. Slough, Bucks, England.
Wiien you ask for
BOVRIL
do not take a cheap imitation. BOVRIL is all beef and is a
standardised strength-giving food.
Always have BOVRIL handy.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In (he Season of the Year.
Her hair was red and her eyes were green and her
cheeks were a carmine shriek.
And she looked the world its eves between with a
stare that was far from meek ;
Her haughty glance burned all along the tram-
car’s crowded length,
And the damp tram-atmosphere was strong with
a rainy evening’s strength.
And she sat erect in her silken pride, with her
parcels upon her knee,
And the furtive, picked tram-people eyed her
splendor, nervously ;
But all too soon her pomp had fled, and her pride
came tumbling—drash !
And she bowed her red, rebellions head, and she
barked a loud “ Ar -rash /”
Her hair was red—and her eyes were wild as she
sneezed, three times iii all.
And out from the mass of her hair, high-piled, you
could see the hairpins fall,
And following on her frenzy came a bitter, insulted
look
As a stranger buried his face in shame, with an
echoing chirp “ Ka -chook /”
And so it goes while the winter’s here and the
whole town hugs the fire,
And the trains are full of faces drear, and the
world is full of mire,
And the white, old, whiskered soul whose chief
train-argument is “Bosh !”
Gives up his choicer styles to call out sillv words
like “ Wosh ! ”
And when to the tea-room, gay and bold you go
with your angel fair,
You step, all glad, from the drizzling cold to the
musical warmth in there ;
And she that you love the best of all, who’s
murmuring things to you,
Allows her dulcet voice to fall—and whispers,
shrinking, “ Shoo I ”
And when the tea and the cakes are done, and
the string band takes a rest,
It’s your turn next—you are the one by the Evil
Thing possessed ;
It’s now your racketing sneeze breaks out and
echoes along the roof—
A loud, triumphant, splendid shout, “Go’ besh
my soul! Ha -woof!”
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
The Spinster of Rockley Hall.
She shrank from lives that blew a wind of cold
distrust
Which chilled to winter what she felt of spring ;
And scorned the lives that laid them lowly in the
dust,
In showy self-abasement, coyly posturing ;
And fled from them that stormed as if by force of
sound
They’d make her world go their way, round and
round and round.
’Twas so the many men her maiden eyes espied
She shrank from, scorned or fled from whence-
so’er they came;
She waited for a life where two could side by
side,
See rising sun and noon and setting sun the
same,
And be to one another flawless, all in all—
And that is why she’s spinster still at Rocklev
Hall.
N.S.W.
OBY.
Jane Brown.
Yes, Mrs. Smithers, I’ve bin to town,
And ’oo do ye think as I see ? . . . Jane Brown ! !
Lawks a mussy, ye wouldn’t ’ave knowed ’er—
All th’ fuss as them gentry showed ’er;
Yes, there was my lady, all silk an’ rustle,
Pert as ye like in th’ thick o’ th’ bustle ;
I says : “ That beats everythink ever I see,”
’Er swagger an’ cheek knocks th’ breath out o’
me . . .
So out goes my ’and as I grabs ’er gown,
An’ I says: “Well I’m blest, if it ain’t Jane
Brown.”
Tghty-tighty, she turns that red,
She frowns that ’aughty, an’ jerks ’er ’ed,
An’ stands a minute as if debatin’,
An’ there stands I, with my ’and out, waitin’ .
Then by me she whisks with ’er frills, ’alf-
shrinkin’.
An’ I stands fer a bit, Mrs. Smithers, thinkin’;
’Er motorin’ ’usband walks bv ’er side
She ain’t no more than a two months’ bride
An’ ’e calls ’er Jean, ” an’ ’e speaks caressin’;
But, says I: “ All ’is motors an’ frills an’ dressin’,
’ls ‘ Jeanin’ an’ silks an’ ’is ’ouse in town
Don’t make YE no lady, my fine Jane Brown.
“Not even no woman with all yer lace,
To scorn a rough ’and an’ a old friend’s face.”
All them pinnies I’ve ironed ’er too;
An’ th’ darn on ’er frock as th’ briar came
through. . .
’ Er , as played in my backyard gutter,
Eatin’ my treacle an’ bread an’ butter ;
An’ while she stands tossin’ ’er ’ed so mighty,
Oldin’ ’er frillin’s that ’ighty-tighty,
I just starts to count as I stares ’er down—
’Ow many smacks as I’ve give Jane Brown.
An’ that's what comes o’ them schools an’ stage,
’Stead of a cap an’ a ’ousemaid’s wage.
An’ I says “ Jane Brown, ye can go yer way ;
Will ye toss yer ’ed on th’ Reck’nin’ Day ?
When no names’ll be missed from them long, long
pages,
We’ll each ’ave to answer an’ take th’ wages •
Yourn won’t ’ave much frillin’, pat, up an’ down,
Ye’ll get it—no ‘ Lady ’—but just Jane Brown.”
TASMANIA. .....
M. LE GRAND.


ħ
I
/
o
S'
*2
O
»-v
a
LL 1^
It Stands for Wunderlich Metal
Ceilings—The Safest and Best.
These famous steel ceilings represent the most modern development (n house building
and add a distinctive charm to the home that Is pleasing to every person of taste.
They are permanent, adaptable, fire-resisting, and do not harbour dirt or microbes.
And they cost so little for freight, tool The expense of sending the lime and sand
tor ceilings of a house is over four times as much as that for Wunderlich MetaT
Sheets. Is that not worth considering ?
Send for our new catalogue, which tells you all about these beautiful steel celllngs-
M»e tnost artistic form of interior decoration yet devised.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Postal Address:
Boa 474, G.P.O.
Sydney Showrooms: 56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Showrooms: 243 Collins St.
Tfie*JsjSsen ce of'Vitality
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
*f* - f m
SUPPORTS
M ILLIONS
e
e
f
a
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tojurist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate .Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country*
with its endless variety of superband marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia. <
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director
Sydney. Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. G. HIGGS, Local Director.
~JG£uNS
r ARF, SAFE
' and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality, j
W. W. GREENER’S
Facile Princeps
1 The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Ca'.a’ojrues write W. P. Thomp-
S jj’3 i 7* Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener,Birmingham. *
CZERNY’S
CONJURING CARDS.
Complete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free OIME SHILLING (Postal Note).
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Vic.
BAINS’ WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living: n it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
-5 Mutual Life Building's, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.-
Conjuring Tricks. Puzzles. Surprise and Joke Novelties.
the, u.s.a. squirt pistol. I
will stop
the most
vicious
dog (or
manjwith*
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse*
for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2J9, or post free anywhere for 3/*
h
ĥ
ħ
Quite Shocking, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOGRAPH.—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with ‘
this little peep show. It is made entirely of /
metal, and consists of a tube having-a micros- 1
copic lens fitted into one end. While the)
victim is absorbed in admiration of the pretty!
picture, and turns the button in the con-1
fident expectation of seeing something in-'
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into'
action, and the observer experiences a veyy '
great surprise. It is very simple to operate, '
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in -
the vest pocket. Full directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue —
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
The “ JoKer ” Tricß Matchbox.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening- the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions,
7d. post free.
h
ĥ
ħ
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Strekt, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
The Carrington Hotel,
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Ideal Winter Climate.
Winter Terms, Bs. per Day ; £2 2s. per Week.
A. L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
AN HONEST PROPOSITION
TO PARTIALLY
DEAF PEOPLE.
The “EXTRA EAR”
is a scientifically constructed HEARING APPARATUS, which can be
worn with comfort at Home, in Church, Theatre, or Concert Hall.
Weight under £oz. , r „ .. ■ ; . • - '
The “EXTRA EAR” is not “invisible” or “ electric,” nor will it. cure you of deafness, but it is
just the most useful instrument invented to date for the comfort of anyone whose hearing 1 is defective.
Price 215., postage paid, to any address. Money Order or Postal Notes must accompany orders.
OUR GUARANTEE.—Money refunded in full if Instrument is found unsuitable, and is posted back to
us in original \yrapper within seven days of receipt. [Please mention this paper.
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD.,
Contractors to Queensland Government and Hospitals.
Reference : English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd.—All Branches.
The Surgical Supply House,
BRISBANE, Q.
N.B.—We publish no testimonials
(I
m
Placed under galvanized Iron GIANT PAPER keeps
out the heat in summer and keeps in the warmth
in winter. Under the floors and linings it renders
a house dust, damp, draught and insect proof.
E. RICH <§b CO., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rose Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1493.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24.
PltlCK dtj
THE GRAND POLITICAL CUP.
The Federal session is begining inder the miserable conditions with which the public are familiar.-GEPRGE REID.
THE MISERABLE ONE: "YUSS, IT'S GOIN' T' BE THE SAME OLD ROTTEN RACE. I WON'T 'AVE A BLOOMIN' 'OPE!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Rev Annum ... ... •••
Half-yearly ... ... ••• nvn
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0/0
By sending direct, to Tun Bulletin Office lwenty-Six,
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a, year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and, all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
lIoIV to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tun Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (■with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, 'l'o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the vropes
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
officials. The person may not be there; the ojjicial
a lways is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
the publishers. , . ~
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly conji-
Tnn But.lk.tin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, ' further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that- it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. ltlaelc and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sulhcient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i e any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. .
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail front Messrs,
(iotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Aiisiralasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
' South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver, b. C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, hhl Hastings Street ; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Rank Street, Ottaiva.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs . John Little and Co,
A t/eiits 9 Special Notice .
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x
will be forwarded on application . Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired . ___________
2SFIIW2 7 eZz/n.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1908.
THE CAPITAL AND THE INTERESTS
OF THE WORKERS.
It appears to be rather questionable whether the
Australian Labor party fully realises how much it
has at stake in the selection of an Australian
capital. The matter is one of vast import-
ance in any case, for this is the first time in
the world’s known history that any community
has gone out to select the metropolis of a whole
continent; and the only city on earth that is, or
ever has been, or (in all probability) ever will be,
the deliberately chosen political centre of a con.
tinent is not a place to be picked at random.
Even when the most polite and affable and popu-
lar—and also the most plausible—of political
leaders goes round soliciting votes for his favorite
dry spot on the strength of his popularity, and
breathing his seductive tale into the ear of his
fellow-man, it is essential to remember that the
interests of the Democracy should come first,
and the desire to oblige an old and affable
acquaintance should be a very bad second In
this matter of the capital the whole duty of the
Australian Democracy lies on one side, while the
plutocrat, the land-grabber, and the apostle of
Private Enterprise are convinced that their
interests lie on the other. Thanks to the kindly
assurances of the capitalistic press that the thing
is really of little importance one way or the other,
a large section of the Democracy may possibly
fail to realise that every principle it has is at stake
in the matter. If it doesn’t realise that m time
it will certainly find it out later on ; but later on
is mostly too late.
* * *
The Australian Parliament is the one Legislature
in Australia which is wholly representative of
the people. In both Houses the people-not
! section of them, but the whole people-
Ko/Vlnfa and supreme. There is neither a
House of Nominees nor a House of Property to
deny the popular will. The Federal territory
will be a bit of Australia that has been rescued
from the domination of Nominee Houses or
Houses of Rich Landlords, and it is desirable that
as much of Australia as possible should be thus
rescued. The people can decree, if they so
please, that in the Federal territory there sha
be no ground-landlordism, and that the soil shall
be the property of the nation for ever, and when
they set to work to make a little model State,
they want enough space to enable their principle
to show its best results. It is impossible for even
the best principle to reveal what it is capable of
if it is confined to a pocket-handkerchief allot-
ment, while on 5000 square miles of country it
may develop splendid results. Naturally the 1 ory
section of the community doesn’t want a Federal
territory of any size; the very last thing it
desires is that the principle of public land-owner-
ship should have room to show its best results.
Similarly, it is to the interests of the Democracy
that the Federal capital should be on a site where
the growth of a really great city may be reason-
ably expected. It wants to have as many people
as possible under the direct and sole rule of the
Legislature which has neither a Nominee House
nor a Property-elected House. The Tory section,
on the contrary, reckons that the fewer people
that are under pure Democratic rule, and the more
that are under Nominee Houses and Houses of
Rich Landlords, the better. A quiet federal
hamlet is its ideal, and it looks anxiously for; &
place where the hamlet principle is likely to be
perpetuated. The aggregate Toryism of Australia
would find mental refreshment in after years
if it could point to an unprogressive, drowsy little
city lying on one of the by-ways of the land, and
remark that pure Democratic rule hadn’t made
it much of a place after all, and that, compared
with the great bustling centres which had grown
up where democratic foolishness was tempered by
the aged wisdom of a House of Nominees or a
Chamber of Rich Landlords, it was a darned poor
example.
*'•**■*
Furthermore, it is in the interests of the Demo-
cracy that the Australian capital should be a great
manufacturing city. The Democracy wants to
show the world that under ideal laws and regula-
tions—not the kind that are supplied by Nominee
Chambers and Houses of Rich Landlords—the
factory life may be abundantly healthy ; that it
need not be associated with hideous buildings and
unlovely slums; that it may be a well-paid and
decent business; and that there are in it
possibilities for the expansion of Public En-
terprise that Australia has hardly considered
as yet. To make a great manufacturing
city cheap and abundant power is necessary;
hence the demand for a capital beside some such
waterway as the Snowy River. I here are scores,
or rather hundreds, of places on the Snowy, both
above and below the capital site, where turbines
could be erected and unlimited power transmitted
to the city. But the Tory section of the com-
munity doesn’t crave for any great manufacturing
town run under conditions that would make its
own factories seem an eyesore by comparison, and
it doesn’t want any large, new manufacturing
population living in healthy circumstances, which
would make its own old slums and the death-rate
thereof appear wholly needless horrors. It might
be supposed that the confirmed Tory, who pro-
fesses to be so certain of the failure of 1 üblic
Enterprise and such things, would be pleased
to see an experiment made with a great
manufacturing Federal city, so that he
might be justified by its failure ; but some-
how he isn’t pleased. The sight of
the unlimited water power of the Snowy and
adjacent streams running to waste might set the
Federal Parliament (which isn’t ballasted by any
Nominees or Rich Landlords) to work at the
nationalisation of the tobacco industry and the
construction of a great national tobacco factory,
and Toryism reckons that temptation of that sort
shouldn’t be placed in its way. So the Tory—
either the avowed one or the disguised sample—
enthusiastically recommends places like Glen
Innes, which "has hardly any water (certainly
none to spare for generating power); or Canberra,
which has a bare drinking supply, and where the
only possible water power (that from Barren
Jack) belongs to the State and would be just as
unavailable as if it belonged to the Shah of Persia.
* * * *
Further, the Democracy is interested in having
a prosperous Federal port attached to the
capital. It might be impossible even there to
evolve the Ideal or Heavenly Lumper, but it
should be possible, in a port where all the wharves
belong to the one wholly democratic Government
in Australia, and where the housing accommoda-
tion, the educational arrangements, the liquor
supply, and all other conditions are looked after
by the same authority, to produce something
much better than the average. Possibly the ex-
istence of the Federal port might even put new
life into the idea of a Federally-owned line of mail
boats, but that is another matter. At any rate,
the interests of the waterside workers are bound
up in that Federal port. Work is not so abundant
with them that they can afford to despise
the prospect of adding another prosperous
seaport to those already in existence; and
though the new place might be of little use
to the ancient and confirmed lumper who has
taken root in Brisbane or Sydney or Melbourne or
Port Adelaide, it would be a Godsend to his son,
the young and unattached lumper, who finds his
father’s calling very much overcrowded at times.
Anyhow, neither the avowed Tory nor his dis-
guised agent is taking any risks over the develop-
ment of the Ideal Lumper and the establishment
of a port where things would be run by the
wholly democratic Australian Parliament. The
Conservative person, who is also, as a rule, a
most parochial person, is solid on the neces-
sity for an inland capital, and one which
wiil have no cheap sea access for the pro-
duce of Queensland and Tasmania and other
States. If there are to be any new ports he
reckons that the State Parliaments, with their
Nominee or Property-elected Upper Houses, can
look after them. Besides, if there were a large and
prosperous manufacturing city for a Federal capi-
tal, and a good-sized Federal territory, and a pro-
sperous Federal port, there would necessarily be a
Federal railway to the port, and though it would be
a small affair, still the purely (he would probably
say beastly) democratic Australian Parliament
might run things on principles that would make
other railway-men dissatisfied with their lot.
Further, if the capital were placed where it would
become a great manufacturing city, the sight of a
great population and a great rush of business
would be a temptation to the beastly democratic
Australian Parliament to create a beastly Com-
monwealth Bank, with its headquarters in the
capital. And furthermore, the Federal revenue
from a population of half-a-million or so of
people would be considerable, and the Tory
has a deep-rooted idea that it is a bad thing
for a Parliament that is wholly elected by
the people to be trusted with money ; money,
he holds, can only be properly looked after
where there is a House of Nominees or else a
Chamber of Rich Landlords, elected solely by
property-holders. So the Tory person and his
disguised agent become more solid than ever on
the question of a little far inland metropolis with
no port; no territory large enough to lead to rash
experiments in public ownership of land; no
water power that might, in some moment of
temptation, be used to turn the wheels of a
publicly-owned distillery or tobacco factory; no
manufacturing population to be pampered by the
sort of laws that a Parliament wholly elected by
the people is liable to pass ; and no big popula-
tion of any kind to bloat the Federal authority
with revenue that might be used in [socialistic
experiments,” and to encourage the starting of
big influential newspapers that might be tainted
by the “Socialistic atmosphere” of the place.
Therefore his friends go round discoursing about
the “beautiful Italian climate ” of places like the
Canberra site (part of which is 2900 ft. above sea
level, as compared with Dalgety’s 2650 ft.), or pro-
pounding such far inland spots as Glen Innes
which hasn’t even a creek to its credit, let alone a
river, and which roosts at a “blizzard-swept
elevation nearly 800 ft. higher than Dalgety.
The Bulletin states once more that it does not
regard Monaro as the ideal site of Australia, but
only of N.S.W. It would be quite satisfied to
never even hear the name of that place again all
the days of its life, if it saw the chance of a
metropolis on one of the big rivers up toward
Arnheim Land, where there would be 500,000
square miles of Federal territory at the capitals
back door to be opened up and developed and
made into an ideal State under the immediate
supervision of the Australian Parliament. It yen
if it was necessary to raise the legislative
“screw” to £l2OO a year in order to induce
members to go out into the wilderness, it
should be money well spent. But the choice is
confined within the limits of N.S.W., and appa-
rently the only thing to be done is to make the
best of those limitations. The interests of the
people lie in getting a big Federal territory a
prosperous Federal port, and a Federal city with
all the possibilities of greatness. That is the case
for Monaro put shortly. Also, so far as this
paper can find out, the advocacy of Dalgety has
so far at least, been clean and honorable. It
hasn’t heard of so much as' one syndicate (either
with or without politicians in it) secretly getting
an option on 50,000 or 60,000 acres of land theie-
abouts.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Federal Capital Misrepresentations.
The near approach of the Federal capital site
debate moved N.S.W. State Premier Wade, last
Monday, to burst into the columns of Sydney
Telegraph with explanation and reproach, com-
mencing as follows: —
During the discussions that have been going oil with
regard to the rival merits ot Dalgety and t/anberra as
sites for the Federal capital, a very persistent effort has
been made to mislead the public with representations
that the water supply of Dalgety was derived from t
Snowy River, Photographs and engravings of the Snowy
River'have been circulated, showing a broad ,
water, and in contrast pictures have been exhibited, of
the Cotter River as a miserable, puny creek. It T* appa-
rently NOT GENERALLY KNOWN THAT THE SNOWY BIVBR 18
DEBARRED from use as a water supply for the
site on account of settlement along its banks and liability
of pollution. The stream relied upon for the water supply
is the Mowambah.
Then Wade dropped into a great mass of figures
(presumably accurate) to prove that the Cotter at
Canberra really yields more water than the Mo-
wambah at Dalgety, and thereby he seemed to
reckon that he had badly demolished his oppo-
nents. And in reality he hadn t demolished
anybody, but had merely shown his utter reck-
lessness of assertion, and his readiness to use
the wildest misrepresentations if he could
thereby carry a point. In the first place, the
story about there being any settlement worth
mentioning along the upper waters of the bnowy
is an exploded myth. It has been exploded so
often that Wade ought to be ashamed to dredge
up the old fable at this late hour. There are
about half-a-dozen or a dozen houses along the
Upper Snowy, most of them lying back from the
river, and the whole lot can be bougnt up and
destroyed, if necessary, at very small cost
Of course, if the Upper Snowy were left
in the hands of the State, and the State
allowed the land to be closely settled by
farmers and cows, the river would suffer from
“liability to pollution”; but then a,ny river
would under the same conditions. And there is
no idea of leaving the upper river in the hands ot
the State. On this subject District-Surveyor
Scrivener wrote in his report (17/10/(Jo):
With the catchment area controlled by the Federal
Government, pollution of the waters of the &nowy
River would be impossible.
Then again Wade’s calculations re the scantiness
of the Mowambah River water supply are either
gross ignorance or purposeful deception, for no one
ever proposed that the Mowambah should be the
sole supply of the Federal city, On this subject
the report of the Royal Commission which sat in
1903 (Messrs. Kirkpatrick, Howitt, Stanley,
and Graham Stewart) said
The sources of water supply for the Federal city, if
placed near Dalgety, would bf, the Snowy River and its
TRIBUTARIES THE MOWAMBAH, EUCUMBENE AND CRACKEN-
back, all of which are permanent snow-fed streams havl ”ff
their rise in the Snowy Mountains, and could be tapped
at a suitable elevation to provide water by gtavitation.
It is proposed to obtain the primary supply (tnat is for
a population of 50,000) from the Mowambah River.
And on the same subject District-Surveyor
Scrivener wrote: —
Dalo-ety has a choice of means of procuring an adequate
water” sunnlv. During the early constructive stages,
A STEAM PUMP ON THE BANK OF THE SNOWY RIVER, WITH-
IN LESS TH AN A MILE OF THE CITY SITE, WOULD AFFORD A
SUFFICIENT SUPPLY FROM AN UNCONTAMINATED SOURCE.
These official statements give the lie direct to the
yarns about the water of the Snowy being foul
and undrinkable, and about it being necessary
to rely on the Mowambah; and they
ought to cover with shame the individuals
who use such dubious means to influence public
opinion. The Cotter may or may not be bigger at
times than the Mowambah, but, even if it is, that
has no earthly bearing on the case. And there
was one essential aspect of the problem that even
Wade, with all his capacity for misrepresentation,
didn’t dare to touch upon. The matter of water
power to furnish electric light and heat and power
to drive machinery isn’t once mentioned in his
letter Every official who reported on the Dal-
gety site dwelt on the supply of water power
available there, but nobody was mad enough to
suggest that anything of that sort could
obtained from the scanty Cotter
apparently hadn’t a misrepresentation m stock
that was large enough to meet that case, so he
wisely left the thing alone.
The Finances of Australian Iron and Steel.
The public has just had a chance to get its first
real look into the finances and
of iron and steel manufacture. But one serious
attempt has been made of late years to provide
Australia with the indispensable industry and it
has been known in a vague way’ Srofitable 7
direct aid, that business has .not been^prohtable.
An application made under the 1N..-. • . ,
Gon law by the men employed at the Bithgow
works 'allowed, however, something more defi-
nite to reach the public. Judge Scholes and those
associated with him on the special Wages Board
decided, as a first step, to call in an expert ac-
countant to overhaul the accounts ; and he has
now furnished the result of his inquiries—inquiries
which confirm the vague i m pression previously held,
and conclude with the advicethat, on the accounts,
the industry calls, not for an increase, but tor a
reduction of wages. The big central fact is stated
in this comparison, which covers the first lifiii-
year (Jan. -July 4, 1908) after the concern passed
from Wm. Sandford, Ltd., to G. and C. Hoskins,
Ltd. :
Cost. Selling Price,
per ton. per ton.
Pig iron .. .. £3 10 o'l7 £3 l 1
Bar iron and steel. 10 12 5 - 98 10 9 11 8.
The Hoskins Co.’s loss in its first half-year was
£8207: the Sandford Co.’s loss m its last naii-
year was £7557. Accepting the accountants
figures as they stand (though in some respects
thev require further explanation), there is one
obvious alternative besides a reduction ot wages,
and that is an improvement of the market. 1
trouble hitherto has been to compete with the
foreign metal and keep the works going,
itemising costs of production the accountan
shows that material, wages, coal, and stoics cost
£3 Is. 2d. per ton of iron, and depreciation, ad
ministration, and 5 per cent, interest on capit
cost were together responsible for a further feb.AUd.
per ton. Practically there would be no inciease
in these latter charges if the output were doubted.
Indeed, there is frequently more wear and tear on
a plant run intermittently than upon one ru
regularly. The market for pig iron exists in Aus-
tralia ; what remains to be done is to secure it for
Australian goods. Do that, assure this industry
a largely increased output, and at once the cost of
production will be lowered. The wages cost per
ton will be lowered, too, without lowering
pay per hour. In February last, for instance
there was some trouble at the works, and only
279 tons of pig iron were turned out In that
month the wages cost was no less thani £2 1 •
10d per ton. A month or two later, when the
works were brisk, a rush of orders having come
in the wages cost was only 9s. Bd. per ton. The
figures lumped with others of less account in one
table are sosignificant that they are worth extract-
ing in full
Wage Cost of Producing Pig Iron.
Output. Wages per ton.
Jan- 25 (4 weeks) .- 1306 tons ' £0 15
Feb. 22 (4 tak
Mar. 21 (4 „ ) •• £
April 25 (5 ~ ) 3694 ~ a 10
May 23 (4 ~ ) •• 2936 ~
June 20 (4 „ ) .. 2621 „ » “
July 4(2 „ ) •• KFo » , . V 1 \
Fractions and decimals are averaged in the toi -
going. The average wage cost for the whole period
was 12s. per ton ; but when orders were coming
in freely and the works were kept busy
the wage cost was 9s. 9d., or a saving of 2.. 3 •
per ton. Probably, if they worked at their full
capacity, the reduction would be 3s. per ton.
Also, in that case, instead of the standing charges
(depreciation, interest, etc.) amounting to Bs. lJa.
per ton as they did last half-year, they might
very easily be reduced to ss. per ton, and perhaps
a good deal less. Other costs follow in th e same
way. Probably it will stagger some peopie to
discover that in this business the direct labor cost
amounts to only 12s. in a total of £3 10s., but
practically the whole of the rest of the costs aie in
direct labor costs-the wages paid to coal-hewers
coke-burners, iron ore miners, railway men and
others. Assure a market for iron, and thus give
a continuity of employment to these men, and
at least 20 per cent, might easily be
costs so far as they are concerned, and they might
still be better paid than they are to-day. It is ttie
case of the Australian coke-making b™™®®
again ; in 1893, with an output of 17,858 tons, the
coke could only be produced at a costof£l2sßd
per ton. Last year, with an output of 204,609 tons.
Hie business was highly profitable, though the
value was down to 12s. 6d. per ton. The thing
that clearly needs to be done is to practically
guarantee the Australian industry a market, and
that can be done best by a Protective duty. A
bonus will help, certainly-help greatly—but a
bonus isn’t as good as a duty for general purposes.
A bonus is nearly always a temporary busi-
ness • and the guarantee needs to have a
permanent look about it to induce men
to put in up-to-date machinery and plant
and keep it up-to-date; and without that
the best results are out of the question
So far as this iron and steel industry is concerned
nothing is plainer than that Australia has simply
got to have it, no matter what it costs, fortu-
nately, it is not going to cost much.. Accountant
Allard’s figures show a loss, certainly , but the
loss is not great and can easily be bridged by
guaranteeing a market. The State has done its
part bv means of contracts at advanced prices foi
[ron and steel supplies; the Commonwealth,
which, having Defence within its responsibilities
is really more interested in the establishment of
the industry, must do its part now by offering a
bonus in default of the Protection which it ought
to have given but hasn’t so far.
The Little Australian who Lives.
The Commonwealth was just beaten by Prussia
and Holland in the matter of what may he called
the effective or beneficial birth-rate for 1906, but
by noother country whereof the records get into the
text books. There were several countries where
the infant was more frequent; but there wasn t
one which kept the small citizen alive so assidu-
ously after he had appeared. The South Austra-
lian Registrar-General has made his annual col-
lection of birth and death statistics ; and with
those as a basis it is easy to arrive at the effective
birth-rate—the increase due to the excess ot
arrivals over departures. I or instance :
Per 100,000 of Mean Population.
Births. Deaths. Births.
Commonwealth .. 2641 1085 1006
Netherlands ii ~ «£> 1480 1560
SK3*-:; S IS 22
Norway „ 790 1600 1190
Scotland •* n 7l n 1540 1170
England and Wales . ■ - 4440 1130
Swe . den 3410 2620 790
France 2060 1990 _ 70
For last year, however, the Australian figures were
even better by comparison than these : of
Births. Deaths. Births.
_ • 2967 1122 1845
Tasmania 1109 1815
Wescraha |924 1659
N. S. Wales • - ■ • 1035 1652
Queensland .. •• gg' 1095 1635
Maoriland. S3S7 972 1425
S. Australia .. •• f/ n 66 1350
Victoria . ~7 ,
Undoubtedly the abnormal rate in Westraha
must be regarded as to some extent a set-off
against the comparatively low rate in S. Australia
and Victoria, a large number of K'ggL “Satof
women having been drawn from the latter states.
But, in spite of the comparatively poor figures for


those two States, the average for the Common-
wealth for 1907 was far higher than that of any
European country for 1906. There is still plenty
of room to deplore the fact that the Australian
birth-rate isn’t what it ought to be. On the other
hand, there is plenty of room for a much more
cheerful view with regard to what is the more
important aspect of the matter from the severely
practical point of view ; for, after all, what avails
it for Spain, for instance, to have a birth-rate of
34T per 1000 if it kills off its population at the rate
of 26'2 per 1000, since thus it can only show an
annual gain of 7'9 per 1000?
About Sydney’s Remarkable Railway Station.
Thus “Talafekau” (who writes from Tonga, and
is consequently a trifle late in his reply):—
I daresay it may be late in the day to write querying
Mr. O’Sullivan’s wrathful railway remarks from a place
almost as distant from business centres as his “ Central”
Station, but when he claims for his Sydney white
elephant dimensions “exceeding those of any railway
station in Great LSritain ” (B. 9/7/”08) one wonders if this
is not a case of “ what do they know of England who
only Redfern know?” I reckon, anyway, that the
elephant is big and cumbrous enough already without
permitting wild exaggeration’s artful aid to aggravate
the difficulties of dealing with it, and, to borrow his own
imagery, Mr. O'Sullivan has absolutely lost himself in
the bush in regard to this question. Evidently he
has never seen Great Britain’s largest railway station,
the Waverley, in Edinburgh, driven like a huge
wedge into the valley between the old and the
new towns; and, if he has seen, he must have forgot-
ten the spreading wildernesses of Waterloo (half-a-dozen
stations in one) and Liverpool-street (London), not to
mention magnificent St. Pancras, or even the recently-
reconstituted Victoria Station, Pimlico. All of these are
considerably bigger affairs than the O’Sullivan Suburban
Selection, and, if Mr. O’S.’s Polly is larger than New-
street, Birmingham, and one or two other great pro-
vincial depbts I could detail, did I desire to labor the
argument, it does not look so. The stations I have in my
mind's eye are mostly fine, fully-completed structures,
with great glass roofs reaching in sweeping spans be-
tween vast surrounding piles of hotel or office buildings,
while the isolated O’Sullivan skeleton is as yet only a
station in the making, being mainly a collection of plat-
forms “ sheltered ” by an odd botchery of coverings.
Its removal should be pressed now, ere the expenditure
of further larg-e sums of money can buy for it the as-
sured permanence of completion.
The question of size is irrelevant to the argument, any-
how, for, as you point out, room can be found for the
station anywhere by land resumptions to the area
required. Of course, to bring the railway to Wynyard
Square would be a costly undertaking, but the end would
justify the expense. The money would assuredly come
back to the community in the long run. And city values
are not likely to get any cheaper as time goes on, while the
really central Central Station must come, sooner or later
—that is inevitable. So why not sooner? Why not now?
I can instance a parallel in the ease of the Caledonian Rail-
way (Scotland). It had two inconvenient, outlying stations
in Glasgow. One section of its line ended in a remote,
inconvenient station up in the north of the city, at the
top of Buchanan-street. Another section ended in the
South-side station in an equally inconvenient situation
south of the river. The Caledonion Co. took the bull by
the front protuberances, and built the present Central
Station right in the heart of Glasgow’s business centre.
The cost was colossal, but it was faced, and when the
station was in working order and had proved itself
“reproductive” (blessed word 0, the directors of the
company, wishful to improve still further the earning
power of their experiment, complemented the terminus
with the erection of the splendid Central Station Hotel,
which, as a source of profit and advertisement to the line
and a real boon to travellers to St. Mungo’s dusky city,
has succeeded far beyond the anticipations of its pro-
moters.
Now, why shouldn’t the N.S.W. State Railways, in
their turn, when they vet their Central Station, swell its
receipts by the addition of a superb Central Station
Hotel, to be “the finest in the Southern Hemisphere”?
(This last phrase will appeal to Mr. O’Sullivan, whose
geese are always, the finest swans “in the Southern
Hemisphere.”) Such a hotel, in such a situation as
W.vnyard Square, in close proximity to wharves,
main tramway lines, theatres, banks, churches,
G.P.0., swagger streets and shops, parks, etc.,
would most certainly command a vogue undreamt-
of, unrealisable by the proprietors of Sydney’s at
present somewhat backward guest-houses. And the
profits resulting- from its establishment would nelp to pay
t he interest due on sums needful to conduct the obsequies
of the immature, blunder-born elephant in its slumful
suburb, and on the money required to carry the Sydney
railway into the city that it is intended to serve. The
experience of most of the leading British railways has
proved the large, connected hotel to be the natural corol-
lary of the important station. So I make this suggestion,
fearing, however, that, as it embodies a perfectly feasible
and honestly “ reproductive ” scheme, it has little chance
of receiving favorable consideration.
Still, wisdom does sometimes crop out in unexpected
quarters, and — dictum sapienti sat est! Mr. O’Sullivan
likes Latin tags. One wishes that he himself would act
up to the principle of the one he fires at you.
♦-
Industrial Disputes in N.S.W.
About a Reform Act which is pining for Reform :
The S. M. Herald printed this item (16/9/’OS): —
“The Premier proposes amendment of the Industrial
Disputes Act, but only so far as the schedule is concerned.
He gave notice in the Legislative Assembly last evening
of his intention to move that persons employed in ore
smelting and refining works be added to the schedule,
and that with respect to the brewing trade the schedule
be altered slightly.”
It suggests that Wade’s sense of discernment needsatten-
tion pretty badly. The N.S. W. Industrial Disputes Act has
been in operation now for nearly three months.' It has
not proved itself the faultless piece of legislation it was
represented to be a while back by Wade and his friends,
who helped to kill the Arbitration Act. In fact, its defects
are marij' and obvious, and if trouble is to be averted
they call for prompt and comprehensive treatment. Its
machinery provisions are hopelessly complicated; the
procedure is over-technical and cumbrous. A grotesquely
large number of Wages Boards looms on the horizon.
Thus the group of industries set out in Schedule I. under
the heading “ Printing,” includes four trades—composi-
tors, machinists, bookbinders and lithographic workers.
They are distinct and separate trades, and they all have
separate unions. An equal number of subdivisions are to
be found in most of the other industries. If—as the Act
as at present constituted requires—a Board is to be
formed and practical representatives found in connec-
tion with each of these different callings, a considerable
portion of the N.S.W. population will be employed shortly
serving on Wages Boards, and a dozen Judges will be
required in place of one.
But the basic weakness of the Act lies deeper than in
surface difficulties of administration. One main weakness
resides in the fact that the general control of refer-
ences to tribunals is not left in the hands of the unions,
but can be, and is freely, meddled with by non-unionists
—a most illogical and inequitable situation. Oneresultis
to delay indefinitely—where such delays strike employers
as being in their own interests—the formation of Boards.
The present position of the Tailors’ Union is a case in
point. The tailoring- trade is notoriously one which lends
itself to sweating. The tailors were knocked out on a
technical point under the Arbitration Act, and they have
been anxious ever since to get some regulation of their
industry. They were among the first to register under
the Industrial Disputes Act. Their union fairly repre-
sents the trade ; it includes now about 1100 men and
women. The Judge heard the union secretary’s appli-
cation, and duly recommended a Board. Later the
secretary brought along a further application for the con-
stitution of a Board. At this stage the employers stepped
in. They got a number of non-unionist tailors to sign a
“round robin.” objecting to the union nominating repre-
sentatives. The Judge was bound to order an election—
and to order it, moreover, throughout the whole State,
despite the fact that the award was only wanted for
Sydney, Newcastle, and one or two other of the large
centres. Ow'ing to this move on the employers’ part,
there is no likelihood of a Board being appointed to con-
sider the case of the Tailors’ Union for months to come.
The fixing of the voting power under the Act pans out
inequitably. Clause 9 (Schedule II.) provides that
unionists may only vote for assessors if they (the unionists)
are financial! By Clause 12 of the same schedule any
non-unionist “ on proof by statutory declaration that
he Ims been engaged in the industry for twelve months
within the previous two years, is entitled to be regis-
tered and to vote’’-whether he happens to be financial
or not. In many trades (the clothing trade, to cite an
example), the work is intermittent. A large proportion
0 f operatives are financial one month and unfinancial
the next. They are unionists, but the fluctuations of
the trade affect their financial position with the union,
And so the Industrial Disputes Act refuses them the
e^cefvable 6- which is about as absurd a situation as is
co^ a testing to note that most of the defects the
anti-Arbitrationists charged against B. R. Wise’s 1901
Act exist in an aggravated form in Wade’s 1908 Act
plus some extra ones the anti-Arbitrationists never
thought of. The decision in ex parte Brown brought the
best work of the old Arbitration Court to a standstill for
a time. The “pointing” that is possible through the
interference of non-unionists in the preliminaries to
legislation under the Industrial Disputes Act is doing the
same by the Wages Boards. Despite the fact that, im-
mediately after the decision in ex parte Brown, scores of
cases which were waiting for trial before the Arbitration
C ' o " , , t p eared from the list, the work became in a
av*? u the fl ß ? ncb " . Hundreds of
?" h ' hon ,? tly L" th ®' h «‘ rte "’ er6
* , “?i ,y Vl^i ea i tened ; eVe /‘ thouffh °!l* of <" he “ haos
who were willing to chance
n ‘ u^ k ;, ■ , Th ®™ w “ n ° h ‘ >pe °. f P ar ' ,es , * fett>l,, * r a
he a > ',ff within months of the d.spute Einployers and
/" those cases where both hankered to get
them difficulties settled raged bitterly, but nothing could
e done , f ° r J* epl " Tha * t wa f the position as set out in
dozens of S. M. Herald and Sydney Telegraph leadersdur-
last year Yet a far more hopeless state of affairs is to
b ® a ' r „ ead >; fou /' d under the newly constituted Wages
U J b " at ' be . Sydney Telegraph showed m a para-
f( ra Ph (!3/9/08) that there will shortly be in existence
about 300 Wages Boards Taking a rough average,”
P a P ei continued blandly, there WI JJ he ® ,x in ® ,n *
hm-s and a chairman comprising each Board or altogether
fi 00 ™ e l , ? bers '. The members can scarcely be offered less
tha " balf - a *4'"£a each per sitting ; and on the average
ea P b i ? ald " ba Y e 3° s'ttingsperannum- some more,
otber s less. On this basis the 300 Wages Boards will in-
x-qqVo7t?U ex P endl * i ,u re b y tbe State, on fees alone, of
A ,U i„ per annun j- . ,
T no . ° n e Judge, nor, for that matter, any three
J, ! d B' eB ! wIU be able i° ha " dle the volume of work that
wd f a v n a e ' -^ bat is the estimate of a partisan journal,
°r e , t , ha . t a couple of months back was the loudest-voiced
a ln its appreciation of the wise provisions of
" e F legislation Wade, when he introduced the
Industrial Disputes Bill, promised reforms from time to
t,,m r as tbe,r need becan ? e a PP are,U ' A , lready hereir ' a
H " ht - V ? x P a "se of possible reform stretches away to the
horizon in front of Wade ; and the general public doesn’t
care bow soon be ® e * ,s to work on it.
Wanted, Majority Rule.
Prime Minister Dkakin, of Australia, might do
worse than take a leaf from the book of Premier
Joe Ward, of Maoriland. With Labor running
a candidate for every seat there is only one thing
certain, and that is that a common enemy will, in
many places, secure the seat on a minority vote,
because the majority vote is split in two. In
Maoriland the rift between the Ministerialist and
Laborite grows wider while you wait, and by
the coming of next election it will be a crevasse
across which no man may cross and live. And,
watching that crevasse grow, the Maoriland Op-
position, which consists of the wreck of the old
Shepherd King and Business People parties,
dreamed vain dreams, and in imagination was
once more fat and bestriding the isles from Cape
Reinga to Cloudy Inlet. Ci vil war was coming
hot foot, and while Laborite and Liberal were in
a death grip Toryism would step on to the vacant
throne. But now the dream has fled, and the
taste in the mouth is of a dead horse, for the
Ward Ministry brought down an Absolute
Majority Bill, which provides for a second ballot
where the winning candidate does not score more
votes than the total against him. The Opposition
was roused to scorn that blistered the collective
tongue of the party, but the scorn made no differ-
ence in the voting. The said Opposition quoted
Labor Minister Millar as a one-time opponent of
the idea, but Millar hit back, and inquired if the
Opposition disbelieved in majority rule. The
Bill has slain the hopes of the Massey party, and
it feels angry and depressed in consequence. On
the other hand, the measure cuts the last cord
which bound the L;»bor and Liberal parties
together; now that a struggle to see which is
really top dog will not let in the mutual enemy
they will fight to a finish. In Australia the
coming election will probably see a Labor man
nominated for every seat except those which are
held by Conservatives whom there is no chance of
shifting, and without an Absolute Majority ballot
the Freetrader and Low-Wage ruffian will walk
into scores of seats while better men kill one
aonther’s chances. Why not have an Australian
Absolute Majority Bill?
“ Bundaberg ”: The labor conditions in the
sugar mills in this Bundaberg district of Queens-
land are bad. Ten- and 12-hour shifts are worked,
and the pay gets down to £1 and 255. a week and
keep. Ten-hour shifts mean 12 hours from home,
as there are two spells. Any overtime is paid for
at only the ordinary rate; and 60 hours must be
worked in the week, or overtime isn’t allowed at
all. It seems hopeless at present to try to
organise the mill worker. The trouble is that he
is very often a hard-up nomad. There is a Sugar
Workers’ Union, certainly, but its members are
mostly cane-cutters and agricultural workers.
The Australian Government is helpless too, it
seems; anyway, it says its power stops as
soon as it has seen that the cane is grown
and harvested by white labor. As for the
State Parliament, it is apparently too weak to
stand up against the sugar kings. The C.S.R.
Co. has made the eight-hour concession in its
refineries, and the same rule applies now to some
of the harder work in its mills; but the Bunda-
berg refinery, which isn’t owned by the C.S.R.,
has not followed suit—the demand evidently
didn’t have strong enough backing. When the
industry settles down to its new conditions, the
class of labor offering will no doubt improve ; and
then organisation will be comparatively easy.
But it is doubtful whether it will settle down
until a continuance of the present rebate-of-excise
on white grown sugar is guaranteed.
♦
The careful preservation of State boundaries and
State jealousies leads to an absurd waste of money
at times. For instance, Minister Solemn Lee, of
the N.S.W. Government, has promised that his
State shall spend a mighty whack of coin on
making a first-class port at Byron Bay, in far
north N.S.W. It will be a very expensive busi-
ness, and, if the luck is as bad as with some other
northern harbors, the usefulness of the new port
will be doubtful. And there is a real port—a
place called Brisbane—not so very far away. But
unfortunately Brisbane is in another State, and
there is an objection to N.S.W. people using it on
that account, and a break is maintained in the
railway to cut off communication lest N.S.W.
trade should go to Brisbane. So there arises a
need for another port. On the other hand, a port
that is really wanted is Twofold Bay, if only the
public could get access to it. It is about halfway
between Sydney and Melbourne, and is the only
decent harbor, bar one, in all that stretch of coast.
Twofold Bay doesn’t require to be made at great
expense; it is already there. But it is almost
useless for want of a railway to connect it with
Monaro and Riverina, and the fear that a Federal
capital may happen thereabouts has made it so
unpopular for years past that the N.S.W. State
Government would do nothing for it. So one
small local jealousy involves the making of a port
where there isn’t any port, and another cuts off
the public from the use of a port where there is
a port, and the small local jealousy is an unpay-
able business all round.
-4*. %
In an article criticising the Bent land-tax pro-
proposals the Melbourne Argus, after bursting
into tears over some of the provisions of the
measure, wails bitterly :
Too much harm has already been done by forcing the
pace.
Somebody has evidently been smacking the poor
thing real hard lately. Several months ago the
Argus was quite flippant over the prospect of a
land-tax, and spoke severely to the squatters for
keeping their land locked up. But something
has since occurred that has brought the paper
bad? to its old state of nervous cluttering opposi-
tion to progress. And with a shaky pen it is
endeavoring, as well as it knows how, to impede
all forward movements :
We have no guarantee, either from argument or experi-
ence, that the imposition of a special burden upon large
landowners will necessarily lead to the settlement of a
thriving population of farmers.
Evidently the Argus has never heard of Maori-
land, and knows nothing about Seddon’s famous
“bursting-up” Land Acts. Waving her brolly
bravely, the old lady continues :
In the event of the landowner refusing to shift from
under the load of a tax, no good would be done to any-
body. Money to the amount of the tax would certainly
be taken out of his pockets, money which would have
been spent in developing his property—perhaps, as in
some cases in the Western District, in 'making “model”
improvements for the use of the tenants.
The last clause is a gem. Certainly some of the
squatters do make improvements; but they charge
the unfortunate tenant from 7 to 10 per cent, on
their cost—in addition, of course, to the rent.
And the spectacle of the squatter resolutely
shouldering the load of new taxation rather than
leave off making beautiful improvements for his
tenants is magnificent.
Some more of the people who vote Anti-Sosh
every chance they get turned up at the N.S.W.
Chief Secretary’s office the other day to assure the
Minister that their policy is a rank duffer. Some
years ago, as anybody who liked could call herself
a nurse, a number of doctors promoted the Aus-
tralasian Trained Nurses’ Association, so that
people who wanted the trained article could be •
sure of getting her. They have been trying that
plan for some, years, but find that it doesn’t work ;
so the Association rolled up the other day and
asked the State to take the job in hand, put some
sort of a brand on the competent nurse, and stop
any other person from calling herself by the name.
Chief-Secretary Wood said he would think over it,
though he reckoned that vested rights might be
a pretty high obstacle to crawl over and a pretty
large one to crawl round. But this dread of
treading on the toes of vested rights gets rather
painful. Practically it means that in a case of
this sort the incompetent person, who has been
helping to kill people for a great many years,
shouldn’t be interfered with, her long experience
at killing people having given her a right to goon
doing it till somebody equally incompetent helps
to kill her.
♦
State Premier Wade has formally invited
the N.S.W. Legislature to approve of his
wretchedly unpatriotic attitude re the division of
the tariff revenue, and the Legislature hasn’t yet
produced the good Australian who has language
fit to meet such a case. A man who had gone in
early life to a bullock-driving college and taken
his degree there, and who had afterwards devoted
himself to Domain oratory, and had also been
first mate on a leaky whaler, might have the flow
of eloquence that the occasion calls for; but no
such individual is at hand. There is nothing of
the sportsman about G. Wade. He likes a safe
thing, and doesn’t believe in taking risks, and at
the same time he wants all the profits that come
of taking risks. He doesn’t propose that the
States and the Commonwealth shall share good
and bad fortune together; he demands that the
States shall be guaranteed a huge annual subsidy in
any case, and that in addition they shall have a first
mortgage on what money is left. It would be in-
teresting to go into a business partnership with
Gregory Wade. His proposals, judging by his
attitude over the present political partnership
business, would be something like this: (1) G.
Wade to always receive £7OO a year out of the
profits whether there are any profits or not; (2)
G. Wade to have half what profits are left over
and above the £7OO a year ; (3) G. Wade’s partner
to have any profits that remain after G. Wade
has received tire above ; (4) G. Wade’s partner to
find the profits. There is a grievous lack of the
sporting instinct about a peroon who wants such
a safe thing as that. He suggests an individual
who would shoot the domestic lien in her sleep.
: * —
The Victorian State Government survived the
recent motion of censure, but that fact doesn’t make
things look any better than they did before. The
trouble is about a question of tenders for plant,
etc. When machinery and suchlike things are
wanted, this surprising Government, it is alleged,
occasionally gives way to a habit of not specifying
exactly what it wants and then accepting the best
offer for the thing, but of asking tenderers to sug-
gest some sort of old machine that they think will
fill the bill, and to mention a price. This makes
many things possible. If someone offers a SOOhorse-
power Bodgers pumping machine for £lO,OOO,
and someone else offers a 600 horse-power Jobson
pumping plantfor £7OOO, there is always room under
such a system (supposing anyone feels that way)
to accept the weaker Bodgers machine at £3OOO
extra, on the ground that it uses less fuel, or is
more easily repaired, or lasts longer, or some-
thing. Experts may furiously deny these things,
and say that the Bodgers machine is not only
feeble and dear, but hopelessly out of date ; the
persops*in authority can simply reply that they go
by their own knowledge and experience, and are
doing their best in the interests of the country.
The system may save the department some work
in the way of drawing up specifications, etc.; but
it is liable to arouse most unpleasant suspicions.
And when it becomes a matter, under this weird
method, of paying more for an imported article
than for one of local manufacture, and also releasing
the importing person from the penalties specified
in the contract for delay in delivery—penalties that
would apparently hold good against the local
manufacturer—both of which events are said to
have happened in one case, a large section of the
community reckons that it has a grievance against
the Bent Government.
“F.C.”: I reckon there is just now a loud
call for some hasty and ill-mannered person in the
Australian Parliament to pass a few remarks,
accompanied by a dirty left if necessary, to
Thomas Bent. From the depths of his alleged
brain Adolphus has been delivered of an idea
that he has but to ask the Asquith Government
to send out here a fleet of battleships, and it will
do so iustanter. Also he dwells lovingly on a
notion that obsesses him that a combined fleet, con-
tributed by Canada, the United States (!), Britain,
Australia and Maoriland, would police the Pacific
adequately and prove to be Australia’s best sal-
vation. In charity one may suppose Adolphus
to be making a very poor joke, otherwise he
must know that the U.S. is about the last
country on earth to work and fight hand-
in-glove with Britain, and vice versa even
more so ; that half-a-dozen warships fooling about
the Canadian-Pacific coast would not serve to
keep a solitary Chow from landing on the North
Australian coast; and that it isn’t his business,
anyhow, or any other State Premier’s either.
Adolphus’ present business, which the State has
been waiting too long for him to tackle, is to get
the lands of the State opened up and settled.
Wherefore, there is a loud call for some brutally
frank person to tell Bent to do his own work and
leave alone things he isn’t competent to under-
take.
♦
“Chasselas” from the Victorian Western Dis-
trict :
The Bulletin (20/8/’08) is responsible for the startling
statement that Bent resumed two estates in the vicinity
of Willaura (Vic.). Bent never did anything so useful in
his political life, even when he was plain Tom, our ram-
paging comic performer of many parts. Now he lias
changed to Adolphus, and the outlook is less promising
than ever.
Willaura’s prosperity and the initial cutting up was
begun by VV. J. Austin, of Greenvale. When old pioneer
Josiah Austin passed out, there were heavy encum-
brances, and blistering years of drought and low prices
accentuated the ruin, and placed this and several other
estates on the market. Amongst them was Lake Bolac.
It was purchased by a gentleman who afterwards
died in Sydney. He cut up the estate and sold it
to the starved-outMallee farmers on splendid terms and
long payments, with little or no cash down, and realised
100 per cent, on his deal, besides placing a number of
farmers on the land at a price that makes permanence
possible.
Concerning Mount William, this was let to other
starved-out Mallee farmers on a five years’ lease at from
10s. to 12s. 6d. an acre, and these tenants, after paying
about £3 an acre in rent, have mostly drifted
away to other States to form homes for them-
selves. Deputation after deputation of these tenants
waited on the Government to induce it to purchase
the estate for Closer Settlement, but Adolphus whs silent.
Later the property was purchased by a Hamilton syndi-
cate, with one of Bent’s prominent supporters as a mem-
ber. Roughly speaking there are about 11,000 acres less
under cultivation on this estate than last year. Mean-
while the syndicate has raised the price of the land to £8
per acre, and speculators are busy inflating prices still
higher.
Edgarly, the other estate at the back door of Willaura,
has a benevolent land tenure known locally as “ the Bag
to the Acre Racket.” This is a rough copy of Penny
Manifold's idea applied to wheat-growing. The tenant
agrees to deliver, duly bagged, at the local railway station,
4J bushels of wheat for every acre he cultivates. In one
case this is how the system panned out. Out of 380 bags
of wheat grown, the landlord collared 192. On last year’s
prices the agreement raked in almost £1 an acre, the
landlord also having the use of the farmer’s stubble to
tide his sheep over the worst months of the year. This
laud pays in land-tax and municipal rates combim d less
than 4jd. an acre, and Bent has had the fact hammered
into his head by deputation after deputation of farmers
anxious to get on the land. If something solid does not
strike the Victorian Western District in the shape of a
graduated land-tax and compulsory land resumption, the
landlord and the syndicating vampire will soon stick Wil-
laura’s new* prosperity as dry as the back door of Sheol.
+.
The bill is a horribly unpopular part of nearly
every drunk. But it has to be paid every
time. A while ago J. B. Trivett, the N.S.W.
Government Actuary, made a valuation of all the
State’s friendly societies, and found out that they
have a net deficiency of £271,620. That is to say,
they have undertaken to pay £271,620 more than
they have any hope of being able to do if the
future tuppence won’t stretch farther than the old
tuppence. Into such a shocking state have some
of these societies fallen through having had
too riotous a time hitherto that in one
case the present assets and future contribu-
tions will only provide 11s. 5d., and in another
case only 11s. 6d. in the £ of their liabilities.
And now, when Trivett reports these things,
and calls on the societies to knock off taking
money under false pretences, there is a combined
plea from the friendly societies—won’t he allow
the old drift to continue for a few years longer?
It is some satisfaction to know that there was no
hedging about Trivett’s reply; first, he said
he couldn’t hang up the matter if he would; and,
secondly, he wouldn’t if he could. "‘Pay up!”
he says. “Remove the great cause, the inade-
quate contributions of the old members.” Already
some societies have accepted the inevitable, and
The Strenuous Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As we have often said, State Governors do a great deal
of really hard work, and work, moreover, thar, has to be
done.—S. M. Herald leader (17<9/’08) advocating the con-
tinuance of the imported Governor system.
At nine a.m. the weary round begins.
A footman carries him his morning tea
(Or morning whisky, as the case may be),
A valet runs his bath in, and while he
(The Governor) gets washed, trained experts see
His underclothes are aired, and free from pins.
Ten strikes. The time has come for breakfast; all
Follow the Toiler to the festive board.
With thoughtful bow he causes to be poured
Tea (if not coffee); bacon from the hoard
Of fried comestibles is served. An awed
Hush reigns as Duty yields to Hunger’s call.
The last cup’s drained, the bacon’s lost its zest,
Jam smears the plates which erst gleamed clean
and bright,
He who personifies the Empire’s might
Calls for cigars, and also for a light,
And settles for a smoke. (It is but right
That after work should come a spell of rest.)
Lunch is at half-past one each working day ;
It lasts till three, when Ministers arrive.
A pleasant chat ensues. Tea’s served at five ;
Then, with his staff, his Ex. enjoys a drive —
A trivial boon for people who contrive
Daily to steer the State the proper way.
At eight comes Dinner—an august affair,
Whereat the Throne, the local Blood, the Flag
And Empire, in (as ’twere) a social bag
Are piled together, like so much loose slag,
And welded in a food and liquor “jag.”
This feat the Gov. perforins beyond compare.
And so his long day closes. Dull of brain
At twelve, or thereabouts, he goes to bed
Chirurgeons flock with towels for his head,
And draughts, in use by persons nearly dead.
Assuming that the vital spark’s not fled,
He wakes next day and starts all o’er again.
N.s.w.
J.P.


Hope for the
DEAF
If vou suffer from Deafness, Head-noises, Ring-
iugin the Kars, or any other Ear disease, and desire
a complete and permanent cure, write at once to
Hie lAROSCOPE INSTITUTE, 90 Pitt St., Sydney,
N.S.W., for a free pamphlet, fully describing an
entirely new. self-applied method, which will be
sent to you gratis on mentioning this paper.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are Headquarters for above, and represent
the Greatest Makers of the World. We have
an Extensive Stock to selecr, from.
NEW FILM SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
Write or call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
More good fruit in the tariff crop is announced
in the Continental Tyre Co. having opened a factory in
Melbourne. The sowing of the tariff seed was by no
means as scientific and satisfactory as it should have
been. But being, although incomplete, of the right
kind, it has proved a good argument in persuading many
importers to manufacture their goods in Australia. The
Continental Tyre Co. is to be congratulated upon itsenter-
prise and good sense, and welcomed with open arms by
all good Australians, who are assured that industrial self-
development is the securest foundation of a nation’s
prosperity and progress.*
members are being made to pay up. Others look
at the job and conclude that it is almost
too big to tackle now. But it all leaves an
uneasy feeling about some life insurance concerns.
If societies as big and old-established and repu-
tedly well-managed as some of these have got into
a bog of this depth, what are the chances that a
few of the insurance concerns in these wildly
competitive days would come out of a Government
examination showing 20s. in the £ ?
Standard Oil.
Disappointed at not getting any Protection
worth mentioning when the tariff was being
arranged, those who have the N.S.W. mineral oil
business in hand are asking Parliament to give
some help through a bonus —the particular plan
for assisting infant industries against which the
Freetraders find that their conscience doesn’t
rebel. Years ago, before the Standard Oil Trust
was the organised power it is to-day, N.S.W. pro-
duced its own brand of “ Southern Cross ” kero-
sene from its own vast deposits of kerosene shale,
and for many years “Freetrade” and other
Governments helped the shale industry with a
small duty. Now, however, when Protection
is more greatly needed than ever it was, on
account of the character of the foreign
competition, Parliament baulked at even giving
Protection to oil brought here in cases. That the
industry is in great danger of petering out unless
the Commonwealth comes to its aid was very
pointedly suggested by the long years during
which the old Shale and Oil Co. worked without
paying a dividend or making any net profit what-
ever. Absorbing that co. came the Commonwealth
Oil Corporation, a concern with considerable re-
sources ; but so far it has simply spent vast sums
of money in finding out that enormous and un-
expected difficulties stand between it and success.
Its foreign competitors seem to have thoroughly
grasped the fact that, in order to prevent it ever
turning out great quantities of kerosene, the best
plan is to fight it in the markets for the products
which it naturally puts on the market first —lubri-
cating, solar and similar oils. The question now
is whether the Commonwealth is going to let the
fight end in the only way that a fight is likely to
end when the Standard Oil Trust is on one side
and some comparatively small Anglo-Australian
concern stands alone on the other side. In plain
words, whether the Commonwealth is going to
give itself over to the Standard Oil Trust. There
should be only one possible answer to such a
proposition.
«
Concerning a Noxious Trade.
The recent Christian Endeavor Convention dis-
tinguished itself by presenting to the N.S.W.
Parliament a petition for the preservation of the
bookmaker’s trade. That is what the protest
against the Totalisator Bill—signed, at the
instance of a few misguided clerics, by several
thousands of children—amounted to. The attitude
that the fanatic parsons take up in this matter is
baffling to the normal-minded citizen. There is a
visible gambling evil in the Commonwealth.
Directly and indirectly it produces almost
as many tragedies as the Derrink itself.
It causes weak-minded people to embezzle
and do other dastardly and foolish acts.
Over and over again have the Quarter Sessions
afforded the local anti-gaming cleric a text for
fulminating against the vice of putting undue
quantities of money on quadrupeds. There is no
reason to think that, given equal conditions, this
is a social failing whereby Australians are more
afflicted as a race than are (say) Maorilanders or
Frenchmen. Yet a consideration of the law
reports in a M.L. or a French da ; ly paper suggests
that for every citizen who pleads horse losses as
an excuse for bankruptcy, or in extenuation of
theft, forgery, or what not abroad, a round half-
dozen put forward the frayed old excuse here.
The reason is plain to anyone who compares the
pari-mutuel system of betting that is general on
racecourses abroad with the bookmaker system
that obtains in Australia. It is impossible with
the totalisator in operation to “gamble” in the
true acceptation of the term. The odds on the
different horses shorten automatically with each
coin that goes into the machine, and it takes little
money to make the odds so brief as to be hardly
worth while. This tears the heart and spirit out
of your true gambler. His life’s aim is to get the
biggest sum at his command on to a likely animal
at a satisfactory rate. When the ready-money
backer has had a losing week or two the need for
a “punch” of this sort becomes urgent. If he is
a man of some means he goes to his bank or to a
pawnbroker for the wherewithal ; if he is, con-
trariwise, a poor man, he journeys too often
to someone else’s till. The bookmaker’s prices
don't ' necessarily shorten automatically because
a large sum of public money has gone on
a horse. He knows more than any totalisa-
tor, and is prepared to accept all the
money that is poured into his bag—in connection
with certain horses. Which makes for high and ,
desperate gaming, rich bookmakers, stiffened
horses, terms of penal servitude, suicides, rifled
safes, and other undesirable phenomena. When
the pari-mutuel was first introduced to the race-
courses around Paris, the bookmakers were
allowed on the courses, but they were forbidden
to cry the odds or otherwise advertise their
whereabouts. They stood in silence near a
fence and handed clients the odds they were offer-
ing written on slips of paper. Though their busi-
ness was hampered a little at first, the true-blue
gambler soon grasped the situation and
“plunged” with the books as of yore.
The authorities realised their mistake, and
warned the pencillers off the courses alto-
gether. The shout of anguish that went
up from the gambling fraternity was in-
structive. The frank complaint was advanced by
sporting papers in both countries that the sum
possible to be wagered by the tote system was
“so paltry as not to justify a man paying his train
fare and entrance money to a racecourse to get it
on.” The Paris Sport, the leading sporting daily
in France, pointed out that the new legislation
would drive owners out of the country, since the
imposition of a couple of ten-pound notes on any
given horse’s chance was liable to bring it to
level money in the betting. The fact that King
Edward VII., during a visit to Longchamps,
brought one of W. K. Vanderbilt’s horses
to an odds-on chance by putting £25 into the
pari-mutuel for it, was advanced as a
deadly argument on behalf of bookmaking
and against the “nursery play” of the pari-
mutuel.. In a word, there was frank admission on
all sides that the totalisator system was fatal to
hard gambling. And so it is, which fact is
apparent nowadays to all but Christian En-
deavor parsons and small children. With the help
of the spiritual leaders of the ultra-religious sec-
tion of this community there is a strong likelihood
of the extremely desirable Totalisator Bill, now
before Parliament, being rejected. If so, it will
be another melancholy instance of the damage a
few well-meaning asses can do in a community of
rational people.
4.
It was on Monday that N.S.W. State Premier
Wade issued his glaring misrepresentation or
falsehood or whatever anyone likes to call it, re the
Dalgety Federal capital water supply, and on
Tuesday morning the S. M. Herald and Tele-
graph both clutched at it eagerly in their leader
columns. Said the Telegraph :
In calling attention to the fact that it is not the Snowy
River, but the Mowambah, that is relied upon to supply
water to the Dalgety Federal capital site, Mr. Wads gives
a reminder which is likely to prove of public utility, in
view of the ingenious assiduity with which the Snowy and
this site have been presented, linked, as representing
unapproachable capital perfection. Four or five years
ago the Federal Commissioners on Sites made this fairly
clear, by showing that water must be obtained from the
Mowambah. . . . Mr. Wade goes further . . . his reason
for excluding the Snowy being that the settlement along
its banks causes a danger of pollution which debars the
river from consideration.
Also the S. M. Herald :
Mr. Wade has done a.service in making public the re-
port he has had prepared on the Canberra and Dalgety
water supplies,... The utmost advertising use has been
made of the Snowy River, undeniably a fine stream, but
the fact seems to have been prudently kept out of sight
that it is not the noble and much-photographed Snowy
River which would have to be relied on for the supply of
the capital city, but the much humbler Mowambah. In
the report which Mr. Wade now presents, it is shown that
the Mowambah, while no dottbt adequate for all pur-
poses, is nevertheless not so good a stream as the Cotter,
which would serve the Canberra site.
It seems beyond belief that these papers didn’t
know that they were circulating lies pure and
simple, but apparently they don’t mind what they
circulate. The alleged “ settlement along
the banks” of the Snowy is three-fourths
of a lie; there are about six or a dozen
houses all told, and they could all be
bought up and removed very cheaply. The
alleged pollution of the Snowy water is
so complete a falsehood that District-
Surveyor Scrivener recommended that a
water supply should be drawn from the
Snowy vrithin a mile of the city site, on
the ground that the water was “uncon-
tarninated,” and the Royal Commission
on Sites deliberately recommended the
•Snowy as one source of supply. The
alleged dependence on the Mowambah for
a water supply is a deliberate lie ; the
Commission on Sites said there were four
rivers available and suitable —the Snowy,
Mowamba, Eucumbene and Crackenback.
And the alleged discovery of an amazing
supply of water in Cotter Creek may be
true or it may not —but, if it is as true
as the rest of the statements, then it is a
fair inference that Cotter Creek is quite
dry just now. And the Telegraph and
Herald, like Wade himself, carefully
avoid all mention of the fact that the
Snowy River site is recommended quite as much
because of the splendid supply of cheap power it
will yield as for its drinking qualities. With all
their stupendous effrontery they don’t dare to say
that the Cotter Trickle amounts to a row of pins
as a power supply.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “ Peter Pan.”
Criterion “ The Belle of Mayfair.”
Palace “Charley’s Aunt.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatreseope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
rr.__.„ u... j Ada Orosslev Concert Co.
Town Hall (oct . i and 3.)
Y.M.C.A. Hall Grand Vocal Recital (Sept. 29).
Queen’s Hall Moving' Pictures.
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Red Mill.”
Her Majesty’s “ Taming of the Shrew.”
Theatre Royal “The Lily of Killarney.”
King’s “The Gayest of the Gay.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Bijou “ Mrs. Lee’s Lodgers.”
Town Hall The Cherniavskis.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
+ .
“The Belle of Mayfair,” which was pro-
duced at Sydney Criterion on Saturday night last,
is a London variety show with the “ turns” bound
together by a spun-silk tie of love-interest. All
modern pieces of the “Belle” and “Girl” type
are music-hall shows. They differ as the attach-
ment which brings the performances of their prin-
cipals into relation is weak or very weak. In the
new Criterion production the bond is about the
frailest yet seen ; and the doings of the chief
characters are irresponsible enough for a subur-
ban town council. No one does anything for
any particular reason, but at various stages
talented artists supply solos and duets, glees,
patter dialogues, monologues and dances.
In many of these items the conventions
of the old-time musical comedy are hurled aside
with great effect. When William Cromwell
affects, during a comic love ditty, to be enamored
of a young woman in the stalls the audience is
charmed ; and when he turns from her and pays
his addresses to one Liza in the gallery the house
yells its jov. It recalls to his hearers many a
merry night at Rickards’ or the “ Amphi,” The
Criterion stars shine to the accompaniment of
bright and tuneful music, and at short intervals
the fine chorus wanders on and sings something
pleasant and attractive. It is all very vague and
very pleasing, and it occurs in a couple of the
most picturesque settings the Criterion has known
in recent years.
* * • •
Roland Bottoinley, as Raymond, son of
the Earl of Mount Highgate (who is that old
favorite, .T. B. Atholwood), loves Grade Sinclaire,
who represents Julia, the daughter of Sir John
Chaldicott (Edwin Brett). The extreme and
offensive hauteur of Raymond’s male parent has
got on the nerves of Chaldicott, who is the usual
incredible lunatic that musical comedy librettists
are wont to present as “aself-made man.” He
will have none of Raymond as a son-in-law.
The antics of the two oldsters delay the
young people’s happiness till near the end,
when both suddenly become more or less sane,
and consent to the marriage of their offspring.
That is the plot in its entirety. Ruth Lincoln as
a princess, William Cromwell as a philosopher -
dude (with a reprehensible taste for disinterring
dead epigrams), and a bishop have a word or two
between songs on the subject of the Roland-Gracie
affair. But they hardly matter so far as the
action of the piece is concerned.
* * * *
The star artist on the bill is Ruth Lincoln.
She comes within close call of being a genuine
comic-opera prima donna. In “ The Weeping
Willow Wept” item she uses her sweet and
cultivated voice with fine discretion, and gets
a chance as well to express her pleasant per-
sonality. Gracie Sinclaire, whom the manage-
ment imported expressly to play the Belle, proves
to be a winsome and delightfully pretty little
lady. But in the matter of'talent we have local
maidens capable of giving her points. There is
no notable distinction either about her singing or
her dancing. As Sir John Chaldicott, Edwin
Brett wanders at large among groves of spreading
chestnut trees and tears the mature fruit there-
from, and with the same hits the audience hard
and often. This mime is a genuine humorist, in
asmuch as whatever he says has a way o-
being fairly funny. Even if the matter off
his gags is old (as it often is), yet he
delivers it always in a fresh and taking
manner. J. B. Athol wood gives an excellent
character-sketch of the choleric Earl, who writhes
inarticulately under the insults of his enemy till
three-quarters of a minute before the final curtain.
Roland Bottomley sings tunefully and acts with
vigor as Raymond, and there are others in the big
programme who may call for a word next week.
** * *
“ The Private Secretary” is dying cheer-
fully at Sydney Palace. The last week of the
pathetic and crinkled and laughter-making parson
is announced, and next Saturday night “ Charley’s
Aunt ” will suffer revival. Thornton plays Lord
Eancourt Babberly, and Sydney will once again
learn where certain nuts come from.
* * * *-
The reception to be given to Ada
Crossley and co. will be on a colossal scale.
It occurs at Sydney Town Hall. All mem-
bers and subscribers of the various musical
societies are being bidden along. The engage-
ment of young Harold Whittle, the Sydney
pianist, as accompanist for the Crossley season is,
THE LESS OF TWO EVILS.
Mr. Gt. H. Reid, M.H.R., says he will urge his friends to
allow him to resign the leadership.
IRVINE, FORREST AND Co. : “ Look ’ere, Cap'en,
we’re gointer throw yous overboard!”
GREID: "O. my dear friends, let me entreat you
to allow me to resign.”
when put in journalese language, a signal honor
for the young man. He did the work for
Melba on her last visit, and as he has
already been re-engaged for the soprano’s
next Australasian tour, his will be astiddy job
now right up to Christmas twelvemonths. Next to
the contralto herself Percy Grainger, the pianist,
is best known to Australians (for, like Crossley,
he is a Victorian), and he is as well and admir-
ingly known to English and foreign audiences as
the Ada star herself. He has an extraordinary
gift of acquiring languages. He gathers them
and stows them away as off-handedly as a squirrel
gets nuts for winter reserves. His collection of
dried and bottled languages is wonderful. Ice-
landic, Norwegian and Danish are three of his
out-of-the-way acquisitions, and at present he is
grafting at Gaelic. The principal use to which he
puts his gift of tongues is to pursue the folk songs of
the various countries to their native huts and bag
them, words and airs. Sametini, the violinist of
the eo., was a pupil of Sevcik. He took the
highest diploma the Prague Conservatoire (or
whatever name the musical tribunal in Bohemia’s
capital is known by) had in stock, and he was the
youngest youth who ever captured, arrested, or
bagged the document. The Queen of Holland
paid for his tuition out of her private purse.
Also Harrison and Earle, the two he-singers of
the gifted combination, are not flowers who have
hloomed unseen or unknown. The wholo melo-
dious conspiracy will give its first concert on
Thursday, October 1.
** & #
“Peter Pan” ceases from the pleasant
poetry of its way, at Sydnev Royal, on Friday of
next week. After that, the advt. says darkly,
“See Important Announcement in Wednesday’s
papers.” The Bulletin was in a hurry, and
didn’t wait for the “ Important Announcement.”
* * *
West’s Pictures soon go into summer
quarters at the Sydney Glaciarium. Meantime
they have a gaudy time at the Town Hall on
Saturday evenings, when a lot of foreign travel is
done while you sit. Also you see a dignified
citizen falling over a barrow, or half a city of
people and half a myriad of dogs turn out in pur-
suit of a boy who has stolen a tart. “ The Show-
man’s Wife” is a new film and a considerable
inducement to a number of Sydney folk to go in
and hold down chairs.
Miss Hazy is hanging the crape on the
door-knob for the last few times at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), and Stubbins is returning unexpectedly
under the fatal fascination of the Cabbage Patch
pies. Altogether “ Mrs. Wiggs” has had a most
successful season, and J.C.W. can very well afford
to shout Stubbins an extra drink and pay half
the wages of a cook for him for the rest of his life.
Friday night the last cabbage will be torn up, and
the final caterpillar will have to take to the track,
for their won’t be room for either cabbages or
caterpillars on the stage when “The Merry
Widow ” bounces in on Saturday night. Judging
by the advanced booking, there won’t be room for
even a crushed worm in the stalls or the circle
either.
** * *
The cinematograph: representation of
Marcus Clarke’s “ For the Term of His Natural
Life” at Sydney Queen’s Hall is now in its
seventh week, and shows no signs of deterioration
in either quality or popularity. All the same,
those who have not seen it should go at once, as the
historic drama is now in its final nights and will
shortly start on tour.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli’s new first part, “ A Palace
of Cards,” is a sort of solemn review of a number
of ladies in evening dress who march a consider-
able distance about the stage and perform intri-
cate evolutions with more than military precision.
There is iro suggestion of levity about the pro-
ceeding ; the ladies form fours, wheel, advance
and retreat in time to the music like a regiment
of Amazons on parade. A song, or battle hymn,
is sung with impressive effect, and when the exer-
cise has concluded the regiment sits down amidst
a reverential sprinkle of applause. Abdullah’s
Arabs are still the big draw of the programme,
and the pulse of the audience quickens perceptibly
when the signboard of the turn is displayed. A
refreshing feature of their performance is the
absence of the monotonous hand-waving and
graceful skipping of the usual stage gymnast.
The Arabs smile as they somersault, and, while
the audience is applauding the fifteenth amazing
feat, the sixteenth is half-way through. The
Meymotts, Burt Shepard, Austin Rudd, the
Barnard Family, and Fanny Powers supply the
rest of the entertainment.
** # *
Adelaide is still under the grip of the
moving picture, but it soon had enough of the
Fleet, “clothed in white Uncle Samite, mystic,
wonderful ” (Tennyson), and has rushed the films
of two gentlemen clothed in nothing-much, pound-
ing each other. Fighting in this form is singu-
larly unsatisfactory. The men are natural, and
therefore, by a well-known stage law, do not look
so. Two quite moderate actors could put up a
fight for exhibition purposes that would show ten
times as well. For one thing, they would .stand
off picturesquely, and not hug. Also, a man
knocked down would go over backwards, not slip
to his knees as if he were tired. Julius Knight
finished at the Royal with a flourish of
revolvers in “The Prisoner of Zenda,” and of sabres
in “The Royal Divorce,” which latter work of
imagination cuts history into little bits. Now
Harcourt Beatty has come in, with Miss Madge
Mclntosh and Gaston Mervale. The rapier is
the weapon that the “Beggar on Horseback”
prefers for homicidal purposes. The Liedertafel
has celebrated its jubilee with song and banquet.
It has some strong singing rivals now, but in 1858
it was the only body of its kind in Adelaide. The
Tivoli and the Pavilion and the Olympia rink are
continuing much as before, and Maskelyne’s
mysteries at the Town Hall are a shade more
mysterious than they used to be.
The opera company at Melbourne Royal,
which was anything but a record-beater in “Les
Cloches,” showed itself to far better advantage in
•’The Lily of Killarney ” last Saturday. It would
seem that the imported members of the co. (bar-
ring Miss Gastelle, who has no part in the present
production) were chosen for “The Lily.” The
prices of admission at the Royal are “ popular,”
and this entertainment deserves a full measure of
popularity at the prices. There are some charm-
ing effects in it, together with many that are more
than good enough, and others that reduce the
average considerably. But, inasmuch as the
fashion of Julius Benedict’s work is 45 years old,
and was not quite the common fashion in ballad
opera when it was introduced, and the music is
too thin for them who talk Beethoven and wor-
ship Wagner, and too good for the multitude whose
yearnings for melody have not carried them be-
yond “The Old Bull and Bush,” the present writer
fears that “ The Lily of Killarney” will get less
than its deserts at the pay boxes.
THE LILY OF KILLARNEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Shure, the giddy Hardress Cregan
Had the morals of a Pagan ;
As a husband and a lover he was somewhat of a
brute;
Bedad ! he acted vilely
To his lawful little Eily
When he thought to throw her over for a toney
gal named Chute.
He met this one at dances,
And he fired his tender glances
At her simple young affections till he fairly shot
the chute.
Both were swate as garden honey,
But the toney gal had money.
Which Hardress hoped to borrow for his haughty
mother’s sake.
Thrue, he didn’t plan a murder,
But he wished his Eily furder,
So Danny Mann, begorra ! flung the colleen in the
lake —
In the lake of fair Killarney,
Where he’d lured her wid his blarney.
(Why do colleens ever listen to the loies that vil-
lains spake ?)
When the giddy Hardress shedding
Silent tears upon his wedding
Would have hugged the heiress supple to his
bigamistie breast,
Lo ! the wife he thought was drownded,
Proved the rumor quite unfounded.
And the reunited couple did their happiness pro-
test.
They gave excited voicings
To their mu-tu-al rejoicings;
Yes, they sang a lot together, and the chorus sang
the rest.
VIC.
E. FISHER.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
The OLDEST MUTUAL
Lowest Rates Charged.
■ !
- -—j
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
and ONLY EIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
«. HOWARD POPS, Manager. '
CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jordan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
What is now the weakness of the libretto
was originally its virtue. Boucicault’s “Colleen
Bawn ’ was the first of Irish “sensational”
dramas—the term had not previously had a stage
application. Nobody had ever thought of calling
Hamlet,” for instance, a sensational drama,
though it abounds in corpses and ghosts. “Col-
leen Bawn ” struck the keynote for future bellow-
drama, and “ Lily of Killarney ” almost imme-
diately put the new idea to music. The
orchestration was not conspicuously attenuated at
that time, nor did thetumty-tum accompaniments
to the dialogue seem lacking in serious signifi-
cance ; whereas nowadays the punctuation of old,
familiar lines and situations with dots and dashes
of music conveys an impression of burlesque. The
performance had to be artistic in the main, or it
would have failed to interest the audience on
Saturday. One of the principals—the tall, comely
lady who pretended to be the burly hero’s mother
—was feeble both in singing and acting, and when
sue cried “ Hold ! he is innocent,” etc., her agita-
tlo” was received with loud smiles. All the vocal
and dramatic strength of the co. is on the male side,
the ladies being chiefly commendable for good
looks. Miss Aiieen Hodgson, indeed, is about
the daintiest little Colleen Bawn this country has
seen since Nina Boucicault. But she puts no
force into her acting, nor is there any natural
music in her voice. The voice is big enough, and
well enough trained—that’s all. Miss Buckmann,
as Anne Chute, is another nice girl, with a little
more tone and less vocal art than the other. Of
the men who appeared in “Les Cloches” the
burly silvery baritone (Wilson Pembroke) reveals
himself this time as Hardress Cregan, a fully cer-
tificated tenor robusto, and in his duet with the
invisible Danny he “knocks” his hearers very
hard. Also his “Eilv Mavourneen” is a fine
rendering of that estimable ballad. As for his
acting, it is marked by a proper sense of his
shortcomings in the pictorial department. Mac-
naughton Duncan, the Gaspard of the previous
°P era ' turns out to be a capital Mr. Corrigan in
rev?’ w^s * : e light tenor who breaks into falsetto
(Ldwart Wynn) makes a pleasant, highly genteel
Myles-na-Coppaleen, and scoies one of the four
singing hits of the evening wi h a serenade in the
third act. Jay Ryan, the .1 anny Mann, made
# S u k a PP ea rance on Saturday. He has a voice
of the basso-versatilo order, which carries him
high and takes him low and lends itself to dra-
matic expression. Before Danny Mann quite
decides to dispose of the Colleen Bawn he argues
the question in recitative, and vents his feelings in
a beautiful air. If ever this part of the opera was
better treated in the long ago there must have
been giants in those days. Judged by a modern
standard of comparison, Jay Ryan, singing
“Heaven formed in her a jewel rare, shall I the
gem destroy ? ” seems an exceptionally good man
for such music and words. Probably he is quite a
boshter in the part.
» -:k- *
Concerning “The Red Mill,” at Melbourne
Princess’s, this paper remarks that the sun will go
down upon the Burgomaster’s wrath for only one
more week, and that next Wednesday will be the
last matinee occasion of the crimson glow which
glorifies the parental anger aforesaid. The same
statement of dates applies also to “Mrs. Lee’s
Lodgers,” at the Bijou, Their fitful lodgments
will be discontinued after Friday, October 2, and
on the following night Miss Baines will revive
“ Miss Lancashire, Ltd.”
** & *
Miss Sumner Locke, whose comedy-drama,
“ The Vicissitudes of Vivienne,” will be matineed
at Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday, can claim
the distinction of being the first Australian girl to
get herself seriously considered as a playwright.
Melbourne, her native city, heard of Miss Locke
in her early “ kiddie ” days (not so very long ago),
when she won two gold medals for humorous and
dramatic reciting at the Town Hall. She had
always a leaning towards stage work, but as the
daughter of an Anglican clergyman she was
severely discouraged in her theatrical aspirations,
and in due course Miss “Sumrnie” had to go
MISS SUMNER LOCKE , the girl who is to
have one of her plays staged at Melbourne
Princess's on Saturday afternoon (26th).
Photo, by Rembrandt Studio, Melbourne.
forth and clerk in a commercial office. Some
two years ago she started contributing to inter-
otate magazines, and more recently she left her
office stool to revel in the joy of sub-editing an
ill-fated monthly. Being left billetless by the
dead periodical. Miss Locke turned her pen in
'Y a 7 she h °P es will go. “ The Vicissitudes
ot Vivienne ’ aforesaid is her maiden attempt to
put the smelling organ of Pinero out of joint.
Une of the petite sisterhood, with a good fund of
vitality to draw upon, she is not likely to be
daunted by failure, even should her forthcoming
play disappoint the reasonable expectations of
people who know her for a particularly bright
little woman.
The foregoing burst of verse is the result
of the prevailing epidemic in Melbourne. There,
2917 people have already written to somebody to
in q uire whether “The Taming of the Shrew,” at
Her Majesty’s, will be the first Australian pro-
duction of the play in a Shakspearian form, pure
and undefiled, and 7629 people have stated that
the other people’s suspicion is correct, and a por-
tion of the balance of the population would like
to know whether the prologue is to be or not to
be. The Bulletin is informed that the prologue
is not to be. Also, this paper believes that a few
seats have been reserved for the ghosts of G. V
Brooke, Oreswick, John Dewhurst, Barry Sullivan
and others, all of whom are deeply interested in
the promised production of Miss Anglin and co.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), on October 30
a performance of Robertson’s earliest comedy—
Society is to be set up by “members of the
local Savage Club and lady friends,” in aid of
the Musical and Dramatic Fund. The inspiration
of this interesting outbreak was the scene of the
“Owls’ Roost,” laid in the 2nd or 3rd act of
the play. Tom Robertson had been a Bohemian
pressman of the old, disrespectable school for years
before he made his rise as a playwright, and the
“Owls’ Roost” was an exaggerated picture of a
night haunt where the inky brethren drank their
beer. Ihe gilt-edged Savages of Melbourne
intend to introduce a suggestion of a Smoke Night
into the “ Roost ” scene, so it goes without saying
that their show will be a financial success. Harry
llill has the stage management, and E. B
Manning, secretary of the Savage Club, who’ was
himself a member of the original Brough-Bouci-
cault co., is looking'after the business. It
happens that Her Majesty’s wili be available on
the night of October 30, and J. C. Williamson is
giving the amateurs the use of the theatre.
** * *
Ihe boom of infantile musical prodigies
that has bitten London is apparently to find an
outlet in Australia and the far ends of the earth.
Melbourne met a sample on Saturday night in
the Cherniavslds—three Russian youths, who wore
the baby velvet buckled breeches, sailor collars and
big silk neck-bows of extreme youth. The trio are
a violinist, a pianist and a celloist. The boys
have a certain Slavonic abandon and picturesque-
ness of temperament that carry them farther than
a stolid English or German child of similar techni-
cal capabilities could go. The man-boy, Leo, is
able to infuse a certain amount of fat—the
lusciousness of fried fish—into his violin playing
that blinds a romantic hearer to very palpable
technical defects; his. pantomimic performance
and Greek-Italian appearance remind one irresis-
tibly of the leader in a Dago cafe orchestra. Jan,
at the piano, gives some hope of a future ; what,
he has got now is not marvellous (though
quite above the ordinary), but it is solid,
and a good foundation for some coming fame
if he works consistently. Little Mischael,
the show “ draw ” of the company, embraces a big
cello in the manner of a persistent ant with a fat
dead fly. He’s a musical youngster, and gets
along tolerably well. With the inimitable
mimicry of a child, he follows the absorbed and
languorous antics of a master ’celloist, and with
these brings down the house. Their triumph
belongs to the Tivoli or Rickards. It is rather
illegitimate from a real live Art standard. There
are two singers—Marie Hooton, a sweet, full-
voiced contralto, who has a good range, with
n °thing dangerously dramatic about its flavor;
and Mr. Percival Driver, who indulges a taste for
wild dramatic Hungarian love-songs that are at
strange variance with his appearance. Percival
is sleek, meek, fair and spectacled, with the pink,
Lupid s-bow mouth of a particularly ingratiating
curate, such as any coquettish Sunday-school
teacher would willingly strike with a feather or
throw a ball of paper at.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s the course of “Rob-
bery Under Arms ” is ending this week. Saturday
brings “The Gayest of the Gav,” in which
cheerful-sounding drama the Anderson co. is to
make its appearance with suitable scenicaccessories.
** * *
Melbourne Olympia, which is always
full when other shows may be looking for
population, turned on some fresh flicker-drama
last Saturday night. Of the whole discourse,
which varies from the comic to the severe. “The
Mystery of the Mountain’’has the biggest pre-
tentions to “thrill.” It shows a brigand con-
cealed from poll to equator in a sort of monkish
cowl, similar to those in popular pictures of
mediaeval inquisitors. In that blood-freezing rig
ne infests lonely gulches, and, presenting a long,
1° M <n ’ enu des peaceable passers-by of their
valuables. How lie murders a magnificent old
gentleman, who looks like an Italian type of
alderman, and how he is finally sub-edited with a
bullet, are flicked on to the calico with much
realism.
The Miles Stavordale Quintet, who extract
music from harps and from those hybrid instru-
ments that look like banjos and sound
mandolines, put in an appearance
at Melbourne Opera House last
Saturday night. They are an enter-
taining five, and in their specialty
of obtaining strange human
tones from the intestines of
the cat that used to be, the' 7
are impressive. Mignon-
ette Kokin is becon
ing, if anything, a
greater novelty than
ever. . Nothing
can exceed the opu-
lence of her smile
or the thunder-
ous vivacity of
her acknowledg-
ments. To put
it briefly and
appreciatively, no
flies perch on Miss
Kokin. Regarding the
Desmond Sisters, who
were previously re-
manded for sentence, it
may be mentioned that
the plea of a first
offence has been suc-
cessful. They are here-
by let off with a
caution on condition
that they contribute
7|d. to the poor-box.
MIGNONETTE KOKIN,
of Rickards’ Co.
“THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now do the quidnuncs furiously rage
With recollections of a bygone age
When act-ors flourished on a classic stage—
Almighty Past!
The wondering Many and the learned Tew
Who lead the way, have something Great in view,
They come to see “The Taming of the Shrew.”
At last! At last!
Ihe Bard's supporters, fat and scant of breath,
Who’ve oft met Hamlet since his father’s death,
And probed the deepest feelings of Macbeth,
Their blood is up !
Their soul’s in arms and eager for the fray ;
None are too old or bent or bald or gray
To toddle forth this coming Saturday
And fill their cup
Of joy. O Gott in Himmel! what a debt
Of gratitude, which never can be met
Phis side the grave, we owe thee, Margaret!
O Anglin Miss,
O Titheradge, O Kolker and the rest,
So soon to be in garb of honor drest,
By Shakspeare’s bones we charge thee, do thv
best J
To crown our bliss !
Omit no line of William’s sacred text
Nor let our ears by one false word be vext
When, book in hand, we mark what’s coming next.
O, play the game !
Or, rather, play the play as ne’er before
It hath been played on this our Southern shore*:
And silence them who deem the Bard a bore
For he’s all right.
When placed before us in a way to please,
The Bard has never yet been left to freeze.
Next Saturday ! price Her Majesty’s ?
Good luck—good-night !
VIC.
E. FISHER.
AT POVERTY POINT.
~ r> * s P ass!n g s pr.V and humorous in
lhe Red Mill, but he over-acts at times in a painful
fashion. A firm stage manager, capable of imposing rudd
moral and physical restraints upon this rising voting
comedian, would do his art a world of good. He is
really not called upon to laugh himself to the steep brink
of an apoplectic seizure each time his friend Ford ties
himself in a knot, or bumps against the scenic effects
There is nothing more wearisome and boring than the
mime who laughs with undue wildness at nothing much.
The persistent explosions of merriment that Leslie dis-
charges strike me as an overdose of mock hilarity, which
produces in time the same soporific, deadening results on
those who sample them as do overdoses of morphia or
gin or any other lethal thing.
“Via”: Ventured to “Sherlock Holmes” t’other
night, and after witnessing good mummers like Mrs
Brough and Kingston and M’Mahon wrestling with this
rehash of impossibilities, heard a “ bloke ” near me re
mark with unction: “ Bli’me ! it’s the best thino- Dan
Barry ever wrote. Good old Dan ! ”
“Ande ” writes“ The old Eurekaflag(B. 10/9/’GB)hangs
tattered and dusty enough, over a door in the Ballarat Art
Gallery. It was somehow saved, and years afterwards
presented to the institution, where the curious and the
thoughtful may naze and piece together the tale of the
now romantic struggle for liberty. The ground is blue
and carries four white stars only. It is not likely that the
diggers would add the cross of St. Georg'e representing
the Government against whiich they were in arms.” And
to this “ Karshook” adds his testimony as follows • “Re
‘ Melb.’s ’ par in Bulletin of Sept. 10, about the Australian
flag. In Ballarat Art Gallery (not Warrnambool) hau«-s a
flag that I—in common with other natives of that city—
have always believed to be the flag that was used at the
Eureka insurrection. It is a torn and stained blue fla«-
with white stars forming the Southern Cross. If we had
been wrong in our belief, I think Tommy Marks (who
nursed Peter Lalor and kept him hidden in his tent
when the police wanted him after the trouble! would
have set us right.” '
“ John P.” asserts this: “The theatrical sensation of
Pans just now is a freak play bearing- the title ‘ Chanti-
cleer written by Edmond Rostand, the author of
L Aiglon. When the manuscript was delivered £lO 000
was paid as a deposit on account of the author’s royalties
This play is unique by reason of the fact that there is not
a single human being in it. The characters comprise
birds and animals—th ■ ordinary denizens of a farmyard
—and it is in a farmyard that the scene of this deeidedlv
original poetic drama is laid. The common farmyard
rooster is the hero ; the golden pheasant is the heroine •
and M. Jean Coquelin growls blank verse in the guise of
an old w'atchdog. A broody old hen, who sits in one
corner on a nest and makes caustic remarks on behalf of
virtue, is one of the features of the piece. It was thom-ht
before the play was produced that the actors would simnl v
make up so as to suggest the characters they represent*
but it vvas found by the astonished critics on the first
night that the players had absolutely sunken their
identity and gone the entire fowl.”
fair”*/ a"/ Th £ - star . Prop ”of “ The Belle of May
deli’er” in S, rhi K ,? merlon ’ the “real cut-glass chan-
valuation , h t , ba r °T. Scene > Aofcll - The managerial
h/r llv urnn u *^ u ‘ i IS 200 ? ui " eas . while a further
aully-w rung admission allows that it once dangled in a
millionaire home in Park Lane, London.
and C ir n refiml n V S us * le ! s ! ” shouts the stage avenger,
truth in i ‘ tk S 3S J f the old virtuolls howl had some
ruth in it. Thus Montague Livingstone, of Svdnev
from the’world Ur 4 r ’ WiS 5- ed f ° r privaCe reasons t(i retire
rhoht and W m t" 0^ lnal '.V person would have left at
and by lonely roads, and possiblv in disguise • bui
tavinThereT hfe , had been s l ,ent within earshot of the
proceeded to kne '-Y better - He just took the train, and
he staved *a well-known hotel in Newcastle, and there
ne stayed as an ordinary guest until he grew tired of
fit Uie a /ase b f n TH (theWo,d doesn’t seem to
of dm-i. inv t'he 1 ; 6 P'u 8 "'/ wnter has been in the habit
of eonemlmo! t IfT bero s remark about the uselessness
1 ? S wo, b Onno’ b , Ut bhis be wiu a PP' a ud for all he
is worth. Concealment isn’t worth twopence. If you are
doiTto 0 Hd fiaShor .r/ thin " like «>a? what you warit
tramcar dUP a ’ K dow " aII day on the front of the
.‘‘Haresfoot’’: “The Lily of Killarney’Ms notable ns
M,flK Pera m wh,ch • Voun B' Howard Vernon made his first
Coppaleen. appearance > about 30 -''ears ago, as Myles-na-
dis^ s Pect for cable reports concerning
rison O ” h n = h t Sa ari , es 1S 'I ot deepened by what “ Har-
can eno* tC V say , about Harr - V hauder and his Ameri-
can engagement. In the first place, “Harrison O”
fromhisTeJ a H° e ° f - t,le sub i ect "hen he says, “Apart
zen ’’ Of 'mvni I n a t ry IB , a ,, ve, ' y ordinary sort of comic citi-
aseconrta™ Z kn .°wledge I can say that Lauder’s face is
a secondary factor in the production of the enormous
tharX]f’the h fo h y UndoU * tedly / ar n s - His voice '"ore
tnan half the fortune. A wonderful ringing voice full of
ditties'a Infectiously joyful when he sings ordinary ’all
ditties such as I love a lassie,” or “We parted on the
things and richly sentimental if he varies the order of
things by giving them Rocked in the Cradle of the
Deep ”or something else in that way. Why the man
has been known to strike awe to ‘the hearts of an
easily-impressed audience by singing “Rocked” for
broa e d nC smiW hi Tb C, °* hed f bis «“ar.vkiVt and
Droacl smile . The voice, the magnetic personality the.
the wil aCe are kauder ’ s first three attractions. The'v’pass
the winning post in the order given. At the present time
he ,s worth fully £lOO a nightto any Urge £ond on haT
His name is a draw to that amount, and more And the
Hdlvalne f°r ft ?, I <i . rawn b - v bi « name reckon him more than
faction *t °h M e ' r T neV - He * ets a ” r eat roar of satis-
faction at both ends of his “turn.” There never was
another man so generally appreciated as Lauder I think
He ,s well known to be one of the “ nearest ” of men in
money mlitters— a s careful as Albert Chevalier he is—
a"d bel -"¥ bent on an earl .y retirement from the ’’all busi-
perioriT be aS ™ aS he can a, " ass in a given
penod, he wouldn t be likely to think of coino* to
America from London for much fm than week
BHtain^ t was a record success in importations from
Biitain, and his second visit, of course, gets extra advt
iim" th eu announc ement of the fee offered him. If Lauder
*l“* tbe management 5 per cent, discount for ca-h in
advance every night, it’s as much as he will bate I
may°be’ beheved. 0 " 6 °* the rar6 in which the cable
~T bf r 'i ,Sh ? ortbe billet is a pathetic thing. At
bbe , fin of the season at Dalv’s Theatre
London t other day, the managerial ear was assaulted bv
over 450 aspirants for “ star ” honors and salary. Of this
vast conglomeration of inefficiency only about 20 were
men and the whole crowd didn’t panout an average
of one color to the dish—in fact, there were only 19 specks
in the whole wash-up. Yet the 430 who were rejected
with contumely are probably still toiling after the chance
of a career in grand—not to say stupendous—opera.
, lb :’’ : Apropos Miss Anglin in “ The Taming of the
Shrew, the induction was only g’iven once in Australia
viz,, by the Garrick Club, at Melbourne Roval, on Shak-
•Clt&v 64 ' The play itself was not acted.
The Merchant of Venice being substituted,With Sam
Banks, the compositor, as Sh.vlock, and Mrs. Heir as
I ortia. Barry Sullivan was manager. After the play
came a Shakspearian tableau, with W. Pitt, scenic artist
and publican as Shakspeare. An advertisement states
erroneously that Brooke took his Melbourne farewell as
Petruchio. The last part he acted in Australia was Vir-
ginius, at the Melbourne Royal. The last parr he acted
hVwTsT 8 ° ymP T’ the I . ron Pot ’ was Petruchio, in 1850
He was four years longer in Australia.
A STAGE LOVE-INTERLUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. °3’ ril Mackay’s only obvious fault of acting is in bis
jaunty, laugh mar way of making up his mind beforehand
to Kiss Becky the moment she enters the room. A pram
ttsed seducer of women takes the business of his life more
seriously.— Newspaper item.
Sit still in front,” don’t talk, incline the head
In seemly gloom.
Look as though something very, very dead
Were in the room.
Swallow the noisy sweet, or drop the thing
Upon the floor ;
A grief-besmitten mime is entering
Yon O.P. door.
The Perfect Lover he. See how he woos ;
Such is his art
The very mutes who watch him get the blues
And quite lose heart.
His is a sadness they may never reach.
They realise
Their limitations, and nod, each to each,
In hopeless wise.
Lo ! He advances on the heroine ;
She does not move.
His air, funereal and saturnine,
Has won her love.
All drearily he paces to her side.
One gets the creeps
To see him kiss her—someone tlse’s bride.
The lady weeps.
And he? He sobs aloud. The people cheer.
“Blimey ! ” they moan,
“ This is the proper thing ! ’’—Curtain. And beer
Claimeth its own.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
LINES OF WARNING TO A YNG LADY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
yyrANTED, yng Lad.v, to learn trombone.
•w , j — Adnt.
YnS 'bow dy ’ PaUSe! Y ° Ur honeve<l Ji P s make Cupid’s
Perchance when you have learnt to pbiy they’ll not be s".
ffimwith your brown—or golden—hair you hold en-
thralled.
I never saw a trombone yet who was not bald !
Watch well when next unto the play both of you hie,
And search the theatre orchestra with your blue eye.'
See where the puffing trombone-player wildly brays,
And note his bare and polished skull. Its brilliant’glaze
Reflects the lights till at the bell in dark they sink,
Then for the flies it is a no-charge skating fink.
* nB toofat tllink! Your P ea ch-bloom cheeks will grow
With puffing down that brassy thing to find A-flat.
Imagine how He’W groan when you your eyebrows raise
While struggling with the music that a trombone plays.
And how He' 11 shudder at the solo—strident, loud,
And wonder how on earth the thing will strike the crowd.
Yng lady, don’t ! Play something else ! Learn the guitar
For ladies yng trombones no fitting pastime are.
.s.w.
E.O’F.
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble
and Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appre-
ciate good advice, and we are glad, therefore, to
be able to publish the following from a prominent
physician. •
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of
kidney trouble and other diseases, such as rheu
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidnev
trouble in some form. The most dangerous
feature of this disease is the fact that many
people have it without their knowledge, and con-
sequently neglect it until it has reached a danger-
ous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must be given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a pre-
scription which we have seldom known to fail in
any case. It contains no harmful ingredients, is
pleasant to take, not expensive, and can be
supplied by any good chemist. It is as follows
lincture Gentian Compound, one ounce-
feyrup Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Com-
pound, one ounce ; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
lake a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bedtime.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few
weeks it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for rheumatism, kidney and bladder
trouble, backache, and all allied complaints.
iNote.—Other papers are privileged to copy the


SUMMER SUIT
COMFORT.
MEN’S Cool, Comfortable 2-Piece Oatmeal Crash
Suit, as illustration, consisting of Coat and
Trousers. The material lias been thoroughly
boiled in soap and soda water before making up, and we
guarantee no further Shrinkage ; our guarantee means
money refunded for any complaint on this score. All
sizes are in stock. Buttons removable for laundrying.
Coat is cut either Round or Square.
This Suit may also be had in Cream Drill with
White Stripe.
price 18s. 6d.
These make delightfully cool Summer wearing, and are
forwarded carriage paid to any part of the Commonwealth.
David Jones Ltd.
SYDNEY.
r
Miss A. Bate, The Lake, via Cliarleville,
O ._“1 do not know what we people who
hveTn the bush would do without Chamberlain s
Cough Reined v. We al ways keep a bottle of it in
our home, in faf we call it our ‘doctor.
Perhaps she’s on the railway 1
Perhaps she’s on the sea !
Perhaps she’ll go
To Jericho, , , ~
Perhaps she will! Perhaps she won t.
Put if she does or if she don’t,
Pm glad that 1 presented to her
A bottle of Woods’ Great Pepper mint Cure.
SOCIETY
SELF-EVIDENT.
THE SQUIRE: “’Aren’t I 'ad you clothed an
heddicated as a gentleman ?”
THE PRODIGAL SON : “ You ’are!”
It isn’t often that a Supreme Court Judge
really lets himself go; therefore the whoop of
Justice Cohen, of Sydney, when he opened the
vials of his wrath on the Freeman and Wallace
firm of advertising medicos was a blessed thing to
listen to. One of the firm’s deluded patients was
asking for £lOOO damages, and he got £450. It is
a long worm that has no turning ; in this case the
marvel is that the aggregate patient didn’t turn
years ago. Justice Cohen, in summing up, re-
vealed stores of reproachful language that few
credited him with. His expressions included
“feelings of abhorrence and indignation ” ; “cruel
cunning, unmeasured audacity, and hypocritical
pretence” ; man’s inhumanity to man ; “ craft
and cunning”; “ haste and hunger for money ;
“reeks with wickedness”; men with callous
dispositions, with hearts of stone” ; “ remarkable
degree of cunning”; “double-dealing”; “un-
blushing hypocrisy ” ; and “ unmeasured audac-
ity”; also he said that, “were we not in the
building which we are I should say it is devil-
ish.” It was a fine, robust summing up and de-
serves to be recorded as a pleasing departure from
the stodgy traditions of the Bench.
* * * *
The Freeman and Wallace establishment
seems to have been lavishly decorated with signs.
In the early stages of the case an articled clerk
went round the building like a roaring lion seeking
for some responsible party whom he could devour
with a summons. He says he found notices which
read :
Pr. Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S. E.L.M
Physician-in-Ohief, registered by the Medical Boards ot
New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Great
Britain and America.
D?: Wa M IIace W RR:C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.M., Specialist
in Men’s Diseases.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D. t ■_ . ,
Dr. Wallace, L.R.C.S.E., L.R.C.P.E., L.M., Specialist
in Men’s Diseases.
Howard Freeman, Director.
Freeman and Wallace, Electro-Medical and Surgical
JJr. Wallace, L.R.C.S.D., L.R.C.P.E., L.M., Specialist
in Men’s Diseases.
Freeman-Wallace Institute. Pr. Wallace, M.D.,
L.R.C.P. D.R.P.S., L.M., Physician-in-Chief, Registered
by the Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria,.
South Australia and England.
It must have been a gorgeous-looking building
when it had got all those holiday clothes on.
During one of the most frantic rushes that
distractecf Melbourne during Fleet week, a casual
hand, who was helping to shunt the trains at the
intersection of Elizabeth and Flinders streets, saved
an elderlv woman and her daughter from being run
down by a dummy while they were mooning on the
track He made a blind dash and threw them
off the line, and he and the elder lady went down
together. His knee was hurt and his nose was
oreatly deteriorated on the blocks, and before he
could pull himself together the daughter fell upon
him with the butt end of a bush brolly the size of
a gumtree and knocked him senseless. J.he young 1
woman’s remark, when told that the man was not
a chance ruffian but a hero who had saved their
lives, was: “Well, he might have done it like a
gentleman ! ’’ # ,
Judge Rogers allowed a barrister to put a
series of questions beginning, “Would you be
surprised?” in the Sydney District
Court last week. He ruled that “the
question had come into vogue since the
Tichborne case, and was only another
way of asking a question.” It is, how-
ever (for the witness), a passing un-
pleasant way of asking a question, if the
questioner happens to be an unscrupu-
lous law-limb, and it has not hitherto
been in vogue in N.S.VV. courts. It
enables counsel, among other things, to
make assertions to the jury which he
never means to prove, since they are
totally untrue. Also, it is a deadly
weapon for use upon the honest but weak
class of witness. The latter has sworn,
in all good faith, to having seen Or-
lando Smith in George-street, Sydney,
on the 10th instant. “Would you,”
thunders counsel, “be surprised, sir. to
hear that Orlando Smith was in Berrima
gaol before, on and after the 10th in-
stant, and that we have documentary
evidence in proof thereof, in our posses-
sion ? ” As a fact, the witness has seen
Orlando in George-street at the time
mentioned and, in his heart, knows that
he has. Yet if he is inexperienced and
foolish (and he mostly is), doubts begin
to assail him. Visions of perjury pro-
ceedings flit before his mental vision.
He reflects that no one is infallible.
He wavers and admits that, if it comes
to that, he isn’t too sure it wasn’t one of
the other Smiths he saw. Thereat he is
dismissed from the box contemptuously,
and retires crushed and with a vague
feeling of wrong raging somewhere about
him. Certainly this is, in a sense,
“only another way of asking a ques-
tion.” But ft is not a particularly equitable
—in fact it is a way tliat, if indulged in
anywhere outside a law-court, would probably
earn the questioner a woodener on some sensitive
organ that he would recall for moons and moons
afterwards.
NOT MILK FOR BABES.
SOULFUL JOHNNY: “Allow me to congwatulate
you. Miss Sewial. I intend to wead youh
book wight through .”
THE AUTHORESS : “ Great Heavens! What will
your parents say?”
The Oldest Inhabitant discourses on fiubs :
A somewhat remarkable Sydney hotel is now on the
market, that known for some years as “ Pfahlert’s,’’ in
Carrington-street. In the ’fifties, soon after its erection,
it was the German Club. Then Abraham Cohen, father
of Justice Cohen, kept it as Cohen’s Family Hotel, and
Mr. Cohen died there in 1874. Charles Pfahlert followed
and held it to 1880, when Tom Curran, afterwards
Imperial M.P. in the Home Rule interest, came along.
Curran remained for six years, and made way for Mr.
H. R- Boulton, who was the holder until 1891, when Mr.
Jakob Lichtseheindl took the place, and died there this
year. It is under this gentleman’s will that the hotel is
to he sold as a going concern. Most non-German people
called the late proprietor “ Lightswindle,” but that
wasn’t anything like the pronunciation, nor was it like
the man either.
There was a wedding, the other day, at
Wangaratta, near the Vic.-N.S.W. border, and
the local reporter, or reporteress, spread him (or
her) self :
The marriage . . . presented features somewhat unique
in respect to surroundings which are seldom met in cere-
monies of this nature, but which were nevertheless
artistic and beautiful in the highest sense; and if the
previous life of the bride be considered in conjunction
with the environments of her marriage, the whole
assumes a touch of poetical harmony, which is really
appreciable. Reared amongst the wild yet beautiful
scenes of her mountain home, with the voice of rolling
waters, the ceaseless murmur of the forest, and the song
of birds filling every hour of her daily life, breathing the
odor of musk and peppermint, and living under a fro wn of
ruo-o-ed hills, she was truly a maid of the mountains,
and’it was but in the natural fitness of things that she
should kneel before an improvised sanctuary under the
wide fronds of a magnificent tree-fern and plight her troth
To her “ Rowland Chief,” for ‘‘better or for worse, for
weal or woe, till death them do part. It was an ini-
missive scene The green field on which the homestead
stands slopes downward to the creek, and beyond it,
brown and stern, rise the spurs of Drum Top. Behind
where the hill runs into the forest stands the sawmill
with its cruel saws at rest for the day, and around it all
*i circle of forest where the mountain magpies were call-
hiff and the gang-gangs were screeching; and as the
group of guests stood around the kneeling couple, the
subdued sunlight falling through the hazy clouds gave
iu't the tmich of solemnity to it all that was needed to
tone the wild exuberance of the surroundings.
And the bride was Harriet Amelia Handcoc v,
and S he was married to Oouzens, and the ceremony
W'-IS performed by Parson Lamble, and then she
drove away in a vehicle that was urged on its wild
career by Johnson.
Re mayoral robes.
At a recent N. 14. W. State
banquet to the Fleet and
other visitors, the guests
became aware, as the
dinner proceeded, of a
fearful and wonderful
costume worn bv one of
the party. No pen, not
even “ Akenehi’s, could
possibly describe it in
detail ; but one feature
of it drew all the lime-
light. It was the waist-
coat. The decorative
scheme of this waistcoat
comprised many strange
flowerings and embroi-
deries, drawn - thread
work, Japanese clois-
onne, willow pattern,
strange lacquers, blend-
ings of Kidderminster
and Turkish carpets with
a smattering of Axrnin-
ster, impressionist and
symbolic paint schemes,
pre-Raphaehte and also
pre-Adamite hues, abo-
riginal-cave markings,
Persian cat and gobelin
tapestry effects, tap pa-
cloth designs from Fiji,
and decorative sarong
schemes from Java. The
rest of the costume,
though overshadowed by
this waistcoat, was also
striking, each garment
seeming to belong to an
entirely different stage
of history, from the Crea-
tion down to the acces-
sion of: Edward Vll.’s
great-grandson. There
was also a three-cornered
hat—the emblem of Bum-
bledom. After exhaustive inquiry, it turned
out that this Solomon-in-all-his-glory personage
was—the Mayor of Hobart. The Mayor of Banks-
town (N.S. W.) can now take a back seat, and the
Admirals pale their ineffectual uniforms.
* * * *
They don’t run much to public buildings
in S. Australia. Generally where there is a
policeman there is some sort of a cell ; but the
township that has a courthouse puts on frills and
wears peacock feathers in its hair. Not many of
them have to do that, though ; mostly the local
J.P. wanders down to the police station, and asks
the prisoner through the hole in the cell door how
he pleads. Sometimes, if the prisoners look
penitent, the J.P. goes into the cells, and fines
them ss. at closer quarters. After a run of
good seasons the J.P. is, however, starting
to put on airs, and he begins to rebel
against going into the cells. One protest
arrived the other day from Edithburgh, a
sizable town which often gets itself into the
illustrated papers by reason of the bulk of its
wheat stacks. The local J’s.P. in that case
strongly objected to going into the cell to fine the
local drunk. The local municipal council also
made some strong remarks on the subject; where-
upon the Department replied that, as the council
was so interested, why not hold the Court in the
council chamber? Abd then it transpired that
the council didn’t have a chamber, or a hall, or
even a barn either. Appaiently it met in the cell
too. Mightily economical is the S. Australian -
he makes one building do for many things. Even
the churches club together, and put up one taber-
nacle, and so save bricks.
CHAOS.
The Governor-General has been figuring in a new role
since his arrival in Melbourne, that of a furniture re-
mover. At a banquet tendered by the President of the
Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives
at Federal Parliament House, last night, regret «as e\-
nressed by Senator Gould that Lady Dudley was not et
in the Commonwealth. Lord Dudley, at a later stage,
said no one would be better pleased than he when she
arrived. “We are very much of a bachelor establishment
at Government House at present ”he said, andl ifyour
Prime Minister was not such a discreet man lie would
have told vou that when he paid his first official call he
found me in my shirt sleeves pushing furniture about.
Daily Paper. „
Governor-General : “ Yaas, Alfwecl, I miss
Mrs. Dudley auf 'lly, don’nherno; she is SO
good at fixing up furniture.’ 1
Sperry of the Fleet while in these parts
received addresses from every large institution
bar two —the Hebrew Hod Carriers Association
and the Union of Christian Pawnbrokers these
two bodies happened to be m recess just then, and
so were unable to participate in the bombardment
of doubtful art and suspicious gran,mar-for
which, no doubt, they will ever be gratefully re-
membered bv a polite but weary and ovei-
•tddressed man. Undoubtedly, the most note-
worthv effusion received by the grey Admiral was
the one United Bung forwarded, saying how
pleased he was Jackie had refrained from buying
too much of bis beer. It was magnificent, but it
doesn’t look like business.
JANE’S CAP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Articles of wearing apparel have increased in price. . . .
At one time housemaids’ caps, which were purchased in
England for 2s. (id. per dozen, were sold in Sydney at 4d.
each. Now the retail price here is from 10Jd. to Is.—
Daily paper.
This is the song of the scrap of rag that clung to the top
of Jane,
The little bit of imported cloth that sat on her weary
brain
While she washed and scrubbed,
While she swept and rubbed,
While she meddled and muddled and growled and
grubbed
In the sun and dust and rain.
When they could be bought for fourpence each she’d a
new one twice a year ;
It perched like a drunken moth on her brow, or waved
above her ear
As she whirled the broom
Once around the room,
As if all the dust was the dust of the tomb,
A thing to avoid and fear.
The weakest-minded woman with ease could have made
the thing in a night,
Sitting alone on the cold gas stove, by the cheap lamp’s
sickly light.
But poor, dull Jane thought
The thing must be bought.
Importing was what she’d been always taught
(Her intellect wasn’t bright).
Then the tariff sent the imported rag up to a blessed
bob,
And stricken Jane gave a piercing shriek, and fell on the
kitchen hob,
For this serving maid
She was sore afraid
That never again would she gambol arrayed
In a cap while in her job.
Honest Jane was a simple wench, and she had the im-
porting way ;
She toiled like a horse ’neath shop-made caps for many a
weary day,
But they got too dear,
And her brain grew clear,
And now the starched linen that’s over her ear
Is her OWN ! ( Hip-hip-hooray !)
N.B.W.
FRANCIS E.
THE MAYOR’S SNACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The head officials at the Sydney Town Hall are in a
state of open rebellion regarding? what they consider an
attempt made to treat them with discourtesy in
connection with recent public functions. . . . The invita-
tions had been issued in a careless, haphazard fashion by
sending around a messenger. Some of the_ officers got
the verbal message, and some did not receive it at all.
They all felt that if they were expected to attend the
luncheon they ought to have been invited in the proper
official wav, as was formerl.v.the custom before the present
Town'Clerk took office, not to be told by a messenger
that “ they could come and have a snack wuth the Lord
Mayor and the aldermen,”— -New,s item.
Oh ! the aldermanic troupe
Clusters thickly round the soup
When the banquet steameth madly in the Hall ;
All the atmosphere’s imbued
With a lovely smell of food,
And the hunted waiter hovers within call,
, Hike a sort of pallid stork,
With a bottle, less the cork,
And a very shabby dress-coat on his back ;
With a “ Yessir ! ” on bis lips •
And an eagle eye for tips
As he helps the aldermen to have their “snack.”
What a modest word snack is !
But it means imported fizz,
Quail on toast, and cake, and jelly—oysters, wine,
Ev’rything a man can hack
With a knife and fork is “ snack.”
When a mob of aldermen sit down to dine,
Be he councillor or king,
Ev’ry man will have his fling.
When the patient, dry ratepayer foots the bill,
He’s the humble absent host,
Who provides the quail-on-toast,
And the councillors go snacking with a will.
N.S. W.
FOE.


A. Kilburn, Carlton, Victoria, writes
“Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy cured my little
girl of whooping cough after she had suffered for
'three months, and we had tried sever»J medicine
For the ailments we all know and fear,
The pill so long 1 wanted is here ;
Laxo-Tonic its name,
Its merits can claim
The ]one Rand
The October number of The Lone Hand is
now passing through the press. As usual, it con-
tains full measure and overflowing of good things
for every class of reader.
“Our Rulers” was a popular feature of the
September number. It is concluded this month.
The Beauty Quest results for the States of Vic-
toria and N.S.W. are announced, with special
photographs, on fine plate paper, of the winners.
The short stories are strong and varied ; their
writers are G. B. Lancaster, Milton Macgregor,
Frank Myers and Alice Kenny.
The new serial, “The Commonwealth Crisis,”
opens in October. It is an absorbing political
romance with the “weight” of history and the
sensation of a Conan Doyle story. Quite the
most notable Australian work of fiction this
century.
For the rest, Beatrix Tracy concludes forcefully
her series of Explorations in Industry. Louis
Esson continues, in “Japanese Imperialism” and
“ Benares,” his powerful studies of the social and
political life of Asia. Fred Broomfield contributes
a study of Sir James Boucaut; E. J. Brady’s
“River Rovers” is continued; and there are a
score of other great features.
Look out for the October Number,
The fwiE Rand
214 George Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
Here’s the “ Change” Hat
State
Size
when
Ordering.
:• :
-■
WM
yr-:
m
PRICE :
12/6
Postage
9d. extra.
The noticeably smart hat of last
season and the soft hat of
quality for this Summer.
To he worn as you like it.
With the brim turned up at the
hack, front or side, or turned
down at any point to afford
shade, the crown creased, folded
or dented as it suits your fancy.
The “ Change ” looks good how-
ever you manipulate it.
We have just received a con-
signment of these hats, and we
doubt if you can get such a
convenient hat for Summer any-
where at a like price.
COLORS—Mid Orey, Stone
Brown, and Fawn.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
“MEN’S j&
OUTFITTERS,”
Victoria’s fool honorarium got further
contumely poured over him the other day by
Justice Hood. A while back one May, missing
his 18-year-old daughter from his premises, con-
ceived the idea that she had been enticed away by
Harold Williams, who had been teaching the
damsel to play the fiddle or some similar weapon,
and had allegedly fallen in love with her.
Williams, however, denied all knowledge of the
infant’s whereabouts; whereupon May and his
son fell upon Harold Williams and routed him
with many wounds. The magistrates, being in-
vited to punish Father May for assault, instead
gave heed to a lawyer’s plea about some alleged
“ unwritten law,” according to which they burn
niggers without trial in the United States, and
dismissed the case. Having listened to the
arguments on appeal, Justice Hood opined that
this “unwritten law ” was a “monstrous proposi-
tion and a piece of pernicious nonsense,” and fined
Mr. May 40s. and ordered him to pay the Costs of
the appeal. He didn’t say much about the
honorariums, but he hinted that they would do
less harm if they would stick to the plain law
instead of putting frills on it.
AFTER HE HAD STATED HIS INCOME.
SHE: “ Why , you couldn’t even dress me.”
HE (embarrassed): “ Er—no. But you would
hare your maid.”
From a correspondent in Kobe :
Japan is getting so desperately hard-up that it is liable
;to wander into any pawnshop these days and inquire
•what is the best offer for its tail. A week'or so back the
:authorities decided to offer 3000 pagodas from among the
hoary possessions of the great Horyuji temple at
Nara. The Horyuji is one of the largest and
■ oldest Buddhist temples in Japan, its foundation
• dating from the beginning of the seventh cen-
tury. It was about 1150 A.D. that the then reigning
[Empress, Koken Tenno, a devout adherent of the new
•faith just introduced from China, had no less than one
•million wooden pagodas made to order. Each measured
18in. in height, and contained a tiny roll of the Buddhist
■ scriptures printed on copper plates." Her Majesty caused
these symbols of the faith to be distributed among
various important temples of the empire, the number
■ allotted to the Horyuji being 100,000. Of the million
pagodas thus distributed, it is said that not more than
40,000 now remain in Japan, the rest having fallen a prey
to the ravages of fire and time. Those in possession of
the Horyuji temple are registered in the Imperial
■archives as national treasures that cannot be disposed of
without the permission of the Government; but on
■account of pressing financial exigency, the authorities
ihave agreed to throw them on the market.
DIDN’T LOSE ANYTHING.
SHE: “So you loved and, lost!" He: “Oh, no. She returned all my presents .”
A Local Option poll was taken in Port
Adelaide (S. A.) in February, 1906, and the people
decided that the beer-pumps should be reduced by
one-third. Then Bung invoked the gradual law,
and the Privy Council has just decided that
everything was regular, and that the desire of the
majority should be carried out. Now more law is
threatened because the Act directs that the re-
ductions should be carried out at the next meeting
of the Licensing Bench after the poll, and while
litigation has been in process several meetings of
the Bench have gone by. It will be a great effort
of intelligence if the Law, after putting obstacles
m the way, solemnly declares that by reason of
those obstacles the poll is void. But then the
Law is capable of almost anything.
* * » «
A very decent Melbourne bookseller and
dealer in second-hand volumes has been served
with a police-court summons for supplying
a couple of disguised policemen with postcards of
a more or less indecent
character, which have been
procurable at many other
shops for at least a year
past. The notoriety of the
cards might be pleaded as
an excuse for selling them,
under the circumstances
of the case. Anyway, it
explains why the unfortu-
nate bookseller had no
thought of the risk he was
taking when he booked an
order from the informers
who laid the trap. One of
them bought a number of
ordinary cards before
broaching the question
about the others. The
shopkeeper, who had never
had any in stock, foolishly
consented to get some for
his customer, the second
spy being subsequently in-
troduced as another cus-
tomer. Having procured
the improper cards, he sold
them at twopence each to
his clients, and thought no
more about the matter until
he was summoned to
answer for his misde-
meanor. Thus a trader was
incited by the police to
break the law at the paltry
rate of 2d. per breakage,
and he, accepting the con-
spirators as prurient-
minded fools who would go
elsewhere for the stuff
they wanted if he didn’t
supply them, took their
order, and so laid himself
open to prosecution. Obviously he was not
tempted by the prospect of a big profit, such as
attaches to the sale of risky goods in an ordinary
way. He might have made a larger profit by sell-
ing a well-bound Bible. The policemen tempted
him—and he fell in.
* * * >
The Town Council of Manly (N.S.W.) has
decided that the dreadful garish hoardings are to
go. It is a noble decision, and all the other councils
should follow the good example. Sydney harbor
looks like the gate of Heaven, and the gate of
Heaven shouldn’t be plastered over with fearsome
shrieks bidding the saved to “ Buy Our Immortal
Plug Hat at 3s. 9d.” When the advertising curse
was at its worst there was hardly any kind of slop
clo’, threepenny boot with paper sole, disor-
ganised half-crown hat, patent medicine, liver
pad, beehive, melodrama or egg-whisk that didn’t
shout at the community from these advertising
hoardings. They were red and green and yellow;
they were striped and blue ; they were black and
white ; they had circles and streaks and twirlv
designs on them ; some of them were the color of
jaundice, and some looked like Moses when the
light had gone out. And every one of them was
a disgrace which ought to have been cut down and
made into a bonfire in honor of the birthday of
Belial.
Melbourne Hospital is being dragged in the
damp over the matter of wages, and isn’t looking
any more salubrious in the process. Lately it
gave its nursing staff an increase of pay, and the
staff is still feverish as a result thereof. But now
the male attendants, who have to do all the un-
pleasant jobs of a big public institution, are
crying for a rise also. Here are some of the
present remunerations:—
Head dresser (attends operations and generally super-
vises), £2 ss. 9d. per week ; second dresser, £1 18s. 6d. ;
ocher dressers, from 30s. downwards ; inquiry clerk, £7
11s. Bd. per month ; assistant clerk, 225. 6d. per week ;
chief stretcher-bearer. 235. Id. per week ; other stretcher-’
bearers (if sleeping awav from hospital), 16s. 6d. or £1
per week ; morgue attendants, £1 6s. lid. and £1 2s. 6d.
per week.
Moreover, all this towering honorarium is earned
under fairly arduous conditions. The men have
to lay out the suddenly-expired corpse, or perform
other distinctive duties for 12 hours a day ; have
the staggering privilege of getting two whole
hours off for meals; and have the further reeling pre-
rogative of annexing for their sole use one half-day
a week, and one entire Sunday every other week.
Corpse-laying and similar employments ought to
be worth more that, ft is interesting to hear that
the hospital committee has the men’s case “ under
consideration.” But since the committee has had
it under the same old consideration for a good
stack of years, it is up to the committee to get
either some fresh consideration, or to devise a
perfectly new kind of lid to put on top of the
matter.
* * * *
“ Ganesha ” : This is the thrilling tale the
stranger told me in confidence outside the King-
street (Sydney) fish-shop :
The iron waves dashed over the stagg’ering lugger.
The moon was large and round, a moon only seen on
tropic summer nights. There were seven of us. The
gulls’ cries mingled with the hissing surf. Let me im-
press it upon you. Avoid the Straits! It is the fever
in the blood. Pearls rise and fall. The market is glut-
ted. What is the price of shell? A man’s soul. The
world laughs and mocks us. We shed our reddest blood
to fatten the gem-sharks of London and Paris. Ha, ha !
I will tell you. I have never breathed it to a living soul.
Yes, I clutched him by the throat. I saw his knife flash
in the moonlight. We struggled. He was strong and
active. lam a strong man. Feel that muscle—not an
ounce of superfluous flesh. The stowaway clung to the
rigging, perished with cold. There was no food except
oysters. We lived on shell-fish for seven days. It was
his life or mine. I shall recall every detail of the ghastly
scene till my eyes close in death. My only chance was
to strike first. I was unarmed. God, how the sea
screamed ! My past life, with its jovs and sorrows,
rushed before me as I slipped in a pool of stagnant
blood and crashed headlong into the boiling surf. Had I
killed him? Mever go to the Straits. It is the fever in
the blood. Let me warn you. It is a lost soul’s exhorta-
tion. When I awoke I was rushing madly along the de-
serted beach. Kindly natives surrounded me and gave
me the milk of young cocoanuts. . . .
It seemed a pretty good yarn, though it didn’t
have much plot. The pubs were shut, and there
was no milk of yaung cocoanuts on tap. So I left
him telling the tale all over again to the Syrian,
and promised to take his advice, whatever it was.
“ Bilge ” writes with the pen of authority
on a maritime matter :
The Sydney Marine Court’s inquiry into the recent
Suva-Hero collision resulted in both vessels being - found
in fault. As each ship confessed to seeing the other for
nearly half-an-hour before the accident, which happened
on a clear night, the verdict seems as near the truth as
most marine-collision verdicts are. But one aspect
challenges attention. The Suva, a big passenger steamer,
was going to Newcastle for bunker coal. As soon as the
Heads were cleared the master left the bridge and went
to sleep. The ship was left in charge of a competent
(because certificated) officer. The Court decided that the
master was justified in going to sleep ; and though the
second mate was adjudged guilty of foolishness in porting
his helm and so standing right across the bow’s of the
onrushing tug, the master left the Court without a speck
on his ticket. Now' the master of the tug was also
below when the collision took place (he had seen the
Suva’s lights 20 minutes before, and left the deck thinking
the Hero would clear it, and so it would if
the Suva hadn’t ported). The tug w - as left in charge of
an uncertificated deck-hand, who was bo’sun, quarter-
master, helmsman, look-out, and w r atch. Consequently
when the luckless man saw the Suva alter its course, he
couldn’t call the master, alter his helm, and stop the
engines in one second. So he crashed into the Suva. Bv
a miracle he only knocked a £3OOO hole in its side; he
might easily have sent £60,000 worth of iron steamer to
the bottom, with all its crew'. The Court held that the
master should not have left his vessel in charge of an
uncertificated party. So, as he had no one else on board
to leave the craft to, in effect the Court said that the
master should always be on the bridge. Now the manning
of tugs is laid dowm by the law. The law says one officer
is enough for a tug. It also lays dow n a heavy penalty if
a tug moves round a harbor w'hile the master is not
on the bridge. Now the Court says he must
also be on the bridge w'hen the vessel is out
at sea—all the time. Time and time again atten-
tion has been drawn to the danger of allowing
only one certificated deck officer on these fulf-
powered tugs, especially between Sydney and Newcastle,
where vessels like the Victoria, Champion, Hero and
Advance are rushing about the crowd* d water highw’ay.
Some night a fine mail steamer will be cut clean in two by
one of these engines of destruction, and will never know
what caused the bump. The master of the Hero, though
blamew'orthy because he had seen the Suva, and should
have remained on deck until it W'as safely astern, is
nevertheless a victim of a rotten panel in the fence which
hedges in the shipowner ; and the sooner Premier Wade
replaces the rotten panel, and makes it compulsory for
the rich tug proprietor to put a certificated mate on his
tugs, the better it will be for everybody.
A financial problem was lately patched up
in an unsatisfactory manner at Sydney Water
Police Court. A sailor went into a hotel for pur-
poses of grog, and while there was approached by
a postcard vendor. The sailor selected sixpence
worth of the cards, and says he tendered a half-
sovereign. The postcard seller only offered him
6d. change, and when the beer-price was refused
with scorn, he declined to give any satisfaction.
In the end, he had to repair to the police-
station in company with a large policeman and an
indignant mariner. During the ceremonial
which precedes locking up the prisoner was
observed to go black in the face and make
swallowing movements. There was no proof that
he was swallowing the half-sovereign, but the fact
that the alleged coin wasn’t found on him was re-
garded as evidence. The law couldn’t cut him
open to see if there was money in him or not, and
it hadn’t sense enough to give him an emetic, so it
gave him a month on spec. Of course, as the
accused didn’t demand an emetic, the case was
rather against him, but still his action might arise
from the fact that there was something else in him
that he didn t want to part with. There is often
so very little inside a hawker that when he is
partly furnished he may reasonably object to doing
anything rash.
GREETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What certain persons choose to call the opening of the
surf-bathing season has been announced.— Sydney paper.
It is at hand !
Hooray !!
The time for basking in the sun
In scanty duds which simply stun
Those holy citizens who un-
Der garments on a clothes-line shun
As things accurst. Gentle and Hun
Flock to fair Ooogee and have fun
Upon the sand,
All day.
The Mayor shakes
His head.
TTe trembles in his robes with fear
Lest some abandoned wretch appear
In other than the foot-to-ear
Habiliments the Council’s clear,
Strong brain designed but yester-year,
Alike for pushite and for peer.
His strong soul quakes
With dread.
The girls are glad.
They start
To hasten from their jobs in town
And, bloque in hand, to tram it down
To where the combing breakers crown
The white strand’s beauty. There renown
They win as surfers, and get brown ;
Twin deeds that make the righteous frown
And grow most sad
At heart.
The callow boy,
The mime,
The lawyer, shop-hand, soldier, thief,
All revel without let or fief,
And do feats that are past belief,
And get half-drowned and give relief
To other lunatics, whose chief
Delight it is, in garments brief,
To swim far out—folk who are lief
Apparently to be shark’s beef.
In fact, all have, repelling grief,
E’en as a herb that’s not in leaf—
A madly ioy-
Ous time.
N.S.W.
10-2-1.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” GAS ENGINE and
PLANT
(made in England)
beat all comers at the
lioyal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Ceplastrier Co., Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold full stocks of all Mining Requisites,
including' Air Compressors, Rock Drills,
Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps,
Batteries, Krom Rolls, Concentrating
M ichinery, etc., and for the-Mine Workshops, Lathes all sizes Radial and Pillar Drills, Punch and Shear
Machines' Pipe and Bolt and Nut Cutters, Shafting, Pulleys, Belting. cim<s’
Snii* Aeents for F REDDAWAY & CO., Manchester, CAMEL HAIR BELTINC ; RANSOMES , SIMS,
n . ® JEFFRIES’ PfIRTABU, STATIONARY and TRACTION ENGINES.
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne ; Post Office ChambenQydngnjgd^^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Senator Walker has drafted a Bill “ authorising'
any joint stock cO. formed or incorporated in any State
to form Reserve Funds for the express purpose of provid-
ing or accumulating funds to protect the shareholders in
such cos. against their liability in respect of the uncalled
capital or reserve liability on their shares, and to provide
for the creation of corporate bodies in which such reserve
funds may be vested.” The thought that first occurs on
ttiis is that, without any Act at all, a co. can “protect
its shareholders against their liability in respect to the
uncalled capital” by limiting the dividends and gradually
capitalising the reserves thus created. The trouble in
that case is that the dividend has to be paid on the
capitalised reserves as well as on the capital actually paid
tip, and, unless the rate of dividends is reduced, that puts
a brake on the aggregation of further reserves. Also there is
a popular, though often foolish, objection tocos, (banks in
particular) which only pay a dividend at a low rate. Take
the case of the Bank of N. S. Wales, for example (Senator
Walker is one of its directors). It has a paid capital of
£2,500,000, and a reserve liability of the same amount.
It has reserves of £1,593,988, and pays 10per cent, divi-
dends. Suppose it transferred £1,500,000 of that
to capital, making in all £4,000,000, obviously its earn-
ings wouldn’t be increased by one penny; yet if it
paid the same total amount of dividend, the rate of divi-
dend would have to be reduced from 10 per cent, to 6J
per cent., and the chances are that that reduction would
have a bad effect on the bank’s credit—and when you
prejudice a bank’s credit you hit it where it lives.
Further, capitalised reserves, since they would
have to carry dividend like the other capital, would in-
evitably have to be used in the ordinary business of the
bank. If they were put aside and invested only in
Government securities, they would bring in so low a
rate of interest that the dividend (and therefore most
likely the business) would suffer that way too. On the
other hand, if they are not capitalised, but are earmarked
for the protection of the shareholders, then obviously
they must be put into a separate fund, and invested apart
from the business, otherwise they most likely wouldn’t
be there when they were wanted.
The whole question has to be looked at from
three points—those of (1) the bank, (2) the individual
shareholder, (3) the creditor. (1) Senator Walker’s
scheme allows the bank to practically capitalise reserves
without paying a dividend on the new capital. Thus the
rate of dividend can be kept high—and very evidently
the public likes dealing with a bank whose rate of
dividend is high. (2) Tiie individual shareholder is
not fully protected, no matter how large the reserves
are, so long as they are merely reserves. The creditors
have the first claim upon them. The first thing that
happens when heavy Josses are made is the writing
off of reserves. If they are not sufficient, capital is re-
duced. If things are not even then balanced, some of the
uncalled capital is got in. On the other hand, if reserves
are ear-marked for the protection of shareholders, and are
invested in Government stock, the earnings will be ordi-
narily less than they are from reserves used in the busi-
ness,as at present. (Certainly one or two Australasian
binks, mostly managed in England, keep their formal
reserve fund even now in Government stock ; but that is
not common.) (3) Creditors have a first claim on the re-
serves at present; therefore, it would seem that, if they
lose that preference, their position will be changed for the
worse. But that doesn’t follow at all. The reserves,
when they are, as now, used in the business, are liable to
be lost, and there is no guarantee whatever that the share-
holders will be able to part up the unca led capital. The
new idea certainly takes away the creditors’ preferent
claim to the reserves (which may not be there when
wanted), but it guarantees that calls at least to the
amount of the ear-marked reserves will be met; and that
is an advantage they don’t have now. On the whole, then,
there seems to be a good deal to be said for S nator
Walker’s scheme, and the small criticisms that so far have
been mostly passed upon it don’t anywhere near meet the
case.
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Feb., 1903 8,788 8 p.c. = 5,943 2,845 113,623
Aug., 1903 12,631 10 „ „ 7,428 5,203 118,826
Feb., 1904 11,646 10 ~ ~ 7,428 4,218 123,044
Aug., 1904 12,635 10 ~ ~ 7,428 5,207 128,251
Feb., 1905 12,791 10 ~ „ 7,428 5,363 133,614
Aug., 1905 11,532 12 „ „ 8,914 —2,61 S
Premiums on new shares .. 8,608 144,740
Feb., 1906 11,298 12 p.c. = 9,450 971 877 145,617
Aug., 1906 13,811 12 „ „ 9,450 1000 3.361 148,978
Feb 1907 14,564 12 ~ ~ 9,450 2000 3,114 152,092
Aug., 1907 17,164 12 ~ „ 9,450 6000 1,714 153,806
Premiums on new shares .. 25,000 178,806
Feb., 1908 17,120 12 p.c. = 11,025 2500 3,595 182,401
Aug., 1908 16,272 12 „ „ 11,025 2500 2,747 185,148
On that showing, profits have shrunk ; but that can be
explained by the fact that this half-year the directors are
paying the officers a bonus of £1673, thus letting them
share in the remarkable improvement that came to Tas-
mania recently with the high prices of metals and wool.
Unfortunately those prices are not what they were ; still
they gave the bank a fine fillip, and allowed it to do a
good deal of writing-down, which will be a help in the
days that follow. Of course one can’t tell the actual
results of a boom until after the consequent slump has
happened. During the boom one sees only the large
advances and the big profits ; afterwards there is always
the possibility of bad debts to wipe out—bad debts incurred
through advances made on a false valuation. And what the
possibilities in that way are a mere balance-sheet doesn’t
tell, or at least it doesn’t tell until long after the damage
(if any) has been done, because looking at the mere
figures giving the total of the advances you can’t tell
whether they have been made on a liberal or a con-
servative basis. In one respect, however, there is evi-
dence that this management adopts a conservative basis :
Consols (of which the bank holds £160,000 face value)
have been written down to £B2 10s., and the present
market value is £B6.
Calculated on capital and reserves combined,
profits show a high return
Feb., 1905 .. £9 9 8 p.c. Feb., 1907 .. £9 14 10 p.c.
Aug., 1905 .. 8 7 7 „ Aug., 1907 .. 11 7 3 „
Feb., 1906 .. 7 17 10 „ Feb., L9OB ..10 8 3 „
Aug., 1906 .. 9 6 0 „ Aug., 1908 .. 9 2 1 ~
For the last half-year this is after paying the bonus to
officers ; reckoning that in with the profit the return was
at the rate of £lO os. lOd. per cent.—and that takes off
some of the severity of the bump. Yet, though these
fio-ures are so high, the bank has the use of no very large
proportion of public money—£4 9s. for every £1 of its
own in the business. Part of the explanation of the big
profit lies in the fact that the bank has only 28 per cent,
of its liabilities in liquid form, and nearly half of that is
profit-earning. There appears to be therefore little scope
for extending the advance business on the present
resources: for under ordinary circumstances a lower pro-
portion of liquid assets than 28 per cent, means risk of
the worst sort of accident should anything go wrong sud-
denly. Other recent, movements are shown hereunder :
Aug., 1907. Aug., 1908.
Notes and bills .. £63,725 £66,686 Inc. £2,961
Deposits .. .. 1,524,311 1,537.338 Inc. 13,027
Liquid assets .. 488,309 457,267 Dec. 31,042
Advances .. .. 1,376,786 1,484,467 Inc. 107,681
Premises .. .. 38,198 37,636 Dec. 562
The bank, now 76 years old, and therefore nearly vener-
able enough to be the father of every bank in Australasia
except the N. S. Wales (1816), Commercial of Sydney
(1834), Australasia (1835), and Union (1837), lias had a
remarkably prosperous career. Even in the black period
of the early ’nineties it didn’t pay less than 5 per cent.
Also it doesn’t go outside its own little island for deposits,
and it has a solid backing of very profitable local senti-
ment in its favor. Which things have to be remembered
in connection with the 28 per cent, of liquid assets before
alluded to ; for a bank like this may very likely be safe in
working at a proportion of liquid assets which a bank
with uncertain foreign deposits couldn’t look at.
Standard Life Association, Ltd. (Sydney):—
Total Claims Total Added
In- and Sur- Ex- Out- to De-
June, come, renders, penses. goings. Funds, licit.
1900 .. £9,193 £216 £12,998 £13,214 £4,021
1901 .. 24,593 453 23,833 24,286 £307 3,714
Assur-
ance
Fund.
1902 .. 31,481 1,081 25,838 26,919 4562 848
1903 .. 36,960 2,618 28,162 30,780 6180 7,028
1904 .. 44,140 13,886 26,602 40,488 3652 10,680
1905 .. 33,668 2,828 22,440 25,268 8400 19,080
1906 .. 37,516 10,176 21,678 31,854 5662 24,742
1907 .. 43,110 8,444 27,143 35,587 7523 32,265
Taken from
Funds.
1908 .. 50,670 11,957 38,861 50,818 148 32,117
In 1904 the first valuation of this office was made, and
another is due next year. Up to the time of the first
valuation the figures of the two branches were not dis-
tinguished : since then the proceedings have been as
follows :
Industrial Branch.
Claims, Ex- Added to
Income. etc. penses. Funds. Funds.
1905 .. £23,446 £1686 £16,825 £4935 £5,905
1906 .. 26,278 8388 15,393 2497 8,402
1907 .. 24,365 6987 14,229 3149 11,561
Taken from
Funds.
1908 .. 27,065 9433 19,327 1695 9,856
Ordinary Branch.
1905 .. 10,222 1142 5,615 3465 13,175
1906 .. 11,288 1788 6,285 3165 16,340
1907 .. 18,745 1457 12,914 4374 20,714
1908 . .. 23,605 2524 19,534 1547 22,261
Taken either separately or together, this looks rather
shocking. Fortunately, though things are not at all
brilliant, they are really not so bad as they look from
these figures.
The co., which had a paid capital of £12,500 to
start with, began its life by issuing short-term endow-
ments, which are mostly regarded as very dangerous
things to handle. These made things look good for two
or three years ; but now the bill is coming in. , This busi-
ness, no doubt, accounts for the heavy payments in
claims, etc., in the Industrial branch, and partly explains
why the funds have actually had to be drawn upon during
the year. The expense rate is, moreover, excessive ; and
that is the other part of the explanation. As to that,
this list shows the movement in both branches :
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
Industrial. Ordinary.
1905 .. £7l 15 2 per cent. £54 18 7 per cent.
1906 .. 58 11 6 ~ 55 18 6 „
1907 .. 58 8 0 ~ 68 17 10
1908 .. 71 8 2 „ 82 15 0 ~
The tremendous rate in the Ordinary branch can be to
some extent explained away. But the record in the
other branch is bad, and there is nothing in the accounts
or report to make it. look anything else. Granted that
much new business has been secured in this branch at
great expense, the fact still remains that the total
premiums collected during the year are bi11£26,143
while in the previous year they amounted t0'£23,510,
showing a growth of £2633 and no more. It is true that
the A.M.P.’s three-year-old Industrial branch was worked
last year at an expense rate of as much as £BB 14s. lid.
per cent. ; but, then, the premium receipts moved along
from £18,570 in 1906 to £34,384 in 1907, and that makes
all the difference. Some allowance certainly has to be
made on account of the heavier claims in the Standard,
for when a policy falls due, that’s an end of the
premiums. Making' every allowance, however, the
office’s record appears to be very poor. It is fairly
obvious that the society is spending a great deal of money
n getting insurance which it can't keep,
The Ordinary branch rate has been lifted up to
its dizzy height by a large increase of new business. In
testing the actual cost of the business, The Bulletin
generally assumes that the old or renewal busi-
ness costs 7 per cent.; then the balance represents
the cost of the new business. On that basis, the
Standard’s new premium receipts cost £192 11s.
per cent. Seven per cent, is, however, too little
for renewal - business management in a young or
small office ; allowing 10 percent., then to get in £lOO of
new premiums last year cost £lBB 10s. —a very high rate,
yet hot the highest’in Australasia. Unfortunately, one
cannot tell how much of this business sticks. The num-
ber of policies issued is set out carefully ; the number of
policies lapsed is as carefully left unmentioned, though in
that re-pect the Standard merely follows a bad custom of
the trade. The Assurance Fund is backed up by paid
capital amounting to £12,500 in £1 shares fully paid :
there are 250,000 authorised, but the other 237,500 are not
issued, and may therefore be disregarded. In addition to
this capital, there is an alleged asset, “ Extension of busi-
ness account, £5500.” This, however, is paper pure and
simple, and has been disregarded in the tables above.
The real assets are sound ; they are mainly Government
securities (£36,610) and freeholds (£13,250), the latter
secured during the year. The Ordinary policies are en-
titled to all the profits earned in that branch; 10 per
cent, cumulative div. on capital is a charge on the Indus-
trial branch. After that the Industrial policies are
entitled to four-fifths of the profits when there are any.
* * * *
The Adelaide Steamship Co. :
To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1901 .. £47,041 5 p.c. = £25,359 £21,682 £21,682
1902 .. 91,329 10 „ „ 50,718 40,611 62,293
June,
1903 .. 94,978 9J ~ „ 50,718 44,260 106,553
1904 .. 86,104 10 ~ „ 50,718 35,386 141,939
1905 .-. 86,998 10 „ „ 50,718 36,280 178,219
1906 .. 76,307 10 „ ~ 50,718 .25,589 203,808
1907 .. 83,890 10 ~ „ 50,718 33,172 236,980
1908 .. 82,850 10 „ ~ 50,718 32,132 269,112
These reserves are made up as follows: —
1901. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Insurance .. .. £5,772 £115,000 £130,000 £144,000
Repairs and Renewals 10,000 85,000 104,000 121,000
Undivided Profit .. 5,910 3,808 2,980 4,112
Under ordinary circumstances one wouldn’t regard these
as true reserves. The Insurance Fund is ostensibly the
accumulation of premiums to cover risks which are still
current and will go on running until they have been
transferred to outside insurance offices. Also the Repairs
and Renewals Fund is ostensibly to pay for the refurbish-
ing of old ships or their replacement by new ones. But
such funds are not always what they seem. They are at
times handy cupboards in which to lock away
profits that are not wanted at the moment for
purposes of dividend. Thus at May, 1900, the
old Adelaide Steamship Co. had £157,993 of an insurance
fund, and £79,942 of a repairs and renewal fund. At
that time the paid capital was £202,870 in 20,287 shares
of £lO each. At the next balance, as shown above, the
Insurance Fund was £5772, and the Repairs Fund
£10,000; and the capital had been raised to £507,175.
The reserves meantime had, of course, been transferred to
capital. Whether and to v.hat extent the present insur-
ance and repairs funds are really undivided profit the
accounts don’t allow one to say for certain. One can’t
tell, for instance, how much of its own insurance the co.
really carries ; yet the outside insurances must be pretty
extensive, judging by the fact that “insurance policies
current, valued at June 30,” stand in the balance-
sheet at £15,010. Under those circumstances, it would
have to be a shocking and wholesale disaster which would
mop up anything’ like the whole of the co.’s own Insur-
ance Fund. And then there is the Repairs and Renewals
Fund. Though, presumably, repairs and renewals have
been happening during the past seven years, yet in that
time the net growth of the fund has been £lll,OOO. Fur-
ther, something appears to have been written off direct to
cover depreciation ; so that the fund isn’t the only pro-
vision for wear and tear. In the past five years the book
value of steamers, plant, etc., has moved like this :
1904 .. £502,589 I 1907 .. £403,151
1905 .. 432,587 1908. .. 563,411
1906 .. 403,017 |
In four years the book value of this item has thus in-
creased £60,122 ; and during that period these changes
have been made in the fleet :
Added. Disappeared.
Echunga .. 4589 tons Willyama .. 2705 tons
Lammeroo .. 3750 ~ Adelaide .. 1711 ~
Junee .. 2217 ~ Others .. 957 „
Urilla .. 1965 ~
ltupara .. 1368 ~
Paringa .. 1310 ~
Others .. 1217 ~
Total 16,416 tons | Total 5373 tons
The net addition has thus been 11,043 tons; besides
which a 3500-ton ship is building’. Yet only' £60,122 has
been added to capital account —the balance has been pro-
vided out of profit, as a set-off against four years’ wear
and tear which hasn’t been made good by current
renewals; and the set-off appears extremely liberal.
The co. has been putting much of its sur-
plus earnings into shares in other properties.
Lately it bought a large interest in the North
Bulli colliery—a concern which is understood to be doing
very good business, especially in the coke trade. In
common with other Australian inter-State cos., the
Adelaide has had a remarkably prosperous time since the
“ understanding” was arrived at, and competition was
nicely regulated. The continuance of that remarkably
prosperous time depends largely upon whether competi
tion can be kept thus nicely regulated.
* *- * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Dividend (10 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases (10 To Re- Re-
Profits. p.c. Bonus). serves. serves.
Jan., 1903 .. £6862 £6163 £609 £15,438
July, 1903 .. 5806 5938 15,306
Jan.,1904.. 6529 6564 265 15,571
July, 1904.. 6658 6451 207 15,778
Ton ions (8195 7250 945 16,723
dan., lyuo.. -j Premiums on new shares 6887 23,610
July, 1905 .. 8410 7188 1222 24,832
Jan., 1906.. 8925 7751 1174 26,006
July, 1906.. 8062 6995 1067 27,073
(11J p.c. bonus)
Jan., 1907.. 9138 8298 840 27,913
July, 1907 .. 8809 8251 558 28,471
Jan., 1908.. 9298 9034 264 28,735
July, 1908 .. 9995 9075 920 29,655
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate only.
It isassumed that the bonus to employees, which has
been deducted from the profits, will amount to £520, and
that £3OO of the shareholders’ bonus on purchases will
not be called for and will lapse. The total of these un-
claimed bonuses for the past two years is £1125 ; this
amount has gone to swell the reserves. There is, in ad-
dition, £2344 of unclaimed dividends in the society’s
hands —nearly the total amount of dividends payable in
two years. This is one result of so many shareholders
holding but the one share necessary to qualify for the
bonus of 2s. 3d. in the £on their purchases. (There are
13,884 shares and 6000 shareholders.) The following shows
the progress made recently
Propor-
Gross tion Ex-
Cash Profit on Working penses to
Receipts. Sales, etc. Expenses. Receipts.
Jan., 1898 .. £55,613 £13,256 £8,886 15.98 p.c
July, 1906.. 95,479 23,452 14,317 14.99,,
Jan., 1907 .. 105,012 25,822 15,489- 14.75,,
July, 1907 .. 102,019 25,272 15,262 14.96,,
Jan'., 1908 .. 113,173 27,800 17,290 15.28,,
July, 1908 ~ 115,130 28,354 17,106 14.86,,
These working expenses don’t include bonuses or allow-
ances for depreciation ; the latter for the half-year
amounted to £569. The co. owes £18,555, mainly on
trade accounts, and it has £10,619 of cash and book debts
and £41,256 of stock, besides other assets. The book
debts are the lowest for some terms past ; and in that
respect, and in regard to general progress, the accounts
now furnished are highly satisfactory.
* * * »
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
June, 1903.. £372 10 p.c. = £375 £4O £742
Dec., 1903.. 459 10 ~ ~ 375 £B4 826
June, 1904.. 471 10 „ „ 375 96 922
Dec., 1904.. 524 10,, ~ 375 149 1071
June, 1905.. 418 10,, ~. 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905.. 554 10 ~ ~ 375 179 1293
June, 1906.. 516 10,, ~ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906.. 508 10 ~ ~ 375 133 1567
June, 1907.. 488 10,, ~ 375 113 • 1680
Dec., 1907.. 543 10,, ~ 375 168 1848
June, 1908.. 673 10 „ „ 375 298 2146
Of the reserves £2025 consists of plant and gasometer de-
preciation fund. Apparently that has to cover actual
depreciation ; it is, iti other words, a provision for the
renewal that will have to be carried out later on. Con-
sequently the reserves are not true reserves ; and so with
some part of the profit mentioned above. The plant ac-
count now’stands at £13,065. If it is really worth £2146
less than that, through depreciation and wear and tear,
there are no reserves at all ; if it has depreciated more
than that, then the dividends have not been all earned.
It certainly doesn’t look as if there were much to spare.
The co. owes nothing beyond a few’ trade debts ; after
paying them and the div.' it has £lO3B of liquid assets, be-
sides stores.
Bega Co-operative Creamery Co. (N.S.W.): —
Sup- Writ-
Divs. . pliers’ ten Re-
Profits. (5 p.c.) Bonus. Off. serves
June, 1903 .. £934 £177 £319 £302 £BB6
June, 1904 .. 1381 179 290 1798
June, 1905 .. 383 179 694 267 1041
June, 1906 .. 803 179 277 242 1146
Dee., 1906 .. 732 112 1766
June, 1907 .. 805 179 217 2175
Loss.
Dec., 1907 ... 160 635 108 1272
Profit.
June, 1908 .. 486 179 1195 384
This co. is in the butter export business ; and the loss
shown in the latter half of 1907 arose through a fall in
values after the fat had been shipped. To provide
against such losses an export reserve of £857 had
been accumulated at the end of June, 1907 ;
but the whole of that was wiped out, which
turned a good profit on current business into a net
loss. The bulk of the reserves at that time consisted of
a fire and marine insurance fund ; it stood at £1153 on
Dec. 31, 1907. But 10 tons of butter went down with the
Bega ; and so £1025 had to be drawn from the insurance
fund. In the foregoing this is shown (along with £l7O
depreciation) as written off. The necessity for substantial
reserves in connection with these butter cos. has been
frequently pointed out—(1) because their export business,
is very speculative, and (2) because their turnover, com-
pared with their capital, is usually very large. The Bega
Oo’s. recent experience ought to point the moral. Fortu-
nately the co. had its reserves in a liquid form ; at Dec.,
1906, it had liquid assdts amounting to £2775 in excess of
liabilities. This surplus had been reduced to £425 before
paying- the current dividend —some g-one in new plant,
etc.., but most of it in these losses.
Three people send along a requisition asking
for an opinion of the Eudunda Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (S.A.), and another man asks for an over-
haul on his own. The fact seems to be that this co-op.
concern has been taking some money at 6 per cent. ; and
that is enticing. At last balance it had £11.914 of capital,
protected by £1470 of reserves and £1247 of undivided
profits; but out of the £1247 the dividend (6 per cent.),
interest and 'bonus were payable. After allowing £lOO
for depreciation, the half-year’s profit was £1247. The
co., which js 11 years old. has doubled its capital in two
years ; also, on the streng th of that, it has gone in for
trading on the Murray in its own little trading steamers.
This is a new venture, wherefore the past isn’t any guide
to the future. The co. owed £3983, and is apparently
taking more deposits. About two-thirds (£12,448) of the
assets are represented bv stocks (merchandise, wood,
wheat, etc.). The balance-sheets —and hence the profits
—are largely, therefore, a matter of estimate ; for these
stocks may be over-valued or under-valued. Both capital
and loans can be withdrawn on demand or on short
notice; and things may easily go wrong without the
general body of shareholders or creditors knowing it..
If things do go wrong- the “ insider ” has a chance to get
out if he wants to, leaving the person who isn’t in the
know to, face the trouble. The plan of allowing share-
holders to draw out their capital at any time in a trading
concern of this kind is dangerous—very dangerous.
* ,* * *
There is just now much rivalry among Broken
Hill mining managers in the matter of reducing working
costs. The trouble, when you come to comparisons, is
that the mines don’t work out their costs on the same
basis. Thus,,it,may be that one mine can work at 2s. per
ton cheaper than another because it is upt-trying to force
production. That is to say, a mine ivhich only breaks the
most easily-got ore can work at a very low rate for
a time. When the prices of metals are high outputs are
forced up, and costs naturally fly up too., That was why,
when the metal markets were booming, and when every
co. was trying to get every ounce out of its mill, costs
were anything between 20s. and 235. per ton. There is a
lot of waste about a lead mill at any time, but
one run beyond its normal capacity is a reck-
less prodigal. Costs go up enormously, but so long
as large profits are being made, the co. doesn’t care. In
the case of the Broken Hill South, costs were also for-a
time high because of the transition period between the
old and the new order of milling. To-day, however, costs
have been reduced to approximately 15s. per ton —which
is a big achievement, considering that, at the end of
December last, they stood at £1 Is. 4d. per ton.
* . * *
Broken Hill South nowadays adopts a method
of its own with regard to the tailings from the lead mill.
Formerly everything went over one dump. Now, the
tailings are divided into the sheep and the goats ; one lot
is called “zinc tailings,” and the other lot “quartz tail-
ing-.” Last half-year there were 11,259 tons of the former
assaying 5 per cent, lead and 18'4 per cent, zinc, and
47,533 tons of the latter, assaying under 4 per cent, lead
and 12 - 8 per cent.-zinc. “The co.’s new mill,” the
directors said in their last report, “is now producing a
high-grade tailing, which is being stacked on the surface,
and a low-grade product, which is being conveyed under-
ground for filling the mine.” The “ low-grade
product ” is the stuff that last half-year averaged
nearly 13 per cent, zinc; in fact, what are called
quartz tailings contained 62’5 per cent., or not far short
of two-thirds, of the whole of the zinc in the original
ore. If all these tailings are being dumped Underground
for filling it looks like a tremendous waste of metal, and
one would judge that the management hasn’t got any
large hopes about the future of the zinc business. To
use this stuff may, however, save the co. a shilling or so
a ton, which would otherwise have to be spent in break-
ing mullock for stope-filling purposes ; and every shilling
counts these times.
* » * *
The Zinc Corporation, though it is still dropping
a lot of metal in the effort to split up the Elmore concen-
trates into two products, one heavy in zinc and low in
lead and the otiier heavy in lead and low in zinc, has
gone farther along the road to success than it seemed
likely to reach a few months ago. Construction costs at
the works at South Broken Hill are still pretty heavy ;
but ordinary' working costs were got down to 9s. lOd. per
ton for August, as against 13s. 2d. for March.
When operations were first started at the Zinc
Corporation’s works it was not possible to get more than
about 30 tons of tailings per day through each vacuum
machine. Now the capacity has been raised to 70 tons
per 24 hours, and it is still being increased. A number of
Huntington mills which occupy the ground floor of the
grinding section of the plant, and have been used for
treating the over-size from the grinding-pans above, are
to be replaced by ordinary grinding pans. This is being
done with a view to saving time and increasing the
output.
* * * *
At Broken Hill South Blocks, Bewick, Moreing
and Co. are putting out the very best that is in them.
When 8., M. and Co. first reached out their long arms to
Broken Hill, the local expert said that the firm knew
absolutely' nothing about silver-lead, so the firm wasn t
overwhelmed by the warmth of its greeting. Asa matter
of fact, it showed that it didn’t know much about the
lead business ; but it was put on its mettle, and it had
as usual, the luck to have plenty of money’ behind it, so
it didn’t have to start before it was ready. The mine
which had been tinkered with for years was very well
equipped and very well opened up ; consequently now 7 ,
when production has started, costs have got down to
the lowest point on the field. True, 8., M. and Co.
know how to present the results to make them
look best ; yet for August, even including development
costs and ail capital outlay on equipment, the total runs
out at a fraction under 17s. 9d. per ton plus a few pence
for administration. Actual extraction, milling, and
general expenses were under 13s. 6d. The silver contents
of the ore are unfortunately’ very low—under 3oz. per ton
—but the ore is a fine milling proposition, and the
recoveries work out at no less than 78T per cent, of the
lead and 61" 1 per cent, of the silver. For last half-year
the North showed the best recoveries on the field, and its
figures were not as good as these.
At the Broken Hill South Blocks, a secondary
zinc product is being produced in the concentrating mill,
and is being stacked with a view to future possibilities.
It may be that an Elmore vacuum plant will in time be
added to the South Blocks’ equipment, but nothing
definite in that direction has j r et been decided on. The
mine itself is opening up well, and down to the 440 ft.
level is about the prettiest mining proposition in Broken
Hill.
-** * *
“ M.C.” : If N.S.W. liad not a ton of ironstone
it should still become a great iron-manufacturing State,
judging bv the experience of countries that have coal
mines near the seaboard. Much more coke than iron ore
is used in manufacturing steel rails, so if we had the organi-
sation it would pay’ better to even import ore from Yam pi
Sound (VV. A.) or Iron Island (Q.) than to import rails from
Europe. England imports ore from Spain, Germany-im-
ports large quantities from Sweden, and Pittsburg
(U.S.A.) gets ore from mines hundreds of miles away, in
fact if iron ore were carried from Cloncurrv to the nearest
coal it would not be a bigger undertaking than the
fetching of ore to Pittsburg. At present it sometimes
costs more to land Lithgow pig iron at an Australian
foundry than it does to bring the stuff from Scotland .
so, as to Protection, it is a case of whole hog-or nothing.
If’we are stupid enough to facilitate the dumping of
foreign iron, a small bonus on our own product will be
ineffective. In m iking a casting several brands of pig
iron and some scrap are often required, so a rebate might
be allowed on Scotch pig if it he necessary’ to use it. for
blending purposes —that is, until we manufacture half-a-
dozen brands ourselves.
* * * *
There is very little liability on Mt. David
(N.S.W.) shares, which to the mere punter is an adyan-
ta<>-e ; but in realitv, with so much development work to
do, it is a cause of' anxiety, and may sooner or later lead
to another reconstruction. Mt. David has sacked a good
many.hands, and is goiny slow with expensive develop-


Streng'th and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your Bankers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4&6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE C.M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANCE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF CWALIA 8.84 „
Australian Office:
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, ever}' small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. ) bag covers 10 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
ar.d scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
The Bischoff Extended Tin Mining Co. is
installing a most modern concentrating plant in their
mill just being erected to the design of their consulting
engineer, Mr. P. Fitzgerald. Callow screens, hydraulic
classifiers, jigs, grinding pans, Wilfley tables, Callow
settling tanks, and Wilfley slime tables. The whole of
these appliances are being manufactured by the Austral
Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, from whom
up-to-date information can be obtained as to the treat-
ment of all manner of ores.* [3
The Journal of Commerce, Liverpool, August,
1907, writes in its review' of the last annual report;—“ To
peruse the report and balance-sheet of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited for the year 1906-7
is to acquire proof of a typically successful, carefully
safeguarded, and economically managed modern insurance
office.”*
Users of steam power will be interested to
know that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a dep6t in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
n * * *
Cameron and Sutherland claim to carry the
largest stock of machinery of all kinds in Australasia, and
in support of this they ask all in want of mining-
machinery, motive power, lathes, drilling machines, and
mining supplies, to inspect the stock in their warehouses
in Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, and Bendigo. Quality
and price are right. Send for latest catalogue, post free.*
* * * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co,,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
The section of the American Fleet which has
arrived in our waters has eight battleships which are
fitted with the Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler,
Five of these ships are of the Connecticut class, including
the flagship itself. Engineers will be interested to note
that these five ships hold the record for economical
steaming from San Francisco. This is another strong
argumen t in favor of the adoption of the w-ater-tube boilers
in the navy and the mercantile service, as not only do
they save fuel, but they economise in space and very
materially in weight.* *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
Visitors to the Mephan Ferguson Engineering
Works, Melbourne, will notice that large additions have
recently been made to the premises, and new' machinery
laid dow-n in order to carry out some large contracts
which have been undertaken for the supply of railway
girders, water supply and irrigation pipes, etc. The tw-o
largest boilers ever manufactured in Victoria have just
been completed and tested for the Melbourne Harbor
Trust, and amongst other works in course of construction
the most interesting are the patent spiral riveted pipes
and electric welding machinery.*
* * * »
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colltson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
w'rite to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
« * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS.— Milling speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Dowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
To procure the most steady running power at
the lowest expenditure in working cost is a consumma-
tion devoutly to be wished by all users of machinery, and
no form of power yet discovered has reached this con-
summation so nearly as the “ Ruston ” Suction Gas
Engine. In this plant, which works equally well on coke
or charcoal, no steam boiler or gas holder is required :
there is no risk of fire, and as it is kept below atmospheric
pressure the possibility of gas escaping is eliminated. Its
running cost is about Id. per hour for IQ-b.h.p. Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney ; and 12S
William Street, Melbourne, will send an illustrated cata-
logue of this plant free on application.
LOHMANN <& COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
BOCHUM UNION
Sole Agents for
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables «
Large Stocks Always on Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. It
meat. In the levels from the winch winze there is a fair
quantity of payable stone left, but there is still some of
the old anxiety about the continuity of the shoot at
greater depth.
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) has got into the dol-
drums again. The last crushing gave very little if any
profit, and the working out of No. 17 level stopes makes
the management anxious to find payable stone below No.
18. In driving the main level and crosscutting into the
footwall some good stone has been met with, but in poor
quantity. Below No. 18 from the winze there is nothing
much to rejoice over. Still people hold on to these shares
on the chance of something unexpected happening, as
the history of the mine has been full of surprises. But
they haven’t all been pleasant surprises.
* * * *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) treated 3303 tons ore in its last
month for 101 tons copper and 618 oz. gold contained in
matte. The average gross value at present price of
copper would be over 50s. per ton of ore ; and as mining
and smelting cost 275. Id., a good margin is shown on the
production of matte.. But popper matte does not realise
anything like the gross value of metals contained in it,
so the monthly returns don’t tell what the real profit is.
The total costs were £5366, which would amount to about
£53 per ton of copper in the matte. It is evident that
when the cost of converting matte at Mount Morgan is
allowed for, also the cost of refining and realisation, the
profit on refined copper is not very much. Yet, reading
the report, which shows a margin of over 20s. per ton of
ore, and knowing that it takes roughly 33 tons of ore to a
ton of copper, one might imagine fine profits were being
made. No doubt, after electrolytic treatment, the gold
recovered would give the co. a profit; but 618 oz. of gold
per month is not much for such a big co., even if it is all
considered as profit.
* * * »
Principal Westralian results for August
Ton- Re- Value
nage. venue. Profit, per ton.
£ £ £
Great Boulder.. .. 16,083 49,679 25,807 30/11
Boulder Perseverance 18,012 26,432 6,085 6/9
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,637 41,966 21,086 21/5
Kalgoorlie .. .. 11,060 3,424 16,806 30/4
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,924 51,445 20,125 16/1
Fingall 22,234 27,200 5,007 4/6
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,906 16,006 ' 4,024 6/9
Sons of Gw 7 alia.. .. 13,002 18,524 5,207 8/-
Assoeiated .. .. 10,432 22,650 7,883 15/1
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,401 11,053 4,376 19/10
Maranoa .. .. 980 3,057
Associated Northern.. 3,737 8,216 3,521 18/10
Bake View Oonsols .. 8,541 10,129 2,620 6/1
South Kalgurli .. 9,033 12,502 2,219 4/10
Gwalia South .. .. 2,005 4,536 3,521 35/1
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,249 4,836 2,500 22/2
North White Feather.. 2,100 3,526 645 6/1
Greenmount .. . 1,360 1,565 329 4/9
Hainault .. .. 6,841 5,985 5,739 16/9
Vivien 3,084 ’ 4,456 182 1/2
Northern Mines .. 8,214 6,807 5 1/8
Golden Pole .. .. 839 2,739 555 13/2
The Lake View Consols profit includes £1502 earned from
the retreatment of slimes. The Ingliston Extended made
a loss of £396 on the treatment, of 265. lOd. ore.
Golden .Ridge (W.A.) has made a profit of
£ll,Oll for the five months past. When standingcharges
are deducted, the balance should just about cover the
present dividend ; but directly the additions to the treat-
ment plant are completed, capital expenditure will go
down and profits should go up.
The report of the Paringa Mines, Ltd., for
year ended March 31 states that the leases at Kalgoorlie
have been let on tribute, and that “ the income derived
during the term mentioned almost covered the cost of
maintaining the properties and the expenses of care-
taking, supervision, etc.” That is one way of putting it.
The other way would have been to say that the receipts
totalled £936, and the expenses a bit more (including
£699 for London office expenses, and £44 for local ditto).
Tne Board hasn’t a very high opinion of its present hold-
ings, and is hanging on to the cash in hand until something
better comes along. Which is all very well for the direc-
tors who draw fees and other perquisities, but is very
cheerless for shareholders who have to look on and see
their money gradually melt away.
'• * * *
Hannan’s Star (W.A.) has issued another annual
statement, showing- things not as they are at present, but
as they were at the end of 1907. At that time the cash
balance was £20,645, plus £1661 since collected from
sundry debtors ; but what has been mopped up in the
interim in looking for new mines and keeping the London
office in affluence is not stated. By underwriting the
Boulder Deep Levels assessment last year, the co. ren-
dered itself liable to be plugged to the extent of about
£lO,OOO. The balance sheet, shows that £7Oll has been
paid out on this account; but whether this represents
the co.’s full liability is a matter of guesswork. Develop-
ment work done during" the year in both the Hannan’s
Star and the Deep Levels is summarised, and the blunt
statement is made that the profit likely to be derived
from the bulk of the ore exposed in the properties is so
small that the Board cannot see its way clear to recom-
mend the erection of a treatment plant. This means that
either the Board hasn’t any faith in the gaudy estimates
previously given, or that it has other fish to fry. The
other fish may 7 be a property 7 which it probably thinks it
can sell to the co. at a profitable price.
* * * *
At the recent annual meeting chairman
Wanklyn told Sons of Gwalia shareholders that, in view
of the heavy 7 capital expenditure and the reduced value
of the general average of the ore reserves, a reduction in
the output was inevitable. Seeing that this was done on
VV. J. Boring’s recommendation, shareholders smothered
their disappointment and tried to look pleasant. Since
then the value of the mine has been enhanced as a result of
good developments; nevertheless another drop in the
output, and consequently still smaller dividends, is being
hinted at in London. What does all this mean? It is-
becoming very hard to take the London Board seriously.
The Carbine, at Kunanalling (W. A.), has been
hawked round the London offices of the Ivanhoe, Associ-
ated Northern, and other Westralian cos. So far, how-
ever, no business has resulted, and is not likely to, either.
Great Tower Hill Co. (W.A.) is again trying to
make terms with its creditors. Last year G. P. Doolette
fixed up a temporary 7 truce by arranging to pay 7 two in-
stalments of 20 per cent, and the balance when further
capital was raised. One Of these payunents was made, but
there appears to have been some difficulty about the
other. Now a cable has come out, stating- that £25,000
working capital is guaranteed, provided that the Aus-
tralian creditors accept 20 per cent, in cash and the
balance in preference shares. Some are inclined to ac-
cept, but others, w 7 ho are more irritated, talk about put-
ting the bailiff in, or taking some other drastic action.
A London financial paper says that among low-
priced Westralians Star of the East are as cheap as any -
thing-. Are they? On its record, the public ought to be
very shy of it. The co. was reconstructed times out of
number previous to 1908, and somewhere about last
January it was given another chance which it didn’t
deserve. Now developments are alleged to be promising,
and the shares are tipped to see higher prices ; and when
the same thing has happened before, it has simply meant
that the public was got in while some “ insiders” got
out.
* * * *
London and Westralian Explorations are being
ticketed “ worth attention,” in view of the improvement
in the Zinc Corporation. At the shareholders’ meeting,
held in April last, chairman Moreing said that the co.’s
holding in “Sinks” was over 50,000 ordinary and 15,000
preference shares. •
* * * *
A “ managing director” has arrived at Phillips
River (W. A.), and dumped his belongings on the Kauf-
man leases. It is understood he represents a German in-
terest which holds about 75 per cent, of the shares. A
special concentrating plant for the treatment of ore
below smelting grade, he says, is being made in Germany.
The field is, however, more interested for the moment in
the announcement that the co. is now prepared to buy
anything and everything in the shape of marketable ore.
But unless copper goes better, there will not be much in
that for somebody—either the miners or the buyers.
And generally it isn’t the buyers that suffer most.
■fr ♦ * *
The Pathway, at Buldania (W.A.), is being well
puffed, but as all the booming consists of vague remarks
it doesn’t count for much. Buldania’s failure in the early
days is attributed to its isolated position and, conse-
quently, prohibitive costs. Now that the Norseman rail-
way is coming along, these drawbacks, it is claimed, will
disappear, and the district is tipped to “ turn out gold by
the ton later on.” But the crowd behind Buldania, from
whom this talk comes, is a very good crowd to watch.
■* * * *
Next month the miners on the North Cool-
gardie and Mount Margaret fields (W.A.) will ask the
Arbitration Court for higher wages and better conditions.
The last award took effect towards the end of 1904 and
expired on February 28 this year. The employers urge
that the industry is depressed and that consequently the
time is inopportune or unripe or something of the same
old sort. But Arbitration Courts have an unfortunate
habit of asking for precise figures ; and then these vague
remarks don’t count.
* * * *
Sandstone Development (W. A.) has had a couple
of good crushings lately, which must have come in very
acceptably. On July 17 it cleaned up 494 tons for 4790 z.,
valued at £lBOO, with 4dwt. in the tailings, and on
Sept. 18 it cleaned up 596 tons for 16400 z., valued at £6OOO,
with 7dwt. in the tailings. The really most important
thing about th'e crushings, however, is that most of the
stone has come from the sinking of an underlay winze from
the 215 ft. level, in what are known as Juno No. 3 work-
ings. The shaft was sunk near the western boundary of
the Oroya-Black Range’s lease, and the reef was struck at
183 ft.—rather less than was at first anticipated. The
winze is now down to about 300 ft., and proves that the
reef has a dip of about 25 degrees into the Sandstone pro-
perty. From the data now accumulated it is pretty con-
fidently expected that the main (Juno No. 1) shaft will
meet the lode in about six or eight weeks’ time ; the pre-
sent depth is 350 ft. The doubt hitherto has been as to
how much of the Oroya-Black Range shoot the Sandstone
holds ; and, though no figures can be talked yet, things
are shaping very well indeed.
* * * *
Smith’s Creek (N.Q.) has got to the reconstruc-
tion stage again : the proposal now is to issue 100,000
shares, 21,985 of them preference, Is. being paid on or
before allotment, and 4s. being callable. This is the same
number of shares as at present. The plan is, of course,
“subject to the consent of pref. shareholders.” As,
however, the pref. shareholders will get their shares free
of cost, while the ordinaries will have to pay cash, the
scheme is more likely to make ordinary' holders think
hard. The co. is nearly £lOOO in debt, and, on past
results, can’t pay with the present equipment. Captain
Warren 12 months ago estimated that there were 41,000
tons of stone, averaging 2 - 9 per cent, oxide, above the
300 ft. level; and in the first half of 1907 he made a profit
of £6184 out of 6382 tons ore (177 tons black tin). Tin
(white metal) was then from £4O to £45 higher than its
present price. In view of the possibility of a recovery in
tin, it may pay “ordinaries” to backup instead of for-
feiting. But for the chances of an improvement in tin,
it wouldn’t be worth while seeing that the pref. holders
have a 10 per cent, cumulative preference.
* * » *
This looks like a good thing. The Lizzie, a
three-man tin show near Irvinebank (N.Q.), crushed 59
tons for 8 per cent, black tin. The ore was broken in six
weeks by two men, who also found time to do other
things. The shoot is 15ft. wide, and no wall has been
met with. The owners got their purchase money back
on the first crushing of 40 tons, with something over.
The Tommy Burns Tin Co. is being floated in
North Queensland and Sydney—the broker is J. H.
Brownlee, Chillagoe. The vendors get 160 shares and
£3OOO cash ; the public is asked to pay £l2 10s. each for
360 shares. There will be only £lOOO for the co. ; but, as
there is highly payable tin stone on the surface, the £lOOO
may be enough to prove whether Thomas’ quality is more
than skin-deep or not. All that can be said, on the word
of a reliable man who has seen it, is that it is a wonder-
fully good surface show. After that you’ve got to take
your chances. The promoters evidently wouldn’t take
any. “ Never punch a good face ” was their motto—and
a very good one for a man with a mine (and especially a
tin mine) to sell. Dalziel’s was a wonderfully good
surface show, some people will remember.
* * * *
Lawn Hills (N.Q.), where there are extensive
deposits of galena, and likewise enough zinc to be trouble-
some, is making ready for a start. One of the directors
is superintending the cleaning up of the plant to prepare
the way for an English general manager, who comes for-
ward in a couple of months.
The prospectors on the Mt. Usher field (Central
Q.) have just put through a 25-ton crushing for something
better than 2oz. per ton. Some time ago these miners
applied for Government assistance in picking up the old
Roxborough reef, but were so successful on starting work
that the help was passed on to another party, which was
trying to pick up the same line of reef on another claim.
The former appear to be on a likely proposition, and
expect great things from the old mine,
Dawson Valley (Q.) coal, which Mt. Morgan
has taken in hand, came flying through a State supervised
test made to see how it would answer in a suction-gas
plant—the sort of plant that is going to be a lot heard of
in future. The coal sent to Brisbane was hand-broken
and weathered ; yet it took only 1.461 b. to maintain 1-h.p.
per hour.
A small lot of rich stone crushed for the East
Mexican has not helped the Charters Towers market
much. No. 6 level, which produced the stone, is skirting
the boundarj', and on the strength of this small but rich
return punters are figuring out New Brilliant Freehold
ore reserves. Assuming. that No. 6 continues good, the
most optimistic calculation gives £BO,OOO worth of gold in
the 90ft. of backs above No. 7. At £5 a ton there would
have to be 16,000 tons of stone, or 16 times as much as
was taken from a drive 7ft. high and 400 ft. long. Esti-
mating costs at the same rate as Mills’ United’s (over £2 a
ton), there certainly is not more than 6s. a share profit
proved in the N. B. Freehold. Of course a lot of things
may happen in driving No. 7 another 800 ft. to the boun-
dary. Some things have, in fact, happened quite re-
cently ; for the Day Dawn widened out beyond a diorite
bar into a fine face of stone, and afterwards showed a
tendency to pinch. That values are erratic is shown by
the poor return of 27s* a ton from No. 8. This level, how-
ever, is likely to improve, for it will pass through favor-
able country* The branch hanging-wall levels have been
extensively developed on Mills’ United side of the boun-
dary, with fair results, and this is a hopeful sign for the
N. B. Freehold, which, however, in spite of its possi-
bilities, is heavily loaded as a speculation.
■» * * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, will crush
more stone than the last lot, which averaged £6 16s. 6d.
Some specimen stone has been met with, so shareholders
hope for a div. before Christmas. The longest level is in
243 ft. to the east, with less than 100 ft. of backs overhead
up to the Queen Central boundary. A winze is down
65ft. below this level on lOin. of fair stone. Bonnie
Dundee has not developed large ore reserves, and its best
level met with blank ground for a time ; but it seems
likely that the intermediate levels between 1420 ft. and
the boundary will provide some good stone. It is a
patchy show at best, however.
* * » ■*
Geologist Dunn two years back sang his song
about “ Illimitable Bendigo.” Since then the field has
been going down, down, until the echo of divi-
dends is not to be heard amid the wailing for
calls. Dunn doesn’t mind that. He gets as close
to the centre of the earth as the Victoria
Quartz shaft will let him, and, under the influence of 110
degrees at 4500 ft., pants out his refrain of Bendigo-go-go-
go ! Rich zones are to pitch down to 7000 ft. or 8000 ft.,
and “ the knowledge of this ” is to induce far deeper sink-
ing than is now carried on. Without smudging the fair
face of “ the illimitable ” field, the question can be asked
whence conies “ the knowledge of this”? The rich zones
have not been proved to carry their richness down to
4500 ft., otherwise New Chum Kailway, Victoria Quartz,
and Lazarus would be hives of industry instead of isolated
patches of individual effort. Catherine Reef also would
not be a 4dwt. show, and the deep mines on the Moon
line would be filling the pockets of shareholders instead
of draining' them. Geologically, there does not seem to
be any reason why the stone should not make down ; but
geologically and chemically there are reasons why the
best gold should be got nearest the surface. *
Poseidon (Yic.) has got another kick left. But
there isn’t any mule-like vigor in the effort, for the sim-
ple reason that big nuggets and payable patches have
alike been rare and far between. The best gold was shed
from the reef beside which the lead ran, and it is a Town
Hall organ to a cowbell that the present little nest of
nuggets represents the shedding from the same line of
reef. Hence there is established once again the old axiom
that if you want gold in the alluvial you mustn’t be far
from quartz.
Birthday, Berringa (Vic.), ought to surround its
last balance sheet with a black border. Gold won has
reached £354,345 ; dividends paid, £135,000. Now there is
a deficit of £191; and the co. is on the call list for the first
time. There is plenty of stone, but no gold at No. 12
level, and above that there is little quartz left worth
beating out. The co. now is driving for the big break at
the bottom level in a hit-or-miss frame of mind. If the
fault is hit and the gold missed, no one will be startled
to see calls go unpaid. Berringa mining all through
shows poverty at depth, and the Birthday may have
to transfer work to the surface to get on to gold.
* m * *
“F.C.” : The aftermath (I am not sure this is
the right word, but it looks pretty) of the late Caledonia
boom at Warrandyte (Vic.) has arrived in the shape of
plentiful recoveries of alluvial gold from old abandoned
shafts, near the Yarra, at the foot of Parson’s Gully.
These were quitted before owing to the flow' of water ;
but the sinking of the Caledonia and Caledonia South
shafts drained the ground, and now eight or ten parties
have bottomed on good stuff. The first who tried the old
spot—Squires and party—have been clearing from £6 to
£9 per man weekly, and now most of the men left in the
township are sinking' for their lives alongside. Unfor-
tunately there are but a few acres of ground to be
worked, and the “ rush ” will soon be over. Then “ the
Creek ” will be as dead as before, or deader.
“Manager” : Re Bromley’s Reef (Vic.). In
reply to remarks in B. 3/9/’OB here is the desired “slab of
truth.” Down to 120 ft. deep the reef now being worked
gave 1640 tons for £4250 worth of gold, showing a profit of
£lOOO. Does your scribe think this sufficient inducement
to sink deeper ? The reef is going strongly underfoot and
showing gold. If no Micawffiers existed, what price any
developmen ts at depth ?
Fancy Creek (Tas.) is a small tin pot that never
had a chance to get above a “ pennier ” even during the
heat of the tin boom. There was plenty of ground, and
facilities for cheap working, provided the water was on
the ground. Two years has driven this last little fact
into certain noddles. Now more capital is to be got,
though so late that, with the dry season on again, there
isn’t a great chance of bigger work and improved yields
till next winter. As there isn’t too much tin in the
ground at any time, such idling is inexcusable.
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) still heads the Common-
wealth list of tin mines, with an output of 76 tons for
August. The Vulcan (N. Queensland) produced 72 tons of
concentrates for three weeks’ work, which is a vast im-
provement. Value is not given ; but Vulcan concentrates
have been realising lately as low as £5O a ton. Stannary
Hills (Queensland), which produced 17 tons 6cwt. in a fort-
night, estimates the value of its lot at £1420, or £B2 per
ton ; but if they give a net return of anything like that, the
co. must have an exceedingly good contract.
Moonta and Wallaroo (S.A.) keep a sharp eye
on the copper quotations these times. For months past
the market has been wobbling around £6O. If it gets
beyond that as an average for a month, up go wages 10
per cent, two months later. In August the 10 per cent,
was in doubt until the last few days of the month; but
luck was on the men’s side, and there were a few shil-
lings to spare, so the rise will be payable in October.
“ The Peninsula ” can stand a lot of that, though ; for
things have been deadly lately. As compared with even
the latter half of 1907,'the output from January to June
shrank from 3191 to 2115 tons, and the value from £226,375
to £124,864.
» * * *
Alpha: An advt Pater: It will pay you
better to go to the Savings Bank Spec: Don’t think
it’s worth the risk Spartan: Of that lot, Goulburn
Gas M.N. : We’re not in the tipping business F.
Seorse : If you were in Berlin and met a man who was
hawking Australian Government stock (alleged) there,
vou’d probably be suspicious. Well, turn the table up-
side down, and reckon what your chances are in buying
Berlin or some other- Continental stock (alleged) in
Australia.
* * * *
Justice Higgins, of the High Court, had the
Wheal Ellen (WTA.) flotation business before him in Mel-
bourne last week, and gave a verdict for the co. and against
J. S. Read. Also he added some stinging remarks about
Exchange flotation practices. Read, a reputable Perth
broker, brought over some specimens from the West, and,
getting Peacock’s office to take up the co. which he had in
his mind, the concern was rushed. Nobody troubled about
terms ; there wasn’t even time to get out a prospectus. The
thing was an awful fizzle ; and then, nosing around, some
of them found out that Read had made a bit out of the
float, and hadn’t disclosed it to the co. Justice Higgins
held that, as a promoter, Read was bound to disclose
everything, and that what he took was really a secret
commission. Nobody who wasn’t bitten has much sym-
pathy for those who rushed the thing ; but it will make
promoters a bit more careful in future.
* » * *
The fifth whale, a monster of 55ft., has been
added to the season’s record at Eden (N.S.W.). The
fishermen are in good heart, and talk of mythical days
when their ancestors rolled in affluence and the whales
were so thick in the bay that they died of suffocation.
The whaler is like the gold-digger—luck is always before
him.
Hercules (Tas.), which missed the ’bus so badly
while the metal markets boomed, saw its profit and loss
balance dwindle last half-year from £19,061 to £18,072,
showing a loss of £989. Most of that trouble arose from
the shut-down of the West Coast smelters ; wherefore
only 3608 tons were sent out during: the half-year. The
co. had over 100,000 tons of sulphides proved six months
agfo, and recent developments have been good; but the
workings are unsteady, and the co. will have a tough job
in getting some of it out, especially the rich zirtc-blende.
The co. still has £5324 in cash. Paid capital is very small
(150,000 shares at 6d. = £3750). Previous half-year’s net
profit was £3769 ; in the boom half-year before that,
£8276.


TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemist refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l|d.
POSTAL EDUCATION]
BEARS GOOD FRUIT
&
£5O
&
High Salaries and splendid prospects are
?• opened up to those young men and women
15..,. who use rightly their spare evening hours i
in mastering our courses of Postal
Besides all general educational
subjects we teach by easy and simple
yet thorough methods:
Bookkeeping, Business Penmanship and
Correspondence, Arithmetic, Shorthand,
ypewriting, etc.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, etc.
"HOME STUDY."
JdAS J.33HJ.S 31
3QIi > TTOO SS9LMISAQ
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
MS
l wfA
11//U
“MAKE BOTH ENDS MEET!”
By calling or sending for Patterns and
Self-Measurement Forms for a hand“
some/y-tailored Suit—“ to your order ! ”
70/- SAC SUIT for 50/-
Lincoln Stuart Co. Pty. Ltd.
r\ FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
UNANSWERABLE.
MR. BLAZER: “ Why did you kick that doy!
He only sniffed you !”
MR. HOOFWALKER: “ Well, yer didn't expect me
to wait till he tasted me, did yer ?”
“J.G.”: Re the water hyacinth (B.
3/9/’08). lam expecting to hear this waterflower
heavily cursed by the Victorian up-country
cookies some of these days. A lovely sample of
it is being grown in a tub by the Bendigo city
council in Rosalind Park, right on the brink of
Bendigo creek. The hyacinth seems to be flourish-
ing in the tub, too, and it won’t be long before
some of it crawls down into the creek, or else is
pitched in there by some fool or other. Then
probably parts of the plant will go sailing down
the Bendigo stream until it drops anchor some-
where, and starts and chokes the creek up, and it
will get into Bullock Creek, or the Loddon River,
or Bent’s new Waranga channel, when the channel
has the water turned into it. When the water
hyacinth chokes these waterways to death, the
floods upon the plain country will be something
wonderful in wet time. And many a washed-out
cocky will rise up in his wrath and curse that
innocent tub and the innocent-looking tubbed
plant in the Bendigo Park.
“Pick”: Re journeys per boot. Soule
years ago, when go-as-you-please contests were
popular on the sports programmes of Monaro
athletic clubs, Jack Hurley, a Cooma long-distance
ped, engaged the four-horse Cooma-to-Nimity-
belle (23 miles) coach on foot, and won, with some
minutes to spare. Prompted by the glory which
Hurley thus dragged down upon himself, Bill
Tang, a half-caste Chinese, rashly undertook to
race the coach on to Bombala, 31 miles
further. He led to Bibbenluke (23 miles), but
then petered out. The coach arrived at Bombala
ahead of time, but Tang spent that night and much
of the next week in the Bibbenluke shearers’ hut.
“10-2-4”: “An Englishman in Aus-
tralia,” whom Sydney Evening News quoted
recently as objecting to Australia on the ground
that there was no sea-fishing for amateurs off its
coast, “as in the English Channel,” is strangely
stultified by E. Clephan Palmer in a current
issue of the London Daily Mail. Discoursing
(11/8/’08) on the potential joys of the English
Channel, he says :
This is in praise of an open boat and a six-knot breeze
and the sea.
What more need a man want when the sun is hot and
he has a fortnight that he is allowed to call his own? But
it is not easy to fret such a boat. I find that I am ex-
pected at most seaside places to sit on the beach or listen
to a band on the pier. If lam not fortunate enough to
have a boat of my own, I am not allowed to go for a sail
unless Iput myself in the charge of a man who has been
duly licensed by the local council to take care of me.
Although, as an Englishman, I am supposed to know
something about the sea, I am not permitted to go alone
on the sea in any sailing boat except my own.
When, the other day, I left London and went to
Brighton to find the nearest breeze, I was expected to
stay on the hot land. Therefore I went on to Worthing,
hoping for better things ; but in vain. At Bognor I had
the same experience, and it was only when I arrived, hot
and desperate, at Littlehampton that I was able to get
what I wanted. There I escaped at last from the man
who had been licensed by the council to take care of me,
and I found men who were willing to let me have a boat.
I had the sea entirely to myself. No other boat was
visible except that on the horizon I could see a thin line
of smoke left by some steamer. All round me was the
great, neglected sea, and I alone saw the sun setting
on the water and the darkening of the purple Sussex hills.
The parade was crowded when 1 drifted slowly into the
harbor and anchored the boat for the night.
And this empty waste of sea occurred in August,
the month when such line-fishing as British
coastal waters provide is at its height. The truth
is that not one Englishman in a thousand ever
dreams of braving the Channel in a boat suitable
for line fishing. It is a rare type of Englishman
who dreams of even talking about the merits of
amateur sea-fishing olf the English coast; when
found he is invariably 12,000 or 15,000 miles from
that fishless region.
* * * *
“ Edyson ” : It was noon on a white-hot
December day, and Cadwallader had tramped 10
miles under a heavy swag, with ballast in the
shape of maul, wedges, and a brace of axes.
He was baked as dry as lime when he came
within sight of a farmhouse and about 50
acres of stubble land, and rejoiced at
the prospect of rest and moist refresh-
inent. Then a maniacal yell broke
upon his musing, followed by two
gunshots, and about a peek of slugs
tore through his hat. Cadwallader
fled behind a tree and cautiously
investigated. In the middle of
the stubble land was a large,
woolly man, dressed in his
whiskers and his boots, rushing
hither and thither in a frenzy
of enthusiasm, and occasionally
taking pot shots at circum-
stances in general. The sport
had a magazine rifle and a
stock of cartridges. When he
had blazed at nothing in 20
directions, he tore off to a
stump and replenished his im-
plement, and Cadwallader took
the wide way round, and called
up the house. He was answered
by a patient, raw-boned woman
who gave him tea and a meal,
and, while he ate, the crank
out in the paddock continued
shooting wounds in the atmos-
phere. Cadwallader wa3 curious,
and hinted that the rifleman
was a menace to life and limb.
and should be seen to. “Oh, don’
mind him, mister,” said the patient
woman. “That’s my Dan. When he’s
been on the drink he always winds up with a
good day's shootin’.” Dan was shooting his
fantods.
* * * *
“Harry”: Speaking of bush directions,
did you ever hear of the “mud map”? (ought to
be in capitals). Some bush “ characters ” —mostly
old blokes, or coves, or chaps—cannot direct you
anywhere, no matter how near the place or easy
to find, without saying, “ Jes-wait-an’-I’ll-show-
yer-Look-here,” and they squat down leisurely on
their heels to make a map or plan of the
route in the dust or mud, with a stick. You squat
on your heels, opposite, sort of politely—stranger’s
politeness—and, presently, you become kind of
mesmerised, or hypnotised, so to speak. He
makes scratches and explains at length, and
says “See?” all the time, and you say “Icy”
every time he Says “See?” but you don’t “Icy”
at all. The usual complicated directions are more
complicated by the map, and they become more
and more tangled as they go on. He says:
“This is a sliprail, an’ you take this track here
an’ turn off here to yer left an’ ” —all the rest of
it, and you “Icy” all the time, but you “Icy”
all wrong, for, lo and behold ! the map is upside
down to you, and when he scratches aline straight
in the direction of your right big toe and tells you
to go that way, from your point of view you
should go the opposite. When he says, “Go that
way,” you should go the other way, don’t you see?
(I’m getting as mixed as you and he will be by
this time.) And it never strikes the old wombat
from his point of view. But think it out.
TAKING NO RISKS.
STIVE: “I hear you’ve taken the pledge, Mike.
Is it true?”
MIKE: “’ Tis; hut for Heaven's sake don't let it
get about, or devil a man in the town ’ll
shout for me.”
THE SKIED PILOT.
A country minister suggested at the Presbyterian Con-
ference that riding lessons be included in the curriculum
for theological students. —Morning paper.
Pass dag at the College should provide plenty
of excitement.
Something is always going wrong with
these Australian tigers—they seem to be all of
the same breed as G. Reid’s An'ti-Sosh, man-
eating monster, which turned out,on close inspec-
tion to be a good, reliable, domestic tabby, and a
safe and energetic mouser. Lately the‘‘Tanta-
noola Tiger” broke loose again, and the Adelaide
daily paper correspondents at Snowtown Mt.
lempleton and thereabouts were kept busy e
cording the fleeting glimpses which t le
inhabitant had got of the roving beast. At la.t
the monster made its way into the poultry yard
of an old lady, Mrs. Carter, who lives about a
mile from the town, and she effected its capture.”
It was “a full-grown wombat.”
“ Henry Phelt-
hatt ” : The bush
matron has an in-
fallible memory for
ages. Working on
the contemporane-
ous event system,
she plunges into
figures like an actu-
ary. It’s not a bit
of use, for instance,
of Agnes Hardware
being just turned
21. “Agnes Hard-
ware ? ” she will say.
“Agnes? Let me
see. Agnes was born
the day after my
pore ’Enery took
bad. I remember
it so well because
they sent for me, an’
I couldn’t come.
’Enery was buried
on the 19th of Sep-
tember, the time of
the heavy rain. Her
an’ Bella Young is
in the same month.
Bella’s a year older
than Spearses’ Liza.
Liza that’s Mrs.
Delver that is now—
her an’ Lizzie Plumb
was children to-
gether ; Liza bein’
like in the Septem-
ber, as Lizzie was
in the November
followin’. There was
a lot about of an
age. My Fanny
here was in the De-
cember, the very
night as Joe the
Marine was took up for
sly-grog sellin’. Now, how
I know Agnes’ age so well
is, when Mrs. Hardware come
over to see me with Fanny, Agnes
was running about everywhere. She had
a sore mouth, an’ I remember tellin’ her mother
she ought to wean her. I couldn’t be mistaken,
for she was the on’y one of Mrs. Hardware’s thgt
had a sore mouth. My Fanny s2B on the 12th of
December, that would leave Agnes what I thought
—29 on the 10th of this October cornin’.” There
is a motto among bush girls: “ Never mention
ages to your mother.”
“ Jabez,” about Arab steeds and things :
James Boueaut’s stud of Arab horses was broken up
last week. For years the S. A. ex-Supreme Court Judge
had gone in for Arab breeding as a hobby at Quambi,
near Mount Barker (S. A.). He never got anything of a
verv remarkable character, in which respect he resembled
Wilfred Blount and every other enthusiast I have ever-
heard of who has tried raising Arabs away from the land
of deserts. Blount bred Arabs for a while at Crabbet
Park, Iris home in Kent. But the result was unsatis-
factory, and so he hied him to the desert, and on a handy
oasis plunged with ardor into his hobby. Boucaut
shared with Blount an exaggerated opinion of the
merits of these horses. The prices asked (though seldom
realised) at tl*e annual sales at Crabbet Park were hair-
raisingtothe plain horse-buyer, and the same remark
applies to the Quambi figures. In any ease the average
Briton or Australian refuses to take the Arab quite
seriously as a workaday steed. As a fact, it_ is next to
impossible to meet what the native Arab citizen calls a
“ pure Arab horse” away from the land of these creatures’
birth. The best of the mares are not exported. I hold,
heresv though it may seem, that even when you strike a
high-class Arab horse in the country of its origin, it is
nothing to rave about. The Arab can’t jump, and, com-
pared with' our blood horses, it is deadly slow. Its good
points are stamina, clean, flat legs, good feet, and
docility ; though the latter quality was lacking in most of
the Arab entires I have struck in my time.
* * * *
When a Papuan dies from sickness it is,
according to the native belief, because an enemy
has poisoned him. A Hear relative of the deceased
frequently accuses some one likely to
have had a grudge against the late
departed, and, on the strength of the
suspicion, kills him. This little habit
led to considerable mortality, and, to
put it down, Governor Macgregor ap-
pointed native constables in each vil-
lage. They were instructed to take
persons accused of this style of poison-
ing to the nearest police-station and
charge them with “ poley-poley,” the
native term for the offence. The
magistrates were instructed to allot
them from one to three months’ im-
prisonment —with liberal allowances of
tobacco and food. As young, vigorous
people who could put up a good fight
were rarely accused, quite a number of
old niggers had a real good time, and
the suspicious relatives of the departed
were satisfied that justice had been
done. The only drawback to the sys-
tem was that the missionaries used
the belief to increase congregations, by
threatening to accuse the young people
of poley-poley if they neglected to
attend Divine service.
* * * *
James P. Boucaufc writes :
Harry Stockdale’s description (3/9/’08) of the environ-
ment of the Arab horse as having:, for some 1400 or 1500
years, been flat, sandy country is most misleading. There
is, of course, a lot of sandy desert where he lives, but (to
quote at random from two books on Arabia that happen
to lie beside me as I write) there are also fields decked
with undying verdure and an atmosphere loaded with
spicy odors,” and the hills in parts are “ exceptionally
fertile.'” Again, “if ever Arabia Felix comes into the
hands of a civilised nation, it will be capable of great
development.” There are in Arabia immense masses of
rock and mountain, some almost impassable. Yet
innumerable travellers have had good cause to praise the
wonderful sure-footedness of the indigenous horses whicli
they rode over these rough places. And most of the
steeds that carried them so well were only crossbreds. It
is a pity that erroneous and unfounded statements should
be so rife concerning the grandest horse humanity has
yet known.
THE FALLEN TREE HOTEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the lonesome line of traffic,
Where the Tumberumba track
Porks for Bago, and for Taradale as well,
Where the wallabies and wombats
And the kangaroos have combats,
I once beheld the Fallen Tree Hotel.
And the owners of the hostel
Were two coachmen on the line —
Jack Galvin and another known as Ned,
Who bravely ploughed the highways
And the lonesome tracks and by-ways
With lots of falling timber overhead.
Now the pub was never licensed,
There were boarders never one,
No billiards and no tap-room, and for bar
There was just the muddy highway.
And the lamps hung in the skyway,
The ever-changing moon or gleaming star.
Once a mighty tree had fallen,
Was it gum ? I cannot tell—
But ’twas partly burnt and hollow at the end,
And into this a frisky
Little bottle of good whisky
Was hidden well from sight you may depend.
And twice a week ’twas empty,
And twice a week ’twas full.
Both Jack and Ned maintained the measure well,
And nightly drank and boasted
To the wallabies, and toasted
Each other at the Fallen Tree Hotel.
But, alas ! some drovers voted
For “ Reduction,” and the tree—
The Fallen Tree Hotel—was soon in flames.
But the langauge isn’t printed
That could register unstinted,
The record of those adjectival names
That the drivers called the drovers,
That the drovers called their luck,
That burnt a flask of whisky, but there fell
A cloud of gloom—a sadness,
And a momentary madness
Around the ashes of the Fallen Tree Hotel.
N.S.W.
THE PROOSHAN.
THE DEAD DIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Any person dying aboard a pearling lugger must be
brought in for police inspection.
The calm came down, the sun glowed red,
A lugger lingered with her dead.
They laid him on the cabin floor,
And sealed hint in with bolted door.
For three long days he slept so still,
And then he waked, and walked, until
The crew did feel him, brown and stark
Creeping upon them thro’ the dark.
(He seemed before them, on the deck,
A purple line pinched in his neck !)
“ Oh, throw me to the sea,” he said,
“ Oh, throw me in, for I be dead ! ”
And every night, when it was dark,
The crew did hear him, grim and stark,
“ Oh, give me to the sea,” he sighed,
“ Give me the pearls, for which I died.”
QUEENSLAND.
S. S. SEVERN.


Of all the silly proverbs, one
Whose vogue should be diminished,
Is: “ Woman’s work is never done 1 ”
it should be : “ Never finished ! ”
She’s always working, understand,
To keep the home together,
And has Woods’ Peppermint Cure on hand
For colds in wintry weather.*
111-health is what everyone hates,
Good health is the best of all mates ;
To secure it you must
Laxo-Tonic Pills trust;
The best asset we have in the States.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10id. and Is. 6d.*
Wristlet Watches
Are the Latest Rage.
THEY HAVE COME TO STAY.
WHY?
They are so convenient.
Fashion’s decree of no pocket calls
for some safe way to carry a
Watch.
They have a very handsome
appearance.
They are distinguished-looking.
We make them.
■m. 71
he
Fine Lever Watch, 15 jewels, in the new expanding Bracelet,
from £7 7s. upwards. Set round with Pearls, £ll 11s.
We set them with diamonds, with pearls, with turquoises, and in plain gold.
We sell only reliable Lever Watches at Bedrock Prices.
PLAIN FICUREBI
CASH. J
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
The wandering “Yigilans” writes from
Hornet Bank (Q.): —
This squattage, 30 miles from Taroom and 85 from the
Western line, is one of the Queensland stations with a
history. Taken up by Andrew Scott in the early ’fifties,
it was leased to R. T. Fraser, who with his wife, six
children and servant was ruthlessly slaughtered by
the blacks in 1857. Old inhabitants of the Dawson still
tell vivid tales of the massacre. On a night when
the family, having every confidence in the natives, slept
with doors open, they were attacked by 40 or 50 savages.
The mother was kept until the last; her children were
murdered before her eyes. One son escaped. This lad
rolled from the bed in the dark, and, hiding beneath a
sheet of bark, remained concealed until the tragedy was
complete and the blacks had left with their loot. But
the horrible experience unhinged him ; he became a
mental and physical wreck and died soon afterwards.
This youth, as soon as he could get away, rode to
Ipswich, some 200 miles, and acquainted the police. The
reply was quick and decisive —no quarter was given. For
12 months afterwards one brother, who was away at the
time,Wrought his vengeance; and even to-day the few
remaining old aborigines start at the mere mention of his
name.
VERY WILLING.
“if I gave you your dinner , would you mind a
little hard work?”
“ I would , indeed, lady — I’d mind it for hours."
“ Invicfca ” : I visited Mount Morgan (Q.)
the other day, and noticed a large number of the
children with drooping shoulders. I remarked to
a bystander, “ What funny shoulders the children
round here have!” Said he, “Oh, they are
hipped down from running the cutter.” I might
mention that “running the cutter” in my day
was going to the pub with a billy-can and bring-
ing it back full of beer. At Mount Morgan they
use kerosene tins, which is just as inhuman an
arrangement as the 3501 b. bag of wheat. There
should be some limit to the deadweight of beer
that a child may be asked to carry.
ANOTHER FLEET
RECEPTION.
When the Makambo left Tulagi.
the residence of Mr. C. M. Wood-
ford, the British Commissioner,
H.M.S. Cambrian, of the Australian
squadron, was at anchor there. The
warship had, he stated, taken Mr.
Woodford aboard, and stone to
Marovo Lagoon, in the Solomons,
to punish the murderers of Mr.
Byrnes, who lost his life three or
four months ago. A party of 75
marines was landed, but after
traversing the island for three days
they reported that they had not
seen one native. The entire popu-
lation had, in all probability, re-
tired to the hills.
KING KAKUMBOKO: "My people,
a man-of-war from King
Ned's mighty Fleet is about
to honor us with a visit, in order to re-
dye the crimson thread. Let us get a move
on, and we can obtain an excellent view from the
summit of yonder hill."
“ W.D.Y.” : Talking of outsize stingrays
(B. 3/9/’08), I remember some twelve years ago
seeiiig one on the beach at Geelong which tipped
the, scale at 4831 b. It had been harpooned by
some fishermen a few yards from the Corio Bay
rowing shed, off that portion of the wharf known
as the Fisherman’s Jetty. A few minutes before the
monster’s beachment one of the members of the
Rowing Club swam out to this jetty and back
again. When the ’ray was caught the swimmer
gasped gently thrice, and then shut up like a
dead telescope.
* * * *
“ Mij Rennat” : What a boding black
horror the crow is when you get lost ! Was at
Bulong (W.A.) in the early day of the fields. A
mate and I (we were camped at White Feather —
since Kanowna) started to walk across country to
town, distant about ten miles. We set off at day-
light. There was not a sign of a bird for a couple
of hours. Then a
crow, roosting a
couple of hundred
yards away, gave
us the idea we
were off the track.
Later, seven more
crows sitting on
mulga bushes
made us absolutely
sure of the fact.
We had foolishly
started without
water, and it was
getting hot. By
midday we found
we were “ring-
ing.” The tally
of crows had in-
creased to 20.
They were get-
ting closer, and
no quantity of
stonesor language
shifted them for
any length of time.
Three o’clock saw
us beat and rest-
ing in the shade,
waiting for the
cool of the even-
ing. The crows
had increased in
number, and
squatted in a circle
round us, the only
sound being an
occasional flap as
one shifted its
position, appar-
i ently to get a
I better view. The
sensation was like
nothing I’d ever
; read about. At
i sunset, a light
breeze sprang up ;
' we “smelt camel,”
and, making up wind, struck the “ pad,” and later
overtook the “train” and water. In fact, we
were saved ! That’s the story in its entirety, and
if I haven’t indicated the horribleness of the situ-
ation when crows come and sit round you, put it
down to my literary demerits. It was there in
full measure all right.
They are talking shearing records again at
the back of Queensland. At Alice Downs, where
Jack Howe, in 1897, undressed 327 full-fleeced
sheep in seven hours and 20 minutes, E. Dean,
this year, is reported to have beaten Howe’s tally
for a week. For four days Dean’s figures were—
-217, 261, 260, 283. Jimmy Beer, who lost his life
while farm-burning in Chow Africa, put through
315 at Barenga in eight hours. Some other red-
hot tallies are: Sid Ross, at Belalia, in 1884, put
through nine lambs in nine minutes ; at Ever-
sham, in 1866, Jimmy Fisher shore 50 lambs
before breakfast in 110 minutes: atj Charlotte
Plains, Warrego, in 1885, Alick Miller handled
4362 sheep in 21 days.
Messrs. Dutton and Aunger relate some
quaint incidents of their transcontinental motor
trip. At Tennant’s Creek they received a shock
when they found all the aborigines whitewashed.
They were rubbed all over—from the youngest to
the oldest—with pipeclay. There was one man
amongst the lot who knew a few words of English
sufficient to explain that the tribe was in mourn-
ing for the loss of a chief. While they remain in
mourning no one speaks. It was only out of
courtesy to the travellers that the native with the
fragment of English was allowed to make known
the state of affairs. As they advanced farther
into the continent, the tribes, which in the south
were dark-colored and fairly well-proportioned,
became more scraggy and lighter in hue. They
showed considerable ability in the manufacture of
stone weapons. Numerous long dagger-like spear
points were artistically chipped and mounted on
sticks. At Daly Waters the motorists encountered
one of the laziest tribes met with on the journey.
The men bask in the sun all day, and
send their wives out to gather food, which
mostly consists of berries, lizards and gohannas.
From the tails of the gohannas the baskers make in
clay pots a sort of soup, which is said to have a
semi-intoxicating effect. Although offered some
of this concoction, which is regarded as a great
luxury, the travellers didn’t indulge. Aunger
pleaded toothache, and Dutton signified by signs
that he was suffering from cramps. The tourists
game bag was a fairly heavy one, comprising two
alligators, 17 wild dogs, several kangaroos, 14
turkeys, 27 gohannas, and numerous hawks, parrots
and cockatoos.
* * * *
“ The Lizard” holds forth :
It is up to “ Boronia ” (B. 3/9/’08) to defend himself, but
in doing so it would be better not to attribute anxiety to
prove him incompetent—there is no necessity for anxiety
in this direction. It is a matter of common knowledge
that there is more than one variety of poison plant in
Westralia; as a matter of fact, there are some 50
plants supposed to be more or less poisonous which
are indigenous to W.A., the principal being “ Breetya
(Gastrolobium Bidens ), “Heart Leaf” ( G . Bilobum ),
“ Rock ” (G. Callistachys), “ York Road ” (<?. Calycinum),
“Desert” ((?. Grandiflorum), “Runner” ((?. Ovali-
folium,), “Small-leaved” (<?. Parvifolium), “Prickly’
(Q. Spinosum ), “Wedge-leaved” ( Oxylobium Cunea-
turn), “ Box ” (0. Parviflorum ), “ Bloom ” (0. Retusum)y
“Blind Grass” ( Stypandra glauca), “Zamia Palm”
(Macrozarnia Fraseri). As far as Heart Leaf is concerned,
it is restricted to a very limited area, principally in the
extreme south-west of the State ; but the York Road and
Box (in its various forms, “Sand Plain,” “Narrow
Leaf,” “ Marlock ”) are found in most of the agricultural
districts. However, there are tens of thousands of acres
—I might say, without fear of contradiction, that there
are hundreds of thousands of acres —of Crown lands avail-
able for selection without an atom of poison on them, so
there is no necessity for selectors to take poison-infested
areas at all.
“Boronia” (B. 2/7/’08), in his endeavor to set the
“ Groper ” right as to the possibility of eradicating the
poison plant, states “you simply cannot do it.” This
statement is not qualified by any reference to the Heart
Leaf poison to which “ Boronia ” refers in his paragraph
of 3/9/’OB. Why Heart Leaf is singled out “ Boronia”
alone knows—old Westralian farmers consider York Road
harder to eradicate, and yet it has been done at a very
slight cost notwithstanding' the fact that the seeds may
lie dormant in the ground for many years, to be germi-
nated after a fire has passed over the land. Certainly,
systematic measures must be adopted. Possibly the
knowledge that they had no preventive available has in-
duced a certain fatalism in stock-owners, but such a
simple remedy as permanganate of potash (Condy’s Crys-
tals) has done a good deal to remove the dread that the
poison plants have been responsible for. An excellent
antidote, based on these crystals, is now being distributed
by the W.A. Department of Agriculture free of charge,
and the splendid results obtained from the use of same
are reported in the Agricultural Journal for July, 1908.
THE SWEETEST SOUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When down the dusty track you go by timber-belt and
plain
To strike the one-horse township far ahead.
You hanker for the evening cool when you’ll come back
again,
The west aflame with failing sunset-red.
Above the still boughs, soundless in the drowsy morning’s
heat,
The stutter-bird calls every now and then:
“Wha-what do you did-do it for?” in liquid accents
sweet,
From leafy deeps beyond your dusty ken.
And casual magpies watch you as you amble gently by
And chyack you in language hardly fit;
The solemn crow flaps slowly with a calculating eye,
Thinking on how he’d love to pick a bit.
Dust in the road, and mounting dust around you as you
ride ;
Dry in your throat the warm, unrippled air;
Pleasant the thought of those cool hours before the
breezes died
When now the heat-waves prickle through your hair.
But presently the first white roof shows quivering through
the trees,
It is a sight that thrills you through and through
With that same joy that thrills the beerless sailor when
he sees
Green headlands swelling up from out the blue.
And, with the thump and thudding of your plodding,
dusty hack,
The sweetest sound that comes upon your ear,
Beyond the burbling noises of the birds above your track
Is Bill Brown’s greeting : “ Come ’»’ ’ave a beer ! ”
Bill Brown comes out and drags you in, and Bill’s the
first to shout,
And with the quenching draught your troubles fly—
Sad thoughts of shrewd camp-spiders and wild bull-ants
blotted out
And damper-dreams reserved for by-and-bye.
Still, we are strong on temperance, and twenty is enough,
And we must separate at last. We go
With loud farewells—affectionate, or drowsy-toned, or
gruff,
According as the beer allows, you know.
And, as you go your homeward way, the red horizon
glows
A special glow, and as it glows you think
On how the sweetest sound the thirsty, dusty bushman
knows
Is that warm welcome, “ Come 'ave a drink! ”
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. -A dine aim
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.S.A.: We don’t advocate Eden itself as the
Australian capital, for the simple reason that the habit
of putting the banks, the Treasury, the arsenals, and all
the machinery of government right on the seashore, and
handy to the first enemy, has been already carried a great
deal too far in Australia. The selection of Dalgety (with
Eden as a Federal port) was partly because of the town s
defensible condition F.: (1) You sent your book foi
review ; (2) because the review wasn t quite so favoiaoie
as you wanted, you become raving mad, and call the
reviewer “swine” and a “disgrace to manhood ,
you send along one favorable notice by an obscure
provincial paper, and whoop greatly. You die
an interesting but humorless cuss J ° ca ‘°'
Jawbone Neild oded the mosquito years ago
and, as a result, all self-respecting versifiers have blushed
at that stinging-bird’s name ever since... .Koodoo . xai
re Eaglevale Jimmy is better than the faint pencilled
handwriting in which it is Inscribed. That is the kindliest
remark we can think of in connection with it....Kew
Chum :No one but a man with a pen-name like u
would try to ring in on us that aged yarn of the Jibun g
mare, the fire which was lit under her, and the cart
which was burned. Jehu shifted his horse that MJ
when he started for Jezreel.. Hill: lale entitled Curly,
and concluding “In one of the most notorious gaming
houses out West, there’s a girl who has the name
of sending more men to the Devil than she can count,
they call her Curly,” lias gone where curls and
gaming are alike impracticable owing to the heat....
E.M. : There was nothing “objectionable m your tale
of the ill-used horse ; it was just poorly written at a
uninteresting. If we thought that it would do any good in
the way of putting down horse-cruelty it would go m all
the same, but we don’t fancy it would. ..VV.lt. . lriat
dirty joke about the boy who wasn t a violet has reached
us at least 20 times of late. Where is everybody stealing
it from ? J.M. : Your “ suicide tale did not meet u ith
our approval. We don’t feel like committing suicide...
W McE.: This office fails, as one man, to grasp the pur-
port of “ A Tragedy.” Is it serious or comic, an acrostic
or an entry for a missing-word competition t late, ioi
example, the last five lines:
Now these are gone, I die ;
1 die, good-bye beloved,
Good-bye, good-bye
..1 » .. oh bye
Ugh, ugh, ’ye, h bye.
.Snooks: Take the brick as heaved .LuW. (S. A.):
Gently pathetic, but quite undistinguished in style ana
treatment Old Times: Hardly worth the space it
would occupy.. ..Republican : Of no literary value
B E S • Agreeably terse, but otherwise scarcely up to
tlie mark.... 8.G.: “The Dry Microbe ”is very dry....
Sam W.: Sorry to have to turn it down. There is great
“go” in it, but the blunders are too formidable......
P.H.D.: Merely a weak imitation of Lawson...... r our
Square : You are on the right track, but you haven t yet
learned to leave out the inessential.. . .O.W.A. : An in-
effective explosion of long words Witch : Your astral
readings, or whatever they are, do not appeal to u 5....
Boree : Points about both, but neither touches high-
water mark... .F.H.F. : That joke about the dirty boy
who was to be “learned, not smelled,” has come to
us at least 20 times in the last few weeks,
and the people who sent it have sworn that
it happened quite recently in every state of
the Commonwealth, likewise in Maorilapd and
W.G.L.: No “ snap ” ; and the sheep idea is worn 0ut....
Lizard : “ Why shouldn’t Westralia sell the public estate,
and stick the proceeds into revenue?” Well, chiefly be-
cause the money you get from the sale of your estate
isn’t revenue, and the man who lives on that money is
living on his capital, which is the surest way of spending
an old age in the poorhouse. Also, don’t skite about
the Coolgardie water scheme. It’s a very fine scheme ;
the only trouble is that last year the people who used
the water were charged so little for it that the geneial
taxpayer had to part, up £84,571 to pay interest, working
expenses, and the statutory sinking fund Side-on:
Both hopeless; an old bootmaker who put the wormy
bait in his mouth isn’t even good for a par... .F.M. :We
like your persistence. You make your lines rhyme, even
if you have to send one of them along- six furlongs to do
it.... Alle y: No means of identifying the origin of
Alley, Melbourne, and it isn’t of sufficient general interest
for discussion Kelpie: Verse pretty hopeless.....
Poppet: No room for it....W.E.L.: “Willim Coo-ee of
the Tote ” is a muddled and mysterious screed in dim
pencil....H.E.McD. : But, right to begin with, why the
wail that Australia hasn’t got the money to build up-to-
date war vessels? Britain has 60 battleships, 120 cruisers,
and about 320 other vessels. We have one-tenth of
Britain’s population, and about the same wealth per in-
habitant. That ought to run at least to six good battleships,
a dozen cruisers, and some sundries Embryo: Your
questions are unanswerable. It is impossible to say without
seeing your book what it is worth ; and the price of lllus-
trations vary with different illustrators v ... Coma.
break no nevv ground in your articles on (1) “ Fools, (2)
“Liars.” It is practically impossible to throw any fresh
Ijo-ht on those too common and exhaustively analysed
types .Jo: “In Elysium” is mildly diverting—and that
is its trouble.... D.8.1C : No stamp, no name, no address,
no title to yarn, and the yarn’s no good K.W.T.: “C.tee
Sabbath ” will appear in due course. Can’t say when will
be due course. There are heaps of things ahead of it
Lubra : No use for an essay on “ F00d.”...... W.G.W.:
Joke useless. Ignorance is not in itself amusing
Batcher : It is a very poor humor that is wholly based on
the idea of a man being blown to pieces by a gun explo-
sion Stannum : Next time you dress up an old stolen
yarn, try to do it a little better Kit: “ Waiting .is
mournful and commonplace Ed. Hayes : The opening
is very fine, but after that your tale peters out. Here-
with a couple of telling sentences: “‘Yes, sir, truth is
indeed stranger than fiction. I can retail you an anec-
dote at this moment requisitely characteristic,’ I reflec-
tively announced to a newly-acquired acquaintance of
mine, the other day. ‘ You can,’ he interrogated stipu-
latively in return to my submitted intimation opening
this chronicle.”
TO AUTISTIC (AND INABTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
The Squid : Picture very immature, and the lightsome
jest at the foot of it doesn’t help it along much
F.C.B. : The rough sketch you sent Was paid for as an
idea, and was then handed to the artist to let him know
what the idea was... Jack I.: Fleet pictures are “ off.”
W.S.: Approximately 17 miles away from Publication
Point. And it doesn’t look as though you know the
road N.P.L. : Chestnuts.....A.O.T. : Pictures born
dead. The hearse is busy carrying them back to you,
and will arrive shortly if not arrested for infuriated
Jehu-ism A.K.: “ Opening Spar ” not good enough to
be taken seriously, and lacks the picturesque horribleness
(or horribility) which would justify us in publishing it as
a fearsome example Oscar H. :If you could get good
tuition you might become an artist, but we can’t say
positively that you would—H.E.M. (Vic.): (1) You
can’t draw worth a copper ; (2) you are a silly bigot and
Tory and fool; (3) as Jesus Christ was the first exponent
of modern Socialism, you are obviously an atheist; (4)
you seem to be an ignorant ass; (5) can’t say whether you
are a liar or not, but should imagine you are E. A.B. :
Nothing even remotely exciting about it.


MOSTLY MELBOURNE.
We wanfv/ty&cr We we. v/a.nt'it'
"M o fo otw arty, e
Mere.
Train bitfercoM
of Monday
officially over I
|V(o doubt - tf\is Sort"
of- w, *l v
in dTfne
/ footer fi* def^r
("oj’tiinr 1 e deeded Su-iti-blc
{"or S‘«">">« r ) •““
'• 0 Lord ! He»V<i my
// Spoiled first" day
/( I f
1/ hi.v'e ow) %
-\V£l£M To
VaJflJ\l>/e iv 7 A^S
Well do I remetn ter $€ Spring
A\edieirre -for Cbi Id ran , I
f>rof> ortions, , but" if l’nade
ev'Cry 2 or 3 da/s out
S, of 4 J“S
T *ro*f -tried
Fa,ce is &II
foisted a, /of !
6oot£
oCfer to Secure
for VicTon&v <bfX'
."
/\ Quid 6,j»iece ouVnory
I cv>'t-
Boy. Be ) tJmK y ou come.
on in J Ty_ is \ci~ I
Het'o : I WW ! Ive been wj\it7ttb
e»rowgli[" O
“ CooK Quite
"1o PiVe ub o«k f»oyf'i'o*7s of le^dersbif
in order &, |>e rfecfly start - Should
"be by i, united Oj?j>o<,inon


"HOP’S” VIEWS AND CONSIDERATIONS.
Adelaide, Sunday—An evil arising
from golf has been blamed for the de-
creased attendance at Alberton State
.School. Strong comments on the sub-
ject were made on Friday by the head-
master, Hr. A. Hardy, in his annual
report to parents.
“On every school day
of the year on an aver-
age there, have been 10
boys absent at golf.
They had gone to the
golf links, where they
acted as caddies, and
earned 3s. or 4s. a day.
They are degenerating,
both mentally and
morally. They learn to
smoke cigarettes and
learn to swear. It is bad
enough on school days,
but what can one think
concerning golf tin Sun-
days, on which days
dozens of my boys may
be found on the golf
links. No man has the
right to imperil the soul
of a child.”
Overheard on the S.S. nSNOs,
Miltiades : \.
Steward : “ Cuppa Coffy x 'sT'
this mornin’, Sir ’Ector?
Voice from under the bed- >
clothes : “ Have we crossed
the line vet ? ”
Steward: “Just over, sir, five minutes ago.”
Voice : “ Well, then, ‘ Sir Joseph ’ will have a cup of coffee • and
look here, no more ‘Sir hector’ this trip, d’ye hear?” ’ ’
AN EPIDEMIC OF GOLF.
MUTUAL.
L.B.M. (as the departing American Fleet sinks below the horizon): “Oh!
Thank Heaven! They’re off at last!’
Admiral Sperry (as the last vestige of Australia fades from view): “Oh!
Thank Heaven, we are off at last; and, say, if any man in this here
Fleet sings out ‘Land-hoi’ within the next 15 days I’ll be darned if
I don’t fire a salute with our 14-incher, after stuffing that man In on
top of t-hc -charge ! ”
At Federal Parliament House Lord Dudley said : “ When your
Prime Minister paid his first official call he found me in my shirt
sleeves pushing furniture about.” CLaughter.)
If the Governor had “moved furniture” in his cocked hat or
opened packing-cases with his dress-sword there would have been
nothing to laugh at. , ,
A new terror is to be added to the “tinned music” infliction. Are you
listening?
'' Mr. Louis Becke is about to revisit the Islands to fulfil a commission from
the Royal Geographical Societies in London and Berlin to rrport upon the folk
songs and lore of the South Sea Islanders. In addition to exhaustive reports, he
is to take back with him phonographic records of folk-songs, now rapidly
disappearing. 11
Imagine, for example, this served up cold tor Sunday tea with extract of
Melba and Caruso as a relish
ILLUKHWAMBO WHINO.
(South Sea Folk-Song.)
liilloo Kthuleetee,
Warr-r-r-r-eepa Nongwaikee ;
80-o-o-o Khowaieo Nangwap-a-ha.
Tchthalassee hoo-o-o-o-o-oopla ;
Ning-Waytee-o tsing Wap-Wap-Wap,
Ning Waytee-o tsing Way-a-a-a-a
A-a-a-a-a-a, etc., etc.
Whj cap’.t Louis Becke get busy on some more humane proposition ?
Hector Carruthers say* that he ha*
expanded a lot during hi* trip to Eng*
land, but can still get a 6)( hat on by
the aid of a shoe-horn, or words to
that effect.


Odol is the first
and only
preparation for cleansing the mouth and teeth
which is absorbed by the teeth and by the
mucous membrane of the gums, to a certain
extent impregnating them, and so exercising its
antiseptic and refreshing powers not only during
the brief period of application but continuing
for some hours afterwards.
3*
r
/
£
/
7
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Dalgety climate was responsible for
another death last week, when Absalom Cook
passed over, aged allegedly 100, at Bungarty, 12
miles from the Federal city site. He had spent
nearly his whole lifetime in that locality.
Alex. Johnstone, after 40 years on the
Parramatta greens, still bowls, although he is over
90. This record entitles him to be called the grand-
father of the game in N.S.W. When, 40 years ago,
a meeting was called at the old Wool pack Hotel
at Parramatta to start a club, he was the only
one present, but he rounded up the late Nat
Payten and. got the game going. Since then he
has maintained his club membership. He was one
of nine who met the first Victorian team, 28 years
ago, in a four-rink game.
One centenarian at least has got into the
N.S.W. official records. State Statistician Ander-
son (who isn’t that any longer, by the way, having
given up the job to become Director of Pumpkins)
notes in the “ Vital Statistics of the Metropolis”
for August that, of the people who died in Fleet
month “ two were aged 90, one aged 91, one aged
92, one aged 94, one aged 97, one aged 98, and one
aged 109 years.' The lady last mentioned was born
in Ireland, and had resided in Australia for a
period of 101 years.” Presumably it’s all right;
still the State Statistician doesn’t mention how
he found it all out for certain.
An old N.S.W. provincial journalist, Mr.
John Walsh, senr., formerly owner and conductor
of the Goulburn Argus, died in that quiet
cathedral city on the 15th, aged 77 years. Over
40 years ago he went to Goulburn per boot from
Campbelltown, and thereafter he and Goulburn
grew up together. On one occasion he attempted
to enter Parliament for Argyle, and would have
succeeded if he had got enough votes.
Captain Fred Dunn, who has quitted the
N.S.W. Navigation Department after 33 years’
toil, bobbed about on a little pilot launch for
all but a few months of that third of a cen-
tury. In the years before that he ran one
of the first ferries to Mosman, Sydney. As
coxswain of the lifeboat crew he got into many
nasty corners, especially before the new South
Head lifeboat was built—notably when he ran out
on a stormy night to the French barque Vincennes,
which was trying to climb over Manly Beach.
The Oldest Inhabitant :
Of 21 Governors that New South Wales has had
since its foundation, 120 years ago, but six, including
the present occupant of the job, survive. The most aged
fragment of the tribe is Belmore, Irish earl and Irish repre-
sentative peer, who ruled in Sydney from 1868 to 1872.
He married a niece of the great Gladstone, and had three
sons and nine daughters to help the birth-rate. Unfor-
tunately, eight of the daughters remained spinsters,
which was bad for the birth-rate. The ninth daughter
married a policeman—at least an “ inspector of con-
stabulary',” which is a glorified kind of bobby or head
cop.
A scrap of news that flickered in from
Glen Innes (N.S.W.) last week should have caused
the Johns great joy. It was to the effect that
Morrissey, of the Snakes, had been out scouring
the country for reptiles, but hadn’t succeeded in
bagging any. The Force knows from long, creepy
experience that if Morrissey accumulates a bag
of serpents he will sooner or later wander into
Sydney, and be found dreaming on the public
highway. Then an unsuspicious policeman (there
are such things about) will find him and his bag,
and convey them to a place of safety. All will be
well until the Sergeant tips out the contents of
the bag on the floor, when the usual scene of
bloodshed and confusion will take place. This
habit of gathering reptiles and frightening police 1 )
men with them seems to have become a confirmed
thing with Morrissey.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant :
Mrs. Susannah Scholfield, who died at North Sydney on
Friday, in her 68th year, was locally a somewhat historic
personage. She was daughter of Mr. George Lavender,
mate of the Phoenix Hulk, which lay in Hulk Bay, now
named after the same mate, Lavender Bay. Her grand-
father was Billy Blue, to whom Governor Macquarie in
January, 1817, gave a grant of “ eighty acres of land lying
and situated in the district of Hunter’s Hill ” (as North
Sydney then was), “by a line thirteen degrees south,
forty chains, commencing at the mouth of a small run ”
(of water) “in the bottom of a bay” (Lavender, but then
unnamed) “ on the north side of Port Jackson Harbor, on
the east by a line of three chains, fifteen links to the har-
bor and on all other sides to the harbor, reserving the
right of watering to shipping.” He could not alienate
for five years, and in that time was to cultivate 18 acres,
otherwise the land was to revert to the Crown. Little of
the land now remains in the hands of the Blues. In con-
sideration of the grant, Billy Blue was to run a ferry
between Blue’s Point and Dawes Point.
JOHN LIVINGSTONE, M.H.R. (from S.A.).
He's not much of a politician, but will judge
cattle with the best of them.
BLOSSOM.
“ How do you manage to keep so stout. Brown! I drink Guinness's and bottled ale, and all
that, and yet there's no show for it."
“ Quite true, old fellow, there is nose show for it.”
Capt. J. D. Joy, master-mariner, captain
of the Howard Smith liner Cooma, and commo-
dore of the co.’s fleet, has gone aloft. His father
was an old P. and O. skipper, and the junior Joy
sailed first under: the same flag. He was then
with Howard Smith for over 30 years, and in all
that time never met with a bad accident.
“ Oby ” writes :, Vale Head Estate
(N.S.W.), one of the profitable land grants that
Parson Marsden, the Yorkshire blacksmith, suc-
ceeded in getting into his holy and grasping
hands, has had over a dozen more or less noted
names associated with its history. The Smiths
and Suttors of Bathurst, the Coxes and Browns
and Hills worked at Vale Head as employees or
part owners. Joseph Thomas Parslow, who died
the other day at a patriarchal age, settled there
and kept up the record of long living for which
the district is noted. Also one Cobden (a reputed
brother of the great Freetrade crank) spent a
while on the estate and lies buried there. That
Cobden was a beer-seller, and, as far as records
show, lived more happily than brother Richard.
“H. 8.”: Sir Eyre Shaw, fireman and
beauty man, whose death at the age of 72 is cabled
from London, had some quaint things happen
to him in his long life. 'When “ lolanthe was
first produced in 1882, IV. S. Gilbert made the
love-sick. Fairy Queen sing of him, in the second
act : — ,
Oh, Captain Shaw, type of true love kept under,
Could thy brigade with cold cascade
Quench my:great love, I wonder?
Three months later Shaw was cited as one of the
numerous co-respondents in the Colin Campbell
divorce suit. He escaped with his character, but
a depleted bank account. Then something hap-
pened to one of his legs, and it had to be taken
off ; and subsequently the other followed it. For
years he was a feature of “ Church Parade ” in
Fogtown, which function he attended in a bath
chair, and surrounded by society dames.
A scrap of Chief Judicial biography
Chief Justice Darley (N.S.W.) on Friday received the
congratuations of the Bar, through Mr. G. H. Reid, K.C.,
on having completed his 78th year. He was born in 31
Leeson-street, Dublin, in September, 1830 ; son of Henry
Darley, solicitor, one of the six Clerks in Chancery, and
grandson of Alderman Darley, who was High Sheriff of
Dublin in the “ year of trouble,” 1798, Lord Mayor of the
City in 1808-9, and Chief Police Magistrate till the early
’forties, when the Corporation was “ reformed ” and aider-
men as police magistrates were abolished. His maternal
grandfather was Arthur Guinness, of XXX fame. Mr.
Darley was called to the Bar in 1853, and, coming to Aus-
tralia in 1862, was immediately in good practice through
the good offices of Alfred Stephen, Chief Justice, who in-
troduced him to the leading solicitors. In ’6B James
Martin gave Darley a seat in the Legislative Council, and
in 1886 he succeeded the same James Martin as Chief
Justice. The C.-J. can now retire at any moment on a
pension of £2450, the other Judges’ pensions being £lB2O.
Ex-Surveyor-general Richmond, of Papua,
the man whose rebellion against the old-established
“Johnnie” oligarchy led to the remodelling of
the whole Administration, has finally quitted the
service. After Richmond had put a few blistering
things on paper, he was superseded as Surveyor-
General, but remained on the staff till now, when
he leaves it to go in for planting in the island.
He has hopes, too, of doing something to develop
a trade in Papuan timbers, of which, so far, practi-
cally no use has been made outside the island.
“ Melb.” : Nat Levi, of Victoria, just
passed away, was a man of large ideas. How
often we meet with the Ben Boyd, of Boyd Town,
in various forms. One was Murray Ross, in-
spired nearly 40 years ago by Nat Levi to go in
for beet sugar at Rosstown, seven miles from
Melbourne. Ross put up an enormous four-
storey brick factory, of which the ruins are now
visible for many miles around. He got his
machinery, planted a monster acreage of beet,
and had a special railway made for three miles to
Elsternwick. The whole concern flopped dire-
fully. Graham Berry used to live in Ross’s for-
lorn mansion at South Yarra, even as Bent lived
in Squatter McMillan’s magnificent palace at
Brighton.
The condensed tale of Hector Carruthers
visit to England :
I met Sir George Doughty.
I met Mr. Austin Chamberlain.
I met Mr. John Burns and Mr. Ramsay Macdonald.
Mr. Henniker Heaton was extremely good to me.
Earl Carrington and Lord Beauchamp were also very
kind to me.
I met the Earl of Crewe, Lord Dudley, Lord Jersej', etc.
I met the Earl of Kintore.
Lady Carrington, who had come down especially
from High Wickham, had a long chat with me.
Lady Hampden called on me, but unfortunately I
missed her.
I met several times General Hutton.
Mr. Asquith invited me on one or two occasions to
functions at his office.
Both he and Lord Welby pressed me to address the
company.
I met Sir Francis Hopwood, Sir Charles Lucas, etc.
In addition to this I met many other members of the
Ministry. , , . , ,
The Governor of the Bank of England invited me to
dine with the directors.
I also dined with the directors of the London and
Westminster Bank.
“10-2-4” : Announced that B. R. Wise
arrives in Sydney, and resumes practice at the Bar,
at the end of the month. There should be plenty
of the client’s good red gold waiting for
him. Salomons has retired for good. Pilcher
is so prosperous that he doesn’t need to work for
the rest of his life—and he was never a wildly
strenuous toiler at any time. G. H. Reid is an
advocate pure and simple. He is a useful hand at
spell-binding a jury, but there his qualificatmns
halt abruptly. In argument before a discerning
Judge or Bench of Judges he is a painful spectacle.
The°Chief Justiceship, which it is understood that
Harley will positively relinquish in November, is
likely to go either to Alexander Gordon or to
Adrian Knox—in all probability to the latter (pro-
vided Gregory 'Wade doesn’t take it) —thus remov-
ing another K.C. from the field. All round,
things financial look bright for Wise, who, but for
his political hankerings, could in the past have
made piles of money.
THE LORD MAYOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord-Mayor Weedon, of Melbourne, is about to retire
after three years of office.—Consternation-spreading
announcement.
We’ve seen him stalking- up and down,
The envy of his peers ;
He’s been the doll of Melbourne town
For three full-feasting- years.
His hairy robe and smiling face
Have made the whole world stare ;
But now he’s sliding from his place—
We’re losing our Lord Mayor.
Although the steaming turtle soup
Shall still its fragrance spread,
A Flower Neglected, he will droop
Far from the table’s head.
And though in bubbling amber springs
The champagne yet will pour,
While aspic chickens fold their wings,
He’ll rule the roost no more.
A perky, tufted little wight,
Decked out by tailors’ art,
He played with infantine delight
His tinsel-gleaming part.
Fussing round Governors and things
Amid the banquet bowls,
He stirred with pride the trembling strings
Of aldermanic souls.
With agitated H’s, ’ome
He went to Hinglish soil,
Leaving a track across the foam
Of smooth Lord-Mayoral oil ; ,
And back he came with glories new
To grace the local scene ;
Sir. ’Arry now was placed on view
Where 'Arry once had been.
But oh, the Day of Death we see
When pomp and pride must fall,
And soon our ’Arry’s strut will be
Of no account at all ;
For with our Harthur Snowden he’ll
To some back seat repair,
And weep in secrecy to feel
He is no more Lord Mayor.
Another ’and shall wield the pen
On scrolls of welcoming,
Another voice cry, “ Gentlemen 1
’ls Majesty ther King ! ”
Another furry form shall sit,
A Gov’nor on each side ;
A newer doll is dressed ; and it
Has stolen Weedon’s pride.
The penalty of dizzy heights
To which mere mortals climb,
Comes when they lose the dear delights
Of places so sublime.
The bubble soars ; the rainbow’s not
More gay in gold and green.
Comes Nemesis ; and lo ! a spot
Of soap is all that’s seen.
In six months’ time, go search the town,
Go dredge the channels deep,
Go grope the city up and down —
Oh, where does ’Arry sleep ?
No shred of all his glory stays,
And neither here nor there
Will Sherlock Holmes discern a trace
Of Him as was Lord Mayor.
VIC.
L.


3r*- J
¥ h-
-3*'
f
\
vV*'
it*
Zj* ' , :
&
I® #;
/
\
■■
8 » ;
m
■i
fS ,;'
le
:
Jssi
X
SB
m
1
tifc
■
X?
it
xj
if
i
r:
*wkm
■mm
imsm
tji
:
9H
;Ct
>-3
11®
11
mi
■’.j
c.. j
Jig
a
®S
•*
si
II
P
J®
til
ifM
V
>
Sffi
II
’ ’ X
*.3&j
;
■ *i
.
M
> ur^*
i . 1111
i-PS
* • * ■vi
«
“My Word!
My Cigarette—CAPSTAN!
CAPSTAN ” (Tobacco (SL Cigarettes)—the brand that made W. D. &. H. O. Wills popular.


“ What’s your verdict?” in a fury
Asked the counsel of the jury.
Though 'twas somewhat premature he
Could no more endure !
“ What’s our verdict ! ” said the foreman,
“ We’ve all colds through that door, man !
Give us what we asked before, man,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden. Sevre, Derby China.
Bouis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
THE PERIL OF OUR TIME
Is lung disease. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
coughs and colds cures lung- trouble. Small dose.
Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed. Obtainable
This Elastic Truss—
p|P| : Wm
Elastic
T russ—
Siugle, 17/fi
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
•281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Sydney Clerks’ Union recently put in
a good word for Deakin’s compulsory military
training scheme. The bulk of the clerks, it was
said, wanted to go in for military training, but to
join a voluntary corps would, in almost every case,
mean the sack. The boss won’t employ a patriotic
quill-pusher who has to get away from the ledger
and the inkpot and the overtime on certain fixed
days per annum for training purposes, when he
can find an unpatriotic one who doesn’t suffer
from that drawback, and the only remedy is to
make sure that all clerks will have the same draw-
back. Then the boss must put up with it. At
present the clerks are suffering from compul-
sory want of military training, and they desire to
recover their freedom.
FOOD (ALSO DRINK) FOR THOUGHT.
Roughly speaking, the great American Fleet which lias
just left us represented the Australian drink bill for a
year.— John Vale, Chairman of the. Victorian Alliance.
Our Pewter Fleet and What it swims in.
Says S. M. Herald, on Premier Price’s
memorandum to the British Government re the
needlessness of imported Governors :
There are two alternatives to the present arrangement.
The best is that which suggests that the Chief Justice
should be ex-officio Governor. This would to a large
extent maintain the dignity of the office. There is, how-
ever, the almost insuperable objection that no man could
really discharge the two sets of duties. Either the Chief
Justice would become merely a nominal head of the
Bench of Judges, or the Governor would become merely a
titular official, called into being for a few ceremonial
occasions.
It is wonderful reasoning when you consider the
circumstances of the case. N.S.W. has had 21
real Governors, and on 11 occasions it has had a
Chief Justice as acting-Governor. Once he acted
for eight months, and twice for six months. S.
Australia has had 18 Governors, and 19 times it has .
been ruled by a Judge of the Supreme Court, who
has run the show for as much as a year at a time.
Victoria has had 13 Governors and 13 spells of
administration by the Chief Justice, who was once
left in charge for nearly two years at a time. And
it would take the Herald a whole lot of research
to find out that anything went wrong in these
periods when the C.-J. waved the rubber-stamp
of office in his spare moments and attended to his
steady job the rest of the day.
All through the days preceding the debate
on Labor-member Elmslie’s motion of censure in
the "V ictorian Assembly, Bent’s Ministers pro-
fessed “not to regard the matter seriously.” They
felt sure of the numbers, sure of their servile fol-
lowers, and nothing else mattered. It was signi-
ficant of the low level that State politics have
reached that men like Mackinnon ignored the
ethics of the question entirely—the disgraceful
favoritism shown, and the deliberate, impudent
flouting of Parliament’s instructions as to giving
preference to Australian products. It was Bentism
in excelsis, naked and unashamed.
Things keep moving for the discomfiture of
the Foreign-trader and the importing person.
Under the new tariff scarcely a day passes with-
out some fresh industry being heard of. The
latest is a new piano factory in Melbourne, which
is to cover four acres of ground, employ 300 Aus-
tralian workmen, and turn out, to begin with,
2000 pianos per year. And it is less than 12
months since the importing cuss was sending out
his lie headed “ A Land that Hath no Music,”
and explaining that pianos couldn’t be made here
(though Beale, of Sydney, was doing it all the
time), and that the dreadful Bill Lyne wouldn’t
allow them to be imported.
The only political good quality Victoria’s
Thomas Bent ever had seems to be departing
from him these days. Thomas was and is a
roarer, an uncouth and bearish person, a retailer
of incredible reminiscences, a bad singer of very
poor songs, a maker of hideously bad jokes, a
knight, a Tory, a political wobbler, a hopeless
obstruction to settlement, a friend to the big land
monopolist, a parochialist of a very bad type, and
many other things ; but because he didn’t borrow
money Bent was tolerable. Now a fresh roar has
taken possession of him, and he talks of big loans
and big public works booms, and if he takes to
that sort of thing there is no good left in T. Bent.
In July of this year it was a half-century
since the first title under the now almost universal
Torrens Act was signed in S. Australia ; and last
month saw the 50th anniversary of the organisa-
tion of the Lands Titles office. The first
“ Torrens” titles ever issued were in the name of
W. R. Mortlock, who years later was M.L.A. for
Flinders. They were signed in July by the
Governor and the Treasurer. The office wasn’t
then organised, and it was a month later
before R. R. Torrens himself, having been ap-
pointed Registrar-General, signed a deed ; and by
a coincidence W. R. Mortlock was the bolder of
that one too.
Still another of Wade’s “ model ” Acts,
the N.S.W. Local Government measure, has
struck a snag. The Newcastle-Wallsend Co.
appealed against an assessment on several grounds,
one being that its property comes under the 135th
section, which says that all assessments must be
made within 12 months after the passage of the Act.
Nominally the Act was passed on January 1, 1907,
but it was not until January, 1908, that the
complex machinery was ready ; and so the valua-
tion of the mining area was not made until
January 28, 1908. The council showed that this
was the very earliest that the assessment could
have been made, it being a physical impossibility
to have made it in 1907. Still, the model law says
it had to be made, impossible or not, in 1907 ; so
Acting Judge Edmunds duly upheld the appeal
and wiped out all the rates. Such a large sum is
involved, and so many councils are interested, that
Wade will have to pass an amending Act.
The South Australian Government appears
to be in no particular hurry to fill the billet of
Agent-General, vacated by
Jenkins Iscariot. There are said
to be a dozen or more men hanker-
ing after the appointment, and
the best chance is supposed to be
that of J. V. O’Loghlin, who
came off with second honors in the
S. Australian Senate election
muddle. The Price Ministry has
been so successful during its
three years of office that neither
the public nor Parliament
evinces any desire for a change,
and no member of the Government
is anxious to give up his job and go to
London. So, for the time being, S.A. is getting
along without any Iscariot.
The rolls used in the Westralian Assembly
election the other day were an amazingly mixed
lot. In Perth 2318 people were good for one
member ; next door, in North Perth, it took 7728
to return a man. North Perth (one member) had,
in fact, more electors on its roll than Roebourne,
Pilbarra, Sussex, Gascoyne, Kimberley and the
Murray (six members) put together. Mulga still
seems to count for nearly as much as men in the
West. And the result of this fake is that Toryism
keeps a good grip of the State Legislature, while
in the Federal Senate election, where the whole
State is one electorate, and the vote of one man or
woman is as good as that of another, Labor comes
out on top.
The Northern Territory has dropped a
little further into the gaping mouth
of the Asiatic labor pest. The
local railway officials have, it is
said,’ “ transferred to the shoulders
of the local shipping agents” the
-responsibility for dealing with
inward cargo. The shipping
agents, therefore, “in the interests
of consignees” (because all the
world knows that shipping agents
and all their kind are the most
unselfish people alive), called for
tenders for handling the cargo, and
the successful tenderer is “a respon-
sible Chinaman.” Under the old
system, the work of handling and
sorting cargo used to be divided
among the available white laborers.
It would be interesting to learn
what the Customs officers think
about the employment of Chinese
in dealing with inward cargo in a
place like Port Darwin, which
does so much business with China.
and has such a large opium and Chow-smuggling
trade.
The S. Aus. House of Landlords has twice
rejected a Bill to permit the Ministry to add two
more members to a Cabinet which now consists of
but four persons. This year it is expected that
the measure will be passed, in which case black-
smith Bice (Liberal) will be the new Minister in
the Council, and saddler Coneybeer (Labor) will
get the portfolio in the Assembly. The Price
Government has a S. Australian record for
length of life without change of personnel,
though Kingston’s 61 years of unbroken Premier-
ship hasn’t yet been approached.
WARE TORPEDO!
The Anti-Australian destroyer Unpatriotic lies
in wait for the new Australian warship Defence.
As Premier Price (S. Aus.) has definitely
declined to be made Agent-General, the job will
go most likely to either Treasurer Peake or Oppo-
sition-leader Butler. The billet is for three years,
with right of renewal for a similar term, and the
salary is £l2OO every dozen months.
Some weeks ago, when butter had tem-
porarily “riz”in Australia, Sydney Telegraph
in its most scornful linotype, preached wildly on
the advantages of life in Freetrade Britain, where
the workers regale themselves on the best that
the world can offer, at bedrock prices. Rye-bread
and horse-meat were, it was stated, quite unknown
in the land of Cobden, where the lucky worker
was represented as spreading his white bread
thickly with Australian butter at about half the price
Australia paid for the* same kind of cow-grease.
Last week, under the heading of “Why They Are
Leaving Home,” the same paper told of 700 immi-
grants arriving in Maoriland by one steamer, and
how one and all had the same doleful tale to tell
of the impossibility of obtaining work in Britain,
of “ intense suffering by all classes of workers, and
terrible business stagnation.” Which all illus-
trates the fallacy of Freetrade and the gospel of
cheapness. Even if Freetradedid make living cheap,
what does it avail the toiler if he can live for ss.
per week so long as he cannot get employment
wherewith to earn the ss. ? He is better in a coun-
try where it costs him £5 per week to live, if he
can earn £lO to do it with. So the Briton comes
in batches of 700 from the land where the “ brac-
ing breezes of free competition ’’ blow unchecked,
and hurries to a country like Maoriland, where
there is something like high Protection and a
liberal amount of Socialism—both of which,
according to the Telegraph, are calculated to
ruin a country and make people flee from it as if
it were a pestilence.
IN BATTLE ARRAY .
Australia flings away on the mere cost of maintaining
State Governors and Parliaments a sum of money suffi-
cient to defray a liberal defence policy.— AGE.
The enemy in sight: a try for our money's worth
in the hour of need.
“Sudden” Solomon, who aims at being
the jester of the 5..-\. Assembly (he has made no
speech, but has shot off about 1000 interjections this
session), has solemnly requested Premier Price to
put a new clause in the Bill for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals. Solomon wants the shield of
the law to be thrust in front of football umpires.
“ For croupy coughs,” says Mr. J. Abbott,
Dandenong, Victoria, “there is nothing quite so
good as Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It is the
— ~.i:
No one knows
what the capital
of the Sydney Har-
bor Trust is, and
there has been Old
Nick to remuner-
ate over it. When
the Trust took over
its job it was
handed a lot of
first-class, second-
class, third-class,
and forty-fourth
class public works,
mostly built out of
loan moneys.
Many of these
works the Trust
had to renew. The
buildings and
wharves had gone
down the maw of
the cobra and the
white ant; but the
loans were still un-
paid. The Trust
was handed over
the lot, debited
with the cost, and
under its Act has
to announce its
deficit or surplus
after paying the
interest on these
loans. The Trust
kicked up a row
about paying, say,
34 per cent, on a
wharf which cost
£5OOO, when in a
year or two it had
to erect another
wharf on the same
spot, so a valua-
tion was made of
the works taken
over. This was in
1904. Soon after
the valuation was completed somebody in one of
the Departments lost the whole blessed (or
dashed) lot of the papers. Whether it was a
junior who made kite-tails of them, or some big
man who left them lying in some Flossie’s private
bar, no one knows —or, anyhow, no one tells. They
just vanished as any other old paper often does.
Until they are found, or until the big job is done
over again, no one can say what the capital of the
Trust is, in consequence of which the whole crowd
feels quite ashamed of itself every time it draws
its salary.
Vic. Premier Bent, possibly as a reward
for support in tfme of trouble, is steadily whittling
down his proposed land legislation. The land-tax,
which was suggested by the Tremendous One so
closely after his ingenious idea of an Anglo-Yank
Pacific fleet as to arouse doubts of his temperature,
looks like being shelved indefinitely. The mem-
bers of the Country Party don’t like it. They also
don’t like his Land Valuation Bill, even though it
is now so weak that it can’t take nourishment. In
compliance with their demands (they can appa-
rently demand anything of Bent, short of work),
the aged Premier has knocked everything out of
it that mattered. Even the principal idea of
forcing the country shires to rate their lands
according to their propor value has been with-
drawn. Bent seems to be a victim of the dreadful
Country Party. For the sake of its support he
does nothing, and does it darned often.
THE BLOOD THAT WASN’T SPILT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Sept. 15.—The secretary of the Protestant
Alliance declares that if the Eucharistic Procession had
taken place there would have been bloodshed.— Cable.
There would have been gore on the railings,
There would have been red in the mud,
A riotous crashing of palings,
But the function was nipped in the bud ;
There would have been bishops to shoulder,
And vicars to hit on the “ jore,”
But it wasn’t allowed,
So there wasn’t a crowd,
And there wasn’t a sprinkle of gore
(No gore !),
Not a spot nor a sprinkle of gore !
There would have been doctors and nurses,
And there might have been coffins and grie*
With a dismal procession of hearses—
But these wasn’t ! Oh ! what a relief 1
There wasn’t an arch-priest to kick at,
Or a dignified prelate to biff ;
No, there wasn’t a mite
Of a good, old fre e-fight,
There was only that terrible “ If! ”
(If! If!)
And there isn’t much fighting in “If! ”
Oh ! talk is a thing you can squander
When your bloodshed is well out of reach,
For the Law lets the human ass wander
Where he likes in the realm of Free Screech ;
There might have been gore on the pavement,
And there might have been red in the mud—
But there wasn’t a spot
Or a speck or a clot!
A remarkable absence of Blood !
(Red Blood !)
Not a speck or a sprinkle of Blood !
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
COLORED AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The leaders of the Orange Institution in New South
Wales, supported by representative Orangemen in Vic-
toria, are perfecting plans for the creation of an Inde-
pendent Orange party in the Federal Parliament.
Australia, we grieve for you.
If all these parties play the game
They’ll sickly o’er your native hue
With tints of green, black, orange, blue—
Chameleon will be your name !
Those who have sought to keep you clean
From taint of nigger and of Chow
Advise you, be they orange, green,
Or blue, or red —with axes keen
Prepare to cut the painters now !
vie.
S.S.
SUFFERED AGONY THROUGH
SCIATICA.
Laid up for Weeks at a Time.
An Absolute Cripple.
Spent Pounds on Doctors and Medicines.
Began to Despair of a Cure. Took Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. They Cured Him.
“ I don’t dread the winters now like I used to.’’
These were the words of Mr. Alexander McNab,
66 Bathurst Street, Sydney, when telling how
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured him of sciatica.
He was only a young man of 26 when he took bad
with it, and it tortured him for years. Doctors’
treatment did him no good, and other remedies
were just as useless. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
were the only thing that was able to rid him of
every ache and pain. Here is his case :
“ I began to suffer with sciatica, and for years I
was a martyr to the most fearful agony. Often
I was laid up for weeks at a time, and my
sufferings were almost beyond description. The
night time was the worst. All night I lay in
pain, the sharp, shooting aching running right
down my leg. It was only on the one side.
Very often the pain doubled me up. Sometimes
when walking the shooting pains caught me and
then I had to hang on to a fence to stop from
falling. Several times I was in bed for three
weeks at a time and I have spent pounds and
pounds on doctors and medicines. Some of them
gave me a little relief, but that’s all. I got very
thin and run down, and grew very weak. When
the pains came on it was like lightning
through me. When I had taken so maify things
without success I began to give up hope of ever
getting better, but reading one day that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills cured sciatica, I made up my
mind to try them as a last resource. After the first
week or two I began to notice an improvement,
and as I kept on so I kept getting better. I kept
on till I was thoroughly cured. Por nearly a
vear now I have not felt the slightest twinge of
sciatica. I don’t dread the winters now like I
used to.”
Dr. Williams’Pink Pills are sold by all medicine
dealers, or if you cannot get them locally, send
direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of
Australasia. Ltd., Sydney. 2s. fid. for one box ;
six boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.


Business Suits
for Country e-Tbwrv Wear.
n
Best Value
in
Australia
#
t
<4L /<•
ms
%
Write Patterns
and
Set/ Measurement
Forms.
Cut Styles Finish, of High Standard.
BUCKLEYfcNUNN L™
Bourke Sr Melbourne.
• .mi
/V?
V?/k
71
v
MU
,
mm
m
ft /
ih
r
mm
KRUSE’S
FLUID MAGNUS] \
41 K*llota*i
& s
mm
more
¥
FLUID
k-UMGE&fwr
Adnuo: ivi
s 'T I | <
V-U-dSL, Dieeg i*yi-i€tfei w t
A. ®> F,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd.
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS' SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd*
Pronounced PERFECT
By discriminating dressers throughout the Commonwealth.
F. I. Palmer & Son s
, l>?
111*
111111 l
m
&
s
9#jjLy -y .
y\WW»y
ir
vrvrrj
Vjp**** il:
i'
$?:
' i
63|-
Suits to
Order.
Perfect Fabrics. Perfect Fit.
Perfect Fashion. Perfect Finish*
Perfect Satisfaction.
MADE THROUGHOUT
on our own Premises.
Call in and see our magnificent
assortment of NEW SPRING
MATERIALS, or write for a
Neat Box of Patterns, mailed
FREE, with Tape and Simple
Self-Measure Form, on receipt of
this Coupon filled in with your
name and address.
“ B ” 24/9/’OB.
Please post Free Box of Patterns to
Name
Address
This application in no way binds
me to make a purchase.
The New ZEBRA Stripes
from 3 Guineas the Suit
We have 25 different Zebra Designs for you
to select from. Shall we send you samples ?
F. J. PALMER <&. SON,
The Tailors You've Heard Oj,
Comer o/ (&. Park Streets, €JYf)VirY
And at The Haymarßet, ■*" *


A
o
Peter F. Heering’s
EST. 1818.
2-
If you are one of those particular women who seek
the best preparations for toilet use, j'ou will be interested
in the list of the Valazp preparations, and appreciate the
many suggestions for beauty culture to be found in Mile.
Rubinstein’s booklet, “ Beauty in the Making.” Valaze,
the chief beauty-maker, is a skin food par excellence.
It revitalises the tired and wasted tissues, removes all
impurities, and makes the skin soft and clear. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. 6d., Od. post. Valaze Blackhead and Open Bore Cure
easily and quickly banishes these complaints, and prevents
their recurrence by destroying their cause. 2s. lOd.
posted. Valaze Skin Tonic, specialty for greasy skins,
removes bagginess under the eyes. 3s. 6d., 6d. postage.
All chemists, or direct from Mile. Rubinstein and Co.,
Valaze Massage Institute, 168 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 9 Brandon Street, Wellington,
N.Z.* I 2
In Victoria, according to the latest returns,
there are 37,313,392 acres of nominally occupied
land. Of this area only 4,126,823 acres are under
cultivation. No less than 10,955,957 acres arc
held in estates of 2500 acres and over, and the
emptiness and desolation and neglect on this big-
landlord-owned area can be guessed when it is
mentioned that only 314,920 acres of it are under
cultivation —between two and three per cent.
Adolphus Bent talks about a land-tax, but it seems
fairly certain that it isn’t coming.
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
Being in the trade I’m
naturally interest d in the way
people make the.r tea —I know
how it ought to be made, and
I also know how it is ofttimes
spoilt in the making —the
water may not be boiling —it
may be overdrawn, or any
one of a dozen things may
happen which with very
little care might be avoided —
there is, however, one point
which needs special attention,
and that is to see there
are no old leaves left in
the pot—shaking them out
isn’t sufficient, you must rinse
your teapot with boiling water,
for, nothing so effectually spoils
a pot of tea as a few stray
stale previously used leaves.
Aud don’t put fresh tea in on top
of leaves that have had the
goodness drawn out of them—-
if somebody comes late, and an
extra cup is needed, better
throw the old leaves out, and
make a pot of entirely fresh tea.
Our No. 1 Grade is great
tea—it has a delicious soft
flavor, and is wonderfully
economical.
“ Tine Connoisseur’s Friend.”
“RLACR and WHITE.”
i
BUCHANAN WHISKY
of perfection, and the high-class standard
Is the acme
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 22, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
D.ear departed Lady Northcote is to be pursued
with some more presentation. Fifty pounds of
good Easterling money was left over from the
presentation fund after the loving cup and blotter
had been paid for. This money is to be spent
upon a pair of silver candlesticks and an inkstand
to match the blotter. When her ex-Ex. sees her
writing-table Australian-furnished with these
elegant and exclusive goods—as Buckley and
Nunn’s catalogue says of some of its choice im-
ports—it will be a reminder to sit down and write
to some of the friends she’s left behind her. A
personal acquaintance with the Lady was a
luxury. I couldn’t have afforded it myself, but
she’s one of the luxuries that Mrs. Wade and
Mrs.- Ashton will keep. To these ladies she gave
diamond and sapphire rings. Numbers of persons
got souvenirs; greater numbers didn’t get any-
thing—they just exchanged smiles with Her.
And when they read or were told of the souvenirs,
they) got brain storms.
The briefest, thorougliest “subscribers’ meet-
ing ” I ever attended was that held in the
Mayoress’ rooms at the Town Hall last week to
talk over the Woolley Memorial Fund. Mayoress
Hughes reared her decorative person and made
some satisfactory remarks. Mr. Deas-Thompson,
lion. treasurer ’ for the fund, announced that
it had reached the sum of £450. Mr. Miles
gave an account of how musical scholar-
are acquired and carried out. Then Mr.
Southwell, who had yarded a lot of scattered
information from Bullopolis and elsewhere,
addressed the meeting. Beforff the women sitting
in tile rows behind the Distinguished Personsin the
front seats had quite made up their minds whether
to approve or otherwise of Chieftainess Darley’s
cape and toque, the meeting was full-stopped,
and tea was wandering round. “Southey’s”
geii&ralship at a gathering where ladies and elderly
gentlemen predominate (and show a tendency to
“ sjfrawl ” in the matter of talk) is Hannibalian
and Napoleonic. He rushes things. Before the
slovy, contemplative person who intended to be
long-winded and eloquential has heaved on to his
or her feet, the proceedings are over.
The proposed Woolley Scholarship is to be made
tenable alternately at the Royal Academy of
Music, London, and the Royal College of Music,
the-(first holder to be located at the Royal
Academy. And a concert in aid of the fund is to
be given at the Town Hall on October 7. Mr.
Andrew Black and Mrs. Slapoffski will warble.
The mostiornamental stranger present was Miss
Katierine Gopdson, that pianiste of the very front
ranjf butjof whom the majority of Australians
heajfd for the first time when the Taits announced
her)Concert tour. Her collection of press notices
froth London, Vienna, Boston, New York, and
Berlin are torrid eruptions of admiration. No
critic attempts a criticism. He writes a mono-
graph with rosy wine for ink and an enthusiastic
nib. Ysaye/ Arthur Nikisch, her Master
(Leschetizky), and other great authorities, have
written to tell her what they think of her playing,
and their thoughts are long, long thoughts, and
their value for publication is above ruhies.
Miss Goodson is Mrs. Hinton, but she wears no
worried married look with her dull greens and
bright brown chiffon velvets. For one thing, she
doesn’t look more than 20, but must be a year
or two more, or she wouldn’t have had time to set
all those volcanoes of fiery praise sizzling. Then
she hasn’t been long married. And she hasn’t
got the “piano back.” Neither does she do her,
hair, in breakfast rolls ; she just scrambles it
artistically. At the Woolley meeting she had en-
closed her long, slender person in a long, brown
chiffon velvet gathered into an Empire belt ; a
big brown hat, with a dull green ostrich feather,
shaded an olive, piquant little face with eyes
like passion flowers, and a sensitive mouth.
(N.B. —I’ve been reading a Pansy novel-
ette, and the foregoing bit is just how
the young Duchess de St. Mullock looked
when the Hon. Paul Gordon was only one page
off and rushing towards her with all his might.)
The stranger ought to look very attractive at the
keyboard. Of course, the Truly Musical don’t
care how the performer looks. Mark Harnbourg
or a lady gorilla pianist—it’s all one to them so
long as he or she interprets the Masters sublimely ;
but then so few of us are truly musical, although
we put up a brave pretence that we’d rather hear a
Bach Chromatic Fantasy than have 20 shares in
the Gas Co.
Miss Goodson owes America 70 concerts, and
she goes there to pay what she owes after she has
given Australia its due of her melody. She is
reckoned to be an exquisitely subtle player. She
is certainly a subtle replier. For instance, she
was recently asked, amongst other famous people,
by the editor of the London societypaper, M. A.P.,
which were the qualities she most admired in
Man. Her reply reads as follows :—“ The quali-
ties I most admire in Man are those which best
enable him to appreciate the qualities which I
most admire in Women.”
A fine-looking young American damsel, Miss
‘ Parrish: travels with the pianist and gives her
moral support. The twain met in Vienna when
/both were pupils of the man with the name like a
dinner gong.
The tumult and the shouting for AdaJCrossley’s
arrival are in rehearsal. Alarums and excursions
rage amongst the secretaries of the various musical
bodies, and all are trying to be first over the fence
; in the work of welcome. Ada, sole star contralto,
daughter of our’omeand ’eart, is reported by inter-
viewers as unaltered in appearance. Certain
citric persons had stated she had plumped out.
She hasn’t plumped the size of a chocolate cream,
and her voice, according to the cloud of paper
; witnesses from foreign parts, has even more gold
and bird-song in it than of yore. As for her
gowns, Paris and Vienna lay awake many nights
planning designs. After the concert given on the
Orontes in aid of a poor passenger—it realised £7O
—Crossley was presented with a bouquet of roses
from all the girls’ hats. Wasn’t that ’cute !
Our golden-haired prodigal, Percy Grainger,
has come home, but we don’t need to kill any-
thing in his honor. He has brought his own veal
with him. (A long record of “ brilliant successes”
is in this case the equivalent of veal.) He is
thinner, quite grown-up. and still tenaciously
Australian. His collection of folk songs has
grown to four hundred in number, and he means
to publish them and his own compositions in Aus-
tralia when he has more songs, more years and
more money.
Sametini, the violinist of the Crossley co., has
had a cocktail named after him. It is well asked-
for on two continents, and helps greatly to adver-
tise his fiddling. The art and mystery of its com-
position have been hurriedly acquired at the
Wentworth Hotel, where Sametini, Grainger and
tenor Harrison are staying. Sametini is a young
heavyweight (the Bishop of Goulburn, who came
out with the co., called him Fatini), with hair like
the best black curled Astrachan. To see him and
Percy going out to look up a barber for a hair-cut
was worth more than the barber’s fee. And I
never shook hands with such beautiful ties, socks
and shirts in my life before ! The violinist’s make-
up was a symphonic poem in blue and white, the
pianist’s a chromatic excerpt in misty greens and
prunes (not prawns).
Sametini is Dutch and humorous. He confesses
to acute Harboritis. His address, he says,!
when he’s not playing, will be “Foreshores of the
Harbor.” So the girls will know where to look
for him. When they see his hair showing up
above a rock they will know it is he. He always
has his hair along with him.
If you want to see the “Spring Song’’done
into Girl, go to the Criterion and consider Miss
Grace Sinclaire as the Belle, in “The Belle of
Mayfair.” You don’t often gaze upon such dewy
freshness in a leading stage part, or in any part,
on any stage. Even the child actress, or in-
fant phenomenon, nine times and three-quarters;
out of ten, looks a hard case. The worst of such
dawn-of-day beauty, with its round contours,
brightness of eye, lightness of movement and
freshness of voice, is to make every other feminine
in the neighborhood of the iw/enue look something
B.C. Miss Sinclaire may have more years
than 15 concealed about her flower-like per-
sonality ; but, if so, the other years are
very far out of sight. Her flirting with;
the Hon. Someone —her business is to flirt
with the fascinating Someone and to bamboozle
her old father—is done with the apparent inno-
cence of a kitten playing with a tangle of worsted,
but all the time it is experienced stage work.
Miss Sinclaire’s frocks are schoolgirly—white and
simple. One of her hats is a biggish adornment
in white net with a pink rose at the side. Her
own flaxen fleece falls in natural curls over her
collarless neck.
The new piece is as bright as they don’t often
make them. The scene opens at a charity bazaar
in a private park—a setting that leaves plenty of
scope for the use of every shade of color that is
employed in women’s frocks and on rocking-
horses and dolls. Amongst the mimes who haunt
the bazaar is the aspiring bounder who, having
made money by a poultry-farm, or out of groceries,
or beer, or back-hair or some such, wishes to “soar”
with his wife into the realms where-the straw-
berry leaves flourish. Strawberry leafdom gives
the bounder and bounderess awful jolts back-
wards, as is always the case when the berry leaves
grow on the stage. The real, everyday berry
leaf would welcome the amusing bounders—for
they are amusing—with roars of laughter.
Naturally Mayfair is very well frocked. Miss
Ruth Lincoln, as the Princess of Honorbright-
stone, or its German equivalent, takes the prize
in an outer covering of dull pink crepe, with satin
embroidery. Another of her achievements is
a Court gown of white satin, with birds holding
floral wreaths. Miss Orford’s frock (or one of her
frocks) is of pale blue liberty satin, with gold
tassel adornments and cream lace. And there’s a
beautiful Gibson girl in the tight-fitting black
velvet with which we’ve got friendly through
portraits of the staggering Camille Clifford.
As a source of misery for the dramatis personae
the stage is great. On Friday morning I strayed
into the full-dress rehearsal for “The Belle of
Mayfair.” At the close of the first act (or some
act), when all the mimes were on the stage, one of
the gods in the machine went aloft to the
circle either to arrange for a flashlight picture
or to fix the grouping (I didn’t wait for
the whichness). A pretty little damsel at the end
of the front line was ordered to the unseen rear by
the god in the circle, and another—a long, lanky
one, frightfully well-dressed but with the face of
an unintelligent sheep—was brought forward in
her place. Doubtless, if the girl who was ordered
into obscurity had tried to argue the matter out
with the god in the machine, saying “Isn’t my
face better worth looking at than that other gal’s
clothes ?” he would have told her to “Go and git
work.” But wasn’t it gallsome !
Mime Appleby, of the Meynell and Gunn co.,
is a brother of-that very artistic Sydney photo-
grapher of the same name. It is either mime
Appleby or rhime Bottomley, of the co., who tells
this yarn: He came to this world in the same
vessel as the Admiralty Poores. On one of the
early days of the voyage he and Lady Poore found
themselves dipping into the same inkpot in the
writing room. “Going to Australia?” asked
the mime, friendlywise and not knowing the
lady’s identity. “Yes.” “Mean to stay long?”
“About five years,” quoth the Admiraless. “ Um.
Where will you put up?” “At Admiralty House,”
“ Admiralty House ! Do you know anything of its
terms? Are they reasonable?” The storyette
ends there, but Lady Poore is such a good
sport that one may be sure she didn’t give the
actor the Duchess of Lime Juice glare as described
in the Princess Novelette.
Do you remember Miss Beatrice Brahma (or was
it Bramah?), the actress who was imported by
Edwin Geach a year or so ago? Her engage-
ment to Captain Vibert, of the India, was
trumpeted wide and far, and the gallant salt
confessed himself dreadfully infected with the
microbe of love. Well, the troth is off. There won’t
be any Cupid’s gangway letdown from the liner to
the footlights in this instance. However, returned
Sydneysiders say that the captain is as jolly as
ever and thedady as cheerful as usual.
Through Mrs. Izett, honorary organising secre-
tary, Dr. Alan Carroll intimates that he is anxious
that all persons who have benefited through His
instrumentality should join the Child Study
Association as members. The cost of member-
ship is only ss. a year, and if the
member is tired he or she need not
work for the Association. The parents of
the ailing or crippled infants who were treated by
Dr. Carroll at the Child Study rooms haven’t, as a
rule, got a quintet of shillings that isn’t pre-
empted by the landgrouch—l mean the landlord
—or that isn’t wanted for the week’s food. But,
benignant personality at the C.S.A. These, and
all others who sympathise with the work of this
gentle and hard-up charity, are hereby entreated
to become members and to forward ss. either to
Mrs. Izett, 298 Pitt-street, or to me, “ Akenehi,”
c/o Bulletin.
London Daily Chronicle, in reporting the
proving of the will of the late Randolph Erskine
Wernyss, a well-known society and yachting man
in the Bull Country, prints amid much that is
commonplace this unusual provision :
So long as my son’s mother, Lady Lilian Mary Paulet or
Wemyss, shall remain alive it is my express wish that my
said son shall never allow the said Lady Lilian Paulet or
Wemyss, or any member of the Paulet family, to reside at
Wemyss Castle or on any part of my said estates, and if
he shall at any time contravene this condition, my trus-
tees shall forthwith cease to allow him the life rent of
the said castle.
It recalls a widely-discussed scandal of 10 years
ago. Randolph’s first wife, who was Lady Lilian
Paulet (daughter of the Marquess of Winchester),
divorced him about that time. His friends stuck
to him in glue-like fashion, and the lady’s friends
did the same by her. A few weeks after the
decree nisi was pronounced Randolph wedded
Lady Eva Wellesley, sister of that eminent
divorce expert, Earl Cowley. Thereafter a
deadly feud raged between the Wemyss
and Wellesley and Paulet families, so that
if a Paulet met a Wemyss or a Wellesley in a
public-house he did not ask either to name his
poison ; and would, in fact, have gone so far as to
refuse the loan of a mere match had a represent-
ative of these hated clans been so ill-advised as to
ask it of him. And for years past she-Paulets
have been cutting she-Wemvsses and she-Welles-
leys with frenzied earnestness. Now, the original
cause of it all, whose reputation in life was ever
that of a good hater, has carried the squabble be-
yond the grave. The son referred to is in the
navy, and there was talk the other day of his being
sent to these waters.
I note by a recent cable that Mrs. William
Waldorf Astor has “formally retired from the
leadership of New York society.” She objected
to the manners of N’Yark’s emerged ninetieth;
also to the vulgar ways of the Senators and
Members of the House of Representatives who
abound and bound in that sphere of influence. It
only shows how slavishly people in the U. S. A.
follow in the wake of our Sydney nobility. This
step, which foolish, notoriety-loving Mrs. Astor
has made so much fuss over, was taken here
several months ago by Mrs. MacWoolpax, a
prominent indigenous female of incredibly ancient
lineage. She, like Mrs. Astor, grew weary of the
heartless round of wild gaiety in which our
Smartest People indulge. The tram-rides, the
A.B.C. teas, the visits to the bear at the Zoo, the
raids on the cutlery of visiting men-o’-war. the
subscription hops in the various suburban Town
Halls, the Government House garden-parties
(where the scion of the old blood walks ever in
trepidation lest the identical individual who ca
sa-ed him for arrears of milk the previous week
may appear from behind an ornamental shrub,
scone and teacup in hand, clad in the full regi-
mentals of a colonel of the Bondi partially-nnpaid
Light Horse)—all these things ended by palling
somewhat. The social situation was in a parlous
way in other respects. Such members of the
House of Representatives as were available
for purposes of entertainment had grown im-
possible. G. Reid was liable to fall asleep
at the most exclusive of functions. B. Smith
had degenerated into a hardened quoter of
his own prose. Also, he shone to such an
extent, and looked generally so glossy and neat
that it was impossible for strangers to believe he
was one of the invited guests. People mistook
him time and again for the chief waiter. So in
desperation Mrs. MacWoolpax decided to abdi-
cate her job. She now lives with Mr. MacWool-
pax and a general servant at Paddington. There
appears something very paltry about the action
of this Astor person in plagiarising the attitude of
Sydney society’s ex-leader, and then deliberately
having the news of her malfeasance cabled far and
wide.
When Little Vera Dickerson had lifted up her
contralto voice at the annual meeting of the Ship-
wreck Relief Society, State Governor Rawson
toddled out of his way to ask Captain Webber
“ Where did you discover that wonderful child ? ”
The wonder-infant and her sister Edith (who is a
pianist) will be given a concert on October 21 at
the Town Hall, and the lion, secretaries (Captain
Webber and Mr. Hall) earnestly ask your support.
Your presence should be accompanied by certain
coins, so please go. and don’t forget the coins. Or
else book your seats in advance.
“Mario” writes from Brisbane :
Deadly things are perpetrated in the name of sport!
In the columns of Monday’s papers you learn of the suc-
cess of the eminent cyclist Beef, or the failure of the
scarcely less notable Mutton in Saturday’s cycling events,
and the idea you get is that the fixture eventuated in a
blaze of glory, and the hours danced by in a thrill of ex-
citement. But, alas, it is not thus. The Q.C.U. dragged
our pale but determined Ex. and his life partner out to its
championship meeting on Saturday. His Ex. watched
several monkey-like creatures whirling round on motor
cycles for about five minutes at a stretch, and then he
was hauled out of the windy stand, where he had been
foregathering with the South Side Mayor McCullough
and a few. of the cycling committee, to fire off a blank
cartridge. The explosion had the effect of setting about
ten other monkey-like objects (most scantily clad)
trundling “two-cycles.” In about three minutes a
chorus of yells told that the end was nigh, and then the
Dame of Chelmsford must needs brave the dust and wind
to drape with a firm hand one of the Darwinian theories
with a blue and gold sash. Cyclists are queer folk. For
one thing, thev wear their numbers, not where a self-
respecting Kugbyite has his (on his manly back), but just
at the spot where the Chinese Tommy Atkins carries his
hot box. .... j
Another hilarious evening’s sport was provided for Lord
Chelmsford when, with the long-suffering Verney in tow
he distributed about a horse-load of Sunday-school
placards to a host of small humans on Thursday, in a
church which is still known as “ the Aquarium,” because
a certain Rev. Whale once ministered therein.
However, the races on Monday were a shade less dreary.
Quite a heap of folk were waiting round to see the dis-
tinguished visitors bidden farewell. I also was there,
drawn by the never-failing fascination of the pair of
puffect gentlemen (brown with white stockings) that fill
the vice-regal collars. I don’t think a more aristocratic
pair of horses tap gravel in the Commonwealth.
It was with something of surprise that the public
learned that a newly-erected little church at Dunwich
(the old-age refuge down the bay) was erected, not with
public monev, but by his Ex. himself, who would no
doubt be greatly annoyed if he thought the matter had
leaked out. But it leaked all the same.
The bowlers whom you sent us under the able leadei-
ship of Bowling Association President Macleod were
returned in good order and condition on Friday. Every
team here took it out of them, but, to make up for knock-
ing their “ wood” about, the local men did their best tc
speed the hours pleasantly between games. Thus a trip
to Bundaberg and Maryborough enabled the visitors
to see a little of the land, and a euchre party gave them
ajchance to get away with a few trophies. These Sydney
men are devils for euchre, :and they' never take up the
left bower.
Society is in a flutter here just- now over a whisper of
the flitting of a well-known Her, who is understood to
have fled with Him and a couple of infants, leaving her
husband to battle with the remainder of the offspring.
I would like to break it to you gently that the commit-
tee of the Children’s Hospital is really going to open its
new infants’ ward next month. But the proper space
wherein to treat diphtheria is, alas! still afar off, and the
diphtheria season is almost upon us. Also many investi-
gations have failed to discover a proper milk sterilizer on
the premises.
We are losing a lot of our jolliest girls for the summer,
Misses Isabel Roberts and Marian Walker go Sydney wards
next month, and the sole remaining Gore maiden goes to
India about the same time. The John Collins clan writes
from Queenstown (Ireland) to state that all is well and
the “ pratie ” is green in the land. i
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


THE SIMPLICITY OF KODAK PHOTOGRAPHY
w
5r
mmm.
E
'
t '
' ,
• :
sesv®
F
afeasi.
is its greatest charm, and, next
to that, its assurance of the best
results both from EXPOSURE
and DEVELOPMENT.
As a Pastime for Young People it is
unrivalled, and, since the recent
REDUCTIONS in PRICE, inexpensive.
KODAK. * *
“BROWNIES”
from
Five Shillings each
to One Guinea
for the FOLDING " BROWNIE”
shown in the picture, which is itself
an enlargement from a "Brownie" film.
Daylight Development.
Daylight all the way.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD
Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
The Commonwealth Crisis.”
A Great Forecast Story,
By CHARLES H. KIRMESS.
N response to a recent offer of a prize of for the Australian
serial rights of a novel, The Lone Hand was offered 170, of which
10 were of really good quality. But of all, one stood out pre-eminent.
“ The Commonwealth Crisis ” was not a novel: it was a work.
With the cold, stern impartiality of the historian as to his facts
and conclusions: with a warm, vivid style as to his narrative, Charles H.
Kirmess puts before his readers a forecast which compels attention.
The central idea is that Japan decides to “ peacefully ” colonise the
Northern Territory, on the ground of its lack of effective occupation. How
the decision is followed up: the political, diplomatic and war consequences,
make up a story of irresistible interest.
“The Commonwealth Crisis ” is written dispassionately; with no abuse
of a great race ; with no glossing over of our own faults and follies. It will,
without a doubt, have a profound influence on the Australian thought of
the day.
This is a large promise ; but The Lone Hand can point to 16 months
of fulfilled promises to justify its readers in believing this.
Publication of “ The Commonwealth Crisis” begins in October. It will
continue over eight months, special arrangements having. been made to
print a large instalment monthly. Readers wishing to send this serial to
friends abroad should arrange their subscriptions now.
“THE COMMONWEALTH CRISIS”
Begins in October.
IT IS THE AUSTRALIAN WORK OF THIS CENTURY*
The New Edison Records
Are Now Available,
And they really are a first-class collection of British,
American and Grand Opera Selections.
You should call on your nearest dealer and ask him to
let you hear some of them. On request we will forward
his address and give a full list of Records and Machines.
American Records for July.
9866 Polish Dance No. 1 ( Scharwenka)
Edison Concert Band
9867 Needles and Pins (Helf) .. Edward M. Favor
9868 Tell me the Old, Old Story (Doane)
Anthony & Harrison
9869 Cupid’s Wedding Bells (Morse) Albert Benzler
9870 O’Brien Has No Place To Go (Evans)
Edward Meeker
9871 The Whistling and Singing Farmer Boys
(Fulton) Harlan & Belmont
9872 Smarty (Albert Von Tilzer) .. Ada Jones
9873 Fawn Eyes (Johnson)
Edison Symphony Orchestra
9874 Parson Jones’ Three Reasons (Longbrake)
Arthur Collins
9875 When We Are M-A-Double-R-I-E-D (Cohan)
Ada Jones & Billy Murray
9876 Queen of the Earth (Pinsuti) .. Alan Turner
9877 Whistle—lntermezzo (Copeland)
Edison Military Band
9878 You Have Changed the Winter in My
Heart to Glad Springtime (Havez) Manuel Romain
9579 When the Roll is Called Up Yonder (Black)
Edison Mixed Quartette
9880 I Was a Hero Too (Williams & Van Alstyne)
Billy Murray
9881 Medley of Irish (Original) John Kimmble
9882 Topeka (Jones) FrederickH. Potter and Chorus
9883 Nothing Hardly Ever Troubles Me (Albert
Von Tilzer) .. .. Collins & Harlan
9884 If I Had a Thousand Lives to Live (Soloman)
Allen Waterous
9885- The Rose of Mexico Waltz (Dunn)
Edison Symphony Orchestra
9886 Common Sense (Smith & Larkins) Bob Roberts
9887 The Frisky Fanner and the Modest Manicure
(Original) .. Ada Jones & Len Spencer
9888 “ He ” and “ She ” in Vaudeville ( Original)
Steve Porter
9889 Cubs on Parade (Hempel) Edison Military Band
British Records for April.
13707 Selection from “ The Waltz Dream ”
( Straus ) .. • National Military Band
13708 Sandy Boy ( Benn) .. Miss Victoria Monks
13709 What A Friend, What a Sport!
Jack Charman
13710 The Sleepy Canal ( Rubens ) Arthur Grover
13711 I Pity Myself, IDo ! .. Harry Champion
13712 The Plumber
Miss Winifred Harbor and Percy Clifton
13713 Surely Not Bert Brantford
13714 Abbreviations .. .. Arthur Osmond
13715 Girls, Study your Cookery Book !
Miss Florrie Forde
13716 I Love You (Aarons) .. Gwilym Richards
13717 X Wish I Were You (Parody) Billy Williams
13718 IjOhensrin—lntroduction to the 3rd Act
(Wagner) .. National Military Band
New Grand Opera Records.
B. 65 Eri tu (“ And Would’st Thou”)“Un Ballo in
Maschera ” {Verdi).
By Antonio Scotti, Baritone.
Sung in Italian. Orchestra accompaniment.
B. 66 Stride la vampa (“Fierce Flames Were
Raging ”) “ Il.Trovatore ” ( Verdi).
By Madame Jacoby, Contralto.
Sung in Italian. Orchestra accompaniment.
B. 67 Sono un poeta (“ I am a Poet ”) “ Laßoheme ”
(Puccini).
By Floreneio Constantino, Tenor.
Sung in Italian. Orchestra accompaniment.
B. 68 Ibr heisset mich wilkommen (“Ye Bid Me
Welcome”)“ Der Trompeter von Sackingen.”
(Nessler).
By Otto Goritz, Baritone.
Sung in German. Orchestra accompaniment.
B. 112 11 fior che avevi a me tu dato (“The Flower
You Gave to Me ”) “ Carmen ” (Bizet)
By Angilo Pintucci, Tenor.
Sung in Italian. Orchestra Accompaniment.
And Harry Lauder’s Famous “Stop Yer TicKlin’ Jocß.
M. Record No. 10170.
Write for Complete Lists of Records.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


The opening of the Federal Parliament,
which has just happened, is no guarantee of
achievement. For that it is necessary to, at the
same time, open a few bottles of D.C.L. Whisky,
and let flow that fluid’s cheerful inspiration to
Wisdom. Since Wisdom is necessary to the
progress of the country so also must be D.C.L.—
’ " T 1 ' 1 - - J w: ~" *
DUNLOP
Garden
Hos
'r Gives long service, does not kink '
or burst, and lasts for years.
Specify “DUNLOP” Brands, and i
you will get the Best Hose at a
reasonable price.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STOREKEEPERS
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane. .
and Christchurch, N.Z Sy
\
V v l
\
w
Jt\
J I
m
ms
/
Kelly Tyres
Are Solid Tyres of Pure Rubber
that absorb all vibration on
Vehicles. Ensuring Comfort to
yourself and doubling the life of
your Vehicle. We fit Tyres in all
sizes to all classes of Vehicles—
ranging from £5 a pair.
Illustrated List on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Perth.
Brisbane and Chrislchurch. N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 21, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Carmichaels are popular in the land of
Malvern. They smile to the golfer as he home-
ward plods his weary way, and they beam on the
babies, and a wonderful legend drifts through the
outer suburb that tells how Himself Carmichael
spoke to a stone-breaker.
The chooky-hen, fluffy, ducky gathering that
rustles into the galleries of the House for the
opening of Parliament had a special interest
on Wednesday. There was a new and so-
far unexploited Gov.-General to look at. Femi-
nine Melbourne rather resents the Dudley’s
conduct in arriving without his lady, for they are
thus debarred from the ceremonial welcomes.
Dudley filled the spectacular bill for them, never-
theless, and walked the floor of the House with the
poise and assurance of a beauty actor. He is used
to being counted “one of the handsome Wards.”
The gauds and ribbons of his uniform were packed
with nice discrimination on his be-waisted figure.
The twinkle of his eyes holds a warrant of wit and
perhaps a gleam for a colleen. The lower lines of
his face hide behind the impenetrable thicket of a
black military moustache. Our own Lord Dicky
—a little balder, a little older, but much more
cheerful-looking—dropped at once into his old
manner of putting the other aides through their
facings. These newcomers, who backed the guber-
natorial chair with a solemn stare, were clad in
neat primness of black and gold, and their
few inches were accentuated by the scarlet and
gilt length of Nevill and Legge. Lieutenant-
Colonel Legge is a young man of some importance ;
he has been recently appointed a member of
the Military Board. Naval CommandantsTickell
and Richardson flanked the gold-lace show.
The ceremonious opening of the oyster took
scarcely 15 minutes. The new G.-G. read a care-
fully boiled-down budget in a pleasant voice, and
then the “ Reps.” rushed oft to work. The women-
kind held Parliament on the stone steps and
watched the departure of his Lordship down an
avenue hedged with bluejackets and flanked with
brass band. The Dudley appears to delight in
pageant and pomp. Violet and gold postilions
rode carriage-horses with a kick of the devil in
them, and the swirl round of the cavalcade in the
brilliant sunshine from the foot of the Grey Stairs
to the crowd-lined width of Bourke-street was a
masterpiece of effect. Well, why not? The
populace might at least get a circus as one tan-
gible asset from its expensive Unnecessity.
The gaudy Mayoress was a pompous vision of
solid black and white. The Forrest dame spread •
petunia petticoats, and Mrs. Harper’s purple
dress made a background for a vision of a fair
woman in a white clo’ of adorable lace. Mrs.
Justice Isaacs hit up the almond shape of her
beautiful eyes with the Chinese colors in her big
hat: cerise and purple in close proximity, as arrest-
ing as the sombre crash of a gong of Chinese metals.
Mrs. Frank Madden was her usual assertive self
in black gear. Member Tilley Brown’s daughter
topped her shining locks with gay roses, and Mrs.
Iceberg Irvine peeped out of a cave of hair rolled
mightily en chignon. Mrs. York Syme, exploiting
a jeweller’s window stock on an expanse of pale
blue chiffon velvet, called loudly for her motor,
for she was one of a bevy of women folk who
went right on to the Camberwell wedding of the
moment. Captain Burton’s only chick was being
wed .with one Lysart.
This is the City of Sneeze, and our Elevated
Ones are all laid low, so to speak, which remark
applies except in the case of those who are
broader than they are long, and are consequently
higher when they are down than, when they are
up. The Carmichael Lady has been shut in
Stonington with all the remedies for an 18-carat
brand of cold in the head. The Prime Minister
and the State Premier and two dozen other big
guns are barking like a whole row of dogs hailing
the moon. Big John Forrest’s sneeze echoes
through the Grand, and his dame is just appear-
ing, much muffled, for drives in the sun and glory
of her new 25-h.p. Talbot car.
The Forrest dame ran two Westralian nieces
through the war of the Stars and Stripes, and
they came out with half-a-ton of brass button and
50 yards of sailor ribbon all told. To see the
amount of button annexed by Melbourne Girl
makes one marvel whether the departing officers
had all their garments held together with string
when they left.
Arthur Collins has been making overtures to
Sweet Neil Stewart for a short, sharp run of
several pieces of the Nell-Gwynne type—a week or
two of each, snapped on and off with the briskness
of a cinematograph film or the sudden shock of
the old axe style of execution.
Prof. Peterson and his musical minions burst
into a concert of chamber melody last week in the
deplorable Athenaeum Hall. I see that the “ pro-
ceeds” were devoted to “meeting the balance
still due on the new Normal Pitch instruments.”
This fact brings a retrospective tear to one’s eye. It
shows that, after all, Kubelik did not bite. Peter-
son, in a reception tendered to the Elf-man, dis-
played the much be-trumpe tedN.P. brassware; and
during his welcoming speech, the Prof, craftily and
pointedly, apd with a parritch accent, read out a
list of donations from visiting celebrities. Then
with a suave smile hedeclared theN.P. bill had only
£5O left to go. The collection plate was handed
round, I believe—but apparently the Hungarian
music-maker put a button in it.
The Max Schliiter musician, who combines the
full-face of an ideal Hamlet with the profile of
Fremiet’s idea of our unacknowledged great-grand-
father of the old, old tail, has been doing dretful
things in Suburbia. He and his wife and his
violin live somewhere in the neighborhood sancti-
fied by the residence of respectable people. In
fact the Schliiter folk live next door to Mrs. David
Syme. Max bought a gun (Heaven knows why !)
and neglfected to buy a pair of glasses at the same
time. Wherefore he went into the back yard and
fired his lethal weapon at a labyrinthodon pachy-
nathus, or a plesiosaurus that was sitting on the
fence and cursing in Sanscrit. Incidentally he
r hit it, and it turned out to be the favorite grey
parrot and live-long companion of the widow
Svme. That dame has been in mourning for her
pet. The ill-starred Schliiter has mourned even
more deeply. In reparation for the blood-stained
deed, he is said to daily serenade cocky’s grieved
mistress with sounds which are indistinguishable
from those once emitted by his victim. If it
weren’t Mr. Schliiter the whole story would
sound like an invention.
That dainty Deakinite. Stella—which is the
younger daughter of our Alfred—is by way of doing
surprising deeds in her laboratory. The slim young
woman is said to be on the extreme edge of an
important scientific discovery. People who know
have so impressed his Eloquence with a sense of
his offspring’s uncanny possibilities, that he has
consented to let her go abroad in search of the
particular shape in philosopher’s stones she wants
at v Y Jar as a pendant. She goes to Paris to join
Mudame Curie, of radium fame, whose husband
and co-worker was run over some time ago while
he sat in the centre of Westminster Bridge roadway,
°kh er desert, considering the constituents
of chaos. As she’s passionately industrious,
there s a fair chance that Stella will shine in a
wide sky before she finishes with her hobby.
More or less apropos to Miss Deakin, I’m
reminded of a professorial person’s statement
regarding skirts and science. He told me that in
his international experience, personal and other-
wise, of scientific students and schools, he’d been
astounded to find so much aptitude for that kind
of work amongst women. He maintained that if
you could catch your scientific female, and then cage
her out of the reach of matrimony, she would be
likely to do greater things than 90 per cent, of her
male brethren. Woman’s intuition again ! He
concluded, though, by saying despitefully that
most of the feminine crucible-stokers he’d known
had never been able to surmount “an animal
instinct for a burrow and cubs, which, when
achieved, served the purposes of disgracing their
intellects, and proving their unsuitability to
become the mothers of anything worth rearing.”
And after making that remark he got away alive !
Some people who evidently guessed at it, had
the idea that shipowner Doughty, the wealthy
knight who fell in love with the brilliant conver-
sation of Eugenia Stone—ex-“ Tryphena.” of The
Bulletin— and promptly married her, was a
rather stodgy old gentleman. Now back comes
Joseph (late Hector) Carruthers to tell a daily
paper interviewer that, “ though there is no man
with a great striking personality coming to the
front,” yet “George Doughty, a Conservative
member, who married an Australian lady journ-
alist, is considered the most brilliant speaker
Parliament possesses.” His speeches certainly
won’t be liable to sparkle any the less if ex-
“ Tryphena” has lOminutes alone with the MSS.
beforehand.
“The Smart Set system of entertaining is
simple, when you know it. Guests are supplied
in smart country houses with suites of rooms.
These suites have front doors—and knockers—and
latchkeys, also meals may be ordered from the
kitchens at any hour ! ! It is considered bourgeois
in the extreme to see your hostess, whose mission
in life is to see that you have everything, and to
leave you alone. Also you would be thought
‘stuffy’ if you ever dreamt of paying a florist’s
bill that did not reach the respectable sum of
£5O ” But I didn’t read any more. I tottered
out of the free library where I had been studying
a threepenny English paper of the kind that deals
with the aristocracy of Wandsworth-road, bought
a sixpenny spray of boronia. and cut the woman
that lives next door—cut her dead. That is as
much “Smart Set ” as I could live up to.
Two ladies on a Melbourne tram were lately
discussing a recent romantic marriage: “Quite
impossible—as far as her family is concerned,”
declared the thin one with the waspish nose.
“And his family is simply broken-hearted,”
chimed in the other. Then followed the names
of everyone under discussion. Neither of the
gossips noticed a pretty girl who sat opposite to
them, and it was only when she leaned forward
and handed them her card, sweetly remarking,
“I thought you would like to know who was
listening to your ill-bred remarks,” that one of
the females grasped the situation. Then she rose
up in the rattling tram and demanded to be let
out, and, dragging her companion with her, she
was let out. And, as they landed in the middle
of the road in a blizzard, and a drunken wharf
lumper lurched up against their store clothes and
wampum, the pretty bride laughed with glee.
There was a big upheaval at Melbourne Hospital
the other day. There had been a “creep” going
on for some time, and the landslide came with
such a “ plomp ” that the walls have been totter-
ing ever since. The committee (with S. Gillott
as acting-chairman) has had deputations slapped
at it with the rapidity of a quick-firing Maxim.
Sisters, nurses, wardsmaids, and wardsmen, even
the cheerful individual who is called the mortuary
attendant, have pattered in an appeal for better
wages. The wardsmaids came off best in the
fight, with an increase of Is. a week. The
Sisters (a Sister is the head nurse of a ward), who
had meekly requested a “rise” in their not-too-
lordly pay, were magnanimously granted an
increase of 9d. weekly—the Committee agreeing
to pay them at the rate of £42 for the first year,
£47 for the second year, and £52 for the third
year. A Sister only reaches the exalted position of
First Year after five or six years of probationary and
minor nurse’s work. As a rider, the Committee
added the amazing edict that a Sister’s reign shall
not exceed three years in most cases—six in the
chosen few. This is practically the sack whole-
sale. Most of the Sisters of Melbourne Hospital
are women who have given the best part of their
lives, and have overworked brain, body and heart,
in the interests of the hospital, so that there will be
some painful pulling up of roots before trans-
planting in other ground.
The hospital will be the poorer for its wild and
sweeping rule—and other institutions the richer
for the splendid women it foolishly sends away.
Two of the best Sisters have already accepted
other positions. One is now the matron of the
Infectious Diseases Hospital, and another—a
bright light in journalistic as well as surgical
realms—goes to matron the insane of Kew.
Others of untold knowledge in things gruesome
but wonderful leave shortly. The acting
matron—a Sister who has been 20 years in the
institution, and is probably the best authority on
typhoid nursing in Melbourne, or any other city—
will pack her trunk almost immediately.
The Garrison Artillery ball, not hampered by
great social weight of elders, but gold-laced,
youthful and light-footed, was a thing of joy. Di
Gilio put the newest electric speed into his
waltzes, and the galloping gyration, to tell the
truth, becomes rather appalling. Melbourne did
not realise the intensity of its modern whirliness
until the IJ.S.A. officahs drawled their disap-
proval. I heard one tootenant murmur soulfully,
“Oh for an American girl and a slow waltz on
that be-eautiful floor ! ” The waltz grows vastly
like a tarantelle. Talking of rapidity, a certain
military magnate certainly showed a strange indif-
ference to the rules of arithmetic in his choice of
a daughter. One so exuberantly grown up and
gay detracts somewhat from the carefully pre-
served youthfulness of dad.
Saw Percy Grainger walking up Port Melbourne
pier, piloted by musical-enthusiast Hamilton
Russell. Dear Percy has apparently quite out-
grown his delicate, fair, “ mammy’s-darling ”
look, and the mop of fair hair is tamed to almost
legitimate dimensions. Certainly the mane was
partly hidden by a wide sombrero, but he looked
turesque addition of a black eye. and a real
belligerent black eye it was. His other eye was
blue as usual.
The Australian Ladies’ Kennel Club show was a
howling success this year. It always howls, but
not previously was such a pinnacle of howl
attained. Mrs. Tony Rebottaro strolled about
with her great Dane in leash. He was in
.solitary grandeur; none other of his kind
competed. Bismarck is a silver grey, like a
small pony newly clipped. Danseuse Daisy
Wallace (Mrs. Miles Clifton), in a white
cloth dress, almost wept over the prize
wire-hair terrier, he so reminded her of her own
four-legged treasure left in London. Theatrical
folk seem fond of cat and dog life. I saw also
Miss Stella Gastelle in a little grey gown, and
Maorilander Amy Murphy playing with the Per-
sian pussies. Mummer Kolker had his wife with
him—a fascinatingly pretty girl she is, with corn-
colored hair and excellent taste in clothes gear.
She was all in Natier blue. Lady Carmichael
rose from a bed of influenza, put on an emerald-
green hat, and came with her sweetest smile to
hand out the ribbons to the prize darlings. Un-
fortunately, rain descended as in the time of Noe
(New Testament spelling), and visitors had to be
almost carried out of their motors across the por-
tico, during which period of arrival Sassiety
eschewed modesty and showed its under-
standings with the generosity of front-row
ballet ladies. Puss made a large and happy
corner of the show. The domestic animals that
adapt themselves to the hearth-rug are not
barkers at any rate, and here they curled silently
up on their cushions in all their prize furry glory,
like so many animated muffs. In a corner far
from the madding yap the committee and some
guests took tea, Mrs. President Waters, in soft,
brown toggery and an amazing hat, hostessing the
Governor ess and the Mayoress.
Thus “Tryphena,” from England -
The hatless craze is a fierce outbreak of the present
lukewarm season in John Bull’s country. Youths prome-
nade the piers of Margate, Folkestone, and Scarborough
bareheaded in all weathers and temperatures. Girls
follow suit, or if the suri be over-ardent, shield their faces
with midget Jap shades—the kind formerly used to fur-
nish an idle grate or disguise some hole or corner of a
parlor in a cheap fancy form. The effect is bizarre and
incongruous, for the bare head of Sweet-and-Twenty at
the seaside is not a brilliant chestnut tangle, or
a gay mop of recalcitrant tresses, or a care-
less, debonair cluster of waving ringlets; there-
fore it does not suit the sea-blown promenade.
Its severely restrained coils, controlled by a mass of iron-
mongery and fancy combs, are designed for the settings
of a commonplace villa parlor, and not for open-air patrol
in association with a nautical or peek-a-boo rig. The
Jap sunshade adds to the foolishness of the severely hair-
pinned structure. But the craze is here and apparently
is going to stay. Since the fashion is established no one
sees anything humorous about it, and the foreigner with
quizzing eyes grins broadly at the solemn parade of the
trippers and salt-sea sojourners, with their bleak though
circumspect top-coils, their quixotic paper Jap face-
screens, and (above all) the stolid air of self-consciousness
which is never discarded in England on any occasion, wet
or dry, solemn or gay, official or frivolous. The self-
consciousness of the John Bull population is one of its
cast-iron codes. That never abatesor thins down to any
appreciable quantity. It is always in evidence, spoiling
Augustus’ annual holiday and burdening Sweet-and-
Twenty’sfrivol most unnecessarily—blunting the edge of
her fun, robbing youth of its delightful nonsense, staying
the play of all frolicsome spirits. Everyone endeavors,
even at the seaside, to look superior and proper. Even
desperadoes and Ishmaelites have to be encouraged by
beer to fling form to the winds, and required to be fortified
by whisky before they will hurl themselves into frank,
unrestrained revelry. So on a holiday, at any salt-blown
resort, one sees the two extremes in humorous procession
—the severely-starched, prim, hatless youths and girl-
eens, and the rollicking, unbalanced, hatted couples
whose beers have rendered them lively, silly, and
flagrantly vulgar.
Another craze of the present hour is that of wearing
one color from hat-tip to shoe-cap. This remark refers
to the feminine turn-out. The sex is mole-colored in her
complete toilette, or cream, or Natier blue, or mignonette
green, or slate grey, but whatever color it is, it is
without break or interruption. Gamp and gloves
match. Or if anyone has the courage to depart from that
autocratic law, then portions of the toilet correspond
rigidly. The hat, shoes, underskirt and gamp all match,
with dress and gloves and veil for contrast. In extreme
cases a hat and gamp and underskirt harmonise,
as against dress, gloves, shoes, and handbag.
There are sets of jewels for every turn-out, and
they also match. Veils match the hats. Gloves and
stockings correspond. Complexions fall in as far as
possible with the general tone. More than one Frenchily
got-up dame in directoire role, from Paradise plume tip
to shoe-cap, has looked much like a toadstool—the
colossal head-mound and the note-of-exclamation figure
conducing to the fungus effect. Nearly always the poodle
or York terrier that accompanies the animate toadstool
is en mite. Whether its bark is painted to match is not
certain—everything else is.
One type of Englishwoman is sick of being out of things
when the moors call the men and the grouse attracts the
gun. She has, for seasons, in all kinds of weather,
tramped after the male slayers over the partridge covers
and the Scottish moors, and joined them at tiffin, and
even carted their chicken bones and plenteous bottles to
the cottages of the midday gorge. And that hasn’t con-
tented her. She wants to be more akin, so she has
learned to use the guns herself. And now she is content
—at least lam told so.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide, which used to be
called Tortoise Town :
A throng of old chums and Muecke relatives fore-
gathered at the Outer Harbor with open arms to welcome
the charming Crossley dame. The vessel was sighted
through a mile or so of coif and millinery convulsions.
And an utterly unchanged Ada they found her, looking
younger if there was any change, and with the same
brand of jolly smile that won Adelaide’s suscep-
tible heart of yore. She, and her tall medico
husband, and baritone Hamilton Earle were carried ashore
in triumph to “ The Myrtles,” the parental Muecke dwell-
ing at Medindie. There they stay for a few days while
Adelaide entertains them.
The first junketing in their honor happened at the
Lyric Club on Wednesday (16th) when the President and
Mrs. Bass 6 and all the members came out of their lair to
shake the divine Ada by the paw, and remind her how
much they enjoyed doing the same sort of agitated
movement five years ago. The club hasn’t been
so gorgeously arrayed for a long time. Great
trees of pink and white peach-bloom sprouted out of
every hole and corner, and the supper-table had daffodils
in its hair. A beauteous shower-bouquet and bunch of
boronia were presented to the guest by Mrs. Basse, who
was a dream in pearl-gre.y satin and old lace. The
Crossleychiffonswere shell-green,semi-empire, with panels
of sequined passementerie and quaint trimming of plaited
ribbon. And the beauteous rea-gold thatch had a shim-
mery green spray in it. The two pretty Muecke girls,
daintily white robed, were also on the scene. An orches-
tra a,nd some local singers provided sweet noises, among
the singers being Clara Kleinshmidt, a tall and newly-
discovered maiden, whose voice is nothing short of a sen-
sation. The Crossley dame handed her some felicitations
and demanded an encore ; and Mr. Hamilton Earle told
her that London was waiting for just such a voice as
hers. And lam informed that London is always waiting.
I believe it is the waitingest place on earth.
Quite a throng of straying South Australians tracked
home by the Orontes. The J. H. Finlaysons and their
daughter (he was formerly editor of the Rkgistkr) came
back after a lengthy absence in Bullopolis. The Malcolm
Reids followed suit. Dr. Rupert Hornabrook, who left
the local measles and went on a holiday six months ago,
returned to his clamoring patients ; and the Dick
Nitschkes threw their baggage on the beach and are
domiciled at the South Australian until such time as
they fly back to Britain. Mrs. Nitschke has for some
time been pursuing the arduous avocation of musical
secretary to the Austral Club in London, and brings
news of our basso Stanley Newman, piano-hammerer
Brewster Jones, and sundry other Australian seekers
after fame. . aß&ik .
The Liedertafel Jubilee at the Exlfi|Mß»pn Thursday
evening was an honorable burst andjvas
and audience. The Bach Society, Orpheus Society,
Choral Society, Glee Club and Broken Hill Quartette
Club, to say nothing of an orchestra 60 strong, lent their
aid, and there were 400 and 100 of the per-
suasion that buttons its clotnes at the back.
Contrary to general expectations, Percy Grainger and
the progenitor of Percy went straight on to Sydney
instead of dropping ashore in Adelaide, where sundry
relatives abide. The circumstance was the more cruel in
that his first cousin, Maud Aldridge, eldest daughter of
the Gresham Hotel, was just in the throes of being
married, and he would have been useful as a decoration
even if he didn’t make music for the event.
Mr. Barr Smith has been at it again. He has given an
annual Greek prize worth £lO to the 'Varsity, and a
fountain to the Botanical Gardens ; and those of us who
know no Greek can at least go and admire the fountain.
Anybody can understand a fountain, and as for Greek, it
is a dead language, and the corpse thereof ought to be
buried.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :
Previously acknowledged .. £5O 19 0
W. Oakden .. .. .. 5 0
J. C. Frazer .. .. .. 2 0
G. Gordon .. .. .. 2 0
W. Flynn .. .. . 2 0
W. Wakfield 2 0
G. Epple .. ... .. 2 0
J. McGill .. .. 5 0
Richard Kelly .. .. .. 7 0
£52 8 6


LAST!
Bill Lyne is going to protect Australian Oil with a bonus .- Vide Daily Papers.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
MONSTER BALLOT LOANS,
With or Without Security, and Free of Interest for Fifty Years.
NEARLY 200 PEOPLE HAVE ALREADY BENEFITED.
FIFTH DISTRIBUTION
Now Open and
Rapidly Filling Up.
Shares ss. ILacH.
The Regular Monthly Drawing; is publicly conducted in the presence of the Subscribers, the Pohce, and
the Press. Send 2 stamped addressed envelopes and ss. for each^ share vou require , ‘
STEPPING-STONE TO FORTUNE. Inter-State Residents should add postage fees to
All remittances promptly acknowledged by return of post, with Shares tor participation and full
Prospectus with Schedule of 250 Separate Loans.
(Stamps NOT accepted as payment.) V. GEARY, General Manner.
THE MUTUAL LOAN AGENCY, LIMITED, SUTTON’S CHAMBERS, 17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE. —In order to avoid delays or disappointment it would be advisabß for and Inter-State
applicants to immediately cut out and use the following APPLICATION I OK.M . ,
To the Mutual Loan Agency, Limited, Sutton’s Chambers, 17 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Please send me .... Share Warrants for participation in the next Distribution of Genuine
Prospectus.
Full name (Mr., Mrs., or Miss)
N.B. This Application Form is always good, and may at any time be used in appl}ing for your shaies.
Wm. ATKI NS & CO. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS,
449 & 451 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TURTLE BRAND
M
MINERS’
DRILL STEEL.
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
STEEL FOR EVERY PURPOSE KEPT IN STOCK
Contractors to New South Wales Government.
A Close Shave Without Scraping*
That is something EVERY razor won’t give you. But
the special hollow grinding 1 of the PLUM Razor silver-
steel blade guarantees a clean shave without irritating
the skin. Guaranteed and kept in order for two years
free of charge.
PLUM RAZOR 10/6, Post Free to any part of the world.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving: Soap, 6d>
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Single Razor, Ivory, Handle, 15/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Pair in Nilorocoo Leather Case, 217-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/-,each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street
Established 25 Years.
SYDNEY
s
- t
S'/
te*
\
BUY A
JERDAK “HOME” BATTERY
Write for OUR BATTERY BOOKLET. /
WE SEND IT POST FREE.
—instead of spending money on Drugs
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica,
Gout, Neuralgia, Nervousness, In-
somnia or Lassitude.
It is exactly the same style used the
world over by doctors and hospitals.
The “ Home Battery ” can be regulated
for a child or increased in power for an
.adult.
It has no liquids to be careful of—no
■wearing parts to replace —and costs
nothing for motive power, beyond an
■occasional few pence for the renewal of
the dry cells.
Price
POST FREE
and sold under a guarantee that we
will refund your money if the Battery
is not all we claim for it.
¥ T> T\ A lkT>C (formerly Osborn & Jerdan)
J O <4 MV OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electric ians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
yA CING
ROYAL' HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
IKE W SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Mrs. Bentley, Retreat Road, Bendigo,
sa y S: —“ I am always pleased to recommend
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. For years it has
been the stand-by in our family and always effects
a cure. 55 *
A. P. Woolley, Kellevie, Tas., writes
“We always use Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
in our home and think it a splendid medicine.
We gave it to our little boy for croup and he got
almost instant relief.”*
o ! a js
Vt: ,
. i
O
i. .*
**•>
■ €s -r.
N*
rvx
*y\
x
v
gs, -jm£tss s m£
Each star is aecac > The nec klace (second prize) is also made otlbct. goiu. Saunders, up
iffSfr * a
Business, Robbery, etc.
Pearling is one of those industries which the
nig«-er-loving crowd is dead-sure can t be worked by
white labor. To which T. J. Farquhar, a well-known
Thursday Island pearlshell-trader, says briefly, .Hot l
White divers, he adds, can learn all about diving- for
pearls, including a knowledge of the bottoms on which
pearlshell is likely to be found, in a couple of months.
He has himself employed white divers, who have given
him every satisfaction.
* . * *
Adelaide the other day had an experience of
which it hadn’t seen the like before for over 25 years—a
suburban land sale at which every block (over 40) found a
buyer. Moreover, the bidding was so brisk that the
whole business was through in less than three-quarters of
an hour. The land belonged to an English mortgage con-
cern which found the deeds stranded in its safe when the
tide of the last S. Australian land-boom ran out nearly 30
years ago. The Province hasn’t had anything that
could even be mistaken for a land boom since then ; but
five good seasons on end, with high prices most of the
time, have made such a change in Premier Price s neigh-
borhood that it hardly recognises itself nowadays.
4 ■* * *
“Machete” : Par re the gentleman from Mel-
bourne who carted beads or jewsbarps to Papua (B.
3/9/’o&\ and was caught on a falling market, is instructive,
and illustrates the weird notions which the big Australian
communities entertain of the Islands. It is safe to say
now that, in civilised Papua, tobacco is about the only
trade worth taking. Silver and coin generally are good cur-
rency. The good old days are gone when a Samarai trader
could pay his boys with corkscrews and white umbrellas.
The native money mentioned by your correspondent is
the best of all. It is very hard to buy, and is worth £4 a
fathom. It is strung on fibre, the orange-red shell being
ground into tiny discs of quarter-inch diameter. It has
a vogue in the Solomons and New Britain also. A
Papuan, especially a boy from the south or S.E. divisions,
will work or sell for this “ sapi,” when white man’s money
will not affect him. The great white bracelets, cut from
a cone-shaped shell, are also worth in some districts (Port
Moresby and neighborhood) at least £5 for a good piir.
The man mentioned in the par as refusing to cut
up oyster-sheils and stain them red was well advised.
He would never have imposed upon the Papuan, who is a
most keen and discriminating judge of his favorite our-
renew A trader in the Solomons, some years ago, im-
ported a large quantity of imitation shell-money, made in
Birmingham. An hour after the first “issue he was
fleeing for his life, and as his vessel was waiting with steam
up he lived to tell the tale. His imitation passed in every-
thing save that it was very brittle, and the real shell is
almost unbreakable.
“Henry Phelthatt”: Tlie city’s meat supply
grievance is a mere circumstance of a grievance com-
pared to that of the country, especially that part of the
country which X inhabit. The butcher (he is a meat
vendor on Saturdays only, and a mere Chinese fellow-
cocky the rest of the week) starts off bright and early
every seventh day with a kindly smile and a cartload of
cut-up cow. A band of early-door females, so to speak,
wavlay him long before he gets to the village. Before
their attack the Chow is quite helpless. Two of
them climb up the wheels, and lean over into
the cart. Two more get up on the shafts. Mrs. Trail
and Mrs. Skirt find accommodation on the tail board.
The more agile Mrs. Sludge gets right into the convey-
ance, while the rest poke round anywhere. Mrs. Sludge
passes the cow anatomy round to be sniffed at and other-
wise examined. Before it gets back to the cart it has
been handled by many doubtful Saturday morning hands.
The butcher says “Alii!” and “Whaffor! and finally
escapes with a little less meat and a good deal of extra
dirt. The town overhauls and sniffs, and passes it round
some more, and it is insanitary-looking flesh by the time
it reaches me. I often look at the meat and the Chow,
and don’t fancy either—l’m no great meat-eater.
* * * *
In an effort to “raise the status ’of the stiff
planting industry, the British Undertakers’ Association
has decided to fix a corpse-like eye on the craft s touting
activities, and to plant itself with coffinly firmness on the
“ loud ” burial advt. Probably N. Balm & Co. fear that
the competitive habits of the human-planting business
under Private Enterprise will culminate in a system ot
municipal burial. When everybody is deposited bv the
municipal authority, there will be no funeral advt., no
public announcement asking why you should goelsewhere
to be embalmed when Christian Berriel & Co. can be
rung up on the ’phone at any moment, no casket in the
window-in fact, there will be nothing to remind you
before vou are dead that your coffin is growing somewhere
all the time, and that your tombstone is waiting in the
Silurian deposit at one place or another. That will be a
blessed change, and the more N. Balm & Co. and their
rival, Christian Berriel, advertise the glioubshness of
their business, the sooner is it liable to come to pass.
» * . *
A. H. Elliott, an Australian inventor, has been
finding out that, when Uncle Sam says 2 p.m., he has a
habit of not meaning 2.45. Three years or so back Elliott
invented a penny-in-the-slot lock (you can see plenty of
them at railway stations), patented it in Australia, and
lately moved on with it to America to patent it there.
“Eli, what!” said Uncle S. “Here you invented and
patented a thing years back, and now you come along
and want to patent it here. No, sonny. You mustn t
dawdle like that. Two years is the limit. Wegneyou
that much time to get your papers in, and some more
reasonable time to start making the goods in this keuntrv.
If you don’t come up to time we’re sorry, but we can t
wait This keuntry wasn’t discovered till late, and we ve
got a power of back time to make up, so we've got to
hustle.” So Elliott had to leave without his patent, and
he reckons a few other Australians would be all the better
for knowing about the two-year rule.
* * * *
He who taketh down the Church is accursed, or
ouo-ht to be ; yet the deed is done now and then. The
teller of a Melbourne bank sometimes, in an expansive
moment, relates the tale of how seven preachers infested
his premises almost simultaneously, each carrying a bad
£lO note. A young man had done it. He was married
seven times in one day—always to the same girl, ills
name was Smith, or something like that. The girls name
was Jones, or something like that. Each time he had only
a £lO note about him, and the reverend hunted up the
change ; and he always remarked affably, while taking
the change, that his father and mother had been married
at that church and it gave him great and special pleasure
to he married there also. And as regards the viper whose
name was Smith and the asp called Jones (front name
Emma) there is no trace even unto this day.
* * * *
“Namoi”: Travelling out Longreach (Q.) way
recently, I struck a man with a mania for collecting
tradesmen’s catalogues. He was a boundary observer,
and was stationed far from the madding crowd. I was a
very tired human, riding a very tired nag, when I hit, his
humpv ; and when, after informing against the weather,
he exuded a suggestion anent tea and brownie, I felt the
influence of gravitation, and grazed. Whilst I was thus
occupied my host sat on a log at one end of the room,
poring continually over pamphlets from a huge, pile at
his side. “ Hansards ? ” I queried, more to break up the
hush than anything else, and thinking he might he a
mute, inglorious Henry George or Stuart Mill. N°> t n ®
replied, after a pause, “they’re catalogues. iouve
got a good pile of them,” I observed. “I ve got a lot
more in there,” he said ; and rising, he kicked open the
door of the second room. I gazed in, and it was likei a
stationer’s shop or the waste-paper basket of the goas
which is emptied every time there is a new heaven ana a
new earth. I investigated, and found there was nothing
dear or otherwise to the human heart that wasn t men-
tioned there. The latest in corsets jostled the most im-
proved traction engine and the surest pill. The secret oi
short-story writing was piled upon the art of doubling:
your income by consuming a course of someone smemor}-
training, and the mystery of a ripe old age oppressed a
description of the 20 best typewriters ever .invented.
“ It passes time readin’ ’em, an’ the pieters is lnterestin
to look at,” he said, “ so when I see a new one mentioned
I always send for it.”
THE LANDLORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the landlord, good and true,
A man full sound and solid ;
And I have mansions nice and new,
And hovels squat and squalid ;
And I have houses built on bogs,
And cottages unhealthy,
And humpies fit for homeless dogs—
What odds if I am wealthy !
They build me houses by the job,
And every chance I collar ;
The place I let for fifteen bob
Is worth at least a dollar.
I’ll let you half an acre good,
Full twenty feet by fifty,
With fences made of rotten wood,
On lease that’s short and shifty.
A bungalow you want to buy ?
Well now, I’ve just your measure—
You think the price a trifle high !
Why, no, the cot’s a treasure !
A gift, my friend, the aspect’s fine,
The place a perfect picture ;
The roof may leak, the walls incline,
The gate may be a fixture.
The floors are green, the windows stick,
The doors won’t shut—it’s splendid !
The drains are made of broken brick,
But they can all be mended.
The damp? Why, in the summertime
’Twill be so cool and pleasant,
You’ll bless the smell of mouldy lime
And say it’s just a present.
The place is built on slime and sand,
And there is garbage under,
But there are doctors close at hand —
We always share the plunder.
The tip is on that vacant lot,
It saves a lot of trouble ;
The septic cesspit’s on the spot;
The place is cheap at double 1
Now here’s a lease, all printed fair,
Just sign your name, sir—Thank you.
The last man died of typhoid there ;
I hope you’ll like it—blank you !
N.S.W.
WAIF.


If you tooK a PlanK o/MVood
about 5 feet long, 9 inches wide, and an inch and a half thick; and you
drilled two hundred and sixteen holes in it, each hole an inch and a
quarter deep, and a quarter of an inch in diameter; hammered two
hundred and sixteen steel pins into those holes, each pin slightly larger
than the hole it was driven into; and then hung a weight of about thirty
tons upon those pins—what result would you expect in a short time P
Would you expect the pins to remain firm and tight P
For one thing, each pin is tightly jammed into its hole, and thus,
acting like a wedge, tends to burst the plank asunder.
For the next thing, the tremendous strain on the pins makes them
like so many levers, ripping the plank apart lengthwise.
But suppose, in addition, some man comes along regularly and
twists those pins backwards and forwards with a tool.
They won’t be long in getting loose, will they P
Now, what if that plank, instead of being wood, were made of
solid, tough, homogeneous iron, equal in strength to steel; and the pins
are merely put into the holes, not hammered in P The thirty-ton strain,
or even double or treble that strain, will not have much effect, will it P
—and, seeing that the pins are case-hardened steel working in smooth
metal bearings, the aforesaid man may twist them about a few thousand
times without materially loosening them.
Now, all this applies to pianos.
The wooden plank, with its two hundred and sixteen wedge-
ħ
levers, is in imported pianos, because neither British
nor foreign manufacturers have as yet invented a
thoroughly practical metal wrest-plank.
The cast-iron wrest-plank, or plate, with its
steel pins, is in all Beale Australian Pianos, because
Beale & Co. are the first piano-makers to invent a
proper, reliable and effective metal wrest-plate, a part
of the usual iron frame.
• q* •?'
Therefoic ?
CATALOGUE FREE.
CASH OR TERMS.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 3.—The Beale-Vader
Patent Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
and the. end of the wrest-
plank cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
ORGANISTS : We do not sell music, but by chance some “ Dr.
Rimbault’s Organ Tutors” have come into our hands. Anyone
calling at our showrooms, 378 George Street, three doors from the
G. P. 0., Sydney, may obtain a copy free.
tm
'
Fig. I.—lnterior view of an imported piano, showing the relation of the
frame to the wooden wrest-plank. The wrest-pins and strings have been
removed so as to show the parts more clearly.
BR
SMg
*
a
Fig. 2.—A nearer view of the wooden wrest-plank of the piano shown in
Fig. 1. The first layer of the wrest-plank has been removed. Note how
the timber has split under the strain of the wires. This is an average
wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor worse than is usually found in
imported pianos. All pianos with wooden wrest-planks are, of course,
subject to the above fault, which cannot be remedied except at great
expense.
L
in
i
THE BEALE=VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 4.—A nearer view
of the Beale-Yader frame
shown in Fig. 3. Note
the wrest-pins and ten-
sion-screws contained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can he
adjusted to ANY ten-
sion, tight, medium,
or loose, by means of
the tension screws at
the back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
strings, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
without touching the
tension screws. Our
Pianos are tuned in the
ordinary way, by one
man only , from the front
only. Be sure to note
this, and when you go to
compare our pianos with
the imported you will
know what to think if
you are told otherwise
by unscrupulous com-
petitors.
BEALE’S
"THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
837 Hay Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane)
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
-■- ' ■ i
Branches throughout the Commonwealth.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING '
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, _ is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
*» Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RHEUMATISM.
Lumbago and Sciatica.
Rheumatism, lumbago, and sciatica, are three
of the most common and most painful complaints
in this country, especially in the cold districts.
They practically arise from the same cause, and
the names only distinguish the location of the
disease. If the arms and legs are effected it is
called rheumatism ; if in the loins, lumbago ; and
if in the hips, sciatica.
The attacks are generally brought on by chills
when the body is overheated, or by exposure to
damp or cold draughts, which act, not upon the
bones or muscles, but upon the uric acid in the
blood, which is the cause of the disease. Uric
acid is found in small quantities in manv articles
of diet which, when consumed, pass into the
blood. The failure of the liver and kidneys to
filter and absorb this acid leads to an accumulation
in the system, tends to clog the circulation, and
hardens the tissues forming the blood vessels.
Thus every movement of the affected parts causes
you intense agony. The pains are affected more
or less by cold or heat. A damp day will double
you up, or the warmth of the bed will intensify
the pain.
Mr. Henry B. Stretton, 2(5 Albert btreet.
Erskinevilfa, Sydney, writes:—“For six months
I had beer* laid up with muscular rheumatism,
and was trdftted for three months in the hospital
with it. The doctor and his medicine did not do
me the least bit of good. The attack was first in
the left leg, and it gradually worked up into the
back, and I would be doubled up with the most
cruel pains. I suffered like this, as I say, for
fully six months, and at last I decided to try Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as I had heard so much
about them. I was very pleased to notice that
after using a few bottles I began to improve, and
afterwards I completely recovered, and I now
swear bv them.”
In order to effect a cure Dr. Morses Indian
Root Pills and Comstock’s Nerve and .Bone
Liniment should be used as directed. Obtainable
at all chemists and stores, or will be posted by the
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt btreet,
Sydney, on receipt of price. Pills, Is. lwd. (six
bottles, 6s. 6d.); Liniment, 2s. 6d. (six bottles,
13s. 6d.).
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & 00., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Frank Birtles, the overlanding cyclist, was,
when The Bulletin went to press, expected to arrive in
Sydney at about 5 p.m. on Wednesday afternoon, and
the Cyclists’ Union was preparing to do him proud. Men-
tion of overlanding recalls that the first and greatest of
Australian exploring cyclists, Donald Mackay, is now in
Papua attempting the impossible. His original intention
was to traverse the island from the mouth of the Perari
River to the head waters of the Fly, then to build canoes
there and descend the stream. But when he arrived off
Perari he found landing impossible ; the monsoon was on,
and the sea was breaking eight miles from the shore.
It was not till he saw the Governor at Samarai
that he discovered he had arrived at the wrong
season of the year, and the result is that the Merrie Eng-
land will land him and his party at Hall’s Sound, 150
miles away from the proposed starting place. But Mr.
Mackay is a sticker, and he’s going on, despite the in-
creased expense and serious loss of time. As he is spend-
ing £2500 of his own money on this expedition (no one
else is spending anything), the hitch means a good deal to
theexplorer. Thegreatdangeris that provisions may give
out, in which case things will become serious. Other expe-
ditions have started the same way, but only the strongest
of the natives have returned, and there are weird
rumors to the effect that they killed and ate,
first the white men, anil then the weaker of
their own countrymen. As Mr. Mackay has only two
white men with him, and the country is teeming with
savages who kill strangers at sight and eat them after-
wards, and yet have to be depended on for food supplies,
the journey is going to be full of thrills. The Papuan
cannibal is a hog of the first water, and, if possible,
always tortures his captives to death by a slow process of
skinning alive. If the natives prove too hostile and pre-
visions beginto run out, Mr. Mackay will bustle down the
first decent river he comes to, and give up the attempt to
reach the head waters of the Fly. But, after all, the
greatest danger lies with his own followers, of whom
there will be over a hundred. Three white men with over
a hundred niggers is a dangerous position at any time,
and where some of the hundred have a taste for human
flesh the danger is accentuated. Donald Mackay has
done some wonderful things in the past and come through
some very tight places, but this trip, whether he gets to
the Fly source or comes down some of the other streams,
will be the most dangerous exploring job ever undertaken
in Australasia.
* * * *
There is talk of reviving the Sydney Thousand
cycle race in March next, when it is believed that Frank
Kramer, the American flyer, will be visiting Australia.
But writer has his doubts. Professional track cycling
seems to be so utterly dead that nothing but Time or
Gabriel’s trumpet can bring about a resurrection.
» » * *
Goulburn to Sydney cycle race threatens to be-
come a perquisite of the Robinson (Cooma) family,
brother Mark having scored his second win of the event
on Saturday. There have been only seven Goulburn to
Sydney races, and the Robinsons have won three of them,
twice (1905 and ’08) per medium of Mark, and once (1904) per
T. C. Robinson. This year’s race was remarkable in
more ways than one. The field (110 starters) was a
record for the event, and Tom Larcombe, who was on
scratch, broke the previous record—G. Horder’s 6hr.
37£min. —by 2Jmin., and secured the trophy for the fastest
time. W. J. Ransley, the one-armed rider from St. Mary’s
(N.S.W.), put up a magnificent run and led thewhole field,
making his own pace, for 123 long, weary miles ; and then
Mark Robinson and W. Larcombe, pacing alternately, cut
him down with onlv eight miles to go. Nevertheless he
finished third, and the League of Wheelmen is raising a
subscription to commemorate his plucky and wonderful
ride. Ransley and the rest made the pace a rush from the
start, and the rear men had to fairly fly to get a look in,
with the result that for the first 80 miles the average
speed was over 20 miles an hour. Then the pace began to
tell, and men cracked up all along the track. The Dunlop
people, who promoted the race, had the satisfaction of
seeing the first three men and the fastest and second
fastest time-makers all riding their tyres. Tacks were
again conspicuous by their absence.
On Thursday last the agreement between the
Mclntosh and Murky Johnson, under which the latter
undertakes to fight Tommy Burns in Australia, was duly
signed, sealed "and delivered. The disturbance will
eventuate in Sydney on November 30. The Mclntosh is
jubilant, and the Stadium is to be enlarged to accommo-
date the huge crowd that will certainly roll up to watch
this most-talked-of of all fights. The winner will receive
£4200 and the loser £2BOO. In addition, Johnson will re-
ceive £5OO for expenses. All of this means that the
Mclntosh will have to sell an enormous number of tickets
before he gets a bean for his syndicate. Therefore he
ought to keep his world champion locked up, and not
allow him to go out hunting, as he did last week, when
Mr. Burns’ horse came down and gave the valuable pro-
perty a nasty shaking. Johnson lost no time, and the
day after the agreement was signed he left England for
Australia in the Ortona. So apparently the colored
gen’l’man was all ready, and had his gripsack packed in
anticipation.
“ Drift ” : “iO.K.” viewed the Burns-Lang
squabble with a jaundiced eye, judging by his contribu-
tion (B. 10/9/’08). All things that Thomas did came alike
to “ 0.K.,” and all were unsatisfactory, and unexpected,
and depressing. He talks contemptuously of the “ cli ncb-
fighting ”of Burns. Now, Burns is a scrupulously fair
battler. “ Clinch-fighting (viz., “hitting while holding ”)
is not allowed by the code of rules under which he fights.
The perfectly justifiable in-fighting, of which Burnsga ve ex-
positions in Sydney and in Melbourne, has been permitted
in prize-rings the world over. Of late years boxing has
degenerated a good deal in the Commonwealth, as in the
United Kingdom, wherefore the fine points of close fight-
ing have been neglected. But no man ever got into
the genuine championship class without an intimate
knowledge of such points, nor ever will. Burns does a
little more of this style of warfare, just as Jim Jeffries
at his best did a little less, than the average pug. But
hitting at close quarters doesn’t exhaust Burns’ box of
stoush tricks by any means. At work with his sparring’
partner O’Keefe, he stands off and delivers long shots
freely—for O’Keefe is no slouch at close practice himself.
It was a piece of obvious ring-generalship on Burns’ part
to employ with Squires and Lang the tactics in which
they were least skilled.
As a lover of reasonableness and a fair thing, I
take exception to “O.K.’s” talk about Lang being
“beaten (by his nervous temperament) before he went
into the ring” owing: to his being kept waiting “45
minutes after the time when T. Burns, Esq., should have
been performing.” Thirty-five minutes of the said delay
had nothing whatever to do with Burns. And most of
the remaining minutes were occupied in ill-judged pro-
tests from Bill’s corner aiient the Yank’s arm-band. The
best proof that Lang scorns “ O.K.’s ” theory that Burns
licked him (Lang) partly by “ working points ” before the
disturbance and partly by landing him a foul hit while it
was in progress, is to be found in the two facts (1) that
Lang- didn’t claim for the alleged foul hit, (2) that he
volunteered to a newspaper man a couple of days after
the fight that “Burns was simply too good for me.”
Without question, Lang lost to Burns for the
same reason Squires did—because though, like Squires, a
game, strong customer, he is not within megaphone call
of the other’s fighting class. For every hit Lang has
Burns owns four or five. Lang could no more acquire
Burns’ amazing footwook than T. Bent or the elephant at
the Zoo could acquire the dancing skill of Ford of the
“Red Mill.” Lang has not a quarter Burns’capacity for
taking punishment, nor a fraction of the knowledge
that lands the American in the ring a scientifically-
trained animal every time.
* * # #
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. on Saturday
last blew the dust out of its carburetter, and followed the
pennant of Vice-Commodore F. J. Etnpson to Mosman,
where a couple of races were sandwiched in between
afternoon tea and other refreshments. The Vice-Commo-
dore, who not only looks the part, but dresses it ex-
quisitely, was in excellent form, and promised the ladies
that in future the club would cater for them more exten-
sively. Ladies’ races and Venetian nights are to be re-
stored to the club bill of fare on an extended scale. And
the V.C. is right. The Venetian nights were periods of
beauty and experiences of delight—bright streaks that
broke into the monotony of life and left behind them an
impression of a long, long holiday. The racing
comprised two events—the affair for boats of 8-m.p.h.
and under, in which nine started,' and that for boats over
8-m.p.h., in which four started. The small boats’race
went to Ji B. Holdsworth’s Lee by two seconds. Only
half-a-second separated Sadie and Kelvin for second and
third places. The big race went to the Invincible, which
averaged 18J miles an hour for the run, winning by one
minute from the Midora, with the Betty half-a-minute
behind the second.
The shipping companies have not yet wakened
to the value of the motor launch. Had the Hawea
carried a fast, ocean-going boat like, say, the Invincible,
it would not have drifted around for weeks, as the
motor boat could have brought assistance within 30
hours. The same lesson sticks out like a flagpole in con-
nection with the Aeon. In that case there happened to
be a motor-engine among the cargo, and the crew
promptly broached the cargo, and, fitting the engine to
a boat, communicated with Fanning Island. Yet the fate
of the ship would have been known long before had the
Aeon carried its own launch.
* • * *
Owing to the paucity of entries, the Automobile
Club of Australia has abandoned the race for the 100-
guinea cup which Mr. Joynton Smith offered for a trophy
for a race on his course at Victoria Park. Only 10 cars
nominated, and as they were a rather unrepresentative
lot the Tours Committee regretfully but firmly dropped
the whole proposal overboard.
When the Carlton team stepped on to the
Metropolitan Cricket, Ground last Saturday to deal with
St. Kilda in the second of the Vic. League semi-finals,
the 25,000 spectators who crowded round the railings
settled down for a joyous afternoon’s amusement. Play-
ing- with their accustomed certainty, and marking and
kicking with deadly accuracy, the “ Old Blues ” notched
three goals in 10 minutes. Then the Holy men, adjured
by the barrackers, flung- themselves into the fray and
drove the ball down to Carlton’s goal, but their
kicking was lopsided, and from three fair shots
they got but three behinds. The Northerners
had another go, and put up a goal and a be-
hind. These episodes consumed about 20 minutes —
and that was all the football there was that day ; for just
then the Heavens opened and the wind whipped round to
the west and flung a storm of rain and hail on players and
spectators. Umbrellas were useless ; there was a wild
rush for any shelter the place afforded. In five minutes
the ground was a shining, slippery sheet and the drains
at the fence were creeks; yet the players kept at
it ceaselessly. Peering under dripping hats and
brollies, one got a glimpse, through the grey,
driving sleet, of a lot of sloppy, sodden, stained figures
out on the pond, and at times a round, brown
thing would land from somewhere and plunk away into
the mist again, marking its course by showers of spray.
Big figures in black pants floundered by, chased by lighter
and swifter ones in whitey-brown dittoes ; a turn, a mis-
kick, and the ball rolled into the creek, while the figures slid
along in the squashy mud, helpless and reckless. It was
magnificent aquatics, but it wasn’t football. The
welcome half-time bell sent the players leaping
over the railings to shelter and warmth, while
two-thirds of the spectators splodged sadly home-
wards with a comprehensive curse. _ The scoring
board showed, Carlton, 55 points ; St. Kilda, 4 points;
but few troubled to look at it. At lemon-time the scores
were 58 to 5 ; and though, in the last quarter, the Saints
redeemed themselves from utter disgrace by getting
three goals and as many behinds, the ultimate result—
Carlton, 12 goals 12 behinds to St. Kilda’s three goals
eight behinds—fully justified those cautious souls who
tucked up their duds and hied themselves thence when
the first warning drops fell.
* * * *
While this downpour was occurring to the
Seniors, the Junior semi-finalists—Footscrav and Fitzroy
—were having an even gaudier time at the North Mel-
bourne gluepot. They battled on through the storm till
quarter-time, when the umpire succumbed to cramp.
Both teams then rushed for shelter, and dried and tidied
themselves while the V.J.F.A. Umpire and Permit Com-
mittee was hastily summoned and another umpire ap-
pointed. When he was ready to get out into the flood, it
was found that half the players were dressed and
about to start home. Then for a long space the spectators
—those that remained —vvere amused by the spectacle
of comfortable-looking, warmly-clothed committeemen
strenuously urging shivering, lightlv-garbed players out
into the mudhole, and pleasantly discoursing on the joy
and riot of slithering round in the slush. Some of the 36
peremptorily declined to slither, but a majority was ulti-
mately got going, and kept going without any half-time
spell till almost dark, when the board showed ’Scray, 29 ;
’Roy, 17 points. The result leaves ’Scray and Yarraville
to battle out the final between themselves, even as they
did last year.
West Adelaide has a tight grip on the South
Australian Football League premiership. On Saturday,
Norwood (the team Which toured N.S.W. not long since)
was dragged in the mud between showers, the final scores
showing: West Adelaide, 6 goals 15 behinds; Nor-
wood, 3 goals 6 behinds. Norwood, however, has
another chance, and, as winner of the minor premier-
ship, will again play West Adelaide next Saturday, to
settle the premiership.
* * * ♦
Soccer football is still lingering superfluous, like
the ghost around the residence of the late departed ; and
last Saturday at Sydney Sports Ground and in divers
other places within the realm of Wade, partially-dressed
people sweated and toiled at a series of inter-district
games. The excitement centred round the meeting
between the Sydney Metropolitan and North Coast dis-
trict teams, and great was the struggle. The country
team did all the aggressive work and played sterling foot-
ball, but was finally beaten by two goals to one. It was
the fine goal-keeping of Spencer that won the game for
the Metropolitan crowd.
Next May a Westralian Soccer team will raid
N. S. Wales, and the local men are even now making-
arrangements to give the raiders a fitting reception.
Next whiter isn't likely to see much Rugby in
North Queensland. The Northern Rugbyites are full up
of their treatment by the Queensland Union. During
country week in Brisbane the Northerners defeated the
Central, Southern, and Western districts without any
trouble. The country team, which subsequently walked
over the Metropolitan fifteen, was largely Northern ; yet
only three or four Northmen managed to get into the inter-
state team against N. S. Wales, and not one was selected
to represent the State against the British team. As the
Northern kicker plays for the sport he gets out of
the game, he’s not going to turn professional, so lie’s
going to play Soccer. At Townsville, the headquarters of
the Soccer executive in Queensland, the British Associa-
tion game has almost ousted Rugger, and next season will
see the game at Charters Towers and ltavenswood.
The visiting N.S.W. team of bowlers was well-
nigh trodden out of existence in Queensland. In the
three “test” matches, the Bananalanders defeated
N.S.W. by 121 to 66, 119 to 83, and 104 to 82—an ag-
gregate of 344 points to 231. As a result, there is a
vigorous demand to put another tail on the already
gorgeous Queensland peacock, while N.S.W. mourns de-
jectedly in sackcloth. *
The canonisation of the late G. G. Stead took
the form of the G. G. Stead Memorial Gold Cup, estab-
lished by the Canterbury Jockey Club. The value is
750 sovs., but 200 of them are represented by a gold cup,
and out of the balance the second and third horses will
receive 100 and 50 sovs. respectively. The fixture is a
w.f.a. one, and the distance a mile and a quarter, with
total entrance fees of £B.
The English and French hockey associations
have an international agreement which, in a manner of
speaking, provides for extradition and other things, and
the French society is now communicating with the Aus-
tralian associations with a view to making similar ar-
rangements with them. It is probable that before long a
body of roving Frenchmen, properly authorised and re-
commended, will make a tour of the Australias at their
own expense, and play international gamesfor the loveof
the sport. There is no doubt that hockey is growing
popular in Australia, but the extension of the game is
hampered by lack of funds. Next season, it is hoped, it
will be possible to secure at least a few grounds where a
small charge of admission can be levied. Thus funds
will be raised to put the game on a financial footing. At
present it is all outlay and no income.
* * * *
Australian cricket is in for a period of rigid
retrenchment, and the days when a cricket tour was a
money-making business are gone for some time, if not for
ever. In future, players will receive for expenses sums
ranging from 3s. to 7s. fid. per day, with no allovyance for
loss of time. If they 7 cannot afford to lose the time they
must just give up the idea of making cricketing tours.
Which is eminently proper and reasonable. Cricket is a
sport to be played for the benefit derived from it, and not
a money-making business in which young men who are in-
different workers can make money by semi-professionalism.
The gentlemen who are usually understood to represent
the players have accepted the annnouncement with all
the composure that could be expected, and though some
of them did object to the secretary and landlord of the
Association being paid so much while the players have to
submit to a reduction, they recognise that the reduction
is inevitable. The real row will commence when the
Board of Control formulates the terms on which the
players of the next Australian XI. will go to England.
Then we shall hear things !
S.A. Cricket Association has decided to put up
a “merit board ” in the Oval pavilion. Adelaide Register
provides the historic details, which show George Giffen
top of the first-class batting averages six seasons, and of
the bowling nine times. Four times he brought off the
double. Between his first and his last bowling triumph
there were 21 years, 1880 to 1901! Lyons was top batsman
twice and once (a thing most people have forgotten) top
bowler. Ernest Jones headed the bowling- four times,
and Clem Hill has been best batsman nine times in the
last 14 years.
A disturbance, which is likely to be the first of
many, has broken out between the Hawthorn (Vic.)
Cricket Club and Vic. Cricket Ass. Last year Hawthorn
won the second-grade pennant, and, under the terms of
the agreement entered into between the Ass. and the Vic.
Cricketing League, it was entitled to promotion to the
first grade. But, according to Hawthorn, the Ass. has
now turned dog on it, and has altered its constitution so
that the club has been deprived of its well-earned rights
to smite in better company. Moreover, the Ass. has
changed its alleged mind and has refused to give the sub-
districts representation on the Association. So Haw-
thorn has passed a resolution, threatening withdrawal
and re-formation of the old League if the clubs which are
in a similar position regarding representation will with-
draw also. Seeing that each one of them would, presum-
ably, have received the same shabby treatment if it had
coliared the pennant, the chances are that they will stand
by Hawthorn.
* * * *
Judging by the doings of last season, baseball
has a good foothold in Sydney and its environs. Last
year saw the game organised on a district basis and the
metropolis divided up between North Sydney, Middle
Harbor, Lane Cove, Leichhardt, Paddington, Waverley,
Randwick, University, Petersham and Burwood. In
the division the cricket territories were followed
as closely as possible, and the result was that
the game boomed as it never boomed before.
Paddington won the championship, and holds the
Rawson Cup and the Spalding Pennant—the out-
ward and visible marks and tokens of superiority. The
second-grade championship went to Waverley, whereof
the B team (this isn’t a swear) won the Kelly Cup. The
cricketers take kindly to the game, it being a winter
sport which keeps their muscles in order without forcing
them to get into the mud as football does.
Maoriland sculler Whelch having withdrawn
his objections to rowing on the Hunter River course, it is
possible that the match between him and big Ben
Thoroughgood may yet come off. The Akaroa man has
commenced training, and is expected to arrive in New-
castle in about 17 days from writing. He is anxious, if
possible, to row on King’s Birthday.
The ten-miles cross-country championship of
Victoria underwent a trying time last Saturday, when a
collection of some 210 harriers toed the line at the Caul-
field Cup start, and broke away with their usual wild rush
up the straight. They met a storm—a violent affair that
carried atmospheric icebergs with it and ate into the
bones of the sparsely-clad runners, and in a great
many instances settled their hash. Though the weather
was violent, the wet had not disturbed the going
sufficiently to make it heavy, and consequently the
time was g'ood. Jimmie Imrie, a lean and much-fancied
ped was first to show the way after the squibs hud
netered out, and he covered the turf with the effortless
stride of a champion. But out near Oakleigh, where the
runners turn for home, the weather had damaged Imrie s
running capacity, and his club mate Charlie Ryan was
at the head of affairs, with Suffren (Ballarat), McMillan
(Hamilton), McMieken and J. A. Stillwell in close attend-
ance On the run home across country and on the race-
course, Ryan did all the donkey work, while Suffren
and McMiilan hung like leeches. The three were together
over the last lap on the course, but 150yds. from home
Ryan came down at a hurdle, and Suffren won with
20vds. to spare. Ryan recovered quickly and beat
“ Mac ” for second place. The leaders displayed no ability
fpncers and a good man over the sticks would have
licked them easily at the last obstacle. The clocks ticked
off fiOmin. 21Jsec. for the surveyed 10 miles and
the first four runners, including ex-champion Stillwell,
beat 6lmins. for the journey. Victor Aitken, who arrived
from the Olympic Games a week prior to the big pad, ran
Into sixth place. Essendon won the teams competition,
placing 4th, sth, 12th, 14th, 16th, and 21st men. East
Melbourne finished second, and Melbourne third. Alto-
gether 160 runners completed the course before the
officials retired for food. Meantime search parties went
out on stilts or in boats to gather in those who had sunk.
Charles Suffren has shown a pair of winged
heels during the last six months. He annexed the three,
five and 10 miles championships of Victoria, besides cross-
ing the Murray t’other week and gathering in the five
miles cross-sandhills championship of New South.
“ Suffey ” has chased wind and paper for some 12 years,
and has usually gone to pieces in the Victorian 10-miles
race. However on one occasion he arrived home third.
Charles of Ballarat is also a handy oar in an eight, and
lias captured a sculling race or two. In the matter of
age he turns the scale at 30 or so.
« * * *
The Victorian A. A. A. rigged up some sort of a
reception to poor Geo. Blake and V. Aitken on their re-
turn from London last week, whereat the sorely-defeated
Olympians took the opportunity to say something. What
they said about their failures might very well have been
left unspoken, seeing that their capabilities as footraeers
are well known. Blake protested that he and his mate
were not far behind the best, which is true enough, and
Aitken mentioned that lie ought to have finished at least
third on the Marathon race had he not twice fallen asleep
on the journey. More interesting were the peds.’ dis-
closures of the neglect they suffered in England. Accord-
ing to Blake there was a sum of £13,000 collected
on behalf of the Olympic contests and contestants,
and an Australian sport resident in England donated
100 guineas to the fund, but the boys from Australia were
out in the cold as regards the consumption of all this
capital. “The money went in picnics, tea parties,
dances, etc.,” said George .Blake, an assertion that seems
to throw a sidelight on the fact that the local champions,
who presumably were to the fore in the dances, picnics,
etc., figured freely in the rear at the Stadium contests.
Anyhow, the Australians got no sort of joy from the
money which was subscribed. Hence the question arises
as to why the three Victorian Commissioners —gaud
Mayor Weedon and co.—didn’t emerge from their insig-
nificance in London to put in a claim for proper consider-
ation of the athletes who had come over to do battle for
the Bent State.
The front-rank amateur "billiardists of Mel-
bourne got another cold douche last week, when
N.S.'VV, champion Belfield made pork and beans of local
champion Tricks. The latter had no chance on “form ”
of winning the game (3000 up), but he was expected to
cause the more brilliant player a little anxiety about the
result. From first to last it was a soft thing for Belfield,
and he finished with 1245 points to the good, on which
figures he looks capable of giving the best amateur in
Victoria a start of 400 in 1000. Belfield, of course, is an
exceptional artist, almost as good as the best non-
professional in Britain, where there are men who “sleep
on the table” all the year round. All the same, the
Victorians are absurdly out-classed at present. Tricks is
distinctly superior to the rest of them, and he looks a
rough, unready performer when put to the inter-State
championship test.
The same old thing is happening in S.
Aus. Some years ago, amidst a great many Anti-:
Sosh scoffs, a depot was established for freezing
lambs for export. The scoffs continued for years
till the depdt grew into one of the biggest tilings
in S. Aus. Now that it has given a tremendous
shove along to “mixed” farming, and has put
up the value of average land about £1 an acre,
Anti-Sosh is throwing out its chest and saying to
the farmer—“ See, I did that for you.” Anti-
Sosh is never ashamed to claim credit for the
good effects of Sosh. It wants credit for some-
thing, and it knows that it can never get any out
of its own worn-out doctrines.
Although they have maintained a master-
ful silence on the subject, the owners of daily-
papers, especially in Sydney, are said to be appre-
hensively watching the ballot now being taken by
the Australian Workers’ Union. This wealthy
fighting organisation has been considering the
question of carrying the war into the enemy’s
camp by bringing out a daily Labor paper, and
the ballot that is now being taken is to decide
whether it shall make an immediate start. If the
verdict is favorable the first paper will be issued
in Sydney, and will be followed at short intervals
by others in Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
The A.W.U. is the concern which runs the
Worker, the Sydney weekly that has been going
ahead so fast of late, and it is in the position to
start a Sydney daily without spending a sixpence
on machinery.” The issue of the Worker keeps the
great Hoe machine going only a few hours per
week, and to start a daily in Sydney is only a
question of getting together a staff. And, come
to think of it, that’s the hardest part of the busi-
ness. Anyone can buy machinery, but to organise
a good staff is a contract for a genius.


KUGELMANNo
©
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty'
Aid/'
rREC
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUOELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEV
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
You can be
like this.
DON’T STAY THIN.
THERE is no reason why every man or woman should not acquire or
regain a Perfect Figure. If you want to add flesh, be made
plump and rosy, gain weight, strength and beauty, send for Free
Booklet and a Free Trial Treatment of the “ Miracula’ 1
Nerve Food and Flesh Developer. This newly-discovered
Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing Agent and Flesh Builder.
It will soon put your nerves right, tone up your digestive organs ; and the
alteration in you will astonish yourself and friends. Attenuation, be it in
man or woman, is due to a lack of flesh where flesh ought to be, and the
prominence of bone where no bone should be visible. Would you like to
have perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all scraggi-
ness ? You can easily obtain this blessing. There is no time ,o
lose. Every day you delay means possibly further decrease in
weight, so write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps, to pay
postage on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
If You are
like this.
London Specialities Agency, Dept, a, 44 Castiereagh st., Sydney
50 POST CARDS FOR 9£d.
Each card different. Views, Actresses, Children and others. —•
Post Free to any Is.
part of Australia,
OJd.
Biggest value ever offered to the
beginning of the Post Card craze.
Public since the
Agents Wanted.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO., Post Card Publishers and Importers, 192-194 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
London Spectator made a good point in discuss-
ing the failure of the British Territorial Army
scheme. It remarked that it was a humiliating
thing for the State to have to go cto svn on its knees
to the private employer and beg him to allow his
employee to carry a gun in defence of his country
and his employer’s shop. The shopkeeper reckons
that patriotism, as well as charity, 'begins at
home, and Brown, the draper, isn't going to
sacrifice his employee’s time and his own trade if
.Tones, the outfitter in the next street, isn’t going
to do it. Jones, likewise, is hanging back to see
whether his rival Smith will allow his men off.
If Smith —who is the biggest man—decides he
can’t allow his assistants the necessary few days,
the thing is done so far as that particular group
of employers is concerned. If it is made incum-
bent on all able-bodied men to train, the problem
is solved at once by everyone being placed on an
equal‘footing; it is then simply a matter of
arranging things so that there may be no serious
dislocation of trade—as, for instance, the simul-
taneous absence of two men from the same de-
partment. Meanwhile Brown can’t afford to be
patriotic for fear of Jones, and Jones dare not
for fear of Smith. And even if Brown and Jones
and Smith give their consent their employees are
afraid to avail themselves of it. After the first
camp, Smith, the mammoth outfitter, may briefly
remark that he didn’t know, when he gave his
consent, that the thing would be such a dashed
nuisance, and that he is full up of it. Then there
will be a cold time ahead for the men who have
already joined the Territorials, and are fixed there
for a term of years, with the devastating wrath of
Smith hanging over them ail the while.
Daily-paper message from Wellington
(N.S.W.) :
An old couple in this district were in receipt of an old-
age pension. The husband is 80 years of age, and the
wife 72, and by the death of a brother the latter became
part-owner with a sister of a property worth about £3BO.
As soon as the Board learned of the legacy the old people’s
pensions were suspended.
And by-and-bye Treasurer Waddell will make a
halo out of the few' shillings thus snatched out of
the mouths of those two poor old people, and will
ask N.S.W. to bow down and worship him for
securing another surplus for the State. And in
return for the adoration Waddell will probably
make next year’s income-tax exemption £l2OO
instead of the present £lOOO.
Melbourne Herald spoke quite respect-
fully, the other day, about Dudley :
Of late, the Railway Department has obtained a good
deal of steel from Lord Dudley’s famous works in
Worcestershire and Staffordshire, England. The heavy
girders used for the underframing of the vestibule cor-
ridor-express stock are all branded “Earl of Dudley
Steel.”
The fact that Dudley is one of the great land
monopolists and huge capitalists who infest
England, and cause the starvation of its multi-
tudes, is a thing that should rather be kept dark.
When the average wealth of a country is £3OO per
head, and one man has £3,000,000, it is necessary
for 10,000 people to have nothing to restore
the balance, and that is where the Dudley variety
of person comes in. And Victoria (where Swin-
burne and Bent have lately developed the import-
ing disease in a terrible form) should be darned
well ashamed to know that its railway girders are
branded “Earl of Dudley.” It would be a
thousand times more creditable if the brand was
“ Smith, Australia.’’
Canada finds that it has overdone things
in its “loyal” but disorganised craving to give
preference to Britain. The original idea was
simply that, as regards such goods as it was
always in the habit of importing, it proposed to
buy from Britain rather than from foreigners, but
it never intended to sacrifice its own industries
for the benefit of Britain or anybody else. Now
it finds that imports of woollen goods have trebled
and the number of employees in the Canadian
woollen factories has diminished by 2200. So
Canada doesn’t think so much of preference as it
did.
WEALTH IN WHEAT
WITH
m
Ua
THE “ SUNSHINE ” HARVESTER.
Cheapen Cultivation
BY USING
THE “SUN”* TWIN CULTIVATOR.
Write to any of the undermentioned addresses for: —
New Illustrated Catalogue “M 10,” Farm Implements
(Posted Gratis).
Show
Rooms
42 tNGINE STREET, SYDNEY.
102 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE.
56 NTH. TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
AGENCIES
Sandover & Co., Perth, W.A.
Mott & Barlow, Toowoomba, Q.
H. V. McKAY,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER
WORKS.
Head Office and Works : SUNSHINE.
Amusements.
QRAND VOCAL RECITAL.
Y.M.C.A. HALL, BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,
at 8 o’clock, by
MISS ANNIE PERRY,
introducing'
THE NEW AUSTRALIAN CONTRALTO,
MISS KATHLEEN DORAHY.
Assisting Artists:
MISS FOITLIS (Solo Piano).
MR. E. .T. FULTON (Solo Tenore),
MR. BRYCE CARTER (Solo Violoncello).
PLAN AT PALING’S. 35., 2s.
J. EDWARD SYKES.
Direction
J. C. Williamson.
rpHE WELCOME
HOME-COMING OF
THE AUSTRALIAN CONTRALTO,
ADA CROSSLEY,
AT THE ZENITH OF HER WORLD-WIDE FAME.
The Australasian Tour will be inaugurated with FIVE
CONCERTS at the SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
The Dates are —
OCTOBER 1,3, 6,8, and 10.
The following Distinguished Artists will assist
MME. CROSSLEY—
MR. JOHN HARRISON,
Mr. Hamilton Earle, Mr. Leon Sametini,
and MR. PERCY GRAINGER.
Box Plan opens at Paling’s next Monday (Sept. 28).
PRICES OF ADMISSION : RESERVED SEATS, 10/6 ;
UNRESERVED SEATS, 5/- and 2/6.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. O. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 26,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
(Including MISS CARRIE MOORE, MR. ANDREW
HIGGINSON, VICTOR GOURIET, REGINALD
ROBERTS, W. S. PERCY, CLAUDE BANTOCK,
D. B. O’CONNOR, IVY SCOTT, FLORENCE YOUNG
and others), present, for the First Time in Sydney,
THE MEBRY WIDOW.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL
BRUNE, supported by a
SPECIALLY SELECTED COMPANY
—in
PETER PAN.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
tupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Season.
ANOTHER BRILLIANT SUCCESS.
rHE BELLE OE MAYEAIR.
dusic by LESLIE STUART, composer of “Fborodora.”
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as Usual.
THE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
A LACE THE AT R E, S Y D N E Y.
Direction of Edwin Geach.
FRANK THORNTON’S
GOOD-BYE FOR EVER TO SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS of THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 26,
CHAELIiTS AITN T.
Prices 55., 35., 2s. and Is. Plans at Nicholson’s.
U E E N ’ S
HALL, SYDNEY.
9 . Under the direction of Charles
* TO-NIGHT at 8. MacMahon & Edward Carroll.
THE BURNS-LANG FIGHT and
OR THE TERM of His NATURAL LIFE
(Now in the 7th WEEK of its marvellous run.)
V CONJUNCTION WITH A NEW SERIES OF
ANIMATED PICTURES.
Prices —25., Is., and 6d. Plan at Elvy s.
-J-ATe GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
BEAL ICE SKATING.
GRAND FANCY COSTUME ICE
CARNIVAL,
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24.
SEASON CLOSES NEXT WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 30.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
T IVOLI T HEATRE, SYDNEY.
I Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mit, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
BURT SHEPARD, Raconteur, Pianist and Entertainer.
THE BARNARD FAMILY, introducing a New and
Delightful Specialty, DOLLS ALIVE.
12 ABDULLAH’S MOORISH ARABS. 12
THE MEVMOTTS, Comedy Sketch Artists.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
HARRY ROCHFORT and HARRY HART.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES —35., 2s. 6d., Is. 6d., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MILES STAVORDALE QUINTET, Musical Entertainers.
MIGNONETTE KOKIN, Comedienne Dancer.
OSBORN AND BROOKS, Musical Comedy Artists.
GALETTI’S PERFORMING DOGS & BABOONS.
TOD LOWAN, Quaint Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. it W PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
h
yOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
SEPTEMBER 26,
MARK HAMBOURG
With Orchestra.
EXHIBITION HALL, BRISBANE
MARK HAMBOURG
IS COMING.
MELBOURNE.
JHEATRE ROYAL,
A GREAT SUCCESS.
THE NATIONAL OPERA CO. in
Sir Julius Benedict’s Famous Work,
THE LILY OF KILLAENEY.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
p r i ce s _3/., 2/., 1/- Plan at Cole’s Book Arcade.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 24, FRIDAY, SEPT. 25,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE TRUTH.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 26,
MISS MARGARET ANGLIN in Shakspeare’s Immortal
Comedy,
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
FRIDAY, SEPT.
RING’S
THURSDAY, SEPT. 24,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 26,
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
THE GAYEST OF THE GAY.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ONLY EIGHT MORE NIGHTS OF
MR, J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
TH E RE D MIL L,
DUTCH MUSICAL PLAY.
Plan at Allan’s.
PLEASURE PARK
COURT, MELBOURNE).
AVALON COLLARD’S New Comkpy Concert Coy.
HAGENBECK’S PERFORMING WILD ANIMALS.
ILKET and JENNY, Equilibrists and Iron Jdw Experts.'
CODE’S GRAND CONCERT MILITARY BAND.
GENERAL ADMISSION ONE SHILLING,
Includes Chute Trip and other Concessions.
A Remarkable SHILLING’S WORTH. ’Phone 1113 City.
g IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PACKED HOUSES NIGHTLY GREET
MISS FLORENCE BAINES,
the Girl who Set London Laughing,
—in—
MRS. LEE’S LODGERS.
A DELIGHTFUL
Prices as usual.
WIRTH’S
(PRINCES
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
A,
WIRTH’S OLYMP
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES “fbi
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week. i
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST'S
’ PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
SKATING ON ICE, MORNING, AFTEROON,
and EVENINGS.
A GRAND FANCY DRESS CARNIVAL
and FINAL DISPLAY OF THE SEASON
will be held at S p.m.
NEXT WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30,
when Prizes will be given for—
Best Set of Four Edge Skating (each set to comprise two
ladies and two gentlemen).
Best Team of Not More than Four-in-Hand and Drivel-.
Most Original and Effective Character.
Best Sustained Character.
Best Historical Character.
Best Back Edge Skater, lady.
Best Back Edge Skater, gentleman.
Grand March, Exhibition of Waltzing, Exhibition
of Fancy Skating.
Rink closes for season on Saturday, 3rd October, and
will re-open for next season on Ist MAY, 1909.
Missing: Friends.
TAMES BESSENT, sometimes known as GEORGE
” WEST or MILLER, pork butcher, late of Gosport.
Information required as to whether he was alive or dead
in October, 1906. Reward-THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
& AGENCY CO., LTD., 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TIWO BOYS, named ROY and NORMAN
. RICHARDS, left their home, Port Augusta,
Adelaide, in September last, aged respectively
nineteen and nine. Probably now under the
name of Bennett. Twenty pounds reward paid
to first person giving information leading to their
recovery.
C. B. RICHARDS,
Port Augusts.
STOTEN WILLMOTT (Jim), laborer or
butcher, aged about 40, wrote from Wee
Wee Reefs, Victoria, in 1888, came home to
Avoca 1889. Any information to E. E. G.
JOLLEY, Solicitor, Maryborough, Victoria.
Llewelyn Humphreys is earnestly
requested to communicate with his brother
Cyril, Malcolm Street, Millowood, Adelaide,
South Australia,
“ THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to scerieny
and places of interest to suit his client*. Also First-Class
Touring Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
A BEAUTIFUL FACE
and a Lovely Complexion can be secured
by using the BEAUTY CUP or Rubber
Complexion Bulb. It prevents and re-
motes Wrinkles, Pimples, Blackheads and
other blemishes, and make* the skin soft,
smooth, clear and healthful. Produces
immediate benefit by promoting circula-
tion. The best and pleasantest form of r
Self-massaire. Also serviceable for developing the bust and
filling hollow places. Price, H ALF-A-CROWN, securely
packed and delivered free at any address. Full* printed
directions. Wiih each Beauty Cup ordered within one month
from the date of this naper will be GIVEN FREE a two-
•unce Tube of ALMOND BLOSSOM BEAUTY CREAM
, value 2s. 6d.), the most exquisite emollient anil skin food;
thejnoom of youth and the velvety softness of the
complexion. '/You should order at once and mention this
paper. Obtainable only from THE UNION COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ĥ
r"'"
Dr. Ida Carlson’s
Remedies.
Established 16 Years.
Health for Women.
Why Suffer? Send 2d.
Stamp for this. Great
Specialist’s Book on Home
Treatment.
BRITISH DRUG CO.
4th Floor E.S. & A. Bank,
Cor. George & King Sts.,
SYDNEY.


A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, nickel
back, richly em-
bossed, long- bristles,
5/6.
Extra Quality
Bristles, 8/6.
FREE CARRIAGE TO THE COUNTRY
A Saving to You.
Our system of FREE CARRIAGE on all goods
to any part of Australasia means a big saving
No Matter Where You Live
Our up-to-date MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT
will serve you promptly and satisfactorily.
FREE CATALOGUE.
If you are interested in Watches, Clocks, Jew-
ellery, Silverplate, Leather, or Optical Goods,
write for a copy to-day.
It’s Yours for tHe Asking.
The exact illustrations takes away all uncer-
tainty from mail buying.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH,
Xylonite Back,
extra quality
Bristles,
5/6.
Other Styles,
7/6, 8/6, and 9/6.
asjja.hnmiillji
dessert
TABLE ..
JOSEPH RODGERS
O V 8/6, 9/6; 10/6 i-doz.
B/9, 9/6, 10/6, 11/6 i-doz.
TABLE CUTLERY, ROUND OR SQUARE XYLONITE
***
TABLE 4/9, 6/6, 7/6, 9/3 £-doz. 20/ fdoz.
HANDLES.
HARRISON BROS.
DESSERT
table y.y
and HOWSON
6/6, 8/6, 9/6 J-doz.
i/6, 9/6, 10/6’ A-doz:.
MEAT CARVERS to Match, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6. Steels to match, 2/6 each.
„-?7 U k °. tler ?’ wl l ich is of the flnes t Sheffield Steel,
will be found perfect in make, finish, and durability.
rm t> /• SAUNDEKS.
merited «™
height s§in ' first ' class timekeeper
Other styles, ' 10/6;'. 12/6,. 15./, 17/6.
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR-CASE, Seal leather,
green, black, or brown, pure
silver mounts,
„ 15A
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6.
A.
CUTLERY SET,
Forks, finest Sheffield
SAUNDERS.
comprising J-dozen Knives
steel, xylonite handles.
DESSERT, 15/. TABLE, 20/-
and
Nickel SHAVING STAND,
telescopic, bevelled mirror,
oak base,
_ 21/.
Other styles, ,10/6, 12/6, 15/,
17/6.
,\ji 12 1%
/i»\ Ja\
-9 3:
\8 4-'
6 5,
_ , A. SAUNDERS.
Bedroom ALARM CLOCK, nickel or
hei ght 5 i n"' 8 S 6 ’ s Pl en< "licl timekeeper,
* ’ , 10/6.
Other styles, 4/6, 6/6, 8/6, 12/6.
»““K, 6 Gl 2 r%^ s= " w - ”« i >.•»<*«.
STwJ if&Wfs»«“ 2/c - s '-
SOCKET KNIFE, 4
blades, finest Sheffield
steel, ivory handle,
5/0-
Other styles, 1/6, 2/,
2/6, 3/6.
A. SAIESTDERS.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES, enamelled
frame, Morocco leather covered.
20/.
Other styles, 10/6, 15/, 17/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SIGHT COMPASS, jewelled bar, patent,
needle grip, oxidised brass ease,
„ 21/.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/.
m
m
m
i
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Eight-day Marblette CLOCK, strikes hours and halves
loud gong, first-class timekeeper, fancy dial lflin’
high, ’
2 ."5/.
Other styles, 20/, 27/6,, 30/, 35/, 40/, 42/6, 45/.
A. >?AUJNJL>j&K».
CUTLERY SET, Meat Carvers, J-dozen Table and Des-
sert Knives, finest Sheffield steel, xylonite handles in
ease, 45/.
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Miner’s MAGNIFYING GLASS,
triple lense, nickel mounted, 5/0. *
Double, 2/; stronger, 3/6.
A. SAUNDE3..
PEGGY BAGS, Morocco leather well
sewn throughout, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6,
In crush Morocco, 25/.
All the Latest Styles in Seal, Crocodile
and Beaver, from 12/6 to 27/6. ’
SCISSOR SET,
Sheffield steel, ii
Other
A. SAUNDERS.
comprising 3 pairs of Scissors, finest
i leather case, 11/6.
styles, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6
e
V
V
A. SAUNDERS.
SCISSORS, fine Sheffield
steel, sin 1/3, sJin 1/6,
Cm 1/9, 6Jin 2/3, 7in 2/9.
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, polished nickel mounts, cut-glass bottle
crystal glass base. 17/G- ’
Other styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 16/, 17/6, 20/.
M I-' \ t {' \ r- , - SAUNDERS.
AJ UAKVERS, xylonite handles, Carving Knife, Fork, and Steel, silver ferrules,
ntnc o+ i hand-forged Sheffield steel, in velvet- lined case, 15/.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 25/, 30/, 32/6. 5-piece Sets, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
SMOKER’S SET, highly polished nickel Tobacco Jar,
Match-holder, Pipe Rack, and glass Ash Tray (pipes
not included!. 15/6-
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6, 20/, 22/6, 20/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician-
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


1
1
.
/
I
* I
/JBSBBS* \
\
/
/
r*r
/
/
il
5
~ .
1 ’
I *3s;
1
\ ’ <
B
1
■
ji
-
• .
:%' «;>* -
IP
MS
* v.., r s ; 4 . -■-
' ♦
wm
mm
■
tew A
SUPERB
WOMANHOOD.
Has it ever occurred to you that HEALTH is just as infectious as DISEASE?
And have you not often felt “lots better” after a half=hour’s chat with some
happy, laughing friend ?
What would good health mean to you?
To be always ready to meet the daily round of duties in hearty fashion—■
to be able and glad, at close of day, to meet, with a glad smile and a cheery
ring in the voice, your brother or husband returning from business.
To feel the blood rushing through your veins with the superb glow of health,
and to wake up each morning fresh and radiant for the day. Life then is a
sheer joy, your good health and spirits radiate and infect all you meet, and the
little daily worries, met with a laughing face, vanish instantly.
Cheerfulness is born of good health, and good health is attainable to most of
us by using an occasional tonic.
Everyone, at some time, knows and experiences the “ run-down ” feeling
after a period of overwork, strain or anxiety.
And the vagaries of the Australian climate necessitate the use of that reliable
remedy,
mO'lomc
These Pills are a combination of Tonic and Laxative Principles, affording a
Remedy Laxative in action yet with a General Tonic effect. They are purely
vegetable and contain no mineral salts of any description.
Laxo=Tonic Pills are a Blood Purifier and Health Compeller. You can take them
with every confidence, and they will be found as valuable for the youngest child
as for the fu!l=grown adult. They are sold everywhere at and Is. 6d.
A FREE TRIP.
We are offering an 18,000=Mlle Free Trip, First Saloon, to Manila, China, Japan, Singapore,
Colombo, return via West Australia, for the Best Limerick sent in for our No. 4 Competition.
There are also 25 Additional Cash Prizes. Send us in a Limerick accompanied by a Wrapper
from around a bottle of Laxo=Tonlc Pills. This Competition closes October 20, 1908.
' SPECIMEN LIMERICKS.
It is good to be happy and bright.
And to know that, your health is all right;
Laxo-Tonic Pills swallow
And good health will follow,
As surely as day follows night.
The roses in the garden bloom with grace,
And with their perfume sweeten every place |
But Laxo-Tonic Pills
Cure all digestive ills,
'And will make the roses bloom in any face.
LAXO-TONIC PILL COMPANY, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The use of the camera in controversy is
spreading, but the practice is going to land some
of its votaries in a mess one day. After the U.S,
fleet had left Auckland a parson named Palmer
rose and made a few mild remarks about some in-
crease in the drinking; and Auckland simply
emptied itself upon him, and crushed him with
abuse and epithets. The row attracted the
attention of big brother Isitt, who, whatever his
faults may be, is a terrific fighter. He bestrode
the form of the prostrate Palmer, and dealt out
brimstone and boiled lightning. He declared he
had seen drunken men reeling about everywhere,
and had counted eight fights in 20 minutes on the
racecourse. He didn’t stop to explain what he
was doing at the course, but swept on to declare
that sailors were lying round dead drunk by
the half-dozen, and so numerous were the half-
dozens that a van had to be chartered to
remove them. Then he doubled Auckland right
up by declaring that he had snapshots taken to
prove the truth of his tale, and that, from the
negatives, he was having lantern slides made, and
his great collection of drunk pictures would be
projected upon a screen from the house of the
Rev. Palmer. And Auckland, cowed, sneaked
back into its shell, and lias not been heard from
since. Yet it is quite possible to get photographs
of the Rev. Isitt drinking, or browning himself
on the beach clothed in not much ; a good photo-
grapher has only to take a series of snapshots of
the Rev. Isitt walking down the street, and the
rest is easy. Fakeographv is a high art. and
Auckland should ask the Rev. Isitt to sign an
affidavit that his pictures are genuine. If anyone
has any doubts on this subject let him take his
plain, unvarnished best girl to a photographer,
and then compare what the photographer hands
him with what he took there.
“ H.T.’s ” fable
Once upon a time a Godly Man took an Engineer for a
ride in his motor car. How an Engineer ever became the
friend of a Godly Man, and how a Godly Man came to own
a motor car I know not.
Now when the motor car was fifty miles from anywhere
it stopped.
“ I think the carburetter must be dirty,” said the Godly
Man.
“ I cannot give judgment,” said the Engineer.
The Godly Man cleaned the carburetter, likewise the
sparking plug ; also, he turned the hurdy-gurdy handle in
front with violence.
“ I cannot find anything the matter,” he said at length,
“ but the blessed thing will not go.”
“I’ve always found with marine engines,” said the
Engineer, “ that a good swear will make them go.”
“ I would not do such a thing,” replied the Godly Man.
“ I cannot cuss.”
“ As you will,” said the Engineer.
The Godly Man tested the accumulators, and kicked the
sparkor in the stummick ; still the car moved not.
“ Perhaps I’d better examine the valves,” he said.
“May lie,” said the Engineer, “but if I were you I’d
curse some.”
The Godly Man examined the valves. He tested the
walking beam, and he cleaned the petrol pipe.
“ I’ve done everything,” he said.
“Except blaspheme,” said the Engineer.
The Godly Man took, to pieces the timing gear.
“ Perhaps the engine was not getting enough oil. I
will give. it some fresh oil.”
“ Try a few imprecations,” implored the Engineer,
getting' tired.
The Godly Man gave the car fresh oil, and then circu-
lated the handle in front.
“ Just a small oath, then,” said the Godly Man, wiping
the sweat from his brow with his oily r hands.
“ !” shouted the Engineer. . ~
“ A bit louder,” said the Godly Man, turning the handle
savagely. , . ,
“ !!! ” said the Engineer, “ and ! 1 •
the ! ! ! thing, and may the -—!
! thing be eternally - ! ! ”
The car uttered a deep sigh, as of gratification, ana
started to work. ~
“ It must have been the oil,” said the Godly Man as
thev calamitated homewards.
“May be,” said the Engineer, “ and, then again, may
be not.”
Auditor-General Vernon, of N. S. Males,
mentions that some preliminary inquiry has been
made lately regarding the establishment of a
Public Trust Office in the Ma State ; and—
This initial action will probably be followed in the near
future by a measure being submitted to Parliament
having for its object the creation of a Public Trust Office.
The Auditor-General’s ideaisto reproduce as nearly
as possible the Maoriland office, which not only
manages the trust funds held by the State, but
acts as trustee, etc., for any private person or
estate. Nowadays, in fact, the Maoriland office
goes further, and, if it is allowed to make its own
choice of investments, guarantees both interest
and principal. And while it is about it the
N.S.W. Government might turn the Sinking
Fund, which presumably the Trust Office will
manage, into a real sinking fund. It isn t that at
present, because there are no accumulations of
interest—as amounts are received debt is paid off,
and the securities are wiped out, instead of being
kept alive, and the interest on them collected,
and more securities purchased with the proceeds.
“Sr.,” from Melbourne :
Developments of some moment have happened way
down by Yarra bank amongst the “ leaders of thought >
who declaim on Sundays in Morgue Park. About th e
most important item of news is that re the bust-up be-
tween Stephen and Mary. Mary has now taken one Gimlet
as her preaching partner, and together they, sing the okl
hymns, and together they get hit with bits of disused
cow thrown by the assembled youth. Stephen, the
deposed, runs a service on his own, and is
much troubled by a devil named Smith, who
spends his Sunday afternoons interrupting Stephen
and asking questions that he can’t answer. Stephen says
Smith is Lost. The latest “leader of thought ” is a respect-
able, stout old washerwoman who takes religion very
seriously. She points out the unsaved with the front
door ke'v and talks very loudly to them. That is to say.
she does this when she can get an audience, but most
times she goes for. an hour and a half and not a solitary
soul listens to her. She is a monument of perseverance
and futility. The peanut man has been converted by
Fleming, and has learnt to interject in broken English
“ Deaf ter de tyrants,” The Tom Mann people also run a
rostrum in Morgue Park, and the audience is made up of
a few red ties attached to men who listen tiredly while
urged to rise up and throw aside their chains. Tommy
Trentham, who was once pictured in The Bulletin,
has retired from “ speakin’.” They say he finally married
a Mrs. Johnson, but her name may be Jenkins or Jobson
for all I know.
The Morgue Park crowd is an institution. Sunday after
Sunday, rain or sun, winter and summer, the same old
group goes along to hear the same old harangues. Most
of them are aged bachelors. Also, most of them have
kinks, and are more or less cranks. The fun of Gimlet
and Mary and of Stephen and Smith is, however, a good
show. The humor is unforced, and they supply two fine
knockabout acts.


Hands, Arms and Ear in Serious
Condition with Eczema—Cared for
by Doctors, Dispensary and Nurse
but Got Only Temporary Relief —
Could Scratch Herself to Pieces.
SOON COMPLETELY CURED
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
about f my l being
it caufed^m/hfl Chil n d my blood * and
it caused my hands and arms to break
I had Jwolff 0 tryad ki nd s°f things and
» 3 different doctors and also at-
Then T hod i >enSary for three months.
j- aen 1 h d . a nurs © come to the house
morni ng for seven weeks. They
it would ee n r n ease rne for the time but
it would all come again and bv niyhf T
could scratch myself to pieces Mv
own g ld h a seen an hour every niS
putting bandages on my arms and hands
Almost everyone in High St could tell
you what a sufferer I was and the doe
tors told me that I should never b e able
to do my washing again. &ble
tee rru m y ea r became awful
on KiT^St 1 h ad ° f Mrs %'Cutler’s child,
Qee bei ng cured by Cuticura
fs I wa e f F k f indly went and saw he?,*
even T£ C d PnSOnerand could n °t
o the door or window. Mrs
Cutler told her if I tried Cuticura she
felt sure it would do me good I sent
nght away for Cuticura Soap, Cuticura
ftoKavth. isR i
23
Qeo ■ a y e * e P* on using Cuticura
Sg h£? h in y t sha ‘ l A g friend U of
“ith so?« ! t J,I I i y , " , ' ar y All covered
infW u' I 1 - told her about my cure
She bouiht h Cnr Gen th e sfcate 1 was in!
ment and W°e^m ra Soap and Oint-
p-f 5 fP d per child is now quite differ-
ent, thanks to Cuticura. Mrs F
ISn’rt IS H^ h Stoneho use M D„ 0 f;
England, Dec. 1,1907 and Jan. 12,loos.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti
colniT^ 11 Treatm entofSkin Diseases.
CWSlia, Treatment for
consists of CuticuraSnaS’ l is ren > an<l Adults
Cuticura Ointment to Wm? tic 9 eanse the Skin,
fills (Chocolate coatedin k o?’ « a o n A Cutip,lra
the Blood. A Slnsrle Spt’nftir. V rv s to Purify
out the world. Denote •°r t ™,£. ure oT Sol( l through-
Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la P-dx° d A™tt 27 V Cili i£ terilollse
& Co., Sydney India ’ DA u ,s tl .al la. R. Towns
Hong Kong IDrua Po • r' Calcutta; China
Russia, Ferreim Moscow ? So Ltd - Tokio
Cape Town, etc.; U s i bo f>nti ‘^ Lennon -
Corp., Sole Props., Boston'* Potter Drug & chem -
MIGNON
Pianoforte
is an instrument we
cordially recommend.
The musical quality of
the Mignon has made it
one of the foremost piano-
fortes in Australia. Every
detail bears the impress
of science and skill. A
marvellous instrument at
a modest price.
Carries a ten years’
guarantee.
EASY EXTENDED
PAYMENTS IF DESIRED.
SOLE AGENTS:
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
ħ
We Value Our
Reputation
eA@)
which has been built up by supplying' One
Quality only. Granville H. Sharp, F.C.S.L.,
an eminent British Scientist, says
“No. 4711 Eau de Cologne
is of the best quality and absolutely pure.” We
say the same about our Soaps, Perfumery and
Toilet Requisites. No. 4711 stands for Quality.
Bid food or bad drink means a bad Liver. LAXATINE
is the great Liver correeter. Obtainable everywhere.
Goulds Spray Pumps
known and used in every country '
where spraying is practiced. We are
the largest and foremost manufac-
turers of Spray Pumps in the world,
building 24 different styles of pumps
for this purpose. We issue a Spray
Catalogue annually containing our
complete line, also various formulas
for preparing Spray mixtures. We
shall be gjad to forward this book
upon application
THE GOULDS MFC. CO.
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
1 AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES
i
f GoUL
l;F C.C<
S»’#s«is I
Fig. 1068
Fig. 1323
The SPRING
is approaching, and with it comes the SEASON
at
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
the foremost and most fashionable tourist resort in australTa
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS
y °" d 0 ■ a ‘" S ’ d ° " And - t tr»7,Ke at P,a " “ y ““ r
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
TULKI'rIONKS
j 4349 Central.
t 29 Katooinba.
Fall Details at CITY OFFICE
38 Castlereagrh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
h
This
Comfortable
and Stylish
LADY’S
SHOE
at
One
Guinea.
Have you got “Shoe-
lig-ht,” our illus-
trated booklet, des-
cribing', with prices,
our very finest
Footwear ?' You
should get a copy—
we’ll post it free on
receipt of name and
address.
You could tell at a
dance that this Shoe
combines style, com-
fort and good wear,
ft is an Enamel Kid
Derby Oxford, with a
Welted Sole, and is
certain to prove one
of the most popular
Walking Shoes for
the coming outdoor
season.
Because it is strongly
built, and at the
same time stylish in
appearance, we guar-
antee it, and price it
at One Guinea.
Add 9d. for postage
if ordering in Vic-
toria, or Is. if from
any other State.
Boot Stores, 109Swanston St., Melb.
1 & 3 Errol St., Jf. Melb. ;3Q3 ohapel St., Prahran
31b.;
ranj
PERMANENTLY CURED!)
A/T ANY people have said, “If a cure can be found I
"• for Obesity, and one that will effectually l
reduce fat without harm to the patient, the dis-1
coverers would make a fort- 1
une ’’ We havefourd the rem-
edy. Our main idea is just
now, however, to have you
use the treatment so that you
may help to start our endless
chain of patients.
“FATCURE” re-
moves excess fat and
cures Obesity and the
" cure is permanent. It
-takes off from five
pounds a week to over
two stone a month.
Many cases lose a pound
ĥ
b a da .- v> . Jt is not a patent medicine. It is
I a scientific treatment by the use of vegetable
j extracts in tablet form. ?
Mrs 0. J. Murphy, of Glenmore Road, Pad-
dim ton, writes: ‘‘Your remedy reduced my
we g lit 37 lbs. and I now feel splendid.”
Send a twopenny stamp for free sample and
our booklet, which we send free under sealed
cover. Write or call lor sample to-day.
Thousands endorse “ Fatcure.” Let us send you
their letters commending it.
THE WATWORTH CO. Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street. Take lift.
[l6
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
YOUR EYES!
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
S#a?£/vVj
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“ URICA.”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ly ness and kindred ailments. \ .
ħ
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a complete
battery, which have an affinity for drawing
the uric acids to that part of the finger
that the ring is worn on, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
treeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 55.; Gold*
Filled, 55., 7s. 6d. and 10s. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required., or send for measurement card.
DUNKLING,
The Jeweller,
315=317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
FROOTOIOS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
! When Mosquitoes annoy you
i
i remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Vlade by F C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
The Departure of Capital.
Kola ” writes :
we®e a wrono M wh;7 I v haVe ? fte " bad the "°tion that you
was leavfnl t o u/ 6 "!?' 1 fco believe that capital
Ward and Mr Jambs of s at Mr ‘ Whiskers
their papers thatch
asleep, or drinking f t n«i u ' Purely >ou must be
SaEIISSS
and in seien years, ft goes on atThi* 1 °* 00 ’ 000 ’
feS?* Ule cou,| try—-niy’hand
Profit for half-year ending- Feb., 1906 .. .. £lO4 878
” ” ” >• .. t 907 .. 237,904
” ” ” ” » 1908 .. 103,188
For IS months’ work only. Surely no further teltimonv
is needed as regards the mischievous effect of our Social'
cartlotd, as it were ThiS i 8 “ CaSe ° f ° apital leavi by the'
s-Ss Se ■syrvsr
I was asleep. At any rate, it is time something was done
whole'fleet
iTM w! ft 0 ” : 7' 16 Maoriland elections are due
I ®, ber > and Joseph Ward careers around
he Islands flinging surpluses right and left
Seemingly a big surplus and a bigger debt are in
peon™ S B!i l t f I, 0 " the , deBiderata of Maoriland’s
unto tlio d th f. ? 4 e r ? ple ? row uneasy and say one
unto the other. Where is the army which shall
Anrf°rL theSe treasnres when the enemy comes?”
pvrpi oB ™ points to 20,000—who are not 20,000
visited TS er h ~ badl - y - eq " lpp ed volunteers. I
visited a drill-shed recently where 150 men—
three corps-were alleged to be drilling and
ound there but 50 men. The sergeant-majorsof
the corps fixed it up as usual. It wouldn’t do for
a company to lose its capitation. In the
country districts this faking of rolls is
agrant, especially with mounted corps. And the
l)efence Counc,l-five men, each in receipt of
£5OO per annum and a house allowance—is doing
nothing ; neither does it threaten to do anything!
lhe four principal harbors are protected by 20-
year-old 6in. and Bin., breech-loading guns r inged
tance 8000 ;[ dS i’ b , ut only effective af half that dis-
tance, and obsolete Tin. muzzle-loaders. But
• nd g r>° n A® beaches at Auckland, Wellington
e^' n i ar . e comp aratively new 6in. guns
capable of discharging four 1001 b. shells per
mmute, and effective at 10,000yds. These weapons
have been lying neglected for four years, and as
T7rd the fL w llO su^estion of mounting them
Under the Ward regime, instructors have been
imported wholesale, including two cavalry cap-
c jon a r ° yal ar * ,llery major—the latter gens
year and, in the absence of any
lommy Atkins to keep them busy, these gentle!
men must curse the leaden hoofs of Time Some-
one had the temerity recently to mention compul-
sory military training to Ward, who replied with
so much verbal sludge that the individual was
sorry he spoke. But Joseph’s wrong. The
people are in favor of compulsory training just as
much as they are in favor of anythinglJxcept
perhaps, free beer for the million. What they
want is someone to rise up with a big roar and
nr°c^ b L ea H l hem as . SEDDON occasionally did (big
Dick had the cunning of the elephant, but Ward !
is simply a hnancier-cMwi-borrower, and avid for
surpluses). The idea is not new. Ward’s pet
department, the Posts and Telegraphs, compels all
its empioyees to serve three years in the volun- I
teers, and the Wellington Post and Telegraph
Rifles is the crack corps of the capital. Thhreis
h°,!r k f ng of As roll. The Evening Post battles
tlWu,n otnpUS n ry Preparation for bloodshed,
and W A r D generally tries to agree with the Post.
1 hat is Maorilandls chief hope. Anyhow, it is up
to Ward to drop his borrowing and his bogus sur-
pluses, and be a practical patriot for once.
♦
A sidelight on the crying demand for a stiff pro-
gressive land-tax in Victoria :
Viotormn Government Statist Drake has lately o-ot
together 011 the unpromising-looking subject
of fallowed versus unfallowed land. Drake wanted to
find out what the effect of fallowing was, especially in a
dry season like the last was in Victoria • wherefore he
he” could * reach 68 The® many ° f the princi P al growers as
ne couia reach. The answers covered 147 728 acres of
allowed and 83,367 of unfallowed land on whfch fer
bn'sheD We rh US i d ri the foniier * ave an average of to 07
bushels , the latter, 4-93 bushels. The difference
b V e°en d fo^ a the b We r Still H™° re than that if ifc hadn ’t
fieen for the Western district, where fallowing isn’t
f 7. “ much consequence-th’e averages there were
rn Dieft n 3 bushels for fallowed and unfallowed
avera S es were 5’75 and2’62 bushels;
and, when those figures are compared with the Western
district th f, Sl,lf ulness of allowing the Western
district to be a sheep-walk while hungry settlers are
Pha S > leC ° Ut ITTt<i 1 TT t< i tbe drought, becomes more conspicuous
than ever. Unfortunately, the return doesn’t show the
P™ P ° n '°“ ° f falloWed and unfallowed land "n the whole
,\ tate ’ but ’ assuming that the proportion of the whole is
the same as the proportion of the part covered by Drake’s
inquiries, then about 64 per cent is fallowed-that is to
rhai f "if one i r Cr ° P 1S got fr °m it in two years ; and when
that fact soaks in, some gloom is cast on those fine har-
vest yields that are reported for the encouragement of the
a V n°d °R the > d ’ and ha^the manufacturing
the Wnf ® econda *T . industries ! As a matter of fact,
m the m u th 2 Se fi - ne yields ou^ht t 0 be divided by two.
In the Mallee districts 61 per cent, of the land was only
asked to yield one crop in two years, and even then the
y.e!d was only 575 bushels. In the Western district
instead of 61 per cent., only 44 per cent, of the cultivated
land had been nursed during the previous vear • and the
relative lalulft the V' 93 H Ush ? ls ’ But to ffet at the real
relative value of the two districts the thin"- to do is to
compare the results from the unfallowed” land—2-6’
bushels in one case and 13-47 bushels in the other ! The
Ur " S take into aecount whether
thev Vi ' t 0 carry one in two years or not;
it tfiev did, it is obvious that the Western country which
rdos” 1 us ®’ wou *d show up as a°more "desirable
territory for closer settlement than ever; and the crime
whmh e has n tobe n fren t "'*? the ho, ' ribly uncertain Mallee,
kwk blacker baf requently nursed and thrown idle, would
lOOKDlacker than ever. Just how hopeless the Mallee
ca,n be is shown by a further little group of fio-ures indi
catmg that, on unmanured land which hadn’t been fal-
f- ee disfcrict retu rn was O'CO bushel
wretches ™flff i‘ S ’, over half - a -bushel. These poor
put ° n - and au
;ill P r { e the Senatoress looms
ahead. The N.S.W. Political Labor League is
it win nut nn to d f C Q le whioh three candidates
22'annHoo t P f ?A xt Senate election, and out of
ladies ** f ° r the Paity nomination three are


The Bulletin’s Old Soldier feels annoyed :
The morning’ paper is accustomed to treat its readers
when abuse of the Commonwealth gets
monotonous, to leaders on what it calls “ The German
Peril.” It has no real idea what the “ Peril ” really is, or
whether there is any. Some of its proprietors may have
seen Germany though the window of a railway carriage,
or from the deck of a Rhine steamer. They have a vague
idea, in a general way, that Germany has a very large
and efficient army somewhere, and is building a navy.
No one really knows much about it, because German
officials don’t talk much. Germany has a perfect right
to have a navy if it wants one. It has a considerable sea-
borne trade to protect, and for that reason alone a navy
is necessary to it. But the S. M. Herald has found an
authority who assures it that “ the war ” is to come off
in six years, no more and no less. Here’s how :
“On the basis of existing programmes, the preparation
will have been complete in about six years time, possibly
a little longer. Until then Germany will avoid rather than
court a quarrel. But then she willstrike, and strike with
all her might. True, we have heard this often enough
before in a casual sort of way. What we have now got to
do is to realise it—to hope that it will not occur, but to
act as though it is certain to occur.”
The real trouble is the growth not of the German navy,
but of German trade and manufactures, due not only to
Protection through the Customs, but to State-Socialism
of a most uncompromising kind. Before 1871 nearly all
the German railways belonged to the usual joint stock co.
There were difficulties with army transport; and when
the French indemnity began to come in, the Government
used some of it to buy a few of the poorest lines, which
it worked for all they were worth in competition with the
other lines, making small extensions as occasion offered,
and in every way serving the public convenience. The
privately-owned lines felt the competition very severely,
and began to drop into the Government’s expectant
mouth, till now, after 37 years, they are all swallowed,
and the prices—well, what they could get; par at
best, generally below par. But the German people are
large gainers by the transactions. The industrial laws, too,
are all in favor of the workman, who is even protected
against the imported “ free laborer.” Even the army is
popular, because service is really and not nominally uni-
versal, and men serve with their neighbors. It is a mean,
despicable thing to raise this cowardly scare, after War-
Secretary Haldane was allowed the run of the Berlin
General Staff office and the brains of its officers,' getting
points for his abortive Territorial Army folly. J. 801 l
has six years to get ready. Why doesn’t he stop whining,
and take to Protection and universal service, along’ with
a little more State Socialism ? That, anyhow, is how
Germany has made the progress which so disturbs the
Herald’s authority.
The Melbourne Argus has been writing a heap
of hysterical, bosh about the alleged velocity
with which the great Victorian landlords are
voluntarily cutting up their estates, and the con-
sequent absence of any need whatsoever for a
graduated land-tax to make them do the deed
that they are doing in any case. When it gets oil
this subject the Argus protests a heap too much.
The graduated land-tax won’t touch the man with
only a moderate estate, and the Argus says that
its friends, the big landlords, are rushing into that
condition so fast that they are all liable to arrive
there any moment. If the Argus is telling the.
truth these persons won’t need to pay the
graduated land-tax after all, and why should
it foam so enormously at the mouth about
a tax that its friends, by its own yarn,
won’t pay? It says the graduated land-tax
amounts to “confiscation” of the big estates,
or something like that, but it also alleges
that there will soon be no big estates worth men-
tioning to confiscate, so fast are they being cut
up ; and therefore its bogus raving over the con-
fiscation that isn’t going to happen is quite
unconvincing. The graduated land-tax is only
intended, at the worst, to make the big landlord
do what the Argcs says he is yearning to do -in
fact what he is doing—and it doesn’t seem worth
while to boil so furiously about the proposal to
make a man do what he is doing, and wants to do,
and would do in any case. The simple explana-
tion of the whole matter is that the alleged lavish
cutting up of big estates for settlement is a com-
plete lie. There is some land-dealing, but it con-
sists mostly of the sale of bits of land by one big
landlord to another, or by a big landlord to one not
much smaller. The provision of small farms for
new settlers —as apart from the provision of small
or medium or large farms, which are bought
up by existing farmers and added to the areas
that are too big already—is just about as absent
in Victoria now as it has been any time during
the last 20 years. The Argus is against the com-
pulsory cutting up of the great estates, not
because the deed is being done in any case—which
is a fool of an explanation—but because it isn’t
being done to any extent worth mentioning, and
because the Arg'us doesn’t want it done.
Day by day there are accumulating evidences of
Victoria’s—or rather Bent’s—incredible muddle
in connection with the Closer Settlement foolish-
ness. A typical case is the Overnewton estate,
which Bent’s' fair-haired female was to convert
into a paradise of farms. So far, the paradise is
rather shy, and remains in strict seclusion ; but
everything, else—including heavy outlay without
chance of return —is a public indecency. Irre-
spective of the initial expenditure on the improve-
ment, etc., of their land, some considerable sums
were extracted from the settlers, in order to pay
for water whereof the only virtue is that it is wet.
Somebody suggested that the settlers must have
water, which they admitted was a fact. So a
number of bores were sunk, and a sample of the
liquid was taken from each bore, all of which
were thereupon plugged down. Apparently the
samples were officially passed as being up to the
mark, since windmills and troughs were erected
over the bores at a cost of £1847. The settlers
have to-pay the cost in six yearly instalments, and
are furnished with a fluid that is so salt and
mineralised that it has almost to be beaten with a
hammer before it will think of being a liquid.
Horses that have drunk it have dropped dead ;
people who have thought of it have been mad-
dened with thirst—even curses and atmosphere
become tangible and material things in its vicinity.
Meanwhile, there is the bill of £lB47 —also the
violent idea that the Bent Government is the
last possibility in maniacs. But that isn’t much
of a help. Nor is it interesting information.
I DIDN'T
FORGrETT
the.
n
#;
%
7
y}
O'SNOYIQ
nmnDn •*a‘i'o\
hoVmm \”y
A.Q NVb9 ,
THE FARMER’S DRINK.
Thp Farmer and the Physician are not always close neighbors,
but a bottle of “0.T.” in the house is as good, if not better, than
a doctor next door. “0.T.” is pre-eminently the country-house
drink. Plain water (hot or cold) added to one bottle of 0.1.
will make from TWENTY to THIRTY good drinks Mixed wnh
either water, soda, lemonade, spirits, or wine, O.T. Sives a
delicious palatable beverage for all occasions. Keep a bottle in
ihe house (your storekeeper sells “0.T.”), and if guests drop * n
unexpectedly, you have a delicious drink in plentiful supply ready
for them at a minu'e s notice. If such unwelcome guests as Indi-
gestion, Influenza. Chills, Colds, call, then you have a very effective
remedy—but insist firmly on
J. DIXON & CO.’S “0.T.”
Obtainable at all Stores, Chemists, Hotels, and Confectioners
throughout Australasia; also in England, South Africa, India.
Dixon’s Kia Ora Lemon Squash is a Good Drink, too.
5
256 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
LYONS
HAS
REMOVED
to larger
premises at 256
Bourke St..where his
fine stock of Musical
Instrumnnts can be
shown to advantage.
A Welcome awaits old and
new Customers.
h
YOUR NEED
is met in these Splendid VIOLIN OUTFITS.
ALL the VIOLINS, even in the very
Cheapest Set, are HAND-MADE, and of
Superior Quality. Good Case, Bow,
Extra Set of Strings, Bridge and
Instruction Book, FREE, with every
Set.
PRICES:
Student’s Set 21/-
Seholar’s Set 42/-
Conservatorium Set 63/
University Set £5 ss.
The Ideal Set £8 Bs.
l
Send your address I
for Best Musical |
Instrument Catalogl
in Melbourne. I
lutz
©©s
THE MEZON
ACCORDION.
The name is sufficient
guarantee that you are
getting the WORLD'S
BEST.
PRICES:
Organ Mezon 35/-
Wonder Mezon 427-
Grand Organ
Mezon 63/-
Chromatic Mezon, 90/-
Musical instruments Carefully Packed and Forwarded to any address.
Prospectus of the
TOMMY BURNS TIN MINES,
/Vo Liability,
CHILLAGOE, N.Q.
To be registered as a No Liability Company under the “ Companies Acts, 1863 to 1896 A
Capital: £6500 in 520 Shares of £l2 10s. each.
Of which IGO are issued as Fully Paid to the Owners, and
360 are issued to the public at £l2 10s. on application.
In addition to the 160 Fullv Paid Shares the owners receive £3OOO cash in full payment for
Mineral Leases No. 3304, King of" the Hills, and No. 3303, Boomerang.
£lOOO is placed to the credit of the Company as Working Capital, and £5OO is provided for
brokerage and flotation expenses.
Provisional Directors: JOHN MURRAY, Esq.; WM. ATHERTON, Esq.;
BEN. BEAMAN, Esq. ; B. J. MAGEE, Esq.
Broker : J. H. BROWNLEE, Chillagoe.
Bankers: BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitor: D. C. MACDIARMID, Chillagoe.
Secretary (pro tern.): J. H. BROWNLEE, Queen Street, -Chillagoe.
The Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring and working Mineral Leases No. 3304,
King of the Hills, and No. 3303, Boomerang, containing 5 acres each. The owners-Cardwell Peters
Theodore N. Roos, and Frederick G. Roos—receive £3OOO cash and 160 Fully Paid Shares in full
payment for the properties.
A report on the Mines by Mr. George Bavington, of Irvinebank is attached herewith. Mr.
Bavington has been twenty-four years engaged it tin mining in the Walsh and linaroo District and
has the reputation of being a hard-headed pessimist m assessing the value of a tin mine, heel g
certain that his estimate of the value and possibilities of the mines, is a conservative one, the
Provisional Directors have no hesitation in offering the property to the public on the terms
ty been f oun d two years ago the owners would have asked nothing less than
£lO 000 for it, and if a report had been published that it was the best surface show ever seen y
such a severe critic as Mr. Bavington, double that amount would have been subscribed for it by the
b 1 >e< Ti] l ( j' Ven dor sthere f ore feel that investors in mining ventures in the Walsh and Tinaroo District
ms does the Kinar of the Hills lease. .. j u
There is certainly no depth proved, but the soft, kindly nature of the country, as evidenced by
many land slides, leads to the conclusion that big pockets of ore will be met with and that the
l 0 i( The result of assays of the tin oxide obtained from Mr. Bavington’s samples for metal are attached,
also the result of by the Chillagoe Company. These and the results of many private
tests show an average of 70per cent, for metal. „ ,
A trial crushing is now being packed to the Gurrumbah Battery for treatment, the proceeds
of which, less packing and crushing expenses, £2 15s. per ton, will be placed to tne Company s
CltC *The agreement with the owners provides that they shall work the mines for the benefit of the
Corn nan v until October 12th next. . , , •
The two leases will be thoroughly prospected by that date by means of trenches and prospecting
shafts, so that when the Company take the property over there will be no difficulty in deciding
upon where the main working shaft, tunnels, etc., should oe most advantageously located.
The Promoters reserve the right to issue the scrip representing the above
capital in shares of such denomination as they may think fit.
REPORT BY MR. GEORGE BAVINGTON.
IRVINEBANK, 31st August, 1908.
M DeIV went out and examined the “Tommy Burns” Tin Mines under offer to you com-
prising two five (5) acre leases, and situated about seven (7) miles from Koorboora, eleven (11) miles from Gilmore,
thirteen (13) miles from Gurrumbah, and four and a half from Lappa.
The “ King of the Hills” Lease, the first I examined, is situated on the highest point of the hills through which
the lodes run. ” There are four lodes on this lease carrying tin. . . . , , ' ,
On the Eastern side a cutting has been put in showing a chute of ore seven (7) feet long by three (3) feet wide
and six (6) feet hitfh, assaying fourteen (14) per cent, black tin. There are three and a half (3J) tons of ore stacked
her< Fiftv-four 154) feet along the lode in a North-North-Easterly direction the surface has been cleaned off another
chute (10) feet long by four (4) feet wide, assaying 9.5 per cent. Two (2) tons of ore are stacked here.
Twentv-five 1251 feet further along the country is disturbed a little and what appears to be a cross lode comes in.
A cutting iias been put in here exposing a lode four (4) feet six (6) inches wide, assaying 24.7 per cent. This cutting
also shows five (5) feet of formation that would need picking, but on the whole is of little value. Starting further
down the hill, a cutting has been put in adjoining the last-mentioned cut on the North-Eastern corner shewing tin
for eleven (11 feet along the lode and still showing in both ends. It is eight (8) feet wide at one end and five (5) feet
it the other There is a little rock to be seen herein the lode, but, breaking it out altogether, it gives a leturn of
twentv-four'(24) per cent. About eighteen (18) tons of ore are stacked here. ~ . . . ,
Thir™ three (33) feet East of this point, a lode of low-grade ore two (2) feet six (6) inches wide has been stripped
six (6) feet along the line. Thirty (30) feet West there is an outcrop of ore not worked, which assays ten (10) per
cent This has the appearance of an East and West lode, and is apparently the cross lode mentioned above. On the
Western side of the hill there are two other lodes starting from a point 110 feet West of the first workings and con-
tinuing in a V shape. The one running North-West has been stripped eighteen (18) feet along the line, showing a
wklth of one (1) foot; the other is running West and has been stripped in three places The first place shows ore
two 12) feet wide by four (4) feet six (6) inches long, the second place three (3) feet wide by six (6) feet long, and the
third three (3 feet wide by six (6) feet long. These cuts prove a length of seventy (70) feet along the line. These
lodes are not payable broken out in a face, but as there is some fair tin to ue seen in them, they may pay to pick and
face,"assaying 28 per cent. Tin can be traced fromi this cutting up the hill for twenty
/on) feet The lode is showing a solid face and has a permanent appearance. Five and a half (s|) tons of ore are
u.um. of „rh;nh has heen brought from different places on the Lease that will be well worth a
stacked here half (i) a ton of which has been brought from different places on . ,
trial A sample taken from all the ore stacked returned an average of 17.5 per cent. The ore shed from the lodes,
bein-- mixed with surface, is poorer than the ore in the faces, and this accounts for the poorer return from the ore
stacked in comparison with that taken from the solid. The lode formation is of a chloritic nature, and is looked on
favorable in this district by experienced miners. With the limited amount of work done it is impossible to say with
certafntv at present, what the actual value of the property is, but ,t is without doubt the best surface show I
have ever seen It is the experience of the local prospectors that the country rock enclosing these loads
fpomnfonlv known as Red Country) is that in which the most permanent lodes are found. This particular belt
( fT, ris nhnnt three (3) miles in length and two (2) in width, running North and South. Should the lodes continue
to a hey can be very cheaply worked’by means of a tunnel the hill being very steep on the
Faster "s de A tramway co'uld be constructed from the tunnel to a battery site on Oakev Creek, about ami e away
there is a permanent water supply. The line would run over flat country the whole way. There is plenty of
timber and firewood close at hand. The samples were taken from all over the faces described above, were
Car "rheOxh'eri ?od”fii? rangfiig from 70.2 to 70.6 per cent. If these lodes continue to a
Copy >lssay Note from Irvinebank Mining Co., Ltd.
ASSAY OFFICE, IRVINEBANK, August 31st, 1908.
Thi« is to certify that the undermentioned Samples of Tin Ore, received on the 29th August, from George
Baviugtcm, Esq., has been assayed at this Office and found to contain m under Met „ llcTi „.
No. 1 " 70.2 per cent. No. " JAMES TUNNIE/Assayer.
Copy of Letter received from The Chillagoe Co., Ltd.
CHILLAGOE, Queensland, 2nd September, 1908.
H to g the Sample of Tin Stone sent here by you for Assay, I beg to advise result as follows :-
Dear bn, e cent Black Ti[l) contain j ng . 69.8 per cent, metal. .. Wolfram, ml
r Yours faithfully,
(Signed) JAMES HORSBCJRGH, Manager of Reduction Works.
To the Provisional Directors,
Tommy Burns Tin Mines, No Liability,
care of J. H. Brownlee, Chillagoe. , -
Dear Sirs,
I beg to apply f0r...... Shares in the above
Company, and enclose herewith £ : : in payment Jor same in-
terms of the Prospectus.
Dated the day of Sept., 1908, at ••••••••
Name in full.
Address,


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hrad Offick, :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £'3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527—Assuring £32.753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
r'he Hot.. O. J. Roberts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) * ~ LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp &Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Qukknsland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agrents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Rem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
HR A NTS RRAFTQ - 0,1 Australia, New Zea-
unnnio unnrio land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
&
WE
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
IKT.S.^W.
|||ont depieteO.li |. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Firej Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.) ; J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.:
S. E. Laidlev, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 181 Pitt St., SYDNEY-
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. K Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Shipping.
3XT. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Maiseilies, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
To MANILA, YAP, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
MANILA .. 20fh OPT
PRINZ WALDEMAR V - ' i" 7th NOV
PRINZ SICISMUND isth DEC.'
Unsurpassed Seasroins: Qualities Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnasre, Beat Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the A cents,
Tel. 698.
LOHMANN & CO., 7 Rridsre-street.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
limjtkd. ”
Capitai, Paid-up .. . .. .. £485,003 10 0
Kkskrvk Liability op Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
__ _ u u
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoct., E. H. Matthews
. London Officf. :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. A.ocuts and Correspondents
Throiuih.out the World.
A POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN 6.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57- .. £l6 Os Co £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s co £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
September 30.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 26.
AFIIIC, SUEVIO and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £,15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A rwlication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
JJaU/ety and Company, Ltd,,
Agents in Australia.
ĥ
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown. and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
ħ
CRUISES, t
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Balls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
NORTH COAST LANDS.
4500 ACRES. 4500 ACRES.
Subdivided into 28 Farms from 60 to 500 acres.
SPRINGROVE ESTATE
Pick of the famous Casino-Lismore Districts (Richmond
River) —the Greatest Butter-producing area in the Com-
monwealth. Each block available for immediate dairying',
3 miles from deep water, and close to rail.
Paspalum well established throughout.
Rich Volcanic Soil.
Magnificent water supply. Ten years terms.
FOR AUCTION SALE AT THE MASONIC HALL, CASINO,
ON
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17, at 11 a.m.
Full particulars other issues. Lithographs and all infor-
mation from
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE
ACENCY CO., Ltd., Sydney and
all Branches.
O. H. ANDERSON, Oasino
•T. B. McDOUGABL, Oasino
HINDMARSH & JOHNSTON, Lismore
All
Auctioneers
in
Conjunction.
The Mark of Qualify
JERN’S
99
ATOR
RAZOR Guaranteed
A High-Grade Razor, Fully Hollow-
Ground. Electrically Tempered.
Always Keeps the Edge. Each
Razor in a Case.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle.
7 in Case, one for each day of the week.
TO BE OBTAINED OF
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney. [2
«?
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10/-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY : also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Dulletin.j |5
Hotels, &c.
rEORGE HOTEL,
>St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, J to o Beaconjfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
fCHN Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
x tl)e Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, £-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
VERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR AND SHIRTS
are a safeguard against
COLDS AND CHILLS
during the change of seasons.
/ERTEX CELLULAR should always be worn next
the body.
Recommended by Doctors and Scientists all over
the world.
Write for Pamphlets and Illustrated Price Lists
Post Free.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
SUloplag.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PFRTE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Gran tala, Saturday,
October 10.
For Caulfield Cup.
S.S. Riverina, Saturday,
October 24.
For Melbourne Cup.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongala, Oct. 3.
S.S. Wollowra, Oct. 10.
Hest a uit Chen, pest Ho ate to Hold Heists.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst 1 ort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
A-tents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f^AFtITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
' BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MON EY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCLRSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
„ , Acting General Manager in Australia.
Tel. 375. 57 pjtt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
PROM KING STREET WHARVES.
Fob
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
ADELAIDE
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, September 26.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 3.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers [
and cargo for S.A., i
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other VV.A. ports.) J
KANOWNA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, October 31.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BIJNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS,' and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 26.
BURVVAH (Cargo only), 5 p.m.,
TUESDAY, September 29.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, October 3.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IiED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
<3TILLUSTRATED PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.= H.
5.
September 20th,
September 26th,
September 30th,
October sth.
Federal-Houlder-SRire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. SOMERSET.
11,300 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE •
„ „ „ SYDNEY
„ „ „ MELBOURNE.
~ ~ ~ • ADELAIDE -
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
L?VEIUT)OL d \ £49 10s - £l3 13s ‘ £is 15s ‘ £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed every four weeks by other fast twin-
screw passenger steamers. For futher information, illus-
trated pamphlets, etc., apply to —
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
I McILWRAITH, MeEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
i ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


COMPLETENESS is a Distinctive
Feature of our Stock
Have you had your copy of our
New Art Catalogue yet ? . . .
Come in any day and see what is
probably the most Complete Stock of
Up-to-date Goods at Reasonable Prices
that you could wish to see. We
welcome sightseers as we welcome
buyers —we don’t worry them.
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd.
If not, it is here ready wrapped up, and
wants but your name and address to speed
it on its way to you. It contains hundreds
upon hundreds of illustrations of the most
reliable kinds of Watches, Jewellery,
Silverware, Clocks, Purses, Bags, etc.
0
Gold-mounted Back Comb, 2/s.
Half-hoop of Diamonds,
in 18ft. Gold,
£6 10s.
Half-hoop; of Dark
Amethysts, in lBct.
Gold, £2 15s.
Fashionable 9bt. Gold Loose Link Bangle, with Padlock if desired, in case, £4 4s.
Half-hoop Diamond
and 18et. Ding’,
£l6 10s.
18cfc. Ring, Diamonds
and Rubies, £2 10s.
Gold-mounted Back Comb, 18s. 6d.
No. G 4704. Solid Silver Ink Stand, 50s>
No. H 2029. 9ct. Gold Links,
18s. Gd. Silver, 3s.
No. H 7732. Pearl Set, 15ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £7
7s
M „, ssn*? 70s '
No. 1906 A.
Heavy Trace Muff Chain, 9ct., £5 10s. ; 15ct., £9 10s.
The “ Perseus ” Peggy Bag, with
Safety Purse, 10s. 6d.
15ct. Gold and very fine Opal Bangle, £ll 10s.
No. H 2035. Oct. Gold
Links, 16s. 6d.
Silver, 3s.
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 13s. 6d.
No. H 7731. Pearl and Turquoise set, 15et. Gold Flexible Bangle, £7 10s
No. H 7094. Our latest in 9ct. Gold Bangles, £3.
No. 1908 A. Heavy Curb Muff Chain, 9ct., £5 10s. ; 15qt., £9 10s.
CONSTIPATION AND BILIOUSNESS
Removed by Kutnow s Powder.
■o functions are more frequency disturbed th *"
themselves, such disturbances nevert e so that their consideration becomes of vast
us less able to resist the various forms > than undue retention of food in the
importance. There is such disturbances and acts as a safeguard
stomach The regular use Of universa i remedy for Constipation, Biliousness and L.ver
SSKL'« merits .. enc, .m. -» <“ «*'•
AN EFFICIENT REMEDY.
All debris left from imperfectly digested food becomes
poisonous and vitiates the blood. Kutnow’s Powder
entirely removes these poisons from the system.
The symptoms of constipation are frequently exhibited
in the appearance of pimples, boils, skin blotches, an
other bodily disfigurements.
Nervous headache, despondency, brain-fag, insomnia
and even insanity can frequently be traced to this baneful
irregularity.
Kutnow’s Powder permanently removes Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, and all stomach troubles.
How to Avoid Fraudulent Substitutes.
The Genuine Ku.now-s Powder can be had of aU S
ST2-“are »» the pacha S e and
bottle. This is
How to get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
MAKES YOU HEALTHY.
H. C. MOFFATT, Esq.,
WRITES :
« Boy ton Manor, Codforcl, Wilts, January 17,1908.
“ Thanks for your parcel of seven bottles of Kutnow s
Powder, which I received this morning, and I am much
obliged to you for sending it off so promptly. I have
used this Powder for some years, and find its effects are
most beneficial-in fact, I am hardly ever without it.
I can fully recommend it as being the best aperient
powder I know of, as its action is not violent, while it is
invariably the same, and can always be relied on.”
Nurse WILLETT
WRITES :
“11 Stockmar Hoad, Hackney, N.E., January 3rd, 1908.
“ I gave Kutnow’s Powder to a lady who was suffering
from indigestion and constipation in a very bad form.
After taking a few doses she was very much relieved. I
shall speak most highly of it to others who are suffering.”
Sole Proprietors:
KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.


The S.A. Government has offered to keep
open for the Scotch fishing families certain lands
on Kangaroo Island. Some of the delegates have
settled down already. Says their leader : “Scot-
iand is the finest country in the world—to re-
member. Australia is the finest country in the
world to make a living out of.”
“ K.” writes :
England at the present time, is suffering from many
unemployed, and numerous learned bodies(and many not
so learned) have pawed the question over in a tentative
sort of way without coming to any conclusion worth
mentioning. The Trades Union Congress, representing
nearly 2,000,000 members, which met recently at Notting?
ham, considered the eternal problem, and the President
(one Shaekleton, M.P.), after remarking that “ the
question of unemployment was more than ever urgent”
made this dismal statement: “The first effective
alteration must be a reduction of the hours of labor.”
Apparently Shackleton’s idea is not to try and obtain
fresh work for Bill who is out of work, but to cut Jim’s
job in two, and give Bill one end and Jim the other : and
it, later on, Tom turns up with his toes protruding from
his broken imported boots, and his hair sticking out of
his ruined imported hat, the job will presumably be
sliced into three fragments. It sounds a siinple
ingenious plan warranted not to interfere with
defect 0 Th g ? spe of .. Fre ? trafle . but it has one
detect. The time would arrive when the evenly-divided
job would only last each worker ten minutes per day,
which would yield him a handful of rice every 24 hours
and a new- loincloth once a year. One of the Svdnev
dailies remarked the other morning that Freetrad'e was
very fruitful in new ideas. Shackleton’s calamitous out-
burst is the most recent sprout it has produced.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, lumbago,
NEURALGIA.
Rf#)i r ’w gout and
J-JIO.II d RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
h
115,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Australia laughed ! 11 Ivo. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
SMOKE
<sr
REFEREE
TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
W HOLESALE AGENTS—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
1 • r. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane,
i. RICH ARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & 00., Port Darwin.
s««
PIOTOIOIC3CK/
PBBBBIBiB
i
Olv.
MS
WINCHESTER
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The important points in a shotgun cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
Makes you look manly.
—And then his Moustache came!
of cAPILLARmE h hm, d I!?' bit of od ‘ he hea?d
cLnetoirfectfon 3ar ’ and the,J - wlth his moustache
If you can’t raise a full moustache, try CAPILLARINE yourself. It has
been used for 25 years and has never been known to fail.
Price 10/0.
in plain wrapper,
to any part of the world.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654“
Established 25
George
Years.
Street,
Sydney*
insure against fire.
• The ...
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ĥ
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
' ' tflned extract of tobacco, of uniform
stiength ; long-esinblisited, safe, reliable, aud
nanny to use.
Insist on haviug NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take 6
For sale by seeasmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. J). MORRISON
■Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street. Sydney. *
Sample bottles and full particulars by i/oei
18. 4 d. (stampsj to make 5 gallons spray.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NerronsCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
E T TES. Fn d by all Chemists.
VIGOROUS
I
'Jill
%
m
m
I
#
IT, hi*
t Cf ui\L
1W V \
WITHOUT
DRUGS!
JT VERY MAN
who is Weak and
Failing knows that there should be “ something ” that
will restore that “old-time vigor ” to his body. He
has invariably tried all kinds of medicines and found
them a total failure. He finds himself worse instead
of better. If you have been paying money to doctors
and taking nasty medicines for years, and have
derived no benefit from it all, do you not thiiik it
is time to stop ? Twenty years’ experience with
drugs and electricity has confirmed us in the
knowledge that Electricity alone, without any
other material aid, will re-
place and renew lost energy
and vitality, and that our appliance is the only prac-
tical, commonsense way of applying it. Thousands of
grateful letters from cured patients, who suffered from
Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Lost Vigor, Ner-
vousness, Kidney Trouble, Backache, Rheuma-
tism, Sciatica, Varicocele, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Stomach, Liver and
Bowel Troubles, tell us that medicine failed
to cure them, and that “Nature’s Cure,”
Electricity, as given by the improved
DR. McLAUCHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
th fo , » tS w*?k eC people tta ° hmentS weak art > Women, DSD CURE them after they, had given Up hope. It is the grandest invention of the
price is as low n’t weak sickly, delicate person will ever regret giving it a fair trial. It is within the reach of all. The
the standard It th ® originato [ s of the Electric Belt system of home treatment in Australasia. Our Belt is
It IS Guaranteed , no charge for repairs, and . will last a lifetime. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
£5OO REWARD
.Every Bi% McLaughlin’s Electric Belt we sell is guaranteed to give a strong
current, instantly felt* We will pay £5OO to anyone proving the contrary.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong and Vigorous, with your veins full of youthful fire, your eyes clear,
your muscles strong and active, then write to us to-day, and we will send you, post paid, our new
1 ree Book, which every man and woman should read, and which will inspire you with courage to
help yourself. It is full of the things that make a man feel like BEING a man. Write tO-day.
CALL IF POSSIBLE.
Office Hours—9 a.m.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
5 3opm. The McLAUGHUN CO., Dept. 10, No. 7 Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.


“ Oby’s ” few remarks :
It is all very well for Laborites and Radicals in the
British Commons to protest against King Edward’s,
assumption of the roie of actual ruler, but is he real 1 \
doing any such thing? He is going about-from King to
King, of course, but is there really any ruling in .that ?
Those other potentates know their own limitations, and
distinctly know his. It is possible, of course, that King
Edward, in his old age, is falling into the family habit
of imagining that he and not Parliament actually
runs the show', but that is fairly harmless. His
ancestors were given that way. Geo. IV., to
all appearance, solemnly believed he had fought
battles with Napoleon and that he personally
charged at Waterloo. Also he regarded himself with
simple faith as the moving cause of most great happen-
ings of his time. Geo. 111. w'as a similar megalomaniac.
“ Charlotte, Charlotte,” he cried to the Queen when he
read a despatch that reported some small success, “ I
have beaten the Americans.” Old Farmer George planned
out amazing campaigns in his cranium, and when things
went wrong he only felt that his schemes had been
muddled by incompetent inferiors. Kings mostly run to
megalomania, and as a rule the best thing their subjects
can do is to take no notice unless the monarch gets
beyond mere theory and starts to actively whoop things up.
The S. M. Herald has “ got ” patriotism
all right.' This from a-leader (12/9/"08): —
We conceive that in the position which Britain now has
to face, the daughter nations, and, most of all, Australia,
• will be fourid'doing that which the exigencies of the.lm-
; perial situation demands. What that Imperial duty in- •
volves in its entirety we are not prepared at this moment
to say. But we do say that on the .Dutch principle, that
“the shirt is nearer than the coat, i’ our first duty is to
see that we make the most ample provision we are capable
of making for the defence of Australia. Just as the
dawning upon informed Englishmen of the real import of
German,intentions has caused all unrelated international
' questions to 'sink into relative insignificance, so.we hope
the importance of the Defence question will lay such hold
of the Federal Parliament that it will ruthlessly brush
aside everv doctrinaire objection, and apply its combined
intelligence to the task of giving to Australia the most
far-reaching system of defence its manhood is capable of
supplying. •- - - - - - j , ■' ■ "
rrr
& Sohn,
A. (I.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany,
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain an ( d:
.*•: America: i > ’•>
ħ
REFLEX
Cameras
5 SIZES.
£ x 2$ inch,
x 3j inch.
4 x 81
r :&}' x ■ < li::(i-p4te).
if x 4 inch.
WITH FOCAL PLANE' SHUTTER.
Sole Australasian Aoents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking: with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), post free. [2
DON'T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
h
ĥ
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of" any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand 99“ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers tlje privilege of repaving •
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon AW. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas o’ Fairfax Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
o
0
%
1
A
\j
_Vi nwffn
T romp Card
1 FROM
i 11.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON
DINING ROOM tableL
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
To
FROM
2.11.5.
*
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
jt
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
L*Sl
0
ħ
ES
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training 1 within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.* !
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENCLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations. _
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in whieh vmi are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLECE,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
hh
NEAT Md
STRONG. '
MEND
BELTS'and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend bask the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington, Eng.
Price List on
application.
ĥ
“ PLASMON increases the
food value enormously."
— Lancet.
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
j DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
[ Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History. ;
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a.
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, Is.
Strui Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY .
ħ
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNES
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR ''
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in Encjland-1!1i, 2/9, 4/6.
h
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis. Cough Difficulty
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Co ds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “ Coughs’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
BeWUFe of Imitaitioiis ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE.—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. JAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person. ,
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
ĥ
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK. SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
15he LEADING
HOUSE
ħ
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on alt parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
■ Yi mulrf-w
M=ss
UjU'lwii ~2sW9 ]
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
m
No. 2 B.W.C.
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing. •
CAN’T
B
BEAT
Price 14s
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
Sizes—
4in., 7/0 ea. ; sin., 9/0 each
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
h
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Trices, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s fid posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.:
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is fid. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young: and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting-, their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to -Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McOougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s fid- Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Fife in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No flatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEftR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d uost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Boor op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, Sd
posted. Tokology, 7s Bdpost. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s AdvicE to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipe’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000'illus., leather
bound, my price, Ids post paid (why pay 3 and. 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing', Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
st»
*0
f Af
PIPES
to theTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from at! Tobacconists ,
r JTHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
1 Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
; necial rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
21 4 George Street, Sydney.
Free 1
';:f %U
?-ft High
R LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR R BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-siz d Doll is an exact re production of a hand-oainte 1
French c eation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, be mtiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye , and rep esented with flesh-col >ure body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete witli darts, etc., higulv
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of be-t material rapid in its action, and
ecut ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WaTCH
CHaiN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money t?/~, arm we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TR JST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World —Imitated but Unrivaueu
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents—a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
1 Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plaiilly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by ret«m.
Windsor Wright &Co., Seedsmen, 9,0 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
?
Eoy’s Rifie.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Patronage.
Under Vice-3*.egal
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161
KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereap-h Streets.
S - TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
STOCK.
Telephone 2138.
2£ Jlustralasian
i*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST £l per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invit'd to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It s the finest shilling s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
Tonrc
Trcrzrr
qCARBo
5?
n
s§
i?
<o
1
ERG^V
I
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP
6d. per Tablet.
MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE
COD-LIVER OIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy for Coughs. Colds, Consumption and
all Lung Complaints.
As a food and buHder-un for both children
ana adults 9 MQLLER’S OIL is unequalled » «
BECAUSE: It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
A GUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS SAYS ABOUT MOLLER’S
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
Medical Review.—" We have no hesitation in saving it is quite unexcelled. It is
of a pale golden colour : it is free from any trace of free acid ; it is easi y assimilated,
and. what is most important, it does not cause ebuctati ons on nausea. _
Medical Press.—" Messrs. Peter Moller, Ltd., by the introduction of then
Hydroxyl-Free Cod-Liver Oil. have placed in thehands of medical men a most excel-
lent and valuable preparation which is almost free from taste, limpid in character,
and. what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable repeatmgs we
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
[ROLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the ouly Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
fd
Agents—
Harrison & Attwood,
Sydney.
The Outcast.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE woke with a thud, from a weird, un-
lovely slumber and with a strange feel-
ing of his limbs being half-glued to the
ground.
He guessed what that must be—some added
force of gravitation.
He was on some larger planet, hundreds of
times as bulky as the earth, with more pulling
power, and that power made his bones, when he
went to lift them, seem as heavy as lead. Some-
thing had happened, then, and he, perhaps for his
sins, was off the earth, translated somehow. In
the mystery of it, his mind could yet go back to
terrestrial things—for instance, to the threatened
dire malevolence of his powerful rival.
Perhaps that had come off ! Perhaps he was
dead ! Perhaps this was Purgatory ! Per
damn perhaps !
He carelessly essayed to get up on his feet, but
no sooner had he done so than, with ever so slight
an overbalancing, he came down again and with
violence. The very ground was vicious and
pulled him towards it to his injury. This globe
must be a boshter. It was safer to go on his
hands and knees.
* * * *
Silence reigned, and profound darkness, save
for the stars, which he could see and recognise.
This proved that at any rate he was on the solar
system.
And yet there was something wrong. All the con-
stellations had a twisted look ! The belt of Orion
had an upward tilt; the large stars at the knees
were closer together, and other things were to
match. Even the old Southern Cross was ob-
liquely foreshortened, he could swear. In fact, it
was horribly certain, and he dare not look longer
lest madness should get him.
He collapsed in a stupor of terror and de-
spair, and lay on his face an indefinite time.
He realised that it would take billions of
miles of displacement from his little earth
to account for it all, and the inevitable slowly
soaked into him that he was somewhere on
the extreme outside edge of the solar system
not even on the great Jupiter, or the
friendly Mars, but away out, where the distances
ran to billions.
* » * ♦
Perhaps, he thought, still with his face to the
ground, he would better guess where he was when
the sun rose. If it only looked like a star, then
he would know for certain that he was far enough
off to be on Neptune or Uranus !
When the sun rose! Good God ! Perhaps
this was Uranus, of the non-inclined axis, where
the day is half a revolution —42 years! with a night
of 42 years following, and this possibly only the
beginning of it! Night following night ! A
wait in the dark for 42 years ! The very thought
stiffened his arms and wrenched him off the
ground to amble down his desperate excitement
on all fours.
In groping about over the surface, which
seemed lukewarm (the mighty old sphere, what-
ever it was, had not quite cooled off, it appeared),
his hands felt some spongy substance, some growth
of fungi. He plucked and smelt it, and then ate.
It might be poisonous ; he hoped it was ; but it
smelt good, and, being moist and grateful to the
palate, he ate some more. That was all he found,
besides the level ground he crawled about on, and
it remained level as far as he cared to crawl.
Later on he faced the stars again—the loathsome
stars, slightly out of perspective, that frightened
him and shrieked out his fate to him.
j Out of all the thousands he could see only one
that was not twinkling—in other words, that was
not a fixed star—a “ foreigner.”
The solitariness of that one told its own tale
,and was also the key to his own position. It was
Uranus, and he knew now that it was Neptune he
was on—the last planet of all, to which only
Uranus is near enough to be seen. With the
knowledge, a strange wild reaction came to him,
and, taking comfort at the sight of the small but
steady light shining amid the uncanny host, he
lost his terror, and defiantly shrieked back at the
twinkling fiends. At all events, he was on the
solar system, if on the edge of it !
The same sun yet controlled him that controlled
the earth and all on it that was his. And that
earth held Her. Absence was burning misery;
but absence was only absence, and as bitter at a
mile as at a billion of them.
At any rate, it was She he was rushing round
at the rate of 22,000 miles an hour, if it did take
164 years to complete the circle ! No other man
in all the vast circle of Her admirers moved round
Her in such a vast ring as that.
And such love as his was only matched by such
Vastness. There was not room enough on the
earth for it. Matters of terrestrial moment inter-
fered with it.
But there, alone in the darkness (he trusted he
was alone), with that reeling distance between
them, lie could yet live on, and gazing past
Uranus, in the direction She might be, meditate
on Her, ponder about Her, keeping a unique
vigil, doing a superb homage, and beating all
records of woman worship whatsoever !
Could She but know it! And in that vigil he
fell asleep. It may have been something in the
air, or something in the fungi.
He woke with a thud again, and a kick from
the pillow, owing to that little matter of gravita-
tion, but he was getting used to things a little now.
Giving his bruise a mechanical rub or two, and
laying his head down more carefully, lie dreamily
mused with liis eyes open—mused until just over
the horizon was Venus, or what for the moment
he took for her. So it was natural he should
imagine he was back on the earth again, and
that Neptune as an idle dream. But not for long.
For this morning star was unnaturally twink-
ling, more so than they of the skew-whiff con-
stellations, which, wearily upending himself, he
now compared with her.
He was on Neptune right enough. It had been
no dream and this was no Vends ! This was
sunrise, this morning star was Old Sol himself,
the “orb of day” reduced by his immense dis-
tance ! But see how he sparkled, and (being
some billions of miles nearer) shamed the rest!
The Castaway rubbed his eyes, and across sill
that awful space of 10 figures could again
once more ihe potential 100° in the shade and
smell in fancy the smoke of the bushfire.
He held up his hands to the sun’s gentle light so
that he could see them—human hands ! He half
saw his profile shadow on them —a human face-
company, if but a shadow, in that ungraspable
solitude.
Her sun and his sun, holding in its holy warmth
Her planet and His planet, regulating their
gettings up and their iyings-down. He would
'ook at it for ever.
Perhaps some day there would be an eclipse or
transit, and even the tiny world itself that She
was actually on, microscopic as it was, would be
visible floating between that star and him just for
one swift moment. God grant it!
Life was still worth living.
He groped round for more fungi.
G. BRON.
Evolution in Fiji.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Fiji Times says:—The Mayorship of Mr. G. J. Marks
seems destined to bring many changes for the betterment
of Suva. He is leaving no stone unturned whereunder
he may hope to find the smallest modicum of pleasure or
comfort for the people. The latest tax upon his personal
expenditure for the public good is an ice-chest stocked
with the best whisky, wines and soda, installed in the
boardroom, so that guests of the town do not need to go
outside in order to honor the King. A supply of cigars
has also been provided, and in future no guest will go
away with the impression that there is anything wrong
with the personal health or finances of the Suva Town
board.
IN this palm-clad coral isle
The Heathen maiden’s smile
To destruction, in the Old Days
lured the sinner ;
And the missionary man,
On the glad Pacific plan,
Very often formed the first course in the dinner.
They tried him roast and stewed,
Till Fijians were imbued
With Bible texts ana pious exhortations —
“ Such as love thy fellow meat,
Gripes ! This parson is a treat! ”
And Freetrade ruled in free-food importations.
In their simple, savage way
A tune they used to play
On the bare and polished rib-bones of the toiler
In the vineyard of the Lord,
Who had perished by the sword —
Or knobstick, ere he went into the boiler.
He was served up steaming hot
To the guests- —-a motley lot—
Who mostly numbered more than one-and-twenty;
While their mouths were full of him
They sang his fav’rite hymn—
“ Feed the Hungry ! ” “ Ki, lei, parson make it
plenty.”
Though unversed in learned lore
They’d of simple words a store,
And they sent ’em round with bits of missionary,
Such as “ Brother, pass the meat,
I’m partial to the feet,
They’re better than a wing of cassowary.
‘ Ask and ye shall receive,’
He told us to believe ;
But never, when I listened to his chatter,
Did I think he’d eat so well,
Though truth it were to tell,
He’d be better if he were a trifle fatter.”
And the maidens undismayed,
Coyly flirted in the shade,
Untroubled by their woeful lack of dresses ;
For the maidens of the Isles
Were mostly clad in smiles,
And a shell or two stuck in their woolly tresses.
. They disported in the nude,
And did not think it rude
Because they’d never patronised a tailor ;
With a bangle on each arm—
Round their ankles p’raps a charm—
Garbed in innocence they’d mash a shipwrecked
sailor.
But the trader man of sin.
With tobacco, rum and gin,
The morals of the Islanders corrupted ;
And this sweet, idyllic life,
With wars and raids and strife,
And such-like things, was rudely interrupted.
The white man settled down,
And straightway built a town,
And endowed it with the usual corporation,
Run by portly aldermen,
Who with one voice say “Amen ”
In responding to the Mayoral invitation.
They adjourn, and tap the beer,
While with alcoholic leer,
The editor sits writing at the table ;
And that writing tells a tale,
For the ink is often ale—
Pale ale, instead of ink in color sable.
But he never pons a line
While the whisky or the wine
From the Mayor’s ample store is freely flowing;
Then they send around the hat
For the pressman on the mat,
While the smoke from choice Havanas they are
blowing.
Evolution’s had its way,
Things are not as yesterday—
The Heathen they have cleansed and civilised
him ;
Civilised him off the earth.
Of his numbers there’s a dearth,
Still with rum that stings and bites they have
baptised him.
Where he gambolled in the glen
There are sinful aldermen,
And editors who pile up worldly riches ;
Now no dusky maidens rude
Go flirting in the nude,
And throughout the land the men are clothed in
breeches.
Though their race is nearly run,
And Fijians, one by one,
To that bourne have passed whence there is no
returning,
Where they’re skating on the ice,
On the rinks of Paradise —
If in the other place they are not burning ;
But that could never be—
They were taught the wrath to flee,
And their teacher —well, how could they better
treat him ?
He assured them that he could
Lead them through sin’s tangled wood,
And a leader should go first, so they did eat him.
QUEENSLAND.
AUSTIN DODD.


Does Your Back
Ever AcHe?
*Every picture
tells a story."
M
V:
V
Don’t make light of
a pain in the back. It
means there is conges-
tion and inflammation
in the kidneys—that
the kidneys are
clogged and inactive,
can’t do their whole
duty of Altering the
blood. It means the
circulation of impure
blood throughout the
body, a weakening of
every nerve, muscle,
and vital organ.
Doan’s Kidney Pills
have a quick and
direct action on the
kidneys. They drive
out the poisons that
infest the blood,
cleanse and stimulate
the kidneys, regulate
the urine, cure backache, dizziness and languor, and per-
manently heal the kidneys.
SYDNEY MAN CURED.
Farrier-Sergeant Grace, late of the First Regiment, Australian Bushmen,
now living at 39 Campbell Street, Glebe, Sydney, wrote from Klip Drift,
S. Africa, March Ist, 1901:—“I am very pleased to state that we have your
famous Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in the midst of our regiment. I was
very much troubled in the early part of the campaign with pains all over me,
especially in the back. You see, I was always trekking about in bad weather,
and sleeping on the damp ground, and one would want an iron constitution to
withstand the inroads on the system. Many mornings I have tried to get up,
but failed until I obtained assistance. My agony was often so bad that I have
felt inclined to rush into the zone of the enemy’s fire and put an end to my
sufferings. All the military doctors who treated me failed to do me any good.
One day a comrade gave me three boxes of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
told me to try them. The first box eased me greatly ; the third box completed
the cure. Many of my comrades used thorn, and they swear by this wonderful
medicine. Indeed, this testimony expresses their gratitude to Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills as well as mine.”
On 11th March, 1908, Mrs. Grace says:—“My husband has been free of
kidney trouble ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him, seven
years ago.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure Inflamma-
tion of the Kidneys and Bladder, Pain or
Dull Ache in the Back, Joints and
Muscles; cure Gravel, Weak Heart,
and all Urinary Troubles.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2/9 per box
(six boxes 15/3), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
*-•:•• 9BH Rm •■ wPklli $ ■-■:•:
;
Ss *backache,|^«
fe^4ws#w.
Piles.
Cnred After Years of Suffering—
Proof that Doan’s Ointment
Will Cure Piles.
Piles rarely kill, but they cause constant
torture. This is especially true in the case of
those who are ever so slightly constipated.
Piles can be quickly and permanently cured
without pain, cutting, or detention from
business. This has been proved in thousands
of cases of both sexes and of all ages, and in
the very worst as well as in ordinary cases.
No one who has not suffered the tortures of
itching, painful and bleeding Piles can appre-
ciate for a moment the marvellous sense of
relief that follows the use of Doan’s Ointment.
Go at once and get a pot of this ointment; it
will end your sufferings.
Mrs. F. Flynn, Melbourne Cleaning and
Dyeing Co., 232 Darling Street, Balmain',
Sydney, says: “No one likes their health
troubles to he made public, but if the know-
ledge will be the means of saving other people
years of suffering, then I think it a duty to
make a public statement. For over 12 months
I suffered from protruding Piles ; the pain of
this terrible complaint prevented me from
getting proper rest at night, and so I could
not do my work. I was really in a bad state,
and the pain nearly drove me mad. I cannot
now remember all the remedies I used : I got
everything I heard about, but it was only
waste of time, for they did not even give me
ease. When at my worst, I commenced using
Doan’s Ointment. I got immediate relief,
and one pot cured me. I earnestly recom-
mend all sufferers to try this wonderful Oint-
ment.”
Two years later Mrs. Flynn has something
else to say on this subject: “ I have now had
time to test my cure, for it is two years since
I used Doan’s Ointment, and I am pleased to
tell you that I am still free of the torture of
Piles. I cannot find vvords to express my
gratitude to Doan’s Ointment for my per-
manent cure.”
When we say that Doan’s Ointment will
cure Piles, we mean exactly what we say,
nothing more or less, and it is because of the
thousands who have been cured that we are
able to say this. The above is one instance ;
we have similar testimony from every town in
Australia. Doan’s Ointment is sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or
will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But, be sure you get DOAN’S.
A Glimpse of Gippsland Grass.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AWAY out back when the winter’s dead
With a still-born spring at breast,
And the drought conies up on the wings
i of dread
From the desert-hells far west,
Till 'the gaping plains lie brown and bare,
And the gaunt mobs, moaning, pass,
It’s oh ! for a breath of the mountain air
And a glimpse of the Gippsland grass !
I’ve watched the earth in the morning wake
Dry-lipped from the parching heat,
As the north wind paused in its wrath to shake
Dead leaves to its blistered feet;
And I’ve seen the sun, like a demon born
Of the dead, burnt spring-time days,
Flame out from the raw, red lids of morn
Till the east was a molten haze.
I have seen the noon, with its scorching eye,
Fling fire on the earth’s scant dress,
Then hide, as the smoke-pall mounted high,
To gloat on its wantonness ;
And hour by hour I have watched the day
Bend low for a better sight;
Till the west drank blood and the wanton lay
Death-still in the arms of night.
And, oh ! on the face of the eventide
Each star was a bloody tear ;
And the moon went out on her ghostly ride—-
A blood-clot lit with fear ;
And the dead-of-night was a noisome thing
With the breath of a hidden hell,
With ever the beat of a hopeless wing
To weave it a ghoulish spell.
To-day the downs by the riverside
Are bronze in a furnace-glow ;
To-day the stream is a sand-waste wide
Where only the heat-waves flow ;
To-day gaunt mobs in their brute despair
Like tottering blind men pass ;
To-day—Oh God, for the mountain air
And a glimpse of the Gippsland grass !
VIC.
E. S. EMERSON.
Killing Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOUS blokes better get up a beast and
kill it, if yer want any beef for sup-
per,” the cook said.
Mac and I were probationary, supernumerary
station hands on Kiabulloo, and had just taken up
our purely honorary duties. All hands, excepting
the cook, were out mustering, and we were left to
sink or swim.
“ Where’ll we get a beast?” asked Mac, plain-
tively.
“ Why, run in the first blanky one you see with
condition on it.” The cook was scornful.
I saw this was a crisis that must be met with the
whole of our resources. We decided to consult
the blacks, they being the only resources in sight.
Byron and Peter, two venerable nigs., were
selected for cross-examination.
Mac was spokesman. “How you catchee cow
sposee you wantee killee, you savee?” he in-
quired, insinuatingly, of Peter.
“ Baal me knowem that one yabber; mine
tinlc it plurry fool,” Peter answered. He was
scornful, too.
Mac looked perplexed, and I took up the run-
ning.
“Look here, Peter, we want kill bullock.
Which way we get him in yard ? ”
Peter smiled in gentle contempt.
“ All about boy gettem bullocky, quick fellow,
sposem you gibbit horse, my word ! ”
We decided to make room for native talent, and
Peter was put in command.
Twenty minutes sufficed to bring the crowd
back at racing speed in the rear of three animals,
which were duly yarded : (1) roan bull, full of
years and indignation ; (2) bullock of consump-
tive appearance, who dropped as soon as he
passed the. sliprails—disqualified ; (3) gaunt, red-
complexioned cow, with a sour look and more
than the usual share of feminine fretfulness. Her
we devoted to the slaughter.
Map had armed himself with an ancient Snider
carbine. Resting the barrel on the fifth rib of
the fence he brought it slowly into line with the
exact centre of the victim’s forehead, and pulled
the trigger. Nothing followed. He had for-
gotten to,load the weapon. The minutest search
failed, moreover, to unearth a single cartridge on
the premises.
Nothing remained but to consult the embit-
tered cook. " He averred that the last cartridge
had been expended a week before, and upon
our appealing for further fruits of his experience,
he declared, with many vivid figures of speech
that, although he was not there to dry-nurse a lot
of encarmined jackeroos, he’d advise us to get a
head-rope and pith the beast after roping her.
He even explained how we ought to do it.
Mae threw the rope first, and caught a stock-
yard post. I followed, and caught a nigger.
Peter then tried, and caught the cow.
Nine blaekfellows, eleven gins, divers picca-
ninnies and myself tailed on the free end of the
rope to draw the unwilling victim to the fence.
Mac stood by with a big knife and a de-
termined expression. A cloud of blacks’ dogs
hovered on our outskirts yelping encouragement.
This was the strenuous life indeed. Hand over
hand our intended supper was dragged towards
the rails, digging reluctant hoofs into the dust to
stay her progress. It was hard work.
“ Come on, cow ! ” I yelled, encouragingly—and
she came on.
She came on through the shaky panel of fence ;
she came on Mack’s shoulders with a hard, indig-
nant head ; she came on my breast-bone with an
emphatic hoof. And then she went on with 25ft.
of greenhide rope and two stringybark rails tow-
ing behind her, leaving a trail of demoralised
aborigines in her rear.
We had rabbit for supper.
DEXTER.
Harry Kingi’s Broken Vow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE air was charged with a tense, though
suppressed, excitement. It was plain to the
least receptive mind that something was
about to happen. Outside the runanga, the atmo-
sphere was heavy with muggy heat and the green
bush dripped moisture. Inside, the heat was
terrific—and aromatic. A thick fog obscured the
river, which was but a hundred yards distant.
The older generations of Maoris knew but two
conditions of mind —the phlegmatic calm such as
succeeded a big feast, and the wild ecstatic excite-
ment which took charge of them when they
danced the haka. But the Maori is becoming
civilised, and amongst other things which he has
learned from the pakeha is the habit of outward
calm. Only at the races or the football match
does the old frenzy show itself, and Henare
becomes once more the whooping, “long pig”-
eating hooligan.
The feeling of unrest had spread from two or
three to the whole 200 natives who were gathered
together at the big meeting-house. As the night
drew on, they met in little groups, whispering
and explaining, and breaking up only to come
together somewhere else, when the same perform-
ance would be gone through. Harry Kmgi had
been seen at Uawa, and had told Tamahau Kura-
waka that he was coming to the meeting-house,
and the news had made a stir. And
because of that which Harry Kingi had
said before he went away the Maoris threw
many curious glances at Hiamoe Waiuku and her
husband, big Tame ; but no one spoke to these
two pending the arrival of the wanderer.
Hiamoe and Tame said nothing, but sat stolidly
smoking.
The meeting-house was a large wooden building
constructed in the form of a T, the upper end
being the meeting-house proper, and the longer
part the sleeping room, capable of accommodating
300 natives. A calico curtain, stretched across
the. middle of the long room, divided the men’s
from the women’s sleeping quarters. On the
present occasion the curtain had been thrown
over the rope which suspended it, and the sexes
mixed together, some sitting on the forms which
ran the length of the batten tables, others lying
on the tables themselves, and all smoking. They
were a mixed crowd. Tattooed veterans who in
the past had participated in cannibal orgies,
weighty wahines, Masters of Arts who owned race-
horses and were celebrated footballers—all ages,
all colors, and • all styles of dress or undress were
there. Their beds consisted of straw-filled
mattresses placed close together on the bare floor,
and the bed coverings were as assorted as their
owners.
The meeting-house had been built to the order
of Pore Toroa, who intended it to be a place
where the Otahuhus and the Tamateas and the
Ponekes could come together and discuss mutual
grievances and do homage to the memory of
Boro Toroa, benefactor and volunteer officer.
When the building was completed Rore died.
Post mortem investigations showed that the de-
parted one had spent all his gold in motor cars and
golf stockings, and had quite forgotten to pay for
the barnlike meeting-house, so the memory of
Rore Toroa became a blot on the landscape and a
byword amongst his people. The present gather-
ing was for the purpose of appointing delegates to
proceed to Wellington and Remand that Parlia-
ment should at once supply the people of the
Otahuhu district with the following necessaries :
(1) Five tons of seed potatoes, (2) two billiard
tables, and (3) 10 footballs. The position of dele-
gate was decidedly popular, and 200 nominations
had been received. The delegates would stay at a
hotel in Wellington. So far no business had
resulted, as each candidate had received one vote
—his own. Incidentally it was understood that
Harry Kingi would address the meeting elo-
quently about his grievance.
A dog barked, and the pack of
flew towards the road, where a shadowy figure
was emerging from the mist. It was Harry
Kingi. Some men who were smoking outside
knocked the glow from their cigarettes and
entered the sleeping-room, announcing that Harry
had arrived. Without any bustle the natives
began to file into the meeting-house. They sat on
the floor in rows, and no one spoke above a whis-
per. On the stage, which occupied one end of the
room, the council of six took its place. When all
were seated Harry Kingi swaggered in. He was
a low-browed, coarse-looking half-caste, thick-
lipped and negro-like. He was dressed in a
dilapidated tweed suit, black scarf and blucher
boots, and he displayed the manners of a bear or
a bottle-oh.
No greetings were exchanged and no reference
made to the business in hand, but the Rev.
Tiha Terawhiti—fine-featured and white-haired—
offered a simple prayer, and the breathing of his
hearers sounded like a vast sigh. Then, without
any preliminary announcement, the wanderer
started his narrative. He had the eloquence of
the Maori and the conceit of the small-minded
pakeha. He also had a grievance. “ The people
of Otahuhu remember me and when I went away
and the vow which I made to Hiamoe, daughter
of Erehu Kahi; and the people of Otahuhu and
Poneke and Tamatea know that Haere Kingi
never broke his word.”
Like a roll of guttural thunder came the
affirmation, “Yes, we know.”
“Since then I have travelled far, even unto
Fiji and Samoa and once to Tahiti, and I have
seen many sights stranger than the visions of
Maui and more weird than the tales of Tui te
Tohunga. But my heart has ever been at Ota-
huhu with Hiamoe the beautiful. O people of
the tribe of Maui, you see before you a broken-
-hearted man ! Hiamoe, who swore to be faithful,
has married Tame Waiuku, and made of me an
object of ridicule. O wise and just Council, I ask
what punishment is fit for this man and this
woman ! Think o‘f the days and nights of toil
which I have endured to earn enough to make a
home for this woman. Think, O sons and
daughters of Te Wherowhero, ruler of Teßeinga,
of the high position of donkeyman—worth £7 a
month—which I have sacrificed to return home
and claim my bride. Justice —I ask for j ustice”
“Kum ut, ye blavguard!” It was Constable
O’Grady, fat arid perspiring, who stood at the
speaker’s elbow. Kum ut and get justice from
his ’anner, an’ stop yer paylaffering, or O’ill lay
me baton on ye, an’ anything ye say will be used
as evidence against ye, s’help me Gawd.”
**•*’*
And Harry Kingi, vagabond and city loafer,
was sentenced to twelve months’ imprisonment
for deserting his wife at Auckland, and to two
years for robbery, and to various other terms.
“ Which,” as big Tame said to Hiamoe his wife,
“shows that Te Atua still looks after his
children.”
MAORI MAC.


“Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
ĥ
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system Up so
s that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
H
U*
to
o
LUi
uls
%n
yj
r«
rM <'r»
fe'v’o I
m
*
MONEY
WANTED
T n order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
into every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHEn and
CHAINS. CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES MUFF
CHAINS! SOLID GOLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc , FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All rou have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc.: Seil the packets at 3d.
per packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our graud list.
WE TRUST YOU—THE RISK IS OURS You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0,52 BOND ST SYDNEY, N SW.
ħ
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule hears the name
m
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn -and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office. ss.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURKRS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Th* Standard Remedy which lias outlived the Centime*
SINGLETON'S EYE QINTHENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight,Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
h
Imparts to Metal the
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name.
Ask for SOLARINE,
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
"'
Wa
mu//,
m
s L o
5>V
O
Manufactured by
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
CQLO ?nd P dtf |S POST CARDS.
®Q
p~f[ GOOD LUCK |[E%
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
•o packets, each containing 6of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have so.d the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of jewellery which we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete wi h every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make ycfu this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLEINDID VALUE, and in
everj), case positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
REGALPOST CARDC?,I26 OCQNNEIL STS> DNEY.
Are you Bothered A
by Biliousness ■
Many people are. It is a very common form of liver trouble, and a
very unpleasant one, involving sick-headache, nausea, dizziness, and
often complete prostration during an attack. When you are bilious
you require something that will effectively stimulate the liver and give
speedy relief, and there is no better medicine for this purpose than
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
because they act directly on the congested organ, regulate the
flow of bile and carry off all impurities. But the good effects
of Beecham , s Pills are not only confined to the regulation of the
liver. The complexion improves, the dark circles under the eyes
disappear, the head clears, and the general health is renewed.
Beecham's Pills are purely vegetable and a safe medicine for man,
woman, and child. Take them as directed whenever there is need to
Exercise the Liver.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/H (56 pills) 8f 2/9 (168 pills).
ĥ
ħ
h
The King of Windmills
IS THE
‘STEEL WINGS.”
Strongly Built. Large Sail Area. A
Bearing on each side of the Windwheel.
Simple Balance Gear. Moderate in first
cost. Cost of maintenance: Nil.
Built in all sizes from 8 to 100 feet in diameter;
will give from 1 to 100 h.p.
Estimates, Price Lists and Illustrated Booklets
furnished on application to
Steel Wings Windmill Co., Ltd.,
Department O,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY,
The Bulletin
Gfo
•• t POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
< &7 s s.'idr&)
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in liis Blindness.’’ From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
1 A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten■ Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
%lk George Street , Sydney.
CARDS.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatlv reduced prices to clear
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, -right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6. <
Sale Price .. .. ■. • ■ • • .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 16s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hannnerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price' £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
S Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellentstock,
withcartridgemachine andcleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated. Catalogue—posted free.
ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
MEN
and
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &».
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,"
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pagres
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE.
To all persons suffering 1 from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement, cut our. ~' , ,
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on Mens special Ailments
on receipt of this adversisement. {Sgf Note Address
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elmley House,”
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


CRICKET TIME!!?
Once more the season for
Cricket is here. Have you
bought your Shoes yet ? You’ll
want a new pair, so you might
as well get them good. Here
cricket shoes-"' " e recomme,,d -
-780S&: sr
Men’s “ Ohn S , 10es ’ with White Soles. 4/9.
Boj.',TOTK;i,to™.V lth Bl ” k Sc, “- 3/3;
CRICKET BOOTS—
Boys^6/6 e ° anVaS ’ With White Rubber Soles > 7/6 >
w* ***•"»”■•*>
Men’s Boots with thick’Red Rubber Soles 14/. ■
No - 17 Catalogue contains details
of other kind. Send for a copy.
rubber CO., ltd
“ The House for ail Rubber Goods,”
270 Ceorge Street, Sydney,
ĥ
gAVE 20 H.P. IN EVERY IQQ H.P.
HYATT FLEXIBLE ROLLER BEARINGS.
Agents W, & J. LEMPRIere, Melbourne.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
ħ
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a truard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
DURBAR
lwthe L preserving boot polish.
SfSKK r N “ RSE « Y , RHYMES POST CARDS, Packet
*5 Cards antl Lar & e Tin DURBAR, POST FREE, OCI«
pi/RBAR POLISH CO.. 18 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
*
Just Whaf the Doctor Ondered
The
Family Stimulant.
The Beverage that
Benefits.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
NO MORE HOT BEARINGS if
Send for particulars to—
VICTORIA CALORICID is Used.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Ritt Street, Sydney, and A.Ni.P. Buildings, Brisbane.
& LACY CO.,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR
NORTON EMERY WHEEL COMPANY,
ft?
&
clTer
WORCESTER, MASS.
A Large Stock of Various Grades on Hand.
WRITE FOR PRICES
AND PARTICULARS.
w
The PICKERING (Registered) GOVERNOR
Suitable for all classes of STATIONARY and PORTABLE STEAM ENGIf S
including ENGINES for ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
and to replace uLaMrfMtor/oovernoTß* (?) “has rnnTnto'a “ d the n,lmber “ u ™ lied “d?®, for New Engine
Governor working snccessfnlly on Engine in ™ ths ***«*«
expressly for us by the PICKERING GOVERNOR Th* . G ' overilor 18 manufacture-1
GOVE G rNOB‘' S »o“ a a%oX the
worde “ The Pickering £££?£* t «««*- b ~ *•
SOLE AGENTS for N.S.W.— T . _
Large Stocks of all Styles always carried.
-.■/-I
: 1
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants.
STREET, SYDNEY.
ARD CO
TOR ADJUSTABLE DECK.
M;
.
"V.
sSpgP;
*• •..
This new Patent Two=Plane Deck is the greatest improvement made in
Concentrators for very many years. The Deck is so constructed that
the lower corner can be raised by the adjusting
screw, and as this is where most mineral is
lost, the immense advantage of this invention Is
obvious. Any desired result may be obtained.
Fuller information on application to
the Manufacturers,
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd..
Sydney and Melbourne.
