

A Word to the Wise is sufficient— 14
R. Q. WATK-IPTS «SC- GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _____
.SxxttJx &• <L<? sir
For Every Description
of
High-Class Machinery.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
... AND ...
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient jjote!
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING;
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
*
" Take it back,
I must
HUTTON
Pinc-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
'TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z,
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wante. I£3»
KILMARNOCK
WHISKY
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
ciK*G ■ • • • •
TELEPHONES
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “SILVERTOWN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch:
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
AL
m
COCOA 1
is the Queen of Jill Cocoas
I Aroma,StreogtKt'Purity:
E AST W AY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will Jo more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
c w „„„„ SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
Sole aLakers —
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
engineers,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
Also largest makers in Australia
HELIDON SPA WATER.
Sleep, quiet and refreshing, is induced I
by HELIDON SPA, I
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Yol. 29.—N0. 1467.]
[Thursday, March 26, 1308.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS
OF THE WEEK.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Warren, Thoughts on Business, Is 3d, post 3d.
Balfonr, lit. lion. A. Decadence, Is 9d, post 3d.
Hyriinson, History of the Jews, 5s 6d, postage Cd.
Searcy, In Australian Tropics, lllus., 12s (id, posted 9d.
George Ado, The Slim Princess, 3s 6d, postage f>d.
Kramer, Gayle Langford : a Novel, 3s (id, post Cd.
ufc,R^A.£:;ffisxK’S^ d p6d
& 6r f A ' ma " aC ’ 1908. Paper covertis 3d or
leather back and cloth sides. 3s. post aye (id.
NOW
READY
DAD m POLITICS,
A : N 11 OTHER STORIES, bv “STEELE Rimir „ ■
- with 26 illustrations bv 11. J Weston oloH, H ‘ I)avis )>
DAD IN POLITICS, and Other Stories 12illus bvH V\ poiita S e 6</ *
Ither Stories 14. Ulna hi-t-i t m - •bj I\V estOJl, Is., post 3d.
Or in two volumes, picr.u re wrapper j . ,
FOR LIFE, and Other Stories, 14 Ulus, by H. J.' Weston, ‘Vs^pistV*/.
DOUND THE WORLD,
" ® By an Australian Native.
64 pp., art paper, Bvo, 42 illustrations. Price ls<
“ An informative account of a bushman’s trip."—Tm
Bulletin.
Alexander Sutherland, m.a., his 14**
and Work, by HENBY GILES TURNER. A short
account of Alexander Sutherland as Man, Schoolmaster,
and Scientist. Neat booklet of 38 pages, art cover. IS*
THOMAS C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., MhtROURNt
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, I.vFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bacterieidallv as is creosote.”
m
/
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6
C. HUDSON, Manufacturing' Chemist, 5& 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney. A]
States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, I
encies in all the Australian
ndon.
The RED PAGE
Bohemia in London
BOHEMIA is Youth. Youth is
everywhere. It is bounded on
the North and East by the barren
desert of Middle Age, and on the South
and West by the steep and impassable
mountains of Success. So though Murger
tried to localise itin Montmartre, Bohemia
exists everywhere where there is youth
and hope and impecuniosity. Bohemia is
in London, in Sydney; though here
as there, there exists some misappre
hensions as to the qualifications for
citizenship. The true Bohemian is drunk
on nothing but ambitions and ideals, anc
though these leave no headache, they
frequently leave an emptiness of the
stomach. The true Bohemian has an
appetite the morning after, but there is
often no breakfast.
So Arthur ltansome has discoverec
Bohemia in London (Chapman and Hall
per Dymock’s Library), and to his chatty
description of that kingdom Fred Taylor
has appended some charming illustra
tidns. But London is too unwieldy to
have a Quartier, though there are a few
obvious grouping points—the taverns o;
Fleet Street, the lodgings of Bloomsbury
the bookshops of Charing Cross Road, the
restaurants of Soho, the studios o:
Chelsea.
Ransome discourses with zest of these
townships of the impecunious with ideals
And he tells good stories, for good stories
are the chief output of that country.
\l/
There is a story in Fleet Street now abou
a little paper devoted to mild reform—vege
tarianism, no cruelty to dogs, anti-vaccina
tionism, and the like-—whose editor
managed to keep the paper anc
himself alive on subsidies from re
ligious faddists. From his office at the
end of an alley he could see his visitors
before they arrived, and when he saw
likely victim in some black-coated righteous
old gentleman, he opened a Bible and laid it
on his desk. Then he knelt down at his
chair. When the old gentleman had climbec
the stairs, and had inquired for him of the
office-boy, he heard from the inner room a
solemn, earnest voice : “ O Lord, soften
Thou the heart of some rich man, that of his
plenty he may give us the wherewithal to carry
on the good work that this small paper does in
Thy name.” . . . The visitor would lift a finger
to the boy. 4 ‘Hush ! ” he would say ; ‘‘ your
master is a good man,” and presently going
in, when the prayer was ended, would write
out a cheque at least as liberal as it was ill-
deserved.
The Jonquil was edited by a man called
Beldens, who had a little money, but not
much. He contrived to retain his writers by
a most ingenious appeal to their gambling
instincts. Every Saturday all the cheques
were accurately made out and delivered to
the contributors. But these soon found that
there was never more money in the bank
than would pay the first three or four of the
cheques presented. The rest were returned
dishonored. The result was not unamusing,
for Beldens had chosen a bank in Fulham,
while his office was in Covent Garden.
Every Saturday at the appointed time all the
contributors used to attend with hansoms,
specially chosen for the fleetness of their
horses, waiting in a row outside. Beldens
would come, smiling and urbane, into the
outer office, with the bundles of little pink
slips. As soon as they had been passed
round there would be a wild scuffle of genius
on the stairs, the dishevelled staffs would
rush out of the door, leap into their han-
soms, and race pell-mell for the bank, the
fortunate first-arrivals dividing with their
cabbies the moneys that their respective
efficiencies had achieved.
I — 4 . ♦
Beatrice Grimshaw’s In the Strange South
Seas (Hutchinson, per Sydney Book Club) is
a gossipy account of Tahiti, Samoa, Tonga,
and Maoriland—a companion volume to the
author’s From Fiji to the Oannibal Islands.
The present work is clever journalism, use-
ful as an impression of the Pacific, and
written chiefly for the stay-at-home English-
man, to soothe whose ignorant apprehensions
it is necessary for the author expressly to
state that cannibalism has been extinct for
at least two generations in all the principal
groups of the Central, Eastern, and Southern
Pacific, and that there are even hotels to be
found in most of the islands. The illustra-
tions are excellent.
More About Mars
'TVT ATURALLY, Percival Lowell’s theory
that there is sentient life in Mar
has caused pain to Alfred Russe
Wallace. Wallace was the co-discoverer wit]
Darwin of the theory of evolution; but in
his old age he has shown signs of old age
Recently he put forth a treatise, Man’s Plac
in the Universe , which.aimed to show that ii
all the width of space the Earth was the only
planet that was inhabited or inhabitable b;
sentient beings. He elaborately argued tha
the earth occupied a position exactly in the
centre of the galactic universe ; and helc
that only in this favorable situation did the
conditions obtain that could result ii
the existence of life. Of course, the
scientific world hurled itself upon this
absurd theory, and tore it to fragments
by calling attention to some facts. If the
earth were now in the centre of the universe
then a few millions of years ago it certainly
was pretty far from the centre ; and it has
taken more than a few millions of years foi
life to have arrived at the incomplete stage
exemplified by Man. And in a few more
millions of years the solar system will have
drifted far past the centre of the galactic
system. Besides, the recent astronomical
discovery that the- present galaxy is made uj
of two separate star streams impinging upoi
or impenetrating each other makes the
centre of these two visible universes a quite
unknown and constantly changing position
Further, the scientific probabilities are al
against such an anthropological view of tin
cosmos. Is it conceivable that these two
star-streams should take all the trouble to
Collide in order to produce upon a minor
planet of a derelict minor star a dissatisfiec
and incomplete thinking machine whose
highest ambition is to get into the Austra-
lian Eleven ? Somehow, we must have
better opinion of the business instincts of
the Creator.
W
The magnitude of the shock to Wallace by
Lowell’s postulating life on our neighbor
Mars has called forth a rejoinder entitled
Is Mars Inhabitable ? (Macmillan), wherein
Wallace attacks the weak points in Lowell’s
formidable theory, without, however, giving
a convincing indication of *an alternate
theory. Wallace unreservedly accepts the
substantial accuracy of the whole series oj
Lowell’s telescopic observations ; but he
finds that the phenomena of the canals bear
the unmistakable impress of being due to
natural forces, while they are wholly unin-
telligible as artificial productions. “Only
if the whole surface of Mars is an
almost perfect level could the enormous
network of straight canals have been
possibly constructed by intelligent beings
for purposes of irrigation ; but if a complete
and universal level surface exists no such
system would be necessary.” For Mars,
like Canberra, undoubtedly possesses a very
scanty water-supply, derived, in the case of
the planet, from the melting of the polar
snow-cap. And “ any attempt to make that
scanty surplus, by means of overflowing
canals, travel across the equator into the
opposite hemisphere, through such a terrible
desert region and exposed to such a cloudless
sky as Mr. Lowell describes, would be the
work of a body of madmen rather than of
intelligent beings. It may be safely asserted
that not one drop of water could escape eva-
poration or insoak at even a hundred miles
from its source.”
Wallace even doubts the existence of water
at all on the planet, and ridicules Lowell’s be-
lief that the blue band that is seen at the
edge of the melting polar cap is water. Deep
water is blue, but shallow water by re-
flected light is not so ; and the' alleged
water on Mars must be as shallow and
turbid as Cotter Creek. Wallace also uses
the molecular theory of gases to show that
water vapor cannot exist on Mars, as, owino
to its small mass, it is unable to retain the
molecules by gravitation, just as the earth
has to let the rapid molecules composing free
hydrogen escape from its atmosphere. And
the absence of water is, in our present state
of knowledge, practically conclusive against
the exrstence of animal life. As to the
temperature of Mars, Wallace’s criticism
seems to rndreate that so far we have no
certarn knowledge of the conditions that
determrne temperature upon planets. Mars
may have the average temperature of Eng-
land, as Lowell claims, or it may be far
belovv freezing-point, as Prof. Poynting
asserts. Wallace suggests that in Mars
the conditions are all unfavorable to the
conservation, and favorable to the dissi-
pation of the scanty heat it receives
from the sun. Lowell claims the contrary
conditions. We must wait—that is all.
vl/
But, even granting that life is possible on
Mars, and admitting the validity of Lowell’s
observations of the canals, Wallace advances
a theory to account for those extraordinary
markings He claims that the attractive
force of Ma,rs, whose mass is only one-
twelfth of that of the earth, would never
have liquefied or even permanently heated
the more central portions of its globe, and
thus its structure is quite unlike that of the
core-heated earth. And owing to the absence
of rain and rivers, there would be no
denudation ; and consequently, save for
atmospheric erosion, the surface of Mars
would be remarkably uniform. This might
account for the geometrical regularity of the
“canals” of Mars, which Wallace suggest
are mere surface fissures radiating fron
craterlets, resulting from a planet, heated a 1
its surface (owing to the impact of a swarm
of meteorites) contracting regularly upon
previously cold nucleus. But the doubl
canals seem to upset this pretty theory, ant
Wallace has no suggestion to make as t<
their origin.
However, in his turn, Wallace throw
doubts upon Lowell’s theory of intelli
gent life by asking how the Martian
could have lived before this great systen
of irrigation was planned and executed
“How, with such a desert as he describe
three-fourths of Mars to be, did the inhabi
tants (necessarily confined to the waters o:
the polar caps) ever get to know anything o:
the equatorial regions and its needs, so as to
start right away to supply those needs ? . .
He also fails to consider the difficulty that
if these canals are necessary for existence
in Mars, how did the inhabitants ever read
a sufficiently large population with surplus
food and leisure, enabling them to rise fron
a low condition of savages to one of civilisa
tion. Only a dense population with ample
means of subsistence could possibly have
constructed such gigantic works.”
\V
But Lowell has a satisfactory answer to
this carping. He makes fairly probable the
assumption that Mars is no longer in its firs 1
youth, as the earth undoubtedly is. Mars
being the smaller planet, has cooled much
more rapidly than the earth, and is now in
the last stages of planetary decrepitude. In
its healthy maturity Mars would have hac
abundant water to nourish a vast popula-
tion ; and what we now see is a highly-
civilised community making tremendous
efforts to keep alive on a withered anc
freezing planet. Also, Wallace is scarcely
to the point in his complaint that “Mr.
Lowell never even refers to the important
question of loss by evaporation in these
enormous open canals, or considers the
important fact that the only intelligent and
practical way to convey a limited quantity
of water such great distances would be by
system of water-tight and air-tight tubes
laid under the ground.”
There is no reason at all why the canals
could not be pipe-lines, since it is not the
canals but the belts of irrigated vegetation
which are seen. Lowell nowhere states that
he has viewed a canal, for at certain seasons
they become invisible, showing up again
when the belts of vegetation upon their
banks (or around the pipe-lines) begin to
grow.
But on this point Professor Pickering, of
Harvard, argues in a recent Harper s that
the amount of power necessary to pump suf-
ficient water for this immense irrigation
scheme must be enormous. Assuming a
Martian civilisation, Pickering points out
that the markings might be produced arti-
ricially by predicating that the surface was
once covered by some form of bush or tree,
which has been destroyed, except belts which
have been left standing for the purpose of
shelter. He publishes peculiar photographs
of country in the Azores, where the in-
habitants have left similar belts of vegeta-
tion standing for shelter for sheep. He
inclines to the theory, however, that the
canals are volcanic cracks made visible by
the presence of vegetation within them ; but
Lowell’s account of the regular periodicity
of visibility—the advance of the growth
toward the equator, only explicable on the
theory of the flow of water—invalidates that
suggestion.
V
On the larger question of life elsewhere in
the universe, however, the immense proba-
bility is that life everywhere exists or is
trying to exist; and, given even the remote
chance of sentient life on our nearest plane-
tary neighbor, the presumption should be
that life exists—until it is proved not to be
capable of existing. Meantime,’ we must
just wait for better instruments to observe
the evidences of that presumed life.
—-—
Art and Architecture (Jan.-Feb.) contains
a well-illustrated appreciation of Fred.
Leist, by I). H. Souter, and, among the
technical articles, a plea for color in archi-
tecture, called forth by the fact that a
Doulton-tile office frontage in glowing colors
has made its appearance, in Clarence-street,
Sydney. (Published by W. Brooks, Sydney).
OUT OF EDEN.
Eastward o’er Eden the day’s glory fades
Up from the gulf tremendous night invades
Solemn and terrible, as stormy-browed ’
As the Archangel wheeled him, wrapped in cloud
God’s sentence passed. Qa >
And westward o’er the red-rimmed hills the sun
Scowls lurid on us and the time begun •
Slow moving fires show forth their gleamin
guard
And over Paradise a shining sword :
One look, the last.
O happy Paradise ! The tiger leapt
Light over us, where we the sounder slept
For that striped flash that mingled with ou I
dreams ;
Now his barred eye with yellow menace gleams '
Till the spine creeps.
Now my two hands must fence us from our foes !
That loved us once. • See where that gray wolf i
goes,
Pad, pad, among the shadows; yet this stone
May keep his snuffing from us. Is he gone?
God, but he leaps !
One leap too many. Ay, and would’st thon 'i
spring,
Thy jaws vet red with some poor helpless thing
Murdered, upon thy master and his mate? 8
Why Eve, we are not yet disconsolate,
Be not so sad.
For by the might within my ribbed arm : e§.
We yet may prosper and sleep sound and warm
Wrapped soft in wolfskin. Nay, why ween'st
thou yet?
Thou poor crushed beast that could so soon
forget
The friend thou’st had ;
So soon, so soon ! Forgotten like the day '
That in the night-time seems so far away,
And hate with edged jaws bites doubly fierce
From friendship fallen. Those star-sparks that
pierce
The hollow dark
That from their little light looms blacker yet
Above us and about us heavily set.
And brimmed with instant peril; even such light
Shall yet defend us from the grisly night,
And be our mark
Of something set beyond us, to be won
In spite of pain and darkness ; now, alone ,;j
Shall we draw strength from struggle, power from
pow er.
And on embattled Face drive hour by hour
Some outpost home.
Eve, shall we triumph yet ? O dimming star,
The gates of other Edens may unbar.
Farewell, thou peaceful glade of quiet dreams ;
Meat for a man this quivering wolfsflesh steams,
Take it, and come !
jst.s. w.
H. M. Green,
The Average Novel
HVT OTHING very remarkable and no-
thing very lamentable is to be ex-
pected from Alfred Buchanan, the
Melbourne journalist, who has two novels to
his name, beside The Real Australia, which
was rather unnecessary. His latest novel,
She Loved, Much (Unwin) has all the marks
of the mediocre. It conforms to the usual
formula of two women and two men, mathe-
matically contrasted in temperament; it has
the usual plot in which the muscles of* co-
incidence’s long hairy arm get plenty of exer-
cise ; and it deals with journalistic and
theatrical London with the inevitable excur-
sion to Italy. All the characters are cap-
ably described —from the outside : none
of them really lives. Buchanan has
written a mere story ; and there
are hundreds of novels of the same
mediocre type pi’odueed and read every
year; and, except that presumably Buchanan
gets something out of it, there seems no
reason at all why it ever should have been
written. Yet Buchanan has learnt the tricks
of the trade. He begins with a sentimental
title, and rattles on to a pathetic arid
useful death ; but he has carefully omitted
the psychology of his chief character,
an emotional actress. The mind—if any—
of an emotional actress should be worth dis-
secting. But the average reader does not
require psychology; and to the average
reader this average novel can be cordially
commended. F 3.
A Sydney correspondent of the New York
Nation claims that G. E. Evans has suc-
ceeded Brunton Stephens as the poet
laureate of Australia. So far, the office
laurel wreath (it’s an unbreakable, though
battered, wreath made of tin and painted
green) is still hanging idly on its rusty nail.
At present it hangs above the sporting
editor’s desk, owing to the startling rumor
that he has had a poem accepted by the
editor. Few claimants have come along so
far, and most of them hand it back in ex-
change for thruppence. When the thrup-
pence is not forthcoming they throw it back.
That is why it is so bent.


New Blouses and Stylish Shirts
at the ...
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM.
Offered at Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
• • •
Seasonable and Stylish
BLOUSES AND JERSEYS
No. 4271—KNITTED GOLF JERSEYS, Self-
colors ; Black, Cream, Navy, Cardinal and
Black and White, 10/6.
No. 4336-ALL WOOL KNITTED GOLF
JERSEYS, Navy, Cream, Cardinal, and
Cream with Red, Green, or Tartan Collar and
Cuffs, 12/6.
No. 27-ALL WOOL KNITTED GOLF
JERSEY, Cream, Cardinal, Black, 6/6.
No. 1064-ALL WOOL UNSHRINKABLE
CASHMERE JERSEY, Cream, Black,
Navy, 12/6.
No. 4132—F ANCY FLANNELETTE
BLOUSE, all Winter Colors, and Black and
White ; fasten in front, 4/9.
No. 119-BLACK SATEEN BLOUSE, fasten
in front; sizes S.W., W., 0.5., and Extra
0.5., 6/9.
No. 964.-PLAIN TUCKED CASHMERE
BLOUSE, fasten in front, long sleeves;
Black, Navy, Cardinal, Cream, 8/6.
No. 406—SMART VELVETEEN BLOUSE,
Black, Navy, Brown, Wine, Green—best
quality, 15/9 ; second quality, 12/9.
No. 1032-HAND EMBROIDERED CASH-
MERE BLOUSE, Pink, Sky, Navy. Cream,
Black ; fasten in front; sizes, S.W., W. and
0.5., 11/6.
No. 3300— FRENCH FLANNEL BLOUSES,
all Colors, Stripes and Fancy Patterns ; fasten
in front, 8/9
r
4132
G
CfOLjetJ and
sloisiStsk$ loi 5iSt$k
n
-’7 .
4271
**r t * r tP-i
/ Anthony }
-
2
Bopp
7 ,*'
/ m v
£
,-< ?/
- r-j
I. /
7(9^
?6>6>
•tzf .
era rnon $
GZjozD
&ricej
PERFECTLY-FITTING SKIRTS, typical of many others, illustrated in our Autumn Fashion Portfolio.
r
C/Yov elites
in
1105
rfyJHacfe
ca
&
i r
oo
at
Anthony Horderns’
C/amotij zo <lr ic e<j
75
7379
:r
*OO
850
SMART SKIRTS
We offer an unrivalled variety of Smart,
Ready-to-wear Skirts, stylishly cut, and well
finished. Our enormous assortment of sizes
enables us to ensure a perfect fit.
NO. 1105—13-GORE TAILOR-MADE SKIRT;
length, 38in. to 44in. ; waist, 23in. to 27in. —
New Dark Winter Tweed, 22/6; Black or
Navy Cheviot Serge, 23/6 ; Black or Navy
Sicilian or Serge, 21/-
No. 7379 WARM WINTER CHEVIOT
SERGE SKIRT; length, 38in. to 44in. ;
waist, 23in. to 27in. —Black or Navy, 8/9 ;
other sizes, 1/6 extra.
No. 610/2 PERFECT-FITTING SKIRT,
trimmed Self Strappings, length, 38in. to
44in. ; waist, 23in. to 27in. —Black and Navy
Cloth, 23/6 ; Black or Navy Sicilian, 25/-
No. 575—STYLISH BLACK SICILIAN
SKIRT; length, 38in. to 44in. ; waist, 23in.
to 27in., 21/6; Other sizes to order— 2/6
extra.
No. 1000 - BLACK STRIPE SICILIAN
SKIRT ; length, 38in. to 44in. ; waist, 23in.
to 27in., 35/- Other sizes to Order, 2/6
extra.
No. 850 STYLISH PERFECT-FITTING
BLACK SICILIAN SKIRT; length, 38in.
to 44in. ; waist, 23in. to 27in., 31/6. Other
sizes, 2/6 extra.
No. 400 PERFECT-FITTING PLEATED
SKIRT; length, 38in. to 44in. ; waist, 23in.
to 27in. —Navy Panama, 25/6 ; Black or
Navy Serge, 25/6, 30/- ; Other sizes 2/6
extra.
Send for our Autumn and Winter Fashion Portfolio, illustrating the latest London
and Paris Models. We post a COPY FREE ON APPLICATION.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
1
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


übiit
and other
SKINS;
Also BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send *
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FATjind STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
j.o; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, is;
postl/S. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/-; post 1/3. Manning’s
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions. Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwivbs’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins,ls. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Mf.rrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
t®*"” AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
4-B
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a ire inline FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to out a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods maybe appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, Sr.c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. It costs nothiugto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and.send
instructions and we will
great offer is only open f<
Write at once.
you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
jr a limited time,
THE GCTTA PEBCHA TRADING CO., 120 Ash St„ Sydney.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Freel
f
2-ft. High.
fl LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR PL BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks,brown eyes, and represented with flesh-coloured body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work'ng parts are of bestmateriah rapid m its and
cctu ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WATCH
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
US at pvi _
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money to/*, and we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU.
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains. Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent wi h the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds. .. .
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Boy's Riffe.
CB
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
CB
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are
rapidly causing ordinary
types to become things
of the past.
In 50
different
styles.
Any and every
figure can be
made straight-
fronted by C.B.
Tailor-Made
Corsets.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are
the elixir of elegance,
smartness, refined dis-
tinction and comfort.
Light as air, yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
C.B. Tailor-Made
Corsets are an
insurance policy
on smart and
stylish dressing.
*•>
All C.B. Corsets have rust-proof supports
From 8/11 to 1 Guineas per pair.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type as
far ahead of all other straight-fronted corsets as latter are in advance of
the old woven corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
16 Barrack Btreet, SYDNEY" and BRISBAN
WMCHESTER
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
X
V
Here
is the Hub
of Many Merits,
A ! SsSrSs
this respect.
every cyclist
JUlties On hnf.Vi oi « n ...
. them"all—dispel^the'toil 0 of th« 6 f he . hill — this will overcome '\
„ the*dangers of thedow„w , I f^° no ?, 8 climb * a . nd a ‘ the same
cycling pleasure you should write f rt l^ yOU - w 2 ul<i enhance y° ul *
-and “ Ce f ? r descriptive booklet-study it
_ ana then specify the
EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER
y ° ur new n your old -
BIRMINGHAM R SMALL r Arms' l i n^
Buildings, Melbourne."


“ For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
4i
m
\k
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
Mger’s
'Gherrif 9eetoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought, of us. Your
--vay UUUgUI. UI US. I OUT
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year?, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
MODE S La £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to anv port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
wanted in each district.
- . . _ . Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and nur *</ec>oi o/rer on sample machine. ° "
MEAD CYCLE CO a , I)ept. 280 Liverpodm
ACTIVE_ AGENTS
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
CDe Society of
Motor Manufacturers
and Craders, £td.
For the protection, encouragement ana
development of the A utomobile Industry.
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
which will be pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
Traders who can best supply
their needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure),
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationary Motors,Component
Parts, Tyres, or Accessories.
Address ;
Maxwell House, Arundel St,
London, England.
Bronchitis in
Children
32 Edward St.,
nth, 1906. “My son. Sid 5b not
greatly from bronchitis -f n “ roXT -s
improve. When I gavbecame less
Emulsion the attack . eare d
S> com-
“tM*j FLORENCE HALEY
E REASON WHY THE
TACKS DISAPPEARED
£t 'The tine Lofoten oil
» 1 ?V e IS-n , S"
s s rh. b .w c sr.»%.
and nourished the
system- No oto en,*
3d “.. done .to-
Always get die
SCOTT’S
emulsion
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Me
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNINGTON’S
mm
IRISH MOSS
sss
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Mlfc BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
t nV th iably ® hown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. A wmeglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.
Rote the name “ Hunyadi Janos,’
AHDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the
of the Label.
’ the signature of the Proprietor,
Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
By Appointment to
H.M. The King
and
H.R.H. The Prince
of Wales.
By appointment to
H.M. The King op
Spain and
H.M. The King of
Portugal.
iff
SALT
“The
substances
'THE LANCET” of March 16th, 1907, says:—
definite proportion of phosphates in CEREBOS SALT adds
of DISTINCT DIETETIC IMPORTANCE.”
Agents—Harrison Attwood, Sydney.
A. ®> F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotiee
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that, imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495*7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
LtA
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Irish Song.
Would I were a white duck, to ease me of mv
pain, J
I d swim across the water to France or to Spain.
Why, indeed, in Ireland longer abide,
Where every holy tide is a bitter, hungry tide ?
Bare lies the platter, empty stands the cup,
No board to feast at, no wine to sup,
No sound of music, no witching dance,
Hungry I wander, a son of mischance.
Would I were an old crow to ease me of my pain,
On a bough I’d perch me, looking for the grain—
Oat-grain, wheat-grain, all one to me,
Or a white potato dropt beneath my tree.
Would I were a red fox to ease me of my pain,
Leaping strong and swift over mountain and
plain,
Tithing the farmyard, ruthless and gay,
Lightfoot, nimble, bearing off the prey.
Would I were a salmon to ease me of my pain,
I’d cleave the waters rushing to the main ;
I d catch the mayfly for all my silver gleam,
Swimming my strongest, or swimming with the
stream.
Ah, but a songman am I—hence my pain.
Better be a rock in the frost and the rain ;
A stone, or an herb, or a flower, or a tree.
Or anything on earth but the thing that I be !
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
Before the Dusk.
Singeth the river, onward flowing
Ever away, like the sun-trail glowing
Out of the afternoon ;
Hazy the clouds on the ranges hover,
Fleeing away ere the day is over—
Dusk will be falling soon.
Grey old gums by the gully bending,
Know you, too, that the day is ending—•
Gums that so weirdly croon—
Sighing still when the stars are shining
Out of a world there is no divining ?
Dusk will be falling soon.
Ah, love, always our thoughts go straying
Like to the breeze when the ferns, waylaying,
Smother and steal its tune ;
Back to the past with old years enfolden,
Till, o’er our lives in a sunset golden,
Dusk will be falling soon.
MAORILAND.
TE AROHA.
The Wisdom of the Conventions.
I look within and see a drooping hand
Trailing a spray of lilies in the dust;
And eyes grown meek, once wont to gay command,
I see Youth’s glorious guile allowed to rust.
I seem to know the sadness in those eyes,
The patient sorrow of that empty heart
Les convenances learnt—the maid grown wise,
And so the maid and lilies needs must part.
And then I see her as the world must see
Her quiet, dull eyes, that know no more
romance.
That damned, indecent beast, Propriety!
It kills a woman when it gets the chance !
N.S.W.
HELEN JEROME.
Villanelle.
The sea our secret whispers to the moon.
And all the air grows luminous and bright—
Ah, love ! that I must part from thee so soon !
While that the wind doth wail a fitful rune,
And while the stars stare coldly from their height,
The sea our secret whispers to the moon.
To-night we listen to the sea’s wan croon,
At dawn I seek forgetfulness in flight—
Ah, love ! that I must part from thee so soon !
You will be wedded at the coming noon—
Another’s bride; but you are mine to-night—
The sea our secret whispers to the moon.
Come closer yet, and take Love’s precious boon
Of kisses—burning kisses of delight—
Ah, love ! that I must part from thee so soon !
To-night we lie with throbbing hearts atune ;
To-morrow he will claim you as a right.
The sea our secret whispers to the moon.
My face is tangled in thy hair outstrewn ;
My straining arms are clasped about thee tight.
Ah, love ! that I must part from thee so soon.
The moon hangs motionless with pointed shoon.
My heart ! One long, last kiss ! Good-night !
Good night !
The sea our secret whispers to the moon.
Ah, love ! that I must part from thee so soon.
VIC.
SLOWHEART.
My Luck.
My luck’s a beast of many moods,
Not certain for a single day,
That so upon my peace intrudes
I’d like to give the thing away.
It shows what selfless thoughts I nurse;
For, though my luck is mostly bad,
At times, when it was rather worse,
It’s been the only thing I had.
I’ve tried to drown my luck in beer,
But when the night was nearly spent,
It led me to a watch-house near,
And bit a bobby as we went.
But there’s a consolation still
That half my heart doth satisfy :
My luck at present is so ill,
I’ve powerful hopes that it will die.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


WUNDERLICH
ART M
<Serid for our ‘Booklet “Beautiful Homos ",
post free, on application.
SYDNEY,
56
Pitt St.
OER
48
MELBOURNE
123
Queen St
The New F rag rant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
# w *,.
Tobacco
® Manufactured in I
Richmond Virginia. 1
® bj-Lards C?;;'
Racked hy RTowr«s * Co. Agenfs.Sydney. '-L
1
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot get
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Tpwns & Co.,Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile 'reduced) of Soz. tin.
■ H
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
%
dr
V
o
c
*
a
fore
CADBURY’S COCOA
is the idea.l beverage because it is rich
in strength - imparting essentials and there-
promotes physical endurance and hardihood.
TEN YEAR* PUBLIC USE HAS PROVED THAT
o*i*
S* EVER FAILS.
HEAD OFFICE-MUTUAILIFE
Buildino.martin Place. Sydney.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
r '
Of all Dealers
for
comfort
aw h ee I
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
r Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superband marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better" Terms than
elsewhere in Australia. ,
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
NEW Ciub Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN,. U. S. A.
TXAf. C
NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES
m
-
tm
m
■
■ . ■■ .
"
' ;
.
r
■■
■
■
■ .. *
%
■-
.. ** >
IS
Bi
H
33*3
'
r«5
SSS
m
m
m
m
m
■
SRICOHEB
THE ROOFING
ON WHICH THE
SUN NEVER SETS
E. RICH ® 6L T . D .
SYDMEY AND
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1467.
THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 1908.
Prick 6d
THE ATTACK ON THE BASE.
LABOR ( considering Mr . Wade) : “NOW, I WONDER WHAT THE LITTLE MAN THINKS HE’S GOING TO DO."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper♦
“Australia for the A astral fa as.”
Printed and Published bv William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tiik Bulletin Ofiice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you evert/ week for a i/ear.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tube addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Ilotv to Address letters.
Correspondents to Tiib Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Busitiess letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are. liable to he refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 woris, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps arc. enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A matears in flinch aml white.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for• direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, IF. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Aaency, Capetown;
The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancocver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San FRANCisct).— W. E. fir ding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6f in. x Hein.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 1908.
THE CITY OF THE VIOLET CROWN
AND THE CITY OF THE PERISHED
GRASSHOPPER.
In point of population, New South Wales at
present stands for more than one-third of the Com-
monwealth. Probably it will stand for a good third
of the Commonwealth for a long while to come.
Therefore, of the Federal Capital and the Federal
territory, they being the common property of
Australia and Tasmania, one-third will belong to
New South Wales. If the capital is situated
where there is a fine climate, a good water-supply,
abundant water-power for manufacturing pur-
poses, afair amount of elbow-room, and all theother
essentials which help to make a great city, New
South Wales’ share of the joint property may easily
grow to be worth some £33,000,000 —in other words,
the city and territory may have about the present
cash value of Sydney. If the Federal territory is a
mere scrap of barren country, withoutwater power,
without a decent drinking supply, without a sea
outlet—a place devoid of hope and lingering on
the road to nowhere —the value of the whole outfit
may be worth less than £1,000,000 —in other
words, it may be just such a place as Goulburn,
which is worth rather under £1,000,000, body,
bones and all. In that case, State Premier Wade
and his State Frights will have done Australia out
of nearly £99,000,000, and, incidentally, will have
done New South Wales out of nearly £33,000,000.
And there will be nothing—absolutely nothing—
to set down on the other side of the account.
Australia will be minus a new population centre
worth about £100,000,000, but it doesn’t follow
that its old centres will be worth a penny
more or have an inhabitant the more by
reason of the loss. If the news went
forth that Australia was founding an Ideal
City beside the Snowy River —nearly 300
miles from Sydney and 350 or so from Mel-
bourne, and an immense distance from Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Hobart and Perth—the advertise-
ment would almost certainly help along immigra-
tion, but there is no reason to suppose that it
would deplete Sydney or Melbourne. On the
other hand, if the news went out that Australia
was constructing a hopeless hamlet on the dry
plains of God-forgotten, the advertisement would
certainly not give a boost to immigration, but it
doesn’t follow that Sydney or Melbourne would
grow any larger by reason of the Federal hamlet’s
obscurity. The building of a new capital in a place
where extensive growth and prosperity are possible
is the art of making great wealth out of things of
no value —not the art of shifting wealth that exists
already. The land which was worth next to
nothing per acre becomes worth a bag of money
per foot. The rock, which was merely something
for a cow to stumble over that it might break its
belated neck, becomes another Equitable building,
or G.P.0., or Hordern’s emporium. The water
which was only so much moving liquid with
possible fish in it becomes an asset equal, in the
supply of force, to all the coal mines of Newcastle,
and of the same value, also of greater permanency.
All these things are worth millions and tens of
millions; and Australia is asked to throw away
all these tens of millions because Wade —a mere
political and cantankerous accident—requires ad-
vertisement to keep his accidental and can-
tankerous Government afloat.
* * * •
The theory that the Australian capital must
be placed where the natural disadvantages will
keep it poor and mean, lest it should overshadow
some existing State centre, is a thousand times
THE SNOWY RIVER.
Above the selected Federal Capital at Dalgety.
Photo, by Kerry & Co., 308 George-street, Sydney.
more foolish than the parrot cry of the dunder-
headed Roman who wanted Carthage—glorious
Carthage—to be destroyed. That old vandal had
at least this excuse —if he wanted to make the
earth poorer, he proposed to make it poorer by
the loss of a hostile city. Wade and his following,
on the other hand, want to make their own
country poorer by the loss of a friendly city—
their own Ideal City. They are in politics
the slayers of the unborn. They rank, politi-
cally, and, of course, in a strictly figurative
way, with Menahem, King of Israel, of
whom unpleasant things are said in 11. Kings,
chapter 15, verse 16. It is only once in a long
while that men have a chance nowadays to go
out and build a capital; the making of capi-
tals is a rare thing, and new cities mostly
happen informally rather than by fixed purpose.
And now that the opportunity is here there are
alleged men—likewise insects and such-like—who
demand that Australia shall only go forth and
build a sort of kraal, or village, or humpy, or dog-
kennel, or mud settlement, andbethesubjectofthe
world’s laughter. The mind that is mud naturally
turns to the capital that is built of the same
material. Besides, it is held in some unfathom-
able way that the dignity of the State of New
South Wales will be enhanced if it owns one-
third of a dead hamlet on a dry plain at Canberra,
instead of one-third of a glittering city, planted
TWOFOLD BAY, THE PORT OF DALGETY, THE SELECTED
CAPITAL OF AUSTRALIA.
beside a great river, backed by towering ramparts
of snow, and with a splendid port at its feet.
These are the natural ideas and doctrines of the
men whose minds are plain ordinary mud.
» * « *
When the capital question comes up again in
concrete form, the matter of the area will doubt-
less be fought out to the bitter end once more.
The present inadequate suggestion, denounced
with frenzy by the parish-minded clan as ridicu-
lous excess, is that the Commonwealth shall take
over 900 square miles of fairly good country.
That will leave most of the water catchment area
of the new capital in the hands of the State, and
if it includes a Federal port at Twofold Bay, the
port can only be connected with the rest of the
Federal territory by a strip of land just wide
enough for a road and a railway. The parish-
minded clan, by way of making worse what is
already bad, proposes 200 square miles in a dry
region, with no port, with the water supply of
the Federal city wholly in State territory, with
such drinking supply as Wade chooses to allow,
and with such access to the outer voi Id by ‘ g
and railway as Wade sees fit to conced . e a
sake of the unbuilt city which should o 'v jj
glory to Australia, all good Australians should
refuse to even listen to the proposals.of thepaA
minded clan, should reject the.
promise of 900 square miles, and slum
an area of at least 5000 square miles, covering ail tne
head-waters of the Snowy River on one a L re
the port of Twofold Bay on the other. * hen there
would be a Federal railway extending
the coast, and commerce would gather the , <
Australia —which is ourselves-would be the
richer by another great port as well as Y
great city. Then, too, the New South Wales ter
ritory of Eastern Riverina would begin to boom
by reason of the new economy in freight to
the sea-coast, and there would presently be a
stirring of the dry bones at Gundagai, and a
waking of the buried skeleton at Bongalong and
as far out as Tumbarumba and Goodradigbee, a
even the fleshless remnant at Mullengandra migh
be resurrected and live again.
There is nothing even dindy approaching
extravagance in the suggestion that 5000 square
miles of New South Wales soil should be handed
over to the Commonwealth as a Federal Territory.
Considered as a mere matter of detail, the pro-
posal is quite small and harmless. Here are some
at least of the figures :
Present area of N.S.W. .. .. .. 310,700 sq. miles.
Proposed cession to Commonwealth .. 5,000 ~
N.S.W. after this cession .. .. 305,700 ~
Add N.S.W.’s one-third interest in the
Federal Territory .. .. .. 1,666 „
Leaving to N.S.W. as a net result .. 307,366 ~
So the actual sacrifice would be 3334 square miles,
or about 1 per cent, of the State s area (N.S.W.,
by the way, once threw back to the British
Government over 500,000 square miles of
territory simply because it was tired).
And on the nominally lost area the New South
Wales citizen would be just as free as he is now,
and wouldn’t notice any difference through the
cession. He could go to the alleged lost territory
when he liked and come away when he liked. He
could live there permanently if he liked. He
would pay no extra taxes for going there ; he
wouldn’t need to carry a passport; he would be
bailed up by no foreign policeman; he wouldn’t
be tick-inspected at the border ; he would breathe
the same air, and be under almost exactly the
same laws, and hear the same language and buy
the same penny papers. The wholly invisible
difference would be that, at a certain point on the
road, he would cease to have poured upon him the
blessing of being under Gregory Wade Manv
other communities have also to do without being
under Gregory; Wade, and they get on somehow
In fact, N.S.W. did without that blessing itself
for quite a long time, and unless the end of the
world is nearer than it looks, or Wade is more
immortal than he appears, it will have to
do so again. To Gregory Wade it mav
possibly appear a horrible thing that a plodder
wUh Matilda on his bade should cease to be
under the rule of Gregory Wade as soon as he
passes this tree on the road, when, by the sacrifice
of all the best interests of Australia, things might
be so arranged that he would enjoy the happiness of
being under Gregory Wade till he passed the
other tree some distance ahead. But then it is
just possible that Gregory Wade over-rates the
blessings and ad vantages of being under Gregory
Wade. Many W ades do that sort of thing.
Tn propounding the theory that 5000 S q Maj .„
miles is the minimum required far the purposes
of a Federal capital this papey was g.uideA
by the example .of Sydney. Sydney hegiil
86 jniles away south-westerly from its own
main railway station ■ that is to say
water supply begins there, and water supply
is the first essential of a clean, healthy
modern city. Its population area, reckon-
ing only the immediate suburbs, extends
about six or eight miles north from the station
and about eight miles west. Eastward it spreads
quite a fair number of miles to the ocean. The
demand for an area of 5000 square miles—equal to
a square 70 miles by 71 miles—for the capital of
all Australia, shouldn’t seem so wildly ridiculous
to a community whose own local capital has
already expanded till it is about 93 miles long.
Yet Svdney doesn't need to look to the future as
the Federal city must do; tor when it wants another
20 miles of water catchment area it just instructs
the Sydney Government to take another 20 mil es .
If it was going to be cut off from New South
Wales and had to provide for all futurity-to
say right now how much land it would want to
control in order to provide it with water supply,
drainage outlet, and room for the spread of its
population, and its wharves, and to cover future
demands for new harbor space from now till
Judgment Day—Sydney would probably ask for
10,000 square miles at the very least. And if it
was told that it would be all right if it had an
area 14 miles by 14, and that if it wanted water it
could ask Thomas Bent for some, its language
would probably be worth hearing. That is
exactly what Wade wants to do to the Com-
monwealth.
■* * * *
History is full of the curious names of cities
round which centred the history of many
peoples. The City of Brotherly Love sounds
well; so do the City of Elms and the
City of the Palm Trees, and the City of
Magnificent Distances, and the City of the
Straits. There was pride and pomp, and glory
too, about the names of the City of the Great
King, and the City of the Sun, and the City of
the Seven Hills; and when the stalwart old
Athenian called his capital the City of the Violet
Crown he meant thereby that he loved it with a
great, enduring love, and that Athens was a place
worth living for —even worth dying for on occa-
sion. As a set-off to these, the Australian capital
which Wade and his anti-Australian push want
to build on the dry Canberra plain would pro-
bably be known as the City of the Perished Grass-
hopper—it is about the only name that would fit
its case. And when Dalgety is looking for a name
it rimy fairly call itself the City of Many Waters—
or possibly the City of the Purple Curtain, by
reason of the quaint atmospheric effects upon the
surrounding hills.
■* * * *
The Bulletin has already intimated that it
doesn’t regard Southern Monaro as necessarily
the very best site for a capital. It merely
seems to be the very best site in New
South Wales. If, in the collision of the State
Government’s cantankerousness and Alfred
Deakin’s fearsome affability, it is found im-
possible to arrive at a settlement of the
vexed question of the site and area, there
is always a way out. According to the
Constitution the capital is to be in New South
Wales —the New South Wales State Government
demanded that it should be there, though it now
talks as if some foreign pirate had done the evil
thing—but if New South Wales allows itself to be
governed, in its State capacity, by roaring
agitators and persons like Rehoboam, who won’t
allow the capital to be in their State except on
impossible terms, the Constitution can always be
altered. Clause 128 contains elaborate provisions
for such alteration, and the power of alteration
applies just as effectively to the question of the
capital as to any other question. Then, the altera-
tion being made, the Australian Government could
place the capital in its own special province, the
Northern Territory, on the banks of the big,
hustling, ever-flowing Katherine River, having
first built the transcontinental railway in hot
haste to make the site accessible. Such a capital
would be a great citadel, an outpost to guard Aus-
tralia against Asiatic invasion, and a centre round
which a new and much-needed population would
gather. To build a Federal city beside the
Katherine would be the suddenest possible
manner of reclaiming Australia’s Lost Province,
and in that respect its construction would be the
doing of a great work. And though the new
political centre might have disadvantages at first,
while it was struggling with the work of reclama-
tion and the rudiments of construction, it would
be .better, even in its earliest and crudest days, than
Wade’s pet City of the Perished Grasshopper.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Capital that Two Men are “ Willing to
Accept.”
This item, from a recent leading article in Sydney
Telegraph, is a fairly clear and fairly cheeky
statement of the case from the State Frights
standpoint :
Dalgety toeing unacceptable to the people of this
State as a site for the Federal Capital, and tne
New South Wales Parliament having further re-
solved that it will not grant 900 square nines
as demanded by the Federal Parliament —for tne
purpose of a Federal Capital anywhere in the State, it
devolves upon the Federal Parliament to select another
site. There are plenty to choose from. Mr. Watson an
Mr. Reid have both expressed their willingness to acce P
Canberra. But whether that particular spot be chosen
not there can be no valid reason for postponing trie a -
cision any longer. If the Federal Government takes a -
vantage of this opportunity for dealing with the questio
it will remove a potent cause of the dissatisfaction that
widespread throughout this State.
That opens up an extensive range of questions
and side issues. In the first place “ the people o
this State” (N.S.W.) never got a chance to say,
in their State capacity, whether Dalge y
was “ unacceptable ”or not. Joseph Carruthkr
promised to take a faked referendum on
the subject, by asking the people o
N.S.W. to state, by a direct vote, wbeth
Dalgety was more acceptable to them than a
other sites put together —in other wor,
whether its supporters outnumbered the co -
bined supporters of Lyndhurst, Yass, lunui ,
Tooma, Albury, Canberra, Lake George, and a ,",
possible sites in the north of the State.
never ventured even to do that, much less to ta
a straight, honest vote, with every propos
capital on the ballot paper, and see which worn
get most support. So “ the people of this Sta
never got a chance, in their State capacity,
definitely set forth their views ; the fact that
capital question was vaguely mixed up wi
hundred other questions at a State elec ,
counts for very little. Still, at the Federal e
tions, something was done. In accor »
to a recent statement, a good many N.S.W. ®
hers of the Australian Parliament voted a f>
the Dalgety site. And it m'ght also ■
been mentioned that quite a nunmer


these individuals were thrown o,ut at the last
federal election, when the N.S.W. Foreign-
traders and Parochialists went down with such a
crash. As for the statement that “ iMr. Watson
and Mr. Reid have both expressed their willing-
ness to accept Canberra,” they only count for two
votes, anyhow. And the question at issue is not
whether any two men are “ willing to accept”
an > ptace. i. he one question to be argued is—
what is the best place in the interests of Australia
and Australia’s future ? The White Australian
nation, we hope, will be going strong 10,000
years after both Reid and Watson are
dust. .The fact that Watson, who says lie
will go out of politics at next election,
and Reid, who will probably do the same,
are “ willing to accept ” a place which, in all pro-
bability, neither of them will ever again visit, is a
very small matter. Australia doesn’t want a
capital that two men, both tired of the political
battle, are merely “willing to accept” to save
themselves further trouble. It wants the sort of
capital that 4,000,000 people can honestly enthuse
over, and be proud of all their days, and which
they can hand down to future generations as one
of the glories of Australia. Last of all, there
arises the question—what has tIieN.S.W. State
Parliament to do with the matter? The people
ofN.S.W. have every possible right to be heard
in their Federal capacity and through their
Federal representatives, and they are so
heard. The individual members of the N.S.W.
State Parliament have every right to speak
—even to bellow—as Federal electors of
N.S.W., they do bellow. But in their
capacity as a State Parliament they have no more
rights than has the Y.M.C.A., or the Rechabite
body, or the Browning Society, or the Philatelic
League. In fact, they rank with the British
Israel Identification Association. Clause 125 of
the Constitution leaves the selection of a capital
entirely to the Australian Parliament elected by
the people of N.S.W. and of all the other States,
and that is a clause which all the sophistry, hard
lying and cast-iron assurance on earth can’t get
over.
The New National Question.
The angry splutter of questions re defence,
addressed by the Reid party to the Australian
Government at the re-assembling of the Repre-
sentatives, told a story. The Government could
evidently have done nothing to give greater
chagrin to the anti-Australians than the adoption
of a definite self-respecting defence policy. It is
not only that—as the Sydney Herald incautiously
admitted -the State Flights party sees a future
serious limiting of the range of its malady, owing
to the fact that the Commonwealth will have the
control of the youths of the comm unity at their plas-
tic age, and will, necessarily, perhaps unconsciously,
but none the less thoroughly, teach them to con-
sider themselves as Australians, not as Victorians
or Walers. The Reidites also see in the adoption
by Deakin of this scheme of National Defence a
further postponement of any hope of office for
them. They had been cherishing notions that,
the tariff disposed of, the Protectionist Govern-
ment would be ripe for a fall, because of the lack
of any more work for it to do. To see it now
undertake another great national task is galling.
It will be even more galling if the Government
decides —as The Bulletin hopes it will decide—
to tackle the land-tax problem immediately after
the defence scheme is in fair working order.
There is no need, for many years yet, for a
National Government in Australia to lay down
its arms on the plea that its work is over
and its duty fulfilled. For the present there
is a valuable hint for Prime Minister Deakin
in the frenzied and futile vexation which
the Opposition displays over his defence pro-
posals. What makes your enemies angry is, in
politics, good business; and National Defence
seems to make the Reidites very angry indeed.
Another lesson which is worth learning is that the
Government which keeps in office is the Govern-
ment that hustles and Does Things ; therefore,
it is up to the Deakin Government to Do Things
with all possible speed. The fixing of the Federal
capital, the creation of a strong defence
system, the taking over and settlement of
the Northern Territory, the imposition of a
graduated land-tax, the taking over of the State
debts, and the establishment of a sinking fund—
these and a few other matters should keep the
Deakin Government in office for the next ten
years. A Ministry is like a bicycle ; it can keep
up while it keeps running, but when it stops it
drops down.
♦
The American Fleet.
Australia should put out its gladdest hand to
welcome the visit of the American fleet to its
waters—a visit which Prime Minister Deakin
invited with much patriotic imagination and
arranged with much tact. It is well to see with
our own eyes tangible proof that there is a white
Power left in the Pacific, and to know that this
lonely outpost has some hope of a neighbor to
“ see fair play ” when it comes to death-grips with
the Asiatic. And, in the same relation, there is
much satisfaction in knowing that the Panama
Canal—which alone can make America a per-
manent naval factor in the Pacific —is now in a
fair way to become a solid fact. The date of
completion has been definitely fixed at July 1,
1914, and the cost at £50,000,000. It has been
decided to increase the width of the canal locks
from 100 feet to 110 feet, to meet the require-
ments of the monster warships which are now the
fashion. But the visit of the American fleet, and
contemplation of the nearness of the Panama
Canal to completion will be worse than useless,
actually harmful, if they have the effect in any
degree of lulling Australians into the sleep of
false security. They hold out hopes, at the best,
?f an alliance, not of vicarious defence. There
is no security for Australia until its every
man is trained and armed for defence,
and its every reasonable pound has been
invested in defence material. The idea that
in case of trouble Australia could rely on the
United States, or any other Power, to fight
its battles while it did no fighting itself
is as silly as it is undignified. “High
polities” are not managed in that way at all.
Korea has just stepped out of the family of inde-
pendent nations, and become the slave of Japan,
though it had definite treaties (one of them with
the United States) guaranteeing its independence.
The treaties Korea had, but it neglected to pro-
vide the means of defence—without which treaties
are so much waste paper ; and when a strong
man came armed to rob, Korea perished. So it
will inevitably be with Australia if organisation
for defence is longer neglected. It is utterly
unreasonable to hope that any nation,
even Great Britain, is, at a time of
crisis, going to interfere to fight Australia’s
quarrels if Australia persists in refusing to get
ready to fight them itself. What we believe in—
a White Australia and the like—we must be pre-
pared to believe in to the extent of putting up
hardy fists in support of the faith that is in us.
lb when the row comes, our attitude is that of a
frightened infant clinging to somebody’s skirts for
protection, it will he concluded, logically enough,
that we don t believe in anything very much, and
need tutelage—perhaps Japanese tutelage. No
nation can be independent which is the “kept”
nation of some other Power.
Australia’s Navigation Bill.
Something of the hide of the British Colonial
Urtice was revealed by the despatch from the
secretary of State for the Colonies and the memo-
randa from the British Board of Trade laid on the
table of the Senate last week. These related to
the Navigation Bill introduced in the Senate last
year. The memoranda state in the form of sug-
gestions all the objections—even the most trivial
taken to the Bill by the sweating British ship-
owners, and the despatch asks the Austra-
lian Government to alter the Bill to suit
these suggestions, covertly threatening that,
if fc he requisite alterations are not made,
the Order-in-Council, which under the British
Merchant Shipping Act is necessary to give
it validity, will be withheld. Every up-to-
date clause of the Bill has been objected to, and
the adoption of the Board of Trade’s suggestions
would mean the emasculation of the measure until
it became merely a Bill for the regulation of
shipping registered in Australia. In the despatch
Lord Elgin carefully states that the British
Government has no objection to Australia regula-
ting not only vessels registered in Australia, but
also all vessels engaged in the coasting trade, so
long as they are engaged in it. But the despatch
insists on the adoption of the Board of Trade’s sug-
gestions, and these suggestions limit the definition
of ships “engaged in the coasting trade,” so that
all oversea vessels, no matter how much they may
® n g a ge in the Australian coasting trade, are practi-
cally exempt. The Bill enacted that cargo steamers
should be periodically surveyed—a provision
necessary to protect men from being kept in coffin
ships ; that steamers should be dry-docked when
ordered by the Minister; that qualified cooks
should be carried on vessels of 500 tons gross and
upwards; that seamen engaged in Australia
must be paid certain rates of wages. All these
provisions are objected to because they will entail
expense on the British shipowner, and because
similar clauses do not appear in the British
Merchant Shipping Act. The Board of Trade
memoranda contain page after page of objections
and suggestions—all endorsed by the Colonial O ffice.
Then, at the end of the second lot of memoranda,
comes the coping-stone to this monument of inter-
ference. Under the Bill, all vessels which carry
cargo or passengers between one Australian port
and another are regarded as “engaged in the
coasting trade.’" To help the mail companies, and
not throw any obstacles in the way of Westralians
wishing to travel by mailboats, a special exemption
was made, that, until the construction of the
transcontinental railway, European mail steamers
should not be deemed to be engaged in the coasting
trade when they carried passengers or cargo from
a port in Westralia to any other port in the
eastern States. Now the Board of Trade “sug-
gests’’(the suggestion being turned into a com-
mand by the Colonial Office) that all steamers—
not only mail steamers—should enjoy the ex-
emption. If this is done, the Australian-owned
vessels in the Westralian trade will be subjected to
unfair cheap-labor competition, whilst being forced
themselves to observe Australian wage standards.
The whole virtue of the Bill has been let out of it,
and from a fair and honest piece of legislation it
would be turned into a measure penalising the
Australian shipping trade for the benefit of the
outsider. Alfred Deakin will have to think of
a lot of hot, firm things to say to the Colonial
Office, for Australia is determined to regulate its
shipping, and all ships coming here will have to
accept that regulation if they want to share in the
profits of the Australian trade. A Bill which
imposes conditions and penalties on Australians,
and lets off the Briton and the foreigner, is no
Bill at all.
Big Bags and Small Politicians.
This interesting item comes from a Sydney paper
which greatly admires the present N.S.W.
Government:—
FEDERAL INTERFERENCE.
The Size of Grain Bags.
Mr. Wade Insists on State Rights.
Mr. Wade makes it plain that he will put up consider-
able fight with the Federal Government over the question
of the size of grain sacks. He informed the Assembly
last evening that at the forthcoming conference of
Premiers there would be considered the “ threat of
the Federal Government to legislate so as to interfere
with the size of grain bags.” He took the view that
it was competent for the States to deal with the question
themselves. The Federal Government had not a “ mono-
poly of humanity.” The State" realised its obligations,
and was prepared to do its duty. While they remained
part of the Commonwealth they were determined that the
compact should be observed by both parties. If the
Federal Government went beyond its rights the State
was prepared to test the matter. He had taken the
opportunity to fortify his own opinion on the grain bags
question with the opinion of legal counsel, and the
opinion given agreed with his (Mr. Wade’s) own that the
proclamation was not justified by the Constitution.
When the occasion arose the question would be chal-
lenged.
It seems rather fortunate, on the whole, that Mr.
Wade has assured the public that the Australian
Government hasn’t “a monopoly of humanity.”
The information comes just when most needed,
for some people, after serious consideration of
certain recent doings, began to fancy that it had.
Eor months past stories have been poured
into the ears of Bent and Wade about
men badly injured or even killed by struggling
with needlessly bloated bags of grain. And Wade
and Bent have not only done nothing themselves
to abolish the bloated-bag inhumanity, but Wade,
at all events, announces that he will try hard to
prevent the Australian Government doing any-
thing—even though it has kept strictly within its
own province by confining itself to the bag
question so far as bags are a matter of foreign
and inter-State commerce. So some people almost
began to think that, if Wade could manage it, the
grain-lumping slaves, instead of getting any State
relief, would be violently deprived of what little
relief the humane Federal authority is able to
offer them. They heard a report that Wade was
going to waste the N.S.W. taxpayers’ good money
in law expenses in order to prevent the abolition
by Federal authority of the huge, murderous bag
which kills men, and they didn’t hear any definite
report to the effect that Wade, if he succeeded in
his design to prevent the Australian Government
doing anything in this urgent matter, was going
to do anything very definite himself. Some of
them began even to wonder if the wretched busi-
ness of encroaching upon Federal rights, at which
the State Government seems to spend most of its
time nowadays, had so obsessed it that it
deliberately aimed at re-establishing the shame-
ful cruelty of the 3001 b. and 3501 b. sack
if by so doing it could annoy and de-
feat the Federal authority, and thus show its
small importance and its little pomp and circum-
stance. So it was wise of Mr. Wade to assure the
community that the Australian Parliament
hasn t “a monopoly of humanity.” Things
have, of late, worn such an aspect that
the assyrapce very badly called for. Only
It may be remarked that if Mr. Wade would
show only a quarter the desire to help an op-
pressed class which he does to prevent the Austra-
ban Parliament helping it, and if he seemed half as
angry when a lumper is killed or injured by the
bloated bag as he does when the Australian Parlia-
ment tries to prevent the next lumper being killed
or injured in the same way, his assurance would com-
mand more attention. The Australian Parliament,
before it acted, waited a long time in order to let
VV ade and people of his kind have a chance to act
themselves. It only moved in the matter when it
began to look as if there was about as much
chance of them moving to any serious purpose as
there was of the G.P.O. taking unto itself wings.
Chasing the Wind.
Premier Bent is hard at work at the health-
giving pastime of chasing the wind, and he has
now pursued that fleeting substance almost over
Victoria. In other words, Bent is searching
Victoria for good land, unoccupied, which he
intends to cut up into farms. Recently he in-
vestigated the Buffalo Ranges, in the Gippsland
district, and he found some country which, with a
few improvements, he reckons ought to help.
The improvements necessary are, first, a railway
as close to the mountains as possible; secondly, a
road over an odd mountain or two; and, thirdly,
the clearing of the land from heavy timber. And,
when all this is done, the land will be worth
about £lO per acre. Turning to the other end of
the State, in the north-west of the Wimmera, a
Government party was sent out on an exploratory
trip, in the search for wheat land. The party began
by getting lost, and nearly perished of thirst.
As a matter of fact, if it had kept on the
route arranged it would have perished, but it
came back before it was too dead. This party
reported that, amidst a wilderness of waterless
sand, it had found a few patches of decent wheat-
growing land. On a sketch map which it pub-
lished, the good land looks like the Nile on a map
of Egypt—a streak of verdure in a bellowing
desert. Bent, however, is going to put down
bores, and perhaps a light railway ; and he calls
this opening up the country. If the promises are
ever carried out, it will be years before any wheat
comes off this area, which is in the almost-per-
manent drought region. And all the while,
staring Bent in the inflamed countenance, are
millions of acres of the finest wheat-growing land
in Victoria —land that has never known a plough.
This is on the Western Plains. Every acre
is within the rainy area; there is not a tree
nor a shrub that requires tg be cleared ; all this
land is ready, and calling'loudly for cultivation.
But the great bulk of it is held firmly by big land-
lords, whom nothing but a heavy graduated land-
tax will shift. The writer recently drove from
Inverleigh to Cressy, and on to Camperdown, a
distance of 55 miles, and the only farming he saw,
after leaving Inverleigh, was at Foxhow, a little
hamlet on the north-west edge of the great lake
Corangamite. Thousands of acres of fine wheat
land were passed through, but there was not a
sign of settlement elsewhere. On one 20-mile
stretch of main road only two vehicles were met.
It is incomprehensible that this land should
remain locked up, while an attempt is made
to push farmers into the dry, miserable mallee, or
the wet, impassable pinnacles of Gippsland.
A Geelong Suggestion.
At the Victorian Methodist Conference, the ques-
tion of religion in Melbourne was very gravely
debated. One speaker mentioned that “ there
were actually eleven churches fewer than there
were 20 years ago, though the population is
140,000 greater.” Then Brother E. N. Hitchcock,
from Geelong, rose and remarked :
The way that people had congregated in Melbourne was
a grave menace to the State. It would be a grand thing
if the Government would only distribute the people
evenly throughout the Victorian towns.
Brother Hitchcock then sat down ; and the Con-
ference having wrestled hard with the subject,
settled it by appointing a committee to collect
statistics. It never seemed to occur to Brother
Hitchcock, or any of the other brothers, that
there were any reasons for the unhealthy con-
gestion of people in Melbourne at the ex-
pense of the rest of the State. Yet
the two main reasons are a lot plainer
than the writing that scared Belshazzar, and
which the conference knows all about. They are
land monopoly and low wages. Land monopoly
is at its worst within an easy afternoon’s drive
of Brother Hitchcock’s own residence. He has
only to drive 25 miles along the Inverleigh-road,
or the same distance along the Colac-road, and he
is out on the great Western Plains, where thou-
sands and thousands of acres of magnificent wheat-
land are in the hands of half-a-dozen big sheep-
squatters, the Russells and Armytages chiefly;
and where there is less than one human being
to the square mile. It is to Brother Hitch-
cock s material interests (he is a draper) to get
this land cut up and settled. But he is one of the
Anti-Sosh crowd in his own town, and a tax on
land, or compulsory purchase, causes the Anti-
Soshites to raise their hands in pious horror. The
second reason for Melbourne’s congestion is the
low wages and the miserable conditions of country
labor. Yet, if a Wages Board for country indus-
tries is mentioned, it is Hitchcock’s crowd again
which bangs the drum of Anti-Sosh, and squeals
that the country would be ruined if such a Board
were created. So what is the use of people like
Brother Hitchcock ?
♦
The “Age” Finds Work.
Almost every issue of the Melbourne Age con-
tains an account of young farmers leaving Vic-
toria, because they are unable to obtain land in
their native State. A good few of these immi-
grants go to N.S.W. and Queensland; a fair
number get as far as Maoriland ; while odd lots
venture to Tasmania and Canada. But a few days
ago it was reported that half-a-dozen farmers were
off to try their luck in Westralia—of all places;
and this has so affected the Age that it has broken
out in a series of articles headed “ Settling
the Land.” This is about the third series of
articles on the land that the Age has published
within 12 months; and, although that journal rages
furiously all round and underneath the subject,
it has never yet actually touched it. In fact, it
has got no forrarder than an old whim-horse, or a
kitten that chases its tail. Here is a choice
sample of the way the Age rages violently to no
purpose:—
The fact that land settlement in Victoria has come to a
dead stop has apparently caused no Ministerial concern.
There is an evident disposition to wait until something
turns up—until country lands become cheaper, or until
agricultural science may give a value to areas now worth-
less. There is work to be done at once.
And just when the reader is worked tip and
expects to read something effective, the article
straggles off: —
The settlement of the Murray frontages under a system
of undivided authority would soon be accomplished.
The Murray blocks are miles away from a rail-
way, and are liable both to floods and droughts.
Also the best of them were taken up long ago,
and most of those left are useless under present
conditions. This is the work that the Age is
yelling to have done. It is also calling out for
more of the miserable, drought-stricken, sandy
Mallee to be opened up. And all the while there
are millions—not thousands, but millions—of
acres south of the Dividing Range, with an
assured rainfall, lying practically unused.
But apparently the Age would die before it
would advocate the breaking up of the huge
estates which at present impound and lock up
these millions of fertile acres. It is an unfor-
tunate fact for the progress of Victoria that the
Age is a fair-sized squatter itself, and would have
to cut up its Lilydale property before it could
battle effectively for the breaking up of the large
estates.
The Situation in Asia.
A NEW cause of trouble develops in Asia. Japan
undertook the late war with Russia, as all good
Englishmen know, to liberate Korea and Man-
churia from Muscovite tyranny. It’s not a usual
cause of war, this benevolent desire to be
a benefactor to some little people struggling
under a too-heavy burden. At different
times people in England have talked of
going to war about Bulgarian atrocities and Congo
Free State atrocities, but they were always care-
ful to stop short at talking. The Japanese, how-
ever,are different. Benevolence is theirweak point,
and reckless philanthropy their failing. They went
to war to liberate Korea and to open the door of
Manchuria. Now liberated Korea is crushed flat
under the heel of a Japanese military occupation,
and such of the Koreans as are not of slavish mind
have been murdered or are now being hunted
down. And the door of Manchuria is open to
Japan ; but to no one else. Manchuria is sup-
posed to belong to China, and China, the other
day, proposed to build a railway within its own
province. But Japan forbids; it would interfere
with the “open door”—Japanese alone admitted—
and give the Chinese some chance of trade in
strictly Chinese territory. Trouble, however,
threatens on the point. Korea was guaranteed
its independence by, among other Powers, the
United States. But none interfered with its
extinction, mainly because it was a forlorn nation
that couldn’t help itself, and was not therefore
counted worth saving (were war to break out to-
morrow Australia would be classed in exactly the
same category). But there is some prospect, it is
said, of American interference to prevent such a
Japanese domination of China as will close all
Eastern Asia to any trade but the Brown Man’s.
The rights of trade can always find respect even
when the rights of treaties are trampled under
foot. America is probably feeling rather thankful
just now that it has a big fleet in the Pacific, and
that it has enough coal stored at Manila to carry
on a year’s war. Diplomatic representations
carry much more weight when a warship or so is
in the offing.
♦-
“Set the House on Fire!”
Towards the end of last week the Tory press
announced that, unless the other employers came
to the assistance of the three Sydney coastal ship-
ping companies, they would be unable to hold out
against the sympathy strike that had been
declared against them. And it was stated,
with' bitter scorn that the companies had re-
peatedly offered to go to the Arbitration Court,
but the men, who were supposed to believe in
Arbitration, had refused. Exactly who had
refused was not stated. As a matter of fact, the
three coastal companies, although their ships are
laid up and their trade paralysed, have no indus-
trial dispute with any union. The sailors, cooks,
and stewards, who brought about the paralysis,
left the ships as individuals, and were not called out
by any union. The carters who received orders to
take goods to the wharves refused, and the
bosses cursed them, but instead of dismiss-
ing them, sent them to take goods elsewhere.
When one of the companies sent a steamer to the
dock, the dock hands refused to touch it. They
The Revolution of Johnson.
[FOR BULLETIN.]
Mr. Mahon said there was no obligation in the Oon-
stitution to settle the Federal Capital site at any particu-
iar tune, andhe thought it would be advisable to postpone
the matter for the next 50 years.
Mr. Johnson (N.S.W.): There would be a revolution
before then. (Laughter.)— Hansard.
In the I uture looms a Vision which excites mirth
and derision—it is Johnson in collision with
the State !
In his boundless elocution he perceives the true
solution of our troubles— Revolution While
You Wait!
He has conned the dictionary, and donned
speeches light and airy, and around his “Little
Mary ” Hansard gleams,
On his head there shines a helmet (brain and
feather there are well met), and he’s Ruler of
the Realm, it somehow seems !
In that Vision we descry him as his legions thun-
der by him and the craven foemen fly him in
despair;
He is marching on to Melbourne with the wealthy
and the well-born, who intend to slay the
Hell-born in their lair.
They are tough, but he is tougher—yes ! No
longer will he suffer any vile Australian duffer
to dictate,
Or inflict weird persecutions on “ the grand old
institutions” lurking in the convolutions of
debate!
Johnson’s army in that Vision lacks proportion
and precision, but it moves with great decision
to its goal;
In the van is Johnson, striking like a half-
demented Viking, or an angry Devil hiking
out a soul ;
With an energy astounding, on his fiery war-
horse bounding, we behold the great man
pounding at the gate
Behind which, pale and shaken, the Australian
troops have taken refuge from the field for-
saken to Ma State !
O, the doom that hurtles o’er them ! O, the fate
that lies before them ! Like a bull will John-
son gore them in the mud !
Hear the wailing, and the gnashing, and the loud
concussive crashing ! See the sword of John-
son flashing through the blood !
Void of all weak ruth and pity, he destroys the
wicked city, and in ashes black and gritty
leaves its stones —
And, like Timour grim and stern, that the
trembling world may learn, he erects a mighty
cairn of HUMAN BONES 1
N.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


DEAFNESS, head-noises,
Ringing in the Ears, etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME with
pure Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long standing
or whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Deafness and
Head-Noises.
THE REV. O. P. POSTER writes“ For the last 25
years I have been paying heavy doctors’ bills until they
proclaimed my Deafness and Head-noises entirely incur-
able. I have now used your treatment for three weeks,
and am simply delighted with it."
DR. P. J. SMITH, 8.A., M.A.C., writes :—“ Icheerfully
endorse the 1 BAROSCOPE ’ as a specific treatment for
Deafness, Head-noises, Ringing in the Ears, and all other
Aural Complications.”
These are only a few of our grateful letters. Call or
write for full FREE particulars. Address: —
“ EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
STUDY YOUR HEALTH.
DRINK ONLY.
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
.Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
o^ t .?'L^ nemato 8 ra ph Specialists and Electricians,-
090 George Street, Sydney.*
refused even to see it. And to have dismissed
either carters or dock hands for refusing to touch
the unclean thing would have provoked a general
strike—yet all the same the dockers and carters
didn’t strike; they simply viewed the coastal
vessels in the same way that a Hebrew views pork
without going on strike. The three companies have
been declared by the unions, or a committee, or the
Archbishop of Canterbury, or somebody, to be
industrially tainted, infected, and unclean. And
the proposal of the Tory press that the other em-
ployers should come to the assistance of the three
coastal shipping companies meant that the masters
should provoke a general strike, and thereby
bring about an industrial cataclysm that would
exhaust the funds with which the industrial quar-
antine is being maintained. Premier Wade is
scheming to bring about the abolition of the
recognition that the unions obtained under the
old Arbitration Act. The companies have just
experienced a taste of what may happen when
Premier Wade has succeeded in abolishing recog-
nition of the unions, and they don’t seem
to like it any more than they liked unionism.
Had it been a Labor paper, like the Worker,
that had proposed a general strike to bring
the three companies to their knees, the Tory press
would have filled columns with denunciation of
the wickedness and injustice of the proposal. The
inter-State and deep-sea companies, the master
carriers, and other unions of capitalists have come
to arrangements with the unionists in their em-
ploy, and they resent being asked to ruin their
businesses or reduce their profits because the
three companies affected desire to pay lower
wages than the average. So the general lock-out
is not likely to be brought about, but that does
not mitigate the villainy of the proposal that the
State’s industries should be paralysed, that em-
ployers and employees who are working together
in perfect amity should turn and rend each other,
and that a general upheaval, which would bring
disaster to thousands of homes, should be brought
about deliberately and by malicious forethought,
all to help three companies to get an undue
advantage over other employers of labor by
paying a wage that the other shipping
companies have admitted was too low, and which
they voluntarily increased without any strike or
other pressure. The Tory press is great on the
sanctity of the law of supply and demand ; and
the unionists have appealed to that law. The
three coastal companies find they cannot keep
their steamers running unless they employ union
labor, not only on the boats but on the wharves,
and the only way out of the dispute is to dismiss
the few remaining blacklegs that are still in their
service (the bulk of them were paid off last week
because there was no work for them to do) and make
a fresh start with union labor at union rates,
which are the standard wages paid by other
shipping companies. The companies have played
their game and lost, and to try to get out of
paying over the stakes by setting the house on
fire is not only low down, but actually criminal.
Under Wade’s new Wages Board Bill anyone
who incites or persuades another to strike is
liable to something like £lOOO fine or imprison-
ment. If his Bill were law now some rich news-
paper proprietors might be busy counting out one
thousand sovereigns to avoid going to gaol.
Just when Fat in general was telling the N.S.W.
union wharf laborers that they were little short of
criminals for refusing to work with the non-union-
ists, and that they were criminals when they tried
to prevent the non-unionists “ making an honest
living,” the Stock Exchanges—the noisiest repre-
sentatives of Fat in all the land—were discussing
something that arose out of a S. Australian loan
project. South Australia proposed to raise
£500,000 in Sydney, and appointed a member
of the Stock Exchange as its agent. It offered
commission not only to the members of
the Exchange, but to anybody who would
do the work of bringing in applica-
tions. It proposed, in short, not to dis-
tinguish between unionists and non-unionists.
And did the Fat unionists of the Stock Exchange
agree? Not much ! Promptly they “ re-empha-
sised ” a rule forbidding non-unionists to touch
the business. “ If any part of the loan is placed
through private channels” (that, is, by non-
unionists), “ instead of through the regular chan-
nels, the Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane Ex-
changes will refuse to quote the stock.” Plainly,,
they wouldn’t merely boycott it for a start; but
they would refuse to touch it at any time there-
after. Yes, those union wharf-laborers are terrible
fellows ; and the Stock Exchanges will probably
lend a hand yet to down them and their pre-
posterous claims !
♦
Sydney Telegraph editorial (17/3/’08): —
With complemental coolness Mr. Watson, who appeared
as Mr. Deakin’s principal backer, attempted to belittle
adverse criticism of the scheme and its projected enforce-
ment by giving- an assurance that “ these proposals were
to be submitted in their details to the scrutiny and
decision of Parliament.” Of Parliament— not of the
people. What it all comes to is, therefore, that the head
of a professedly Liberal Government intends to subject
the people to conscription for three years, without con-
sulting THEM IN ANY WAY.
Now there is a general election every three years,
which perhaps the Telegraph doesn’t know ; and
unless Parliament could be got together the day
after the election, which is impossible, and “con-
scription” could be started by a process of com-
plete surprise inside a week thereafter, it is
impossible to “ subject the people to conscription
for three years without consulting them in any
way.” In fact, even under these impossible con-
ditions the thing couldn’t be done; the term
would be a week short of three years. The situa-
tion now is that the Deakin Government has
given the fullest notice of its intentions re com-
pulsory military training, and, if the people are
hostile, the general elections, a little over 18
months ahead, will end the Deakin Government.
That fact should be visible even to the
eye of the most ignorant person in the
community. Probably no one expects common
fairness or political decency from the Sydney
Telegraph, but surely there is no reason why it
should create the impression that its leaders are
written by an infant school. It isn’t worth while
complaining because the paper’s charge against
Deakin was wholly untrue, and unfair to a degree
that the yellowest of the American yellow press
might well be ashamed of, and because that sort of
thing drags the good name of Australian
journalism in the mud. That aspect of the case
is a used-up subject. But when a paper lies it
should at least be plausible, and not make itself a
butt for the scorn of the irreverent multitude.
Wade and Waddle, buzzing their eternal State
Frights, have frightened little South Aus. off the
premises. South Aus. wanted £500,000, and,
reckoning that its credit wasn’t quite as good as
that of N. S. Wales, offered a shade better terms
than Wade and Waddle’s. Thereupon down
came Ma, and said that Sydney was her pitch,
and nobody there was allowed to have an uncle
in Fiji but herself. So S. Aus. goes to London
instead, and is liable to presently hear Ma shriek-
ing that it’s her London, and Bull Cohen is her
uncle, and how dare anybody else come there !
Meantime a recent S. Aus. paper (the Observer,
March 7) contains one N.S.W. advt. imploring
S. Aus. to send its money to Sydney to buy land
at Cowra (N.S.W.), and another ditto ditto
at Cootamundra (N.S.W.), and a third ditto
do. at Grenfell (N.S.W.), and a fourth ditto
at Inverell; and a fifth and a sixth and a
seventh ditto ; and several of these advts. men-
tion, “ Concession has been granted in train fares
.... Apply Intelligence Department, Martin
Place, Sydney.” So, according to State Rights,
it’s a shocking thing for the little South Aus.
Government to ask for N.S.W. money to build
S. Aus. railways, but it’s quite the proper
thing for the N.S.W. Government to aid in
getting S. Aus. money to buy N.S.W. land.
State Rights has been a fraud and a nuisance ;
now it is an impudent bully as well.
- + •
Senator Findley expressed a sound principle of
economy when he said that he would prefer to
have Australia’s wire-netting made in Australian
prisons than have it imported. Whether a man
is in prison or out of it, the country has to find
him the means of livelihood, and it is far better
that he should work for his living than loaf on
others for it. That rule holds good with the
prisoner just as much as with the free man.
Again, if the country saves the export of, say,
£500,000 a year by not having to send abroad for
its wire netting, the saving is the same whether
the netting is made here by saints or by prisoners
who are in for life. The prisoner has to be
kept employed if he is not to go mad ; it
is better to employ him at something
useful than at something useless ; and the
making of wire netting is as good work as any
other. Even if we import the netting we have no
real guarantee that some of it isn’t made abroad by
men who have been in gaol, or who ought to be
there. But while prisoners ought to be kept busy
at some useful and profitable trade, no trade
ought to be exclusively, or even in the main, a
prison trade. That is to say, when a man says
that his trade is the making of wire netting
he shouldn’t be thereby recognised as a gaol bird;
and he shouldn’t learn that trade or any other in
gaol, only to come out and find it of no use out-
side because the gaol factory is the only one of
its kind in Australia. Simply because netting is
made in at least one Australian gaol there should
be a dozen netting factories outside. Then the
released prisoner could have a fair show of finding
honest employment, and also of losing his disas-
trous identity in the crowd.
♦
The attention of Mr. Wade, of N.S.W., who
continually doth cry like a pelican because of
various alleged “breaches of faith ” on the part
of the Commonwealth, has had his attention
violently attracted by a serious and real breach on
the part of the N.S.W. Government. In 1906,
the Cabinet of which he was a member threw
open a part of the Dorrigo lands, near
Coff’s Harbor, for closer settlement. It pub-
lished a map of the locality, and the map
showed beautiful roads 99ft. wide right through
the subdivision; also, public attention was
dragged to the fact that other roads were under
construction. Further, the Government, to dis-
sipate all suspicion, put on gangs of men at each
end of the main road to Coff’s Harbor, and when
intending selectors saw these men vigorously
attacking the landscape they took the uncom-
pleted road for granted. After the land was
taken up, however, the road-makers did the
Arab act. They folded their tents and stole
away, so that while the luckless settlers can see a
bit of road from Dorrigo towards Coff’s Harbor,
and while there is another bit at Coff’s Harbor
towards Dorrigo which they can’t see, there
remains to this day, between these bits of road, an
impassable stretch of forest primeval, eight
miles long, across which the settlers can do
nothing but curse Wade’s Government. Wade,
as Premier, countenances the injustice of his
Government, and turns a deaf ear to the settlers’
complaints. But he has an ear larger than a cathe-
dral door for the slightest whisper about State
rights and Federal wrongs.
-♦ '
“ Aunt Emma” Pulsford did this moan as soon
as he arrived at Fremantle on his return from
England (it will be observed that Pulsford can
recognise that a whole continent is blighted and
overwhelmed by calamity as soon as he sights the
first wharf): —
I regret that the new tariff is such a calamity to Aus-
tralia. The feeling in England with regard to it is one of
the greatest surprise.
The last sentence, anyhow, sounds violently im-
probable. England is quite accustomed to tariffs
like ours, or even larger than ours. It has met
them in the United States, Canada, France,
Germany, Russia, Japan, Victoria, South Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and stacks of other places. It has
itself established a tariff very like ours, in Egypt.
So it is fairly certain that it isn’t the tariff that
England is surprised about; but rather the awful
lies that have been told about it by wandering
Foreign-traders. For instance, one lout lately
filled up London Truth with the news that no
pianos are made in Australia, that the industry
can’t be started here because there is a law which
prohibits skilled workmen coming into the coun-
try ; and that consequently music is sure to die
out in the country, and become a lost art. And
the English people were probably surprised—not
at the tariff, but at the lie, and at many similar
lies.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ The Power of the Cross.
Theatre Royal “ The Prisoner of Zenda.
Her Majesty’s “ The Lady Dandies.
Tivoli Rickards' Co.
The Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Brewster’s Millions.”
Theatre Royal “ The Little Bread-Winner.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Butt-Rumford Concerts.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
♦ ,
Think of yourself let loose in a butcher s
shop with instructions to turn the contents into a
cream-puff or a pint of sparkling Moselle, lhen,
when the awfulness of the contract has soaked in,
you will be feeling for yourself much the same as
you probably will for Captain Basil Hood and yr.
Felix Hugo, when first you hear that those
went back to the days that followed “ Ihe Year
of Terror ” in Paris, with a resolve to turn them
into light comic opera. Barras and light comic
opera have one thing in common, it is true ; with
both the dressmaker is exalted to the seventeenth
heaven. There was just beginning the in-
evitable swing-back from the ragged horrors
through which Julius Knight and his k ' C! ) r "
let Pimpernel lately swashbuckled a.t the
Theatre Royal. Barras had made a dictator
of himself, and was working up towards those
extravagant splendors at the Luxembourg which
were presently to trip him up, even as he had
tripped up many abetter man. The Merveilleuses,
or Lady Dandies, were striving to set a new
fashion, or resurrect an old one, in which female
charms were not too heavily veiled —the fashion
of “goddesses without bodices.” “The Laxly
Dandies,” the new musical comedy at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), opens with a genuine Sardou
picture of this period. Ragged Baris, hanging on
to its grim ideas of citizenship, has not been able
to swallow the new fashion, and intuitively knows
that the drift is the wrong way. So we have
Florence Young and the other Lady Dandies
pursued hotly by a mob, and rescued nominally
bv Lagorille (E. Sherras), the aristocrat, though
the Dandy leader seems to have done a good
deal of the rescuing herself. For in that
costume, as she hints, she can manage the
men; it is the women who won’t be moved
by a shapely understanding wrapped in
delicate silk. Into this picture another aristocrat
precipitates himself, the worse for wear and mud
—Dorlis (Reginald Roberts) escaped back from
Italy, whither he had been dragged to help
Bonaparte win a few battles. His bride, Illyrine,
believing he had deserted her, had been per-
suaded into one of the prompt divorces of those
rapid times ; and she and her dowry—especially
her dowry—are being married to St. Amour (O.
R. Bantock) at the moment the mob of 15 or so
rages in front of one of W. R. Coleman’s very fine
backgrounds. The problem in three acts is to
keep his head on Dorlis’ shoulders and re-unite
him to Illyrine before the roses and other scented
vegetables are handed up and Mrs. Israel Cohen’s
carriage is bawled for along Pitt-street.
* * * *
Very few musical comedies have so sub-
stantial a foundation to build upon ; and the
materials for the cream-puff are thus a lot better
than they looked at first glance. Certainly if you
want a vast amount of fooling you don’t get it.
There is not much opportunity for that clowning
feat of “The Dairymaids,” wherein the wild
comedian, out shooting, brings down a crayfish
and a shower of trout. Even as things are, the
lightest “business” of “The Lady Dandies ” is
out of the picture ; as, for instance, when Bantock,
in the gorgeous upholstery of St. Amour, secretary
to Barras, says that his telephone number is
the same as Adam’s—“ Two-eight-one, Apple.”
Still, Bantock is forgiven. He takes the part
which under ordinary circumstances would fit
Lauri; • but that smiling comedian is at present
playing the part of a very sick man, and a crowd
which says sometimes in its haste that it is a little
tired of Lauri, but which, nevertheless, misses
him when he isn’t there, will hope that his new
turn won’t have a long run. Bantock is, however,
a success. He has two songs to sing, in which the
enunciation of the words and an unctuous delivery
are of most importance, and so he scores easily.
But Reginald Roberts shines most conspicuously.
There is scope for dramatic acting in the part of
Dorlis, the love-smitten refugee who may be short
of a head in the morning; and with at least
two very fine numbers to work upon, he lifts him-
self and the whole performance right out of the
ordinary ruck of banal musical comedy. Here
especially, but generally throughout the comedy,
the composer presents some of those surprises
which the orchestra has not been able to furnish
since “Veronique” was played. These two
features ought to make “The Lady Dandies” a
great success—the music and the dressmaking.
True, without some previous little preparation,
the plot of it all is just a trifle obscure at first;
and there are scores who will like it better on the
second visit than on the first.
* * * *
The piece will run till Easter, and during
those weeks there will be time to say something
more of Florence Young, in a part that suits her
vivacity and her high notes ; of Edmund Sherras,
the new light baritone, whose “Redoubt” is an
excellent introduction; of Miss Fanny Dango,
dainty, but not otherwise well equipped as
Illyrine ; of Leslie’s legs ; and of other things.
** * #
“The Power of the Cross ” aims frankly
at making the public flesh creep. And indeed at
the “Royal West Theatre, London,” whence the
programme tells us this play “has come direct,”
it no doubt marrow-froze very shrewdly. But
Australian audiences grow sophisticated, and in
the Sydney Criterion on Saturday night the
ribald laugh indicative of the discriminating mind
was painfully in evidence at times. This, the
“Mystic Story of a Mysterious Being,” is
designed to show the kind of trouble a Vampire
causes when off the chain. Baron Woulfe Cur-
zola arrives at the riverside residence of a British
family of the middling classes. He is a Vampire
from Dalmatia, where notoriously his kind are as
thick as rabbits in Australia. Woulfe has a
pretty talent for extinguishing candles at 20 paces
with a single wave of the right paw ; also he is no
mean hand at causing blue flames to blaze up in
unexpected spots, but his supernatural gifts
halt at money-spinning. Consequently he is
driven to forge title-deeds for the purpose of rais-
ing from his host a paltry £15,000. The host is
unfortunate in his social milieu. In addition to
the Vampire (whose physical eeriness is accentu-
ated by the fact that whenever and wherever he
appears all the lights—barring a solitary cal-
cium ray which concentrates on his head—go
completely out) there abide with him Benjamin
Hawke (a shady solicitor), and Rita Lascelles (an
adventuress). These two are out of place in any
pure British home. The village postman, brave
in red tunic and satchel, comes carolling adown
the garden path of Mr. Kingsley’s residence.
Rita promptly strangles him the while Ben
filches from his letter-bag a “registered en-
velope” containing “a cheque.” The twain are
absorbed heaving the official’s corpse into the
Thames when darkness falls suddenly. Through
it a horrid green glimmer stabs, and illuminates
the Satanic brow of the Vampire, who towers
above the guilty brace, batlike, flapping his arms.
Rita drops her end of the postman, discomfited.
It is a situation where any but a perfect lady
would say “Damn” straight out. The police
(distressingly incompetent, as they always are at
the Criterion) arrest a stainless young medico
named Leslie Fairfax for this crime, Woulfe re-
maining silent on the understanding that the
offenders shall “ recognise his power.”
As a result, apparently, of intimacy with
the Vampire, Gerald (Kingsley’s secretary and the
husband of Margaret—” A Woman that Suffers ”),
who in Act I. wears the creased trousers and well-
brushed hair of the habitual Judder, pervades the
whole of Act 11. in drink, more or less. He is no
longer neat and tidy. Rightly is this Act called
“ The Downward Path.” It is chiefly remarkable
for a demonstration by Woulfe of the Dalmatian
vamping system. The chosen subject is Kingsley,
who has just discovered the business of the forged
title deeds. On the surface, the vamping process
appears simple enough. Woulfe, on Saturday
night, merely bit his creditor sharply in the neck,
whereat, with a howl of surprise and pain, the
old gentleman passed to his eternal reward.
* * * *
Burglar’s Alley, Whitechapel (Act III.)
finds Leslie a refugee from gaol in the lodgings of
Mr. and Mrs. O Dowd, his humble though devoted
friends. While there, the brilliant young fellow
unearths a medical treatise “translated from the
German 100 years ago by the famous Dr. John-
son,” which tells the way to out a Vampire when
you meet him. Joy, oh joy ! In the midst of
congratulatory hand-wringings the lights die away,
a long-drawn wail sounds, and Woulfe mate-
rialises. He throws Dr. Johnson’s invaluable
work into the fire. However, to everybody’s
relief O’Dowd (the only man on the stage who can
frustrate and gibe at the Vampire with impunity)
plunges forward and salvages the volume.
Dreadful things occur now. The Vampire is
annoyed. He towers, with arms held high and
hands drooping, and makes sharp prodding move-
ments in Leslie’s direction. The young physician
wilts. He subsides behind a screen. When he
emerges his hair is white, No one is surprised.
Later, Woulfe invades Margaret’s boudoir, and
towers and prods at her as well; also he vamps
her innocent child with fatal results. But he and
his criminal friends, Ben and Rita, are now grow-
ing unpopular. Rita is far too handy with her
knives and things; while matters in regard to
Woulfe have reached such a pitch that it is im-
possible for anyone to read quietly for five minutes
without the Dalmatian contorting horrifically
into the room and annihilating consecutive thought
by causing all the lights to be extinguished. The
Vampire grows boresome and redundant. Eng-
land wearies of him. He has outstayed his wel-
come. It is advisable he should return to his
native land. This he at length does, and appears
(Act IV.) crouching amid the ruins of his ancestral
Abbey. Almost the audience begins to feel sorry
for Woulfe when it sees his home. It consists simply
of some snow-strewn fragments of masonry, and a
collection of arid ice-peaks incapable of carrying
half a sheep to the million acres. But his callous
conduct soon banishes pity. Hardly have Leslie
and the O’Dowds and Margaret and her husband
and the others arrived on the scene than he begins
his old tricks. So Leslie’s young lady holds up a
gold cross, and Rita steps forward with her knife
and stabs Woulfe so that he dies. And the popu-
lar verdict is that it serves him right. The cross
has power, it may be mentioned, to render the
hardiest of Vampires who absorbs in its vicinity
half-a-dozen inches of cold steel, liable to instant
death. Hence the title of the play.
* * ■* m
Jefferson Taite is a life-like Vampire. His
menacing attitudes, his bitter laugh, his warning
screams, powerfully recall the methods employed
by G. Reid in his recent Anti-Sosh campaign.
Assuredly such a person would frighten into lit 3
anyone who took him seriously. Godfrey Cass is
good as the secretary who goes astray ; as is Max
Maxwell, who plays Leslie Fairfax. J. P. O’Neill
(O’Dowd) causes vast merriment in alliance with
Ethel Buckley (Dolly Gray). Helen Fergus,
Stewart Garner, and John Hesford do well as
Margaret, Hawke, and Kingsley respectively;
and that sound actress, Harrie Ireland, shines
refulgentlypn the awful r6le of Rita. The mount-
ing of this production is excellent.
* * *• *
The tail of the Butt-Rumford concerts is
curling to a close. Next Saturday these children
of Anak will give the really truly last concert- in
Sydney Town Hall, but it will be given in aid of
local charitable institutions, and will, therefore,
be quite disinterested, like the rain that falls alike
on the just and the rheumatic. A good many thou-
sands of Australasian money will go hence when the
Tuneful Two leave these shores, but the public has
got its equivalent, so far as the Handsome Lady
is concerned, in some of the loudest and most
resounding melody that ever soared and billowed
within the Town Hall. At the charity concert
“A Sabbath Morning at Sea” (by request) will
be one of the items. “ Land of Hope and Glory”
will be another. This gift concert will be the
fifteenth given by the Large Pair in Sydney, and
by the time the tour closes in Adelaide the co.
will have given seventy separate groups of musical
outbursts. Manager Tait hopes that at the
lowest reckoning the charities will benefit to a
£5OO extent.
** * #
At Sydney Palace Spencer’s
is now running on the short-story system. The
impossible and the pathetic, the bellowdramatic
and the artistic, chase one another across the
changing screen in a bewildering manner. Dull
platitude is followed by pictures that represent
biting satire on some Yankee national idiosyn-
crasies. The cinematograph as a satirist is a new
and most startling innovation, and will soon
become a fearsome weapon in political struggles.


CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films every week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 CEORCE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. g. HOWARD POPE Manager
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Just imagine the Australian National Party hiring
Spencer as an advance guard, and utilising him to
show up the methods and expose the lief of the
great Stinking Fish cohort! One of the finest
films ever shown m Sydney is on view at the
Palace just now, and gives a magnificent illustra-
tion of a great fire in a Yankee manufacturing
quarter. It doesn t represent a fire—it is
and on Saturday night ,t was hard to keep some
firemen who were in the audience from rushing™ t
the screen with a hose. h
** * *
At Sydney Royal “A Prisoner of
£ e ” d - 4 S T? U g ,° e Tv Stron ?- Jt will ma ke way
for A Royal Divorce” on Saturday week
It is some years since this romantic and
romancing play which makes a pure heroine of
that very ‘‘swift lady, Josephine Beauharnais
and a maudlin sentimentalist of Napoleon has
been seen in Sydney Miss Ola Humphrey is
Napoleon P Josephlne ’ and Julius Knight,
** * *
Miss Margaret Parker and Co. brina
Sunshine to Sydney Tivoli this week ; but it
isn t good, strong Australian sunshine-it seems
to have been put through either a filter or a fog
on the way down The “sketch” is about the
shock Mrs. Grundy gets when she finds that a
young woman of 17 or so is living at a studio with
a paternal person who has adopted her and cared
for her from chickenhood. The thing might well
have finished with a contemptuous laugh in Mrs.
Grundy s face; instead, things are made all right for
the nasty-minded person by the discovery that the
paternal person is the young woman’s real father.
It is sickly stuff. J. P. Ling, the other new-
comer tunes an orchestra with his mouth-at
least he makes the orchestra-tuning noises, and
does other mimicry of good quality. The sisters
Klos are still worth the bill’s big letters ; but they
are in their last nights, and are due to pack them-
selves up, or hang themselves in the wardrobe or
do something that isn’t specified in the advts.
** * *
In “ The Little Bread Winner,” produced
at Melbourne Royal last Saturday night, there is
more than a shade of resemblance to “ The Fatal
Wedding. That is to say, there is the same
impossibly precocious infant, the same exaspera-
ting exposition of angelic merits, and the same
unutterable depravity on the bad man’s part •
but there is less of that desperate idiocy
which lifted “The Wedding” to a proud
er T. nenc ® 011 the roof of the lunatic asylum
“Ihe Bread Winner” commences with ari
old gent of unthinkable propriety—a Quaker
philanthropist—who, withai, is a peer of the
British realm. The devotional state and un-
assailable moral perfection of Lord Dorrington
are terrible to witness. In comparison with him
the Ten Commandments have been out drinking,
and the moral code comes home regularly on ali
fours when daylight doth appear. At least once
a day he has Bible readings and prayer.
All his female servants are attired in
hideous uniforms of unlovely brown. The
cat is put out carefully at' 10 p.ni. All
liquors but milk, water, and weak tea, are barred ;
in fact, everything is rigidly suppressed except
pious reflections and three dull brown meals a day.
It is in this shocking and monastic environment
that the old noble’s granddaughter, Margaret
Daventry, and his adopted son, Richard Law-
rence, grow up in beauty side by side. Margaret
is hopelessly ingenuous, rather morbid, and
inclined to tears. On the other hand, Richard
betrays a healthy regard for an occasional
bet, and he has even, once or twice, stained his
life with beer, at the instigation of the old man’s
secretary, Joseph Pryor—an oleaginous crea-
ture, whose public sanctity contrasts humorously
with his many private and distinguished vices.
He it is who helps himself to the old man’s
charitable bequests, and who, throughout the
whole drama, moves with diabolical greasiness,
plotting to supplant the youth in the old man’s
affections, and thus inherit much cash and real
estate. J. Pryor seduces one of the domestics,
Kate Cherry, whom he makes his accomplice in
questionable undertakings. Acting under his
directions, Kate follows Richard to the York
races, and returns to acquaint Lord Dorrington
with his misdemeanors. She tells him that Dicky
had been punting deliriously; that he had even
entered a pub to “name his poison”; and caps
the narrative with the startling disclosure that he
had made her the victim of his passions. There-
upon, Dicky, who has meanwhile arrived with a
voluble bookmaker person, is expelled from the
Presence for ever and always. Margaret, by
whom he is beloved, falls upon his bosom, declar-
ing that his banishment shall also be hers. Act 11.
shows them, after eleven years of wedlock, in a
plenitude of wretchedness and of dire poverty,
the wife blind, the husband workless, and the
inevitable kid lightening the abysmal gloom
with song. The kid, with the bookmaker,
who has forsaken the turf to share
his pal’s poverty, are the main supports of the
household. Thereafter, the proceedings become
mawkishly pathetic and weepful, and the kid
sings “Daddy” to dead slow music. After further
malfeasances by J. Pryor, a reconciliation, fatuous
in its intense sentimentalism, takes place. An
uproarious climax is effected by the rescue of
Dicky from the hands of Pryor and his mistress,
what time the infant covers the twain with two
revolvers. Much more might be stated, but
really further references to the subject are weari-
some and painful. It only occurs to this paper to
enquire what Melbourne has done to provoke a
repetition of these banal kid-dramas ?
* * * *
An outstanding feature of the entertain-
ment is the ability of the small girl, Queenie
Williams. Throughout this tiny child acts with
surprising skill and dignity. She receives much
assistance from another clever child, Maggie
Dickinson. With the exception of James Lind-
say as Joseph Pryor, and Miss Beatrice Holloway
as Margaret Daventry, the rest of the co. is just
fair. Thtj oily malevolence of Pryor is exposed by
Lindsay with Considerable art; while the win-
sornenessand style of Miss Holloway are appealing.
Sometimes her tony English and rather exag-
gerated plaintiveness are disturbing factors. The
interludes of alleged humor are just a trifle above
monstrous mediocrity.
** * *
A loud laugh and large legs allure the
vacant mind. The business of purveying allure-
ments to the intellect that isn’t and couldn’t and
bourn« W Rn h rf S f kepfc Miss Baines bu§ y at the Mel-
bourne Bijou for seven weeks. But shortly she
bu Lfne mifnf USIn? ma « mirth the mere Get of
i„ 4 fan insu fficient evening dress. She
eve g r m th?* !? St ’ l e \ ving a la rger v «'d than
denta lv SL ™ m< !t ° f her admire rs, and inci-
grief U y I lg the earnest Playgoer of a great
Brewster’s Millions ” have been carted
, °' V " ) to Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), whereto they
are pursued by battalions of both sexes, with coins
knnf rP^ W f' The unsuspecting individual who
mt °* the Exhibition-street house in
search of pantomime will not be disappointed
'TTntfi eP fh ln th ? matter of fairies’ calves,
until the co. becomes more used to the
new pitch a good deal of Brewster’s frantic humor
is disguised. But everyone is as noisy and active
as before, except that Tommy Kingston is show-
ing a vicious tendency to Parsifool in the quick
millionaires fleeting periods of sentimentality.
n bnt /, W ' H continue capering until “John
Glayde s Honor becomes a burning question, or
until some enraged simpleton attacks his person
r W ‘ tb ™lence for no , fc fulfilling the advt. which
apply ford* 0 mUcb ° 4 tbe un i verse as cares to
** * *
West’s Biograph still converts the barn-
hke circus building into the home of eighteen
consecutive nations. . It will continue this amaz-
ing teat until such a time as the whole solvent
population of Melbourne has been seduced into
globe-trotting, and the insolvent portion has com-
mitted hari-kari upon the dinner-knife of envy.
** * *
Max Schluter gave his final Recital on
Saturday night, and his artistic followers waxed
and swelled with enthusiasm. He is a clever young
man, but there is a Lack. It’s mostly careless-
ness (a jarred, or unfinished, or incorrect note
sti uck in his melodious intoxication). He rushes at
times into wild abandon. But the Danish fiddler
scored a triumph complete for one number —Bach’s
Ghaconne—a masterpiece bristling with intri-
cacies. His other programme was comparatively
mediocre. Hal Hlvins accompanied the Star
then rushed into a huge Listz iihapsodie on his
own—a rather stupendous undertaking. Miss
Kingsley had a considerable say with her delicate
soprano. The youthful trio now betake themselves
farther afield.
** * *
Mr. and Mrs. Gregor-Wood gave a pathetic
song recital on Thursday evening. They sang
together and they sang apart. Bor their duets
they ran coyly on to the platform with hands
clasped. Mrs. possesses a voice of great range
and uncertain attack with a way of taking a
hurdle at the middle register. Mr. yearned
through sentimental ditties in a voice reminiscent
of too much butter with his dinner. The programme
boasted a Rumford-like decoration of two heads
with but a single thought silhouetted together.
Bertie Zelman played his violin divinely, and re-
deemed the recital from boredom; and Horace
Gleeson slapped the piano.
** * *
Alma Grey and the Artois Brothers
occurred on Saturday at Melbourne Opera House,
and streaked its twilight with a little radiance.
The Australian girl was taken to the heaving
tweed bosom of the audience without ado.
What execution she failed to do with her attenu-
ated voice was compassed by her neat dancing.
The Artois were welcomed more for their quaint
comedy, which is good, than for their serial feats,
which are better. The Opera House has of late
been developing the bull-neck of athleticism to
the detriment of its flow of humor, and any miti-
gation of the dominating muscle is cheerfully
hailed. Edwin (who is in his last lap), the
Kaufmanns, and Tom Dawson complete the list of
great and good performers. •
** # *
Frank Thornton in armor is a right
merry varlet, and shrewd withal. His dream-play
has filled Adelaide Royal for a week, and he is
now working out his season with the Aunt, and
the Secretary, old and crusted specimens of the
perennial humor of the Small Man in a Tight
Place. The Large Lady who adds extra flavor to
the joke in some instances is Miss Belle Donald-
son. The Tivoli has Walker and Sturm juggling,
and Irving Sayles and Bruce Drysdale making
merry in their various ways ; and it is always full.
Iceberg Irvine, who, according to the
Tory press, never deviates from a principle once
he has nailed his colors to it, had to double badly
on himself in the High Court, t’other day. When
Premier of Victoria, Irvine imposed a special tax
on public servants by means of percentage deduc-
tions from their salaries. He justified that on the
ground that percentage deductions did not consti-
tute a special tax. In the recent Excise Act
cases, he argued that the levying of excise
on agricultural implements made by sweaters
was a special tax on a special class, and was
therefore unconstitutional. To the lay mind, the
imposition of excise on the goods of sweating
manufacturers and the levying of deductions from
the salaries of sweated public servants are very
much the same sort of thing so far as the revenue
is concerned, but no doubt to the barrister mind
of a man like the Iceberg there is a difference.
Victoria’s new Licensing Act, passed by
Bent, begins to look like a window after ten bricks
have been shot through it. When the Act came
into force several hotelkeepers were fined simply
because two or more persons had been found on
their premises on Sunday, the presence of the
persons being accepted as absolute evidence of
Sunday trading. Someone tested this feature of
the Act, with the result that there was after-
wards a big rent in it. Still the magistrates went
on imposing fines on persons found on the
premises on Sunday ; but now Madden, C.-J.,
has dealt a nasty blow at the provisions
of the Act under which this has been occurring.
A man found on the premises of an hotel at Gee-
long admitted that he had gone there for a drink,
and said to the hotelkeeper, “Any hope of a
drink?’’ and that the genial beer-puller had
answered, “No chance whatever.” The magis-
trates fined the man, but on appeal Madden, C.-J.,
declared that it was no offence to go to a pub on
Sunday and ask for a drink, especially if the
gentleman who ran the place remarked “No
chance whatever.” Result, another ragged hole
in the Licensing Act.
AT POVERTY POINT.
.nH^ efcerPa^l’v: lopened . my P a P er the other morning-
and devoured the staggering- news that W. C. Healvaml
F. B reenian had broken the world’s record for continuous
E°J P Jdffiths h IS d W h f f oWed UP by a " ann °uncement
that J. Griffiths had broken the record of Burrows ar
club-swinging by four and a half minutes. The next dav
the records were supplemented with the performance o'f
one Pearson, who plodded his way from Sydney to Mel-
bourne on a bike, and snared another record by lopping
ofif nearly a day from the previous best time. Thecata*
logue ended there, but promises of more oozed from all
over the sheet. This leads up to the question : What can
oe done to prevent such a prodigal waste of time in
citizens who ought to be zealously fighting the family
woodheapi Excepting the gate money, what benefit
could a man get if he twirled a club with one hand
played a piano with the other, and rode a bike all at the
nfr. Think of the honor,” is the plaintive gag!
to which I fervently reply, “ Get work.” *’
“ : , Th „ e la . te Charles Huenerbein was in his day
one of the best pianoforte accompanists in Australia
Apiong other exploits, lie was largely responsible for the
introduction of German pianos to this country This
achievement cannot be regarded as productive of un-
nnxed joy ; but he also had a good deal to do
with another introduction to which no possible ex-
ception can be taken— i.e., the presentation to
the public of the budding Melba. His first import-
ant professional engagement was with cornetist
Levy, when that cultured gentleman shed the lustre
of his ponum on Australia. Huenerbein was then only
in his teens, and when Levy saw him for the first time he
in his own suave vernacular, wanted to know “ what the
blanky biank they meant by sending him a blanky bov 1 ”
When, however, he heajd Huenerbein play he went into
another key, and proclaimed him “a blanky wonder ' 1 ”
Huenerbein was at one time a member of a famous trio—
not musical, but revenue-producing—the other members
of which were Demosthenes D. O’Connor and the Hon.
K. H. D. White— Hoddle Doddle ”to wit.
“ Pro ” (another version): Cabled that J. B. Howe is
dead. He came twice to Australia, and mentions in an
entertaining autobiography that he was inexplicably
known in the profession as Tom Howe. A plain little
man, somewhat aquiline, and probably of Hebraic extrac-
tion. His Hamlet, Othello, lago, and Richard 111 were
creditable impersonations. He was about as good as
Bairclough, and remarkably versatile; he acted well
such diverse parts as Newman Noggs, in “Nicholas
Nickleby, and Sir Simon Simple in “ Not Such a B’ool as
He Looks.” Between his two Australian visits he took
part in the performance of the spectacle of “ Babil and
Bijou,” at Covent Garden. Lord Londesborough lost
£30,000 over it. The star was Miss Robertha Erskine
Blanche and Boucicault were the authors. One beautiful
thing survived out of it—Riviere’s song, “Sprint Gentle
Spring,” by a chorus of boys. B’our gorgeous transform-
ations scenes were introduced Spring, Summer
Autumn, and Winter. There have been various Howes
in tlie profession. Another was Henry Howe, 40 years at
the Haymarket, afterwards with Irving. The brother of
novelist Ben Far jeon was known on the Australian stage
as Walter Howe. Yet another Howe was once imported
by Bland Holt. J. B. Howe lost all his savings in
management at the Garrick Theatre, London East End—
not the West End Garrick, identified with Hare.
“Jean S. ” : This last effort of Miss Maud Hildyard at
the Royal, Melbourne, “ The Great Awakening” to wit
is certainly unsightly and nonsensical, even allowing for
the gigantic scope allowed to melodramatic lunacy
B’ancy a siren who, after laying out the heir-presumptive
to a baronetcy with a tomahawk, proceeds to England
and, upon the small credentials of her bare word and an
excessively painted face, asserts that she is his widow
with a title to the jewels, shooting-boxes, and sundries
which her victim would have eventually inherited. Then
consider the license with which this facile and frescoed
creature accuses her convict husband of her own homicide
and has him arrested. For a capital offence he, of course is
only gaoled, to escape later, so that he can strangle the
Great Awakenerin the last act. Add to this the unpleasant-
ries of the comic relief, the tasteless and silly cynicisms
belonging to a condition of unmixed depravity, and the
madness of the last act (a ghastly Zolaesque exhibition
by the way) and the “ Great Waking Up ” seems as crude
and unreasonable as the distorted countenance of a
maniac seen through a horse-collar.
“Sr ” : Melbourne Eight-Hours folk are attempting
something new in their amusement department in con-
nection with the forthcoming fete. They intend to put
on “ The Eureka Stockade.” Bohemian Cole, the long-
haired mummer who does “ East Lynne ” in a tent, has the
management of “The Eureka.” I heard an official explain
the great second act. “ These men, y’see, will then rush
up, fire a piercing volley, and fall dead. Then the
cavalry and artillery will rush up, and the horses will
pig-jump and fall dead. Then the commander of the
Government forces will be seen waving his sword at the
back of his army, and he’ll fall dead,” etc. 1 haven’t the
slightest doubt that the show will be a boshter. In fact
a play in which everybody falls dead is bound to be a
blitherer.
Melb. Paunch, informing its readers that John Wren
has joined Meynell and Gunn’s theatrical enterprise, adds:
“ This is great news for the theatre-going public, who"
may confidently expect the best of everything now.”
Amazing faith 1
The new Sydney Criterion bellowdrama is a rechauffe of
a weird yarn which appeared a decade ago in a volume of
stories entitled “ Aut Diabolus, Aut Nihil.” “The Kiss
of Judas,” the first of the series, dealt with a strange
devilish being who was alleged to live in Moldavia,’
and to be descended from the original red-haired
villain of Scripture. In appearance he was—like Woulfe
Curzola, his fellow countryman at the Cri.—plain to the
point of ghastliness. He possessed Woulfe’s gift of doiic-
supernatural stunts—a futile one, by the way, as no dis-
cernible profit accrues therefrom to himself or anyone
else. His embrace—like Woulfe's—meant certain death.
“ The Kiss of Judas ” appeared originally in a high-class
British Quarterly, under the initials “X. Y.Z.,” and created
something of a stir in the literary world, the story being
told with a Poe-like power and grimness. The author’s
identity has since remained one of the minor mysteries
of the reading world ; nor is the fact that “George de-
Gray Esq.,” has got to work on “ X.Y.Z’s. brain-child
likely 7 to make the unknown any less elusive.
John Wren, theatrical manager, says the mission
of his firm is “ to give the people what they want.”
« tv, 'I * somewhat vague statement, seeing that scores
of theatrical managers have gone bankrupt striving to
find out what the public wanted. Mostly, however, the
words are used as a bad excuse for staging plays that are
otherwise entirely inexcusable.
“One o’the Gods”: Saw “The Lady Dandies ” three
times in London, and hold that the Sydney production
equals, and in some respects surpasses, the one at the
headquarters of leg-showdom (the collective Australian
chorus-voice, for instance, is lengths ahead of that
of England); but the bloomers that have been made
in the apportioning of parts are simply terrific. For
instance, Eglb is the rSle which that bright little
morsel of Dresden china, Gabrielle Ray, created in Fog - -
town. There is only one damsel in this hemisphere
absolutely and perfectly suited to play EgU—viz.
ranny Dango—quite the daintiest dancer who
has left English shores in the last decade, and
an actress with a certain Gallic verve about her.
But to ran has been given Denise Orme’s original part
(II yrine), and the lady’s pretty but light voice is not
naff strong enough for it, and she is unsuitable in other
respects. I took my seat at Her Majesty’s on Monday
night full of expectation and high hope. But as the per-
formance waxed, I grew dispirited and morose. The
reckless waste of good Fan impressed me as lamentable
and scandalous.
An Australian theatrical manager writes :—“Can it be
possible, in the devout city of Melbourne, with its
multitude of churches and many saintly clerics, who so
glibly and with so much refined eloquence preach gentle-
ness and humanity, that such brutal exhibitions as buck-
jumping performances are not only tolerated, but are
encouraged, by the patronage of leading citizens and
even, I shame to say, of leading citizenesses also, who are
termed, by some mistake or another, the ‘gentler sex ’?
It appears to me there are some callous, unfeeling, un-
sentimental brutes, who style themselves sportsmen and
sportswomen, whose sole miserable idea of sport is
giving pain and panic to some wretched dumb animal that
cannot resent the savage, cowardly tyranny of such lords
and ladies of creation. To these people, it seems to be
the very best of fun to be tormenting a noble horse
up to a frenzied buck-jumping pitch, to be
coursing to the death a terrified panting hare, or to be
slaughtering or maiming with the gun a batch of defence-
less sparrows unable to escape the murderous hail of shot
poured in upon the fluttering, frantic little creatures by
such heroes of the trigger. It makes my gorge rise to
reflect that we have ever amongst us an arm} 7 of social
reformers all too ready, and officiously willing, to devote
their misplaced energies to the framing of vexatious laws
to govern, according to their own narrow parochial
notions, the daily lives and the Sunday beer of their
fellow-men, and yet not a voice is raised to denounce the
agonies nightly endured at buckjunipir.g shows by man’s
best, truest, and most loyal dumb friend, the florse, and
all to gratify the morbid, blood-thirsty appetites of those
who are so pitiless and merciless as" to enjoy' such dis-
gusting and degrading entertainments. I maintain
that a buckjumping - exhibition is nothing - more than an
awful, appalling and abominable cruelty, and serves no
purpose, save to pander to the diseased desires of those
wholove to look at suffering, but who themselves would be
the first to shrink, cringe and cower with craven terror at
the slightest threat of the smallest pin-prick of pain to
their own selfish carcases. How the authorities permit
such odious torture of poor, helpless, patient horses I
cannot comprehend. We have a society for the preven-
tion of cruelty to animals, but it would appear that,
beyond that it collects money, no other purpose
comes of its oyster-like existence. Another exhi-
bition of human savagery which, in my. mind,
was a stain on our sporting escutcheon was that
exhibition of throwing, lassoing and, in some in-
stances, injuring, a mob of half-mad, bellowing, terrified
bullocks, which was witnessed by the cr&me de la crdme
of Melbourne’s sporting world on the Richmond race-
course a few days ago. According to the report of the
Melbourne Age of this enchanting spectacle, when some
of the wreched bullocks were prostrate and helpless on
the ground, several choice spirits amongst the howling
mob present dragged the hairs out of the tails of the
quivering beasts. What a fine, dashing, daring, heroic
lot of Australian sportsmen must have graced the Rich-
mond racecourse on that eventful day ! ”
The extraordinary spectacle of three pro-
fessed Freetraders whooping for a 15 per cent,
duty was witnessed in the Senate last week.
Senator McColl proposed that steel rails, recom-
mended bv the Reps, for 15 per cent, duty, should
be admitted free. Immediately three Free-
traders uprose and denounced the suggestion as
iniquitous and dastardly, or words to that effect,
since it would deprive a growing iron industry of
its rightful measure of Protection. McColl's motion
was lost by 21 votes to 3. The growing industry
was the Lithgow iron works in the Ma State.
The three Freetraders who cried out for Protec-
tion were also of the Ma State. They were Jaw-
bone Neild, Millen, and Soapy Grey. Thus,
on second thoughts, the spectacle was not so
extraordinary after all. For these Freetraders
know at heart that Protection is the only means
by which new industries can be built up, and
their Freetrade is merely the old rag of foolish
and insanitary habit.
Journalist Howard Willoughby, a man of
more than ordinary calibre, died in Melbourne
last week. He was born in Birmingham (Eng-
land) in 1839, and came to Australia about 18
years later. In ’6l he became a Melbourne Age
Parliamentary reporter, but transferred to the
Argus the following year. He joined the Vic-
torian Hansard staff on its formation in ’66, and
resigned in ’69 to take the editorship of the newly-
born Daily Telegraph. He rejoined the Argus
as senior leader-writer in ’B5, and climbed
into the editor’s chair in ’9B. Five years
later paralysis hit him hard, and sent him search-
ing for health in North Queensland and other
more or less remote places. The search was only
partially successful; he was able, after a while,
to reappear as a contributor, but the old,
strenuous days were gone. Willoughby’s “ Timo-
theus” sketches of Parliamentary life, which
spread over some 21 years, brought him
journalistic fame; he was special correspondent
for the Argus in the Waikato (M.L.) campaign ;
published a work on Australian Federation in
1892, and, at other odd times, “The British Con-
vict in Westralia ” (results of a special personal
investigation), “ Critiques on Spiritualism,” and
“ The Critic in the Church.” In 1870 he married
Miss Emily Jones, who, with their three children,
survives him
A cable to the daily press—printed with
the vagueness and inaccuracy which is usual
when any unfamiliar subject is dealt with
—states that “Night-riders” have destroyed
£10,000,000 worth of property in Kentucky
(U.S.A.) within the last few months. The
“Night riders” are a development arising
from the tactics of the American Tobacco
Trust. That Trust and the Regie—another Trust
which Ims a monopoly of buying raw material for
the various Government tobacco factories in
Europe—came to an agreement to keep down the
prices paid to tobacco growers. So low were
prices brought as to make the industry
unreinunerative. The Kentucky growers then
combined, strong in the knowledge that
their soil produced a special and valuable
leaf to be found nowhere else. The Trust and the
Regie tried to break up the Growers’ Combine,
and seduced away some of its members with special
and greatly enhanced prices. To meet this moye
the Growers’ Combine organised the “Night-
riders,” who sally out after dark, armed and on
horseback, and burn down the houses of “black-
leg ” growers, flog the offenders, and also destroy
the tobacco factories of the Trust. It’s a character-
istically American method of settling a trade
dispute, and if it is true that £10,000,000 worth of
damage has been done recently, the Night-riders
have been busy.
A SWEET DISSEMBLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Saint Lizette, although your chin's
So firm, admirers tremble ;
Your lips, you know, are sister sins.
So why dissemble ?
You street with frigid finger-tips,
Your whole expression saintly ;
And, shy and shamed of such red lips,
You color faintly.
Though your seraphic soul believe
The kiss of love unsexing,
Your sweet heart-blood will undeceive :
’Tis too perplexing !
But Cupid hath a deadly aim,
His shaft’s not always missed you :
I knew your woman's heart was flame
That night I kissed you.
A moment as a mated bird
You nestled undissembling,
Then fled, all crimsoned, at a word
All shamed and trembling.
Perhaps wild wooing came amiss,
Strange music made you tremble.
Since you have learned the way to kiss,
Why, miss, dissemble ?
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


Linen Collars for Men
1.
2.
3.
4.
Our Collars have a good Linen surface. We maintain the same value in
our Collars notwithstanding the rise in Linen and the higher tariff. We
have all the well-known shapes and sizes, and send them carriage paid.
(1) The “ Moldavia,” as illustrated, is 2, 2|, 2|, and 2f inches high 11/6 dozen.
(2) The “Ovita,” as illustrated. One depth only .....11/6 dozen.
(3) The “ Oroya,” as illustrated, is 2, 2£, and 2f inches high 11/6 dozen.
(4) The “ St. James,” as illustrated, is If, 2,2 f, 2£, and 2f inches high 11/6 dozen.
We Keep AM Sizes in Stock. ALL COLLARS ARE 11 6 PER DOZENi
And Sent
Post Free.
DAVID JONES LTD., SYDNEY.
As the Kaiser’s occasional eruptions
startle the British Empire into the improvement
of its defences, it is to be hoped he will not seek
wiser counsels from D.C.L. Whisky. This is
about the only instance where the brilliancy of
conception imparted by that brand is better un
achieved. But our own legislators should never
omit to consult that spirit of progress which
carries the peaceful banner of *
Make it a rule of your home to keep
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy as a safeguard against bowel complaint.
SOCIETY
DRIVEN BY
NECESSITY.
THE WHITE HAT: “ I thought it
was young Golden you were marrying—not
his father.”
THE BLACK HAT: “So it was. But the old boy
cut Dick off with a shilling and left me no
choice, you see.”
The capture of lies, of Ballarat, will be
welcomed by one section of the community—the
gentlemen who escort Matilda along the high-
roads of Victoria. For weeks past every swag-
man in the country districts was furtively ex-
amined by passers-by ; and if he tried to dodge
observation the suspicion became a certainty, and
there was a rush for the nearest police station. If
a swagman were observed boiling his billy in a
secluded part of the bush (as is the wont of swag-
men everywhere) he was declared to be lies ; and
again the weary police were hustled to the scene.
A swagman who entered a store or a pub (and
sometimes they do both) was scrutinised by all
and sundry ; and if he had a missing front tooth
(as some swagmen have) there was much agitation
and another frenzied rush for a John. Swagmen
that went through a village without stopping
caused grave suspicion ; and swagmen who looked
solemn (which nearly all swagmen do) were be-
lieved to be lies weighed down by an accusing
conscience. In one small district 14 swagmen
were reported as being lies, and a man who was
sceptical as to a particularly tall swagman being
“ lies for a certainty,” had his eye blackened by
the man who told the police.
* * * *
“D.” communes with the world at large :
The opening of the legal term suggests the thought
that Sydney is surely a city which outstrips most
others in the matter of that contradiction in
terms, the amateur professional man. Take a cruise
down Phillip-street—the lair of the horsehair fancier.
Everywhere you will observe names printed on little
plates which are never printed in the law reports, nor
ever will be. Their owners are verging on middle
age often enough. Sometimes they are married
(if so, the wife, or a suffering sire, or both,
finds the wherewithal). Sometimes they are try-
ing to marry (the favored lady must have cash).
Mostly they have given up romance in desperation, and
addressed themselves doggedly to the problem of looking
genteel and wearing a presentable suit, unbust footwear
and a leather bag, on a tenuous parental allowance or
inheritance, and the proceeds of a week’s job triennially
as Crown Prosecutor.
A man with any sort of influence who finds himself
hopelessly briefless at 30 may safely write himself down
a bar amateur. Sometimes he has the horse-sense to see
things in their correct proportions. Shortly afterwards
he goes on the land. Far more often he lurks inertly
in the dusty little den (his “chambers”), which he entered
with high hopes a decade ago, and into which no solicitor
or solicitor’s clerk ever penetrates, and grows soured and
spectacled and intellectually sodden. And so he
develops into that pathetic thing the “ professional ”
man, who is an unprofitable dilettante at his profession ;
who is known in a small circle as a deft diabolo
player, perchance, or as a keen theatre-goer, or a
cricket judge, or any other old thing except a barrister.
The number of able-bodied males who might be earning
money blasting or digging something, or feeding animals
somewhere, but who prefer to slaughter Time by sitting
purposelessly on cane chairs in Phillip-street is one of the
sad facts of urban existence.
• * » m
The ptomaine is a sociably-inclined germ.
It attends summer picnics, and travels quietly in
the ham sandwich without a ticket, and lurks
modestly in the halls of the cold tongue. Robert
Harper’s employees went down Port Phillip (Vic.)
recently for the day, and with them went the
quiet little germ. The picnickers ate freely. In
the evening, when the steamer was on the home-
ward journey, and the picnic was out on a calm,
glassy sea, miles away from help, people com-
menced to hold the middle button of the waistcoat
or the dead centre of the corset with both hands,
and cry unto their Maker. Then they lay down on
the deck, and took swift rolling exercise. Nearly
every family had a roller on its hands, and when
a doctor boarded the boat at Port Melbourne, he
found fiO or so prostrate beings. Ambulance
waggons, hansoms, and cabs took a number home,
but there were enough left over to keep six
hospital doctors and a flock of nurses busy till
after midnight.
♦ ft 9 ft
T’other day, at Mitchelltown (M.L.) State
school, a 12-year-old boy showed the infant next
him a pill-box bearing a skull and cross-bones
design, and labelled “Poison.” “This,” he
said, “is poison. If you take it, it’ll kill you.”
; Unfortunately, the other infant didn’t believe
the statement, and whispered back, “Liar.”
This was more than the owner of the pill-
box could stand, so, at lunch-time, just to
prove he was tejling the truth, he dragged
the unbeliever to a secluded corner, and,
after spreading some of the poison on a
piece of bread, he consumed the lot. At
the inquest the Child Who Did Not Take
: Things For Granted was not called as a wit-
ness, and the jury decided that “death was
caused by acute dilation of the stomach.”
The local papers held forth in thoughtful
and erudite articles o«i “this rare illness”
until the Kid Who Would Not Be Had
casually mentioned the incident of the pill
box to an adult, who told the police. Then
the Government Analyst investigated, and
came to the conclusion that the dead young-
ster had eaten Rough on Rats to prove his
bonafides , and had died with his secret locked
up in his stomach.
“ Glenrock,” at Darling Point, Sydney,
which is in the market, under the will of Mrs.
E. P. Marks, was originally the home of Thomas
Whistler Smith, of the old-time merchant prince
firm of Smith, Croft, and Co., 390 George-street.
Very few of the old homes of the merchant princes
of the ’fifties are occupied now by the families of the
original owners. Most of them have degenerated
into hash-turrets, or fallen even lower than that.
Some have even got down to “ Good Beds, 6d.”
Costs raised a particularly ugly and venom-
ous head in Adelaide, the other day, but happily
it was stood upon. In the big “corset case ()
two years ago. the defendants, a local firm, got
£3650 allowed them as Costs, and interest trom
the day when the Court finally settled the amoun
of the bill to the date of payment. But it took a
year or more to wrangle over the items of the m ,
and now the winners, having collected then bos s
and interest, had the nerve to take 011 1 a
writ against the other party’s goods for C<> >•>
more, being interest on the Costs for that
preliminary year during which the bill couldn t >e
paid because nobody rightly knew what it came
to. The Court thought this was going too tar.
and threw the writ out. Also it gave Costs
against the people who had alieady got Costs, and
who wanted more Costs —presumably for trying
to leap on a fallen enemy with larger boots than
the rules of the game allow.
“ OFF."
CYNICAL WAITER: “ Wot' ll yer ’ave, boss?”
FAT DINER : “ Dunno. Wot ye got!"
CYNICAL WAITER : “ The bloomin' pip?”
The other Sunday, at Bendigo (Vic.),
R.C. Bishop Reville made some statements which,
if he was accurately reported, ran as follows :
There were many evils to be grappled with. The State
statistics, although incomplete, already told of a large
number of illegitimate children being flung on society,
and that represented only one feature of the terrible evil
existing at the present time. . . . What was the cause of
this deplorable state of affairs? It was in a measure due
to the loss of faith, the spread of rationalism, agnosticism,
the frequency of divorce, and the limitation of the birth
rate. ... They required the help of all Catholic men and
women in order to stem the tide of iniquity and vice
which threatened to overflow the land.
Then some hostile individual took up the matter in
Melbourne Agk. This person asserted that with
the spread of rationalism, agnosticism, etc., there
should be, according to the prelate’s argument, a
corresponding increase in the evils he deplored.
Then he dug these facts out of the Victorian
official Year Book
The proportion of illegitimate births per 1000 un-
married and widowed women between the ages of 15 and
45 was 14'49 in 1891, and 10'Sl in 1901. The reduction
during the two latest census periods was about 29 per cent.
He also stated that the crime statistics show a
decrease in every instance during the period 1900
to 1905 (which also is a fact), and asked bluntly,
“Is it not time our bishops faced the facts?”
But then how can they face the facts ? Said facts
are that the world has become more intelligent,
less criminal, and less immoral, and has also
washed oftener, the more it shook off the rule and
influence of bishops and such like. “ Australia
facing the Dawn ” would be nothing to the Church
facing that awful discrepancy.
* * * *
George Knight, the handy kid who is
charged with shooting his fellow-servant Ann, the
cook, at Burwood, Sydney, was a voluminous
diarist and correspondent. A whole heap of
manuscript was found about the premises after
George was run in. In a small way he seems to
have represented the State Rights movement,
while cooky and the housemaid represented the
Commonwealth. George appears to have seen
wrongs and encroachments accumulating darkly
on every side. The quality of the tea proved to
him that the federated cook and housemaid were
intent on violating the Constitution, and
in the inferior quality of the cold meat
he recognised clearly that he was going
to be done out of the Federal capital.
Writing fiercely in the kitchen, he recorded
that he had been dragged down to ruin and was
going to do a fearsome deed on “ tuesday.” It
was a vast mass of shrieky literature, and clearly
showed that boy George had grievances. In the
end he seceded, or seized the wire-netting, or
something ; anyhow he was hauled up in rather a
small, absurd fashion before the Children’s Court
where the young pirates and bushrangers go
nowadays.
Two of Adelaide’s best-known buildings
have been swept away, letting in the light on un-
suspected and shrinking back-block premises.
They are the Register office and the Globe Hotel.
The newspaper is to rise again in a glorified form
on the same site ; it is worrying along in the
building next door meanwhile. But the Globe,
the sporting hostelry in the busiest part of
Rundle-street, which has seen so many thousands
of pounds change hands in Adelaide Cup weeks of
the past, is absorbed in the devouring maw of
James Marshall’s drapery business. Rags can
outbid even Beer in these, days. Foy and Gibson’s
immense new cube of brickwork is the first thing
which catches the eye now on any general view of
Adelaide, the Post Office tower coming a moder-
ate second.
*■ » * •
Merri Creek is one of the saddest water-
courses in the Commonwealth. It winds mostly
through Coburg (Vic.), and in the summer Coburg
holds its nose and
wishes it would wind
somewhere else. The
local health officer
was recently struck
by the unusual pre-
valence of typhoid,
as many as ten cases
being reported in
one fortnight. He
also noticed that
most of the patients
were boys, and,
knowing the boy’s
weakness for swim-
ming in any sort
of ditch, he went to
the only stream the
rocky suburb pos-
sesses, and examined
it. He found that
the creek ic prac-
tically ah open sewer
for the thickly-popu
lated district through
which it lingers. At
one point the muni-
cipal tip lies on the
bank and smokes in
the sun. It is a feed-
ing ground for thou-
sands of rats, and
when Heaven weeps
over it, much tip is washed into the creek
bed. Then the small boy bathes in the creek, and
the cow drinks it and dreams in it, and the Chow
pours it over his lettuce. Coburg has been Using
the dreadful rivulet as a drain for many years,
but it now seems up to that suburb to reform and
buy some drain pipes,
• * * *
In an action for slander, heard in Mel-
bourne, toother day, the folly of age in pursuit of
a Hebe was greatly exemplified. It seems that
three elderly gentlemen. A, B, and C, were on
more or less friendly terms with a lady of the
beer-pulling persuasion. Gentleman A, alleged
to be a married man, had, according to the lady
herself, paid her £275 for alleged breach of promise
of marriage. To this sum, the other two veterans,
B and C, had contributed £l5O, as each, according
to the allegation of C, had misconducted himself
with the lady. Following that, she issued a writ
against B, also for breach of promise. It was in
connection with the case against him that C was
alleged to have made a statement reflecting upon
the lady’s chastity. C’salleged statement was to the
effect that, if she persisted in taking her complaint
against B into court, a jaunt which she and he (C)
had made to a certain house in South Yarra might
be bathed in the blinding glare of publicity. Con-
sequently the lady turned her attentions to C, and
proceeded against him for slander. An astonished
Judge and jury found against her. Having failed
against C in a cash sense, she next attempted to
obtain satisfaction by smashing his hat with her
umbrella. Now people are wondering whether
there are any more astonishing disclosures to come.
The case seems like one that might break out any
where any day.
AMATEUR THEATRICALS.
AMATEUR CALL BOY: “I say! Are you Appius
Claudius ? ”
AMATEUR TRAGEDIAN : “'Appy as Claudius! Do
I look it?”
Whatever astuteness the Yic. police may
have neglected to display in running down Willie
lies —they were put on his track by an amateur—
they showed amazing strategy in conveying him
from Gippsland to Melbourne. He was landed at
South Yarra, and bundled off to the lock-up in a
cab. Then two policemen guarded a mock prisoner
on to Flinders-street where a number of people
were waiting to see lies, rushed the imitation cele-
brity through the crowd to a cab, and bustled the
bogus person off. Heaven only knows what they
gained by it, seeing that there was no suspicion of
any trouble, and, anyhow, if the infuriated popu-
lace had attacked them the bogus prisoner would
have been as great an encumbrance as the real
one ; also, the real man being already in a place
of security, the danger—if there was any danger—
was averted before this elaborate joke was perpe-
trated. But a love of doing large, dark, neavy
things seems incurable with the Melbourne bobby
force.
EVANGELICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
India is moving ; China is awakening; and I praise
God for it ... Our destiny is to Christianise and civilise
the millions of the East.” —Shriek from Parson Worrall,
at a Methody Afternoon in Melbourne.
When the Chow begins to spread,
And the Hindu pours
Some few hundred million bead
Southward to our shores,
Take your oath (this is a moral)
There’ll be plenty work for Worrall.
Not with gun or pistol he’ll
Greet those colored cousins,
But, with missionary squeal,
Quote them texts in dozens;
Soothe their wrath with efforts choral,
Sister Mary Jane and Worrall.
Yet (at such a chance I don’t
Feel at all surprised)
S’pose the heathen brother won't
Be evangelised ?
S’pose with us he wants to quarrel,
What is then in store for Worrall ?
Philosophic Chows declare,
With complacent mien,
They have gods whom they prefer
To the Nazarene ;
Rajahs on the sands of coral
Kneel to spooks unknown to Worrall,
What’s the choice will lie before
His astonished eyes ?
Either to Throw Seven, or
To apostatise,
And to preach a creed immoral
In the Christian view of Worrall.
Bloggs—poor Martyr!—will be flayed ;
Johnson will recant,
And become a highly-paid
Hindoo hierophant,
Quick with other creeds to quarrel
J l ust as angrily as Worrall.
How will an Archbishop look
As a priest of Thugs?
Will 3 Pear* be brought to book
If he worships bugs?
Krishna, girt with emblems floral,
Will inspire some later Worrall.
Our plain duty, I opine,
Is to guard this sod ;
Not to brand as Swine-of-Swine
Someone else’s god ;
Wherefore, bring a dose of chloral
To give sleep to Mister Worrall.
VIC.
LAM.
THE TRAITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Evidence in favor of the continuance of the licenses
of two hotels situated near each other at Rozelle
was given at the Local Option Court, Darlinghurst the
other day by an old resident of the locality, who said he
was a teetotaler of long standing. He thought there
was room for two. “ I cannot understand a teetotaler
not being anxious that they should both go,” remarked
Judge Backhous . “I like to allow everybody to live ”
was the prompt reply. - Sydney paper. '
Judkins, arise ! Quick ! Seize thy trusty gamp,
And full of tea and anger hurry forth ;
There is a shameless traitor in the camp
Who needs to feel the fury of thy wrath.
Away with him ! He reeks of treason ! Bah !
Now did I dream, or did a teapot fall ?
Oh ! Horror ! Lights ! More lights ! I see It ! Ah-h-h !
The shadow of a Bottle on the wall !
N.S.W.
E.O’F.


The GENUINE RING
FOR RHEUMATISM •
or !'- v genuine ring- to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Rho.,° a ’ . eui 'algia, Insomnia, etc. It gives relief in
wnrtv^/o 1 *” 1 t * lat n, edicine cannot give. Isn’t it
Wo|, th 7/6 to get well ?
Write for Free Booklf.t.
Made OF POLISHED BTEEL, nickel plated.
u
I
, The Rheumagnetic Ring-
(Patd.)
Price 7/6 Post Free.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. 1
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
mifiimtui.
""'im.ii.illi.li,
m\
"\mm
IK COMBINATION OVERCOAT
/■~\UR Illustration represents the new Combination Overcoat,
w a large number of which our tailors have made up ready
for service. The style is identical with that worn in London to-
day. The wide skirt makes it very stylish. It is loose fitting-,
most comfortable, and is warm enough for our Winter, and
sufficiently rainproof to withstand a heavy shower. ’ The
materials are the new browns and greys with overchecks, and we
have many different designs. He would indeed be a difficult
man to please who would not be abundantly satisfied with this
splendid coat.
Postage 1/3 Extra.
PRICE 32/6 EACH.
PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
Please send me your Combination Overcoat, at 32/G. Chest
measurement Measurement from centre of back to end of
sleeve
Name
Address
PEAPES & CO. LTD
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
... SYDNEY.
Details of the Dublin Castle robbery last
July, when £50,000 worth of British Crow/jewels
disappeared, suggest a certain tiredness on the
part of Sir Arthur Vicars, King-at-Arms. Five
years ago a strong room was constructed to keen
the gauds m, but the titled person indicated above
omitted to tell the man who constructed the thing
that the door would have to be targe enough tl
the safe in which the regalia was | e pt
And he was too tired for five years to
have. the door altered. So the strong room
JTTe oldT/' an<l the rt!d , safe stood
on the old basis in a eerrti-pfibli'e Mating- -
rpom It Would seem that nearly 'eVebyhbdV save
the cat had a latchkey, And the bit foightffiaS
& Sir Arthur
Iktnu je t e ! Safe i one he carried
- ’i locket, and the other he kept some-
tihieS in a drawer at home. Where he kept it at
other times isn t clear. When a messenger told
him, on the morning of July 3, that the outer
door of the ofnce had been found open, the poten-
Ute said ‘ls that so ?” or words to the same effect,
The messenger retired, and the matter dropped'
Three days later-on July fi-the early bhAB
woman found the strong room door ajah Whferi
the exhausted Sir Arthur blew in for the day A
menial rushed at him with the news. AirAih hb
seems to have Said “Is thAt so?” 0t sortie
such profundity No examination Ms made
to see if Anything hAd been fcAk'efi, anl
it Wasn t Until Shiittirtg-iip tirtie that the
messenger, Who had gdrie to the unsAfe to putm
W .We regalia
hAd diSapy.eA'red. ~ The Gom/nifsion that sat ex,
bensiveiy on the-matter ,c ¥ p e to the conclusion
&lf- r L l y icara was tired - The news was
hArdly worth the expense. The charwoman or
messenger could have supplied that informa-
tion, and even the cat may have noticed Arthur’s
weariness.
* • * «
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant
In a curio.-shop in Hunter-street, Sydney, is on view
1 ".7 .? r Tlf e o ; a w , ater -c°l° r drawing of “ Oxford-street in
1847. The street was then known as the Old South Head-
road. A corner of Lyons’ Terrace, built in the early
forties, can be seen, and two picturesque cottages, iii
one of which Dr. O Reilley lived in the long ago. On the
site of the other cottage stands the Cambridge Club
Hotel, but before that hotel was built, an old-time
medico, Dr. Gillhooley, had a fine house there’
On the corner of S.H.-road and, tiverpool-street is
shown a hotel, built about thfe, ,Ve4r 1847-and first known
a * d , ke t’\ by Archibald llyle. Later on,
H e o% tft S he Blind Beggar, kept by
E Alfred BVAdfaro;, In I£so when the locality was becom-
<r fW appellation was discarded, and the
sy Bradford’s Family Hotel. Later on it
in became The Terrace. Again the name was changed
Wl it became the Royal Oxford Hotel. Presently a tenant
Whose front name was Michael (his intimates called him
Mick), dropped the “ Royal ” and left it simply “ Oxford ”
n tu y i ar3 J a , ter an ,°, th , er H 'bernian got it and christened
it The Burdekin. Perhaps the Burdekin family, whicli
own the freehold, insisted on the name as a beer-tribute
to old Tom Burdekin or his son Sydney.
Alongside the hotel, in the picture, will be seen two
mean-looking buildings which block up Liverpool-street.
They were there in the ’seventies. The late Sydney
Burdekin was asked to knock them down to give free
access to Liverpool-street and to his own property at the
rear, and make Liverpool-street a clear thoroughfare, but
patriotic citizen declined unless he got £2OO.
Although the removal of the obstruction doubled the
value of the corner, he got the £2OO.
* * * *
This advertisement represents a big Syd-
ney firm’s idea of contributing to the entertain-
tiient of u ncle Samuels tars when they arrive
“ HAIL ! COLUMBIA.”
WS MCST A til, GET NEW THINGS
FOR THE AMERICAN FLEET,
tiADtES’ “ NAtURAL ” \VOOh JihOOtfERS, 17/3/’OB
Worn’S 4/11 WonVs As 9/6
Horn’s lb/9 As ; i5/6
v bAhto’ “Sample” nigAtGGwns, 17/3/’OB.
•k - s Vei,1 nsr» Flannel, and CAshniere, Special
Yaiue, trimmed Torchon Lace, Silk Torchoh Lace, and
Silk Linbroideries.
12/6, li/6, 15/6, 17/6,. 1.8/6, iH/6\ ti/6,
. 25/-, 27/6', S©/-;
x , creaA kuk’s'-vEitika Nightgowns, 17/3/’OB.
; A'/'i-dowh coMt, edged Yak lace, frills down front
!m!«Wd VVlth lace, 12/6.
Vhoughtfulness like that doesn’t gratify the
lank mariners they deserve keel-hauling,
A LIBEL .
SHE: But everybody says Bella Smith's your
fiancee .”
HE: It's a lie! she an' me's engaged, an that's
all there is to it."
It isn’t all 'beef and guineas to be an
electoral omCet tip North. At the recent elections
m which Queensland showed Philp where the
door Was, Otte Walter Smith was officer at
a booth bat-k from NoriliantOh, Oh the Gulf,
Smith Was getting aloiig nicely,
the heavfens Opened, atid oceans of raiti fell out,
artd Smith had to harig bn to, the ballot boxes to
save them from being washed away ‘ arid WHilfe
he camped, a creek got between him and hiS
horses. •|F or .five day§ fib lived mi pig-
weed. Tlleri fib strlibk a teamster who was
alsd WeritlM-fiound, and lie fed, and decided
to camp a bit. By this time two constables,
mounted on good swimmers, had been sent out,
and they found Smith alive, but very wet. He
had planted the boxes in a dry place, and the
police reached them after bogging through 15
miles of flooded country at one stretch.
“ Runa ” : The bob-and-curtsey domestic
damsel is, after all, not quite an unknown
quantity in this moderately democratic
country. At a swell boarding-house on the
north side of Sydney harbor, wherein some
50 or 60 immaculately collared and cuffed
young gentlemen sleep, derive their nourish-
ment, and have their silk socks darned
for the sum of £2 2s. per week, there is a
nicely-brought-up staff of young women who
attach to all their remarks a well-modulated
“Sir,’’ and who don’t expect bangles when
chunked Under the chin by the more frivolous
of the lordlings. Once a month these
maidens are permitted to fling the cap and
apron of servitude to limbo, and to clear
put the big dining-hall for a dance, which
is provided, along with the bottled coffee,
gassy drinks, currant cake and music, by
the resident squires. Nor is this the extent
of their generosity; the hosts remain with
the girls for a couple of hours, and dance
with each hand-maiden in turn ; then they
go off and leave them “ to enjoy themselves
in their own way with the butcher’s man, or
the baker, and other persons of their own
class.” The words quoted are from the lips
of one of the young gentlemen, who, in
common with the rest of the crowd, earns
his fancy socks in one of the professions, and
may be heard frequently denouncing the
“ beastly Labor Party ” for sending the
country to the dogs and making the “lower
orders ” discontented with the station in life
in which it has pleased God to place them.
“ There is no servant problem in our estab-
lishment,” he says, “ because we make it a
rule to preserve the good old English tradi-
tions in regard to class distinctions.”
In the Sydney Local Option Court last week
“ the cessation of the license held by A. Briquet, of
the Rock Lily Hotel, Pittwater-road,” was ordered.
So will go in due course a landmark that was known
to every pleasure-seeker who has lived in or
visited Sydney during the last 20 years. Houroux,
the original licensee, had the Gaul’s knack of
making whatever desert place he settles in bloom
into the semblance of a tiny section of his native
land. “ The Rock Lily ” looked, in its palmy days,
before the fruit trees wilted and the garden went to
rack and rinn, like a Belgian auberge and grounds,
dropped casually in a clearing of tall Australian
gums. The dreadful paintings which its proprietor
perpetrated with the portentous solemnity of an
infant with its first color-box attracted lovers of
the bizarre and advertised the place. If “The
Rock Lily” cooking had stayed on a par with the
surrounding scenery (and at one time it was as
good as that) there would have been big money in
the establishment. But it didn’t stay. The art
of the kitchen sank to the level of the art in the
parlor, and poor old “ Hooray,” as he was known
locally, died in an atmosphere of mortgages, writs
and poverty.
Many men, especially in musical circles,
afe given billets, not because of pre-eminent merit,
but to aggravate the supporters of the other
fellow. Music, in fact, seems to infuriate the
Savage breast more than any other art. Already
Mr, Sydney Scott, who travels from England with
Philip Newbury, is pushed forward as the future
appointee to the post of Sydney city organist.
Aldbrmen, as a rule* don’t know much about
organs other than the riidhth dnej but they are
great on personal feelings, and great is the Cat-
fight on the roof when a nominee is rejected. Onb
exasperated individual once professed his determi-
nation to have Beelzebub in the organ chair
before he was finished. Mr. Scott is, no doubt,
an accomplished musician; but there are other
accomplished musicians who should not be made
to suffer because they are not newly-arrived,
typical Englishmen.
♦ * * *
Geelong (Vic.) has just been favored with
a romance in real life, with a problem hanging on
to the back end of it. In 1894 young Mr. and
Mrs. Galsworthy, after two years of wedded but
childless bliss, had a tiff. Galsworthy took the
unpleasantness so seriously that he left for parts
unknown, and stayed there. But he soon yearned
for his grass-widow ; yet, instead of returning, he
set about acquiring a new home in the district
whither he had gone. This took longer than he
anticipated ; but the other day he returned to
Geelong, with the intention of taking his deserted
bride to his arms once more and resuming where
he left off. Meanwhile, Mrs. G. had heard no
word of her husband for eight years; moreover,
she was assured he was dead. Presently, there-
fore, she married one Carpenter, and had two
children. When Galsworthy discovered his ex-
wife she Was in a hospital; but, on seeing
her long-lost Galsworthy, she began to acquire
new health and strength immediately. She also
now desires to go hack to where they left off, and
take the two Carpenter infants with her ; and, as
Galsworthy is willing, everything looks as joyous
as a marriage feast—except for Carpenter. This
unfortunate citizen says that as Galsworthy was
dead seven years ago he ought to go on being
dead ; moreover, Carpenter says the two infants
are undoubtedly his, and what right has the law
to take them from him and bestow them on a
stranger ! But as they equally belong to Mrs. Car-
penter or Galsworthy, and as she desires, proposes
and intends to return with them to Galsworthy,
there is here a problem which Carpenter proposes
to take to law. And it’s long odds that the law’s
decision won t be satisfactory, though there seems
taam for a mighty herd of Costs.
When the trouble with theN.S.W. coastal'
shipping companies became acute, the people on
the rivers north and south of Sydney got into
trouble. They couldn’t get their supplies up, and
they couldn t get their produce down. Their
butter began to melt, their cheese to gambol on
the wharves, and their maize to sprout. All these
things they bore with patience. But they had
ajd this grief they did not bear with
patience, dt anything dimly resembling that Job-
bke substance. App&ilS (at beer came echoing
all the way from th'e afld they were so
intense that the Sydney brewbbs n'ad ta set about
hnding means to quench thb pbrihetti thifsL
lhe.y tried the colliers in vain. They appealed
the tug-owners without success. Finally a: sfjbMial!
beer steamer was chartered 1 , and th& bfi'si'g' #al
averted.
* * * *
latest Anglican outbreak is in peace-
tul Australia, at St. Augustine’s, Unley, where
the Rev. W. Eugene Perrin and his organist and
choirmaster, E. Smith-Hall, have been telling
what they think abouc >ne another. One says,
briefly, that the other is . noompetent, disobedi-
ent, and impertinent; the oti. r says, more briefly
still that the first one is a lla r c -ourse the
trouble was about the choir, which u,+r. -cused of
scattering grape skins about the floor wfiat time it
ought to have been piously saying “Amen.”
I kings have got so bad that everybody has
resigned, and the Rev. Eugene has decided to sail
back to the England he hasn’t long left, England
being a country where (in spots) “the passon ’
isn t to be cheeked any more than “ the squire ”
or “ the beak.”
* * *
Mystifying to the lay mind are the
causes which underlie the majority of alder-
manic disputes; those forces —hidden, yet of
immense horse power—which produce at intervals
tthat the evening sheets call “A Municipal
Breeze.” And still murkier is the sting which
liirks id each remark the one party hurls at the
other. .Tuttle and .Lewis, aldermen of Newtown
(N.S. W. broke)al laflfce last week in connection with
a street the former h'feld shP'uld be tar-paVed. Lewis
hearkened to Turtle’s proportion iff silence, and
then this dialogue flourished like the green bay
cuss :
Lewis : Rot !
Turtle : To your mind, it may be rot.
Lewis : You don’t know what you are talking-about.
Turtle : No, of course not. That is why the ratepayers
send me here—because I don’t know what I’m talking
about.
Lewis : Banana 1
Turtle: Rags !
That was all, and the public remains hungry with
uncertainty. What makes Turtle Writhe at the
word “Banana,” and wherefore does Lewis
imagine a vain thing when someone remarks
“Rags”? Discussions of this sort should be
accompanied by diagrams.
* * * *
A case of figurative language at Broken
Hill, and a consequent apology
A N APOLOGY.—I, , do hereby Apolo-
gise and expres-s regret at having made the state-
ment that the late Mr. T. FITZPATRICK was a
“ ninety-twoer.” I made the statement at the time,
in a full belief that it was true, but I now find that
my source of information was unreliable, and my
statement was not correct.
To be called a “ ninety-twoer ” is a deadly insult
on the Barrier. A man would even leave his
burning house and his partially-fried chattels to
chase you down the street if you called him a
“ ninety-twoer.”
NO!
PSfflf® iiSf ***
He sentimental mood
„ A new made melody
O Juliet, sweet Juliet,
, The ™°°n is shining, clear!
No trousseau you need to 6et-
Come as you are my dear!
Lome as you are my own sweetheart
Come as you are my dear!
gallant steed
Ny horse of Poetry,
IS WEutml here, he is indeed
He waits for you and me,
The moon is Mi, and bright the sky,
And all the way is dear- ‘
y ° U u borwet cn and fly
And fly with me, my dear, 7
a iY l h I r ' e - rf) >' own sweetheart,
And Tly with clesir.
smiled and shook her head
And said, It cannot be -
It cannot be, dear lad’’she said
It cannot, cannot, be.
Your Pedasus, no doubt, can fly
Into the Distant Blue J
And cleave with winds the slarrv
Yet cannot carry two, (sRy
He cannot carry two, dear lad,
ne cannot carry two **
(for *bt
CREEVE ROE.
THE SERIOUS TRAVELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" >h ° represente( * the ptthlewefi took tip
no t’ f /*?.{»'” sa! ’d tie, with an Intimidating wave
oE 'tv?a han< ’ j thsit you alre a! morose man ? ”
ihe respondent declared tlraifc We wa'S Wot a jolly on A
4, . .. i j , , -—tiailii Papet;
He is a foot wh ; o gaily take*
. * lis lonely way where Grief IS fife t
Whose m'ad, derisfve laughter shakeS
the rafters of the Irtn Of Life -
Who stsresa'rottnd, nor is afraid
To jest with Ptttej the s'erving-maid;
The bloods may look askahe*' dt WiW
Who sits apart and sips his tiiti
In some retired corner dim,
And hearkens not to song or tale ;
A silent, unresponsive guest
Who heedeth not the buffoon's jest.
fhe night fir wafting. Presently
All of the ghes'ts hVust huffy ont
Into the gloom'; AVhfersify-A
. That bitter wind—wiA ttfiVe fbd fo>Y4
Swiftly the darkened 1 road
And' drown the echoes' of 1 their sorig.'
The world is solemn. He is wise
. Who mocks it not with shallow wit,'
But want? beneath the leaden skies'
That never rtif of has lit,'
And, in his heavy great-cdat furled,
Doth fit his humor to the worl'cf.
N.B.W.
E. FRA[?]


DELIGHTS OF THE UNDERTOW.
The Coogee Surf Life-saving Bri-
gade yesterday went to the rescue
of about 14 persons who were in
difficulties In the surf.— News Item.
Mabel: “ Don’t go in there, Maud ; it’s
marked ‘ Dangerous.’ ”
MauJ : “ I know it is ; but I just dote
on being rescued.”
Maoriiand’s ever-growing debt. The
weary wayfarer strikes another mile-
stone on the track, and finds himself
further from home than ever.
I
It Is cabled from London that Lord
Rosebery says “ Protection is bad,
but Socialism is the end of all things.”
Probably what he feared was that it
would be the financial end of Rose-
bery.
QUEENSLAND’S THREE PARTIES.
Three lions roar along the shores ;
Each thinks the other two are bores.
THE MISSING
The Chinese Emperor’s marriage lines,
which were stolen from Pekin when the
Allies occupied the city in 1900, have
been found in a public-house in Ger-
many, and restored. Consequently the
character of Mrs. Emperor has been
an “ u **•'" *" “•««*
Emperor (In last act ): •* Ah, now
I see it all J ”
The Newcastle coal-miners
have resolved to take strong
measures with the boy
wheelers, who are always
laying the mines idle by
petty strikes.
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL.


horthand, Typewriting
keeping, Correspondence* Business
Arithmetic, Commercial L*aw,
'gineering, Mechanical Engineering,
Architecture and Building Construction,
freehand Drawing, we coach by
Post for all Examinations.
Writ* for “HOME STUDY,” Post free
Sfotfe/foares
Business College
S? Sydney.
B~C.
The most eminent physician cannot pre-
scribe a better preparation than Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy.*
The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to ui
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridge Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses foi
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for youf
special needs.*
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE SCRATCH MAN.
[For The Bulletin.]
Tin? editor of the Waynesfield Chronicle has started a
Whisker Club, which already numbers 50 members
Meetings will he held, at which whiskers will be measured
and experiences exchanged, and a prize will be given
after the first year to the young man with the longest
whiskers. — News item
One evening when the sun was low,
The elements most kind,
I met a youth who looked as though
He’d something on his mind.
Four times I heard him inly groan,
Then crept up to his side,
And slipped an arm within his own,
And through his whiskers cried :
“ Oh, callow youth ! oh, callow youth 1
Pray tell me why you pace
The earth with such a look of ruth
Upon your early face ?
“Is it because you’ve lost your love—
A maiden fair to see—
And cannot, since you ‘ got the shove,’
Find one so sweet as she ?
“ Your brow is bent, your eyes are wild,
Pray tell me what’s the rub ! ”
He looked at me and wanly smiled,
“ I’ve joined the ‘ Whisker Club ’!
“ We number fifty, you must know—
And fifty-one with me ;
And we must let the herbage grow
Our dials upon 1” said lie.
“ Each month small issues we forsake.
In order to compare
The progress that our whiskers make,
And measure up our hair !
' “ Of the adventures we have known
With bated breath we speak.
Smith tells how his red beard has grown
Two inches in a week !
“Jones tells of dreams—the nightmare brand—
How twenty barbers stout,
Each with four razors in his hand,
Had chivvied him about !
“ Then, if we seek a gentler theme,
We can discuss Bay Rum,
The latest thing in Whiskfer Cream,
Or scented pomatum.
“ And we have beard athletics, too ;
Our president, good sooth,
Will give a trophy bright and new
To the best-whiskered 3 outh,
“ One year from now, or thereabout!
’Twill be a classic race !
Alas ! why won’t my whiskers sprout?
Ah, me ! My face 1 My face ! ”
“And wherefore should’st thou be so sad?”
I cried ; “ It seems to me
Your whisker crop is not so bad,
It sprouteth merrilee 1 ”
“Great Heav’n !” he shrieked, “ Let me forget 1
I may not! That’s the ‘ nark ’!
For, though I’m only twenty yet,
They’ve placed me ‘ on the mark ’ / ”
So wildly glared that callow youth
Into the face of me,
That I, to tell the sober truth,
Feared for his sanity 1
MAORILAND. SlNC. S. CLARK.
A WAYSIDE PUB.— “ THAT WEIRD
EXPECTANCY .”
Waiting the arrival of some good Samaritan
to “do in .”
Kondar ” : Have often read in The
Bulletin of something which seems quite new
JJ 1 insect world. It is generally called the
State Insect. Seems to me to be quite an ab-
normal-originality. And, strange to say, aborigi-
nahars have left the discussion of this pest to the
more serious portions of The Bulletin. I have
read of its being Wade, but have not yet seen
what weight it is. Perhaps it carries no weight.
Its chief object in life seems to be to sacrifice the
L °!f f?or a Portion. In this it appears to resemble
the “killer,” which desires the death of the whale
tor the sake of eating its tongue.
Bullfrog : Has the existence of a flying
lizard been recorded ? A friend of mine, travelling
near Ewan (Q.) the other day, saw in a bush close
to the bank of a small creek a lizard some feet
above the ground. When within about 5yds. the
1 v, a * l u, pP e( i from the bush, and, spreading
' v W t roy friend describes as a membrane similar
to that of the flying squirrel, gradually descended
into the water; then, emerging from the other
side, it scampered up the opposite bank, and got
away in the grass. My friend has been in N.Q.
tor nearly 40 years, and this is the first of the kind
he has seen ; and the others of us in the camp,
who have all had considerable experience of the
t>ush, had never seen or heard of such a thing. I
may mention that this is a teetotal camp, and every
member of it would be glad to know if the reptile
has been observed previously.
* * * *
In order to improve the pastures of Ma
‘ tate for Cow, a fodder grass named paspalum
was imported in great quantities from South
America and let loose, chiefly in the northern
districts. In some localities it has already been
so affected by the rich local conditions that it is
rank enough to be classed as a failure. Maiden,
i® ry ec 'f° r °f the Sydney Botanic Gardens,
planted a tussock as an object of interest for
visiting farmers in one of the flower beds in the
Hardens, but birds have scattered the seeds over
the neighboring grass lawns, till the new arrival
threatens them with ruin. The paspalum has
taken to sprawling, and kills even buffalo grass,
ibis incident backs up the repeated statement
that the importations of foreign flora and fauna
ana germea—if that’s the right word—is a risky
business. You never know what the thing will
do next.
* * * *
“Edyson”: Andrew Pack, of Quarry-
Holes, had an interesting encounter with a
chicken-thief one night last month. Pack runs a
chicken ranch in conjunction with a pea farm,
bee plant, and apple orchard, and he had reason
tor believing that unauthorised persons were
plucking his unripe pullets. So one night he took
a large stick and lay in waiting, with the result
that, shortly after the midnight hour, he came
upon a young Chinaman tying up a bag of plump
btrds. At the first word of reproach (which fell
on his head) Hen Get jumped the wire netting
and streaked out for the hills, through Pack s
timber.. Pack went after him, shaking
his stick, his neck clothed with thunder.
It was a long race, and eventually the
farmer lost his natural prey in the tall
trees, but presently mooned him up a long
barrelled tree. For five minutes the hayseed
addressed furious remarks to Hen Get, command-
ing him to come down and be killed ; but Hen
Get was not eager to hasten his own demise. He
said “No savee me ! ” and remained up a tree.
Pack could not leave him to seek assistance ; he
did not want to camp out all night, and if he went
up after Hen Get he might get kicked on the roof
of the head. In this extremity inspiration came
to the hen-cultivator, and he started a fire
round the butt of the tree. He built quite
a formidable conflagration, and Hen Get, if he
tried to escape, would apparently have to pass
through a miniature Gehenna. Then Pack chased
himself home to secure the co-operation and
assistance of his wife and family. The whole
bunch of Packs returned in about 15 minutes. The
fire still raged, but Hen Get was gone. The
Pagan, too, had ingenuity. He had broken a long
dry limb, hung it by a prong to a low bough, and
then slid down and dropped off. To make things
look symmetrical, he had lighted fires round six
other trees, and these the Packs had to extinguish
lest there might be altogether too much conflagra-
tion. When they arrived home they found that the
sprightly young Chinaman had revisited the farm
in their absence, and resumed possession of the
bag of poultry. That made the Packs mad, and
they are still looking for Hen Get.
“ Moulamein ” : Despite statements to the
contrary, tarantulas do appear in the
day time, although the night is pre-
ferred. Have seen them fly-stalking un-
blushingly in the broad noonday, with
mason-bees and other
winged insects buzzing
round. Once saw a taran-
tula fight a monster centi-
pede. Result—immense
centipede supper for the
spider. Was interested
in the rearing of a fine
brood of young tarantulas
in a corner of my room.
First, mamma spun a
white, cap-shaped object
resembling the spider-
manufactured things we
kiddies used to find in
the grass and call “fairies’
caps.” In time the young-
sters spread across the
ceiling like flies, and
turned up casually in the
sleeves of my coat and in
the bottom of the wash-
basin. Have noticed that a
fat, juicy brother makes a
very acceptable tarantula meal.
“Cross Nibs”: The station bookkeeper
and I were instructed by the boss to dispatch the
fatted hog. Alongside the sty we ignited a large
fire, to heat the water required for shaving the
pork. While we were waiting for the moisture to
climb to a temperature approved of by the sty-
dweller, Jimmy Look Crook, the Pagan gardener,
butted into the surroundings. Jimmy never
missed a bacon execution, and had been the
recipient of much viscera. As we approached the
condemned cell the grunting obeseness rose from
the mud and eyed us disrespectfully. James
stood at the gate, and informed us on which side
of the thought-knob the axe that the storekeeper
carried would be most thankfully received by the
unclean animal. The figure-balancer swung
the tree-destroyer round, and drove hard for
the pig’s intelligence. Unfortunately, the pork
side-stepped, and felt the concussion about
the waist line. A minute later two perspiring
station hands were pursuing a horrified hog
through the mulga. In making his exit the
bristle producer had collided with the alien, and
capsized him into the fervid fluid, from which
could be observed a pair of capacious cow-hides
fanning the atmosphere in a furious manner.
When dragged from the hot dampness the
“ whaffor” person streaked away to his vegetable
domain like an amorous emu. I visited him that
evening, and discovered Ah Mee, the Chow chef,
rubbing gohanna grease into the radish-raiser’s
lumbar region. During the lubrication Jimmy
Look Crook denounced peregrinating pig in a fast
and foreign tongue, freely interspersed with a
notorious adjective.
HER HEART'S DESIRE .
L A M LECTURER ON WOMAN'S RIGHTS (to black gin): "Ah, my poor creature, even in your
ignorance and blindness, even you have your heart s desires; even your poor soul
yearns for something without which life would be a void. Is it not so ?”
MARY ANN (mystified ): "Baal me know. You gibbit ’buccal”
Tapu : The Maoriland Parliament,
some few years back, gave the Maoris power to
establish tribal councils which had some of the
powers and privileges of municipal councils.
Weird, yet interesting, are some of the decisions
arrived at by these colored bodies. At Raglan, a
Maori, after a lengthy absence, arrived at his
kainga at midnight, towing seven horses, which
he tethered near the pah. It happened that in
the whare were some 30 Maoris of both sexes,
asleep side by side, as is their custom. Honi dis-
turbed the serenity of the whare by boasting
about the breed of his steeds. Near the exit to the
whare an old tatooed woman—partly nude
—was sleeping unmolested. Honi, brimful of in-
solence, cast a languid glance at the illus-
trated old female, and did a little giggle. Next
m/irning the council sat, and Honi was arraigned
alid found guilty on three different charges, and
fined as follows : For laughing derisively at Rangi
Kopare whilst asleep—two horses ; for looking at
Rangi Kopare’s nude body—two horses ; for not
covering Rangi Kopare’s nude body with a mat —
three horses. Honi lost all his horses, and in the
eyes of his tribe was reduced to a plain Maori
once more. He dropped in one act from being
cavalry to the status of mere bloke.
“ Stony ” : I came on the scene, on Satur-
day evening’, just as the youngest boarder was
about to kill the fowls for Sunday’s luncheon.
He had taken on the job at the behest of the
tender-hearted landlady, who hadn’t the heart to
shed blood off her own little axe. The youngest
boarder, who is a self-opinionated person, wore a
high collar and a grey summer suit to the scene of
slaughter, and his acetylene bike-lamp shed its
solitary ray upon the chopping-block. Mrs. Land-
lady had shut herself into her room so that she
should not hear the gushing life-blood of her chooks,
and the least venerable boarder was all on his own—
but for myself, who stood afar off and kept quiet.
Presently there were three thuds, followed in
each case by loud flutterings ; and three dark
forms flopped and careered wildly about among
the apple trees of the lower back-yard. The flop-
ping and careering were due to the fact that the
most youthful boarder had forgotten to tie the
legs of the birds. He pursued the bodies ener-
getically, saying things under his breath, and
found two of them not far from the abattoirs ; but
the third evaded his search. After a time, he
condescended to suggest that I should help him.
“Most surprising,” he muttered; “the three
birds were all here in a bunch, and there’s only
two o’ them now.” We searched high and
low by the light of the bike-lamp, but
could find no trace. At length, as the boarder
who had all the world before him halted beneath
the fig-tree, there was a faint pattering upon his
large, white collar, and he put up his hand and
brought it away covered with blood. His beauti-
ful gray suit was also spotted with blood. The bike-
lamp flashed affrightedly into the branches of the
fig, and there was the third chook, minus its head,
bleeding among the leaves, whither it had flapped
itself in its final palpitations. “Y’ ought t’ve tied
his feet !” I urged. But the bright, fresh boarder
only looked at me with rage in his glance, and
proceeded to the kitchen for a dish-rag.
“ Doolye ” : General opinion re aboriginal
arithmetic is, in the main, correct. Most tribes
get tired when they arrive as far as five or six. But
in some localities the tired feeling does not super-
vene till the nigger is in the neighborhood of
twenty. I once came across a copy of the numerals
used by blacks of the Balonne River(Q.) district. It
ended at twenty. I don’t know who got tired
first, the scribe or the aboriginal; but, judging
from the system employed, there seems no reason
why the affair should have stopped where it did.
Copy of numerals follows :
Numerals Used by Blacks of Balonne River District :
1, mal; 2, bular ; 3, guliba ; 4, bularbular ; 6, mulanbu ;
6, malmulanbu munimi ; 7, bularmulanbu mummi ; 8,
gulibamulanbu mummi ; 9, bularbularmulanbu mummi ;
10, bulariu mummi; 11, mal dinna mummi; 12, bular
dinna mummi ; 13, guliba dinna mummi ; 14, bularbular
dinna mummi ; 15, mulanbu dinna; 16, mal dinna
mulanbu ; 17, bular dinna mulanbu ; 18, guliba dinna
mulanbu ; 19, bularbular dinna mulanbu ; 20, bularin
dinna mulanbu.
CONGENIAL EMPLOYMENT.
REFINED AND SUPERIOR TRAMP : “ Madam, I am
willing and able to do ANYTHING!”
LADY OF THE HOUSE (scenting culture): "Do
you think you could teach me Diabolo? ”
“ Janor ” : There are folks who gird at the
monotony of bush life. Well, here’s a week in
January from the diary of a Gippsland gold-
digger :
Monday.—Extensive land slip, causing collapse of tunnel
and loss of nine months’ dead work. No beans for fresh
start. Storekeeper stops credit.
Tuesday.—Consolatory drunk presented by sympa-
thisers, punctuated by sundry fights.
Wednesday.—Hut and belongings destro3'ed by bush
fire.
Thursday.—Public subscription for purchase of new
outfit. Incidentally more drunk.
Friday.—New camp fixed. Bitten by venomous snake.
Inflated with whisky, conveyed to hospital.
Saturday.—Convalescent. Go fossicking up gully.
First dish yields a 370 z. slug.
Sunday.—Thanksgiving day. Juddy’s Liquor Bill badly
breached. More “ scraps.” Donate fiver to hospital.
Monday.—Marry “The Speckled Hen.” Joyous and
Pagan festivities. Depart on a honeymoon to Melbourne.
Half way to railway terminus coach held up for 24 hours
by bush fire. First instalment of honeymoon in hollow log.
AN ESSENTIAL INGREDIENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Now, I submit that a clergyman, provided he he
cultured, tactful, devout, and a gentleman to boot, is a
useful, in fact necessary, person in a country town.—
Letter in Sydney Telegraph.
Some dwelling places nestling by a stream,
A store, a pub or so, an ivied kirk,
A park where dogs and gentle nursemaids dream,
A graveyard wherein snakes and lovers lurk.
Take these, likewise a mayor of moral weight
And a dour Hampden who opposes him,
Nagging persistently about the state
Of drains, the municipal hounds within.
Nor, heedless, set aside the School of Arts,
To which the novel-reading sex betakes
Itself o’ nights, and shocked discussion starts
Regarding the misdeeds of village rakes.
Add each to each—the sum’s a country town.
Yet is it filled with grief and discontent
Without a Parson, sporting that bright crown
Of cultivated tact which marks the Gent.
10-2-4.


One bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy goes a long way towards
relieving suffering humanity.*
RACE--
MEETINGS !
Our Stock of Trophies is one
of the largest in Sydney.
The quality of the goods is of the best
only. Our prices (in plain figures) are
the lowest in Australia. We allow
special discounts for public presentation.
Diamonds and Sapphires, £25.
Black Opals and Olivines, £l5.
•c
Fine Gold, 1 whole Pearl and 1 Diamond, £4 10s.
PLAIN FIGURES 1
STRICTLY CASH J
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
“ Janor ” : It was a sultry day up there
on the hauling-road, one of those days when all
things go perversely. A summer shower had
made the track a glue-pot, and bullocks bogged
and sulked, logs jammed, chains and timber-dogs
snapped, and the boss was a raging cyclone of
profanity. The supply of dogs giving out, he
called the new chum rouser, imported the previous
day from the Immigration Depot, and packed him
off to the camp with instructions to bring up all
the dogs he could find. It was a steep climb up
the spur from the camp to the road, and, after
some delay, the new chum appeared before the
boss, a brown retriever under one arm and a fox-
terrier under the other. He dropped his load
with a grunt of relief, and said they were all he
could catch. The boss could find nothing in his
oath-bin to fit the occasion, so he seized the re-
triever by the tail, swung it round his head, and
swiped savagely at the dog-finder. But he was
already fleeing in disorder, and he tarried not
until he had struck a job of milking 50 miles away.
“ H. 8.” : Recently, in The Bulletin’s
correspondence column, Hatfield was mentioned
as one of the dead towns of N.S.W. In 1879 Hat-
field achieved sudden fame by an outbreak of
bushranging, and for a while it wasn’t dead.
Four local residents—Gorman, Hobbs, Kay and
Jones —stuck up the town and then took to the
roads. They went north, sticking up travellers
and stations. Ultimately they were overtaken on
Till Till station by about 30 police and civilians,
and a wild fight took place in the lignum scrub.
In the scrimmage, Constable Power was badly
wounded by a rifle shot. The gang was captured,
and tried at Deniliquin in October, 1879, on a
charge of attempted murder. The verdict was
** guilty,” and the four were sentenced to death.
The sentences were commuted —Gorman got 21
years, Hobbs and Jones 15 years, and Kay 10
years. Jones and Kay died in gaol; what became
of Gorman and Hobbs Ido not know. But for a
little time Hatfield wasn’t dead.
A LOUD SUIT.
EDMUND : “ Don't be surprised if the show goes
flat to-night, Horace. I'm as hoarse as a
crow."
HORACE : "Hoarse! S’pose you've been trying to
make yourself heard above your suit."
“ Mundadji ” : I have noted a peculiar
trait in a horse that is near dying. Several days
before “ pegging out ” the moke will select a spot,
and, no matter how often he is removed, he will,
if able, come back to the chosen place that he may
there give up the ghost—or whatever horses give
up. Anyhow, it's a certain sign of death when
the horse chooses a place—and sticks to it. He
is selecting his grave, and asking in a horse voice
that he may be buried there.
SARCASTIC.
DAD (to Jimmy, who had left home that morning with vows of never returning, but who is
driven back from the haystack by hunger): "Hullo, Jimmy! Back at last! Well, well,
you haven't altered much!”
“ Jones” : Struck a race-meeting near the
22nd parallel during the Christmas holidays. I
know it was a race-meeting because there was
plenty of beer there, and you rarely find a race-
meeting near the 22nd parallel unless there is
plenty of beer. This particular meeting was held
at Alice Springs. The programme consisted of
four races. The Maiden race brought out a field
of two. The next two races were contested by
Mascotte and Oliver Twist, which were owned by
the same gentleman who owned the two animals
in the maiden event. The gentleman rider of Mas-
cotte allowed the
gentleman rider of
the other to run
second on each
occasion. The last
race found Mas-
cotte again a win-
ner. Thus the
owner of Mascotte
won the
gramme, and left
the owner of Oliver
Twist to run off
the Consolation
race with his own
defeated maiden
horse. Oliver was
again defeated, and
will now possibly
retire from the
turf. After every
event the course
was left as bare as
your hand, while
all and sundry ad-
j ourned for ref resh-
ments to the pub.
This club at one
time raced for as
much as £6OO. Its
nearest neighbor
(Charlotte Waters
Club, now defunct)
raced on one oc-
casion for over
£7OO. At the sub-
sequent settling-up
it was proposed to
buy beer with the
balance in hand.
Needless to say,
this was done.
The club is now,
therefore, quite
dead. Next year’s
races will possibly
be for the ‘ ‘ tin of
jam for mother,”
or the ‘‘Christmas-
box for little
Willy.” Thus are
the mighty fallen,
and the sport of
kings rudely walk-
ed upon, in per-
haps the finest horse-breeding country in Aus-
tralia. The only chance now is to hold a goat
race-meeting. With the odoriferousness of the
Bill-goat the air of Alice Springs fairly screams.
* * * *
The annual report of Papua gives what a
daily paper calls some remarkable instances of the
simplicity of the Papuan aboriginal. For ex-
ample, a native was charged with assaulting his
wife. He pleaded that he was in a hurry to go to
Sunday-school, and the missus was slow in getting
his books, so he kicked her in the face with his
boots. This appeals to the average person as a
striking proof of the soothing influence of Chris-
tianity on savage races. Without the benefits of
religion that savage might have clubbed his wife.
On the other hand, if there had never been any
missionary the native would have had no books,
and would not have been in a hurry to go to
Sunday-school, for there wouldn’t have been any.
Furthermore, he would not have worn boots.
Possibly the wife will hold that Christianity is
rather detrimental on the whole.
“ Eclyson ” : Cunningham was staying at
a Bourke-street (Melbourne) hotel when I ran
against him. He was delighted to meet me; a
pressman might be of great service to him, he
said. Cunningham was a bushman —large, woolly,
raw-boned, browned and sandy-blighted, and as
ingenuous as any rural infant that ever tried to
ruin the sharps by picking the little queen. He
confided in me. He was the only man on earth
who knew exactly how to cope with the Australian
rabbit plague. Would I have a drink? Germs
were all rot, poison was rot, traps were rot, cats as
a means of devastating the plague were utter rot.
The thing that was going to destroy bunny root
and branch, burn him down, and tear him
up, and throw him away, and sow his
habitation with salt was Cunningham’s Gas
Blast and Burrow Detonator, patented.
Would I have another drink ? Cunningham
explained his patent gas blast at great length, and
filled his whiskers with froth in the frenzy of his
enthusiasm. Then he dragged mo up to his apart-
ment to inspect the working model, and nearly
suffocated the pair of us by letting off a tornado
of fumes in the closed room. Down at the bar
again he explained that he had just abandoned
1000 acres up near Speargrass. Would I have a
drink ? I asked him if he was wise in abandoning
agriculture before establishing his patent on a
paying basis. “ Had to leave,” explained Cun-
ningham—was driven off the land. Couldn’t
make anything of it for the infernal rabbits. ’Ave
er drink ?”
* * * *
“ The Mussel ” acts as Boswell to a pub-
lic-house Dr. Johnson
“ Yes, there was nothing that tarrier was frightened of
—and the bigger his opponent the hungrier he was for
the job. He followed a five-roomed house on a jinker for
two miles up the road with the bristles sticking up on his
neck like a doormat, and growling insulting language at
it all the way. He onlj' left it then for a traction engine
and a thresher, because they looked as if they could put
up a more willing scrap.
“ One day this tarrier of mine was putting in time
between meals chasing cyclists up and down the street,
when he got rolled over on his back by a whirlwind. He
was speechless with surprise and indignation. The next
minute he was after the whirlwind, and when they both
disappeared round the corner there wasn’t more than
two-and-a-half lengths separating them. I followed as
fast as I could, for I wanted to see what sort of a strangle
hold he was going to get on the whirlwind.
“ When I come in sight of him again the whirlwind was
just about played out, but there was a large yellow dog
emerging from the dust. Whether my tarrier connected
the yellow dog with his recent trouble or not I don’t
know, but before I could say knife he had this hu°-e
yallow dog by the throat and was bumping his head
red-gum culvert.
“ Another time, X remember” the tarrier owner was
continuing, when, in straightening himself up, he swept
his glass of beer off the table with his elbow. The ex-
pression of extreme human anguish on his face changed
the trend of the conversation. A stout, bloated man
with a heavy drooping moustache held a sympathetic
audience for the rest of the evening with heart-break inn-
narratives of times when a merciless fate had similarly
snatched the beer from his lips, and tales of people tie
had known whose liquor had dropped on the floor just
when they needed it most. J
THE OLD BUFFER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scene : Any country place.
Dramatis Personce : Any veteran, any youth.
“ These times they ain’t no times at all—
When I was young ” (the old man rasped)
“ I’ve seen me walk a hundred mile.”
The young man gasped.
“Now just for thirty mile or so
You need a horse” (the old man blared),
“ And pay for dunnage in the coach.”
The young man stared.
“ Once on the road me waggon broke,
I put meself ” (the old man croaked)
“ Into the shafts and dragged the load.”
The young man ch< ked.
“ Me horse and me we both could go
’Thout food or sleep ” (the old man bragged)
“ A week or two, nor turn a hair.”
The young man sagged.
“ Now you must have three meals a day
And sleep each night ” (the old man groaned),
“ And still I’d lick ye, one hand tied.”
The young man moaned.
“ Do have a try,” wild prayed the youth ;
“ I’d like the fun ” (the old man jeered),
“ But ain’t got time to dig your grave.”
The young man cleared.
x.s.w.
BIRRIBI.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
P.H.C. (Uruguay): (1) Don’t know what kind
of man the South American Socialist is ; but, fromyourde-
seriptiori, he isn’t a Socialist—he’s just a thief and a loafer.
Anyhow he doesn’t, from your account, seem to be any
more like the Australian Socialist than a Skye-terrier dog
is like a greyhound dog. (2) As regards the man who
lired John Burns from his factory because he was an
‘•almighty loafer’’—don’t believe it. Writer has seen
lots of men Hied in England for being trades-unionists, or
not being of tne boss’s politics, and they were always pro-
fessedly bred for loaHng. (3) Pars are quite, genuine.
We have compulsory education in Australia, and plenty
of laborers bushnien, etc., write mighty good prose and
verse They are the stuff the Australian Labor party is made
out of. (4) die Private Enterprise, the Australian believes
in self-help — i.e., in doing things for himself per medium
of the Parliament and Government which he creates, hi
some countries, the idea is to sit down helplessly
and wait till a syndicate or company does things
for the people. Even a good principle may be
carried too far, and the Legislature be burdened
with too many details; but, still, State manage,
meiit is mostly self-help, and Private Enterprise is mostly
public helplessness H.P. : liald tale of “profes-
sional gentleman ” who got drunk, was hurled off a
neighbor's fence, dumped in a Chow’s dray, and
otuerwise mishandled, left us cold and disinterested,
fjuch happenings are the very commonplaces of life....
EAP. : .Nothing whatever in them Wingkat: In-
tere'st rather feeble, though you haven’t a bad touch....
Xhorneycroft: Hopelessly dull and prosy J.A.S. : Has
au original flavor, out is faulty in execution.. ..Arthur
S • The swing of it is spoilt by occasional bad metre....
Jake: Impossible to extract any meaning from it....
U.S.T. : You have pathos and some little skill. Practice
snould do much for you O.S.G. : Faulty in rhyme and
metre Rosedale : Stick to prose for a while... .K.A.H.:
“ Old Loves ” has a good point, but the workmanship is
ciunisy “Triolet” is weak M. Carney: More zeal
than 5ki11.... K.E.S.: It very nearly squeezed through....
EM H ’ You have a long way to rise before you
reach print-1eve1.... Tice : Very poor stuff ... Pro :
Beep as was our love for the fate “Baddy, it does
not run to a free advt. for your friend, his one-time
favorite student... .Nodrob: A pleasing jape ; but it was
a popular canteen yarn among the Assyrians about the
time of Sennacherib, and it has grown worn and beer-
Stained and otherwise unacceptaiile with the speeding
. euis (q, : Has good touches, but the metre is defect-
ive H.J.G. : There are traces of spirit in it, but it
lacks strength and skill Manneriug: Js it a night-
mare, or what? Pierre M. : Well-intended, but clumsy
and inartistic Wait H. : “ Bogong moth” item been
told 100 times. As for the great mass of aboriginal names
and words that you send—are they real, or do you
invent them as you go along? Suspicion arises, be-
cause you write as if there was a recognised Australian
nigger language instead of whole crates of languages....
Cirkus: Tne plot of “The Fall of Bill’’may be reduced
to four simple little words, viz : “ He married a Yank."
That isn’t a thrilling enough fall for this journal. Write
us when Bill axes her or cuts her throat J.P.C.:
Could have been muon better done E.T. : A school-
master should not have written “Memories of She.” Also
“caress ’ doesn't rhyme with “best.” E.J.T.H.:
Bather well done, but more suited to a woman’s paper.
Myra : Picturesque and striking, but too ferociously
melodramatic. The verses begin well, but tail-off into
piam prose ...Marian Mason : -Not worth the 4d. short
postage they cost us E.H.G. : Both entirely unim-
pressive E.A.R.: Some of it is bright, but you have
had to fill-in with inferior material Colin C.: It
misses fire somehow Bass Hook: It’s a bit scrappy
and incoherent L.E.S : All true enough, no
doubt, but not well enough presented...
Thalia : A triolet is often just another name for laziness.
It, is a device whereby the same line serves over and over
again.. Geebob : Bou’t care for yarns about children,
God and the Creation. They divide naturally into three
classes : (l; Foolish ; (2) blaspnemous ; (3) damphoolish....
W.H. : You have the infernal hide to send, as “an ex-
perience that recently' befell you in Sydney,” a jest which
Lady Hamilton, shortly before Trafalgar, reproved the
late Nelson for retailing to her, pointing out to the
doomed mariner that the fragment was unHt for publica-
tion on tne grounds alike of age and nastiness... Melb.
The Alcott suicide (.alleged to have been nde Leigh-
ton) was no relation of the Claire Leighton who
was in Australia with the Gaiety Co. in ’ll5 ; nor die
the latter lady marry a bookmaker. She bestowed her
self on one Marks, a gilded soil of just-deceased Mrs.
Elizabeth Marks, of Sydney.. .. Aquen : Alleged remarks
of the Mayoress of Ballarat to the Hopetoun ladydidut
allure us worth a cent. And how “guarantee that all
happened absolutely as stated”? In what secret nook
were you blushing what time the Mayoress grew so in-
timately confidential? ...Stranger: Your communication
ranges from remarks about the postal department, the
Fiji cricketers, and “ the 'accommodating Spirit of Hod,
to broodings on the prevalence of wrecks and accidents.
It all boils down in vague and incoherent fashion to the
query: What are Asiatics? They are, in a general way,
colored persons whose ancestors were born in or came
from Asia, a section of the earth’s surface which you will
find indicated on any good map of the word....
C. 8.8. : Too many faults of detail.... Sarsaparilla: A
mere foolishness... .I.A.K. : The trail of the tyro is
over it all H.T.: It nearly scored.. ..B. Von L.: 100
shapeless and stragglesome.... A.E.T.: Obviously from
life, but you haven’t the requisite skill... .Trojan .An
ambitious failure.. ..Joe B. : Your hand is too heavy ioi
that kind of work.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. 8.8. : Drawing and joke both fail to arouse enthu-
siasm. .. .J.E.N. : Not very amusing, and your style o
art is too astonishing for publication P.W. (Tas.): 1°
have a certain gift, but you need a whole peck of stuo,.
before your drawings reach publication point—VV.M.Jv..
You write that you “have latterly developed a liking w
sketching and have been remarkably successful,’ andy
forward as a sample a nightmare in crimson, puce, ai
gamboge, representing two alleged human beings discus •
ing the drink curse. You are no artist; y 0 1) nev .
will be one ; and your friends who tell you otherwi
are malignant humorists from whom truth is absent.....
M. 8.: No, The Bulletin is not getting hypercritical wi
increasing years ; some of your jokes would P u ® le
paper in the first flush of infancy. Why, f’rinstan >
should G. Reid, on being asked to stop snoring m
railway sleeper, urge his fellow passengers “ not to ben
all they hear ”? Where is the point in your i® st 'f" r u a
old woman who, on being helped with her basket by
passing gent,” says, “ Oh, sure I know now you «m
the North.” What means that drawing of a stout y
assaulting a piano and near him a female assau , * ?
wood-heap, subscribed “ Ah, Who will Care for Mo
Now?” Sr: “Shadow” picture wouldn’t repro
well. Too confused.. ...P.O’S. : Declined owing toiw
fact that they didn’t make us laugh worth a ceil ••••
O. James: Idea a mere malapropism, and not
malaprop at that P.T. (Rockhampton): Drawing
bad ; joke imperceptible to the naked eye.


JoKe
r A ro«sl Coml)if7A+»or>s Ve nof
L S j CKin7es_ IjoweveK
f^ € y
be mo
Circun
R. B — /
jComme rci2yl dtfe’yti
■fior Vic I*l
teen 1? be Rented
doo
$C JettfeK
froim IOKIO
Cold
Storage
h ot
valuable Service^
rely /x Co'-nki oa
'jor 0 u s'»7esS
I regret" Itjat"
'ftfe tfew tV* f p
SUcTi
fo "
[SCnfctov PulspordJ
v %
To
hfobbk
U><%!
ithf-OK^
Mode I ~
o>Nec|| .
IT
Combiy v/itfj Premier Bents
reQoes'T To postpone ttje
Introduction ofttje (ommon—
Surplus R^ v «nue Bill,
till %z (onjerence
J^sv
a Jg>« ,,t^> (
To wlfaC* ta^ e T 7 o M r
( k Coyrje. |
delivered '
2vT> \t footle
€otlt/*d " Irj ctlj"»|->
1 So^twJjere.
We Toact> i
= Th-e /• y 4
-s^z:
Vv A Postmaster
complains ra,Hits VA vc
V Undermined Po < >l' Office.
iii /\ Chimney -fdjleri Sc
ifjc wbjl<, Aye n«w
down
VICTORIAN AND OTHERWISE.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming- Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
The uniform success of Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy has won
for it a world-wide reputation.*
Commonwealth Silver Lead Limited.
- CAPITAL - - £20,000.
Directors-Sir Lancelot Stirling K.C.M.G., President Legislative Council, S.A. ; A. Wigram Allen (Allen,
Allen and Hemsley), Sydney ; Dr. R. H. Todd, Sydney ; L. S. Drummond, F. L. Duffleld.
tor particulars of Ore Reserves, Sectional Plans of underground workings, and general prospectus, apply
DUFFIELD, HOPKINS, LIMITED, Managing Agents, Equitable Building, Ceorge Street, Sydney^
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A recent cable in half a hundred Aus-
tralian dailies recorded the thrilling circumstance
that Mr. Asquith’s chauffeur was fined £4 for
driving his boss's motor at an excessive speed.
SKUTHORP, CHAMPION ROUGH-RIDER.
At Clayney (N.S.W.) they have an aider-
man who beats Dick Whittington hollow. Mr.
Jacob Russart has been 25 years an alderman and
10 times Mayor, and in memory of these and
other facts he has been presented by the Blay-
neyites with an illuminated address and a silver
salver. Before Jacob took to innkeeping he was
one of the drivers who harried Cobb’s coach across
the mountains in the pre-railway days.
March 20 was the 36th anniversary of the
death of William Charles Wentworth, aged 79
years. He was born on Norfolk Island, where his
father was assistant-surgeon.
There seems a chance that Louis Horwitz,
the too-clever Victorian solicitor who was sen-
tenced in 1904 to six years’ hard labor, may secure
early release. He has been an exceptionally good
prisoner, and it is claimed that, having served
years, he has earned enough good-conduct marks
to justify his enlargement. Horwitz at the
beginning of his sentence used to say—more
or less seriously—that when he was released he
intended to go in for evangelist work of some
sort.
The residents of Rose Bay, Sydney, are
anxious about what is known as the Tivoli
beach. It is said to have been originally included
in a grant to the Cooper family, or to Cooper and
Levy, and to be private property, liable to closure
at any time. Tivoli House, fifty years ago, was
occupied by Captain Dumaresque, of a family that
was related to Governor Darling, and which came
out with him in search of pickings. One of the
family was afterwards superintendent of the A. A.
Company’s business at Stroud.
Australia’s new Governor-General is a
heap of things. Among others, he is an ear!,
Privy Councillor, a G.C. V. 0., an L.C.C.. a D.L.
and an alderman. Also he is a yeomanry major,
and has done a little in politics, and has been
Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, and is Lord High
Steward of Kidderminster, though what that
dreary carpet-manufacturing town of 25,000 popu-
lation requires a Lord High Steward for only the
high gods can tell. (In the encyclopaedia, Kidder-
minster comes between Kidd, the pirate, and Kid-
napping.)
A grand-daughter of that Captain Eben
Bunker who first came to Sydney about 1790, in
charge of a shipload of convict women, still lives,
aged 93. The captain, after making several voyages,
settled on Bunker’s Hill, a 3 the northern end of
Cumberland-street, Sydney, was then named.
Later on he sat down hard on a grant at Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) and named'it Collingwood, after
some family connection. The captain died in
1836, at the age of 74, and was buried in the old
cemetery at Liverpool.
“Quan”: Speaking of T. W. Connah,
Auditor-General of Queensland, “Macota” (B.
20/2/’08) says : “ Had he refused to authorise the
illegal payments made by the Philp Cabinet after
Parliament had thrice refused supply, his present
good record would have been a brilliant one.”
Well, it was Chelmsford who signed those war-
rants, on Connah’s refusal to do so ; therefore the
Auditor-General’s record continues to wear no
smudge on that account, anyway.
An old Australian identity, well-known to
out-backers of the’seventies and ’eighties, returned
for a look around the other day. “ Dan ” Kings-
land was a prominent driver and horse-breaker
about the times mentioned, and handled a lot of
rough animals for Cobb and Co., Kirk’s Bazaar
(Melbourne), Hill and Co.’s Bazaar (Adelaide),
and others. He went to Argentina in 1889, and
broke his arrival gently to the natives by taming
four grey outlaws for President Celman. Then he
went into the cattle and horse export business.
When England shut down on Argentine horses, on
account of foot-and-mouth disease, Dan started
freezing works —it isn’t implied that he froze the
horses. Swift and Co., of Chicago, took over the
business a little while back, and Dan bought a big
estate in Hampshire (Eng.), and put his coin down
in the cellar of the mansion. When he wants a
little loose change he goes down to that cellar with
a shovel and a coal scuttle, and brings up the
scuttle full of gold.
Ingenious explanation by Rev. John Fer-
guson, of St. Stephen’s, Phillip-street, of the
salary-trouble which led to the late Hope-
toun’s departure from these shores :
He bad a noble ideal of the duties of Governor-General,
and had it been given him to put his ideal into practice,
and to justify it, the office of Governor-General would
have been a potential and helpful factor in the develop-
ment of our national life. But the ideals of Lord Hope-
toun and of the democracy of Australia did not har-
monise, and he refused to be shut in a narrow and
meagre sphere, hedged by the politics of the day. His
ambition became a dream, and the dream melted and
vanished. Broken in spirit, deeply disappointed, sad at
heart, he turned away and left us. He knew that he
could not be here and be true to his own high ideals.
It is all beautifully vague and cobwebby, like
most church utterances.
“Stony”: Apropos that Ballarat incum-
bent who is being treated to warm words by his
committee for that he is not a “good dresser,”
although his flock admits him to be an excellent
preacher, and a broad churchman, and a lover of
mankind. Timeschange, in churches. Atthebegin-
ning of the Christian era, we are advised, raiment
hewed no frozen substance in church circles.
The devout wore any old thing, and poverty was
a hall-mark. Even of recent years—for instance,
in the time of the late St. Gregory, of All Saints’,
St. Kilda—the congregation had considerable ad-
miration for the ill-clad parson. St. J. H. Gregory
used to wear a very out-of-date black vest, backed
with ragged white, and there would be strange
flashings as he walked boldly against the north
winds. His attitude of prayer, when his soles
showed to the congregation, told a tale of self-
denial, for they were more hole than sole ; and if
he met a man in the street who was coatless, St.
Gregory would rip off bis own flowing tails and
thrust them upon the poor man—so runs the
yarn, at least. All these things counted unto him
for righteousness. But apparently that kind of
righteousness is quite off.
About a busted peer, and some side
issues:—
The cable reports that “ Lord Armstrong has assigned
his estate.” It doesn’t matter much to anyone in Aus-
tralia that the son of a successful engineer who, nearly 50
years ago, got £20,000 and some titles for inventing a new
system of artillery, has made ducks and drakes of the two
millions of money the old man left him, and piled up over
half-a-million of debt beside. But the old man was inter-
esting. In ’59 Britain badly wanted a big rifled gun, and
Armstrong had one to sell —a breech-loader with a fibrous
iron barrel and a complete system of projectiles and
fuses. The rifling was polygroove, and the projectile
had a coat of soft metal to take it. A very similar sys-
tem was adopted by the Prussian army at the same time.
Both systems soon showed defects. The Armstrong was
weak in the breech, and the lead with which the pro-
jectiles were coated got loose. Armstrong produced
a remedy in an entirely new system, muzzle-loading,
for a change, with a device for shunting the projectile
from one set of grooves to another. That system was
adopted and stuck to for close on 30 years ; specimens
of it can still be seen in Australia. The Prussians
set to work to improve their breech mechanism,
substituted copper rings for the lead coating of the
projectiles, and improved their gun by degrees, instead
of discarding it for something new and untried. The re-
sult is that the Germans have a system of artillery that
has stood the test of two great wars, while Britain has
entirely re-armed its artillery four times since it began to
use the rifled cannon on which the first Armstrong built the
big fortune which his son has gaily scattered to the dogs
and the winds.
How some Australians think of everything
in terms of borrowed money ! Editor Sowden, o
Adelaide Register, addressing 200 children last
week, told them jocularly that the value of a boy
to the country had been computed at £lOO
that of a girl at £l5OO. (Laughter.) Consequently
his audience was worth “ the interest on a debt or
10 millions sterling” (loud applause from the
interest).
A GENTLEMANLY VIEW TO TAKE.
EXAMINER IN CLASSICS : “ Tell us all you know about Dadalus."
CANDIDATE (floored but inspired): “ Er! Look here! I'd rather not-don't wish to speak ill
of any man— l've heard tales—he never hurt me—he’s dead now!"
A veteran Australian contractor completed
his job at Windsor (Vic.) recently, aged 86.
George Young came from Scotland in 1855. He
built the telegraph line from Melbourne to Port
Albert; the Gong Gong waterworks (near Bal-
larat, Vic.); the Ballarat-Creswick railway, and
the Boggabri-Narrabri (N.S.W.) railway.
A man who ate and drank and breathed
nothing but one idea for 20 years died, the other
day, at Broken Hill. His name was R. W.
English, and he was something of an engineer and
surveyor, with a scheme for supplying the town
and mines with vast quantities of water from a
reservoir he wanted somebody to build at Yanco
Glen, in the wild ranges. He nursed the gorge
for years, and fought actions, and formed syndi-
cates, and then gradually faded as the bottom
dropped bit by bit out of all his chances of fame
and wealth.
Mr. George Glen, Stipendiary Magistrate
of South Australia, who died recently at Mount
Gambier, was born at Brompton (England) in 1827,
and emigrated to S.A. in 1845, by the ship
Templar. For some years he was a squatter with
Samuel Davenport and William Vansittart. He
married a daughter of the first Bishop of Adelaide,
the fighting Augustus Short, whose portraits make
him look more like a member of the P.R. than a
mild and meek follower, etc. In September last
Mr. Glen celebrated his golden wedding.
“ T. A.W.” ; Be the Horton family cricket
team (B. 23/l/’08). Know a family named Hamil-
ton, living near Wagga (N.S.W.), that can put
quite a serviceable eleven into the field. This
family mixes wheat-growing with dairy-farming
more or less successfully, so it’s pretty evident its
members cannot find time hang too heavily on
their hands ; but still they manage to sandwich a
fair amount of cricket practice in between the
cult of the cow and the following of the furrow.
Though the youngest member of the team is not
more than eleven, there is not a single passenger
in the whole show. The younger cricketers are all
smart fields and liable to make runs, whilst the
older division comprises a really first-class wicket-
keeper, more than one useful bowler, and several
good batsmen. The team has played a number of
matches against neighboring clubs, and has al-
ways given a good account of itself. Several
members of the family are also fine tennis-players.
The City Court, Melbourne, is ruled by
Tom Monaghan, a Hkkald pressman, nearing his
70th birthday. He has been on the Hkrald
for 40 years, and has reported the City Court
for 30 of them. He knows more about
procedure than any of the lawyers and
police magistrates. Often, when
the conduct of a case is not to his
liking, he will deliver a short address
to the Court, which waits for him
with a benign smile, and then gener-
ally does what he tells it. He has
the right to call the gorgeous, silver-
bound inspector “Bill,” and to tell
the P.Ms. to speak up. But he has
earned it. Thirty years of the
sordid, decayed procession of drunks
and “lydies” which pours through the
cell doors into the old place—ye gods !
Not even the privilege of calling an in-
spector “ Bill” would atone for that.
The recently-deceased Miss Emmeline M.
Woolley was a familiar personage in Sydney
musical circles. For 40 years she taught music.
Her father was the first Principal of Sydney Uni-
versity, then situated where the Grammar School,
close by the Museum in College-street, now
stands. Returning from a visit to England, the
old gentleman was drowned when the London
went down in the Bay of Biscay. There have
been many ships that drowned quite as many
people, but the great, muddled, incompetent
steamer, which slowly pegged out in weather
which wasn’t really so very bad—which died from
sheer jerry-building and atrophy and goneness m
the back—has become a patch of history. Miss
Woolley was for a long time organist of St. John’s
Anglican Church, Darlinghurst, and she was also
for many years associated with Miss Pedley, also
dead, another musician, violinist, and vocalist
Miss Pedley was a niece of the one-time-famous
English contralto, Mrs. Sainton-Dolby. Miss
Woolley took a great interest in the welfare and
betterment of her sex, and had much to do with
the foundation of the Sydney Women’s College
Ex-constable Christopher Sparling, 0 f
Melbourne, is a man with a fine faith in himself.
He was dismissed the force in 1888, and now sues
Alick Peacock, as Chief Secretary, for wrongful
dismissal, claiming arrears of salary amounting to
£25,085, based '.:v* the screw he would have re-
ceived as senior-constable, second-class sergeant
first-class ditto, sub-inspector, and so on right up
the scale to Chief Commissioner.
Some birthdays for April : Judge “Brown
Jug ” Docker, 66 on the Ist; Dr. “ Blessings of
Poverty” Jefferis (S.A.), 75 on the 4th ; Canon
Boyce, 64, Treasurer Lyne, 64, and Brewer E. T.
Smith (S. A.), 78 on the 6th ; Parson A. R. Edgar,
58 on the Bth ; Rep. Batchelor, 43 on the 10th;
Chief Justice Way (S. A.), 72 on the 11th ; Argcs
McKinnon, 60 on the 12th ; Dr. Quick, 56 on the
14th ; Rep. Hughes, 45 on the 19th ; Rep.
Hutchison, 49 on the 20th ; Manager Northcote
(Adelaide S.S. Co.), 54 on the 21st; Attorney-
General Groom, 41 on the 21st; Rep. Knox, 58,
; nd Botanic Card* ns Dhettor Maiden, 4P, on
the 25th ; Richard Teece (A.M.P.), 61 on the
29th ; and F. B. Suttor, 69 on the 30th.
“Karl”: Re “German Charlie,” whose
death was noted in B. 5/3/’OB. His little house,
painted a peculiar shade of blue, was well known
to the railway travellers from Parramatta, for it
was situated just opposite the line, about midway
between Parramatta and Granville. I knew him
when he held his court at Riverstone. It was
then necessary to start prepared to wait three
days before seeing the Joss, so much was he in
demand. Riverstone saw more carriages in those
days than ever before or sinefe. For a while he
was quite fashionable. As a small child, I was
lugged over by an anxious mother because I
wouldn’t grow fast enough to suit her. Saw him
many times after that, when he visited next door
to us. He appeared to have a violent hatred of
soap, water and socks, and always wore, when
possible, a pair of down-at-heel slippers. He was
lucky in never killing enough of his patients to
cause impertinent inquiry. As a rule, his medi-
cines were nothing more than harmless purgatives.
As his star waned, he became/more of a children’s
doctor, and invariably diagnosed worms first shot.
'Towards the end, he became afflicted rather
seriously with religion.
Dear Bulletin, —“Quan ” (B. 20/2’/08) is
in error re the Druce family. Sydney Henry (not
C. E.) of that ilk is at Burringhar, N.S.W.
Sydney Henry is a scrub chopper, and an un-
assuming, decent bloke (or
cove), who doesn’t want the
Portland dukedom.—Yours,
etc., Davo.
JINGO SENTIMENT ILLUSTRATED.
It is the flag our ancestors fought under.
Old Harry War man, who petered out the
other day after typ r ' .-matching aiutind a good
of Australia since 1840, is another instance of the
longevity of the compositor. If type-setting
doesn’t kill a man before he is 40 it general >
fortifies him against death till a patriarchal age.
Wurman started on the Melbourne Herald in
1840, and with the exception of a little time s P eII
in gold-mining, stood to “frames” in
Empire and other offices till he retired from & 1
S. M. Herald, a few years ago. There is, 1
would seem, in “comping” an atmosphere 0
quiet which more than compensates for the ris
of lead poisoning. If there be added to tn •
the advantage of having comped for Bt6 8 t 6
old Empire, a long life seems well assured,
would be interesting to learn what percentage
Empire comps died under CO. An amain S
number of Parkes’s patriarchs seem to have he
heard of at one time and another.
THE SNAKE OF KINMARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Kinmare(Vic.), on Monday, Miss D. Worrall had an
unpleasant experience. While dressing she put her foot
into one of her shoes, but feeling a soft obstruction in the
toe, took off the shoe and shook it. A brown snake
dropped out. Her father, armed with a poker, killed the
reptile, which was about 2ft. long.
Have ye heard of the snake that got into the shoe
Of the girl on the road to Kinmare?
He was twinty foot high, he was thirty foot through ;
He was forty foot long I declare.
How did he get in ? Well, you have got a face 1
If I saw him get in, you may bet
With me on the scene—it would alter the case,
And he wouldn’t be getting in yet.
He was two foot across, he was three or four tall,
He was five from his head to his foot;
And what is a slip of a serpent at all
That couldn’t get into a boot ?
Do ye mind me 1 I say ’twas a bit o’ girleen.
With a neat little foot to be sure,
And a neat little shoe as there ever was seen
As it might be just there on the flure.
And the snake he was there, and the shoe it was here,
And the girl she was not far behind ;
He was two or three inches around, do ye hear 1
He was four inches long, do ye mind 1
And the reptile he saw ’twas a nice little shoe,
So he snuggled inside for a doze ;
And the girleen she very soon came along too,
And popped in her nice little toes.
But she thought she could feel something soft in the end,
So she pulled off the shoe mighty quick ;
And the snake he fell out, you may safely depend—
Do ye mind ? He was forty foot thick.
Well, it may be not forty ; ye mightn’t be wrong—
Such a serpent might make a shoe pinch ;
But, one way or other—wide, tall, broad, or long—
They say he was more than an inch 1
x.s. w.
WAIF.


America s Battleship Squadron en route for Australia
£
J.
hr-
k,
X
-
m
w
+4
M
%
ra
T
U
L»«
m
/
m,
r
in
*4
VA
H
■u?
»
m.
i
4
1
ss»
. ■
M
S*|?
yp
Prime Minister DeaKin calls for three cheers for “YANKEE DO >DEE
: : c
817 tons of “ YANKEE DOODLV were smoked by Australia during 1907.
Centenary Hall, Sydney,
March 14, 1908,


ROBEY ENGINES.
THE FINEST ON EARTH.
PORTABLES THRASHERS—TRACTIONS.
Sole Agents —ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., 64 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY: Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Stre
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
nPNnin.n* Pall Mall*
IN STOCK—Winding B twin * .all ® lasBes of New and Second-hand Mining: Plants
° g eS ’ A Mi n^n' npreBBors ’ nin £ Winches, Stamper Batteries,
« i _ Mininfr purposes, Miles of Piping- all sires
en s o . eddaway & Co.JjCenuine Camel Hair Belting; Ransomes Sims’,
——Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
in any Quantity-
Steam Pumps for all
and Jefferies Ltd 's
The WILDCAT
COUMN
Castlemaine Woollen Co. (Vic.)
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1902.. 5 p.c. = £l3OO £2034
1903.. £2214 4 „ „ 1078 £4OO £736 2770
£lB9O of Reserves transferred to Capital 880
1904.. 2155 4 p.c. = 1156 750 .249 1129
1905 .. 1320 3 „ „ 900 420 1549
1906 .. 1280 3 „ „ 900 380 1929
1907.. 2008 4 ~ „ 1200 716 92 2021
Dec.,
1907 .. 1686 Nil 1686 3707
The present is an interim report, and no dividend is
declared. To cope with the extra work which is
expected to arrive as the result of the higher
duties, six new looms have been got in ; and wages,
which ran to £2672 in the June-December half of 1906,
amounted in the past half-year to £3968, an increase of
very nearly 50 per cent. —wherein we see again the blight-
ing effects of Protection upon a young country which
wants population, and therefore work for a population to
do. The little Castlemaine Co. (capital £30,000) has,
however, much leeway to make up ; for besides £4500 of
debentures it has accumulated an overdraft of £12,975, the
latter an increase of £3505 in 12 months. This, though
not over-satisfactory from the co.’s point of view, is good
business from the point of view of the bank, and the
depositor who supplies the bank with money—always
provided the tariff is kept high enough to assure the fac-
tory a reasonable amount of prosperity, and thus keep
the security good. Some foolish people think that only
the workman benefits by Protection; well, here’s a
sample case where benefit accrues to the bank share-
holder and depositor, amongst others.
Queensland Meat Export and Agency Co. :
Added Nomi-
Dividends and to Re- nal Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
1897 .. £8,189 Nil £8,189 £41,849
1898 .. 11,011 Nil 11,011 52,860
1899 .. 47,340 10 p.c. = £11,474 35,866 88,726
1900 .. 75,050 10 „ „ 11,474 63,576 152,302
1901 .. 39,480 10 „ „ 11,474 28,006 180,308
1902 .. 72,308 20 ~ „ 22,949 49,359 229,667
Forfeited capital .. .. 240 229,907
1903 .. 52,793 10 p.c. = 11,474 41,319 271,226
Loss.
1904 .. 9,472 Nil 261,754
Profits.
1905 .. 20,330 Nil 20,330 282,084
1906 .. 22,206 Nil 22,206 304,290
Depreciation written off £102,056 202,234
Loss.
lqo7 „( 1,647 Nil 200,587
( Depreciation written off, £19,799 180,788
For many years past nothing has been written off ; but a
reserve., originally called a reserve for renewals and re-
placements, has been built up, and, apparently, such assets
as freeholds, stations, etc., have been kept in at cost price.
Now this reserve, which had reached £102,056, has been
wiped out, and “ factories at Brisbane, Townsville, and
Burketown, and other premises ” have been written down
to correspond ; also, for the past year, a further £14,799
has been written off those items, and £5OOO off pastoral
properties. The latter, which now stand in the books at
£129,720, were acquired mainly from or through the Bank
of N. S. Wales in 1903 ; and those transactions were the
beginning of the big overdraft which the co. now has to
shoulder. In the matter of public liabilities, the recent
record stands like this :
1902. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Overdraft .. .. Nil £72,400 £119,861 £95,433
Creditors, secured .. £26 647 56,812 41,139 25,350
Creditors, ordinary.. 20,136 20,998 61,534 31,487
The big cattle-station purchases, made at a droughty
time when the market in such properties was very slack,
looked like good business ; and, as a matter of fact, one
of the small properties has been got rid of during the
past year at a profit of £sooo—the £5OOO which is used to
write down the other station assets. Had this co. been
only a breeder and seller of cattle, it would,
no doubt, have lately done well ; but it is a
buyer too, and the profit shown by its own stations has
been just about mopped up by the losses on the Ross
River and other meat works. In other words, it has had
to sell its tinned and frozen cow in foreign parts at a
price which gave no profit in view of the almost boom
values of live and dead meat in Australia. A few beef-
breeders have made fortunes ; but neither the Australian
consumer nor the Australian meat-packer has benefited
by the remarkably good time the pastoral country has
had for four years. Going back to this co. in
particular, it is very doubtful whether the assets
have been written down hard enough ; that is to
say, it is very doubtful whether a large amount of
future profits ought not to be absorbed in the same
way as the £19,799 has been absorbed in the past year.
One can judge so, at any rate, from the fact that, ever
since they first figured in the balance-sheet—in 1904 —the
Singapore Cold Storage Co.’s shares have stood at
£14,181, notwithstanding that those shares have gone to
a heavy discount. The directors say that, until Aus-
tralian live stock gets cheaper, “ frozen meat business
must virtually cease”; but, unfortunately for this co.,
that means hanging up most of the assets and letting the
capital lie unproductive ; and, when stock gets cheaper,
the co.’s Gulf stations won’t show such good results.
Altogether, then, the outlook isn’t cheerful; and on
account of the heavy debt, the risks are bigger than they
used to be in a business that always was erratic.
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance Co. Ltd. (Sydney)
Expenses Total Added
Total and Out- to
Aug., Income. Claims. Dividends, goings. Funds.
1898.. £6,393 £751 £4,423 £5,174 £1219
1899.. 7,252 992 5,102 6,094 1158
1900.. .9,386 1277 5,934 7,211 2175
1901.. 11,023 1483 6,551 8,034 2989
Taken
from
Funds.
1902.. 12,657 3775 13,633 17,408 4751
Added to
Funds.
1903.. 17,235 2380 13,879 16,259 976
1904.. 18,146 2765 13,964 16,729 1417
1905.. 18,547 3665 12,412 16,077 2470
Taken
from
Dec., Funds.
1905.. 6,059 2019 4,091 6,110 51
Added to
Funds.
1906.. 21,048 5767 12,801 18,568 2480
1907.. 25,714 6848 14,737 21,585 4129
This co., which began in a very unpromising way in
Queensland a few years ago, continued in that same
fashion for longer than was good for its health. The re-
sult (or part of the result) is shown hereunder :
Total accumulated funds .. .. £16,114
Office property written up (1898).. £10,095
„ „ „ ~ (1901).. 5,500
£15,595
~ ~ written down (1902).. 5,500
10,095
Insurance Fund as represented .. .. £26,209
On this showing, of the £26,209 to which the insurance
fund is alleged to amount, £10,095 consists of paper.
That is to say, the directors in 1898 bought the Queens-
land Deposit Bank buildings for £13,120, “ and,” the
directors reported, “made a gain of £lO,BBO according to
the valuation of that asset ” ; so that the premises, which
were bought in 1898 for £13,120 appeared in the next
balance sheet as worth £24,000, and the assurance fund
jumped up to correspond. What the property was really
worth or what it is worth now there is no way of telling
from the accounts. Interest and rents received amounted
for last year to £1416; and on the average of the
insurance fund, as alleged, plus the shareholders’ capital
(now £10,632), that means £4 Is. 4d. per cent. But there
is a mortgage of £9500 ; and £390 was paid as interest.
That must be deducted from the total income from
interest, so the return comes down to £2 19s. per cent, on
the average of the assets at book value. And as
the co. has £17,500 in public securities, it is obvious that
the return from the freehold is under £2 19s. per cent.;
and that throws a very grave doubt not only upon the
book value of the property, but also upon the alleged
insurance fund—not the whole of it, of course, but part
of it. On the other hand, this is a proprietary office,
and, some new shares having been issued lately, the
capital now exceeds the amount by which the directors
wrote up property ten years ago.
The business is mainly industrial, with tables
for accident and similar insurance. The expense rate is
therefore necessarily high ;
Outgoings (apart prom Claims) Compared with Income.
1900 .. £63 4 5 per cent. 1904 .. £76 19 1 per cent.
1901 .. 59 8 7 „ „ 1905 .. 66 18 11 „ „
1902 .. 107 14 3 „ „ 1906 .. 62 6 4 „ „
1903 .. 80 10 6 „ „ 1907 .. 57 6 2 „ „
In accordance with the present much improved policy,
no dividend has been paid for three years past, which
improves the look of things. It is still, however, shock-
ingly dear insurance. The premiums amounted to
£24,296, and the expenses (apart from interest) were
£14,347, or 59 per cent, of the premiums. That is, of
every £1 of premiums 11s. 9d. went in expenses, leaving
Bs. 3d. for insurance. If this is the best that Private
Enterprise can do in the way of working-men’s insurance,
it is so shockingly poor a best that the State will have
to consider the position before long.
There is an item “ Legal expenses, £413.” It
suggests that things have been happening in connection
with this office. As before remarked, the office was estab-
lished in Queensland, and in 1901 the present Federal
Chief Justice, in a Brisbane case, said that in the begin-
ning “the co. consisted of Harold (managing director),
Dr. Ure, his children and friends.” Arrangements were
made between Harold and the co. which have never been
published, but which apparently included a provision for
a stiff annuity ; and some time ago the co. (which is
under entirely different management nowadays) made up
its mind that some part of that arrangement ought to be
contested. There were threats of action and counter-
action, and how it all ended The Bulletin doesn’t know,
for the matters didn’t get into the courts. Of these
things nothing is said in the directors’ report—the only
suggestion is contained in the line from the balance-sheet
quoted above.
* * * •
The Australasian Mutual Live Stock In-
surance Co. (Melbourne): —
Deficit
(Goodwill
Carried not
to reckoned
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, an asset).
1899 .. £471 Nil £471 £1750
1900 .. 492 Nil 492 1258
1901 .. 519 Nil 519 739
Reserves.
1902 .. 758 Nil 758 19
1903 .. 771 Nil 771 790
1904 .. 839 Nil 839 1629
1905 .. 908 20 per cent. =£6B6 222 1851
1906 ~ 1145 18 „ „ 686 459 2310
1907 .. 1810 26J „ „ 1283 527 2837
1908 .. 2009 2Sf „ „ 1283 726 3563
The distribution for the year consists of 6d. per share div.
and 6d. per share bonus ; and the latter is withheld, as
usual, in order to increase the capital. The gradual in-
crease of capital out of profits explains why £1283 is
26§ per cent, one year and only 23J per cent, the next.
In other respects the co.’s movements have been :
1903. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Premiums £3719 £7568 £7303 £7672
Interest, etc 151 250 299 489
Claims, etc 2332 5635 4696 5108
Claims, per cent, of pre-
miums .. .. 62'7 74 - 4 64’3 66 '6
Expenses .. .. .. 768 1037 1062 995
Expenses, per cent, of
premiums .. .. 20 - 7 13'7 14'5 12'9
This comparison would be more satisfactory (and so would
the co.’s published accounts) if returned premiums were
not lumped with claims; Though it has had its bad
times, the Mutual Live Stock Insurance is, on the whole,
a profitable co., which has been working its little side-
line for nearly 25 years ; and, in the keener competition
during the last few years, it finds its good name sticking to
it well. Its capital is small (it still amounts to only £5452),
but is being steadily built up ; and that is a good thing,
because in the matter of live-stock insurance in Australia
there seems to be room for a much stronger co. to do a
much larger business. It is a field in which, no doubt,
there are deep pitfalls ; but it also appears to be a field in
which there is room for a good deal of mutually-profitable
cultivation.
* * * *
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Net Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
Jan., 1903.. £12,926 30 p.c. = £10,185 £2741 £18,413
Tn ,„ IQn o / 5,610 10 „ „ 3,500 2110) 9a ™
July, 1903.. | Unexplained additions 8000 / 28 ’ 68d
Jan., 1904.. 2,840 10 p.c.= 3,500 27,863
i i /2,911 10 „ „ 3,500 \ ~
July, 1904.. | Written off, £13,000 f 14 ’ 274
Jan., 1905.. 5,052 7£p.c.= 2,625 2427 16,701
July, 1905.. 6,254 7% „ „ 2,625 3629 20,330
Jan., 1906.. 6,593 7} ~ „ 2,625 3968 24,298
July, 1906.. 6,311 10 ~ ~ 3,500 2811 27,109
Jan., 1907.. 6,275 10 „ „ 3,500 2775 29,884
July, 1907.. 7,955 10 „ „ 3,500 4455 34,339
Jan., 1908.. 8,826 10 „ „ 3,500 5326 39,665
This co., handling freight and forage, is making a rapid
recovery from the trouble which hit it four years ago,
when it found that a revaluation of assets was necessary
—when it found also that it didn’t have some assets that
it thought it had. As far as the published accounts show,
all the three strings to the co.’s bow have lately brought
in fatter results than usual. The Queensland business
made a profit of £1852, the best for a few years past (12
months ago the results had got very low); and the
McCulloch Carrying Co., which is a branch of Wright,
Heaton and Co., made £ll9O. The N. S. Wales business
contributed the rest. But, while profits have increased
rapidly, so have risks. This statement of assets shows
how: —
January, January, January, January
1903. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Cash .. ..£33,032 £8,030 £12,735 £5,351
Premises, etc. .. 15,447 18,101 18,676 19,911
Stock .. .. 15,140 37,463 32,184 35,505
Book debts .. 55,293 64,463 68,550 90,567
McCulloch Co. . . 22,203. 14,418 16,478 19,077
In five years stock and book-debts have increased from
£70,433 to £126,072 ; and both these are items that are
liable to give trouble. Probably by way of preparation
the co. is now building up a contingencv fund ;
£3OOO was voted to it for a start last year,
and £2OOO now goes to join the first amount. These
sums are so far included above in the reserves. The in-
crease of stock and book debts has outstripped the co.’s
own means, and its liabilities have in 12 months lumped
from £46,991 to £58,997. (The capital is £70,000, of which
£12,500 represents the McCulloch Co.’s capital.) At the
best of times the business is speculative, partly on
account of the rapid changes in the market-value of the
merchandise stock this co. chiefly handles; but just at
present the risks are heavier than usual.
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Melbourne).
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Loss. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1898 ... £284 Nil ~ 4,04 '
Profits. „ q9 o
1899 .. 1176 4 p.c. =£Boo *876
1900 .. 1926 ii ~ „ 900 £457 569 1492
1901 .. 1905 5 „ „ 1000 905
1902 .. 1818 5 „ „ 1000 715 103 3oW
I*3 .. 1464 4„ „ 800 - 664 3164
Unclaimed Dividends .. ••
1904 .. 1517 4 p.c. = 800 476 241 3425
1905 .; 1537 4„ „ 800 737 4162
1906 .. 1665 4 „ „ 800 §65 502/
1907 ~ 2792 5 „ ~ 1000 1'92 68JW
The directors’ report is not as clear as it ought to be,
wherefore it is not plain whether the dividend is 4£ per
cent, or 5 per cent, for the year. There was an interim
div. at the rate of 4 per cent. ; now 1 per cent, bonus is
paid, but whether that is for the year or the half-year
the directors don’t say in intelligible language. The co.
formerly had a paid capital of £40.000, and in 1894 also
had mortgages and overdrafts totalling £29,111. Ihe
property representing the debt and the capital shrivelled
up when the boom broke; but as the debt didn t
shrivel up, the co. had to write off half its capital,
notwithstanding that, in the vain hope of staving
off that calamity, it had gone without dividends
for years. The overdraft has been got rid of, the
mortgage has been reduced to £18,950, £lOOO has been
paid for a new scrap of Little Oollins-street, and £l5OO is
owing on that purchase, business has looked up very
much during the year, and a fine increase is shown in
profits in spite of rather more than usual having gone in
replacements. As to replacements, by the way, £5OO of
the reserves represents “Furniture and Machinery De-
preciation account”; and, as “machinery, furniture,
plate, etc.,” haven’t been written down during- the past
year or two, it looks as though both the true reserves and
the real profits for the last year or two may be rather less
than the table above says they are.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividend (10 p.c.)
and Bonus on
Net Purchases (10 To Re- Re-
Profits. p.c. bonus), serves. serves.
Julv, 1902.. £5870 £5576 £294 £14,739
Jan., 1903.. 6862 6163 699 15,438
July, 1903.. 5806 5938 15,306
Jan., 1904.. 6829 6564 265 15,571
July, 1904.. 6658 6451 207 15,778
lan 1905 J 8195 7250 945 16 ’ 723
’’ ” ( Premiums on new shares 6887 23,610
July, 1905.. 8410 7188 1222 24,832
Jan., 1906.. 8925 7751 1174 26,006
July, 1906.. 8062 6995 1067 27,073
(11J p.c. bonus)
Jan., 1907.. 9138 8298 840 27,913
July, 1907.. 8809 8251 558 28,471
Jan., 1908.. 9302 9102 200 28,671
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate only.
The employees’ bonus has been estimated at £5OO and de-
ducted from profits ; and it has been also estimated, on
past records, that £2BO of the purchasers’ bonus won’t
be called for. If these figures work out all right, the
addition to the reserves will be the smallest for years and
will cast doubt upon the society’s ability to keep up the
thumping two-and-threepenny bonus or discount on cash
purchases. But even that won’t be altogether unsatis-
factory. Take this comparison :
Gross Profit Work- Proportion
Cash on ing Ex- Expenses to
Receipts. Sales, etc. penses. Receipts.
Jan., 1897.. £50,834 £11,783 £7,796 15-33 per cent.
Jan., 1900.. 67,521 15,997 10,158 15-05 „
Jan., 1905.. 98,408 24,165 14,974 15'2 ~
Jan., 1906.. 104,062 25,738 15,667 35’06 ~
Jan., 1907.. 105,012 25,822 15,489 1475 „
July, 1907.. 102,019 25,272 15,262 14-96 ~
Jan., 1908.. 113,173 27,800 17,290 15'28 „
The expenses have moved up ; and if that is due to better
wage and labor conditions, shareholders and purchasers
may very well accept the movement with satisfaction,
because of recent statements that the employees at these
stores have been rather poorly treated ; and that wasn’t a
good reputation for any co-operative stores to have.
Moreover, the gross profit on the turnover (that is, the
profit before deducting working expenses) has shrunk a
little, though even now it amounts to 24 - 5 per cent. 'The
“ Civil Service ” is a large dealer in imported stuffs, since
its constituency includes many of the S. F. brand, for whom
Australian goods are not good enough ; and the shrinkage
in the percentage of profit suggests that the duty is not
always passed on, and that the middleman has some-
times to pay—wherefore the middleman’s great noise
about the iniquity of the tariff. The co.’s liabilities to
the public as at January 31 were £20,928, as against
£12,612 twelve months previously. The increase is repre-
sented by stock and the premises and fittings to accommo-
date it.
• * • *
Apropos the new Austral Hat Mills Co., and
the remarks on the prospectus in B. 19/3/’OB, Mr. A.
Kozminsky, one of the directors of the vendor co.,
writes : “ Tiik Bulletin says there is very little ordinary
capital, and the value of preference depends, of course,
upon,the extent of ordinary capital ; and we, therefore’
think it advisable to put before you the reasons which
actuated us in making the first issue of the ordinary
capital small. We think you will admit that it is in the
best interests of the new co. that we have done so. We
are satisfied,-unless unforeseen circumstances arise,such as
adverse legislation or labour troubles, the ordinary shares
will get at least 10 per cent, per annum ; and we, therefore,
feel that these shares should before long command a very
substantial premium. It is for that reason, too, that the
vendor company, instead of charging goodwill, thought
it sufficient recompense to get the option on another 5000
ord. shares. This clearly shows that they have absolute
confidence in the business, and that they prefer the ordi-
nary shares to cash. The preference shares are there-
fore, an undoubtedly safe investment. The balance of
the ordinary shares will, of course, be at the disposal of
the new- co., to be issued as required, and at a substantial
premium.”
* » * *
The friendly criticism of the Austral Hat Mills
prospectus, last week, has apparently had the effect of
liberalising the proposals with regard to the rights of
preference shares, of which the whole public issue con-
sists. A wire received from the promoting co. on Tues-
day stated that the articles of association will provide
that, after ordinary shares receive 10 per cent prefer-
ence shares will rank with ordinary as far as the’surplus
is concerned. This is a valuable concession, since the
present issue of ordinary shares is limited to 5000 (all to
be taken by the vendors). Now, therefore, the matter
stands as to the distribution of profits—(l) Pref. shares
will be entitled to 7 percent, (cumulative) ; (2) ordinaries
get the next £5OO ; (3) thereafter, until further ordinaries
may be issued, all shares rank alike for dividend.
**■**
Wade’s special Mining Court at Newcastle has
broken down, temporarily at any rate, not through any
hostility on the part of either owners’ or coal-miners’
unions but simply because the Coal Miners’ Federation
b. a * n °x„ >rot P °x We x eno *^ h t 0 control the wheeler and
othei boys, who have been causing repeated stonn-ures
The position therefore is that while in Sydney theVade
Government, through the new Industrial Disputes Bill is
trying to weaken the influence of the unions, and hopes
w x"? , W ’ thoUt , th ? se b °dies, in Newcastle Judge
Ilyvdon has discovered that even now such a strong body
as the Coal Miners Federation isn’t strong enough. The
failure of the special court at Newcastle under these cir
enticisni yet directed
The big trouble at the beginning of the New-
castle commotion, nearly six months ago, arose out of a
difference of opinion as to what ought to be the sellW
(and therefore the hewing) rate. The owners did not
believe that they could maintain as high a rate as the
miners believed possible. Up to now it cirtainly looks as
though the owners had the better advices at that Sne
or with the collapse of the industrial boom coal has
n* « lr V PnCe ‘'fP'diy m Europe and America Best
Cardiff steam coal, quoted at 21s. in July, was last'month
back to 16s. 9d. ; Newcastle (Eng.) steam coal
July, had sagged to 12s. ; and foundry coke hid . in
from 265. 6d. to 19s. As about 60 per cent of th ,
Wales coal exports are to foreign ports, this fall in • 8 -
of foreign coal must presently squeeze down the pticeB
value of the competing Newcastle product. mar ket
The fire which broke out last century in u.
Broken Hill Prop, mine has caused a bit of trouhl
to the miners, owing to the pyroligneous a
through into the workings. The situation ho
isn’t anything like as bad as it was early i n ions
work had to be suspended for a while—after tivo ’ ■
had been suffocated—and between £20,000 and
had to be spent on strengthening the fire-break*™
Since early in the ’nineties the big mine has-neveV tc ’
free from fire, and years ago all hope of stampinsr 't
was abandoned. In the old parts of the mineO ° ut
timber and refuse rock are hopelessly mixed and th ? ° n
wood goes on smouldering, and the ore providers
fuel also. Screens or walls of waste material (tail' 6
etc.) have been built at both ends of this affected™
They are as solid as possible, but occasionally a
caused, and then the smoke and gas work their '*
through. As finer tailings are now made at the varT*''
works, the additions to the screens and filling are 11?
more compact than the old walls, and reduce "the risk* 1 ' <
further serious trouble from the huge kiln. Kso
* * * *
Looking at the cavity on the surface of Broken
Hill Block 14, the country is seen to have a disti
underlie to the north-west, in the direction of the Britt
boundary, from which point the recent “ drag ” appeir h
to come. There is, or was, an old unfilled stope on th
British side of the boundary ; and this cavern, lonir i
accessible on account of broken ground intervening n '
now under the suspicion of having been the cause of th*
recent sensational movement.
The responsible officials at the Zinc Corporation’s
big plant, Broken Hill, are still losing a lot of sleep in
the effort to tame the zinc problem, so that it maybe
handled by three men and a boy. Capital work is being
done by the Elmore machines, but so far they have not
been persuaded to devour the requisite tonnage. The
final separation of the product by first burning out the
oil and then putting the concentrates over Wilfley tables is
also presenting an obstinate front, and the Corporation’s
scheme is still a long way from complete realisation.
* * * #
J. G. C. Knoblanche, an old battler in the
Turon district (N.S. W.), who has tired a good mam-
people with his enthusiastic stories of the great hidden
mineral wealth of those parts, is seeing one of his big
schemes put to trial. For years he has had the idea that
gold-bearing deep leads would be found under the basalt
north-north-w’est of the Turon ; in fact, 40 years ago
gold-diggers found both gold and gems in patches of gravei
and river-drift exposed on the fringes at the junction of the
basalt and the country-rock. Others beside Knoblanche
have, of course, tried to get at the probable wash. In
1870-1 one J. Hawkins formed a syndicate; but it wasn’t
big enough for the job. Still it got plenty of encourage-
ment. Knoblanche was a member of that syndicate, and
with the others, put up 255. a share every other week!
The lately-deceased Mark Hammond was another
member. For years the project of probing under the
basalt slept ; then Knoblanche, returning to the district,
revived it, and got encouraging reports from the Mines
Department. Twelve months ago mine-manager R. X,
Wells was incited to examine the prospects ; and, as a
result, three 80-acre claims were taken up on private
lands, and the Mt. Wells Co. was formed in Melbourne,
with A. J. Peacock as manager. The co. started
tunnelling about five months ago, on the north-eastern
fall of Mount Andrews, beneath the basalt; and the hole
is in 400 ft. Bores have been put up and gravel has been
found between the country rocks (slate)and the basalt;
and during the last few weeks very 7 good gold prospects
have been got from the drillings.
* * » »
From Wellington (N.S.W.): Mitchell’s Greek
Freehold people are now engaged erecting a large cyanide
plant to treat the accumulated tailings of the past 30
years’ stamping, and J. Bull anticipates reaping a golden
harvest from the new contraption. The old mine has
been given a rest, and all the energy is being put into
Dick’s Reward, where it is said large bodies of payable
stone exist. The Federal is again in full swing, and said
to be doing well. The Commonwealth, the tough pro-
position acquired lately 7 by H. R. Denison, man of pluck
and tobacco, has again started, and water-jacket smelting
is in full swing, under the control of metallurgist T. J.
Green way. It is to be hoped he will be more successful
than his predecessors have been. The mine of the
hour is the Welcome Jack, managed by yEneas
McDonald. This is situated a mile east of the
Commonwealth. It contains a formation deposited
between a slate and porphyritic formation. The matrix
containing the gold is a pure sediment. The lode has
been prospected for 900 ft. along its course. The ore
occurs in shoots and pipes ; the pipe now beingworkedat
the 145 ft. level is 16ft. wide and 30ft. long, but its
southern limit has not been reached. A 3ft. 6in. Hunt-
ingdon mill is putting through 120 tons per week, work-
ing two shifts. The cost of mining, milling and cartage
is 10s. per ton, and the gold returns are half-an-ounceper
ton over the plates. The mine and milling plant were
started at an outlay of £5OO, and the first three runs will
return the whole of the capital expended. Tailings are
being stocked for future treatment. They have just
cleaned up for lOOoz. gold, after running 96 hours.
* * * #
When the New Hillgrove Prop, new shaft, sunk
some distance away from the disturbed area, reached a
depth of 1310 ft. a vein of good-looking stone was cut. It
was then thought to be identical with the “bigreef’
worked some years since by 7 the Baker’s Creek Co. This
vein is about 15in. wide, and has been proved 120 ft. lower
down the shaft (at 1430 ft.) by a crosscut. The reef has
been driven 30ft., and carries coarse gold. The Prop, has
extended time in which to pay for some of the new plant,
but for all that a lucky find of this sort comes in handy
Crosscutting for this vein at other levels should prove
interesting. Prospecting for parallel veins near a rich
shoot of gold is good policy 7, and Baker's Creek is also
doing this. No. 13 is being stoped, and some rich ore
obtained ; so the mill return may improve. The last
crushing was 220 tons for 5020 z. At the Eleanora several
levels are being stoped, and the 15-head should work to
its full capacity now the firewood and water difficulty is
done with.
* * * *
Great Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) appears to have
srtuck a patch, or else a few favored tributors have got on
to a very good wicket. A 25 percent, royalty 7 is not usuallj
levied or accepted when the outlook for either party >
doubtful, yet this rate has been ruling at No. 1 for man)
months past. The co. has received over £3OOO in royalty j
tributors have divided large cheques; and Moss Bros,
metallurgical treatment works should have made n
equally good thing out of the supposed “refractor)
concentrates and tailings, which they purchased, it 1
Understood, for £5OO. The shoot of ore worked by trw
tributors is 100 ft. long; and, though it is stopr
7ft. wide, they are still leaving an unascertained tin
ness of ore standing on either hand. No. 1 Co. s rep
for this year is nearly 7 due now, and should form inter -
ing reading. The crushings since last July have been
date 701 tons for 31090 z. of bullion, in addition toanio
realised for tailings. Tributors have now 7 leased a
head battery on their own account, instead of crusn s
at a contract mill.
Golden Ridge shares have again been forced “P
to the 40s. mark on developments at bottom level.
ore channel is embraced in a wedge-shaped pie e
country 7 formed by 7 two lodes and a crosscourse,
point of the wedge being downwards. According toT
of the survey ed upper levels, this wedge-point mu
very near at hand in the present lowest level, an
crosscut at that level has been pointed t 0^ arQ toa
richest splash of ore. When driving has been don
fair extent, a better idea will be obtained regarding
true vertical extent of this wedge of ore ground. >-
are practically held in one family circle, so ‘ specs
must reckon upon a close market in all dealings-
* ■* * *
Great Boulder during February
rather, re-treated — lo,973 tons of old tailing


ABSOLUTE security
for Trust Management
can only be obtained
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents, (Sic.
4. &. 6 Spring' Street,
Sydney,
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser g Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plants
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for Landling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bieichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering,
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
‘ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. Ir some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 26 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [4
The Review, of Sydney, in its October, 1907,
Issue, writes regarding the new Combined Life Accident
and Invalidity Policy of the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited : —“ We must congratulate the
Colonial Mutual upon this latest development of its
business, and would at the same time commend this very
liberal and complete policy to the earnest consideration of
our readers.”*
* * * *
J. R. Godfrey, Mining Engineer, Broken Hill
Chambers, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, No. 21, Fourth
Floor. Mines inspected, reported on, and managed.
Late Government Inspector of Mines for N.S.W.*
* * * *
Suitable belting is a very important factor in
successful battery practice, and a belt that will grip and
is least effected by grit or damp, is absolutely the best for
all mining drives. Reddawav’s genuine Camei, Hair Belts
are easily first in these respects, and will outlast any other
belt on the market. Sole agents, Cameron and Suther-
land, Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo, and
agencies.* n
* • • »
P. W. Tewksbury is prepared to look into
legitimate Gold or Tin Dredging propositions in any part
of the Australian States. Properties reported upon, and
estimates furnished for Dredging plants. Arrangements
made for Legal Management of Companies on up-to-date
lines. Office No. 6 Room, sth Floor, Equitable Buildings,
Collins Street, Melbourne.*
* • » »
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* » -* *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
• » * »
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm fora Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
• • • •
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelkgo.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
Mining and engineering cos. usually have large
accumulations of wrought iron and steel scrap which, as
scrap, are practically valueless. Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd., 7 Bent Street, are introducing a patent alloy known
as Dartium, which has proved more valuable in converting
these accumulations into first-olass steel castings. The
process is very simple ; 10 per cent, of Dartium is added
to a crucible full of scraps—the whole is gradually heated
and when liquefied is poured into the moulds. The only
equipment required is a crucible furnace and a supply of
crucibles.*
LOHMANN <& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries. Melbourne •
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth loe and Refrigerating 00., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining:, Industrial and Eleotrlcal Machinery and Materials of all kinds. 14.
1‘2450z., equal to an extraction of about 2Jdwt. per ton
Costs of this re-treatment are given at £2169, or almost
precisely 4s. per ton. Profit on the operation is
thus substantial. As the officially-estimated value
of the tailings was stated some two years ago to be
Sjdvvtt, Great Boulder would now seem to have got its
losses down to an insignificant ldwt., probably all
accountable to the cyanide moisture which the slimes
cannot be economically deprived of by any method as yet
in practice.
• * * ,
Golden Pole lode runs north and south, with a
big right-angle bend in it close to the main shaft. The
actual bend itself is claimed to be a crosscourse which
faults the south end of the lode to the eastward
Whether this be true or not, all ore yet
mined occurs in the crosscourse and in that
portion of the lode running north f,om it. On
account of the underlay of the crosscourse bein<>- to
the north, every successive level from the vertical shaft
has farther to go in that direction to get on to the heel
of theore shoot. Since No. 4 level w'as made, all subse-
quent exploration at depth has been by incline winze fol-
lowing down this heel, and by driving thence along the
course of the lode. At No. 6 level the face is now over
30()ft. from the shaft, the last S3ft. showing a 2oz. lode
15in. thick. The Pole s lode seldom exceeds 24in. wide *
but on account of the hardness of the ground, the faces
are always carried of extreme width, stopirig’ from the
incline winze at sth level being officially reported to have
a face 12ft. wide and an average assay-value of Bdwt. As
in the case of many other W.A. mines, profits (real or
prospective) are subordinated to the new standard of
judging a management by the “working cost per ton of
ore crushed,” and not on profits per ton mined and
treated.
Golden Pole’s deal in the Kohinoor South
option, at Meekatharra (W.A.), seems a mixed kind of
affair. Nat Harper, chairman of directors, resigns from the
Pole directorate, and submits an option over the Kohinoor
South, of which he is practically the owner. The agree-
ment made is that Harper shall underwrite the Pole’s
new issue of shares in order to provide the £2O 000 pur-
chase money, that the Pole shall spend a stipulated
amount in developing the property (said to have £40,000
worth of gold in sight), and “Nat’s” further considera-
tion for the sale, besides receiving back his £20,000 is to
be 40,000 fully paid shares. That is to say, the purchase
consideration is to be £20,000 cash and a quarter in-
terest.
• * » *
Ironsides North, formerly one of the leases com-
prised m the huge holding of the Hannan’s Proprietary
is again attracting attention on the goldfield. The pro-
perty was once held by a separate co., promoted bv
Rutter Clarke and Co., of Adelaide, who underwrote it
with £15,000 working capital. Shares were afterwards a
sort of bread-and-butter stock for sharedealers on Ade-
laide ’Change and in the open call at Kalgoorlie. A shoot
of sulphide ore was discovered and a winze sunk through
it; but £oz. ore wasn’t to be looked at in those days when
working a Kalgoorlie mine. When the working capital
was exhausted the co. liquidated, and subsequently the
property became the hope of a party of working pros-
pectors. They have located the old shoot at the shallow
depth of 46ft., and are taking out a crushing from a lead-
ing stope oft. wide and 15ft. high. At this depth the ore
is oxidised, and along the hanging wall a seam 6in in
width shows visible gold in patches.
Hainault possesses a large shoot of low-grade
ore which pitches away south, and at depth will all be in
the South Kalgurli. The Hainault’s crosscuts to this
body have, from the 400 ft. down, been really oblique
drives to get to the ore in the shortest distance. At the
8ol)ft. level the “crosscut” has reached the ore at a dis-
tance of 231 ft., and further work shows the-ore to be 18ft
wide—l2ft. on the footwall averaging 10dwt., and 6ft. on
the hanging wall assaying by borehole test sdwt The
9oUft. level is now being driven, and should strike ore
while still 100 ft. from South Kalgurli boundary.
South Kalgurli is slowly pushing out a crosscut
to cut the Hainault ore body in the Morty lode, which
the diamond drill revealed (so far as a drill ever reveals
anything) at 1500 ft. deep nearly two years ago. Progress
will be much faster when the new air compressor permits
of a greater supply of air-power for drilling in the
development workings. At present the power resources
are fully taxed to keep the stoping drills going and the
cyanide filter plant supplied. South Kalgurli, having
£60,000 cash behind it, and a large ore body of payable
grade in front of it, should enable 8., M. and Co. to
retrieve some of the laurels they have lost during the
last three years, 8., M. and Co. being the South'Kal-
gurli s general managers.
* • *
A change of policy is surely necessary at
victory United, or else shareholders should face the un-
palatable fact that an ounce reef in their property is an
unpayable proposition. Plant continues to return ounce
extractions, aiid directors promised great things when
the new battery became available. They have that
battery now, and continue treating ounce ore, but they
make calls instead of increasing the returns. It is face-
tiously whispered on ’Change that it is too early yet for
Victories to have their “ annual flutter.”
* * * *
From the West, re the Mararoa : The Mararoa’s
manager estimates his ore reserves at 37,000 tons, worth
4bs. per ton. This, however, is a value above that ob-
tained for the last half-year, and very' considerably in
excess of the yield values since the co. took over the mine
about a year ago. The total crushings for the two
periods are : first half-year, 3201 tons for 16960 z. ; second
half-year, 4954 tons for 28380 z., and a further 200 oz. from
cyaniding. In all, therefore, 8155 tons of ore have yielded
Just about £16,000 worth of bullion, and to this result the
ore broken from the 655. shoot in the winze contributed its
quota.
* * * *
, J Hedland-Marble Bar railway is now to be
ennitely begun by the Westralian Government, not, how-
'er, as a development project, but as a relief work for
e unemployed. To this end a big batch of unem-
carpenters is to be shipped up to the
lanri j t 0 l en £then the present wharf at Port Hed-
an“ erec t storage buildings for the construction
•m i? 1 a ?~ ,nater ’ a *—when it arrives. The fact is that,
. tnoughthe Moore Ministry put through last session an
presswe policy of public works, it can’t pay for them,
itu it can float a trifle of a loan somewhere it is living
‘ avings Bank money', which, as it guarantees three
f interest thereon, it is constitutionally entitled to
est. savings Bank’s deposits exceed 2J millions ; credit
hi, .u Ce r , ln A " Hank is £400,000. The rest is “ invested ”
°y the Government.
* # *
A e P utat * on . composed of M’s.L.A., repre-
P,). e chief Queensland mining centres, waited on
r.t,,™!!? Kidston the other day with a request (1) that
a he put on next year’s Estimates for the
p °PfP e nt of mining, and (2) that a Mining on Private
ib» p. le *”i'l introduced this session. The amount on
brid 1907-8 for “ prospecting, roads and
£i 'i ivin’ a ccp-sinking and mining machinery advances” was
,uw ’ which £5,082 was spent. It was claimed that
Queensland had done very little compared with other
states towards helping the prospector. Various methods
U P the m . ol ; e y were suggested by the deputation,
including deep sinking and coal prospecting. Kidston
professed to be m sympathy, but referred to the difficulty
of allotting the suggested grant. His plan of raising the
money will probably be to put a royalty on production
and apply the amount to the development of the industry,
been met°t l ° calied for until working expenses have
* *
Peak Downs (Central Queensland) is up for
reconstruction. It is proposed to issue to present
holders pro rata 130,000 shares at 7s. 6d., upon which
~s ; ~£ e L?' la . re IS , alread Y credited. It will probably
take £17,000 to clear the present co. of debt and
start the new concern ; so, after the brokers have been
paid, the co. will probably have less than £15,000 to carry
out the development work which Rands recommended,
lhe new co., however, will have 70,000 shares in reserve,
which at a later date may be helpful. The co.’s office has
been shifted to the premises controlled by T. M Hali-
but the directors are the same old lot.
* * * *
The Great Fitzroy (Central Queensland) is up
against a snag. The Bulletin a few months ago said
itzroy would be wise to wait until after the wet season
ere starting smelting. Despite the fact that copper is a
/i u w 111 P rlce i that the railway has not been started,
and that the wet season has not been negotiated, Great
1 itzroy simply could not wait. It must either smelt or
burst, and now it looks as if it has done both. No re-
turns have been published yet—all that has been officially
announced is that on 14th March the furnace closed
down. Owing to the wet, fuel and fluxes could not be
caited, and the little stbck at the mine was soon ex-
hausted. To Close down was therefore easy. Perhaps
8., M. and Co. were pleased that it was so easy. The first
fortnight’s furnace work indicated that the ore put
through assayed about 5 per cent, copper and 4dwt. gold
per ton. The recovery was close on 4.5 per cent copper
and 4dwt. gold per ton, in a matte which ran about 30
per cent, copper. Without a doubt Fitzroy is putting
through its best stuff at the start, and even then little or
no profit can be shown. On the above recovery Mt.
Morgan would make a nice profit, whereas Fitzroy is
doubtless making a loss ; but then for every 300 tons of
ore that Fitzroy’s plant can deal with, Mt. Morgan will
put through 3500 tons—a totally different proposition.
Great Fitzroy must wait for its railway. Until then
smelting operations will result in nothing but trouble and
loss.
Kidston has brought down a batch of Queens-
land railway proposals, and the Assembly wasted no time in
passing them. The line of most importance to the mining
industry is the Boyne Valley, which will serve Many Beaks
the basic copper property which will presently render it
unnecessary for Mt. Morgan to use barren ironstone in its
furnaces. Many Peaks is about 50 miles south of Glad-
stone, and is being well opened up by the Mt. Morgan
crowd. The other line of importance is also in the Cen-
tral district, and will serve Great Fitzroy, which requires
rail connection with Rockhampton before it can hope to
make a name for itself. New Zealand Gully to Yeppoon is
the route.
At the Mitchell River antimony mine (N.Q.)
there is not a great deal doing. The plant is going slowly
forward over bad roads, but without any system, and the
construction is always being hung up waiting for necessary
parts of machinery. Latest reports have been more satis-
factory, and that, and the good financial position dis-
closed, have between them firmed the shares a trifle.
They were very much over-applied for, but the long wait
tired people, and, 10s. paid, they are now worth only
about 3s. 6d., in spite of the recent market improvement.
The proposal of Thos. Gibb to run Mount Can-
nindah with copper at £55 per ton has fizzled out. A
circular issued from the office states that the offer has
been withdrawn—presumably owing to the opposition of
the Corries and Philp, who hold large proxies. The ad-
journed meeting of shareholders convened to consider the
scheme filled in the time by passing a resolution as fol-
lows “In view of the present position of the co.’s
affairs, the directors are hereby requested, prior to enter-
ing into any sale, lease, or contract, affecting the property
or undertaking, either by reconstruction or otherwise, to
convene a general meeting, with the object of obtaining
approval or otherwise, notwithstanding anything in the
articles of association.”
■K * * *
Mt. Hector is one of the few Queensland copper
shows which are not in a state of suspended animation
owing- to a slump in the metal. This is, of course, mainly
due to the presence of fair quantities of precious metals
in its ores. Taking the returns from the last half-dozen
taps of the furnace, the gold and silver values per ton of
copper are respectively 3'soz. and 260 z., equal to £l6 10s.
This gives the copper a gross value of about £75 per ton
at present prices. The management is thus able to pay
expenses, including development, and so far the results in
this direction have been distinctly encouraging. Mt.
Hector is fortunate in having careful manage-
ment on the mine, and differs from other shows
of the group by the absence of splash. The reconstruc-
tion scheme recently brought off should enable the co. to
keep its end up pending the completion of the Boyne
Valley railway, and those interested are very sanguine as
to the future.
* * * *
News from Charters Towers is a trifle more
inspiriting. No. 7 level has taken Mills’ United hanging
wall or branch reef 80 odd feet into the New Brilliant
Freehold ground. The reef is about 3ft. wide and has a
tendency to become larger. No. 13 of Mills’ United is in
473 ft. east, with 2Jft. of light mineral stone in the
face. Some of the other levels are further advanced on
good stone, so it is thought No. 13 will strike better stone
before long. New Victoria and Caledonia is doing much
better on the Just-in-Time reef; it is raising 100 tons a fort-
night, and has picked up the shoot of stone in No. 3 level
—payable though patchy. This is one of the shows that are
watching developments in the Queen Cross, which is
sinking to test a formation at 1950 ft. Kelly’s have an
underlie down below the 1316 ft. level, and scrip-dealing
has started again on this old market horse. Prospects
are certainly better ; but dead work is not sufficiently
advanced to enable the output to be increased. Brilliant
Block is doing some prospecting on a footwall vein in
No. 17 west level. It has some hope of getting an ex-
tension of the branch reef from Mills’ United, which has
been proved across the boundary. Charters Towers
would like a long shot of that kind to come off.
* * * •
Mt. Morgan’s output of copper and gold for
February was valued at £74,300 (exclusive of freight,
refining and realisation) ; the January yield was £62,100.
The difference (£12,200) is not enough, considering that
4859 tons more copper ore was smelted. Had it not been
for the improved gold extraction of nearly 3dwt. per ton,
the month’s yield would have been even more disappoint-
ing. No doubt the big ore reserves (which, by the way,
are somewhat uncertain as to quality) fire the punter’s
imagination. People are also told at times that Mt. Morgan
can lay down refined copper at next to nothing, on
account of the gold contents. As a matter of fact,
Mount Morgan would exceed present expectations by
producing 10,000 tons of blister copper a year. Valuing
the latter sorhewhat liberally at £lOO per ton, or
£1,000,000 altogether, there is a production of £1 for
every share in the co. The most optimistic could hardly
expect a dividend of more than 7s. per share. The profit
from gold ores will add to this, although the January
average of slightly over sdwt. from 24,526 tons could not
have given much profit.
* * * *
Gympie (Queensland) only paid one little div.
(the North Smithfield’s £800) for February ; still the field
isn’t; quite so down in the mouth as it was immediately
after the partial shut-down of the Scottish. In par-
ticular, the East Oriental and Glanmire is showing up
better, and shares, which were worth about tuppence a
bushel at the beginning of the year, are up to 3s. apiece,
the change has occurred at the 2154 ft., where the flat
formation has been followed on to a big body of poor but
still gold-bearing and promising stone; and Columbia
extended has improved prospects to put still further
neart into the field.
* * * *
Progress at Cloncurry (Q.) lately has been slow,
partly owing to railway interruptions and the difficulty
of getting material. At the mines recent results have in
general been only fairly satisfactory. Things looked
better a few weeks ago when the Great Australian found
what were described as unaltered sulphides. This was in
boring at an angle of 70 degrees. Prom data collected it is
assumed that the lode below the 200 ft. carries a footwall
and a han*>ing-wall seam, together 20ft. wide, averasrinif,
it is estimated, 7 per cent.; but on the published figures
7 per cent, looks doubtful. In the 200 ft. workings the
body is neither as big nor as rich as was at first reported ;
but a width of sft. 6in. and an average of 15 per cent
are not to be scoffed at.
* * * *
Catherine Reef United was a windfall to Ben-
digo spec-sellers and a snare to outside investors. The
11,044 loads treated for 33950 z. during six months only
mean an average of sdwt. 20gr. At present the best gold
is coming from close to the slide south at 2100 ft. This
fact explains a lot, for when gold makes close to a fault
at Bendigo it generally tapers off pretty sharply. The
C °'n h u 8 SUch a big share re & ister tha t a lot of sdwt. dirt
will have to go to the battery to accumulate enough pro-
fits to pay divs.
* * * *
Turbulent times over West Berry Consols,
Creswick. ‘Little” Roberts, the director, was first
jumped off the Board, after years of good ser-
vice. Now “ Ventilation ” Squires has concluded
Ins years ,of management. Creswick is' howling
and miners don’t feel easy. They think Squires
ought to know best how to get the penned-up water
from the old workings into the new shaft. There
is a lot of talk about the risk of another Australasian
disaster at the mine. Surely if the mine plans are reliable
and care is taken, the risk should not be big. West Berry
has long been a poverty-stricken show, and this row won’t
help it.
* * * *
“J anor ” : In Vic. mining districts Bent's
idiotic and panic-begotten Gold Stealing Bill is loudly
and universally cursed. The curse'does not emanate from
gold stealers, either, hut from business men and alluvial
miners. To the last-named it. is a serious matter, especi-
ally in Gippsland. In that remote and mountainous
district the miners are scattered over a wide area, mostly
in communities too small to support a local store. Thus
supplies are packed weekly from the nearest township,
anything up to 30 miles distant, and the gold is taken in
exchange. The G. S. Bill stops that, for the gold must
be sold at the buyer’s place of business, before 5 p.m., and
the seller must enter at the front door ! This is about
the limit in harassing legislation. Imagine a man walk-
ing 60 miles every week to sell a few ’weights—sdwt. is a
good week these times. The average earnings of the men
won’t stand it. The new Act came into force on the Ist
inst., but for a fortnight after that no licenses had been
issued, as far as I know. Licenses under the old Act ex-
pired at the end of last year, so that gold-buyers have
been carrying on business since then unlicensed. A large
number, however, have absolutely refused to buy since
the Ist inst., at loss to themselves and great inconvenience to
miners. Thepresent Actrestrictsthe numberof licensesand
raises the fees, and if strictly enforced will deprive many
remote mining camps of their gold buyers. And, to
make it more aggravating, this legislation is all futile
tom my rot so far as prevention of gold thefts is concerned.
The gold thief has his wages and can bide his time and
sell at his leisure with ease and safety, and no such legisla-
tion as this can prevent him doing so. A lot of the fudge
written and talked about gold stealing is really in the
interests of those incompetent mining directors who
manage a very large proportion of Victorian mines. The
gold thief is a scapegoat for them—the bogey they trot
out to cover their blunders, swindles and lack of know-
ledge. Gold stealing by miners is largely a thing of the
past. With the average yield of all quartz crushed down
to somewhere about 6dwt. per ton, the miner has a poor
chance of sighting specimens—the specimen mines in
Victoria can be counted on the fingers. As most of the
others are low-grade propositions, in which miners seldom
see the color, whatever leakage there is in mine returns is
mosily a battery matter, and could be stopped by proper
supervision. More than that, the £3 and £4 per week
manager wants dropping, and a better-paid inan should
be put in his place.
* • • *
General-manager Hancock, of the Wallaroo and
Moonta, says the production at Wallaroo this year will
go back to that of 1903 or a little less, while that from
Moonta will be “ much smaller than during the last two
years.” According to present indications, the 1908 out-
put from the two properties will, he judges, be about
5000 tons. The total output from the furnaces last year
was 8627 tons ; but that included the product from pur-
chased ore and matte. Apparently the mines themselves
have returned the following metal (in tons) for the past
few years (as 1903 is mentioned by Mr. Hancock, that is
included); —
1903. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Wallaroo .. .. 3205 3283 3849 4419
Moonta .. .. 1772 1187 1605 1804
Cementation works 729 712 812 674
Total .. .. 5706 6182 6266 6897
In 1904 the output was smaller than in any of these four
years. The cementation (or leaching) works don’t bulk
very large in the foregoing comparison ; yet of the gross
profit of £49,83£ last year, they contributed £32,987.
Add £4076, the profit on the sulphuric acid works (this
department’s product is sold to the Wallaroo Phosphate
Co.), £1329 profit on the sale of some land, and whatever
profit was made out of the custom smelting, and there is
only £lO,OOO or so—perhaps less—to represent the year’s
profit on the mining and smelting of the co.’s own ore.
But, as pointed out last week, there must have been an
over-valuation of the big stocks on hand as at Dec. 31,
1906, which would have the effect of inflating the profits
for that year at the expense of those for 1907. Otherwise,
seeing that standard copper averaged as much as £B7
Is. Sd. last year, the outlook would be ghastly. As it is,
it is certainly sick.
It can’t be done with absolute accuracy, but
still we ought to be able to get very close to what was the
actual cost of producing copper last year from the co.’s
ores. The working expenses (which don’t include office
expenses, depreciation, or charges on metals) were last
year £497,852. From that deduct £19,757, returning
charges on purchased ore. (Probably the actual cost was
a good deal less.) Balance, £478,095. The copper pro-
duced, apart from cementation, whose accounts are kept
separate, was 6223 tons; and that works out at
£76 16s. 6d. per ton. On the same basis the previous
year’s costs run out at £7l ss. Id. ; and it is
admitted that for that year the total costs (office ex-
penses, interest, etc., included) were £72 11s. -It
seems fair to assume, then, that £76 16s. 6d. per ton of
fine copper represents the very lowest figure for working
expenses last year ; and probably about 255. has to be
added to cover other expenditure and incidentals.
Together that would be equal to, say, £7B per ton of fine
copper, or about £73 15s. or £74 for standard copper.
This, of course, excludes the profitable cementation busi-
ness—it covers just the new ore mined. No wonder the
directors, “ being of opinion that the general manager
should be given an opportunity to acquaint himself with
the latest improvements in mining and smelting practice,
are sending him to America and Europe for that purpose.”
Unfortunately they can’t send the mines, to see whether
a change of air would do them any good.
• * • *
From a good judge of what’s what in mining:
Hercules (Tas.) has a big name and a small output. To
turn over only 8627 tons of ore during six months points
either to restricted ideas as to the way a Claim should be
worked, or to misfortune. At the Hercules the two
factors apply. Danger in the stopes has forced the in-
spectors to close the zinc-blende section. The Rilver-
lead output alone cannot make a decent total. Yet
100,000 tons of sulphides are in sight, and 20,000 tons are
available for stoping. Why let this big lot stop in the
mine to the loss of interest and the missing of the market ?
Trouble through local creeps would be avoided if the ore
was beaten out on a decent scale. To do this the show
needs to be reorganised, which means extra capital. The
co.’s balance-sheet shows a fixed deposit of £5OOO, and a
current account credit of £1221, while ore on hand is
worth £2OOB. There is thus available a nice bit of cash,
if shareholders would do the heroic. But Tasmanian
mining folk have too much of the tortoise in them, ex-
cept in the matter of racing for divs. whenever there’s
a trifle in the till. Consequently the Hercules is in
danger of remaining a weakling.
Blue Tier (Tas.) crushed 35 tons for 9cwt„ tin
oxide. This is the claim Alt. Lyell spent £lO,OOO in pros-
pecting, and then discarded. Promoters didn’t seem to
think Lyell people knew much about tin, wiiatever they
might know about copper; so they have been sampling 1
on their own. They may be satisfied now !


DRINK
Charles Heidsieck
A VINTAGE 1900
\ Champagne.
THE VERY BEST.
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg:, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Grey Hair is not always a badge of honor, it may be
a symbol of neglect. .Nature never intended that woman’s
hair should he faded and scanty. In the field of beauty
men don’t count, and in their case a bald head may be
an ornament. But the woman who loses her hair ioses
a precious part of her beauty, and so goes handicapped.
Makeshifts are unsatisfactory. Far better to have
an abundance of one’s own hair in perfect condition. A
few years ago that was not easy. But, sigh no more,
ladies ! Dr. Lykuski’s Hair Tonic stimulates, preserves,
and permantly beautifies the hair. It can be used with
confidence, there is no disappointment, where there is no
failure, 3s. 6d. Pneumatic Combs, feed the roots of the
hair with the Tonic, 2s. 6d. each. Special Herbs for
washing the hair, are delightfully pleasant to use, and
their effect is singularly' wholesome and strengthening. Is.
a packet. Leading chemists, or direct from H. Rubinstein
and Co., Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street,
Sydney ; 274 Collins Street, Melbourne ; and 9 Brandon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.* [2
SWOLLEN, TWISTED JOINTS FKOM
RHEUMATISM.
Sydney Woman Helplessly Crippled for two
Y ears.
Couldn’t do her Houseavork—Couldn’t Feed
Herself ; Became a Complete Wreck ;
Cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“Eight years ago I suffered dreadfully from
rheumatism,” said Mrs. Jessie Stephen, Harris
Street, Botany, Sydney. “I had rheumatic fever
twice; the joints were dreadfully affected,
especially those of my hands, wrists and feet.
The pain I shall never forget. My fingers and
toes were twisted all shapes, and the swelling in
my wrists and ankles was enormous. To feed
myself was utterly impossible, and housework was
quite out of the question. For two years I was
helpless, especially when in bed, when I had to
be lifted from my bed—l could not put my foot to
the floor. The violent pains were accompanied
by twitchings of the nerves, it was impossible for
me to keep still. At times the pains were so bad
in my head that I was afraid I would lose my eye-
sight. I suffered like this for years until my con-
stitution was wrecked with pain. I got tired of
the doctor’s treatment because I received no relief.
Then my friends persuaded me to give Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a trial. I did so with
splendid results. I kept on till I reached eleven
boxes. I found then I could work my fingers a
little, I could raise my hand to my mouth and
drink a cup of tea with ease. Ino longer dreaded
putting my feet to the ground. After this I made
rapid progress. I still went on taking Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills until I had reached fifteen
boxes, when I could get about my house and do
anything that wanted doing without pain or in-
convenience. I strongly recommend Dr. Williams
Pink Pills to all who suffer as I did.”
Rheumatism is caused by acid in the blood.
You can’t rub out rheumatism —it must be cured
through the blood. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
a blood-making medicine, that’s why they cure
rheumatism. That’s why they cure headaches,
sideaches, backaches, kidney trouble, lumbago,
sciatica, neuralgia, nervousness, general weakness,
and anaemia. All these ailments come from bad
blood—and Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually make
new blood. But you must insist on getting the
same kind as cured Mrs. Stephen. Sold by
retailers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d.,
post free. Write for hints on diet.*
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the Klngr and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE
FACILE PRINCEPS
99
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 24, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
Australia will achieve in its new Excellencies,
the Dudley Earl and his lady, about the most
seemly-looking pair of tall, dark, graceful aris-
tocrats the United Kingdom boasts. The
earl is one of the “Ward brothers,” a fasci-
nating band, possessing the looks and many
of the attributes, of Ouida guardsmen.
“Reggie” Ward (now dead), who went Boer-
slaying with the Composite Household Cavalry
Regiment (he was in the “Blues”), and there
made himself extremely popular with Austra-
lians, twice narrowly missed winning the Liver-
pool Grand National Steeplechase—albeit 6ft. in
height—on his own horse, Cathal, and otherwise
fulfilled “Under Two Flags” requirements.
John Ward, another brother and an inseparable
companion of Ed. VII., is of the same type.
William, the new Governor-General, is a famous
rider and shot; and the accusation of possessing
a certain degree of intelligence has been levelled
at him.
Our Governor-General elect was in Sydney
some seventeen years ago, and is fondly
remembered by a lot of then girls, who are now
mammas, as “a delightful boy.” Lady Dudley is
about the only British countess who is known to
have served in a shop for her living. Her pretty
sister, now Lady Troubridge, also did her share of
the serving until betitled friends took them away
from their stiddy jobs, and finally settled them
matrimonially. Lady Dudley’s earlier experi-
ences have been of great value to her in grappling
with the deep intricacies of bazaar work.
It has come before they have ! This apparently
idiotic comment is wrung from me by the fact that
to-day, on a ferry, a lady speaking in a high,
carrying voice, remarked to her friends, “Well,
I’ll be in the fashion when the Dudleys come here
—won’t I ? Lady Dudley has seven children, and
so have I, two of them twins—just the same as she
has.” Every listener seemed to draw deep breaths
of surprise and admiration. The Dudley twins, it
may be remarked, arrived barely two months ago,
so the Sydney-sider must have kept an intensely
watchful eye on high-life domestic happenings in
London. The other day I found an old Argus,
in which its London correspondent mentioned the
sensation caused by the then just-announced en-
gagement of young Dudley to Miss Gurney. She
was the daughter of a banker of some note
who failed with considerable crash, but quite
honorably. His wife went in for millinery and
her daughter helped her at the artistic job. The
just-widowed Georgina Lady Dudley used to have
Miss Rachel Gurney to stay with her. “ She was
beautiful,” remarks the correspondent, “ and sang
like Nordica,”so what could her hostess expect
but that Dudley junior would fall in love with the
guest? I used to hear the late Julian Thomas
(“The Vagabond”) talk humorously about the
present Earl’s father. He (the defunct potentate)
was out here on a private visit to some Governor
years ago. He was a little dotty on some unim-
portant matters. For instance, he was under the
delusion that he had a live squirrel in his stomach,
and the clubmen at the club he sometimes honored
got quite used to his sudden order to a waiter to
“ get me a few nuts for mv squirrel.” The squirrel-
Earl’s wife, the present dowager, was one of the
famous Moncreiffe trio of sisters —noted beauties
of the gay time when Edward VII. was Prince of
Wales and young and going strong.
By some whim of Fate, fair Mosman—the
Harbor suburb where the homes of the Essentially
Respectable uprear themselves to the sky in great
numbers—has been marked out as the abiding
place of the more-than-usually-frisky lady of the
community. One naughty dame of yester-year,
who couldn’t number her co-re’s on the fingers of
her two pretty hands (they boiled-down ulti-
mately for public consumption to one lonely
Lothario) did most of her revelling in Mos-
man. A while ago another respondent occurred
hailing from the same (mostly) sainted spot. Her
original co-re tally numbered 36. This was nar-
rowed after infinite argument, explanation, and
apology, to 16. In the end (lest Mr. Justice
Simpson and the public conscience, which he so
well typifies, might be wounded), the conventions
were respected, and one solitary victim was
protestingly immolated on the altar of Costs. A
small and unregenerate section of Mosman society
smiles and makes flippant remarks about these
unusual happenings; but the remainder of the
inhabitants preen their feathers agitatedly and
demand, in hollow tones, what the place is
coming to.
Lord William Nevill is free once more, having
served ten months of the twelve to which he was
sentenced for his latest indiscretion. He was as
exemplary in the r6le of prisoner as he has always
been (barring his little financial confusions) in
that of husband, and a devoted wife bore him
away in a motor from an almost tearfullv-regretful
band of gaol officials. At Wormwood Scrubs,
where Lord “ Bill ” is well and favorably known,
it is conceded freely that the Nevill family’s occa-
sional temporary loss is Wormwood’s gain.
Kubelik and his Countess seem near at hand,
now that Manager Buckingham is in Sydney
booking the great fiddler’s tour. The Kubelik
twins will not come to help advertise the tour,
though they are genuine twins, and might do good
service.
About half-a-ton of illustrated Kubelik litera-
ture to hand shows K. to be rather like our own
Laurence Godfrey Smith, only K.’s hair is slab
and hanging, like curates who have committed
suicide, instead of uprightly curly. Countess
Kubelik, who was Countess Czaky, and a widow,
when she fell a victim to K.’s bow and fiddle, is a
beautiful young woman. The twin girls are
shown with little fiddles in their chubby hands ;
the two younger babies, also girls, are at
about the two-tooth period. The great fiddler’s
main home, Castle Bychor, is in Bohemia,
and looks just the kind of be-towered and be-
foliaged humpy to send a writing person wild with
desire to possess one like it. On this estate
Kubelik spends his leisure shooting rabbits.
Australia will gladly lend K. a rabbit or two to
go on with if he is still hungering after slaughter.
Miss Harrie Ireland has had a lot of jewels
stolen from her dressing-room. This is not a gag.
It is a fact. “If it were a gag,” says Harrie tear-
fully, “I’d invent something original.”
A girl singer with the curiously-attractive name
of Tibbie Tighe, has left Sydney, but not for
Europe and further study. As elocutionist Leston
phrases it, “She has gone into two States —Matri-
mony and South Australia.” Miss Tibbie, who
was a Mrs. Christian pupil, was married on St.
Patrick’s Day to Mr. Sydney Jackman, an archi-
tect practising in Adelaide.
Mrs. Emily Spada’s merry face and curly hair
shine from behind the plate glass of the music
warehouse windows these autumn days. She
made her first appearance as a solo vocalist with
our recent visitor, the famous Carreno. Mrs.
Emily is an American, and was a noted singer in
a Fifth (or whatever number the millionairest
Avenue bears) Avenue church. She first “ took ”
on these shores as a member of the Belle Cole co.
Her consort, Philip Newbury, divides his time,
until their concerts begin, between the surf at
Bondi and the Waverley Bowling Club. He surfs
well and bowls similarly.
A beautiful collection of gowns and hats is being
exhibited by Mrs. Ethel at the Federal Chambers
in King-street. The gowns were designed and
executed by Mrs. Jean Walker, of Brisbane. The
princess and empire frocks, and frocks combining
quantities of both, tinselled, embroidered and
jewelled, or “ elegantly simple,” prove their
creator to be skilled and up to the season after
next in style.
Baron Alex. Maclay, eldest son of Mrs. “ Milk-
ho ” Maclay (no one can pronounce the fearsome
first name, but, when essayed, it sounds like
“Milk-oh”) is announced as engaged to Miss
Kathleen Jamieson, daughter of a decased squat-
ter of the Rylstone district. The bridegroom-
elect and his brother have lately come into an
extra large lot of what the streets were paved
with in Revelation.
Miss Phyllis Dangar, a Sydney squatterette, is
announced as engaged to a Major Arthur Neville
Lovell, of the 29th Lancers. The bride-elect is a
daughter of Mr. A. A. Dangar, of Baroona.
Similar double initials seem to run in the Dangar
clan. There’s an O. O. Dangar as well as an
A. A. and aC. C. Dangar. Last is a brass-bound
warrior in Simla, or some other Indian place of
unrest.
From a nice girl (she left it sticking in the key-
hole of my office lair) : “This is just in case I
don’t see you. Thought you would like to know
of another engagement (engagements, like fami-
lies, supplied daily). This time it is a cricketing
or >e. — the Rev. Something Waddy to Miss
Christie, Matron of the Western Suburbs Cottage
Hospital. He is a brother of the Rev. Percy
Stacy Waddy, who is the husband of the winner
of the Bush Story Competition of the Women’s
Exhibition (something like the ‘ house that Jack
built’ isn’t it?)”.
All Sydney is sorry for itself at the death
of Miss Woolley. The frail, bent, sweet-faced
little woman was part of Sydney’s musical,
charitable and society life. The vice-regal houses
were always open to her, and Lady Mary Lygon
and she became fast friends. In conjunction with
her great chum, the late Miss Pedle.y, she founded
the St. Cecilia choir, beloved of frilly maidens.
From its inauguration Miss Woolley had been on
the committee of the Amateur Orchestral Society,
and she was a listener at Hazon’s last concert.
That stunning-like Miss “Joe” O’Keefe, who
was dress-designer at a big Sydney establishment,
and who was sent to Europe by the firm to round
off her artistic education, has been sighted at
Monte Carlo trying to recover from the heavy
cold with which London always sandbags the
Australian visitor. A little Sydney pianiste
writes this fluff : “Yesterday at lunch'at ‘Ciros,’
Mrs. Rupert Clarke was sitting at one table and
Miss O’K. at another, and, Curiously enough, they
were wearing the same type of hat—bright cerise
and black. The Melbournian’s had green wings, the
Svdnevsider’s cerise tulle and high black ospreys.
The women here are the most beautifully dressed
in the whole of Europe. A lot of smart coats and
skirts are cream and striped suiting ; the hats are
covered with lovely feathers—the smartest have
upsta-nding ospreys. Saw Elsie Moore here look-
ing like a pretty fashion plate. Duly congratu-
lated her on her engagement to the nice American.
Mrs. Jim Allison and Mrs. Percy Rundle I hap-
pened on in London, and they looked a credit to
Australia.”
From Mrs. E. C. Roebuck, of Weandangie,
West Queensland, Mrs. Izett wishes to acknow-
ledge receipt of £1 (collected by the lady) for the
Child Study Association charity.
From a correspondent in Perth (Westralia): —
The Federal spirit was exhibited in Perth on 3rd March
when an inter-State wedding was celebrated. Miss Olive
Cairnes (Melbourne) was married to Mr. Herbert Delohery
(Sydney). The best man was Mr. H. Price (Queensland),
and the bridesmaids were Nurses Ellis and Jeffery, who
hail from yictoria and South Australia. The bride was
given away by Dr. Stewart (Westralia), leaving only Tas-
mania without a representative.
The wedding was decked out with unusual trimmings
through the presence of some 30 or 40 nurses from the
Perth Hospital, where Miss Oairnes had been a wingless
angel. The bride is one of the two handsome daughters
of Elliot M. Cairnes, of Melbourne, and the ’groom is the
third son of Cornelius Delohery, of Sydney. He manages
the Bank of Australasia at Bunbury, and keeps his eye on
the wild and infuriated overdraft.
A young sculptor girl is to be sent from Sydney
to London for a three years’course of study at
South Kensington Art School. This sounds like
a pleasing change after so much chronic export
of the Girl With The Voice and the Girl
Who Paws Ivory, and the man with the Bat
and Ball. Miss Fairlie Cunninghame is the at-
tractive name of the pretty young clay-moulder.
She is an uncommon-looking young party, with
dark hair and eyes and a magnolia complexion.
One of her studies has for its original a Sydney
fireman, and Miss Cunninghame shows imagina-
tion in making him look like a Roman centurion.
yet not losing the likeness of the honest stipend-
iary extinguisher. A public meeting, chaired by
Dr. James Graham, has decided to raise funds to
provide for the girl’s flight. Miss Ethel Stephen
is hon. treasurer of the fund.
Mrs. Barlow, one of the honorary secs, of the
St. Vincent’s Ball committee, writes that the
promise of the ball is of the brightest. l’he
Northcotes have undertaken to be present if no
boulder of mischance blocks their arrangements.
The Rawsons, Darleys, and the new people o’
war, the Poores, are promisees without qualifica-
tion. Sets are: Marble, by Mrs. T. H. Kelly ;
Silver, Mrs. R. G. Watkins; Coal, Mrs. J.
Hughes; Gold, Mrs. Peyton; Wool, Mesdames
J. and G. Mullins; Butter, Mesdames Toohey
and Kenna; Fruit Industry, Mrs. Napier;
Australian Naval Defence, Mrs. Brooks, of St.
Kilda, Melbourne. A final set is in course of
being hatched, and is expected to come out of its
shell if it isn’t sat on too hard. The feeding,
music-making, and details will be generously
treated.
The Allen Taylors and son Forster leave for
Europe in the Himalaya on April 8.
Miss Eva Champion, the Maoriland contralto,
whose musical studies with Mrs. Quesnel are
being financed by the Girls’ Realm Guild, leaves
here for foreign training early in May. Various
means of augmenting the youngster’s banked
money, and the details of the concert to be given
her, were discussed by the committee of the Girls’
Guild. Instead of giving little individual presents,
her friends and sympathiser are asked to con-
tribute a silver coin from sixpence upwards.
This plan is very sane—much saner than giving
her a velvet duck penwiper and 365 cabin pin-
cushions and a box of crackers. For the Outfit
Fund, Miss Elsie Scrutton, of Croydon-street,
Petersham, will act as honorary treasurer.
The Spencer Bruntons, who got back by the
Asturias, have taken “Elystan,” Mrs. James
Marks’s house at Edgecliff. In coming through
New York Mrs. Brunton saw her nieces, Mrs.
Waldron and Mrs. Keegan, best remembered by
Sydney-siders (who remember their
quite a week- or so) as the two handsome King
girls. She reports them as being as happy as birds —
“ Birds that get sweet rain at noon,” as the poet
has it.
The going away of that extremely ugly-looking
steamer, the Asturias, drew as big a crowd as an
international cricket or football match. Some
3000 women and 1000 men evidently had no
morning’s work to do, for by 10.30 about that
number of people were wedged in the goods shed
and packed the vessel’s length along the wharf.
So many were the posies hanging over the railing
of each tier of the vessel, that he (as the new liner
is ugly don’t let us call it she) appeared to be
decorated as for a floral festival. The explana-
tion was that each passenger carried flowers.
The (Dr.) John Hays had a cabin de luxe, with
sitting-room and bath-room and real lace bed-
spreads. A Honiton lace top-covering must be a
solid comfort to you if you are a bad sailor. The
Villeneuve Smiths and Colin Stephens and Dr.
Newmarch were amongst the 900 who left this
port, with or without real lace bedspreads. But
a number of this number will be shed at divers
interstate ports, and at Adelaide, report says, the
liner will take on 1200 humans.
A volume that will absorb the female person
desirous of regaining or keeping her looks is Dr.
Philip Muskett’s just-published work on “ The
Attainment of Health by Means of Diet.” The
writer holds that the progenitor of most of the
ills we are heir to lives on the dinner table.
He gives exhaustive menus for the frustrating
of this fiend. The meals that should be
taken in every possible complaint, from a
bad complexion to neuralgia, and from obesity
to chronic gout, are indicated; and reasons are
given for the same. It is all most convincing and
cheering. A measure of self-restraint, and it .
would seem that the very plainest may become
passable. One conceives, after reading this book,
that the Helens and Cleopatras of this world were
necessarily diet-experts to a woman.
Relatives of a Sydney girl who went hence as
the bride of a United Stater about a year ago,
would greatly like to have a heart-to-heart talk
(with a gun at hand) with the individual who
started the slander of a previous wife and some
children meeting the honeymoon pair in New
York. Like the stars, the slander never had any
visible means of support. In short, it was, in the
language of poesy, the airy fabric of a dream;
but people who dream like that should be
wakened with an axe.
Wandering about off the rail and road tracks of
the North Shore line recently, I came upon a
deserted orchard. A LotuS-and-Lethe air hung
over the place. It must once have been as fair as
a garden of the Lord, but now every tree was the
host of fruit pests. Slug-like or winged things
lived in or on the twisted fruit. If the garden
god had appeared he would certainly have had
mice, grasshoppers, and small birds in his
hair and beard. I was trying to find a
peach with one good bite in it when
something hit me with considerable force
six inches above my tired feet. Looking down, I
beheld what Holy Writ calls “an he-goat.” But
he was a quite young and a little one. So I kicked
him. But the comical way in which he wagged
his baby beard at me, and charged again with
lowered head and little horns, was irresistible,
so I cuddled him instead, and gave him as
much of the fly-infested fruit as he wanted.
He had big amber eyes and the humorous
mouth of all young goats. Anyhow, that
deserted garden was just what I wanted for a
camping place, so L went for information, followed
by “an he-goat,” to the nearest shanty. The man
in it—regarded as a source of intelligence, he
didn’t seem much above the things that lived in
the peaches—told me that the property belonged
to a lord that lived in “ Engle-land.” A “ lord,” I
echoed reverentially. “He was a guv’ner here
wonst, but I forget his name.” “Do you know if
this little goat belongs to him also?” I asked.
He looked long and speculatively at the kid, as if
in doubt of its being a goat or a bird, then said :
“I dunno ! Where’d you strike it ? ” “It struck
me first—in the orchard.” He had another pro-
longed stare at Little Billy, then calmly turned and
went within his shanty and shut the door.
If the foregoing should meet the eye of the
noble owner of the infected but picturesque
orchard, lying at the end of a lizard track between
Wahroonga and Turramurra, he is hereby offered
a rental of three-and-six a week for the beautiful
but pested place. But Little Billy must come with
the property. As a fact he did come with me as
far as the station, but the ticket-collector wouldn’t
let him through the gate.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane:—
The floods have subsided, and to a minor extent th
snake yarns and frog narratives connected therewith
and people are beginning to go to tea fights as of vore
The representatives of the seventh Edward made a real
day of it on Tuesday in honor of St. Patrick. They went to
a damp race meeting, and sat in the enclosure on damn
chairs. Only Mr. and Mrs. Ramsay were commanded to
bask in the vice-regal light. The uncertain weather not
withstanding, the meeting was a light-hearted"
one. I even saw’ the naval commandant hanc
a brand new mackintosh upon the rails, while
he talked to two pretty ladies in blue veilings. And the
’tosh was there when he returned. Truly our honesty is
beyond question. The early portion of Friday was
devoted to the Hibernian procesh. It proceeded in the
usual green haze, with a brand new banner of most in.
artistic design, the national emblems being planted thereon
like a row of turnips. A weird feature of the affair was
the fact that the Methodist Band led the shivoo, while
several braw pipers of distinctly Scotch descent marched
after the banner. There was also a rich diversity of
feature among the vast green-wearing multitude, and I
saw several loyal Patricks whom, but for their emerald
badges, I would have classed as Syrians and Hebrews. In
the evening those who had escaped sunstroke went to the
Irish Concert, at the Exhibition Hall. The Governor’s
people received a popular ovation on arrival, consequent on
their wearing bits of the national trefoil on their clothes
Mrs. Grace Miller Ward, en route for America and
hubbv, wasted her sweetness on a desert air, gowned in a
confection of shell pink liberty satin, and decked with
many mosquito bites which she dabbed tenderly with
ammonia between melodies.
Saturday saw a regular outburst of frivol—a carnival in
the river and on the Toowong banks, the second leg of
the St. Patrick’s meeting at Ascot (where a big crowd
found the favorites the usual snare and delusion), and a
Rowing Association regatta, with a big roll-up of girlies
and a brass band, and tea in a marquee. The nicest
frocks at the races were those of Mrs. Markwell (a brown
crSpe-de-chine with much chenille embroidery and ivory
lace) and Mrs. A. D. Walsh, the gown of the latter being
a striped blue silk, showing a bold design in blue velvet •
and a bat whereon roses of every shade foregathered.
Ex-Minister for Railways J. D. Campbell turned off
his second daughter on Friday evening. The happy
young man —who gets a real nice girl with an income—
is Mr. Rex Kennedy. “ Donatello,” the Campbell
villa, was decorated from floor to ceiling, and the grounds
were bright with many-colored lights. The marriage
took place in a simple Caledonian way in the drawing-
room (a bower of roses), and Miss Campbell has
never looked handsomer than she did in her
gown of duchesse satin and duchesse lace The
100 or so guests included the whole clan Campbell,
including grandmother Campbell, and many Philps,
Aplins, Gillies, Storys, and Munros.
Say it quietly, lest my creditors get wind of it, but
Queensland is getting rich. Money, for years so tight
that it couldn’t breathe without bursting its clothes,
flows easily once more, and the theatrical managers and
jewellers smile again. On St. Patrick’s night all four
houses of entertainment had “ standing room only,” and
that plucky Australian, Lilian Meyers, broke the record
for a 3, 2 and 1 house at Her Majesty’s, per medium of
“ The Shaughraun.”
Among the crowd on the Asturias, London bound, was
Mrs. Dr. Brock way and her two swimming daughters,
Dorothy and Biddy, who ought to uphold the fish-like
glory of Queensland in the Cold Land.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


M
m
V*
u
□
-ji
sc
raws
%
U
u
J-
.
X
X
*j <-, i~
LIFE IN THE STOCKYARD.
Australia’s Matchless Buckjumping: Exhibition is now being held nightly, at Prince Alfred
Park, Sydney, prior to bucking its way through Australasia with the ’ champions of the
saddle, Waite and Dempsey. Thereafter it will embark for England to astound the
horsey folk with mighty feats of horsemanship.


\
fin.
Remarkable
Ride.
SYDNEY to
MELBOURNE
(577 MILES)
Mr. E. A. Pearson, the
well-known N. S.W.
amateur rider, rode
from Capital to Capital
in the Remarkable
Time of 57 hours 24
minutes, lowering the
previous record by
over 16 hours. Mr.
Pearson rode
Dunlop
Tyres
Which came through
without a puncture or
scratch, again demon-
strating the Speed and
Reliability of these
Wonderful Tyres.
® ® ®
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
ALL STATES and N.Z.
tS>
&
o
OOMETttING- QUITE -NE.W-
IN
jTILLIJMPL
(!»
:^V
/ <.&r
' TM.I
WORLD
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 23, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie.—
The dailies greeted the official announcement
of the Dudley appointment to the Governorship-
General with yards of unrestrained gush. We are
bidden to expect a personage—in fact, a pair of
personages—of superlative beauty, talent and
dignity. Granny Argus goes into ecstasies over
His figure, and slobbers enthusiastically over the
fact that She once ran a shop which didn’t pay,
and prophesies the very deuce of a time for all
the inane little world whose sun shines out of the
pigeon-hole where vice-regal invitation cards are
kept. Incidentally, the old woman announces
that the admirable aristocrat is “ a clever hand at
a bargain.” That can’t be praised as a guberna-
torial virtue, surely. I know a man who
had the honorable privilege of once selling
one horse to his lordship, and buying four from
him. a little later on. The illuminating descrip-
tion he gives of the gorgeously-endowed viceroy
is that “ he’s a slim, lanky sort of chap with a
little., head, and a liking for big profits at little
risk.” That sounds almost bourgeois. But no
man can be just, after a horse deal.
A wayfarer along the Coral Strand alleges that
he met Mrs. Brown Potter there. She goes round
in great state on a palanauined elephant, and is
hung with strange glowing jewels of indefinite
value. But the lady, says my gossip, doesn’t look
as though she enjoyed life too well. The contours
that once captivated every aesthetic eye are
thinner these days, and the blazing eyes look
very wan. But nevertheless she goes a proud
way through starry Asia. She mentioned that
she purposed a world-round tour, commencing in
Australia.
Mrs. Bland Holt returned last week, with the
faithful Miss Coppin in tow. Both voyagers are
only one stage from serious illness. Mrs. Holt is
very weak and unstrung by her experience of
fever, and Miss Coppin is still so ill that she is
guarded by a trained nurse, and suffers daily in-
spection from a physician. Bland himself isn’t
as well as he should be, either. He ascribes the
whole family’s ills to idleness.
There’s a glad prospect in store for the faithful
admirers of Miss Irma Dreyfus, the brilliant and
beautiful precieuse who governed the acquired
French accent of Melbourne a few years ago. She
is coming out here on a flying trip m the earliest
spring. Perhaps she’ll give a literary lecture or
two ; certain she is to give an exposition of grace
and wit. It is said of her that she was so clever
that one-half her acquaintances didn’t suspect it,
and the other half forgave her because she was
also so graceful ; and, if you’re a woman, you have
to be very pretty to be forgiven the fact that you
are clever.
Yet, for my part, beauty and brains together
always make me sorry for their possessor. The
combination must be exhausting, if each is used
to its utmost advantage. Beauty is a life work, if
a woman takes it seriously. Brains are an awful
responsibility. Women with both are apt to go
wrong in their dealings with the elusive man,
either frightening him by arrogant unfeminine
reason, or going to the other extreme and boring
him by mere prettiness. Complexity in women is
a vile thing. Any wise man will" tell you so.
Woman should make up her mind to go through
life in blue stockings and flat heels, or else wear a
tight waist and a glad blouse and a seductive
skirt, appealing always to superior man for en-
lightenment.
What’s bred in the bone comes out in the
bonnet ! Half the women I know are ruining
their reputations for mental sobriety and right-
eousness by their latest hats. Oh ! it’s dreadful.
One meets the mother of five, crowned with an
acre of purple panne, peopled with the bodies of
three dead cassowaries, and pinned on askew.
And she is the woman who professes tenderness of
heart and wide sympathies ! Then the most rigid
prude of one’s list hails one with a veil just long
enough to cover her incipient moustache hanging
from a vinous arrangement of tulle and grapes. A
staid matron bows a bare face from which a hat-
brim is turned back as abruptly as if an impatient
lover had crushed it so. A newly-engaged girl
wends her way in a hat that asks any man to flirt
with her ; and a maid who purposes entering a
convent passes by with a crest of scarlet feathers,
and a brim bent over her eyes at the angle
affected by Parisian cafe stars. (I have my know-
ledge of them from drawings.) A whole world
of women has turned coquettish, it would seem.
Woman is blazoning her secret thoughts on the
street-scape, and making open confession of her
failings through the medium of the harmless,
necessary hat. (But I’m never sure at which end
of my argument the cause of the effect lies. Is it
the woman who makes the hat wicked, or the hat
which demoralises the wearer ?)
The French cruiser Catinat broke into the bay
with a boom of salutation on Thursday, and
fluttered into a Reception frivol on Saturday. An
icy wind blew, but the Catinat decks were
swaddled in tricolor bunting for warmth, and a
frantic fury of an orchestra forced the guests to
dancing. Red-top-knotted sailors clustered in
picturesque heaps in corners, and grinned a wide
brown-and-white smile, and waiters rushed about
with wines and cakes served on platters of pistols
and lethal weapons. There was something
Frenchily frivolous in the way all the armory and
gunnery and horrible stabbing cutlery were tricked
out with flowers.
Commodore Buchard, who commands the
French naval division of the Pacific, is a jolly
little man with snappy black eyes, and a wife with
a sylph-like, dream of a figure and a face like a
French ivory pastel. She was aboard, and was
Parisienne-clad in pink. Her mother, gowned in
a deeper backgrounding pink, and another rela-
tion rounded the roseate sunset glow of color with
a still warmer tone. I have never seen pink
express so much. It was a triolet.
Heard one naval man, discussing the visit of the
American fleet, make moan : “ What will the
girls do with 600 officers—and officers who can
talk their language?” Commander Tickell, forced
into a rough guess by importunate girls, surmised
that the American fleet will arrive here about
October —just happening on Cup time.
Mr. Deakin ran down for a few affable moments,
and Commander Tickell and his wife helped the
party along: considerably. Mr. Acting-gaud-
Mayor Davey and Missus Vice-gaudy-Mayoress
and daughter dashed up the pier in the new-laid
landau, and held the deck for the rest of the day.
American Consul Bray beamed sociably. Just-
returtied Doctor Crivelli brought his sons. Mrs.
Masseran and Mrs. Diet and Miss Tweeddale
gave Frenchy life to the conversation.
Amongst the changing crowd, at the Catinat
reception, Mrs. Buchard walked as elegant as a
fashion-plate, and with the most recent figure-
shape on the vessel. {She was bandaged (that’s
what the newest frocks amount to) in dead rose
tussore, with a hat like a flower-wreathed soup-
plate. Her mamma, Mrs. Hector Wilson, was in a
redder shade of the same material, with lace dyed
to match, and quantities of diamonds. Mrs.
Aarons centred a vivacious group, looking like the
most youthful of Parisian matrons, in a mauve
and white robe of great merit. Mrs. Arthur
Payne looked like a Heller etching, more or less,
m a grey cloth cling and a capital black hat.
Everyone who pretends to artistic feeling stood
for a while at the end of the pier and said that
anyhow they were glad they came, ’cos Our Bay
(capitals, please !) looked like a beautiful Whistler
lithograph.
The musical world grieves at the passing of the
0.-Os. The Northcote lady is a good sort in
melodious matters. She not only lends her
a | llv ®ri n g presence to the beastly drauehts of
the Town Hall (or suffers asphyxiation in its
heat) for the sake of stars who are just visible
above the song-horizon, but encourages tender
and youthful amateur aspirants in cute ways.
I hree times in the last month she has had musical
Olga Wienarski and Hal Elvins at Guv’ment
House for an after-dinner heart-to-heart yearn of
melody, with shaded lights and a few carefully-
selected guests. The delighted two are impressed
into practising 48 hours a day in consequence.
. The aftermath of the Women's Exhibition
simmers down in sales. The “ Woorigoleen ”
Barkings auctioned the Madeira embroideries at a
sociable “ swarry ” at the Toorak house. The ladies
in the place where the wine comes from should
feel financially frisky when they hear the cash
results. Several hankies netted a solid two
pounds each, and none sank lower than half-a-
sovereign for its few frivolous square inches.
Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn bagged a twenty-five-
guinea bit of embroidered lawn for a frock, and
jealousy drove scraps of stitchery up to fabulous
prices. An orchestra played tenderly and
reverently in the library, and drowned the re-
marks of the Man-Payer-of-Cheques. The North-
cote Excellencies were there, and nodded to the
hammer occasionally.
The charming, birdlike Blanche Arral comes
back to a singing perch next Saturday : a concert
is announced, with a full orchestra, the organ,
and, as assistant vocalists, Boffard and Miss
Carmen Pinschof.
Miss Maud Harrington won £5O for the choir
she trained for the Women’s Exhibition. She
donated the cheque to the University.
“ Springbank,” Heidelberg, is still to remain
the head house of the Laidlaw family, with the
two unmarried daughters (Isabel and Christina) as
hostesses. ’Tis said the Misses Laidlaw and their
two sisters, Mrs. (Dr.) James Harbinson, of
Brighton, and Mrs. (widow) Todd, of Kew, have
each an income of £4OOO a year, part left by their
mother, part by a maiden aunt, and the rest
by their father. With all this wealth Dr. Jim
Harbinson is still keen upon his practice, and still
keener on verse-writing.
Mrs. Stuart Murray commences to show herself
frequently in her old haunts, looking quite unlike
the bouncing Miss Oliver of a year ago. The
matronette has been convalescing after an
agonising illness. She goes over for the Easter
festival to Sydney.
The Ernest Brookes have already packed their
kit-bags and turned their mutual eyes blue-
weatherwards. They’re taking the children and
the motor-car, and about 45 unfamiliar and
gorgeous gowns of Madam’s. And they intend
to adorn the Burns humpy at Parramatta for
quite a while after the last race-card has blown
into another hemisphere. Which proceeding is
calculated to reduce the gaiety of this town bv 15
per cent.
Mrs. Biard d’Aunet, who was the widow of one
of your late Justices, comes out in a little while
for a month or so of sunlight. She is bringing a
protegee, the nice daughter of a general. Mr.
Biard d’Aunet does not accompany his liege lady,
but stays in Paris.
Napoleon Boffard is giving a concert to celebrate
his tenth year of tenoring in Melbourne—a sort
of tin anniversary of his voice’s wedding with
local fees. Unlimited patronage has been granted
him by those hostesses who can’t bear a voice
unless it has a correct method of holding its knife
and fork.
It is said there is to be a law case—a suit for
£3500 commission—-on the sale of Werribee Estate
to the Government, and some hugely interesting
evidence is expected.
His Gaiters Pain, of Gippsland, parts with his
daughter Mary next week, when she’ll marry a
Mr. Holt, who hails from somewhere along the
one and only harbor. The wedding will happen
at Sale.
The young Whitings leave Papa and Mamma
Whiting next month, and take a swim
toward the Gulf Stream. Miss “ Raleigh ” Wil-
son goes with them. The elder sister, Claire, has
a prospective appointment for afternoon tea
with her fiance in Paris to fix the Day and the
brand of Altar. If the marriage takes place in
Europe the entire shoal of Whiting will spread its
fins and dash abroad.
The show of British pictures at the Exhibition
Building opens its doors to the public on Wednes-
day of this week. An early glimpse of the show
suggests that it should make an honest success.
In it there are some pictures which approach
greatness, and many which are signed by great
painters. Australians’ work is visible in every
department. Dora Meeson, Bess Norris, Charles
Gregory, Tom Roberts, Frank Brangwyn, and
Coates are the most important—after T. C. Gotch.
But none of them, excepting Brangwyn with a
couple of splendid etchings, make one wish to
cooee violently in the ear of Leighton’s “Andro-
meda.”
Gotch exhibits his last Academy canvas,, and a
very dainty water-color, “ Rose and Gold.’ His
big picture, “Golden Youth,” is finely painted,
but his little girls and boys look like a promenad-
ing idiot asylum. Solomon Solomons’ “ Laus
Deo” is there, a song of sonorous color and
virile sentiment, which is not marred even by its
bad setting under a glare of light. It, with
Leighton’s “Perseus and Andromeda,” Abbey’s
“Fair is my Love” (which is perfect in color,
drawing, and composition), Dicksee’s “Reverie,’
(a miracle of technique), and Jacomb-Hood s
“ Little Swineherd,” with its delicious idyllism
and superb color, strike the top notes of the
collection’s triumph.
H. S. Tuke is represented by some nudes
of either sex, which are poems in flesh and
sunlight. “The Pearl” is a delight. H. H.
La Thangue has a landscape which is singu-
larly Australian in character. This painting
is a beautiful treatment of sunlight and character.
Amongst the water-colorists, G. 0. Haite is
supreme. He has a charming sense of color and
atmosphere, and an instinct for subject which is
often singularly lacking in this department. Edgar
Bundy’s “Watercress Gatherers” is another
tine piece of color, and the “Anchorage” of Ayerst
is a jewel amongst sea-scapes. Geo. Coates has a
yallery-greenery picture of a musical family in a
dull room, which insensibly turns one’s mind to an
evening shivoo at the V.A.B. And there are
another five hundred occupants of the ugly wall
space ; of which about 75 per cent, are useless as
lessons for the local artists or investments for the
local Art patron.
J. Lake has arranged the galleries as well as he
could, but no human power could make them
suitable for the exposition of fine Art works.
His use of a red screen to the windows plays
strange tricks upon the eye, and his selection of
pictures casts a doubtful reflection on his taste.
Hovvever, we should be duly grateful that our
National Gallery has an opportunity to spend
money here, and spend it wisely. The first cheque
was signed by Geelong, which paid £lOO for “ The
Smithy,” a rather mediocre canvas by Fred Hall.
L’Alliance Francaise recommences its soirees
lectures on Friday (27th), in the Independent Hall.
Scribe’s terrible play, “ Adrienne Lecouvreur,”
will be read by the French members of the society,
and a certain amount of stage-craft is to be applied
to the reading. The committee has arrived at the
conclusion that it would be a graceful compliment
to send yearly invitations to the folk who pass the
LTniversitv French exams with honors. The re-
mainder of the universe can purchase tickets at
the Queen’s Library in Swanston-street.
Lucas, the bun-selling octopus who has got a ten-
tacle round the Vienna Cafe, finds his new acquisi-
tion a fairly big responsibility. But things look
fair ahead. Miss McFarland is to take up the
crook of the departed shepherdess. Miss McFar-
land is the girl who lifted the feeding committee
of the Women’s Exhibition out of a great hole in
the initial chaos, when Cats were clawing and tea-
shop marms were resigning with tears and explo-
sive force. Miss McFarland managed the food
and also the Catmittee, and her section of the
show, which, when she took charge, was only a
hole and a struggle and a chaos and a cloud of
dust with a cat-fight in the middle of it, became
not only orderly but eminently successful—in fact,
it showed larger profits than any other section.
“ Rosna ” sends her little tale from Adelaide
There committed matrimony recently, in London
town, Florence Ayers, one of the large Ayers
clan, the members whereof are all descended from Henry
of that ilk. A wonderfully numerous man was Henry of
that ilk. He was in eleven Ministries, and was
Premier seven times. Miss Florence, in company
with her sister and the Julian Ayers family, has been
jaunting-in Europe for some time'and ended by giving
her heart and hand into the keeping of Mr. M. T. B.
Fowler, who is Paymaster of H.M.S. Cyclops. The deed
was done with due flourish and splendor at St. James’s
Piccadilly. Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ayers and the bride’s
sister return very shortly to this peaceful State.
The British “ Voice that Breathed o’er Eden ” is also
soon to be employed at the union of Harold Vernon son
of the Leonard Brownes of Buckland Park. He marries
an East Anglian damsel, Doris Lillard, whose parents
dwell on their ancestral acres somewhere near Norwich
the city that is said to have been built out of Caister’s
ruins.
As a further development of the South Australian habit
of being wedded in England, Miss Florrie Hill, daughter
of the Roland Hiils, of Glenelg, sailed by the China last
week to add her wedding to the confusion. The Hills had
a frilly farewell tea, whereat the bride’s chums fore-
gathered to wish her luck and to throw at her the old
boot that signifies good fortune.
All the old girls (which is only a figure of speech for no
girls are really old) of the Advanced School for Girls are
mourning the demise of their Alma Mater, which has
been eaten up by the newly-invented Continuation
Schools. Almost all our intellectual daughters and
degreed Misses juggled with Greek verbs and equilateral
triangles at this old Government institution. Amorur
them were Edith Dornwell, first B.Sc. in the State ; the
clever Holder girls, who have an M.A. and any number of
other alphabetical distinctions among them; Dr. Helen
Mayo, the late Dr. Eulalie Burnand, Eleanor Cowper-
thwaite, M.A., and Florence Cooke, Mus. Bac.—to name
an infinitesimal portion.
Mrs. Bosley Jenkins did not, after all, decorate the
mumming profession for a whole pliocene period After
a few strenuous months, the wear and tear and the heat
and the cry of the prompter became too much for her
and she has now left the footlights and the painted back’
Glenelg nd returned fco the peace of the faniil y mansion at
Little Wanda Radford has been exhibiting her ability
to Kaiser William s down-trodden subjects in Berlin. At
that city dwells a committee which is interesting itself in
the talented Australian kiddy, and the thing was a kind
of report of progress. Her recital happened at noon
on a Sunday, and the hall was packed with an apprecia-
tive throng. Wanda gave items in English, French and
German, a somewhat large order for her brief
years. The critics fell considerably at her diminutive
feet and she had to carry away a good deal of laurels
Mr. Henry Dutton and his beauteous gilded yacht
Adfele have wearied of sailing the raging main, and have
come back to us safe and sound. The Adele’s interior
has been once more .wrapped in cotton wool, and the
trusty craft firmly tied up to the Outer Harbor Mr
Dutton returns to his prize jumbucks at Anlaby Son
Harry, of late rusticating in Tasmania, has also Returned
to the State of his fathers. (This doesn’t signify that he
has returned to the unclothed condition of his remote
ancestors.) remote
That clever young pianiste of the Elder Conservatoire
Carlien Jurs, gives a recital, in the Elder Hall on the
afternoon of the 28th. The same evening Mrs.’ Ewart
wife of the Melbourne professor and author of the t rial
ode at the Women’s Exhibition, tunes up her fiddle it fh!
Town Hall, and plays us a ditty or tZ, with contralto
Elva Rogers and pianist Schrader to help. Also sweet
Marie Narelle will dispense her bird-melody at the Town
Hall for three nights, commencing on March 31.
Adelaide Circulating Library has been the scene of
ructions. According to the committee the books are not
earning enough to pay for their dinner ; and it was de-
cided that, on the pending retirement of the librarian
the services of his understudy should be dispensed with’
and a new librarian appointed at a lower salary. The
subscribers, however, hurled their opinions at
the committee forcibly. The understudy has served
the library since he was a boy of 17, and has
developed tact and common sense ; also his billet has
not fitted him to go out and grapple for the elusive shekel
elsewhere. The subscribers flew to his rescue in such
force that the authorities took fright, wavered, and finally
resolved that the understudy be appointed librarian pro.
vided that he returns to his duties at once, and “ confers
freely and in a friendly spirit ” with the retiring librarian.
Evidently things have been lively in that seat of Corelli
and culture.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


• • o
ALL ATHLETES USE
BOSISTO’S “ Parrot Brand
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
mm ■ i
',YS 4
f
.1 v
/
*>
/i
p'
\
Bosisto’s
Remedy
“Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil, the Famed
for Rheumatism, Sprains, Bruises, Wounds,
\vv i .
Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMB
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic J»“sijrns. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises bv Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
RESCH’S XXX ALE.
BREWERY, DOWLING STREET, REDFERN.
yg.
qNj
Gr-o TO HELL'
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if y° u
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Nagcs), Ltd.
foreign stamp importers,
132 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Li3ts Crati*
POLITICAL
POINTS
Again the High Commissioner Bill is dropped
for a session, which means another unchecked
campaign of slanders against Australia in London.
It would seem as though, when this official is at
last appointed in the remote future, he will be
useless. As far as London is concerned, what
little character Australia will have left will be
hardly worth defending.
One little incident at Deakin’s Sydney
meeting gave the sensible citizen a proud feeling
that his city doesn’t sympathise with the Wade
attitude and the silly old-woman daily papers. An
interrupter sought to side-track the Prime
Minister from Defence with “What about the
Federal Capital?” And the whole meeting
promptly rose and shut that interrupter up with
loudly-expressed contempt.
The enormous effect for good which
Deakin’s last Sydney speech had should influence
him to come more often to the chief refuge of the
Anti-Nationalists. One real campaign by Deakin
would rout Reidism right out of the Ma State
(which is, as regards its population, just as demo-
cratic and national as any other State). Of course
the demands which can be made on Deakin’s
strength and time must have a limit, but it should
surely be possible for him to arrange an occasional
week—a fighting week—in Sydney.
THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIM
MOTHERS (AND SPINSTERS).
Twelve English suffragettes will arrive in Australia
shortly, attracted by the franchise.—Daily Paper.
Sydney Telegraph, expressing its disgust
of A. J. Balfour, says that, even if it had been a
great manufacturing centre, “imperial Rome, in
her last days, could not have kept the Goths from
her gates, because her citizens had lost their
ancient grip and fibre, largely through being
pampered by a too intrusively paternal Govern-
ment.” The D.T. evidently didn’t learn its
Roman history from Niebuhr or Gibbon, other-
wise it would know that the first disease that
Rome suffered from was an aristocratic legislature,
the second was land monopoly due to that same
legislature, the third was slavery, and the fourth
was its natural consequence, mixture of races.
The Vic. Board of Health’s comment on
the narrow escape of half-a-hundred recent pic-
nickers from ptomaine poisoning (many were
seriously ill for hours) was—“We have en-
deavored to minimise such risks by framing
regulations for enforcing the use of covers for
meat stuffs, etc., and it remains with the councils
to see that these are .carried out.” “It remains.”
Just so. And the councils, being largely in the food-
stuffs business themselves, say the regulations are
very nice and proper, and then put them away in
the topmost pigeon-hole for the mice to nibble.
Onslow, the military gentleman who
successfully defied the Liberal and Deform
League, including that illustrious ornament,
Tomato Jessep. over the Waverley seat at the last
N.S.W. election, was put up by Premier Wade as
mover bf the Address-in-Reply at the recent
Parliamentary opening. This presumably sig-
nifies that Onslow has been taken into the Deform
fold, and will hump the official banner next
election—which will be gall and wormwood to
Jessep. The tomato merchant has been nursing
his wrath and the electorate, and patiently wait-
ing for his chance. But apparently, when the
day arrives, Onslow will be the real article, while
Jessep will rank as a mere vote-splitter, and will
be repudiated, and will carry no flag save his own.
A committee bf the Melbourne Trades
Hall Council has inspected Tom Mann’s “clank-
ing chains ” ideas, and has thrown them over-
board. One union a while ago wanted every-
thing at once, and therefore resolved that
Arbitration Courts and Wages Boards were a
failure, and that the only thing to do was to
“organise on the lines of the Industrial
Workers of the World.” The council turned
a committee on to view the matter fore and
aft, and the committee has now reported
that “ the workers are bound to use
that machinery which secures the best re-
sult for the time being, recognising always
that each step upward is a foothold not
previously occupied.” So, in effect, the
machinery and implement makers, who
proposed the “clanking chains” move-
ment, are implored not to kill any
little Australian who comes into the
world not quite able to swing a sledge-
hammer or work a lathe, but to give
the little chap time to eat a plate of por-
ridge or two, and grow.
Bent s Gold Buyers’ Act of last session,
rushed through in a violent hurry, has already
got things into the prognosticated bungle. The
police objections to prospective gold-buyers are so
strenuous that in many mining townships no
buyer has been able to get a license, consequently
dozens ot fossickers, scraping up half-a-dozen
’weights a week or so, are on the verge of
starvation because they can’t dispose of
their accumulated specks. The little lots are
too small to be worth sending to the Mint,
and the local storekeeper daren’t exchange them
for goods lest he come under the Act. Gold has
actually been made unsaleable. In Bendigo the
P.M. refused, moreover, to issue a solitary license,
because, as he said, the Act stipulated that
licenses must be issued in accordance with the
regulations, and, as the Government had neglected
to make any regulations, he couldn’t issue any
licenses.
Surely Sachse, Victorian Minister for
Education, is a record. He has just discovered,
and is blaring the fact abroad, that the residences
provided for teachers are rotten, insanitary, in-
sufficient, etc., and that the school buildings are,
in many cases, pretty terrible. He announces
these things as if he were an earnest Oppositionist
discovering dreadful points about the Ministry.
Yet Sachse has been Minister for Education for
five years, and the guileless infant is actually dis-
covering dreadful things about himself. A
wiser person would start his reforms quietly
and not call attention to the fact that he has been
a loafing failure ever since 1903.
“ Cheetah ” : Australia is a land of weird
expectancy all right. For instance
Sydney expects to either be the
Federal capital or have the capital
in its backyard, although G. Reid,
on the State’s behalf, only con-
sented to join the Federation on
condition that the capital wasn’t
in Sydney or within 100 miles of it.
Sydney D.T. expects Australia to
he prepared to defend itself with-
out preparing.
T. Bent expects a knighthood.
Bill Ljne expects every importer
not to “ do ” his duty.
All the Sydney papers expect the
coalminers to respect Arbitration
after they themselves have been
throwing mud at it for three years.
Pastoralists expect the price of
wool to rise, and the price of labor
to fall.
Cow kings and queens expect
their child slave to develop into a
pocket Hercules on 20-hours-a-day
graft.
Mining vandals (who drink cham-
pagne) think Brovividence made
our inland rivers to carry off their
sludge slimes, and expect other
mortals (who drink river water—-
when they can yet it) to praise the
Lord for the mining industry !
The haste with which Chataway (Q.) spills
his Freetrade notions when any industry or pos-
sible industry in his own State is concerned is
illuminating. The other day, in the Senate, he
suggested a 10 per cent, duty on carbide of calcium
(now free), which he was assured could be cheaply
produced by harnessing the Barron Falls and
converting their energy into electricity. For this
industry in Queensland, which was merely
projected, he believes in adequate Protection ;
but otherwise he is a Freetrader.
The S. M. Herald has got an expert, who
has been instructing its readers on the merits of
the German army. He quotes figures to show
that during the 25 years from 1880 to 1904
Britain’s export of manufactured goods increased
by 9 per cent., and Germany’s by 61 per cent.
Then he makes this astounding statement—ap-
parently to explain Germany’s marvellous ex-
pansion :
During this period German industry lost for two o r
three years at a time the energies of several million men,
while England could bring her whole man-power contin-
uous] \ to bear on hers.
Germany’s actual loss in man-power amounted,
not to several millions for two or three years at a
time, but to the number in the active army (say
300,000) continuously. Compare that with Hal-
dane’s regular army of 165,000 men enlisted for
(practically) 12 years, and you get this curious
result—that, while the German soldier at the end
of his two years’ service goes home and sets to
work, invigorated, straightened up, and accus-
tomed to doing things methodically and promptly,
the British soldier, who has been away for 12
years (most of the time in foreign countries), has
lost most of his taste for home-life, has become
acclimatised to barracks, finds all his brothers
and sisters married, and perhaps his one-time best
girl the mother of the five children of some other
nian.
It is no wonder Cape Colony sacked
Premier Jameson —Leander Starr Jameson o 16
Raid. That fearsome persoji had been in office
since 1904, and had never made ends meet, put
this Year’s shortage—the one whichi the fleeing
Jameson leaves behind him —is £3,000, 0 , w nt ,
for a State with a revenue about equal to that or
Victoria, beats the best effort of the worst Aus-
tralian Treasurer fully twice over.
WADE IN THE BALANCE AND FOUND
WANTING.
“ Croson ” : Now I know why those Free-
trade Senators make long-winded speeches.
T’other day, when Millen, of N. S. Wales, was
vaporing, a Senator sang out that the conversation
was so loud that the Chairman couldn’t hear the
speaker. “I wouldn’t mind that,” jerked out
Millen, “if I could only hear myself.”
Commander Clarkson, who was sent
“ abroad ” by the Federal Government to report
on the construction of an Australian navy, re-
turns with this interesting picture of the Brown
Person :
We were struck by the great activity displayed in
connection with the construction of battleships, cruisers,
and destroyers. Japan has her own armor-plate works;
is laying down steel works ; makes ail her own naval
machinery, also 12-inch guns. So far as her plan of naval
construction concerns us, she has become a perfectly
self-contained nation.
Meanwhile, Australia, backed by the formidable
Protector, without a repair depdt even, and
lacking so much as a small-arms factory (much
less “ arm or-plate works”), indicates that
the Brown Person won’t be allowed on the
premises. When the inferior Brown Person
(who, “so far as naval construction concerns
us ... is self-contained”) finds time to argue the
matter, let’s hope we’ll at least have time to know
what struck us.
The “drastic tariff” still continues its
course of driving capital out of the country, and
making it harder for the poor working man to
get a crust. F. T. Wimble, of the Australian
Type Foundry, Melbourne, lately in-
formed Minister Chapman that the
duty on printer’s type had enabled
the firm to increase its output from
1800 to 43001 b. per week, and the
number of its employees from 39 to
81. It has, moieover, kept, and in-
tends to go on keeping, its. under-
taking not to raise prices above those
ruling before the new tariff. Also,
Hugo Wertheim, whose German-
made pianos have for years been
making a lot of noise in the
Commonwealth, is preparing to '
have them built here in future.
The weapons will cost about as
much, and Australian music-makers
will find the money to buy them
as before ; but that money will
mostly go into the pockets of
Australian artisans, instead of into
those of Hans and Gretchen.
Anglican Bishop Stretch, of New-
castle (N.S.W.), declares the faith that is
in him :
If the community expects that in time of trouble all
able-bodied men will rally to their country’s call and I
feel sure they would, it becomes the duty of the country
to give all such training in arms that shall save courae-'e
from being mere suicide. Of Ancient Greece it is said •
Gymnastics of some sort were rendered almost ohliva-
tory by the liability of every citizen to military and naval
service at a moment’s notice.” August Rebel the
German Socialist is quoted as saying, “ Home defence is
a duty for all who are capable of fulfilling that duty ”
Mark the word “capable”; it means now a (rood deal
I regard it not as a duty forced upon men but as -i
training given them in anticipation of a duty which T
know, and you know, they would gallantly accept even
though it spelt death. But our desire is that it should sue
victory and national safety. Everyone not under physical
disability should know how to ride, swim, shoot and
trench, and also some trade. I believe the training
should be so planned as to do away with larrikinism and
to add to the physique of our race. It could be combined
with valuable technical education and agricultural know
iedge Though we pray earnestly against war, we don’t
wish, if war comes, to see our manhood die for lack of
knowledge, and so it seems to me that universal training
in the use of arms may well he regarded by a Christian
assurance that h-ts
What a shire councillor the horse-leech’s
daughter would have made ! Still they don’t do
so badly without her. In Victoria these councils
get a huge subsidy from the State Treasury
largely provided by the city workers; also S
get a Luge road grant, an equivalent of the
licensing fees, and a grant for roads leading to
railway stations. Their rates are disgracefully
ow their valuations utterly dishonest ; they give
little to their charities, they sweat their officers
and servants and now they ask Treasurer Bent
for a special grant for bridges And uf L ,i
that, they have the blastiferous impmlence^tnV\l
themselves the “ backbone of the country ’ v
the Tory papers prate about their “ sturdy self
reliance .and manly independence ” 7
It was ascertained by a division i n th
House of Reps., the other day, that Chap m 6
Mauger, and Hume Cook favor a Federal land-tax’
It is known that Lyne feels the same way, and nr
bably Groom. Deakin favors such a tax, hut con
siders its imposition the work of next Parliament
after consultation with the people. Ewing ’’
opposed to it. The views of Keating and Best are
uncertain. _ _ . .
The great beer industry is being attacked
in Britain by a new Licensing Bill, and the Roths
children have gathered to the defence of the
brewery biz. The head of the great Rothschild
clan practically warns the Government that there
will be a financial crisis if sacrilegious hands
are set upon Beer profits. “The question of the
insufficiency of the national gold reserves” would
be re-opened, says the Rothskid threateningly.
When the present N.S.W. State Govern-
ment was about to pass’ its Improvement Leases
Cancellation (Declaratory) Bill, an appeal to the
House of Parliament was made by certain wealthy
pastoralists affected. Their plaint was that their
rights as British subjects were menaced, and they
desired to be heard by counsel at the bar of the
House. Premier Wade approved of the idea and
his party supported him with a block vote on the
grounds, to quote Wade’s own words, that—
We recognise as a fair principle that every subject
should have the right to appeal to the High Court of
Parliament in cases where he alleges that, his rights
are being infringed beyond those of the ordinary public
and also when impending legislation would deprive him
of certain rights, or impose certain hardships or injustice
upon him as distinguished from other members of the
community.
Briefly these pastoralists stood to have the
duration of their improvement leases cut down
from 28 to 34 years, and this was such a vital
matter that Wade’s party hastened to allow them
the right to plead their cause by counsel in
Parliament. Vet when Charles Oliver, who
stood to lose, by the then impending Railwav
Commissioners Bill, his office and his salary-L
not half of them but the whole lot—plead-
ed for the privilege of being heard by counsel
at the bar, the same majority was dra-
gooned by the Ministry of which Wade was a
prominent member to flatly refuse his petition.
State Premier Wade’s horrid yowl, be-
cause the Australian Parliament has used the
power for the regulation of .commerce granted to
it by the Constitution, and fixed a regulation
cornsack for import and export purposes, sets one
wondering what Wade wants. He says that
“the States” are quite competent to attend to
the matter. They may he, but they don’t attend.
And if they did attend—consider the joy of
having six different Parliaments passing’ six
different laws, and legalising six different sizes in
cornsacks, so that the Riverina sack couldn’t enter
Victoria, and the Western Vic. sack couldn’t goto
Adelaide, and the Tasmanian sack was an outlaw
in the other States, and the Westralian sack
a pariah ! Apparently Wade really thinks it
worth Australia’s while to go to all this trouble so
that its people may, on this small matter, have the
joy of governing themselves through Wade and
Bent, instead of through Deakin and Lyne. For
the people govern either way. They lose no
shred of authority through cornsacks being a
Federal instead of a State matter. The only losers
are the State Premiers whose importance is
diminished a little. Is it really worth while to
spend N.S.W.’s good State money on law pro-
ceedings in defence of Wade’s importance, espe-
cially when he has no claim on the blessed im-
portance ?
THE OLD TUNE.
“I wouldn’t leave my little Yes-No for you-hoo"
Suggested anti-Australian band to play at the
Franco-British Exhibition.
These Anti-Socialists always want the other
fellow to swallow their medicine. Josh Symon,
Senator and lawyer, is also one of the biggest
fruit-growers in S. Aus., and the fruit-growing
districts are his strongholds. It isn’t startling,
therefore, that he has struck a new idea—the
State ought to carry fruit at a low uniform rate on
the railways, no matter what the distance, “so
that the people in the dry, outlying districts might
get the blessing” of cheap cherries and grapes from
the orchards of Josiah and his neighbors. Yet if
the Australian manufacturer asked that his cloth-
ing, engines, hoots, etc., should he handled on the
same principle, the snort of ’Siah would he heart!
to the other side of the Gulf.
The squatters who are continually cursing
Socialism are urging the Price Government to
hurry up and double the capacity of the State
export and freezing works at Adelaide, otherwise
they fear that they won’t get so much for their
lambs next season. When the Government
started the export department, these same
squatters growled that it was a waste of money
and an interference with Private Enterprise; hut
they have now found that the Government does
much better for them than any of the private
firms. Still they are quite sure, in theory, that
Socialism is an invention of the Devil.
(Continued on page 32.)
OFF TO THE DOGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Senator Pulsford, who is a passenger by the Himalaya,
was interviewed at Fremantle on Tuesday. He thinks
Australia will go to the dogs if it does not return to a
Freetrade policy.— Daily Paper.
We’re on the road to the dear old dogs ; we’re galloping
down the road
In a reeling, fiery six-in-hand that swings with a joyous
load ;
There’s corn and oil and honey and wine and money for
you and me,
We’re on the road to the Cheerful Hounds—the Dogs of
Prosperity 1
Hoofs that rattle, and stones that fly, and the cracking of
merry whips !
W’e fed the foreigner overlong—our seas were filled with
his ships ;
We bought the rubbish from foreign slums for many a
shiftless day :
Our coach is piled with our own goods now, and the
hawker can pass away.
Down in the road, with his dusty pack, he watches us
dashing by,
He sees the peddling days are done, and he utters his
futile cry.
He leaps from under our horses’ feet and makes for the
roadside logs,
And hates to see us galloping off to the good old solvent
Dogs 1
N.S.W.
KODAK.


WRITE
AT ONCE
/<
m c
kiey*
n 5
tKe
Day”
Autumn and
l Winter
Fashions
500
Beautiful
Illustrations
Posted Free on Application
Buckley* Nunn 1?
Melbourne.
■Malthoid Flat Roofs.
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
"If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurklius.
No more stuffy bedrooms with vitiated air, that renders one as tired
when they wake as when they retired to sleep. The remedy lies in con-
structing a RE-INFORCED MALTHOID FLAT ROOF over at least part
of your house, on which you could eat, promenade, and sleep, and then a
morning freshness hitherto unknown will be yours.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
'tUtiZ
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Establishkd 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
\V. S. FRIEND & CO. G. A. GARDINER. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY &*CO. SORBY & CO., Nkwcastle. F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m*.
SHAVING SATISFACTION.
A LMOST anything- else does not matter much—but the Razor MUST be
" sharp for shaving—a finely tempered keen cutter, and all the better
if it is of silver steel. In the Pltitn Razor you get the highest
grade silver-steel razor with a KEEN cutting edge. So superior is the
“Plum” that we guarantee it for 2 years, and will keep it in shaving
order for that time free of cost. Price 10/6 to any country Post Free.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, fe/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
- Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, Surgic M a I k n ers, ument
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
' VjS
sw
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Stkrlr, Sole Agent.
. :7<
tiSi
;n
• ' .
uncim
DESTROYS
Alt *<»»« »'
INSECTS
;TV ; :
INSECTIBANE
n
H
s
w
mm
*
11 D^ 50 *
f 4 ' *» I * * ***
I TOMATO S
IS
/*
J *
A zestful relishi '
tscious tomatoes —
picked fruits fresli from the garden, fairly
Bursting with ruhy ripeness—only these
ire good enough for DyVson to use in the
making of his Tomato Sauce. All' the
lelicacy and daintiness of\a Home Made •
Reserve —and yet more choicely flavoured,.
fa wing to a score of years 'experience' in.'iii
; condiment making.
X ■ -TV
1 1 here are n« preservatives •
of any kind whatever in
DYASQN'S
TOMATO SAUCE.
Tomato Cmutney.
Tomato Catsup.
Sold by Grocers every where, .•"j


A STEWARDESS
Regards Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Piers as a
Splendid Remedy for Headaches and
Sciatica.
m
r
Mrs. Rankin,
who has some
time since retired
from the service
of the A.U.S.N.
Co., Ltd., in
whose steamers
she was so well
and favorably
known, says in
her letter that she
has found no
better remedy for
headaches and
sciatica than Dr.
Morse’s Indian
Root Rills, and
she has no hesita-
tion in recom-
mending them as
a splendid medi-
Clne : "D 4 Kent Street, Sydney.—Dear Sirs, —
As one who has used Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
I ills for many years, I can conscientiously say
that I have found no better remedy for headaches
and sciatica, hor many years I was stewardess
m the employ of the A.U.S.N. Co., and I always
carried a bottle of your pills with me, and I in-
variably found them as satisfactory with other
people as with myself. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
I ills are a splendid medicine, and I have no
hesitation in recommending them.” To those
who travel, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills should
be a constant companion, carried in the pocket or
handy in the portmanteau. Especially to those
journeying by sea are these pills invaluable. A
day or two before sailing the bowels should be
well regulated, and on board ship a pill or two
taken each night will in nine cases out of ten pre-
vent sea-sickness, as it is invariably the constipated
condition of the bowels which precipitates that
distressing complaint.”
CN’S SELECT
STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESjCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
In the issue of March 12th, The Bulletin did
sculler Fogwell an injustice by stating that he won money
by backing Webb while training Tresidder. Mr. Fogwell
did not bed, and warned other Australians not to do so
either. Having discovered that it has done Fogwell an
injustice The Bulletin feels that “it is up to it” to
rectify the misstatement. An apology is due to Mr.
Fogwell, and The Bulletin rises to express its regret that
it helped to circulate the incorrect report. He had
nothing to do with Tresidder’s training in a stipendiary
sense, and took him for spins merely out of friendship
and to keep up his own condition. As most people
know, he hopes to be a champion himself soon. It
is a horrible thing to say a man won money when
he didn’t. A caitiff once said the same thing
of this scribe, and all the old creditors and other friends
he had forgotten came round in a cloud and drove him to
the verge of bankruptcy. The memory of that awful
time impels the writer of the par. to rise hastily and
assure all whom it may concern that Fogwell made no
money out of the blessed race. The Lord forbid Fogwell,
or any other fellow creature, should have the awful ex-
perience alluded to. All the same, with his expert know-
ledge and good judgment, it was rather foolish of Fogwell
to have refrained from betting, and it seems to have been
purely his own fault he did not come back with his
pockets bulging. According to the great daily press, this
young country requires capital, and had Fogwell backed
his honest opinion he would have done himself no harm,
and have prevented quite a lot of Australian capital
going to Maoriland.
Eight-oared championship of Victoria, held on
the lower Yarra last Saturday, created more than usual
excitement, while the result provided considerable argu-.
ment. Two crews—Mercantile and Albert Park—con-
tested the 2£-mile paddle ’tween Williamstown ferry and
Footscray wharf, and it was a spin-of-a-coin affair all the
way. The first 200yds. saw Parks in front by a foot or so,
but, on settling down to steady graft against the sheet-
piling side of the river, Mercs, on the outside, poked
their nose in front, and Sloan kept it there till
the Bottle works. The Chemical works saw them
on equal terms, and to the Sugar works it was a see-saw
affair. On the last stretch, with the wharf in sight, the
trouble arose, cox. “Nutta” Arnold taking Parks outside
the forbidden piles that indicate the channel. The water
between the piles and the bank is usually shallow
and dangerous, but on this occasion it was good
enough, so Parks took it while Mercs held the
proper course. This short cut gave Parks a distinct
advantage, and they won by 4 a length in 12min. 37 4-ssec.
which is 17 3-ssee. outside the record made last year.
The short cut aroused considerable discussion, and as the
umpire wasn’t an encyclopaedia of rules, the matter
required an adjournment to a convenient pub, where
there was discovered a rule created on January 6th by
the V.R.A., that outside the channel at Footscray is.
“’gainst the law.” So Parks were disqualified and
Mercs adjudged the winners. Under the circumstances,
it’s difficult to say who would have won on the proper
course. In any case, it would have been a matter of feet,
and the short cut gave Parks the length.
» * * *
Saturday on Port Jackson was an Indian sum-
mer sort of afternoon, with a faint wind from the east
playing over its blue hills and sleepy waters. The dying
season could barely raise enough breath to breathe with.
Among those bodies that were making Saturday a Last
Day was the Prince Alfred Club. Its final appearance
took the form of a general handicap ; but the giants did
not enter, and the eight-metre boats fought it out on
their own. Only five started, and the fragile wind was too
light to blow all of them over the course, Oulwulla
and Sunbeam becoming practically becalmed. It was a
day of much sail, and the competing boats spread it to
the last inch. When that improvement lease of white
canvas drifted over the winning line it was found that
Mr. Murray’s Magic had won by 2min. lOsec. from Fleet-
wing, which, in turn, had beaten Kukuburra by 3min. 4sec.
* * * *
The Sydney EJving Squadron also celebrated
its last day with two heats and a final. In the first,
Famous and Young Jack were separated only by inches
most of the way, and at one time Australian came crowd-
ing on top of them. Then Young Jack's luck fell down
dead, and Chris Webb’s scratch boat took the wind,
passed it, and crowded after Famous, which, however,
always managed to keep its tiller in front of the
doughty Webb’s vessel. In the second heat Violet,
seemingly impelled by some spiritual influence which
made it independent of air force, soon cut down
the Gloria, the limit boat, and going to the front
won easily the whole way. The final started in
a slightly freshening breeze, which came out of the south
and breathed fresh life into the dry bones of the contest.
Desdemona bolted on the first breath of it. But the
light-footed Violet went romping after the Shakspearian
boat, and at Taylor Bay was only 23sec. behind. These
two had the race virtually to themselves, and in a breeze
that continued to freshen, although ever so slightly,
Violet passed Desdemona and led at Shark Island with a
margin of 55sec. After that, the position was never
changed, and Violet sailed home an easy winner of the
double event.
TT * * *
The annual race to decide the championship of
the Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. will be held on Saturday
fortnight, April 11. Understood that the Fairbanks will
defend the title in spite of the absence of Arthur Davies.
Said that ex-secretary Whatmore will introduce the
hydroplane on that occasion by driving a sliding structure
capable of travelling considerably over 20 miles an hour..
If Whatmore doesn’t turn up on his water gee-gee,
it is very likely that Fairbanks will have a walk
over. There have been whispers of several other hydro-
planes, but so far the whispers have ended in smoke.
Whatmore, however, is a man who does things, and it is
a cardinal principle of his creed that it is no good being
dog unless you are top dog. Anyhow, it is time Sydney
had a hydroplane, and it is to be hoped that the rumor of
Whatmore’s implement will prove to be correct.
* * * *
Vic. Football League, last week, glanced casu-
ally at a proposal dealing with professionalism and dis-
trict football, and, after some feeble remarks, shied it
aside. The suggestion was brought in by the finance
committee and was to the effect that no player should
play for any League club unless he had resided continu-
ously within 25 miles of the G.P.O. for at least three
months before the season commenced (Geelong was to
be restricted to within 25 miles of its B.O.); this
wasn’t to apply to the coming season, but such as
resided outside the limit were only to be allowed
first-class return fares and 10s. per day expenses. One
St. Kilda-and one Melbourne delegate and the University
two favored the proposal ; the rest tossed it out.
One delegate reckoned the country players his club had
scoured the State for were a success, but that they
couldn’t afford to “nurse” such men for three months
and then perhaps find them useless. Another reckoned
it was no business of the League’s, but of the individual
clubs, each case being dealt with on its merits. But the
choicest observation came from the secretary of last
season’s premiers. After some vague femarks about the
necessity of “ fostering ” country players, he asserted that
“ a statement had been made in the press regarding a
certain country player having been paid £4 a week
for his services. Well, the Carlton Club contended that
the player was fully entitled to that amount. If a player
proves himself a champion, the outlay on him is well
spent.” So, the secretary of the premier football club prac-
tically admits that his club pays one man £4 a week, and
says he is w'orth it. That is open professionalism ; and
professionalism means £4 a week for perhaps three
seasons, then £2, then the kick-out. And after?
One of the finest players of a few years back died in the
Melbourne Hospital lately, a broken-down wreck, a
vagrant. Another League player, lately worth an easy
billet and 30s. a week “expenses,” is to-day looking
for a billet, with Buckley’s chance of getting one. He
has forgotten how to work : the weeks of idleness between
the Saturday afternoons stole his energies away. And
there are dozens of others. Football is not like cricket. It
cannot keep the professional either at “ play' ” or at work
for seven months a year, and for 10 or 15 y’ears. The star
footballer lasts only three or four seasons, and five-sixths
of his time he is ioafing. That kills him. The League
should set to work to draw up a scheme of genuine district
football, and if the country’bailer is wanted in town he
should be found a billet in his club’s district and set to
w'ork ; and no player should receive more than his actual
travelling expenses and, say, 10s. for the Saturday' after-
noon. If that isn’t sufficient remuneration for his loss of
time, then he is too valuable a citizen to have his energies
wasted on football.
Concurrently with the League’s feeble yabber
over professionalism, the various clubs are holding their
annual meetings, and explaining how the money went.
St. Hilda is a typical example, though some items in
other balance-sheets want an awful lot of explanation.
“Saints” received £1,651 7s. lOd. net. The expenditure
was :
Cost of annual meeting .. .. £54 12 6
Postage, etc 56 1 9
Medicines, etc 64 8 0
Trainers’and coach’s W'ages .. . 151 5 0
Play'ers’ travelling and training ex-
penses 380 0 0
Laundry, boots, studs, etc .. .. 29 5 0
Uniforms and boots .. .. .. 91 15 6
Refreshments .. 49 10 0
Trip to Tasmania .. .. .. 375 0 0
Various small items 378 19 2
£1,630 16 11
leaving a balance of £2O 10s. lid.
Only a few years back the St. K. club com-
pounded with its creditors to the tune of 10s. in the £l,
with a promise to pay in full when able. That Tasmanian
trip would have gone a good way to redeeming that pro-
MRS. ISA BELL, of South Melbourne, who
claims the Australian female running cham-
pionship. She has never been beaten in a
sprint for a pie-dish or anything else.
Photos, by Symons, Melbourne
MISS IVY EVANS , of Windsor (Mclb.), an
athletic young lady who has captured 33
wins out of 37 starts. The pair meet for the
Australian championship.
mise. Again, look at the item £3BO for players’ travelling
and training exes. Saints played but 18 matches, each
with 18 players ; that means 235. sd. per man, every
Saturday and perhaps twice through the week, for travel-
ling exes, round Melbourne. South Melbourne was more
thrifty. Out of its £1590 14s. Bd. it spent £448 6s. lOd.
on the trip to Sydney, £330 on travelling and training
exes, and trainers’ wages, and £594 10s. on alterations
to its grand stand. It was fairly decent. Richmond, in
the Association last year, had only £577 to spend, and it
bust up £334 of this on travelling and training exes, and
accessories, uniforms, medicine, etc. ; £27 on postage,
and £57 on printing (!). The shocking example of the
Association was Essendon, which laid itself out to capture
the pennant by enticing League players galore. It raked
in £846, and of that £239 went in training fees, £214 in
travelling exes., and £347 on holiday tours—£Boo alto-
gether, leaving only a wretched £46 for stamps, medi-
cines, boots, uniforms, refreshments, laundry, printing,
etc. And then the chairman had the cheek to say that
“the balance-sheet showed that not one player received a
penny of remuneration.” Of course it didn’t show it.
They didn’t hope to get any more out of the £46, did
they ? In the light of the above-mentioned remark of
Carlton’s secretary, that club’s balance-sheet should have
been the most interesting of the lot; but, though the
writer has inspected it upside-down, and viewed it be-
tween the lines with a powerful microscope, he has failed
to find any trace of the £4 a week the secretary reckoned
the alleged champion was fully entitled to.
The old trouble about the right to manage the
ground has bobbed up once more at Carlton (Vic.), where
the football club is willing to put up a £6OOO grandstand,
but objects while the cricket club controls the committee
of management. Seeing that the F.C. last year paid the
Ground Committee £428 6s. for the use of the paddock,
the C.C., in driving it to look for another area, is only
cutting off its ear to spite its countenance. Where is
the Victorian cricket club that could pay £428 for its
pitch in one season ?
* * * *
A little while ago the N.S.W. Rugby League
was carrying the war into the Union camp, but to-day
the League is hardly heard of. In fact, the only noise
revealing the presence of the League is the sound of
heavy epithets rebounding off its carcase. The Rowing
Association kicked it hard recently by refusing to recog-
nise its members as amateurs should they vary their
exercises with a little work on the sliding seat. Then
Manly Club, the Union’s youngest pup, reared up last
Saturday and called the League a viper. The League’s
case, as far as concerns Manly—where most of the young
men’s parents are sufficiently well placed to nurse’ them
while sick and get them fresh billets when the broken
collar bone is re-set—seems to be hopeless, not one
player having seceded, according to the hon. sec. But
the heaviest blow of all was the refusal of the country
clubs to have anything to do with the new body. What-
ever it may be when it starts—if it does start—it is
certain that it will be a purely city affair, and be in a
tight place for grounds on which to play.
* * * ” *
The result of the Noble Testimonial Match was
a foregone conclusion. The Australian XI. made 569 in
the first innings, and the Rest of Australia could make
only 566 in two innings. Noble’s team thus won by
innings, three runs, and about £2OOO.
*■ * *
Grade cricket was suspended in Sydney on
Saturday last to give players and audiencess • • ,
to swell the gate of the Noble benefit *•- •
Judging by appearances, Noble is going t M ‘
fair swag, which, after all expenses are P a 'A ' ( ,
stand somewhere about £2OOO. A feature of th . »
which was held at Sydney Cricket Ground, and t ,
the members had to be admitted on their tickets, ■ ■
raiding of the members’ stand by collectors who * ■
the nois.y box under the nose of the deadhead. A 1 ■
ting some such raid, one member had gone prepare ,
dropped into every box a small disc of tin cut to the
of sixpence. As an indignant daily bitterly remarl >
probably did this because it was cheaper than a button.
It might have added, when it was in a mood for:afiuse,
that he probably stole the tin from which lie cut the aiscs
from an empty house owned by a widow with se
children. j *
Very little interest was taken in the discussions
for the Melbourne Cricket pennant last Saturday, as the
issue is already' decided. The matches between North an
Carlton and between ’Varsity and East were postponed,
as representatives from Carlton and East "’ere a.bsent, as-
sisting in Mary Ann Noble’s benefit match in Sydney. the
other arguments yielded as much excitement as a Christian
Endeavor feed. Fitzroy, being tired, or careless, or s()me-
thing, permitted Melbourne to bang up 358 for three
wickets, to which Vaughan (III), Tuck well (76), and H.
Bowden (73 not out) chiefly contributed. North-
cote made 151 against St. Hilda, which, up
to the present, has replied with three for “?•
Collingwood notched 208 against Richmond, and South ‘-09
against P’ran. The two best bowling performances
were those of Armstrong, who, for St. Hilda, bagged five
for 51, and Desmazures, who, for Richmond, took five for
43. Those were all. Second-grade cricket was infinitely
more interesting. In three different matches, three prac-
tically faultless centuries were compiled. Deas made I;>3
for Ports against Haw-Hawthorn ; Gardiner knocked to-
gether 153 (in two hours! for Carlton against P’ran ;
while McCristal, a newly-promoted junior, hit up a nice
total of 127 for Melbourne against Richmond.
Sydney ought to be proud of its Nigel Barker,
who redeemed his colors in the challenge match against
the Maoriland championship team. To win 100yds.,
300yds., and 880yds. in one afternoon against different
competitors each time proves that the Sydney flyer is a
man worthy of having a hat lifted to him'. When it was
announced that the University Athletic Club had
challenged the Maorilanders there was a hoarse guffaw.
But its members won five of the nine events on the pro-
gramme, Nigel Barker being ably seconded by Colin
Stewart. In addition to the wins Nigel Barker also scored
second place in the running broad jump, in which his
20ft. 6in. was only beaten by Colin Stewart’s 21ft. neat-.
Maoriland won the running high jump, per medium of
Orbell, of Timaru, who cleared sft. 7in. ; the mile run, by
Trembath ; and the mile walk, by H. E. Kerr. A handicap
100yds. was also won by L. M. M’Kay. In the 300yds.
Nigel Barker beat Trembath by 11yds.—a fearful doing.
* * *
Amateur record-breaker Pearson is nearly 10
years older than when he first established a road record
between Melbourne and Sydney, and the fact that he
went out the other day and chipped 17h. 41min. off his
own record, in spite of the increased load of years he was
carrying, was remarkable, not to say amazing. But then
Pearson is an athlete far out of the common ruck. He
holds 131 first prizes of one kind and another ; also he
is a splendid rower, and has stroked the N.S.W.
Inter-State Eight some half-dozen times or so
Still, the explanation is probably that the machine he
rode this year was better fitted for the task than the one
of ten .years ago. Neither his bike, nor the Dunlop tyres
with which it was shod, gave him any trouble, and in
addition the implement W'as fitted with the Armstrong
Patent Triplex dear, by which he could change the gear
from 56 to 74, and then to 96. This meant an enormous
saving of muscular and nervous energy on up-grades and
against head winds, and yet gave Pearson the means of
taking the utmost advantage of all good stretches of road
where there was either a favorable wind or no wind at all
But, all the same,' consider the careful, whoh some life
Pearson must have led during the last ten years That
ride is a much more powerful argument in favor
of clean and wholesome living than all the rant-
"m- S . ot , al * , the that ever got loose on this
afflicted continent. Now comes the announcement
that artist J. Salvana, also an amateur, will make an
attempt to reduce Pearson’s amazing time which beat
Salvana’s previous record by 16hr. 7min. He has drawn
up a time-table which, if he can run to it, will chip 7hr
24mm. off Pearson s record. But as he is making arrange-
ments to be paced throughout by a motor-bike, it is
doubtful if he can call it breaking Pearson’s time which
was made without pace. Salvana is in great fettle iust
now, and, taking a leaf from his rival’s book, will use a
three-speed gear.
When this issue went to press the Tours
Committee of the Automobile Club of Australia fSvdnevi
was considering the proposal of one of its number Mr H
Skinner, to hold a thousand-miles go-as-you-please relia
b.hty race Mr. Skmner’s proposal is that the cars should
race from Sydney to Bourke, stay there 10 hours for rest
of men and engines, and then start back for Sydney
First car back in the capital to win. The spell at Bourke
to be the only time during which the engines can be
stopped. This would be something like a reliability test
The only limits as to speed would be those caused by the
by-laws' of the various municipalities through which the
procession would streak. It’s a fine, fascinating idea, and
if the club will not take charge, it is almost certain ’that
the contest will come off under outside management
But it is almost certain that the club will keep the affair
under its own control.
The Automobile Club (Sydney) is coming out of
its shell considerably. In addition to the above proposed
wild-cat struggle, there is to be a racing carnival in
Sydney in about five weeks’ time. At the beginning of
the week the committee was inspecting various race-
courses, witli a view to selecting the one most suited to
fast travelling, and when The Bulletin went to press
Victoria Bark course was first favorite.
* * * *
“Tell the Daily Mail I hope to be in Paris
on July 15!” shouted Antonio Scarfoglio, the Italian
representative in the Round the World Motor Race, to a
newspaper man as his car started from New York. There
were six starters, and the papers tell how they looked like
over-loaded schooners, piled up with provisions and pick-
axes. Scarfoglio’s were fine brave words, but considering
that the cars struck trouble in a very ordinary snow-storm
after leaving Chicago, The Bulletin reckons that if
he keeps his word he will have completed the
journey by steamer and other means of transport. If
Antonio gets as far as Cape Prince of Wales on his own
power, he will have done wonders.
* * * *
So far, mighty little news has filtered through
regarding the performances at Florida Beach Motor
Speed Carnival. The only cablegram on the subject told
that a driver named Bernin had won the 100 Miles Inter-
national Championship and valuable Minneapolis Trophy,
in 72inin. oOsec., thus beating Clifford Earp’s 1906 record
for the same distance by 2sniiu. But, swift as it is, Bernin’s
flight does not come up to that of a nameless Napier
driver on the Brooklands track in England, who flew over
85 miles an hour, and 85 miles an hour is 70min. 40sec. for
100 miles, or 3min. faster than Bernin’s time. And yet Ber-
nin snould have made the faster time, as the straight-avvay
track of Florida Beach is 16 miles long on either side and
has only two banked turns, one at each end, while on the
Brooklands track the driver is practically on a banked
curve the whole time. As there is no .word of any break-
age, it is presumed that Marriot’s mile in 28 l-ssec, in
his steam car, and Demegot’s two miles in 58 4-ssec.,
records have not been injured. Both these astounding
times were put up on Florida Beach in 1906.
The hockey player is likewise beginning to stir
in his shell, and judging by the number of new clubs
talked of, or actually being formed, in and around
Sydney', the coming season promises to be a very busy
one. There is an association here which is affiliated with
the hockists of Maoriland, Victoria, and England, and
just nowit seems to be run by energetic men who are
bent on pushing the game to the front. Hockey is said
to be much less dangerous than football, and more refined
than lawn tennis, and should, therefore, be taken up
eagerly by the artistic section of the community.
Citizen Wren’s latest move is to appeal to
Bent, Peacock and Co. to pass an Act or make a regula-
tion, or something restraining the V.R.C. from boycott-
ing his Ascot racecourse. He rightly claims that under
the Lotteries, Betting and Gaming Act all duly licensed
racecourses stand on an equal basis, and one course or
club has no more right to hamper or injure another than
has, sa,y, the Melbourne Tramway Co., which uses public
roads for its own pecuniary advantage, to refuse to carry
passengers who patronise a particular line of private
’buses, or the Melbourne Harbor Trust to refuse the use
of its wharves to ships that patronise Geelong at times.
Evidently Citizen Wren is out for fight, and trouble is
pending, to others as well as the V.R.C.
* * *
Frank Beaurepaire was advertised to attempt
the breaking of Barney Kieran’s I-nnle record at Mel-
bourne City Baths last week. The officials, however,
managed to bungle the proceedings with incorrect count-
ing of laps, or the watches went too quickly. Also,
“ Bogey ” had a cold. The profits help to swell the bag
of money that is to carry' the hero to the Olympian Games
in England next July.
Mrs. Isa Bell and Miss Ivy Evans-engage in a
pedestrian struggle at the South Melbourne ground next
Wednesday afternoon. The pair will hoof it over time
distances—so, 100, and 150 .yards—for a side wager, so the
ads. say, and a share in the gate receipts. The manage-
ment is quite confident for the 100yds. that Mrs. Bell will
break the existing woman’s world-record. This stands to
the credit of Miss Fannie James, who did the distance in
13sec. on May 7, 1904, at Poughkeepsie (U.S.A.). Writer
reckons Mrs. Bell will find 13sec. no mean record to wipe
out, and she has an opponent of solidity to beat into the
bargain. A sound run for 100yds. by' an average
athletic woman amounts to 15sec.
■* * * *
Many anxious inquiries have been received as
to the date of the Warrnambool-Melbourne road race
this year. It has been ascertained from the Dunlop Co.
that, although no definite date has been fixed, the great
race will almost certainly take place during the latter part
of September.


KUGELMANN’S
©
©
Pvire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation ofthe lining - membrane
of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi , Bronchitis. "Write
for full booklet, or send T n Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Amusements
THEATRE ROYAL. SYDNEY
1 Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening- at 8, and Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
The Famous Romantic Play,
THE PRISONER OF ZENDA.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as usual.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
** Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In the Farcical Musical Play,
THE LADY DANDIES.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
QRITE R I O N TH EAT R E, SYDNEY.
CONTINUED SENSATIONAL SUCCESS of
EDWIN GEACH’S PREMIER DRAMATIC
COMPANY
.. IN ..
THE POWER OF THE CROSS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, and 1/- Plan at Elvy’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
THE FINEST ARRAY OF PICTURES EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
OPENING AT THE NEW LYCEUM,
SATURDAY, APRIL 4. •
PRICES—2s., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s,
T*OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
* Hon. Directors .. .. J. and N. TAIT.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, 28th inst.,
FAREWELL CHARITY CONCERT,
GIgKN BY
CLARA BUTT
AND
KENNERLEY RUMFORD,
TOR THE BENEFIT of the SYDNEY CHARITIES.
TICKETS—2I/-, 10/6, 7/6, 6/-, and 2/6.
PHILIP NEWBURY’S RETURN.
Mr. Philip Newbury and Madame Emily Spada will open
their Concert Season at the
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, APRIL 4.
(FOLLOWING DATES—7th, 9th, 11th APRIL.)
Mr. SYDNEY SCOTT, Mus. Bac., F.R.C.0., will be
included in the Newbury Concert Co.
ss. Reserved, 3s. Reserved, H. N. SOUTHWELL,
2s. and Is. Unreserved. Concert Manager, Paling’s.
The GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
* Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
The Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES (“The Best of All”).
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
Meynell and Gunn’s Newly-Organised Dramatic Co.,
including ,
MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY
.... IN ....
the LITTLE BREAD WINNER.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
GILHOOLEY’S AUSTRALIA
ORCHESTRA plays for every leading
Society' function in Sydney, and is always up-to-date;
latest music. W. R. CILHOOLEY, Tel. 3931,
B4 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
X IY OL I THEATRE, S Y DiMEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Immense Success of MISS MARGARET PARKER & CO.
in “SUNSHINE.”
J. P. LING, London’s Celebrated Mimetic Monologuist
and Versatile Entertainer.
IKE AND WILL SCOTT, the Celebrated Comedians.
Last Nights of THE SISTERS KLOS, the Most Graceful,
Skilful, and Daring Aerialists Extant.
Mr. FRANK HARWOOD. LEONARD NELSON.
PRICES 35., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA0 PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. EDWIN BOYDE, London’s Celebrated Singing
Comedian.
ARTOIS BROTHERS, Comedy Horizontal Bar Act.
ALMA GRAY, Vocalist, Dancer.
KAUFMANN TROUPE, World’s Greatest Bicyclists.
SYLVO, World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
WILL LOCHRANE, Scotch Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s. 2s fid, 2s, Is.
LJ ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY CO.,
Including MR. THOMAS KINGSTON and MRS.
ROBERT BROUGH,
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
FAREWELL SEASON,
PRIOR to THEIR DEPARTURE to LONDON, of
CLARA BUTT
AND
KENNERLEY RUMEORD.
THURSDAY, APRIL 2.
SATURDAY, APRIL 4.
MONDAY, APRIL 6.
FRIDAY, APRIL 10
(at 8 p.m.),
£2T Box Plan and Tickets at Allan’s.
WT R T H’ S OLYM P I A
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE lfl hL
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
1J
-r.Q
NEW SONGS no. 5
ONLY 7d. EACH. List.
Words with Full Plano Accompaniment.
12 for 6s 3rf. Post Free Anywnere.
Furniture on hire—The Galloping- Major—
The Gambling Man—Garden filled with Gold—Girls ! Girls !!
G ,r ls ! ! .'—Give me a Ticket to Heaven—Give me Back my Heart
again “Go awaj', Mister Crocodile!"—Good-bye, and Goi
bless you, Jack—Good-bye, my bttle London Girl-Good-night,
Mr. Brown, J’m out !—“ Good-night, Number One ! ’’ —Good Old
Joe (to melody of Poor O d Joe)—The Good Old Union Jack—
Go way, good Bee—Grow, little Mushroom, grow !
Half-time-Change over—He was a Sailor—Etc.
Our Music Lists and Illustrated Noveltv Catalogue posted free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 r>ollihs St., Melbourne.
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes:
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
HOT SUBJECTS
WARD STOVES
... FOR ...
TOWN and COUNTRY
Cook under any Conditions with any
I H uel Coal, Coke or Long Wood.
Heads of Families . . .
Send for General Catalogue.
Farmers and Selectors...
Send for Catalogue of Country Stoves.
Hotel Keepers . . .
Send for Catalogue of Hotel Ranges.
Station Owners . . .
Send for Country Catalog'ue.
JAS. WARD,
Stove Show Rooms,
501 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
§
111
RODOX is the most suc-
cessful Rabbit Poison
used in Victoria. This is
shown by the hundreds
of testimonials received.
2'/ 2 lb. Tins, 2/- each.
Wholesale Agents :
Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.
MELBOURNE.
1
'/ KEEP TO
THE RIGHT ’
/ iii
*3
Y
/
7 /
m
n
\
%
[J
J
*8
CP=^
*v/i>
W


It costs hut a small amount to keep Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy
always on hand, and it is economy in the end.*
BETTER
Ability.
There is a time-worn saying that “Salesmen
are born —not made !”
The first part of that saying is true, and will
always be true. The phenomenon of being born
seems to be common to all men, salesmen included.
Sheldon holds, however, that Salesmen are
“made” as well as born, and he has proved his
claim in thousands of cases. He holds that even
the “born” Salesman can be made stronger by
his system of true education—that no Salesman
is so good he cannot become better.
A Sale is a mental thing or process—the intelli-
gent co-operation of (me mind with another. A
sale is brought about, therefore, not by technical
knowledge alone, but by the power of persuasion
—the ability to persuade another to your way of
thinking. And the power to persuade is the
result of a masterful personality and of that only.
Salesmanship is a profession, and the highest
paid of all professions. There is more money in
selling than in anything else— if you can sell.
Salesmen virtually set their own salaries, because
they are producers ; and in proportion as they
produce are they paid.
On the salesman —the business man—there are
no limits set. As he can produce, in that pro-
portion can he take. Wealth —material power—
and all the good things that go with them, await
the man who can learn to be a great salesman—the
man who can create business.
But this wonderful power to create business—
this masterful personality that persuades —from
where does it come ? It comes from the man him-
self, from the development of the latent forces
within him. All growth is from within outward.
All successful men are men of strong personality.
And all normal men have the material out of
which to develop strong personality.
We have helped 29,000 students—helped them
to greater strength which they have turned into
increased e irnings. On the average we
multiply a student’s earning capacity by two—no
matter what his income or position may be.
We have spent £200,000 to perfect the course of
study that will make you stronger, that will
double your earning capacity.
And you can master it in your spare moments
—no time needed from your regular business.
All instruction is by correspondence.
Write for prospectus.
Equipment.
Office
Desks.
A good Desk is really an office within an office. The affairs of the
business centre there; it is the radiating point, and, if correctly designed, it
affords just what is needed —privacy, convenience, and comfort.
The Roll Top Desk is the high-water mark of desk development,
and with its lock drawers, pigeon-holes directly within reach, and roll
curtain to pull down over papers, ensuring that they will remain
undisturbed and free from dust, it is little wonder the modern man of
affairs feels that he cannot do without one. Write for our catalogue
of special values in desks of all kinds. We both manufacture locally,
and import direct from foreign makers.
Safes.
To carry on business without a Fire-Proof Safe amounts to some-
thing like criminal negligence. Records, private papers, books of account,
receipts, etc., should be protected. The value of insurance depends upon
its collection, and where the records of a business have been destroyed
by fire, it is impossible to establish a claim. A good safe prevents all
confusion and loss. Our safes have a record of nearly 40 years in Aus-
tralasia, and they are better now than ever before. Write for catalogue.
Typewriters.
The Briton is a standard machine improved by simplicity, Universal
keyboard— improved escapement —automatic ribbon movement. Swift
strong and silent. Write for terms and full description. Agents wanted
in unallotted territory.
Systems.
A card or filing system to be valuable to you must be made to
fit your business as far as possible. These systems are very simple, and
save hours of useless worry, and prevent hundreds of delays and errors.
We manufacture and import Cabinets of all kinds, and design and
install systems for all purposes. Write for the details of advantage that
these modern appliances afford. Catalogues, etc., free of charge.
Methods.
Can you afford to waste time and effort experi-
menting with business problems which other men
have solved ?
Will you deny yourself the opportunity to learn
the proved facts of business —in these days of
competition when one established fact is worth a
hatful of theory ?
Business knowledge is Brain Capital.
The Business Man’s
Library
edited by 100 Business Men with world-
wide reputations.
Vol. I—Organisation
2 Costs
3 Credits (S. Collections
4 Correspondence
5 Buying
6 Selling
7 Advertising'
8— Personality
9 Employer &. Employee
lO—Accounting' Office
Methods
Now used by nearly 500 Australian Firms.
Also
“ System ” Magazine—
The International Monthly Magazine of
Business (English or American Edition).
“ Salesmanship ** —
A Monthly Journal that will put
enthusiasm and efficiency into every
department of any business.
THe Sheldon School
of Salesmanship,
supervised by
Southern Sales Limited,
282-284 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Box 1700).
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Victorian Railway authorities have their
doubts about some well-to-do city men who send their
womenfolk down to Frankston and Carrum for the
summer, and slip down from Saturday to Monday them-
selves. The increasing scarcity of down-the-line return
tickets and the frequency of single ones roused a suspicion
that the housefather of Toorak, Malvern, etc., was riding
up to his own suburb “ on the never,” and then passing
through the Flinders-street gates on his monthly or
yearly. So the other Monday morning the week-enders
were disgusted to find the “ flying gang” away
down at Moorabbin. The gang seldom goes be-
yond the immediate suburbs, and the ticketless
Toorakian is generally safe beyond that station ; but the
result showed that the gang might go further and fare
better, bix trains were overhauled, and the “ catch ”
was 14 every one from a first-class carriage. Since then
res P ec,;a “' e citizens” have been assuring the
Irathe Manager most earnestly that “ it was quite an
oversight—must have left the return half down at the
beach or given it to the wife. Suppose I pay double fare
as a reminder to be more careful?” But the Traffic
Manager knows that for a good while the week-end single
tickets have exceeded the “returns,” and he becomes
deal on that side.
„ , . * * *
(Jne or two big wheat-dealers who had got the
farmers to accept them as “ friends of the producers”
had a horrible quarter of an hour the other day. They
whipped up a farmers’ deputation to acting-Premier
Kirkpatrick, of S. Australia, imploring him to join the
Scate insects in buzzing about the 2001 b. wheat-bag and
harassing the Commonwealth. But Kirkpatrick, after
remarking that the first thing to do was to find out
whether it was any of the State’s business, rushed along
to point out that somehow the market quotations for
wheat were much lower in Adelaide than they were in
Melbourne and Sydney, and 3d. a bushel dropped by the
farmers that way meant a quarter of a million out of the
pockets of the S. Australian bucolics in general. On one
day recently the price in Adelaide was 4s. 2£d., while in
Melbourne it was 4s. sd. to 4s. 6d., and in Sydney 4s. 7d.
to 4s. B£d. He was aplain man, he said, and a quarter of a
million seemed a lot to deprive the S. Australian farmers
of, so the Government was appointing a commission to in-
quire where the quarter of a million went to. This wasn’t
a b j(; ijjjg w hat those wheat-dealers had come to hear and
say, wherefore some uneasy person at the back broke in,
“ Yes,but what about the wheat bags—that’s what wecame
about?” “ Oh yes,” said the innocent-looking patriarch,
“I’ll refer that matter to the Crown Solicitor.” But
meantime he hoped the farmers would assist that coni-
mission he was talking about, by giving all the evidence
they could. Shortly after that two or three very fat and
very annoyed wheat-dealers were asking some rather
suspicious farmers what else you could expect from a
Labor fellow. , * »
‘‘ Cr °f n : ve .." Me j b -” (?■
another to add to the three licensed hotels which dis-
appeared from Melbourne streets voluntarily. He names
The British Admiral, The Rainbow, and Captain Vallange’s
Rose, Thistle and Shamrock. There was also one nearly
op P o f® the Eastern Market, in Big Bourke bought up
and built on by John Payne, draper. It bore sundry
names—Nissen’s in ’97 to ’00; then the Redleaf, kept by
Mick Nathan ; afterwards the A.N.A. It disappeared
j n > o4<
* * * *
Will somebody buv two motor ’buses ? They
Krsysfi.sa sa a zzs xs
corpses are littering the road in Adelaide, and making a
neat city untidy. It was this way : When somebody sug-
gested motor-’bus opposition to the Adelaide horse-trams,
the four cos. themselves rushed off an order for two of
the vehicles ; but w'hen they arrived—they cost £lOOO
eaod they weren’t any good for traffic purposes. Now
the four tram cos. have had their businesses taken over
by the State, as the backer of a Trust; but, as they all
°wn a share in the ’buses, and the liquidators can’t sell
those vehicles, they can’t wind up the affairs finally, so
the f° ur previously-mentioned corpses are kept out of
their well-earned graves.
* * * *
The late W. J. Clarke, Bart., or his father,
“Big” Clarke, put a lot of “savings” into suburban
terraces—thoseplaceswhereyoucancrammauydwellings,
and consequently much rent, on a very little land. Sundry
Melbourne auctioneers are just now earning tidy cotn-
missions putting up little lots like Janet terrace (three
two-storey houses) in East Melbourne, and Clive and
Belinda terraces in Albert Park. The title is generally
“ Crown grant.”
* . * * *
“Homo”: Amidst the Oriental display in the
window of the “Indian merchant,” of Bourke-street,
Melbourne, is one novel line of goods. A number of little
bone curry-combs for the human body, stuck on long,
thin handies, carry the sign “ Back-scratchers, 9d. each.”
Evidently Asia knows what we shall want when it brings
itself and its habits into our street,
* * * *
“Mac”: The S. M. Herald hopes that the
Commonwealth Companies Bill will provide for limited
partnerships, as recently legalised in a British Act. We
want no such legislation here ; there is already too great
a tendency to shunt personal responsibility in the com-
inercial world. If Great Britain likes to import Yankee
notions in its foolish old age, that is no reason why voung
Australia should play the part of the parrot and be a
mere imitator. Scores of limited cos. are nothing more
nor less than conversions for the express purpose of
limiting the liability of the proprietors and pro-
tecting their accumulations against future possible
losses. The limited liability idea was originally in-
tended to encourage joint-stock enterprise. The
modern idea is to convert Brown and Jones into
Brown-Jones, Limited, by taking in Mrs. Brown and Mrs.
Jones as shareholders, together with Brown and Jones’
manager, solicitor and confidential clerk. If any amend-
merit of the law is needed it is one to block this bogus corn-
pany business. There is something gloriously impersonal
about the body corporate, with its common seal and its
limited liability, especially when the liquidator comes
along and finds no assets for the unsecured creditor,
while old Brown and the only Jones and Mrs.
Brown and Mrs. Jones go riding past.
motor car, laughing at the aforesaid liquidator ana
the unsatisfied creditor. We want no limited P art
ships to add to this kindof cheating. If sleeping partner,
want to share in profits, let them face the responsibilities
of the business.
* * * *
Melbourne Age girds again at the awful waste
of coin and energy that goes on in distributing the >
public and private charity. Professional philanthropists
and professional charity-seekers between them seem to
mop up a good half of what the public gives. Of the Hos-
pitals, the Children’s collects £lOO at an average cost
£l, the Austin spends £6 4s. Bd. in getting £lOO, tne
Women’s £3 14s. 3d., the Melbourne £6 2s. lOd. j whtle it
costs the Eye and Ear £41105., the Castlemaine £3l9s. od.,
the Beechworth £32, and the Alfred £l/ 18s. 4d. to collect
the same amount. Most of the hospitals seem to be
“ administered ” rather reasonably, but the other chari-
ties badly need someone to call round with an axe
or a gun. Last year the Collingw'ood Dispensary
spent £54 12s. lid. on relief and £lB2 3s. sd.
on administration ; the Prisoners’ Aid Society gave
£ll3 7s. 7d. in relief, at a cost of £314 4s. 3d. in
administration; the Homes of Hope, £517 6s. id., at a
cost of £612 Bs. Bd. ; and so forth. The other day, Bent
—for charitable purposes Bent is the Government gave
the Ragged Boys Home £3OO for a new' building. The
Inspector of Charities will see that the £3OO is spent on
bricks, timber, etc., but he has nothing to do with the
Home’s private donations. Yet he certainly ought to,
for last year this Society spent £370 3s. 2d. on its Home
and its boys, and £4Bl 9s. 3d. on salaries, collectors ex-
penses, printing, advertising, commission and sundries.
Five of these small charities—or businesses last year
spent £1551 18s. 4d. in giving £1239 14s. Id. worth of
assistance. They all print voluminous reports, send out
balance sheets, hold subscribers’meetings, and have large
and variegated committees ; also their travelling expenses
and postage bills are something enormous. The varia-
tions in their accounts show' a screw loose somewhere.
One Women’s Refuge maintains its beds for £25 9s. 3d.
per annum each, while another needs £57 Is. lOd. One
country hospital has an average of 40 beds continually
occupied, while another, no great distance away, only'
averages five patients—its patients are less numerous
than its staff. On the other side of this unpleasant pic-
ture is almost the only charity worth the name the
Jewish Philanthropic Society, which last year gave £lOl4
16s. 7d. in actual relief, and spent but £4B Bs. 9d. in
administration. Of course, these private and semi-
private philanthropists know the.y have only' to besiege
B nt with a plausible or pitiful tale, and, as long
as he has a surplus, State help will be
forthcoming on condition that an equal amount is
privately subscribed. The latter is squeezed out on the
strength of the promise of the former, and as there is no
supervision over its expenditure, it can all be spent in
administration. Bent has frequently threatened to “ do
something,” and even drew up a Charities Bill once, but
he got no further, being busy with a brickyard, or a trip
to England for his mates, or buying an estate at an
impossible price, or something. And all the while the
w’aste and extravagance go on, and the professional
philantnropist potters round, collecting “expenses” and
adulation and respect, to w'hich he, or she, is in no way
entitled,
* * * *
The Vic. Railway Commissioners have revised
the railway freights on butter and cream, making the
latter considerably higher. This has been done to check-
mate the tactics of the city agents, who Were using all
sorts of underhand means and methods to coax the cream
away from the country factories. So successful had the
agents been in many cases, that several factories and
creameries had been compelled to close their doors. In
Gippsland, especially, whole districts were left without a
factory or creamery, and the city' agents reaped the
profit.. The bisr, wealthy Western District factories
had managed to hold their own fairly w’ell; but the Colac
company'was complaining bitterly 7 of the tactics of the
agents. The old freight rates, which carried cream at a
lower rate than butter, actually helped the city'agents. No
one denies that it is better, both for the butter and for the
dairy’ men, for the cream to be treated in the country.
First-class butter can’t he made in the city' from cream
that has done a long journey' b.v rail and cart. Also the
private city' agent has about the smellfulest of reputa-
tions for shady dealing. So the action of the conmiis-
sioners in raising the freight on cra*m is warmlv vvel
coined by almost everyone. Yet one firm of city agents'
had the impudence to publish a haughty protest in
which the interference with, not the agent, but ’the
farmer, was bitterly complained of. In reply the
Government said that the question had been carefully
thought out, and the decision come to was final. So the
co-operative factories are to be given a decent chance •
and the way of the foolish dairyman, who cuts his own
throat by patronising the city agents, is to be made a bit
harder than before, which is very satisfactory.
These Cow-worshippers are a modest lot. The
other day, the Southern Queensland Co-operative Dairy
Cn ueld its first annual meeting at Beenleigh. So far
i „,y 2520 £1 shares have been taken up, and the
factory has been at work but seven months ; vet a gross
profit of £404 was shown, or just 30 per cent, per annum
on the capital, even supposing the whole 2326 shares had
been fully paid up all the time. Yet, after showing a
result like that, there was a tremendous growl about
salaries and wages (£584, or not 45 per cent, more
than the profit), and the directors were urged to
cut things finer. Co-operation is a great thing ; but here
and there some extra-mean Cow men are doing their little
bit to make working people think it means soul-less
sweating.
* * 9 V
“ Jobber ” : Re “ Sweat and Crime ” (B. 6/2/’08).
That exposure reminds me of several cases dissimilar
only from those quoted in that there has been no em-
bezzlement yet. There are men managing country
branches of banks on £l50 —and less! I know of one
youth whose parents were sufficiently misguided to put
him in a bank (grand thing to have Arthur in a bank).
He started on £3O per annum. His parents paid £lO for
the privilege of having a bank clerk in the family. The
bank clerk paid £3 (minimum) into the Guarantee and
Provident Fund. Shortly, very shortly, after joining, he
was transferred to a branch up country as ledger-keeper
pass-book expert, postage clerk and general junior’
but there was no increase in salary. He
worked 12 months—mostly away from hoine— for
£l7! Next he was moved from his own State
and in time was appointed teller in a busy gold-
fields branch office. He left his own State on £6O per
annum, and by the time he was established as teller on
the mining town his screw had drifted to £9O per annum,
with an allowance of £l5 per annum. He was in charge
of upwards of £6OOO in cash, and mining wages once a
fortnight used to take from £3OOO to £4OOO. A little gold
buying and escort duty were thrown in. That chap told
me that, after he had paid his board and dressed decently,
the idea of keeping a wife was far away ; he couldn’t keep
as much as a secret. I believe that cove. I knew him. I
know'him now; he’s a cocky. In short, I’m him. I’ve
been rouseabouting, droving, road-making and waltzing
Matilda since then, and I’d sooner even be a packhorse
with a sore back than a bank clerk.
* * * *
“ Itan ” : The foreshores of Broken Bay and
thereabouts, which measure some hundreds of miles, help
to make Dago’s bread and butter in N.S.W. These
banks are nearly all oyster-bearing, if stones to
catch the spat are dropped between high and
low water mark. Everywhere the boatman goes,
he sees sticks standing out of the water, each
surmounted by a piece of board, upon which is written a
notice that the premises are a lease. This implies many
pains and penalties to the trespasser. Where there are
natural deposits of rocks, the lessee from Corinth does
nothing more than gather the crop ; for that right he pays
a yearly rent of £1 per 100yds. There are a few public
reserves, but they carry few oysters, partly because the
neighboring leaseholders (from Corinth) are on the qui
vive to exploit the sparse field when the inspector is not
about. The retail trade in Sydney' and Newcastle is con-
trolled by the Dago ring, and although there is a large
consumption and a large output, the prices per plate
keep up. The bottle branch of the industry is, to a great
extent, a fraud. The openers put the oysters into fresh
water with boracic acid, so that a dozen or twenty
oysters are sw'ollen up to fill the bottle, and the hood-
winked buyer thinks he is getting several dozen for his
Is. 6d.
TANNERY LADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The three big Bills along the board, they sing a rollicking
song—
They murmur praise of a heerful life, pushing piles of
grease along ;
They stuff pale hides w’ith tallowed oil; and the pleasant
morn outside
Sends forth all kinds of lovely’ scents—and we labor on
bullock-hide 1 !
The hot air blows through the drying pipes, and the loud,
rich odors rise ;
Cod-oil and smellful kidney-fats, with a fragrance of
melting size,
And it’s well to know—it’ll keep y'ou cool and temper
your sinful pride—
That, as long as you toil in the tannery here, you’ll smell
o’ the bullock-hide 1
The three big Bills maul skins that drip slow fat on the
floor beneath,
Each one o’ them warm arid moist, with chewed tobacco
in his teeth,
And, up the floor, we struggle among big leather, hack
and side,
And splash the nervy trimmer, slashing skirt-w'aste off
the hide.
A low, unceasing murmur runs clean through the hust-
ling works,
From Dick that sings at the tail-machine to the joyful
slab that jerks
Uncounted skins on the airing hooks, and the slinger-up
that’s tied
In a tangle of cornsacks, neck to knee, to slop in a sea
of hide.
The thrqe big Bills and the rest o’ the bunch that worry
the scented skin,
They’re rank clean through—green-hide, and scalded
stuff, and wattle-bin—
And, when we’re through with the tannery, lad, at the
calling o’ Death, the Bride,
We’ll go to our rest with flowers—and a faint bouquet o’
the bullock hide.
vic.
FRANK HENTY.


feting
in
o
<
Australian
Tk
MARK HAMBOURG,
writing' on “The Life of a Piano,” says
in his Article in “ Cassell’s Magazine,”
January, 1908 s
“It may, perhaps, interest my readers to learn that the life
of a piano made for public performances on the concert
platform is comparatively a short one* I would never play
on the same piano in public more than fifteen times* These
pianos are peculiarly constructed* They are infinitely more
fragile than an ordinary instrument, and are not intended
to last for a very long time. Sometimes I have had to
give up a piano after having played only six times on it,
and after every performance the instrument, no matter how
good a one it may be, has to be completely overhauled and
tuned before it is fit to play again.”
1
’#
"T
A
S£
The above is a Beale FULL CONCERT GRAND PIANO. These are tbe
ONLY HORIZONTAL/ GRAND PIANOS IN THE WORLD WITH SOLID IRON
WREST-PLANR, and wbicb will REMAIN at Fall Philharmonic Concert Pitcb.
p J'eo q A 9 yj
v
.
*
iltil
M
n*
* ♦ ■ «
Sounding —Aboard
•fa
Ni-
s
The illustration at the left hereof shows the wooden wrest-plank of an imported horizontal Grand.
Every imported piano has a wooden wrest-plank.
Note the two hundred and forty wrest-pins. Each one of these is hammered tightly into a hole
drilled in the plank. Each one therefore is like a wedge—and there are two hundred and forty of them.
Look how close they are.
When the wires (or “strings”) are attached, each wedge becomes in addition a lever. 'Two hundred
and forty icedge levers in a single wooden plank!
The direct pull of the strings, tuned to concert pitch, totals thirty tons. No wooden plank can
stand such a wrenching, bursting strain for long, not even though it is made of several plies of selected
timber. Consequently the pins, which ought to be immovable, are turned backwards by the pull of the
strings, and the piano is out of tune.
That is why imported Grand pianos have to be re-tuned before each concert.
But the frequent tuning is very harmful, for the constant turning of the pins backwards and forwards
makes them ever looser. So the trouble goes on from bad to worse, and soon the piano must be discarded
for concert use.
But in the Beale Australian Pianos, upright as well as horizontal, the wrest-pins
are contained entirely in a solid iron plate, a part of the usual iron frame. The pins are under perfect
control. They will carry any desired strain, for any length of time. Therefore frequent tuning is
unnecessary.
You see, then, how the Beale Pianos will endure for generations. We guarantee each and every one
for Twenty-five Years.
If you are interested, let us send you further particulars. There are many other points of superiority
about the Beale Australian Pianos. Our Catalogue is not only free, but we shall be pleased if you will ask
for it.
“THE OED COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 George Street, Sydney.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.;
837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0.,
Brisbane (our only address in Queensland).
BRANCHES AND TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.


APPROPRIATENESS in Wedding Gifts
FINDS tHe truest expression of
Usefulness and Beauty in . . . ,
A. SAUNDERS* TABLE SILVER.
|V
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER and TOAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated Nickel Silver,
White Crystal Glass Dish.
15/6.
. Other Styles, 1076, 12/6, 15/.
SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
You can confidently
rely on our Up-to-
Date Mail Order De-
partment to serve
you promptly and
satisfactorily.
No matter where
you live, we send all
goods CARRIAGE
FREE, which means
a big saving to you.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE,
Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved,
Fern Design, Gilt Lined, with Covers.
£2/15/.
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5.
BELOW we present a few designs
of A 1 quality—a quality that as-
Life-long SATISFACTION,
stires
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
illustrates over 3000
designs in Watches,
Clocks, Jewellery,
Silver Plate, Leather,
and Optical Goods.
Write for a copy
to-day. You’ll receive
it by return mail,
free, and postage paid.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND
and SIFTER, Pure Silver-Plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Gilt Lined.
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, £2, £2/10/.
v A. SAUNDERS.
i$K BUTTER KVIFU, Pure Silver-Plated,
<f . .Nickel Silver, ,VI Quality, Richly Engraved,
2/6.
Other Styles,. 2/, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRIBBACrE BOARD and
CARD' DRAWER,
English Oak,
Pure Silver-PSa-ted Mounts..
15/6
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
■CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated,
Richly Engraved and Embossed,
> ' Size, 9£in. x 9Jin.
J. 35/.
i; Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 3(1/,
:|!l 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TABLE CENTRE, Four Branch,
Pure Silver-Plated. Biohly Embossed,
Ruby-tinted Glass Tubes.
30/.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 40/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Richly Embossed.
3/6.
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, 4/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Nickel Silver, Al Quality,
Green or Rubv Tinted Glass.
20/.
Other Styles, 12/6, 16/, 20/, 25/.
SALT SHAKER,
Pure Silver Top,
Fine Cut Crvstal Glass.
3/6.
salt pourer
to Match, 3/6.
fj ■
English oak biscuit barrel,
China Lining,
Pil¥e' Silver-Plated Mounts.
12/G.
AT Quality, 20/.
A. SAD M DEBS.
A. SAUNDERS.
£44/
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE Pure Silver-Plated , n White Metal, comprising Tea, Coffee Suaar and
, c . . ./ 6a ?V Rlchl y Engraved, Gilt-lined, with Covers. ’ ’
Other Styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5.
£4/4/
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Three Bottle, Pure Silver-Plated,
Cut Crystal Glass Bottles.
15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
h.
/
1
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed
and Pierced, Fine Cut Orystal Glass Bishu
20/.
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, SO/,
„ ' A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak SALVER, Pure Silver-Plated, Mounts
and Fittings, A 1 Quality, Ball Feet, Size 20in.
£2.
Other Styles—
-12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/, SO/, 35/, 40/, to £6/10/.
A ‘ SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE DISHES, with
SER\ ERS, Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Satin Glass Lining.
£2/10/.
Other Styles, 30/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
saßaai
TV
V>
1
SS.OJ
fli
i
a
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FRAME, Carved English Oak,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts,
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Bottles.
£3.
Other Styles, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK, Thistle Design,
Pure Silver-Plated, Pierced Base.
6/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6,. 12/6.
V'
A,
BUTTER DISH, Shell Design,
Pure Silver-Plated, A 1 Quality,
Satin Glass Lining,
15/6.
Other Styles—
-10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOTWATER KETTLE and STAND
Pure Silver-Plated,
A 1 Quality.
Rustic Stand.
Plain, 35/-.
Richly Chased, £2.
Other Styles—
£2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
SALT and Ptii-w{ STAND,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Crystal Glass Cellar.
10/6.
Ff
SUGAXt BASIN and TONGS,
Pure Silver-Plated, ’
Satin Finished, Gilt Lined.
12/6.
■
SA
BW
ft#
’ A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver-
A 1 Quality,
Fine Cut Crystal Glass Bottles.
£3.
Other Styles-
-30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.W.


UAVHIA,
Is the only Piano Player that can interpret all the works of the
great masters as written, it having a full compass of 72 NOTES.
This extended range does away with the necessity of mutilation required
for players with a shorter compass.
The Claviola Artist Music Rolls are absolutely unique and without
parallel—they are electric records, note by note, of the ACTUAL
PLAYING of the World’s Greatest Pianists, and are perfect renditions
of the classics.
Other important features of the Claviola are: —*
Special Levers for Phrasing and Melody Accentuation.
Brass Tubing and Leather Bellows throughout.
No Perishable Rubber used.
Our Library, comprising thousands of rolls of music, is available to
purchasers on payment of a small annual subscription.
The Claviola can be bought on easy terms, and we issue a special
invitation to any lady or gentleman interested to call and play their
favorite composition —we promise them a revelation.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO THE. SOLE AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
270 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.
338 George Street.
CONSTIPATION, RHEUMATISM & GOUT
Eradicated by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
Prof. I. N. Love, M.D.
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical
Diseases, Marion-Sims College of Medicine ,
and College of Physicians and Surgeons),
WROTE :
“The great surgeon, Professor Lawson
Tait, M.D., himself a sufferer from a gouty
diathesis, for years found Kutnow’s Powder
of great value to himself personally and in
his practice. Kutnow’s Powder stimulates
the activity of the bowels and kidneys. It
cleanses the bowels, acts as a diluent, and
flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory
way. Thorough elimination is salvation,
and there is no better eliminator than
Kutnow’s Powder. I. N. LOVE, M.D.
CUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
There is only One Genuine Kutnow’s
Powder; it can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the World. See that
the fac simile signature, “S. Xutnow
and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade
mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer
Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You
then get
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
Hospital Nurse
WRITES:
“ Q 4 Westbourne Park Road ,
“ Bayswater, W.,
“ 27th August, 1907.
u Sirs, A short time ago you sent
me a bottle of Kutnow's Powder. I
write to say that I have found it
extremely beneficial in cases of
constipation , also haemorrhoids.
Some of my patients have used
Kutnow's for rheumatism , and they
also testify to its excellent qualities.
“ Yours truly ,
x
“ISABEL A. MUDD, C.M.8.,
“ Queen Charlotte’s Hospital.”
J. A. ASHTON, Esq.,
WRITES :
“ Dukinfield, Cheshire,
“29th August, 1907.
“ Dear Sirs, —I regret to state that my
wife has been laid up for over six weeks now.
Our trouble at the commencement of the
illness was the task of removing constipation.
I suggested that, as your preparation was
always effective in ordinary times, she should
be allowed to have it. The doctor con-
sented, and I am pleased the difficulty has
been removed. lam delighted to inform you
of this ; it has relieved me considerably at
this anxio'iS time. —Yours faithfully,
“ J. A. ASHTON, A.N.S.A., F.1.P.5.”
MAJOR S. K. COWAN
(3rd ROYAL IRISH RIFLES)
WRITES :
“ 121 Haring Kade, Scheveningen,
“ Holland, 11th Jan., 1907.
“Gentlemen, —Owing to literary
calls my life is somewhat sedentary,
and after a hard day’s work 1 used to
feel fagged and fatigued, and sleep was
frequently broken and belated. Four
months ago I began to take Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am pleased to state that
I can now work strenuously without
any ill-effect, and sleep follows natur-
ally. Your powder is without doubt
refreshing and invigorating, and an
excellent nerve bracer. —Yours truly,
“ S. K. COWAN,
“(Major 3rd Iloyal Irish Rifles).”
KUTNOW’S POWDER removes all pain i


Carry a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy in your hand-
luggage when travelling. It cannot be procured
on board the train or steamship.*
A bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy in the house will save
doctors’ bills.*
The Lone Hand.
The Official Organ of
Australian Optimism!
APRIL NUMBER, NOW IN THE PRESS,
CONTAINS s
PAGE
The Golden Fleece —(in Colors)—Tom Roberts - - -Frontispiece
Our Military Forces — No. I.: The N.S.W. Field Artillery — (lllustrations
by Douglas Fry) • s^l
The Future Australian Capital on the Snowy —Lionel Lindsay - 592
Explorations in Industry —No. 11. : The Factory Girl —(Illustrations by
D. H. Souter) —Beatrix Tracy -------- 593
Two Battlers and a Bear— The Plan of Simon Ham — (lllustrations by
“Hop”)-—Edward Dyson --------- 601
The Beauty Quest 607
L. Bernard Hall —Lionel Lindsay - 613
The Experiences of Clarence : V.—The Political Woman—(lllustration
by Geo. W. Lambert) —Arthur H. Adams - - - - - - 619
The Bishop's Brother —(lllustrations by Lionel Lindsay)—P. E. Quinn - 628
The Big Five —(lllustrations by Lionel Lindsay)—Ambrose Pratt - - 630
The Editorial Finger Prints - - - 637
Alice —(lllustrations by Alek Sass) —G. A. Alcock ..... 640
A Matter of Bounce— Frank P. Mahony 643
The Bear and the Basket - - - - 644
An Afternoon Call —(Illustrations by Alek Sass) —Ethel Turner - - 645
A Great City’s Thirst— George A. King 655
Pessimism —A. R. Blackmore 658
A Darling River Romeo —(lllustrations by Alek Sass) —“Jimmie Pannikin ” 659
The Forest Garden —(Decoration by Hans Heysen)—Roderic Quinn - - 662
Black Trackers —A. Meston 664
The Daughter of Praxiteles— (lllustration by B. E. Minns)—P. E. Quinn 666
For the Public Good 671
A Siren of the North— (lllustrations by Jack Sommers)—S. W. Powell - 677
Me Old Black Billy an’ Me— (Decoration by Frank P. Mahony) — Louis
Esson 684
Life and Letters—
Countess Mathieu de Noailles ... 685
Mimes and Music —
Australian Notes—Stargazer 690
London Notes—Leon Brodzky 692
The Judicious Thief xxxiv.
HE LONE HAND, closing a years
A career glowing with success, is, of all its
achievements, most gratified that it has been
able to establish a link between Australians
abroad and their Home country. The lists
of subscribers in the South Sea Islands, in
Asia, Africa, America, and Europe seem to
suggest that almost every Australian exile
takes The Lone Hand, and finds in it some
consolation for his nostalgia.
From the very centre of darkest Africa, from
out-of-the-way corners of Europe, from North
and South America, from every part of the
Asian littoral come letters saying “ Thanks for
The Lone Hand.”
Extend that good influence by sending to
your friends abroad the Australian magazine.
Now is the time to subscribe, 12s, per annum,
direct to the office or to the nearest news-
agent.
The Hand
214 George Street, Sydney.
The N.S.W. Government Savings Bank
goes two steps further towards becoming a
straight-out, ordinary bank, owned by the State.
Registered friendly societies may now “draw”
by cheque, without producing their pass-books;
and the bank is in future to allow interest on
these societies’ accounts, even though they be as
much as £lO,OOO in credit. On the public’s de-
posits, however, interest still stops short at £2OO.
The dreadful sloth of Tait’s trains continues
to drive the people of Victoria to a modified form
of insanity. There are in Victoria fearsome trips
like that from Sea Lake to Melbourne (238 miles)
done at less than 15 miles an hour. And even
this train is swift by comparison with others—
there are lots of 10 and 12 and 13 miles-per-hour
trips in the bright lexicon of the Canadian person
with the eternal cigar in his face. Unless the
imported dreamer gets a move on him, the State
may yet get so mad that it will kick his cigar box
into the middle of next century.
Things keep looking up with the white-
grown sugar industry in Queensland. In 1907
there were 4080 cane-growers who used white
labor only, against a mere 500 employers of the
be!ated nigger. Nearly 29,000 white men are now em-
ployed in the sugar business, and about 6000 niggers.
The very superior Tory person, who, afew years ago,
smiled a pitying smile, and said that these poor
ignorant fellows, Lyne, Watson and Co., would
soon realise, through the ruin of the sugar indus-
try, that they had been interfering with matters
far beyond their mental calibre, is pretty silent
about the sugar business now, though he is as
superior as ever in other directions.
“Wanderer,” from Shanghai (10/2/’08) :
Every well-informed European in Hong Kong and
Shanghai knows that the Japs are playing a deep game
in China. There is not the slightest doubt they are
smuggling in arms. Only this week a Jap steamer was
caught off Macao carrying rifles, and another was
stopped with 45 cases of guns aboard, all for a revolu-
tionary party that will be heard of later on. In fact, the
Jap is working up a grand coup. Fancy him ordering off
a British steamer from the wharf at Dalny, a free port,
in order to make way for one of his own boats 1 This he
did last week, and the owners of the English boat (But-
terfield and Swire, Hong Kong) are now in communica-
tion with the Foreign Office about the matter. The cast-
iron bounce of the Nippons will have to be put an end to
by one of the European nations before very long. There
will be a big contract to take on if they are allowed a few
more years to plot and scheme.
In Queensland, where they have the most
complete system of local government in Australia,
the local bodies run most of the local tramways—
really narrow-gauge railways, whose chief business
is to help the cane and fruit growers. One or two
of them are badly managed, but others have been
giving remarkable results since the Kanaka went
and the sugar business began to be “ruined ” by
white labor. The just-published accounts of the
Ayr Tramway Board, which hangs out in Philp’s
district, show that last year on the Government
loan of £78,000 (the whole capital) the net profit
was at the rate of £lO 16s. Id. per cent., or £5 15s.
per cent, more than the interest and sinking fund ;
so an instalment of sinking fund has been pre-
paid—in fact, both interest and sinking fund are
now prepaid 12 months, and the Board is sitting
down comfortably on a handy credit balance.
The S.A. “ cockies ” have been wearing
peacock feathers since the success of Vardon, for
they have been persuaded that “alone they did
it.” They bail Vardon up, and tell him that he
is the controlling force in the Senate, and can tip
parties in that House either way, wherefore
they expect much from him. Among other
things they demand that he shall compel the
Federal Government to allow farmers to
put as much wheat into a bag as they
please. They saw in the papers that, on
account of Vardon’s election, the party that was
in the minority is now in the majority, so they
reckon that Vardon is the controlling member;
they don’t see that every other member is just as
much a controlling member as Vardon is. But
Vardon, of course, knows, and he is a very uncom-
fortable Christian in consequence.
From an angry sister :
lam sick of hearing about the Brotherhood of Man. It
is always being advanced by the person who is not a man,
and is undesirable as a brother, in support of his un-
willingness to fight for the country he lives in. At W. M.
Hughes’ address on the need for compulsory military train-
ing, delivered under the auspices of a women’s league,
the other night, one interrupter—from his natural
position at the rear—declared that he owned nothing in
this country, and didn’t feel called upon to defend it.
Apart altogether from the question whether the Brown
Fat Man is a more desirable overlord than the White Fat
Man, this professor of Brotherhood doesn’t concern him-
self with the chance his white sister will take when the
probable Asiatic invasion happens along. He apparently
is of a type that hasn’t yet arrived at the understanding
of sex obligations, and is quite lacking in the instinct of
the healthy male animal which impels it to protect the
weaker ones of its kind. It’s a sad thing when a man can
talk that way in the presence of women and feel no shame.
That fellow is no brother of mine, anyway.
Maoriland’s mad borrowing is already
beginning to hit the foolish country in unex-
pected places. The State isn’t merely issuing
loans in large lumps ; anybody can look in at
almost any Government office at any hour and
add a trifle to the debt. Even in Sydney anybody
can get accommodated the same way ; and in its
own rickety home the Maoriland Post Office
Savings Bank is another State debt-manufactur-
ing agency. The result is that in the last two
years the Maoriland banks’ fixed deposits have
shrunk £132,805; yet there is a steady demand
for more advances—the latter have increased by
£3,765,000 in two years. Of course, if the banks
haven’t got the money they can’t lend it; so dear
money looms ahead, and for the manufacturer and
producer that means trouble.
“ Jericho ” writes :
Re par (B. 20/2/’08) from Vic. resident’s relative in
Canada. Latter said “ the Government seems to be doing
its level best to populate this country with the scum of
tile earth, and we are gradually getting crowded out.”
Dr. N. W. Hoyles, K.C., president of the Canadian Bible
Society, in a recent interview in London, stated there
were about 50 nationalities represented in the Dominion.
He says : “ A significant fact is evident from the statistics
of the immigrants landing in Canada, supplied by the
Department of the Interior, that the less enlightened
races of the Continent of Europe contribute three and a
half times more immigrants than the more progressive
nations. In 1906,10,627 immigrants came from Germany,
France, Belgium, Scandinavia, and Denmark, whereas
36,539 came from the less educated countries, such as
Russia, Italy, and Austria, the last including Galicians,
Bukowinians, Magyars, Bohemians, Croatians, Slavo-
nians, Slovaks, and Austrian Poles. In addition to these,
over 6000 Asiatics entered the country—293o from Japan,
2317 from India. 68 from China, while Armenians,
Arabians, Syrians, Persians, and Turks arrived in smaller
numbers. . . . The Indian population numbers 109,000,
and is increasing.” And, in addition to this mixed mul-
titude, there are large Chinese colonies in Victoria and
Vancouver.
“ Bow ” : Be the Chinaman and other
brown spots, the South African pass laws
would about suit us, and then we would know
where to find John when wanted. Every Chinkie
in South Africa must take out a pass, which gives
all particulars of the holder, including photo-
graphs or thumb impression. This pass is renew-
able every three months, and costs, say, 3s.
Should a Chinaman wish to change his residence,
he must hand in his pass and get a permit to
travel, another pass being issued in the district
where he takes up his abode. These passes can
be examined at any time by an officer of the law
or a pass inspector. I’m just down from the Nor’-
west of this country, and it makes an Australian,
nervous to see the swarms of Chows up that way.
Also it sets him wondering if our Customs Depart-
ment is doing its best to keep out the saffron horde.
As Great Britain makes timid advances
towards “ the creature Protection,” it finds that
the creature pays. The Journal of the Society
of Arts (3/l/’08) records:—
The new patent law requiring the production of
patented articles in English works is having the antici-
pated effect in bringing German color manufacturers to
this country.
Thus a lost industry begins to come back. By
patent laws which require that patent articles
must be manufactured in England, or else no
English patent will be granted upon them, by
regulations for the exclusion of undesirable aliens,
and by laws which tend to shut foreign seamen
out of British ships per medium of an Education
Test, Britain creeps soft-footedly towards Protec-
tion. It still talks absolute Freetrade, but it
stealthily sneaks away from the falling temple of
its Joss.
“ F. A.R.” : What is the all-pervading Ma
State (if we can judge her by the Sydney daily
papers) like unto ? Verily she is like unto a female
of a kind occurring more and more frequently,
whose imagination leads her into accusing promis-
cuous persons of. assaults, batteries, and ruins of
the most heinous type. When questioned by the
gentle, unimaginative police officer, she gets
tangled in her “facts,” and finds immense difficulty
in remembering what happened at all. But she
is full of vague charges. In the case of the lady
State under review, she screams that she is a
respectable married, harried person, and a mother
of six, and it’s a shame she is chivvied about in
this shocking way (shocking way not disclosed),
and finally trails off to invent a new story, while
an unfeeling audience laughs at the poorold thing.
The oration of “ Harrison O ” :
Stop ! Look !! Listen 111 Hear !!!! Attend 111!!
Hearken '!!!!! Hark to what befell and behappened and
became the torn and bleeding State of New South Wales
after the political decease of the defunct and busted Car-
ruthers. Great man, Carruthers! Oh Heaven 1 Oh
Hell 1 Paradise, Tophet, Jerusalem, Sheol, Jericho, Hades
and all the worlds known only to Bernard O’Dowd ! Will
we grovel in the dust—which is the property of the City
Council—like mean, ignoble beetles or diminutive bugs ?
No ! Nay 1 Never ! Rather will we awake and arise and
arm and call out the Masons and the fire-brigades, and de-
mand our Rights. Our R-r-rights ! We will paddle
through the swirling torrents of the never-was Cotter
Creek to obtain ’em. We will exceed the speed limit!
We will board the trams while in motion ! We will smoke
in non-smoking compartments 1 We will expectorate in
the Snowy River ! We will throw bread-crumbs through
the windows of Parliament House! We will make much
speeches ! We will be a devil of a fellow ! We will have
our Rights, even at the price of gore ! Of lovely red
ber-lud ! We will appeal unto Seize-Her! Yea, even
unto the bald-headed blokes who sit in mighty majesty
upon the Bench of the High Court! We will drown
our enemies in the occasional pools of the some-
times Cotter Creek ! There is nothing so impossible
as the mathematical unattainable? Ye lie ! I repeat,
sir, _ the hon. member lies! We will invoke the
genius of the blanky Constitution 1 By the Blood of the
Prophet, and Greid, Spruce Myth, G. Wade and every
precious insect who weeps o’er the corpse of the has-was
Carruthers—we’ll SECESHI Bellum habeas Corpus
Wadus rex pro bono public-houseo, to arms, brothers !
To ar-r-ms ! What? Compulsory Service? Well, never
mind, nulli secundus, it is in a holy cause. We’ll march
upon the capital with Wade at our head, crying, “ New
South Wales and our Rights, and Australia be damned I’
“ C.K.Y.” : Far more interest in our dis-
trict (N.S.W.) over the Shire elections than those
for the State. No one here is very clear as to
what the State Parliament is for. We shouldn’t
miss it if it was wiped right out. We don’t know
when it is sitting, or read what it says. Now the
Shire concerns our roads, the tracks before our
doors, the creek crossings that want bridges, and
the gutters that are sighing for a culvert apiece.
These are problems of every day, and we are
interested. If the State bosses have any powers
left, why not divide them up between the Shires
and the Federal Houses, and save the useless
expense and frill ?
“Two Seas ” writes :
Unless the unpremeditated crime of being born in this
country is a disqualification, Mr. H. M. Hamilton’s claim
upon that long-considered appointment of an extra Dis-
trict Court Judge can scarcely be set aside. Few of the
gentlemen who decorate their learned craniums with the
tail of the defunct cab-horse, are as well qualified for the
position as H.M.H. So far as my memory serves, he first
won the esteem of all good democrats in the back-blocks,
by his brilliantdefence of the shearers, whokicked hard, but
not too wisely, against organised Fat in the stirring times
of the early nineties. In the then excited state of public feel-
ing, following upon theMomba and Wanganella “ riots,” it
required a strong man to take up the unpopular side, and
successfully defend men who were judged by the daily
papers before the trial commenced. But Hamilton was
equal to the task, and his able argument for the defence
at Deniliquin, Broken Hill, and Darlinghurst—at a time
when no point was missed that would help to inflame the
public mind against his clients—turned the verdict in
favor of most of them. For some eight years past he has
done good work as an Acting Judge, and is well and
favorably known from Narrabri to Moree, in the north-
western district of N.S.W., from Orange out to Hillston,
in the west, and from Goulburn, to Turnut in the
south, whilst, up in the far north, in the dairy coun-
try, Hamilton, as an Acting Judge, is re-
garded as second only to the great goddess Cow.
Ever courteous and considerate to the jury, and patient
with the most exasperatingly stupid Witnesses, whom he
allows no legal bullies to harry, Hamilton’s name is one
to conjure with among the badgered back-blocks jurymen,
who have been compared to “ nincompoops ” and other
fearsome fowl by Judges, acting and otherwise, who are
cursed with hobnailed livers.
I can speak feelingly of legal livers. I once rode fifty
odd miles on a rough track, beneath a wicked sun, to
“ well and truly try and true deliverance make between ’
Our Sov. Lady Queen Victoria ” and a mere common bloke
who had borrowed a tin of baking-powder from his
employer’s camp, and all I got for my pains and public
spirit in trying to heal the unpleasantness between the
lady and the bloke was a public accusation of being some
new brand of ass—because, like the rest of the jury, I
knew more about the merits of the case than the Judge
with the unworkable liver.
Mr. Hamilton has scored as acting Parliamentary
draftsman. He was for three years draftsman of the
Statutes Consolidation Commission. He did a turn as a
Royal Commissioner during the municipal squabbles at
Wyalong, put in some good work on the Barristers’
Admission Board, and also as Examiner for the Horse-
hair Brigade and the Sydney University, aind filled in his
leisure time writing his book on the “ Crimes Acts ”
which is acknowledged by all the legal lights who can put
their borrowed hair on straight and hitch their frocks up
gracefully, as the standard work on the subject in N.S.W.
Lastly, Hamilton’s father was the first man to import a
prize Hereford bull and a Presbyterian parson into N.S.W.


)
*
*5
§5
rf
< —“H
EEaSa^/i
uE
■«
*
«*
0
*
#
B
B
41
♦
%
0
%
0
9
A
r
**r
PNE
V
£
•577
C
u
£
o
n
u
'C
3c^
H
CONTINENTAL
MOTOR TYRES
The “Square Tread” Feature is distinctive of “ Continentals it alone
puts them in a class of their own.
Continental Detachable Rims.
The Success of two seasons thoroughly tried. Detached and re-fitted in 5 Minutes.
The Continental C. 3D. G. Rubber Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne—46-48 MarKet Street. Sydney—Clarence Street. Adelaide—Grenfell Street.
Brisbane—Adelaide Street. Perth—King Street.


Shocking Humour on Arms, Hands,
and Body—When Scratched
Pimples Became Bleeding Sores
—Could Not Sleep from Itching
—Suffered Five Months.
CURED IN A FORTNIGHT
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
“I was first affected on the arms and
hands and between the fingers, and then
nearly all over the body. It first broke
out in small pimples which filled with
water. Sometimes it was matter, and
they itched so much that I could not
sleep night or day. As soon as I got
warm in bed the itching was dreadful.
I could not help scratching, and then
they would bleed until they were like
sores. It was like this over five months.
I had a physician after I had it for
weeks and he told me it was a skin
disease called eczema. He told me to
have a bath in hot soda water every
day, or twice a day, for three weeks,
and he said I would be well by then.
I did it for a fortnight, no more, for it
nearly sent me mad with the smarting
of it. I tried lots of things after that
which cost me pounds. It is now over
eight months since I first had it, and
now I have not one spot on me.
“I was reading the paper one Sunday
and saw of a case cured by Cuticura,
and my father advised me to get some. I
got two shilling tablets of Cuticura Soap
first and one box of Cuticura Ointment.
That is all the Cuticura Ointment I had,
but I had five tablets of Cuticura Soap in
all. I had a bath every morning and
night for a month and in a week all the
scabs came off and left small purple spots,
and in a fortnight every one was gone.
Now it is all new skin and no one would
think how dreadful it was.
“I am thankful to you, as I might
have gone on for months in torture;
now I can sleep from night till morning
and never wake. Mrs. Caves, Long St.,
Hanslope, June 21, 1906.”
CUTICURA TREATMENT
Complete external and internal treat-
ment for every humour, consists of Cuti-
cura Soap to cleanse the skin, Ointment
to heal the skin, and Pills to purify the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to
cure the most torturing, disfiguring,
itching, burning, and scaly humours,
from infancy to age, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Depots; London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns & Co., Sydney; Lennon,
Cape Town, etc.; Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props. »3“Post-free, Cuticura Book on the Skin.
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877-
“DREADNOUGHT”
WATCH.
GUARANTEED IN WRITING FOR 12 MONTHS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
10-
/
N
MELBOURNE
W
i
%
The “Dreadnought” is an exceptionally strong,
polished steel cylinder watch, with high-grade
jewelled movement, with nickelled dome, "it is
wound up and the hands set without opening the
case by the latest keyless mechanism. You can have
the case either GUNMETAL or NICKEL. Both are
practically dust-proof, and have a strong bevelled
crystal glass face. Every watch thoroughly tested
and regulated before being offered for sale, and
guaranteed in writing for 12 months. Sent post free
anywhere for 10/-
Your money returned in full if you are not satisfied.
Write for Catalogue, Post Free.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
115,000
The WaybacK Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeus laughing. Bed Harry Is.
FAT PEOPLE
LET US CURE YOU OF OBESITY
AND REMOVE YOUR EXCESS
CX
FAT
TT7K have cured many
W thousands of obesity
sufferers. We have the
only non-poisonous and
harmless remedy
ever known.
“FAVCURE”
acts mildly, gradu-
ally and effectively.
No matter whether
the fat has attacked
your hips, stomach, or breasts, “ Fatcure” will
hunt it out and remove it. The remedy and treat-
ment are the results of years of careful study, and
are absolutely perfect. Not the least harm can
resu t from its use, and its power to do good is
unlimited. . . . From five pounds a week to
over two stone a month has been successfully re-
moved with perfect health following the reduc-
tion. . . . Send two pence in postage stamps
and let us send you a Free Sample and our
Booklet under sealed cover and free from prying
eyes. Our remedy is certain, and no successful
imitation has ever been created. CAnnot be had
of chemists. Write or call for Sample.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Entrance also from Market Street. Take lift. [l3
Hot or Cold Liquids remain
so in Thermos Bottles*
THERMOS
PAT[NT
PRICES—PINTS from 215.; QUARTS from 425.
Posted anywhere, Is. and Is. 6d. extra.
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists
Military Men, Excursionists, etc. No need to
boil the “ billy.” Take your tea or other liquid
refreshment with you, and simply pour out
Hot or Cold as desired.
THOS. WEBB & SONS,
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
This Lady s Smart
Walking Shoe - « 17/6
The stylish Lace Shoe h'ef'e pictiirecl is especially de-
signed for walking duVing the autumn and winter
weather. Of 'dur&bl'e leather, it has smart patent caps
and facings, and the well-known Cuban heel. A shoe of
ready first-grade quality this. Price 17/6. Add 9d. for
postage if ordering in Victoria—l/- from any
other State.
Drop us a Post Card for our Booklet “Shoe-
light,” beautifully illustrated with our
finest footwear. We send it FREE.
LEE MING’S Boot Stores
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 1 & 3 Errol Street
North Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
A CURED WOMAN
Relates her Intense Sufferings—how Doctors
Failed to do her any Good. She Finally Tried
Clements Tonic
Which Makes Permanent Cure.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Here is a narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us by
he l enTivi'nl’fn f ¥ yrtle ; st \ eet ’ Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address, where
v^hich’appears^hereunci^:— 6Ven °" r SpeC “‘ w„ granted the taw-
“lt is thirteen years since I had the illness you refer to. It doesn’t seem half so lons' asm for
everything is as fresii in my memory as though it was only yesterday ” “ “ “ g g ’
Were you experiencing any physical pain? ”
somethin* dreadfS Ik Rieht aornS to 6 , h u ad neuralgia in the head ? I hope not, for it was
top of my head, the JXiS,“A* 6 "” 5 ' 8 ‘° other and up to the
—well, they felt as if they weredouble’the 6 eire't'li'eTfhraiH”'|*, b * d : and ' “ [° r th , e l“ lm S >» m ? «r“
choly days they were ! I’m sure I felt mvself to hi ' VG en * , * desolate, melan-
audl thfok I had oecas.ou to he? LWfM «*
( Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote
me was to give ju™ now aftd'Jhen^bStt!,^ 6 ™ 1 ? nd . the most they COuld d ° fOT
trifle better one day, I wassireto fedten n ° thm s about it, and if I.felt a
ineffective, was always disagreeable to take. A strange th\ next ’ the medicine, besides being so
drowsy and exhausted—as if I was only fit to no" snmputL™ . n ®>, as .that I felt always so lyorn-out,
an effort to sleep, do you think I could ? Notfa bit of it l 1 ® down and die—yet, when I made
through, and when at last I dosed off the dreams I had were faK* “ d tUrn th ® wh ° 6 night
for you A r 70U C ° Uldn * g6t Permanent rell6f fr ° m thes « symptoms through the medicine prescribed
the best’remedy I ever havin'^ly^liL^tocT™ t 0 d ° "if good - Clements Tonic it was, and
else I had taken, for instead of only easing me a Wh n fc a sh ° W made of ever y th,n S
infirmities, and lifted them out by the roots ' In addition'T° na il 7’ r,fdlt to tbe base of my
state that I was highly nervons-nobody couid be more so r T baV f, alr / ady told you ’ 1 raUSt
house by myself, and was continually worrying mvself ahnni li act l ually afraid to stay in my own
happen. Trouble was always hanging over me andlLSt th l n gf lhat 1 imagined were going to
I had been taking Clements Tonic for a smoe of tJm«> COU u* n * tbe ldea 9 ut oi m y head—not until
over such silly things, and my mind became u ie ’ w “? n ’ Qmte mysteriously, I ceased brooding
altered woman Clements TonXide me the day ‘ 0h ! * .was wonderful what an
and cheerful as possible—nothing frightened me aJri being anxl °us and timid all day, I got as happy
so many nervous women that I deem it mv dutv’to « , n f rves wer ;e steady. It is because I know
that complaint, though, for that matter, it wasPeauallv benefT • S^'® ndld C eme . d y Clements Tonic is for
pains down the small of my back and about- mu i J bene , a l to me in other ways. I used to get
my heart, which made me'think that something Verv^ der - S ’ also Palpitation and pains in the region of
Tonic showed itself to be such a nain-remoufnn. 6 y k e . n °ns was wrong with me there; but Clements
sufferers. Its regulatinginfluences on the hoart medl ®m that I can faithfully recommend it to all
and peaceful the same remedy was the on] v ™tft Xtr vu rdinary ’ a . nd for mak ing one’s sleep sound
months before, for plenty of people told mp wl, ,t-° meet y itb requirements. I wish I had used it
can do is to assist my neighbors to throw off their^fflto 1 - medlcme Clements Tonic was. The least I
any manner you like.” r amic tions, so you may publish my experiences in
conscientiously believing the 6 8a?ua n to’h« y t- , r,« itho S t v W ®^ ;yin * r any toymen! ; and I make
—. - u -- J 6 saiue t 0 be true . and yijrtue of the revisions of the Oaths
(subscribed and declared at Petersham this fifth pi o , . (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG,
before me, y ot one thousand nine hundred and four,
■< TL EVANS. J.P., ,
The Inky Way.
Wellington (M.L.) Dominion came out with a great
flourish of trumpets over the Webb-Tresidder race. In a
column of enthusiasm that teemed with remarks about
moving with the times, journalistic enterprise, and other
high falutin expressions, it announced that two motor
cars, bearing a special Wanganui Webb-Tresidder edition
would leave Wellington about midnight and reach Wan-
ganui in time to distribute the papers before breakfast on
the morning of the race. Then the Dominion people
made the blunder that beginners with motors
usually make, and tried to make a racehorse do the
work of a draught. To keep the promise of the
flourish it would be necessary to travel many miles an
hour over bad roads and round hideous curves. And
one of the cars sent out on this contract was
loaded up with seven adults and about a ton of Dominions
Trouble began immediately. The first car broke down
within a mile of the office, while the other staggered on
for a while, and finally came to grief, like the swine of
Gadara, by rushing violently down a steep place. Unlike
the swine, it went down backwards, and brought up
amidst a deluge of newspaper matter. With the aid of a
bullock team, or some such accessory, it was extricated
and once more resumed its weary race against time. At
half-way, it was six hours late, and, as writer has not
heard of its arrival, he presumes it is toiling still
* • * *
Edwin W. Webb, who now draws a pension from the
Adelaide Advertiser, of which he was sub-editor for some
time, was a member of the syndicate that once owned the
Melbourne Age. Webb was a reader on the Advertiser
when Ben Hoare, chief leader-writer of the Age was’a
compositor in that office, and R. S. Smythe was leader of
the literary staff.
* * « *
The reporter who interviewed Kipling when—an un-
known writer, commissioned to write travel-letters to the
Allahabad Pioneer—he struck San Francisco, records in
the American Bookman how Kipling struck him. San
Francisco didn’t recognise Kipling as a genius didn’t
recognise him at all. “During the fortnight or so
of his stay in San Francisco I saw much of
Kipl.ng, and heard more, for the rather convi-
vial set of men-about-town who took him in tow-
seemed to revel in the novelty of him, and they recounted
with delight the various ways in which they had 1 strung’
him. They told him yarns—ancient, shrivelled ones
baggy at the knees ; tales known everywhere except at
Allahabad—and these he afterwards related in his book
as new stories. His innocence, as manifested by his art-
less questions, was a source of infinite joy to these reck-
less raconteurs, and inspired them to outdo themselves
for his edification. But, on his own side. Kipling has
told some yarns in his Notes that compare quite favor-
ably with those told by the Californians, while they are
almost as moss-grown.” Nobody recognised as a
genius, and Kipling was disappointed in California", and
wrote such nasty things of San Francisco and of its
bohemian Club that some farewell verses he had written
in tliat clubs album were angrily torn out Also it is
rumored that a local editor rejected two of Kipling’s Mul-
vaneyMSS. This account recalls the legend of the pressman
who was sent to interview Kipling on his arrival in Wei-
lington (Maoriland). The dog-reporter found an entry in
the a s si^nm e nt book against his name, “ Interview Rud-
wm? r K k " IK ' he do^-r< ?P° rter hadn’t the least idea
Wa , S ’ and 0n mee . tln £ Kipling in the company of
a rival reporter, accompanied the two all over the town
answering Kipling’s incessant questions, and at inten als
agonisingly whispering to the other pressman, “ Who the
devil w Kipling?” It was only when the dog-reporter-
who had a vague idea that Kipling was an Indian Member
of Parliament or an Auckland alderman, or the fourth-
ly® a tra T p ,® teanier > and who dismissed him with a
—read the rival reporter’s enthusiastic column
the co?n k cob V ab ° Ut thelittle man with the spectacles and
MAKERS OF HISTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Argus and the Telegraph, the Herald and the Age,
Are busy writing History on every solemn page
(And when it isn’t History it’s Mystery) ;
They prophesy, and speculate, and theorise and prate,
And dogmatise, and criticise, and pompously orate—
Their attitude implies “ Creation altered while you wait! ”
They daily curse the Commonwealth and magnify the
State,
And blast the Socialists with curses blister}',
Or laud the futile acts of some Consistory.
The Argus shines at history—it’s very bright indeed !
Its stories of the Empire are the things we love to read
(And when it’s not the Empire it is Cricket!);
When Fitchett isn’t telling us the tale of Waterloo,
Or how the British Brickbat beat the Yankee Gazaboo,
Macdonald clambers forward to explain why Hill
made two,
And why whisky in the water spoils the wicket ;
Then the Argus round a diagram will stick it !
Evenin’ Herald —Evenin’ Herald ! How it revels in red
Gore !
It may get a dozen murders, but it always howls for more j
(And when it isn’t Murder it’s Instruction);
There’s a picture of the cellar where the battered body
lay,
And a photo of the constable who found the blood-stained
tray,
Or else it is a leader from the pen of Colonel Reay
(We guess this by the process called “ deduction ”)
Explaining how the spider lives on suction ;
And a summary of every foreign ruction.
Let us shift the scene to Sydney ; here’s the Daily Tele-
graph,
The George Washington of papers, that can’t tell a lie bv
half:
It’s a most religious journal—l must ask you not to
laugh
(And when it’s not Religion it’s a Wrong !)
There’s a page of green and yellow, and a portrait of the
Pope :
And it wants free importation of a coil of hangman’s rope
As “ a manufactured article beyond Australia’s scope ” ;
While, as a rule, the leader starts—“ How long
Shall we groan beneath this wicked Melbourne throng . . ? ”
And the dear old Morning Herald—’tis the bright and
morning star
Of the timid Anti-Socialists who don’t know where they
are ! J
(And when it isn’t Socialism it’s Soil)
It’s a whale on cultivation and a hero on manure ;
That we’re going to the D 1 it is absolutely sure ! .
(It never prints that naughty word because it is too
pure);
All the wicked schemes of Labor the “ community ”
must Foil,
While “ conceding lawful rights to horny-handed sons
of toil,”
And to make this earth a heaven things should all be
labelled “Royal.’’
Next the Evening News—that solace of the shopkeeper and
clerk—
With its “grievance ” of the capital and yarn about the
shark
(And when it isn’t Shark it’s a Sensation !),
With a touch of bilious humor and a sneer that never
fails,
It makes pathetic reference to “plundered New South
Wales.”
For its politics are “ Pitt-street and the big importers’
sales.”
Much it cares about Australia or the Nation !
And it wouldn’t mind a Black or Brown relation !
There are others, like the Courier, of Brisbane and the
Star,
That milk-and-water paper with its “ Please don’t go too
far ! ”
(And when it isn’t Freetrade it’s Protection.)
Now what the People want to know, and what Australia
asks
Is “ Can such papers help us to perform the mighty tasks
Which face us; or are they just empty, hollow-sounding
casks
Re-echoing the knock of each small section ?
Or do they hold a spirit fit to fill the Future’s flasks 1 “
The point is one for national reflection.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


The Only Possible Way
To get “ Up a Tree ” with
a Kodak is to take the
Kodak up with you,
because Kodaks are honestly and scientifically built and never
miss fire, make mistakes, or “play up’’ with their owners.
No Dark Room is required, all the details of picture-
making being carried out in Daylig'Ht.
The only precaution necessary is to see that you get an
Eastman Kodak,
and not an imitation. For—
“lf it isn’t an Eastman it isn’t a Kodak.”
£
4
The J-plate size F.P.K.
is now - £4 ss.
and the Post Card size
F.P.K. is now £5 ss.
under the revised tariff.
Call or send for new and beautifully-illustrated Catalogues of Kodak, Premo and
Graflex Cameras —free.
Q
m i i
<E!vSp
Sole Agents in Australia
for KODAK LIMITED.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,’
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
These handsome new styles
are all very special value. They
combine the best finish with real
gems and full quality gold. We are
positive that every piece shown here
will be highly prized.
We forward by registered post daily on
receipt of remittance. The most careful
attention to country orders.
TO MAIL ORDER BUYERS—In send-
ing your orders to us you run no
' risk, as the money you send us is
at your disposal, if the goods are not in
every way satisfactory. We are not
satisfied until you are.
Dl277—Fine Diamond, Pearl, and
15ct. Gold Brooch, £ 9/10 /«.
C 3334. —15ct. Gold Brooch, Pearls,
and Australian Rubies, £3/3/«.
F 9278 —18ct. Gold Ring,
Half-Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-.
II 'EH
H 640. —18ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Ruby Ring,
£7/10/..
H 641. —18ct. Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
£7/10/-.
GB9B2.—Fine Diamond,
18ct. i-Hoop Ring-,
£lO/10/-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£7110!-.
mm
H 5274
18ct. R’inv, Diamonds
and Olivine, £215/-
G*27s>3.
18ct. Gold, Ruby, nnd
Opal Ring, £2/7/6.
GB9S4.—Fine Diamond,
18ct. Half-Hoop Ring,
£lB/10/-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£ll/10/-.
■ - ■'
1911.—18 ct. Gold Ring,
set fine Golden Topaz,
£2/5/-.
H 731
Diamonds or Sanphires,
18ct. Gold, £5/15/-.
GB9B6.—Fine Diamond,
18ct. Half-Hoop Ring,
£3O.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£lB/101-.
,« . ' "TBSSS
H 6240
Fine Diamond and
Emerald Ring, £ B/8 /».
C 8829
Five Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3/10/-
.■gjrfU
sgSfleSfi
GB9Bo.—Fine Diamond
Ring, 18et., £5/5/-
If Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3/10/-.
171 A.— 18ct. Gold, Fiva
Fine Opals, £2/10/-.
iiswilifajjjjss.
Hr
G 5296. —Fine Diamond
and Sapphire Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £ lO/10 /-
Dl276.—lSct. Gold, Fine Diamond
and Pearl Brooch, £7/70/-.
C3332.—10ct. Gold Brooch and
Pendant, Pearls and Cape
Rubies, £4//5/-.
C33l4.—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Brooch, £,2j7/6.
C 3312. —15ct. Gold and Beal Pearl Brooch, £2/15/-.
You mav have seen this style of Brooch advertised at a seemingly lower
price, only no quality of gold is mentioned, and the word
‘ paste is omitted before Pearl Set.
C33l3.—Real Pearls and IScc. Gold Brooch, £2/5/-.
08319.—Handsome Bangle, Real Pearls and Sapphires,
15ct. Gold, £7llO/-.
Fs4lV).—Two
Diamonds, Three
Sapphires, 18ct.
Gold, £2.
*
C3324.—Daisy Bangle, Real Pearls, 15ct. Gold, £3/15/-.
, H 1228
i Five Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£5/5/-.
C3322.—Fine Scroll Bangle, -eal Pearls, Turquoise,
and 15ct. Gold, £6/10/-
ORDER BY MAIL , F UNABLE TO CALL. MONEY BACK IF WE FAIL TO PLEASE YOU.
Catalogue* of Watches, Jewellery, Silver and Silver-Plated Goods SENT FREE ON REQUEST.


HIS is the lamb
A
u
%
that Jack owned.
THIS is
LJIS was the fleece so warm and soft, that even in winter
"J"HIS is the big Australian
mill, that stands way
■
down in Marrickville, where
the pure wool from the sheep
will go, to be made into
tweed by Vicars and Co.
■v,
wm
» V ifi
HI ill
ft
*>'‘•4
""THIS is the cutter from London town,
engaged
great renown,
from the
.. v, . >
that was all
that frisked
Jack owned.
by Gowing’s, of
to cut the tweed
Marrickville Mill,
from * the sheep
on the hill that
""THIS is the hard-working country boy,
whose country clothes gave him no joy, who
did a wise and clever deed: he ordered a suit
of Marrickville Tweed from Gowing’s, the firm
! ; 'Tf
of great renown, who brought the cutter from
London town.
"* V
MORAL:
Order at once our Hand - mad e
Australasia. Send for patterns and
GOWING BROTHERS,
486-490 George &
Sydney.


the sheep
he never
•At
U
>
\Xr? vr
*>
*
that grew from the lamb that Jack owned
coughed, while he frisked on the hill
that Jack owned.
'this is the shop of
Gowing Bros., who
bought the tweed before all
others, because it was made
by Vicars and Co., where the
finest Australian wools do go.
JL
i 6°rm
y RADfc MR*
AuSTRM
M
m
r'
Sf
*s^
V
V
i
H
;* '••
yms is the very same boy, indeed, who
bought the suit of Marrickville Tweed of
Gowing’s, the firm of great renown, who make
.
the best clothes in Sydney town.
"THIS is the girl who
the renovated
did the wise and
buying a suit of
Tweed from . .
firm of great re-
the best clothes in
got great joy from
AU
m
\ %
H*
country boy, who
clever deed, of
Marrickville . .
Gowing’s, the
nown, who make
Sydney town.
K
If
'
H
am
if
■#
ifjij
II!
m
'W
V.
A
m
■
Marrickville Suit at 70/-, carriage paid to any part of
self-measurement forms post free to
GO WING BROTHERS,
486-490 Georg'e St.
Sydney.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
fhe Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Brock, Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
~ Bank of north Queensland
(Established 1888. j) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield. (
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
[, and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business
Bank of |) e|U Zealand.
/ SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3NT.S. \7V .
(Hontdepietefl.«|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Tlieatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH S i 74, SYDNEY
AND' AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mkkks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. P. S. Grimwadk,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 181 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
and
agency company limited
412 Colltns-st., Melbourne.
C\PITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors : F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J. M. Prate, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT Tv Y ’ANDS.” bv Edward
“ Best book of Australian humor,
Dvson,
” 4s. Gd,
Shipping.
IM. D. L.
(NOR.D-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND 7th APRIL.
MANILA , .. ..5th MAY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 2nd JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
L1M1TK1K
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £475,041 0 0
Rkskrvk Liability of Shareholders .. 174.350 0 0
Reserve FundHii vested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
£719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoet., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Auenls and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to sail about 11th April.
TROPIC (Cargo only) to sail about
16th April.
RUNIC, to sail about 13th May.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 Co 0 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 Co 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on An plication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
D<i/(/eti/ and ('om ixin't.
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Pli/mouth. and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS .. I R. McKilliam .. I No n. Mar. 27
a DAMASCUS .. IH. A. Sohleman .. I Noon. April 24
*MILTIADES .. IA. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon, May 22
* Twin Screw, a Third Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £b7 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
Dal (jet i / and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
# HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
BURNS, PHILP
CRUISES. C
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
& CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
T
«
j
If yovi are
thirsty
try a
glass
of
(f
4r
i.
©
4?
©
LIME
JUICE.
“MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS -
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
£IA DAY EASILY
Made by live Canvassers, (ladies and gents.) whole or
spare time, selling Household Labor saving Special
Ities, Novelty Farm Tools, Ladies Hat Fasteners,
Cheap and Novelty Watches, Scissors Sharps, Games,
Magic Polish Cloths, Novel Thimbles, Im’n Jewellery
Sets, Music, Medical, Joke Books. Sole Agency
given Success certain. Particulars. Catalog 90 ex-
clusive, fast selling New Lines. Home Rep. Co.
Hunter’s Chambers, George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 'i to 5 Beacon irield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHrl Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding--house in
the Coldnies. Magnificent situation, facing: Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
QEORGE
HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
■
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
X
re
V
*
<O,
N>
S>
S'
5v
£
<r>
S>
8?
§5
S*
fv
w
w
W Tabu:
wf IS the
FMONARCH
• • OE •
Billiard
Tables.
/ /
snipping,
THE ADELAIDE STE AMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). uu '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australia..
Victorian and Queensland Ports
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. y
S.S. Innamincka, p ridlt
March 27. ™
■
S.S. Pilbarra, Saturda,
March 28. "
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, March 25
S.S. Innamincka,April).
Beat unit Cllea/teat Itoute to BoliiliehU
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable JO. , L
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies n,
services subject to conditions, which can beaw»„-
on application at the Company’s Office. rtaine< t
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Aarents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
IyjESSAGERIES ARITIMES
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
Mel.
bourne.
1 p.m.
> W. 190 s,
A Prfl 23 April S
May 21 May
June lSjJuiie
July 16 July
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/- includin'
Table Wines. KKJMWI
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchan
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatlT'redulfetl
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia
TeL 37S - 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY
March 28.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
April 4.
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.ro., SATOB-
DAY, March 28.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
March 31.
BOMBALA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
April 4.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada , United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
ONION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.—S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire*
FOR -
London and Liverpool
(via SUEZ CANAL).
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER,
“SOMERSET”
(CALLING AT HOBART)
11,000 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 10th April
20th^r-:;’ iqog
25th April,
for U.K-
Melbourne
~ ~ ~ Adelaide
Taking Wool, General and Refrigerated Cargo I
and Continent at lowest current rates vd.class
Excellent accommodation for saloon
two-berth deck ca „ „ rr .. —- .
ships. The Third-class accommodation eomptj* - n
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on tn .
Hoot a;.,: ™ Hpek. Eieow
he Saloon accommodation consrst? .j.
cabins on the upper deck, situate®j* j
lird-class accommodation compii*”
ins, all of which are situated on tn
deck, with dining-rooms on the upper deck,
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carne
FARES — pin 10-
SALOON ; fffi.
THIRD-CLASS - £l2/12/- £l3/13/-
Wool and other ce.rgo received at F.H.S. \\harf, ar
Island. Passenge rs ’ luggage on day of sailing on
For full particulars, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO mPANY, LIMITED, 7 Macquarie Fia .
Telephone 58j Managing Agents.


THE GEM OF MONARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
'"formation may be obtained from the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate, Ltd., 117 Pitt Street
llfate Hob’e Pbo 6 N q e w er ’ Tb ° ha, ,? be , rs ' C astlerea S h Street, Sydney ; The Manager, Mount Cooped
hstate, Holt s Flat, N.S.VV. , or The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Makes you look manly
>-
/Ift
1
Before
Guarantee You a Moustache this Year
no matter how little “ down ” is on your upper lip or how you have failed in
the past to grow a moustache.
USE, CAPILLARINE NOW.
A little rubbed on with the fingers each night, and the result will surprise
and please you. YVe have sold it for 25 years, and have never known it to
fail to do what is claimed for it. We will post it to any address in
Australasia for 10/6 in plain wrapper.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
sess
i■■ '
There are Few Pains
this will Not Relieve.
There are few pains and aches
that our Medical Battery will not
relieve or absolutely cure.
THERE is no apparatus so freely ordered
by medical men as an Electric Battery,
and we have the best that can be bought.
It is small, but wonderfully effective. For
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago, this
battery is perhaps the only 7 thing that will
give relief, and it gives it generously. It
can be adapted to the needs of a child, or
the current made strong enough for a man.
For nerve troubles this electric battery is
simply indispensable.
PRICE 35/- POST FREE.
Send for the Battery, or ask for the Booklet which
tells all about it.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORQE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
A GREAT MONEY-MAKING
AMUSEMENT ENTERPRISE!
There is one enterprise that has eclipsed every other amusement
venture as a money-maker : The Amusement Gallery, wherein are in-
stalled automatic amusement machines which perform some function on
the deposit of a coin in a slot in the machine provided for the purpose.
These machines generally operate for a penny, and show pictures,
reproduce songs, tell fortunes, test strength of lungs, muscles, etc.,
vend perfume, post-cards, sweets, etc., and in a variety of ways
amuse the patrons at a small cost.
As there is practically no operating expense except rent, light,
and attendant, 75 per cent, of the money taken in is clear profit
Some of the Galleries make enough net profit in one month to pay
the initial cost. It is not unusual for a Gallery to pay ICO per-
cent. a year on the investment, and many in America have paid'
and are paying, as high as 500 per- cent.
No other amusement enterprise offers a similar opportunity to
make money so quickly or so easily. The proprietor has none of
the usual business cares of heavy invoices to meet, dead stock,
changes of styles, etc. His machines are always good, and few
persons will hesitate to spend a penny or a half-penny for a little
investment.
With seventeen years’ experience in this business, and being the
largest manufacturers of coin-operated machines in the world, we
can give you expert advice on this subject. If you have 1500.00
dol. (about .£3OO sterling) to invest, write us to-clay, and we will send
you complete literature on the subject. Address : Room No. 140 G.
MILLS NOVELTY CO.,
CABLE ADDRESS :
COIN, CHICAGO.
148 E MILLS BUILDING,
CHICAGO) ILL.) XJ.S.A.
HE!
IS Calling
r
y^r
5*3
-tv
l4t
'
*«*>
/ff
.4
S V
,* m?.
&)
vC '
>VC /
V* ' I
a ««i
*.V?
'
E. A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada, United States of America, and Europe.
Agents m Australia _
GIBBS, BRIGHT & C?
ADEUUDB. MELBOURNE, SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
cRCHrm street. QvsiN smier. 37pnrsmiT. cAGiesrmr.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, CSLc.,
forwarded to any address on application. ■£?
Good News for Australian
Lovers of Good Music.
We are now in the happy position of being able to announce a
reduction in the price of the famous Edison Phonographs and Gold-
Moulded Records.
This brings the most wonderful source of entertainment within
easy reach of every citizen of the Commonwealth —an instrument
that; should be in every home in Australia, making merry with its
mirthful songs and thrilling music.
The Edison Phonograph reproduces with wonderful accuracy
every sound intended for reproduction.
With one of these little wonders in the home, and a supply of
Genuine Edison Gold-Moulded Records, you will be able to have an
enjoyable concert any time—without moving from your own home.
Think what it will mean in the long nights soon coming to be
able to sit by the fireside and listen to; the stirring marches played by
the world’s best bands—the beautiful songs of cultured singers, and
the varied programme which an Edison Phonograph can supply.
The Edison Phonographs have been Reduced
in Price.
GEM, now £2 ss. STANDARD, now £4 4s.
HOME, now £6 6s. TRIUMPH, now £lO 10s.
Edison invented the Phonograph, and nothing can equal his
perfect instrument or the Gold-Moulded Records.
It pays to buy the best, and you can easily tell the genuine
Edison by the signature printed on each machine and record.
If you have never listened to a good phonograph, call on a
dealer and ask him to play some selections for you.
If you cut this coupon and post it to us we will forward you the
name of your nearest dealer, and full particulars of records.
Edison Cold-Moulded Records
Reduced to Is. 3d. Each.
The Business
Phonograph
Full particulars of this time-saving business
device will be sent on application. It’s a
wonderful adaptation of the phonograph to
business purposes.
Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Please send me your books of Phonographs
and the latest lists of Genuine Edison Gold-
Moulded Records.
M
Bulletin]
Music for the Multitude.
Buy an Edison Now.


ANDERSON’S
SAFE
HORSE
CURE.
WILL NOT
BLISTER.
Is the finest remedy for Broken Knees,
Sore Shoulders, Flesh Wounds, Burns,
and Scalds, Swellings, Sprains and
Rheumatism.
If not obtainable of Storekeeper or
Chemist, send for sample bottle 2s. 9d.,
post paid 3s. 6d., to Sydney Depot—
-30 P.O. CHAMBERS, PITT STREET.
FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
OOO
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
to take, and, what is of the utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance of
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Brain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent dr threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
“antibilious pills” make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medicine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in completely curing the complaints
named.
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to
4 —more or less as required—taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as an
auxilliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
oOo
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not
obtainable locally, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE. —The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular that a far BETTER
result is obtained from an ordinary
aperient.
CONJURING TRICKS,
PUZZLES, SURPRISE
& JOKE NOVELTIES.
The Look and Laugh Glass.
See the Passing 1
Show. Your friends
grotesquely Photo-
graph e d—s t o u t
people look thin —
thin people look
stout. The Laugh-
ing 1 Camera fur-
nishes all this, and
more. By getting
a focus on passing
pedestrians, horses,
waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures The Laughing Camera.
are witnessed. All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly made, and cannot get
out of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Quite Shocking:, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOGRAPH. —A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having- a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the
pretty picture, and turns the button in the|
confident expectation of seeing something/
interesting, a spring syringe is brought into/
action, and the observer experiences a very |
great surprise. It is very simple to operate, i
cannot get out of order, and can be carried
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue-
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford .Street, Sydney.
is::
U;. ~
liilHlllHmwililn
ilili
ilSg
Btß
“ttanr
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market. Even
our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled. Three
entirely different moves before the purse can be opened.
It is made of superior leather, with inside pocket, and
strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated directions en-
closed. Post free, anywhere, 2/-. Do not miss this
chance of obtaining one of the best and most
useful puzzles ever produced.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
Uhe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
1
LLER
OSTRICH TIPs
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tinned
with White. Pped
Length, 12 Inches
°/ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer von
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Monev
Order payable to John Miller/
Illustrated Price List Free
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt Bt., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE
[Mention The Bulletin.]
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
Weakness Cannot Win
ill the battle of life. Life’s battle is a hard, one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authoritv, has discov-
3*
\\
//
a
\\v
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature's Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments for men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
rnrr
I (ILL
book
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how a.nd
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of vour
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
the mclaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
tOSEPH 11. CORCORAN
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney*
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name...
Address
12
When S. Australia’s Gov. Le Hunte goes
a-banqueting he has to be specially catered for.
Still, it isn’t expensive catering—the fare consists
only of milk. Sometimes he will “ pick a bit,”
but he will drink nothing but what the cow
supplies.
Broken Hill was bailed up by a double-
barrelled strike the other morning—bakers and
butchers turned out simultaneously. The bakers
wanted to put an end to night work, and the
bosses were not long in obliging them ; and all is
peace again in the bakehouses, where toil doesn’t
now begin till 4 a.m. But the butchers hold out,
and the struggle already has some curious joints
in its tail. The strike had hardly time to get
its first wind when a couple of friendly butcher-
drovers rushed round and bought up goats whole-
sale (every mining field can raise one goat
to every 26 discarded jam-tins), and one at
least of the pair thereupon purveyed goat
under the patronage of the strikers. But
there is a bigger scheme afoot—co-operative
butcheries. During a big miners’ strike in ’92
co-operative stores were started, and have been
kept going ever since. Butcheries were started
too, but they fizzled out, and the idea is now to
resurrect them. Meantime, the master-butchers
have taken their coats off, and are, according to
local announcement, “killing themselves,” which
is the master-butchers’ way of saying that they
are personally knocking Poley and Spot on the
head, and removing their most intimate parts ;
and to show how well they are getting on they
have reduced the price of mutton, though all
Broken Hill that wants meat has to go and get it.
The row in the butchers’ case is mainly about a
48-hour week and £4 ss. a week for shop-hands.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. eu. r a ... m
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Security or Freehold or Leasehold
s r°* "oV^iu^^'V^'/rsro^^sv
up n £ Borrowers the privilege of repaying
D.RECTORs-TheHon a! W Meeks MLC n ° fcice ° r ot a " v «"*
Short, Esq. ; James Burns Esq;’ The Hon’ r"j Black r?’ T h alk T | r ’ D^ P '’ ty^hai r ma n : Benjamin
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manwr J' . B J? ck ’ M C -! Hon - p - E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY Vlanager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
- 1 * ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
This Speciality is a blend of rare
Tobaccos which have been stored
in bond by us for many years. It
has been our custom in those years
which produce the finest Tobaccos
of special merits, to secure a re-
serve stock. Some of these stocks
we have now decided to amal-
gamate and the result is a unique
blend known as
“ARDATH SPECIAL.”
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
SPECIAL
SMOKING MIXTURE
' e lnv | ntors °f “ Ardath” have overcome the defective qualities found in older smokirg mixtures
d produced a mixture with a refinement of flavour and purity of blend which had previously been considered unattainable
Manufactured in LONDON by ARDATH TOBACCO CO. at their “ model hygienic factoty
(vide Daily Pres'i).
GBD
PIPES
A 3 SWEETASMUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from allTobacconkts
POLICY fok thk COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
HOLLOWAY’S PIUS
v*
%y
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ” cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and LuDg
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
*
o
if
0
/*
£
tfi
A
H ointment
BRONCHITIS
CURE
Tlxe Famous Remedy for*
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing ppwer is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain,
of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
. _ . ... . . . —— «
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
; child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food it sold in tins by Chemists, etc,, every where.
It is a noticeable coincidence that B. R.
Wise goes out of N.S.W. Parliamentary life just
as his legislative masterpiece is destroyed by his
political enemies. Wise,-when he was Attorney-
General, put high-pressure energy into his
advocacy of compulsory arbitration. The Premier
and other members of the Government in which
he was Attorney-General barely understood the
rudiments of the Bill, and liked it as little as they
understood it; but they gave him his way, and as
he expounded, explained and argued they eyed
him much as the hen eyed her ducklings when
they took to the water. When Wise forced the
measure through the Lower House his work was
only half done. The Upper House detested the
v ery mention of the Arbitration Bill, and it hadn’t
a friend there. So Wise resigned his seat in the
Assembly, and induced the Government to send
him up as a Legislative Councillor to beard the
decrepit lions in tlieir hospital. He disturbed
their slumbers and made them miserable till he
dragged a Bill from them, not as perfect as he
desired, but the best one possible in the circum-
stances. That was nearly eight years ago. iow
overboard, and Wise is fired out of
theJN.SW. Upper House for protracted absence
without leave.


MICK. SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
15he LEADING
HOUSE roR
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
CAN’T
B
BEAT
Our SPECIAL SNAP
mu
‘rjrvimnwmrwwmf l^
Best Selected SilKworm Gut. Hand Polished.
The “ RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spam.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable.
• h j t> xt o i/*;™ oh • Piriron No 1 16in..ls3dj Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 3d,
Regular, ImpinSo" ? .»>„ « per Hank o, 50 String,.
No. 328 — Sparrow Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—
-5 x 12, with ropes, pegs and sticks, 21/6 each
5 x 15, do. do. 26/- ea.
5 x 20, do. do. 31/6 ea.
5 x 25, do. do. 38/6 ea.
5 x 30, do. do. 42/- ea.
No. 329— Bat Folding Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, .for night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 295. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
A A
m
Bndtes
n<
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merries
England; 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise., la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post How to Vamf on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s (id. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers or Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices ivith others and
save your cash. pf Kttablished 25 Yean.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d uost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 64
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, 84
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, la wA Morgan's
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all’ iVgrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Pest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each poste4
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The
Dalli
I For Household Use. —To use it is the best,
most simple and most comfortable way of
ironing. Independent of stove and gas, it can
Ibe used anywhere. Non-Inflammable fuel
without noxious fumes. No risk from fire ;
healthier and safer than any other iron.
I Dallinette
(A Smaller “ Dalli.’’)
For light work and travelling only.
j For general household work use the “Dalli.”
| Having a larger ironing surface and greater
I heating capacity every description of ironing
| can be done with it.
Stocked by:
F. Lassf.tter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
READ,
MARK, LEARN
HOW
NOT TO
GROW
OLD.
HOW
TO
LOOK
YOUNG.
r
TWAIN’S
GREY HAIRS are quite in keeping with the role played by the
GREAT HUMORIST. But ordina.y men desire to retain their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty. Women
desire lo retain their youth and beauty. Darken giey hairs with
LOGKYER’S
HAIR
RESTORER
In bottles 1/6, oj all chemists and stores.
V
YSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s.
lightful and wickedly true. 11 *
Gd.
“De-
WHY DON’T
YOU BUY A
WINCHESTER?
2k
6/- per 100 ;
57/6 per 1000
Winchester Repeating' Rifles
1892 Model, ‘32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 shot,
24-inch Octagon Barrel, Weight about 7 lb.
PRICE 59/
Winchester Repeating Carbines
1892 Model, ’32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 Shot,
20-inch Round Barrel, Weight about 5f lb.
PRICE 56/6
THUMB TRIGGER S.S. MODEL, '22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long,
22 Long Rifle Cartridges
1902 S.S. MODEL, '22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges,
1904 S.S. MODEL, '22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges,
1906 REPEATER, ‘22 Cal., takes 15 '22 Cal. Short Cartridges
15/-
20/-
25/-
45/-
JAMES MARTIN &. CG.
683 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Patronage.
XJnder Vice-Reg'al
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereairh Streets *
I*“ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc. IN STOCK
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP. Telephone 2138
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POBT FREE.
Britisb=flustralasiati
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
PriVf* POsT FREE, £1 per year,
a 1 ILC LILI* in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters ruay be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter :
Copy of Testimonial.
GOVERNMENT HOI Si,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
Lady Mary Lygon wishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two costum
you have made fur her, which fit very well.
(Signed) C. JARDINIYB.


Weak Backs Made Strong,
Sore Muscles and Lame Backs, whether arising from Strains,
Over-exertion or Rheumatic Conditions of the System, are
relieved as if by magic by the thorough application of
S'
We/den’s, ,
¥*./\ w v\^
Football and Cricket Players are amongst those loudest in their
praises of it as giving most prompt relief from Muscle Pains,
Lameness and Soreness caused by Over-exertion and Strains.
SOLO EVERYWHERE. GUARANTEED. PRICE Is. 6d. & 3s.
these rnrr
PRIZES rriLL
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we offer FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or 6d. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Muff
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don’t send any money—just your name and address.
N.S.W, BOOKSTALL CO.
/ Post Card \
V Department / j
476 George-street, SYDNEY
rs. Maelwrcan’s
GH CURE.
To be obtained at all Chemists.
Price I/O.
531
MAKE ZZ AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AERATED WATERS cost less than
EOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
628 and 630 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
/>/•*
A 0
•A
OOK
• 0
<5
%
It is quite impossible in this advertisement to give more than a brief
outline of the contents of this most useful book, of which we are selling
hundreds every day. It contains 151 pages of information upon every
home requisite, and 1100 recipes. Personal appearance equally with matters
of domestic management are prescribed for. There is not a matter for enquiry
from the laundry to the drawing room on which a lady, on turning to these pages,
will fail to find some valuable recommendation. “ Everything a Lady Should Know
should be in every woman’s possession. It is Indispensable. The following are some of the subjects dealt
with and will be sufficient to show the value of this splendid book:—
HOUSEHOLD MATTERS & MANAGEMENT.—Uses of Ammonia—Cleanses the skin, relieves headache,
stings restores colours, brightens carpets, cleans windows, etc.; Acetic Acid Vinegar; to clean baluster
rails etc. BEVERAGES & CANDlES.—Recipes for every conceivable drink known ; cordials, sherbet, soda
beer ’ginger beer, lemonade, etc.; chocolates, caramels, toffees, jujubes, bonbons. Vanilla ice cream, etc.
SICK ROOM HINTS—COOKERY FOR THE SlCK.—Apple water, barley cream and water, a quick way to
make beef tea, broths, gruels (all kinds) jellies, hot lemonade, toast, sandwiches, custards- DISEASES, ETC—
Accidents and emergencies, poisons, cures for asthma, bee stings, bites, boils, sprains, fractures, bruises
and burns, bunions, chapped hands, chilblains, choking, cinders in eye, colds, diarrhoea, drowning, earache,
headache insomnia, itch, seasickness, billiousness, sneezing, sunburn, to remove obstructions from eye, ear,
nose throat, flesh, etc. HEALTH HlNTS.—lmpure air, apples, bathing, hygenic rules, diet, ventilation,
etc. 'INFANT MANAGEMENT & CHILDREN’S DISEASES—Every possible complaint fully dealt with,
and simple remedies and hints. Jams, marmalades, jellies, pickles and preserves of every kind, salads,
sauces spiced fruits—a chapter to each of these. THE LANNDRY.—To clean silks, kids, belts, cashmere,
frocks,’fruit stains, copper, lace, curtains, rusty flat irons, laundry stains, mackintoshes, setting colours, keep
flannel’s from shrinking, restore old crape, and deals with stockings, gloves, linen, woollens, etc: THE
TOILET.—DeaIs with freckles, baldness, blackheads, brilliantines, dandruff, beantifying, kerosene for hair,
keep hair in curl, shampoo, to whiten and soften hands and arms, perspiration, eyebrows, etc. MISCEL-
LANEOUS.—Hundreds of hints and wrinkles for the home. Stains, uses of borax, to seal bottles, clean
brass etc., keep butter cool, birds, insects, grease spots, cracks, leakages, china stains, cleaning knives,
crockery, decanters, frames, hats, feathers, hair brushes, hearths, trays, smoke stains, etc., disinfectants,
make fabrics fire-proof, glues, mending kettles, bowls, sewing machines, waterpots, umbrellas, etc.; stop
rattling windows, prevent wick smoking, milk from souring, smells, etc.; vermin, cool and heat ovens, soaps,
sewing hints, what a lemon will do, papering and whitewashing, flies, making pastes, sticking labels on
bottles tins, etc.; destroying vermin, rats, white ants, etc.; to flush sinks, to cool water without ice, testing
and purifying milk and water, etc., etc., and scores of other priceless wrinkles, hints, prescriptions, etc,, not
contained in any other book, and the
Price is only 1/3, post free anywhere.
A Book of Puzzles and Tricks given away
with every order for two books.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter Street, Sydney.
The Inevitable Ball.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A ball was held in the evening l . Vide account of any
country shivoo .
have held a social function
I Somewhere out near Barren Junc-
tion,
And the town has been enfite (that’s French, and
means that some of those
Who took part were most unstable
On their feet, and ’neath the table
Lay, oblivious of surroundings, in undignified
repose.)
M’s.L.A. were there from Sydney,
Many others of like kidney,
Shepherd Kings from round the district rushed
in when they heard the call.
There were speeches bawled and holloa’d,
And a sumptuous banquet followed,
And at night, beneath the oil-lamps, the inevi-
table ball.
Yes, a ball
In the hall;
For an earthquake might have happened if they
hadn’t had a ball.
No up-country ceremony,
Can be classified as “ toney ”
From the laying of foundation stones to speeding
friends away,
If, in spite of all the fritter
And the swell vice-regal glitter,
They omit the chief attraction of a dance to end
the day.
When a bank-clerk is promoted,
Or a wild-cat scheme is floated,
Or the member for the district makes his pre-
election call,
It’s the signal for an outing—
Presentations, flags and shouting—
And, to wind up the proceedings, as the papers
say, a ball;
Fancy ball ;
But they call
It a “ darnce” in local circles, though the papers
say a “ ball.”
And the Myall Tribune, thirsting
For the want of news, comes bursting
With a half a page of headlines on the next succeed-
ing morn,
Every speech is fully quoted
And a column is devoted
To a most minute description of the dresses that
were worn ;
Mrs. Blank a perfect dream looked ;
Miss Van Cash in mellow cream looked
Just a picture. Miss Merino was undoubted
belle of all.
And the Tribune’s circulation
For that issue licks creation—
Each and all must have a copy as a record of the
ball.
So the ball
Proves a haul,
And the editor, he misses not one item of the ball.
We may be cow-adorators,
We may lack good legislators,
We may badly need a navy and a small-arms
factory ;
But in one thing competition
Cannot lower our position—
'That’s the art of whirling madly and of circling
gracefully.
When the yellow hordes are coming,
And their flying shells are humming,
It will be a kind of picnic just to drive them to
the wall;
In the morning we will meet them,
In the afternoon defeat them,
And when evening comes we’ll ask the few sur-
vivors to a ball.
From a brawl
To a ball;
Yes, we’ll introduce our ladies —“Pleased to meet
you ! ” —at a ball.
N.s.w.
VELDT.
“Fact’ry ’Ands.”
THE RESCUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was Sunday. There were three of our
friends in the darkened bar, Benno, the Donj
and Mr. William King. They had been
living expensively during the last few hours, and
had recently arrived at a due sense of their im-
portance in the great scheme of things. The Don,
who was a sturdy drinker of native ales, was as
thoroughly “ pickled” as little Mr. Ben Dickson,
a mere amateur and a thirster of wretched capacity;
but this spree was something in the nature of a
handicap, Nicholas Don having started on
a career of profligacy early in the day.
He; associated himself with Billy King in the
afternoon, and towards evening the two fell in
with Benno, and straightway adopted the small
clerk, with the intention of making him as dis-
graceful as themselves.
As a result of this nice adjustment, the Don,
Benno, and Billy King were in a corresponding
condition of exaltation and noble pride. Their
admiration for each other was only exceeded by
the appreciation each had of his own splendid
qualities as a man and a brother, a public-spirited
citizen, a friend of virtue, and a heroic champion
of! the poor and down-trodden. The conversation
had taken a philosophical turn ; it bore gravely
op the shocking inequalities fostered by the exist-
ing social system, the increasing tyranny of the
rich, the sweat and agony of the toiling masses.
There were moments when the little clerk felt
strongly impelled to go out and kill a plutocrat in
the interests of the working man. He had men-
tioned it more than once.
‘Nicholas Don set down his pewter where the
■ counter shquld have been, and gazed at Benno
with brimming eyes. He embraced him.
I’m ver’ fon’ iv you, Benno,” he said.
“ You’re splennid fel’r. Man iv me own sort.
Brave’s er lion. True’s steel. What I like in
you, Dickson, is there’s no beas’ly pride ’bout
you—’n’ you’re brave ! ” f
was much moved. He seized the Don’s
hand, and wrung it with silent fervor. It was a
touching scene. Billy King, from under whose
hat tiny drops of perspiration were oozing, sur-
veyed it with symptoms of profound emotion.
“ Yes y’ are,” said Nicholas, defiantly, “ye’re
brave. You stan’" up fer ther suf’rin’ masses,
Si|me’s me.”
. “Me too,” said Billy King. He was very pale,
'hut determined. “ Le’s do ’r die,” he said.
Nicholas Don embraced Billy with the other
arm. He regarded him with tender pride.
Ere, ’ere !’’ he said. “We’ll stan’ t’gether.
S time somethin’ was put down. There’s too
much unnecessary suPrin’ poor in th’ worl’. Ther
rich is gettin richer, ’n’ ther poor’s gettin’ poorer !
Look et th’ widder ’n’ th’ orphan,” he cried.
Look et th’ widder ’n’ th’ orphan ! ” he re-
peated, still more vehemently.
Benno burst into tears. There was silence for
a few moments. The other two regarded “ our
Mr. Dickson ”in puzzled melancholy. They
were struggling to recall the circumstances.
“ Widder ’n’ orphan,” said Billy King, prompt-
ing, but his brilliant mind refused to connect
Benno s tears with the argument.
The two fell on Dickson, they smothered him
with sympathy. Billy King wiped his eye. The
Don patted him on the back, and murmured
soothingly. “ Buck up, ol’ man,” he said.
“ Buck up. Never say die while yeh got strong
’eart ’n’ stout ’ead.”
It appeared that Mr. Dickson was crying over
the widow and the orphan in a general sort of
way. He thought he once knew a widow
and orphan somewhere. He could not re-
collect where. He thought she was pale
and beautiful, with a look of heavenly resignation,
but he was not sure. However, his grief was not
for any individual case ; it was for widows and
orphans as a class. He wept on principle.
Benno’s friends did not despise his tears ; they
respected him for them.
“ Shows ten’er, symp’thetic nature,” said
Nicholas. “ ’Avar drink ? ”
The Don looked narrowly at the two pewters
on the counter. His own was on the floor. He
Counted the pots, and a worried calculation fled
across his mind.
“Where’s ol’ Billy gone?” he said, and he
drank Billy’s beer.
They had another, and the conversation de-
veloped greater fervor. It became evident that
the democracy must awake and arise. In the
absence of a general awakening and arising the
three were prepared to awake and arise entirely
on their own responsibility.
“There’s their wireless telegraphy ’n’ their
preferential votin’,” said the Don, argumentatively;
‘ ‘ what good ’re they t’ ther workin’ man ? What
we want’s’quality iv opporchewnity. ’Quality iv
opporchewnity,” he repeated.
“ Yesh,” said Benno, “ quali vopertunity. ”
“ ’N’ liberty iv ther subjec’,” said Billy King.
“ ’Ow ’ave they bin treatin’ Hemming? What
price er free country where they pinch er pore
man fer speakin’ his mind ? ”
“Tha’s right,” said the Don, sagaciously;
“ tha’s right. It’s hinfringement iv ther rights iv
free speech.”
“ Somethin’’ll’ave t’ be done!” Benno was
quite positive about it. He saw the country
sliding to ruin. Immediate action was called for.
“ ’N’ it’s up to us t’ do it,” he said. “ Hem-
ming’s er frien’ iv ther strugglin’ masses. Damn
it, he’s frien’ o’ mine ! ”
Hemming had been arrested that morning for
inflammatory language in the course of a Yarra-
bank oration dealing with constituted authorities,
conventional religions, and great persons, and was
then languishing in a prison cell. Billy's re-
minder gave point and purpose to the fine emo-
tions of the brothers in beer. Their aspirations
took form. Here was an object, a mission.
“ It’s outragis,” said Nicholas Don. “ Hem-
min’s a decent bloke. He hasn’t done nobody
any ’arm ; ’n’ jist because he’s speakin’ up fer
sufrin’ humanity ther Johns runs him in. This
’as gotter be put er stop to.” He hit the counter
with his pint. “This ’as gotter be put er stop
to ! ” he said decisively, addressing the barmaid.
“ Don’ care hang washer say.”
“ Righto,” cried the little clerk. “ It’s up t’
us t’ use our influence.”
“ We’ll see someone ’bout it,” said Billy King,
. vaguely.
Determination was stamped upon their brows.
Enthusiasm was in their hearts. Their souls were
suffused with a righteous scorn for the oppressor
and a hatred of wrong-doing. They had another
drink.
“Now we’ll go t’ get that man out,” said the
Don. They shook hands on it, and marched
resolutely into the street.
The three patriots did not merely hail a tram,
they commandeered one. They were public-
spirited men with a great purpose. Already
their quest had assumed the dignity of a popular
rising. They did not stop the tram with insolence
or hauteur, but there was a terrible impressiveness
about their joint behest that might have stopped a
universe. The whole tram system trembled and
obeyed.
Benno explained to the conductor that they
were bound for the city to secure the immediate
release from durance vile of good Comrade
Hemming. It was understood that in these cir-
cumstances the tram would be rushed straight
through, and when presently it stopped to pick up
passengers the public benefactors were hurt and
indignant. It seemed to them that the conductor
was showing a lamentable lack of enthusiasm in a
great cause. Benno threatened to report him.
He promised to hold the tramway system up to
popular odium. He expressed the belief that
that system was no friend of the working man.
When the three reached the city their grand
purpose was still uppermost in their minds. They
knew perfectly well what they were going to do.
They were about to visit the powers, and by the
exercise of their own enormous personal influence
and their great perspicacity induce them to throw
open the gaol doors to the martyred Hemming.
In the event of a failure of these methods, which
however, was not likely, Nicholas Don was pre-
pared to remind the Premier that their force of
character alone was preventing a terrible rising,
and that what restraint they exerted over an out-
raged and furious populace would be withdrawn
at once if the just request of the democracy were
not instantly complied with.
They met Fuzzy Ellis. Fuzzy was leading four
little nephews and nieces. He did not seem
overjoyed to see them. They backed him against
the Town Hall and explained their mission to
him. They explained it at great length. Fuzzy
tried to get away, but they held him to the wall,
saying that he must not detain them, as it was
absolutely necessary that they should go at once
and bring the Chief Justice to release Comrade
(Continued on next page.)


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
Every Picture
tells a Story.”
J
\tni
.J
vf 1
\
The Way to be Well is to
Keep the Kidneys Well.
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And little wonder.
A woman’s work and care and worry are enough to break down a much
stronger constitution than is given to most women—or men either for the
matter of that. The kidneys are invariably the first to feel the strain. And
they let their needs be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for
help. The cry of the sick kidneys.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys; they are made specially to act on the kidneys. Doan’s
Pills cure every ill of the kidneys and bladder, from common backache to
dangerous diabetes, dropsy, Bright’s disease. Head the following testimony:—
SYDNEY WOMEN CURED
The
Genuine
DOAN'S
effected
these
Lasting
Cures —
“A Word
to the
Wise is
Enough/'
LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says:—“l can strongly recom-
mend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for curing
pains in the small of the back. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it was difficult
to move about at all. I blame sitting too close at
work for causing the trouble. The pills effected a
permanent cure, for there is no sign of the ail-
ment now.”
Mrs. Lawson makes a second statement four
years later : —“The above is quite true, and time
has proved that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
not only cure, but cure permanently. There
would be less suffering in the world if people only
knew the value of this remedy.”
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Commonwealth Street,
Sydney, says : —“ I used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for aches and pains, in the limbs, which I
fancied were caused by kidney trouble. The pains
had troubled me for years, defying all treatment.
I found it very difficult to get up and down stairs,
and fits of giddiness which often came over
me made it more distressing. Sometimes I
would be laid up. Soon after I started using
Doan’s Pills relief came, and when I had taken
six boxes the aches and pains and giddiness had
disappeared.”
Three years later, when asked about her cure,
Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes, I am still quite well;
none of the distressing symptoms mentioned above
have ever returned.”
HUNTER STREET.
Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hunter Street, Sydney, says :
ror three years I suffered with kidney de-
rangement. Ihe worst symptom was a constant
backache, which got worse whenever I stooped.
1 tried many remedies for this complaint, but got
w eas n I . ai ¥, -! ad , t 0 that 1 got a cure at
PKoxt Doan ! S backache Kidne y Pills cured me.
hey are splendid pills, and have made a great
difference in my health.”
Eight years later, Mis. Mullins says:—“The
above statement is true, every word, and
1 can now add the important fact that my
cure has lasted. Doan’s Backache Kidney
mend d them V ” PmiSe ’ 1 WIU ahva y s recoin-
Get
Doan's
Backache
Kidney Pills.
Price 2/9
a box
(6 boxes 15/3)
Foster-
McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street#
Sydney*
Hemming. Fuzzy Ellis was painfully propitiatory.
He sympathised with everything. He agreed
with everybody. His little nephews and nieces
clung to his legs, and Benno and Nicholas and
Billy King enlarged on the infamy of which con-
stituted authority had been guilty in incarcerating
that noble soul, Comrade Hemming. Finally they
got very angry with Fuzzy for detaining them,
knowing the importance and urgency of their
mission, and Benno dismissed him with scorn and
contempt.
“ It’s no use yer talkin’, our min’s made up,”
said the clerk. “We’ll ’ave ’im out ’r perish
the ’tempt. . What good ’re you t’ th’ workin’
man ? You’re hireling iv ther rich. Stan’
’side ! ”
They passed on. The Don suggested that
their next course was to have a drink. No doubt
that was the proper procedure. There was not a
dissentient voice. Don knew a pub. In another
dark, secluded bar they told the vague, furtive
barmaid their splendid intention. They swore
her to secrecy, and then, having looked up the
address of the Prime Minister in a directory, they
went forth again, firm in their purpose.
Billy King was ‘ ‘ on the door ” at another pub,
and after that they took tram to a northern
suburb to visit a hotel where the Don was known
and respected. All the time their zeal in the
interests of the people’s champion, Comrade Hem-
ming, burned white hot. Through many dim,
confused excursions it remained with them. There
was a project to rouse the people, and lead an
armed insurrection to tear down the gaol. There
was a passionate interview with a fat man in a
motor car—a fat man whom the three patriots in-
sisted was the Premier, and whom they after-
wards wanted to fight for trying to impose himself
upon them as the Premier. They spent half-an-
hour knocking up the Premier at a large city wool
store ; and Benno was publicly kicked by the
watchman before he would desist. Later, a police-
man drove them from the steps of Parliament
House, where the Don was making a passionate
speech to some lamp-posts, while his satellites
slept at his feet.
At a quarter past eleven o’clock three splendid,
public-spirited electors passed out over Prince’s
Bridge, and along the St. Kilda-road in the soft
and kindly light of the full moon. They were no
longer eloquent. Their gait was eccentric ; their
minds were clouded. Still, they were true to
their trust. The demands of a sublime duty
drove them forward. A man tried to bar their
way at the big gates. He seemed to have a gun.
His behavior was most extraordinary. The Don
explained to him that there was not a moment to
lose.
“ Life ’n’ libity ! ” cried Benno.
“ Nothin’ turn us ’side,” said Billy King.
“ Victim-iv-brutal-tyranny-languishin’-prison.”
The man with the gun was obdurate, and the
Don did something to him. The three heroes
passed over that man’s body, and on to the
residence of the Governor-General to accomplish
their object.
Wild telephones summoned the police in num-
bers, and when they arrived they found three
young men besieging Government House. One
was hauling at the bell, another knocked at a
window ; the third was delivering a stirring ora-
tion from his seat on the doormat. The subse-
quent remarks of the young men conveyed the
idea that they wanted the Governor-General’s
assistance in striking for freedom. They thought
His Excellency would get up and do justice to a
wronged man if they were admitted to his bedside
to put the matter to him in its true light.
*-* * *
When Benno awoke on Monday morning it
was with a horrible sense of suffering and calamity.
His bones were full of aches. His head was as
heavy as a pig of lead. His mouth was littered
with Dead Sea fruit, and a burning thirst con-
sumed his vitals. He groaned, he blinked, he
stirred on his bed of tumbled bricks. Then he
uttered a cry of apprehension, and sat up. Wildly
he shook his companions from their sleep, wildly
they looked upon the four walls and the wretched
furnishing.
“Jimmy Gee, we’re pinched!” The wail
came from the lips of Billy King.
It was terribly true —they were in a cell. There
was a fourth man in the drear compartment. He
sat on a bunk, and gazed at them with contempt.
“It’s a damnable thing that a decent man
should have to spend a night with a herd of stale
drunks like you,” he said.
The fourth man was Comrade Hemming !
EDWARD DYSON.
When the Hungry are Fed.
[For The Bulletin.]
ONCE every year the insurance companies
of Melbourne town make a combined ex-
cursion, or rather incursion, down the
Bay to some beautiful, doll-like resort like Sor-
rento, where man made the first engine.
There I consort with my kind under altered
conditions. There I meet ma’s brother, his wife
and children, and exchange gossip and beatitudes.
There I am introduced to the pert baggage of
Tompkins, boss of the accounts department, and
a pleonast in “ shop ” monologue. There I swim
in all the visions of a hashish-eating Monte Cristo
merely by the absorption of lemonade, soda, milk
and limejuice.
Indeed, I feel exceedingly at my ease. I flatter
myself that I am a personage. I am smoking my
first cigar for 12 months, and allied to the physi-
cal pleasure of smoking is the pleasure of my
importance as an ego among many. I am in re-
ceipt of quite 15s. a week, and have not lost,
during a term of years, my servility, my “Yes-
sir, pleasesir ! ” to my superiors, who, would you
believe it, can now sign their own names without
a mistake.
I am indeed a personage for a day.
Sometimes, I may scuttle downwards, like the
veriest dipsomaniac, and imbibe soda and milk or
listen to the elegiacal “ Bull and Bush',” rendered
by Dago instrumentalists, one of whom, Um-
berto, a friend of mine, winks atrociously at the
“gels.”
Then, again, Uncle William, who bought a wife
with a fistful of “excellent prospects” (the
British co.’s term for unreceived increment), lopes
up to annihilate me with a “ Fine day, isn’t it ?”
I agree, while Uncle William’s sublime kid—
half-cut paper pattern, half-nakedness—climbs on
to my knee and whispers “ Cousin .
I begin to perceive a glorious time. ,
Soon I am buttonholed by the most stylish
ignoramus in the whole office. I am requested
to “ comean’ ’ave a taste ! I come. He
lemonade with a blase expression, that must have
necessitated nights of study and intense
centration before a pierglass, to have become, as
it is, an invaluable asset. I tip limejuic
soda into me. . , , •
And, as I leave the bar with a perspective
observation like a pyrotechnic entertainment, l
collide with one of our a morbid
maiden lady, who invariably writes English up-
side down, and who hates me because I treat her
too seriously as a joke. , • „
I begin to feel compromised, and experience a
weird sensation of a hundred in a face ot
leather. I escape, muttering in bansknt, and
with great good fortune meet the only dobbins,
Chief-Inspector of the Metropolitan and bub-
Agency Department, and an original conversa-
tionalist.
Then Jobbins:
“Fine day, isn’t it? ” “Yes.
“Couldn’thavbinbetter ?” “ Y-e-s.
“ Enjoyinyerself ? ” Y-a-i-r-s.” „ „
“Thinkit’lbecoolcomin back? _ Y-A-l-R-s.
He beckons a young woman in a Clara liutt
hat and neglige costume with the usual trans-
parent romance about the bosom. I am mtro-
troduced, sink fathoms deep in drivel, what time
Jobbins’ capture makes positively outrageous
proposals with her eyes.
After an interval of mutual admiration and
beslavering, I climb upstairs with a dizzy feeling,
to be drawn thenceforth into a discussion with
Blobbs, the cashier, concerning the art of the
Renaissance as a crusade of individualists.
I concur with an affected placidity which I do not
feel (the limejuice, etc., is effervescing), but men-
tion, in a mild, contradictory manner, that the
Australians are superior in the field.
This strikes him as an unanticipated conception
of the idea, and, while he is recovering from an
extravasation of saliva called personal adoration,
I clinch the argument with the curt remark that
Spinoza was a Jew.
I leave him subjected to the influence of my
grey matter.
I make a promenade, carefully stepping on tan
boots and shoes, since I can see no deck ; but,
discovering nothing interesting but a concert for
infants and a Punch and Judy show for the serious
people, I retire for another limejuice, etc.
Now I perceive the commencement, the over-
ture to a razzle, a riot of limejuice, etc.
Apparently the boat has stopped upon the face
of the waters, and the face is dirty.
The shore is reeling out of the distance and
arching itself like a worm. It is dancing with a
voluptuous abandon ; like Tortajada at the
Alhambra, it reveals mysteries seductive
mysteries of green and red and gold.
Then a leg in a blue stocking is thrust at me
wickedly. It becomes gigantic, overpowering,
torturing, majestically fearful.
It has struck the boat in the stomach and made
it ill—and the boat vomits the hungry million,
the looters of fish-teas—for the leg is a pier, or
rather, a Brobdignagian jetty.
Yet, by what black art do I find myself seated
in an antiquated steam-tram, flying through white
dust and flies at such speed that the shadow has
raced the tram ?
A woman’s veil slaps me spitefully on the cheek
—then I am falling down two cliffs and half a
ravine, and find myself recumbent upon warm
sand, gazing up to God with the proprietary right
of the nouveau riche. _ . |
Again, by some strange miracle, I find myself
in a palatial residence, where all the family—
there are hundreds of them—are fighting for fish,
chops, stewed fruits, pastry and such.
Around me there is a delirium, a pandemonium
of hungry ones who have not been fed for months.
I see faces magnified, hideous, grotesque, in the
process of mastication and devouring.
I see food being hidden with a complacent
cleverness; I hear jaws grinding a terrific and
barbaric litany ; knives and forks beating an in-
sane music. I see and hear respectability at a
f ree f eec j.
I flee for another limejuice, etc.
I flee from the resultant saturnalia of “cuddle”
when the buns, trifle, and hot coffee shall have
begun to work.
I flee to the boat, to the solitude of the bar, in
order to escape the ribaldry of Uncle William and
his kind, when lemonade is the name of “your
poison.”
Returning, the wind comes up from the east.
The sea is rough. The rest is silence. j
JEAN SIBI.
Summer Slumber Song.
[For The Bulletin.]
THE wind comes whispering in from the sea,
The ripples sigh as they fall and die
On the dreamy shore. ffl
The skies are as blue as blue can be,
And far away,
In a veil of spray,
The breakers roar. ;
The air is warm, and it seems to me
’Tis best
To rest
On the sandhills’ crest
And snore.
The hills are green, and, clustering round,
The red roofs seem to flow and stream
In a liquid haze
Of color splashed on an emerald ground.
The clouds are white, i
I could lie till night,
And gently gaze
At the universe as, without a sound,
It swings
In rings
And squares and things,
And sways.
My head is resting on Saturn’s belt,
My feet are on the horizon,
And oh ! you know,
I feel just now as I’ve never felt
Since I lost my job
(The ripples sob
And gently flow).
Oh ! Summer ! 1 would your beams would melt
To gold
Untold
That rolled
Into my hold—
Heigho !
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


After ha\ ing recovered from rheumatic fever 1 was
so w eak that I thought I would never get strong again.
A
V
■
&
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disappoint
you. Get AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULtS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nerrous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. fin'd by/ all Chemist*.
■—' ”
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunea
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
s
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aik your chemist for its history—the book is free—or -write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambetli Road, Loudon, Eng.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all files and affords comfort to ever'- home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flics
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
seas n.
told by
Wholesale
"ruggists,
Groce s and
Hardware
Dealer a,
among whom are
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allporfe
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldh®im,Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &Co. Ltxl
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N. Y., U.S.A
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHCEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 j£, 2/9, & 4/6
THE BALLET GIRL
*
*
w
ms
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fret, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated. Listi or Books and Xoveltiet
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYX3KTBY.
A POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
a
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving awav prizes such as MUSICAL,
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS. SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BkOOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER,
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward you 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette,
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling' them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustrations.
ES3
;o
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
Jf you J{ave
1 soa *®thing Sood to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary into
reading an apparently interesting story which proves to be a prelude
to an advertisement. The startling story and the thrilling testimonial
do not add to the merit of the article advertised. If you are troubled with
Tfctd j)igesiiQrtf Jmpure JCanguor^
3rt active driver# Sick £{eadacfjgj>
or other such ailments which arise from a Disordered Stomach iinperfectlv
doing its work* you need not experiment with the many medicines so
plausibly set before you; take
Beechams Pills
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by thousands of sufferers to be
unequalled for dispelling Disorders of the Stomach and Liver. It is not
necessary to bring BEECHAM'S PILLS before your notice surreptitiously.
* a JL op^, ly . „ recommend e d by those who have found that
BEECHAM'S PILLS will do all that is claimed for them —hence
they have the Largest Sale of any patent Medicine.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1\ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
_ to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Live:, and St ;mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper
WYSE & WHITE,
Squatters’ Agents for Employment
and General Station Supplies,
No. 1 London Bank Chambers,
Pitt & Market Sts., Sydney.
Coming direct -from the Outer
Darling, we know your wants and
are in a position to supply them.
PATERNOSTER’S
mm pills ■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
%WAO
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases w ithout
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the aame iW”
KEENER
HNS
ARE
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun In the
World and the best Shooting
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
_ simply address
KNOWN TO LAST. “Greener, Birmingham.”
The bulletin post cards-Now
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
SZSF
MEm
a no
wo men
Dr. John Martin, M.D. & B .
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“ The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Go., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply* to
Dr. Marcia now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long,
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases, JVo similar book has ever been published.
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES’’(the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of is 6d (stamps). Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elm ley House,”
151 Elizabeth-st..
__ HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


WATERPROOF LECCINCS
Splendidly made and
finished, 3/6 and 4/6.
LEATHER PUTTEES, 10/6
and 12/6— post free.
Ask for our Winter List.
#
///
Vh
WATERPROOF DRIVING
RUG. —Oar own make,
with either rubber or
patent oiled proofing,
7/6. 8 6, 10/-, 12/-, 15 -
and others up to 30/-
—freight extra.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD., 270 Ceorgre Street,
“ Best for all Rubber Goods,” SYDNEY.
Y. J. Daley's “ At Dawn and Dusk, ’ a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d; from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
p
m.
k.»
m
'':
-J. '
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneunjatio Hammer BoA DriHwr
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, D ', ls
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKIHC PART-Strlotly? ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
-W. & J. LEMPRIERE, 606
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
JOHN W. JAFFRAY,
ENGINEER & MACHINERY MERCHANT,
Vickery’s
Chambers,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
buyer, seller &
IMPORTER of
MACHINERY
ENGINES, BOILERS, PUMPS.
Mining, Woodworking, Brickmaking, Refriger*
ating. Wool Scouring and Drying Machinery,
Engineers’ Tools, Contractors’ Plant, &c.
Low Pricks and Satisfaction Ensured.
ft JAFFRAY’S machinery register.-
JOHN HURST & CO.
WatchmaKers and Jewellers,
have removed from
321 George St. t. 4 Hunter St., Sydney
WOLFE c
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINIMES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
Por Prices apply—J. WILBRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PARKE &
60 CLARENCE
LACY COY LTD.
STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IiSISISi
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles,”
IMPERIAL” TABLE CONCENTRATORS.
Largest Capacity. Simplest in Operation.
Power Required, *<h.p. Capacity 30 Tons per day. Built of Seasoned American Redwood.
Extract from $ V7HEAR ROBERTS’ report on the Yerrandarie Pioneer Silver
Mine, Burragorang (2c*/B/’O7)“A 5-head stamper battery and an Imperial Concentrating
Table are at work treating this ore, and I must confess that I was surprised to note the excellent
results that were being obtained from this treatment of oxidised material. A sample collected
from the Table while at work assayed 46'4 per cent, lead, 5500 z. silver, and I'OJdwt. gold per ton.
The supply of water is so limited that at present the plant cannot be worked more than five hours
per day, and then the water is so thick that it is not possible to get the best concentration results.”
A. CHAPPLE, Wolumla, writes:—“l have been working the Imperial Concentrating
Table for some months, and I must state that no better separator is to be found. I am running
it taking the pulp from a 10-Stamp Mill, and the concentrates are particularly clean and the tail-
ings free from mineral. I like it better than any other I have used, as, after once being set, it is
perfectly automatic, requiring no attention whatever.”
Copies of many other testimonials will be forwarded on application.
m
y
TOTAL WEIGHT OF MACHINE IS
UNDER 1 TON.*
R. A. HERVEY
SOLE AGENT for
AUSTRALASIA,
Clarence &. liing Streets, Sydney,
THE ...
CONCENTRATION
QUESTION.
There is no question of
more interest to the wide=
awake mill=man than that
of Concentration. When
we tell you that in our
m
7/6
. 'eUrr Kr~*
%
MODEL C CARD TABLE
we have the answer to the
question, we trust you will
give us a chance to show
you how we answer it. We
do not ask you to take
anything for granted, but
if you need some new
tables, and will give us the
opportunity, we will let the table answer for itself.
N. GUTHRXBGE, LTD,, Sydney and Melbourne*
