

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—“ TVFryrar A T=?.Jg=i ”
R. <3r. WATKINS «S& CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB—'
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE _____________
fir
SOLE AGENTS FOR
DARTIUM
Steel Process.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
iadleg s|rient|oteL
gjOAEER
LEATHER
ELTIMC
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
W
fine Apple Brand
Take it back,
I must have
ifc'Wf’.':
HAMS &
BACON
I
m’ihp
RESISTING
Demandez Vous !
IjS
a
WEE MACGREEGOR
BUTTER SCOTCH.
S’il Vo us Plait,
imt.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
We Manufacture ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
We Contract for INSTALLATION OF POWER, LIGHTING, AND TRACTION PLANTS.
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH WORKS COMPANY LIMITED
/ (THE STIL.VER.TOWN RUBBER CO.),
279 GEORQE. STREET-
SYDNEY.
9
I
5
I
à
IS
FOB
HANSEN’S
junket Tablets
PREPARE A PUI&E MILK FOOD.
Junket prepared with these
Tablets is highly
-rfcßlfcTS
recommended for
Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
HANSEN’S
JUNKET TABLETS
Prepare an Ideal Health Food for Invalids & Children,
MALTHOID, the coolest
for Summer-time, and guaran-
teed to give perfect satisfac-
tion where others fail.
WUItLnd
MALTHOID ROOFING leads
all others and is absolutely
different to any which may
look like it.
/
s
**
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
JMBLE &
SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
•iCaaaiqoßK pn« /° wn«*** tt V ™? saaji««* JSaSaci osxy
mm vds
A bottle of Helidon Spa checks the fermentations
of food and neutralises the acid.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
Vol. 29—No. 1503. j
[Thursday, December 3, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


& Co.
New Books, including thos
Ltd.,
ri CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Wells, H. G., War in the Air : a novel, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Yost, Making of a Successful Wife, 3s, post 6d.
Matthews, A Parson in the Australian Bush, illus. from
Photography, 6s, postage 6<S.
Midsummer Night’s Dream, illus. by Arthur Rackham,
the illustrator of “ Peter Pan,” 18s, postage 9d.
Johnston, Lewis Rand, by the Author of “The Old
•emir-ion,” “ Audrey," etc., illus., 3s Gd, post 6d.
Hall Caine, My Story, Cheap Edition, cloth 3s 6d, post6d.
Banfield, Confessions of a Beachcomber, 18s, postage 9d.
Kenneth Mackay, Songs ©f a Sunlit Land, 3s 6d, p. 4d.
Steel, Flora Anne, Prince of Dreamers, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Kice, Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch, illus. by Harold
Gapping, 7s, postage 9d.
Irving, Old Christinas, illus. by Cecil Alden, 7s, postage 9d.
Cormack, Egypt in Asia, illus. in color, 9s, post 9d.
Jack’s Reference Book of Everyday Information, 4s
postage 6d.
A ne\V volume of Bush and Racing: Verses, by Colonel
Kenneth Mack ay, G. 8., author of “Stirrup Jingles.”
SONGS OF A SUNLIT LAND.
W’ith Autograph Portrait of the Author.
Cloth gilV price 3s. 6d. (postage 4d.). Obtainable at
\ all Booksellers and Bookstalls.
ANCIiS & ROBERTSON, LTD., Publishers,
89-®5 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUME'NTHOL JUJUBES.”
The GreatV Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suitedS for Old and Young.
For COUGHS,! COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITISA INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
td Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro longed
periods."
A. The Larynx
Organ^o^Toice.
B. or
Windpipe.
I
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post fr.fee on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S BUMENTHWL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTB., 19 York Btr©ot, STOREY.
THE RED PAGE
Delectable Dunk.
IN these days of politics and dust we
envy E. J. Banfield on his tropical
island off the North Queensland
coast. For Banfield has lived a life of
solitude and happiness in his island of
“ scent and silence ” for the last nine
years, and his account of his paradise,
The Confessions of a Beachcomber (Unwin)
is one of the most delightful of recent
Nature books. Banfield writes with
charm and humor and enthusiasm ; he
sets forth the simple life with engaging
simplicity ; and he contrives to find and
convey interest in his little limited
monarchy of Dunk Island, three square
miles in area, set two and a half miles
off the coast of North Queensland, 110
miles south of Townsville. Nine years ago
he and his wife fled from the noisy con-
tinent to this tiny paradise, and there he
has been living in sole possession ever
since—happy, healthy and content. Here
there are no droughts, three creeks peren-
nially running, an annual rainfall of
150 inches, and a mean and remarkably
equable temperature of only 69 degrees.
The island is a purely tropical one, a
garden of foliage and flowers, birds and
butterflies, with the added delights of
coral gardens and amateur beachcombing.
. And not even Stevepson has pictured the
charm of the tropics as does this Aus-
tralian Crusoe, living his very own life :
Not life hampered and restricted by the
will, wishes and whims of others ; unencum-
bered by the domineering wisdom, unembar-
rassed by the formal courtesies of the crowd.
Bamfield is a close and loving observer
of Nature, and his character can be ap-
preciated by the simple fact that, when
he found that the birds were destroying his
introduced bees (and thus his anticipated
profit from honey), he decided to let the
birds live. In fact, he has proclaimed an
amnesty to all bird life, and the birds
have come to recognise Dunk as a sanct-
uary. Several species are becoming
tame, while others in increasing numbers
are coming to Dunk for their breeding
season. He even gives a big census of
the birds on his island.
And in his retreat this amateur Crusoe
has been disturbed by no thought of
profit. He went to Dunk to live, not to
make money.
Profit from the sale of produce and poul-
try would, have supplied additional coififorts
which would have been cordially appreci-
ated, but... at least, there remains the con-
sciousness of having lived, and of having
wrought no evil (not having interfered in
recent Federal legislation), and being able to
enjoy the sleep which is said to be that of
the just.
But though not of the world, Banfield is
yet in touch with it. Dunk Island is
but three minutes’ steam from the track
of vessels which make weekly trips up
and down the coast, and thus Banfield
has a regular weekly mail and a cheap
carriage of supplies. His chapter upon
the pleasures of amateur beachcombing
is fascinating. And his advocacy of
North Queensland as a paradise for the
White Man is whole-souled.
If I am successful in convincing that N,
Queensland is neither a burning, fiery furnace
nor yet a sweltering, steamy swamp ; that the
country is not completely saturated with
malaria ; that there are vast areas which no
drought can tinge with grey or brown, where
there are never-failing streams, where cool
water trickles among the shale and shattered
coral on the beaches, where sweet-voiced
birds sportand resplendent butterflies flicker,
then these writings will have been to some
purpose.
The book is illustrated with excellent
photographs of the beauties of this de-
lectable demesne and the strange inhabi-
tants of jfingle and coral reef. And its
reading will irresistibly raise the longing
to follow the example of E. J. Banfield.
Indeed, it is hard to resist the impulse to
go a-Dunking.
AN AUSTRALAISE.
When the foe is sweeping swiftly through Aus-
tralia’s open gates,
When the call to arms is ringing, loudly ringing
through the States,
When we gather in our thousands, marching on
where glory waits,
When the bugle calls to battle in the morning :
Chorus: Have no fear then , White Australia, for
thy sons will all be there.
If there’s got to be some fighting for Australia,
we'll be there;
If there’s got to be some dying for our country,
we’ll be there,
When the bugle calls to battle in the morning.
When the roar of battle surges, and we face a
storm of lead.
When the screaming shells are bursting into frag-
ments overhead,
When our broken ranks are stumbling over com-
rades fallen dead.
When we’ve got to face the music in the morning:
Chorus : Have no fear, etc.
When we get the word to charge ’em, won’t we
greet it with a shout ?
Won’t the enemy’s retreat be quickly turned into
a rout ?
Won’t the Monkey cut a caper when we start to
deal it out,
When we’re charging home to vict’ry in the
morning ?
Chorus : Have no fear, etc.
Now God keep thee, White Australia, from the
shameful yellow blight,
And though traitors to their color with their race’s
foes unite,
’Spite of yellow men and renegades, we’ll keep
Australia white
Till old Gabriel’s trumpet wakes us in the
morning.
Chorus : Have no fear then, White Australia, for
thy sons will all be there.
If there’s got to be some fighting for Australia,,
ice’ll be there.
If there’s got to be some dying for our country,
ice’ll be there.
When the bugle calls to battle in the morning I
J.P.M.
Two More
With the Spring comes the Waratah Poet.
Two of him, sprucely dressed, blossomed
last week. One is interesting, the other less'
interesting. Frank Hudson (the less inter-
esting) in The Song of the Manly Men and
Other Verses (Nutt, London) writes vigor-
ous verse about the Imperial army and Aus-
tralia. His Australian echoes are conven-
tional, but readable. There is more vigor in
his military verse. His Lead o’ Night Horse
aptly achieves an atmosphere :
They half turn their heads in salute as they pass,
Grey faces lit up with a nebulous glow,
Grey faces of those who lie under the'grass,
Grey faces of dead men I once used to know.
A harvest of death reaped by bullet and blade;
Abroad through the dark rides the grey caval-
cade
I know the grey rider who brings up the rear,
His touch like the ice and a blight in his breath.
Astride the white steed, pallid emblem of fear,
He shepherds them on through the valleys of
death.
A recruit is expected to-night in the force,
For he leads, as he gallops, a riderless horse.
They fade as a dream or a tale that is told,
Night-riders abroad on their errand of woe ;
The life has gone out, and the handclasp grown
cold
Of those men with grey faces I once used to
know,
Riding off through the night on their cross-country
course,
To beat up recruits for the Dead o’ Night Horse.
It is all just up to the level of the average
English Minor—which is to say that its
technique - is better than its Aspiration.
Hudson, who is a Dunedin journalist, does
not publish his portrait.
His Australian and his lyrical verse, how-
ever, are on a higher level. He has an apti-
tude for metre and rime, and a care for tech-
nique rather rare in a bard who thinks in
horses. He is careless, still, about his
“yous” and “thous.” As an example of
this dreadful defect, see how this stanza
upon The Australian Bush is spoilt:
Four-square to changeful Fate you stand, my
mother!
Crowned by the skies and girdled by the sea,
God gave thee Freedom for a deathless lover
That thou mayest cradle empires yet to be.
Yet he writes straight Australian, and in his
lighter manner he is excellent:
If you want a yiew of Hades
With its sin, but not its heat,
Graced by brass band, bars and ladies,
And a Governor and suite,
Randwiclt should be hard to beat
When the last bell rings.
And in his graver verse he writes what may
be termed charming magazine verse, as thus :
Kenneth Mackay does. He appears as a
colonel, with fripperies and a sword ; though
why a poet should wish publicly to appear a
colonel baffles conjecture. For his Songs of
a Sunlit Land (Angus and Robertson,
Sydney) are somewhat above the Australian
average in facility of diction and command of
rhythm. He is a belated survivor of the
Horse Poets, once rampant over this con-
tinent. He seriously devotes one por-
tion of his book to recounting “ Glen
loth’s Cup,” “Tarcoola’s Cup,” “Patron’s
Cup,” and other uninteresting silver-
ware. The depressing and monotonous fact
about all horse-raees is that one horse
usually goes faster than the others. For
every race the' handicapper puts lumps of
lead upon all the animals that might win.
His aim is not only that all the lead-carriers
should start at the same time, but finish at
the same time—which would, at least, be
exciting—but every time he fails in this
heroic endeavor. It seems time that the
handicapper was given another job. And,
after all, when one animal, plus lead, goes
faster than other animals, plus lead, the
leaded winner never succeeds in going as fast
as a racing motor-car. However, Kenneth
Mackay considers the four-cornered animal
worth writing about ; but the verse he
writes about it isn’t worth much.
REINCARNATION.
I do not know when first we met or parted,
In what dim corridor of time befell
The fateful hour that left me broken-hearted.
In what sweet tongue you breathed your last
farewell.
I do not know how many worlds I’ve travelled,
How many aeons I have stood alone.
But love at last all mystery has unravelled,
And now once more I know you for my own.
We may have loved in days of Grecian glory,
We may have died beside the templed Nile;
What matters now the sequence of the story,
Since we have met who parted were awhile.
Child of the dawning, once again begotten,
Come back to me from out the golden past,
Deep in your eyes I read naught is forgotten,
Rose of the World, I kiss your lips at last.
On the whole a minute but carefully polished
stone that may swell, though scarcely ap-
preciably, the growing cairn of Australian
poetry.
Irish Verses by Padriac Colum.
A PORTRAIT.
My eyelids red and heavy are
With bending o'er the smouldering peat;
The AEneid now I know by heart;
I have read it in cold and heat,
In loneliness and hunger-smart.
And 1 know Homer too, I ween,
As Munster poets know Oiisin.
And I must walk this road that winds
’Twixt bog and bog, while east there lies
A city with- its men and books
With treasures open for the wise,
Heart-words from equals, comrade-looks.
Down here they have but tale and song.
They talk Repeal the whole night long.
“You teach Greek verbs and Latin nouns,”
Ttfe dreamer of Young Ireland said,
“And do not hear the muffled call,
The sword being forged, the far off tread
Of hosts to meet as Gael and Gall.
What good to us your wisdom store,
Your Latin verse, your Grecian lore?”
And what to me is Gael and Gall?
Less, ah, far less than Latin, Greek.
I teach these by the dim rush-light,
' vXji smoky cabins, night and week.
Bill what avail my teaching slight ?
Years hence, in rustic speech, a phrase,,
As in wiid'earth a Grecian vase.
DREAM AND SHADOW.
Your face has riot the bloom I gave
My dream of you, my dream of you !
Your eyes have not her eye?’ deep hue,
Nor has your hair the gold I wrought
Out of my dreams for head of her—
M Bhron ! I thought that dream sheen caught
From hair of you, from hair of you !\
Pale lips, pale hair, ’tis not your fault"?
A shadow of a dream are you ! Y
THE PLOUGHER. V
Sunset and silence ; a man ; around him earthy
savage, earth broken :
Beside lmn two horses, a plough !
Earth savage, earth broken, the brutes, the dawn-
man there in the sunset!
And the plough that is twin to the sword, that is
founder of cities !
“ Brute-tamer, plough-maker, earth-breaker!
Can’st hear ? 'inhere are ages between us !
Is it praying you are as yo.u stand there, alone in
the sunset ?
“Surely our sky-born gods can be nought to you,
Earth-child and Earth-master !
Surely your thoughts are of Pan, or of Wotan or
Dana?
“Yet why give thought to the gods ? Has Pan
led your brutes where they stumble?
Has Wotan put hands to your plough or Dana
numbed pain of the child-bed ?
“What matter your foolish reply, O man standing
lone and bowed earthward.
Your task is a day near its close. Give thanks to
the night-giving God.”
Slowly the darkness falls, the broken lands blend
with the savage, ,
The brute-tamer stands by the brutes, by a head’s
breadth only above them !
A head’s breadth, ay, but therein is Hell’s depth
and the height up to Heaven,
And the thrones of the gods, and their halls and
their chariots, purples and splendors.
[From New Songs. A Lyric Selection by “ A.E.”
from modern Irish poetry. (Bullen, London,
Is. 6d. net); third edition .]
The second issue of Roiolandson’s Success
(N.S.W. Bookstall Co.), a shilling illustrated
annual of Australian stories and verse, shows
a general improvement in the illustrations,
while the obvious popular quality of the
yarns should ensure a wide bookstall sale.
The prize-winning short stories and humorous
verses of the Bookstall’s recent competition
make up the bulk of the contents. The
yarns are hardly remarkable either for plot
or style, while the humor is leisurely and
long-winded. But the publishers evidently
know their public.
There is a mob of centenaries due next
year—Poe, Darwin, Chopin, Abraham Lin-
coln, Gladstone, Edward Fitzgerald, Men-
delssohn and Tennyson.
O. Henry
Hail to O. Henry, the inimitable ! In The
Four Million and The Trimmed Lamp he
had shown that romance and mystery stalked
in the open through modern New York, and
now in Heart of the. West (McClure, per
Sydney Book Club) he has tracked the same
romance to its lair among the cowboys and
the ranchmen of the West. He is the most
humorous short-story writer living, and he
adds to his humor (with its ever-present
pathos) a cleverness in the construction of
his yarns that in arty other writer would be
something like genius. In his hands,
however, it is almost a trick, cer-
tainly a habit. He has, too, the gift of
phrase, his characters talk a slang that
glitters with inexhaustible humor and
pungency; his heroes are living men, his
villains redeemed by their kin with the best
and worst in us. But it is for the literary
art of his stories that 0. Henry is most
worth reading. He has the gift of keeping
the reader in the dark till the final illumin-
ating paragraph. It is worth any writer’s
while to stop at the last page of any of his
stories and guess the ending. In nine cases
out of ten the hardened reader will guess
wrong —and turn back, delighted, to see how
consistently O. Henry has led up to that
inevitable, yet unsuspected, denouement.
In Heart of the West the author is merely
turning to a land he knew well before he
explored New York for its inherent romance.
He has been cow-boy and sheep-herder and
miner and tin-type man. And his descrip-
tions of his characters are invariably vivid.
You can see Lucullus Polk, with “his bright-
red necktie, gallantly redressing the wrongs
of his maltreated blue serge suit, like a
battle standard still waving above a lost
cause,” and the gentle,inan who was “ a hotel
detective, if ever white Alpine hat, hawk’s
nose, implacable watch-chain and loud re-
finement of manner spoke the truth.” And
you cannot forget Oklahoma country in its
first bloom, with Guthrie “rising in the
middle of it like a lump of self-raising dough.
It was a boom town of the regular kind —
you stood in line to get a chance to wash
your face ; if you ate over ten minutes you
had a lodging bill added on ; if you slept on
a plank at night they charged it to you as
board next" morning,” And Maine. “As
soon as I saw Marne I knew there was
a mistake in the census reports. There
wasn’t but one girl in the United States.”
Mame was a waitress in a restaurant, and
naturally had come to the conclusion that
“the reports in the Seaside Library about
Man being a fairy prince lack confirma
tion.” In Maine’s opinion Man is a Tomb.
“He’s a sarcophagus for the interment
of Beeksteakporkchopsliver'nbaconhamand-
eggs. For two years I’ve watched men eat,
eat, eat. They’re absolutely nothing but
something that goes in front of a knife and
fork and plate at the table. I’ve heard girls
rave about their sweethearts, but I never
could understand it. A man and a sausage-
grinder and a pantry awake in mo exactly
the same sentiments. No, Jeff; I’ll marry
no man and see him sit at the breakfast
table and eat, and come back to dinner and
eat, and happen in again at supper to eat,
eat, eat.”
But it is for his not for his setting,
that 0. Henry needs to be read. In Heart
\qf the West there are a dozen stories that are
ais interesting, as true, as unconventional, as
humorous, as pathetic as—well, the only
pei'son we can justly compare 0. Henry to
is himself, so we’ll say —as in The Trimmed
Larhp and The Four Million.


vae
Tip-Top Tools at Anthony Horderns' Famous Low Prices.
Barnes ’ No - 1i Upright
Drill,
With Combination Lever, Automatic Stop, and
grand Self-feed ; weight, 9761 b. J 834 10s.
Very strong and stiff, thoroughly well-made ; high-grade in
every respect. Spindle fitted for No. 3 Morse taper ; roller
bearing for spindle thrust. Positive Self-feed, with four
changes of feed. 22£in. swing. Height, 74in. ; diameter of
column, 6§in. ; diameter of spindle, 1 11-16 in. ; vertical travel,
12in.; diameter of table, ISin. ; from spindle to table, 26in. ;
diameter of large pulley in cone, lOiti. ; diameter of small
pulley in cone, 4in. ; ratio of back gearing, 5J to 1; floor space
required. 52 x 19in. ; belt required, 2Jin. ; fast and loose
pulleys, 10 x 3£in. Countershaft should make 200 revolutions
per minute. Back geared. The above Drills are fitted with
quick return Lever for spindle.
Barnes’ No . 7 Upright
Drill,
15in. Swing JBI3 10s.
With Combination Lever and Wheel Feed. The operator
has the choice of either. The change is made by inserting or
removing the lever. The bevel gearing is cut from the solid, and
is as nearly noiseless as it is possible for metal gearing to be.
Height, 65in. ; spindle to base, 47in. ; diameter of column,
4Jin. ; diameter of spindle, 1 l-16in. ; travel of spindle, 7in. ;
hole in spindle, No. 2 Morse taper; diameter of table,
10 x 12in. ; fast and loose pulleys, 6 x 2Jin. ; diameter of large
pulley, Bin. ; diameter of small pulley, 2Jin. (takes ljin. belt);
occupies floor space, 20 x 31in. ; speed of pulley, 500 revolutions
per minute ; weight, 2901 b.
Wells Bros’. Little Giant Screw Plates, Whitworth Thread.
• • ' '.j
v y
■
miiiiiiiiiHnmiinHilP
No. 1 Set.— g, f, | and 1-in., with Taper Tap to each
size. Dies and Collets and adjustable Tap
Whenoh, per set ...
No. 2 Set.— s-10, g, 7-16, § and f-in., with Taper Taps,
Dies and Collets to each size, Whitworth Thread and
adjustable Tap Wrench ...
No. 3 Set. —g, 7-16, g, g and 1-in., with Taper Tap to
each size, Dies and Collets and adjustable Tap Wrench
No. 1 Set for Pipe Threading' adjustable Dies, in Collets,
Interchangeable Guides for convenience in cutting
nipples, 1, g, | and 1-in.
Do., to cut li and 2-in. ... ..
These Sets are all fitted in very handsome polished boxes,
made to hold each tap and die.
£2 10 0
£2 7 0
£3 5 0
£1 10 O
£2 10 O
spaces being
Vertical Spindle Moulding and Shaping Machine.
a
This Machine is for moulding or shaping straight, circular,
or irregular outlines,and is specially suitable for using cutters
in grooved holders, on square blocks, or with cutters through
the spindle.
The frame is a cored casting in one piece. The table is32in. square,
and has planed grooves across it so that the fences, etc., can be fixed square
without loss of time in “setting” and in any position. The slide carrying
the spindle has planed seats the full length, and is adjusted vertically by
screw worked through bevel wheels and conveniently placed hand-wheel.
The bearings are phosphor bronze, extra long and heavy, and are turned on
the outside and fitted into bored seatings.
The spindle and long pulley are made from one solid steel forging
in order to get a true running balance. A loose Head, lin. diameter, is
fitted to the spindle, which will carry a square cutter-block, grooved collars,
or solid reversible cutters. The countershaft supplied with the machine is
arranged to work the spindle right or left, and convenient reversing gear is
provided.
Diam. of pulleys on Countershaft, Bin. Revs, per minute, 800.
Price, £45 lOs.
Radical Patent Square Hole Drilling: Chuck and Drill.
Nozzle,
m
m
a gw
Showing Sample of Work.
Radical Chuck.
Drill for Boring Blunt-edged Square Hole.
No. 2
No. 3
Drills
4/6
They can be fitted to any lathe, and can be worked without difficulty by every practical engineer.
Chuck, will bore Blunt-edged Square Holes, 7-32 to 19-32 or 6to 15 M/M ... ... ... Jil4 10s.
Chuck, 3-8 to 25-32 or 10 to 20 M/M ... ... ... ... ••• ••• .£lB
—These drills will bore perfectly smooth broken-edged square holes, dead true to size, and to a depth of about three times
the size of the drill. When ordering drills always state the chuck for which they are required.
13-32
4/6
7-16
SI-
-15-32
51-
5/6
17-32
5/6
9-16
61-
19-32
61-
7/-
21-32
71-
11-16
8/-
23-32
8/
9 1-
25-32
9 1-
inch.
each.
1£ inch.
36/- each.
Cleveland Twist Drill Co.’s Celebrated High-speed Twist Drills, for use with Drilling Machines—
i 5-16 § 7-16 * 9-16 f 11-16 jf 13-16 J 15-16 1 11-16 1J 13-16
£/. 5/ - 5/6 6/- 77- 8/- 9/9 11/- 13/- 14/- 17/- 20/- 21/- 24/- 28/6 32/-
The Climax Bench Tool and Twist Drill Grinder, 85/-. This machine will grind drills up to fin. There are no complicated
adjustments necessary to secure accurate results. Height, lOin. ; width, 18in. ; depth, 9in.; weight, 201 b.
Leyland, Barlow & Co.’s Vertical Slides and Vices
Slot-Drilling Carriage and Vices
Fine Tool Vices
Traversing Slides (Automatic)
3in. Horizontal Dividing Head
sin. Horizontal Dividing Head
Self-Surfacing Hand Shaper, with Vice, Bracket, and 6 Tools, .£9 17s. 6d.
Power Shaper, with Bracket £l2 17s. 6d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, StOGk and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
3L.-tcL.
SYDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT_and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to verv best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent '“GRIP iDROPPER.”
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS
8/6
eMaN^ l
STAB^
■Doctor
ItIOSTBA
New Edition
Hamilton’s Great Stable
Manual and Hors e
Doctor, 8/6, Dr.. Foote’s
Plain Home Cycloiledia,
latest edition, 1248 pages,
400 colored plates and en-
graving’s, 7/6. Dr. Faulk-
ner’s Original Book of
Nature, the only genuine
and unabridged edition,
3/6, posted 4/-. Comic Re-
citer, 1/-. Ready-made
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride of the First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
wwu Cards, 1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-. Every
Man His Own Builder, 1/6. Letter Writer, ]/-.
Lover’s Guide, 1/3.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
31
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
'where, appearing- at
-word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
ill us tration). Com plete
with Full Instructions
■ (enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted. 21-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tim Anovn Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
natural
ENO ’ S
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INViGORATiNG
a
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/-post free.
OTHER MODELS— ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., Ply. Ltd., 276 8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong,
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
I
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEIPY CO aff^F-ETITIOKT.
? i
;A **
WINES' ne Best o " h > of SPIRITS.
| MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
" Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CD TAILOR-MADED
OORSEXS. LtDi
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
c
BSSg
y Iffl CO*S tX *
ever created.
_ Tailor - Ma de Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets. J
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
Fr » m 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE,
v „ ,* Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
Tii
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
A GREAT SUFFERER
Tried Many Medicines.
“ There is no question of greater importance to a
community than health,” said Mr. George Alfred
Willis, of No. 7 Bourke Street, Zetland, when re-
cently engaged in conversation with a reporter,
“ for when that is lost matters remain at a stand-
still pending its recovery. That was my experi-
ence, at all events,” he continued, “for when I
was taken ill some time back, I was not able to
get along at all.”
“Was your work of a laborious nature, Mr.
Willis ? ”
“ Carpentering—not the easiest job on earth,
you know ; but if it had been quill driving it would
have been all the same to me, as I had no energy
whatever. As a matter of fact, I was confined
to my bed, and things looked very blue, for I was
getting no assistance from the physic I was taking,
and it seemed to me that I was a done man. I
had read of Clements Tonic, and asked if I would
give myself a last chance with that remedy. A
relative who had used it said ‘ yes,’ very emphati-
cally, and gave me her reasons.”
“ You were in such straits that you were willing
to accept almost any advice, I suppose ? ”
“Well, you see, there was scarcely anything
left for me to take, and as all other remedies had
proved futile, what was the good of going back to
them ? So I soon got some Clements Tonic, and
what a God-send it was, too. I was just about as
low as I could be, not having been outside the
house for a fortnight, and if it hadn’t been that
Clements Tonic was taken just in the nick of time
my ailments may have taken such a hold on my
system as to have defied all efforts at eradication. I
think it was pleurisy that had seized me, and, oh !
what a terrible cough I had—so painful and so
exhausting, that each bout aggravated my feeble-
ness. A great deal of phlegm came away, and one
would almost think I had consumption, to judge
by the pallor of my cheeks and the shrunken
state of my body. The pains in my lungs were
very acute, making me dread the necessity of
drawing my breath, as each time I did, a sensation
like a knife cutting made me writhe in agony. It
was not a life I cared to cling to, believe me,
for one would be far better off dead, and out of the
world altogether, than linger in such misery.”
“ What kind of nourishment were you in the
habit of taking ? ”
“ I was existing on cereal foods, and even that
there was a difficulty in digesting. Always head-
aches in the mornings, a nasty fur roofing my
mouth, which made me continue washing it during
the night, the dryness, too, being troublesome;
and at least two mornings in the week I would
find myself vomiting. I was pitifully nervous and
shaky, and my mind was not at ease, either day
or night. I could not help thinking that some
great trouble was hanging over my head, threat-
like the sword of Damocles, to descend
with destruction at any moment, and to tell you
the plain truth, my life was a burden to me.”
“ Were you long using Clements Tonic before
you felt any benefit ? ”
“ Some little time passed before I noticed
an improvement, but then you must remem-
ber the circumstances—how thoroughly broken
down I was, and I think the marvel is
that I pulled round so well. But Clements
Tonic kept building me up, and restoring
my internal organs to a healthy state, until I was
as sound as possible. What a remarkable thing
Clements Tonic is to make a person eat —wliv,
even on the hottest days it gave me a good
appetite, and such a splendid remedy for nervous-
ness and insomnia, too. For years 1 had suffered
from giddiness in a bad form. If I stooped to lace
my boots or anything, when I rose up I’d seem to
go round like a top, and even when out walking
I’d give a sudden reel occasionally, like a man who
had been indulging in something stronger than
lemonade.”
“ Do you get those sensations now?”
“ No; they have quite left me, thanks to
Clements Tonic, and I have nothing to thank but
that medicine for ridding me of my cough, and
ultimately restoring me to the very soundest
health. So now you can publish these facts
broadcast.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, GEORGSjE ALFRED "WILLIS, of 7 Bourke Street, Zet-
land, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, d» solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a trine and faithfuj account of my illness and cure
by Clementfe Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any wav my statements—which I give
voluntarily* without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn, declaration Conscientiously believing the same
to be true*fand by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and de dared at Waterloo, this twenty-
seventh day of Febq tary, one thousand nine hundred
and .eight, before me,
WILLIAM ALLEN. J.P.


This elder brother
evidently knows
how to play
doctor, in real
earnest. He
knows about
Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. His
mother told
him. Her
mother told
her, and her
grandmoth-
er’s mother
told her
mother. It’s
the one stand-
is
6.
ard cough medicine for children.
24i(er’s
'Gherrif 9eetoral
is entirely free from narcotics or
poison of any kind. It is the great
remedy the world over for colds,
coughs, croup, whooping-cough,
influenza, la grippe, and all bron-
chial complaints.
Accept no substitute or cheap
and worthless imitation. Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days* approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
à
LATEST
MODELS
£3mlo to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Larce profit!
easily made. Write a. once, using sufficient postage,
— for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
on sample machine. (
MEAD CYCLE CO., ». tso LIVERPOOL
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST!
A painfully thin
woman is placed at
a great disadvan-
tage nowadays. No
woman now need
stay thin and un-
developed.
[2
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD
is a natural tissue builder, a scientific bust
developer, that will add five pounds to your
weight weekly, and adds inches to your
measurements. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St. ,
SYDNEY
Perpetual Motion.
When George Stephenson was asked,
'•Do you believe in perpetual motion?”
he replied, “Yes, if you lift yourself by
the waist-band of the trousers, and carry
yourself three times round the room.”
Just so, and a woman would just as
soon believe that she has not to pay dearly
for common soaps, in the low quality
of soap, in ruined hands and clothes.
She would be kept in perpetual motion
trying to do with common soap what she
could so easily do with Sunlight Soap.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
imperial
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Translated French Novels.
(Some Illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogues from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2Jd
0. ARTHUR, 6 Passage Crana, Monte Carlo.
A POLICY foe the
1 nee 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
á
w%
Q)
1W
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
"Cass Tjsstimssi
SsggSs'
george"bonnington
nir*
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Have you seen the new
‘ Prana'Sparklet Syphon
for making pure, fresh sodawater or any sparkling
■mineral waters, just when you want
to, wherever you may be ? It's done
in a minute by using
“Prana” Sparklets
which can be obtained of all Stores,
Ironmongers, &c„ throughout Aus-
tralasia.
For full particulars apply to any of the
undermentioned firms, who will give you
the name and address of your nearest dealer.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Sydney and Brisbane; Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne;
G. Wood, Son & Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Fremantle;
Alfred Shaw, Ltd., Townsville.
Sole Makers: Aerators, Ltd., ** Prana ** Sparklet Works* London.
wmsi^
Under Vice-Regal
a
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Miss Van Biiakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth and Castlereajrh Streets.
PT- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
Christmas, 1908
One of the finest descriptions of the
Good Old English Christmas
to be found in all literature—
Washington Irving’s
“Old Christmas
Illustrated by Two Full-page Pictures in colours (facsimile of
the original water-colour drawings) and numerous other
illustrations in tints,
is contained in
â
ã
%
w
N
In a superb pictorial cover, printed
in eight colours, together with
Three Beautiful
Presentation Plates
Printed in the best and most artistic
style of Chromo-Lithography, viz.:
I. “ THE OLD OLD TALE,' by A. Soloman.
Size, 23*4 in. by 18% in. Printed in 13 Colours.
z. “A WINTER’S MORNING," by Frank Dadd, R.I,
(A brilliant Hunting Scene).
Size, 14 m. by 19 in. Printed in 13 Colours.
3. “A WINTER’S EVENING,” by Edward Brewtnall, R.W.S.
(A Christmas Card Party).
Size, 14 in. by 19 in. Printed in 13 Colours.
The last two form an excellent pair.
NOW READY. Sold by all Booksellers.
Agents for Australia-GORDON & GOTCH.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Ballade of Black Sheep.
Renegades trailing where strange stars lead,
Black Sheep out in the lone expanse ;
The desert called them, her heart had need
Of these grave knights for her great romance.
Dauntless of spirit and countenance,
No man knoweth where such men sleep ;
Torn in the thickets of grave mischance,
Where is your Shepherd, oh Sheep, Black Sheep ?
They fled the fold with but little heed,
The snoring fold in its midnight trance,
For the long-planned vigils, the path decreed
Plainly and straitly by Circumstance.
Oh, pipes she sweetly to see them dance,
Though grey-haired women at home may weep.
The lone ways darken, the years advance,
Where is your Shepherd, oh Sheep, Black Sheep ?
The mirage mocks them, the hills recede,
Wild winters strangle their subtle plans ;
The thorns waylay and the worn feet bleed,
The plain-winds challenge their arrogance ;
Strenuous hearted, with fighting glance,
Boldly they reive what the wilds would keep;
Over their couches a lone sky spans—
Where is your Shepherd, oh Sheep, Black Sheep ?
[Envoi.]
Fate, from their shields withhold thy lance,
Cherish the fighters, for slaves are cheap.
Yet, while we weary of charlatans,
Where is your Shepherd, oh Sheep, Black Sheep ?
MAOKILAND.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
The Lying-in-State.
Hush ! Can the Dead hear ?
As I and Memory a vigil hold
Harking to days that trailed a glory gold.
Hist! Is the Dead near ?
Ah ! Can the Dead know
How my young faoe was pressed to fragrant earth ?
And how a new, sad woman since had birth ?
Where do the Dead go ?
Stay ! Does the Dead weep ?
To know how falsely I have learned this while
My woman’s privilege —the way to smile
Altho’ my Dead sleep !
Ah ! Is the Dead sad ?
That ne’ermore runs my blood its wanton red !
That I am chiller than the icy Dead !
Or — Is my Dead glad ?
Does not the Dead care ?
How across the locust-eaten years
I turn my eyes ! —and how they fill with tears
How can the Dead bear ?
Bah ! How the Dead I hate !
Which turns my life to a mere backward glance !
Oh cruel, darling Dead ! Old-time Romance
That lies in state !
N.s.w.
HELEN JEROME.
The Worker in the Sun.
Here halt a little in the dappled shade,
And watch yon workman busy with his spade.
In the hot sun the earth, grown drowsy, nods ;
But he goes turning still the arid sods.
We are grown languid of the golden air,
The dusty highway and the noonday glare,
Where shade is hardly shade against such skies,
Whose keen excess of splendor hurts the eyes;
But he goes toiling on, with figure bent,
Unheeding all the heat, on earth intent.
Beneath his boots crackles the parched grass,
And clumsy flies drone by his ears, and pass.
See his swart forearm, darkened by the sun,
His strong, toil-knotted hands, hairy and dun.
The sun-rays beat his back, on which their lies,
Biding its time, a colony of flies ;
His spade, worn guiltless of corrosive rust,
Gleams at each twist betwixt each downward
thrust.
This is the worker in the sun—the bee ;
While two heat-weary dusty drones are we.
Let us push on—’tis many miles to town,
And we must get there ere the sun goes down.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
Phases.
Just a flush of pleasure,
And a flash of pain,
For a half-guessed treasure
Found and lost again.
Faery fancies flocking,
Hopes and fears a-start,
That’s when Love comes knocking,
Knocking at the heart.
Just the glad surrender
To a power that rings
Earthward from the tender
Godward heart of things ;
God’s own hands a-swinging
Heaven’s gates apart,
That’s when Love is singing,
Singing in the heart.
Gold of dead Septembers
Blown across the grey,
Hope’s dead campfires’ embers,
Ghosts beside the way ;
Mute the lyre, unlifted,
Mute the gods depart,
That’s when Love has drifted,
Drifted from the heart.
VIU.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


’"ARCHITECT
SPECIFIES
ä
å
ā
The up-to-date architect's practical experience has taught
him that the Wunderlich Designs embossed in Metal are
the ideal form for ceilings and wall-linings.
They looK better and last longer than the old-fashioned
style and never give any trouble.
For decorative purposes they are wonderfully adaptable
and lend themselves to endless color combinations.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms; Postal Address: Melbourne Showrooms;
56 PITT ST. Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney. 243 COLLINS ST. .
ă
B-W
The m JEssence of Vi ta?li
tADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
ą
i m
SUPPORTS
MILLIONS
e
f
f
c.
o.
e
can strop the Auto Strop Safety Razor. For that
* reason shaving with it is most delightful and easy. It
explains also why the Auto Strop is so much better than any of
the “ no-stropping ” kind of safety razors. Shave each morning
with the
Auto'StiHxp mm
if you would know what real shaving comfort is.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor, with. 12 blades of finest steel, special
Horse-hide strop, in case complete, 25/= nett.
Agents for Manufacturers —
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
a
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE XJ'.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
dog (or
manjwith-
out permanent injury
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
ment for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. PriSe 2/9, or post free any where for 3/-
The Joker’s Squirt
Cinematograph.
A real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a micros-
copic lens fitted into one end. While the
victim is absorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing something in-
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the vest pocket. Full directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
r\
i
S&sa
\ '
\ iV
i y
The Searchlight Elec-
tric Pocket Lamp and
Scarf Pin can be used as an
ordinary lamp for lighting pur-
poses, also as a Novelty Electric
Scarf Pin. The
whole outfit
guaranteed i n
perfect working
order, throwing
. a dazzling bright
light. Price,
complete, 2/9,
■ or post free 3/3.
Extra Batteries
, for re-charging
lamp //-, or post
free 1/3.
Wholesale and
Retail.
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition just published.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address : Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
ǻ
MARQUE
DEPOSE E
“RATITE”
IS USED
by Municipal, Military and Naval Authorities,
by Steamship Companies, by Grain Stores,
Slaughter Houses, and Factories all over the
civilised world.
SCIENTIFIC and INFALLIBLE
RAT
Exterminator.
Harmless to Man and to all Domestic Animals.
3/6 per Tube; 3 Tubes, 10 /- Post Free.
Regular Weekly Supplies received by
CARL ZOELLER * CO. LTD.
The Surgical and Veterinary Supply House,
246 Queen Street. BRISBANE,
as Agents for
Pasteur Vaccine Co. Ltd.,
7 Rue Meyerbeer, PARIS.
æ
YOU ARE GOING
TO DRINK
BROOKE’S “LEMOS
99
Sweetened Lemon Squash.
BECAUSE
Large Bottles, 1/6
Small Bottles, 10d.
in . the hot Summer weather it will revive you
better than any other drink. The flavor of
the fresh lemons and its perfect keeping
•qualities make it the finest Lemon Squash
to be got anywhere.
and ECONOMY
FLAT ROOF
' ■
* V
■
m
7
m
V
\\
M:
f
£ .Rich O (o. i_ T ? Aoum.
m
»
A flat roof
is the most
economical
roof, and
the most
economical
flat roof is a
BUBEBOID
FORTIFIED
BOOF.
Full particu-
lars from
E, Rich & Co. Ltd,
Sydney- and
Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1503.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1908.
PltlOK 60
FAITH WITHOUT (WATER-) WORKS, OR AGRICULTURE IN AUSTRALIA ON THE
PROPOSED SALVATION ARMY LINES.
Colonel Hammond, of the Salvation Army, says that the new citizens will most likely be drawn from non-British sources.
But what does that matter so long as they have Booth’s “S.A.” trade-mark?


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1908,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 10.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse, and
Sketches, crave and gay (mostly gay), contri-
buted during the year by the foremost Austra-
lasian writers.
The illustrations will be the finest Black and
White work obtainable in Australia, and will
reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual
reflection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence
of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be
allowed for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us immediately to ensure
supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Yhk Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO S U BSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can. have Tins Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin, ” is the propet
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Sjteeial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor 'will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of JIBS'.
To A inuteurs in Jflaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Lndgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115, High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt.- —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6%in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
jTteT^xxlldtz/Ti.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3,190 S.
JERVIS BAY-SYDNEY’S PROPOSED
RIVAL.
The mild statement of Prime Minister Fisher, to
the effect that the new Australian Government
accepts the recent vote of the House in favor of
a Yassberra capitah suggests that there is no fight
in a large section of the Labor caucus. Of course,
the matter is miles from a settlement still, for the
new Government proposes to stick to its very
moderate demand for 900 square miles of
Federal territory—not quite three times the
area of Brisbane and its suburbs—including
access to the sea and enough coast at Jervis
Bay to make a real port; and the truculent
fury of Wade over the matter of area may at
any time upset all previous arrangements. But
the fact that the majority of the Labor party
should propose to let such an important matter
be rushed through without a referendum, or
even a general election, shows that the Labor
majority is a curiously accommodating animal
at times, and very Tory in its instincts when it
finds it convenient to be so. The Yassberra-
Jervis Bay proposal was sprung on the people
since last election, and the great desire of the
Tories is to commit the country to it before next
election, and thus block any expression of popular
opinion whatsoever. It was not a free or un-
biassed choice. It was arrived at partly because
the weaker and more tired members were dead
weary of asserting Australia’s interests against the
two loud-mouthed scolds who have successively
run the State affairs of N.S.W., and it was
easier to give in to the violent usurpation of
Australia’s rights by the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment than to fight; partly because the State
Frights papers had so often repeated their im-
pudent lie about N.S.W.’s overpowering public
opinion in favor of Canberra that certain
feeble time-servers began to think their
seats would be in grievous danger if they
didn’t vote as the daily papers told them
to; and partly because the spineless but
affable Deakin had let his opportunity slip. And
then many votes were bought by the bribe of a
promised Federal port at Jervis Bay, 87 miles
from Sydney, and thus 13 miles on the wrong side
of the legal,limit—a Federal port which is liable
to be lost again any day by a decision of the High
Court that the granting of it bursts up Clause 125
of the Constitution. If this is not a ease in which
the people ought to be directly consulted it is
difficult to imagine such a case.
* * * *
Australia has an area of nearly 3,000,000 square
miles from which to choose a capital, and in all
that space it might be supposed that it could dis-
cover a site worthy of itself and its greatness.
Yet, by an amazing series of dodges, plots and
treacheries, it now finds itself almost committed to
a site with a dry lake on the east; and on the west
a reservoir which is liable, in parched seasons,
when the demand for irrigation is heavy, to be a
mere expanse of festering mud ; a site close to an
undrinkable river afflicted with hydatids and
the stench of dead rabbits; a site where the
Commonwealth will have no reliable drinking
supply or supply of water power of its own, but
THE YASSBERRA CAPITAL AND PORT.
The double line represents a Federal railway from the proposed Federal capital at Yassberra to
the proposed Federal port at Jervis Bay.
The space between the dotted line and the Victorian border represents the section of N.S.W.
which will naturally tend in course of time to send its trade to Jervis Bay instead of to Sydney.
It also represents the area whose members, both State and Federal, will naturally vote with the
Jervis Bay interest and against the Sydney interest should any attempt be made, by differential rail-
way rates, to force the trade to Sydney. In doing this they will be influenced by the demands of their
constituents for access to the nearest port.
must depend on the forbearance of a State which
has always treated it with hostility ; where it is
only offered a scrap of land at the best ; and
where it is promised a port which it can only
hold on a most shaky and questionable title.
Moreover, this district lies in a region of no special
fertility, and is crowded up close against the most
congested part of A.ustralia, so that the establish-
ment of a capital there will do hardly anything
to help that wider dissemination of population
that the country so much requires. That a
country with nearly 3,000,000 square miles of land
to select from should, by the scheming
of Reid, the bullying and truculence of
Carruthkrs and Wade, the selfishness of
mean parochialists and the cowardice of mean
politicians, have come down at last to making a
choice like this seems an incredible circumstance.
Even if the choice has the sordid result of making
Mr. D. R- Hall’s shaky seat at Werriwa a little
safer, it isn’t worth sacrificing the best interests
of Australia for the sake of Mr. D. R. Hall, who
will probably go out in any case.
Just because a mean and selfish deed often
brings its own reward, the selection of Yass-
berra—if the Jervis Bay seaport isn’t a myth—is
almost certain to recoil on Sydney. A Federal
port at Twofold Bay, near Dalgety, would be 300
miles from Sydney, and too remote to be a serious
rival to that port. If it did steal commerce from
its neighbors, it would dispute supremacy with
Sydney and Melbourne about equally, but in
reality it would dispute with neither. Instead,
it would . set up a trade of its own a
trade which its railway connections would de-
velop in the now empty regions of Monaro and
East Gippsland. But a port at Jervis Bay, only
87 miles from Sydney, would reach out for
Sydney’s trade with both hands. It wouldn t
make trade in a new and hitherto empty locality,
but it would compete for the commerce of a
region which now sends its business to Sydney,
and which lies right at Sydney’s door. The
movement might be staved off for a time perhaps
for a long time ; but cities and seaports grow
quickly in Australia when they get a chance to
develop, and there is no reason why Jervis
Bay, with Federal assistance and influence
and a ready-made railway system behind it,
shouldn’t expand as rapidly as Melbourne did.
By sea it would become a port of call for the
N.S.W.-bound Perth, Adelaide, and Melbourne
steamers before they reached Sydney, and it
would be their last N.S.W. port of call on the re-
turn voyage. By land, it would have first claim
on the trade of the Cooma line, of the Mel-
bourne and Adelaide line, the Riverina lines
from Hay and Jerilderie, and the Coota-
mundra-Wyalong line which may yet be a
direct road to Broken Hill and Adelaide ;
likewise the Tumut railway, the Germanton
railway, the Culcairn-Corowa branch, the
Crookwell branch, and the branches to Barellan
and Lockhart, and part of the Blayney-
Murrumburrah line—perhaps as far out as
Grenfell. Over all this immense mileage of the
N.S.W. State railways, paid for with N.S.W.’s
own hard-borrowed money, the Federal railway
from Yass to Jervis Bay would offer a short cut
to a port a good deal nearer than Sydney. And the
new port would compete for the trade of southern
Illawarra to boot.
* * * *
The N.S.W. State Government might com-
bat this movement for a time, but the odds
would be against it. When it rose in wild alarm
to a knowledge that, instead of dragging the
trade of the Federal capital to Sydney as intended,
it had sent the trade of about one-third of N.S.W.
away from Sydney to the Federal port at Jervis
Bay, it certainly would tight for all it was worth.
It could, of course, stop all railway extensions in
the regions which sent their trade to the new port.
But differential rates and such-like devices could
be met by the appointment of an Inter-State
Commission, or if that proved insufficient, by an
amendment of the Constitution giving the Com-
monwealth power to either control railway rates
or to take over all railways compulsorily. The
State Government’s weak point would be that the
State wouldn’t be solidly with it. The interests
of the counties of St. Vincent, Dampier, Auck-
land, Wellesley, Beresford, Murray, Argyle,
King, Cowley, Wallace, Selwyn, Buccleuch,
Harden, Monteagle, Bland, Clarendon, Wynyard,
Goulburn, Hume, Mitchell, Bourke, Cooper, Gipps,
Dowling, Nicholson, Sturt, Boyd, Urana, Denison,
Waradgery, Caira and a number more would be
with the Commonwealth if the State tried by
special railway rates to drag trade to Port Jackson
when the trade wanted to go to Jervis Bay. And
these interests, which would convert every State
and Federal politician from Southern N.S.W.
into an anti-State-Frights politician and a good
Federalist, if only for the sake of his seat, would
be backed in the Australian Parliament by Labor
and Liberal politicians from all or most of the
other States. The trouble might be some time in
coming, but when it came the odds would be
against Sydney. No one seriously believes
that the taking over of the railways by the
Commonwealth can be postponed for ever, and
when that event comes, and the Commonwealth
adopts the policy of helping trade to go to the
nearest and most convenient port, the amount of
commerce which will be diverted from Sydney to
Jervis Bay must be something very considerable.
An attempt to prevent such a movement might
be successful now, when the great bulk
of the N.S.W. Federal members are in
the Sydney interest, but when a whole lot
of them and also a lot of State members, were
driven, by self-interest, to be in the Jervis Bay
interest, things would be different. A Federal
capital at Yassberra might be a poor enough
place itself, but the amount of traffic that must
one day roll past it to the Federal port should be
something worth looking at. The case would pro-
bably never be like that of Caister and Norwich, of
which it used to be said—
Caister was a city was none,
And Norwich was built of Caister stone.
But it might be the case of Bristol and Cardiff
over again. Bristol was once the greatest seaport
of western England. But at Cardiff, simply
known 100 years ago as “the creek,” a port was
opened a few miles nearer to the sea in the
direction that the trade comes from, which would
be just the case of Jervis Bay as against Port
Jackson. And in 1906 the upstart port, through
being a few miles nearer to the source of business,
had 13,000,000 tons of shipping to old Bristol’s
1,000,000 tons. Of course, the intention is to
make the Federal port at Jervis Bay a small,
tenth-rate affair, but Time and Circumstance
upset many intentions, even as they did in the
case of Cardiff.
* * * *
Some few pure-Sydnevites realise already that
any commercial city which encourages a power
which it can’t control to establish a new com-
mercial port on a fine harbor only 87 miles away
from its front gate, is taking a lot of chances.
Others are too obtuse to notice the point. But
when it is realised, Sheol must needs break loose.
Already some far-seeing people contemplate an
appeal to the High Court, in the hope
of having a Federal port at Jervis Bay de-
clared unconstitutional on the ground that
the place is 13 miles inside the legal
100-miles distance from Sydney. This attempt
will certainly be made when it is understood that
a large portion of the trade on 12 N.S.W. railway
lines threatens to leave Sydney and make for the
nearer port. If the attempt to rule out the
Federal port at Jervis Bay succeeds, the Federal
capital must either settle down to be a mere in-
land town, and a sort of suburb of Sydney, with
no resources of its own, or there must be an
amendment of the Constitution to enable the
Commonwealth to hold Jervis Bay regardless of
Clause 125, and to take it regardless of
the State Government’s objections. If the
attempt fails —and equally if it succeeds and
the victory is afterwards nullified by an
amendment of the Constitution —the row that
is liable to ensue between the State and the
Commonwealth should beat even Carruthkrs
best efforts. Or, rather, it is likely to be a row
between Sydney and the northern part of the
State on one side, and the southern part
of the State and the Commonwealth authority,
representing Australia ir. general, on the
other. It will be a battle for the right to charge
differential railway rates against the Federal
port, and the end must be disaster to the Sydney
interest. The whole Yassberra-Jervis Bay pro-
ceeding is an amazing departure from the
traditional Sydney policy of dragging all
trade to Port Jackson, but in this case one
parish prejudice has eclipsed another, and
the crazy desire to keep the capital away
from the vicinity of Victoria, and away from
cheap water power, and away from any prospect
of manufacturing prosperity, has quite obscured
the fact that the new proposal means the creation
of a rival port right alongside the old jealous
bagman-haunted N.S.W. metropolis, to intercept
the southern trade which constitutes so much of
Sydney’s prosperity.
When this paper advocated a Federal capital
on the Snowy River, with an area of 5000 square
miles and a sea outlet at Twofold Bay, it
had hopes of a great new port which would be so
far away from Sydney that it wouldn’t be a com-
petitor—a place that would create a new trade for
itself instead of intercepting Sydney’s commerce
and tearing the crust out of the old city’s mouth.
It had ideas of a harbor that wouldn’t try to cut
off from Sydney the trade of 12 of N.S.W.’s rail-
ways, but which would become the centre of a new
railway system ; also a harbor which the Common-
wealth would hold by an indefeasible title instead
of having to scramble precariously for it in the High
Court. Then on the Monaro the new metropolis,
with its splendid water-power, might be a great
rich manufacturing city, yet far enough removed
from both Sydney and Melbourne to live without
stealing or interfering with their industries, while
at Yassberra it seems likely to be a mean city which
will only be a wayside station on the road to a
big new port jammed right up against the old
port. The concentration of everything in Sydney
is bad, but the establishment of a new port
only 87 miles from the scene of concentration
isn’t likely to help the evil much. The great
ambition of all good Australians should lie to
open up the empty spaces, to bring population
and commerce to the vacant regions, and to make
the Federal capital and port a scene of peaceful
expansion—a place which will grow for the public
good, and do injury to none. That result won’t
be achieved if practically all the trade of N.S.W.
is concentrated on about 150 miles of coast, and
Sydney is shut in between a big port at New-
castle, 02 miles north, and a big port at
Jervis Bay, 87 miles south, and all the
rest of the great south coast is left in its
old lonesomeness; and if behind Jervis Bay
there lies a mean little capital with no manu-
factures and no hope and no decent water supply ;
and Federation becomes a wild-cat fight over
differential railway rates and rival harbors. Jervis
Bay, of course, would not be as Newcastle is. It is
supposed to be a real harbor like Sydney ; not a
shallow estuary with a dangerous bar. Also
there would be a power behind it that could put
up a tremendous fight if any attempt were made
to drag its legitimate trade past it to the State
capital. But it seems absurd to go looking for
fights. And it seems still more absurd to abandon
all hope of the Federal capital becoming a great
manufacturing city, and all hope of opening up
the great empty spaces, merely for the sake of
having a chronic shindy, and splitting N.S.W.
in two, and dragging away a lot of Sydney’s trade
to a new place which, after all, is only 87 miles
distant from the old place, and which will open
up hardly any new country. It isn’t a sufficient
spreading out of trade to be called decentralisa-
tion. The game may be worth the candle, and
worth the fearful disturbance that it must lead to,
but it doesn’t look like it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Post Office Sweating.
One day last week the Postal Commission called
before it H. W. Jenvey, the department’s electri-
cal engineer in Victoria. It had already struck
some sweated officials, but Jenvey seemed about
the limit :
He was not able to devote the attention he ought to
give to his purely technical duties because of the large
amount of clerical and financial work that was forced
upon him. At the present time he attended at his otlice
every morning at 8.10 a.m., and worked until 6 p.m. He
took home every night a bag of papers, and worked at
them until he could keep going no longer. Then he went
to bed. In the morning, before reaching the office at
8.10 a.m., he made inspections on a bicycle. On Satur-
day afternoons he took home more papers, and on Sun-
days he worked either in the office or at his home. That
had been going on for seven years, and instead of getting
better it was getting worse. The work was so full of
worry and disappointment that it was almost enough to
kill a man. Last year his doctor told him that if he
did not take a holiday he would become a mental and
physical wreck. He took six months’ leave, to which he
was entitled, and resumed work last January. The same
sort of thing had, however, been going on ever since. He
had been unable to get the staff he wanted. The result
was that he could not make any progress in the en-
gineering work he ought to be attending to. If the
central office or the Deputy Postmaster-General asked for
a report by a certain time, he had to devote his attention
to it, and other work had to be left undone for the time
being. At the present time he had in his office work to
do in preparing reports and estimates and other things
that would take him three months to deal with if he were
locked up in his office and not interrupted. He was
pretty well desperate now to know how he was going to
get through the work while the commission was
sitting. It had happened that when, owing to stress
of work, he had had a report prepared by one of
his staff, he was told that it was a matter to which
he ought to have given his personal attention. . . . Owing
to attacks in the press, to which he was unable to reply,


about matters which were the fault of the system under
which he had to work, his character had been lowered in
public estimation.
These are the inevitable result of the ten-
dency of weak Governments to grovel to the
blatant State Frights push. In the last year
of State management the Post Offices showed an
estimated loss of about £270,000. Their finances
were propped up by the nefarious swindle of
charging a considerable amount of current ex-
penses to loan. Then the Commonwealth took
charge, and great things were expected of it. It
was to make bricks without straw ; to get a quart
out of a pint pot; to bring a great deal out of
nothing; to raise salaries and reduce charges and
increase profits and satisfy everybody. It
did a great deal: It reduced charges; it in-
creased the facilities offered to the public; it
showed a profit where there had been a loss ; and
it made the accounts square and honest by stop-
ping the loan swindle with which ordinary work-
ing expenses had been disguised. While it was
doing this the Tory and Freetrade and anti-
Australian press started its lying crusade about
“Federal Extravagance” —the one which it
stopped only when it started the new shriek about
“Federal Sweating.” Weak-kneed Australian
Governments tried to disarm this opposition by
new and still more extraordinary economies. In
the struggle to return enormous and ridiculously
superfluous amounts to the States, and to make
bloated surpluses for Oarruthers, and to give
Bent the money which he fritters away in dona-
tions to agricultural shows, they cut expenses to
the bone. The reductions in rates caused an
immense increase in business, an immense demand
(which could not be supplied because the necessary
money had gone to bribe Oarruthers and Bent)
for telegraph, telephone and postal extensions,
and an immense heaping of new work on to the
shoulders of the already overworked staff. The
needless subservience to Bent and Oarruthers
and Wade brought the Australian Government
nothing but curses and a harvest of new difficult-
ies ; for instance, the immense and superfluous
sums which it returned to Victoria and N.S.W.
enabled the State Governments to abolish certain
local taxes, and though their abolition brought
the Commonwealth no thanks, their re-imposition
will bring it a heap of vituperation. The intense
economy which was required to make possible the
return to the States of the superfluous millions on
which Bent and Oarruthers grew fat and
insolent and posed as Heaven-born financiers,
brought down on the Australian Government two
separate harvests of anathema—one for not extend-
ing posts, telegraphs, telephones, etc., fast enough
to meet the public demand, and another fqr
sweating its officers. Even now it is haunted by
demands that it shall return more money to the
States ; spend immense sums immediately on ex-
tensions ; spend immense sums on increases in its
staffs in order to avert the remorseless sweating
that now prevails ; and reduce the letter postage
to Id. throughout Australia. And on top of this
there is a crazy proposition that cable rates to
England shall be cut down from 3s. per word to
one penny. Plainly, it is up to the Australian
Government to make a new departure by deciding
(1) that it will make all needed extensions and
improvements; (2) that it will give its employees
decent hours and decent pay; (3) that it will get
the money somehow —by direct taxation if need
be ; (4) that it will listen to no more advice from
State Frights. One result has already been
achieved; the lavish offer which ex-Treasurer
Lyne made to the State Premiers the last time
an effort was made to settle the financialproblem
—the offer which the State persons rejected with
scorn—will never be renewed. The postal revela-
tions have made that fairly certain.
+ .
A Sal.-Army Immigration Scheme.
The State Government of N.S.W. is fooling
with a new immigration scheme which can t
be too promptly and enthusiastically suppressed.
It is to be run in conjunction with the Salvation
Army in England, and the main proposals are as
follows: —
The Army will make nominations of immigrants from
England, and will guarantee employment for them on their
arrival in New South Wales.
The responsibility of finding employment, or maintain-
ing the immigrant, will rest upon the Army, through its
various organisations in the State.
The further obligation rests upon the Army of giving a
guarantee to the Agent-General that the immigrant is a
person whose character and respectability can be vouched
for.
If it should happen that the immigrant turns out on
arrival in New South Wales to be a “ waster,” he will be
removed at the expense of the Army.
But upon an immigrant who has passed the prelimi-
nary inquiries as to character settling down to a rural
occupation, the State will then pay the Army a bonus in
respect of him.
There are about a score of objections which could
be raised to these proposals, but six will suffice
for the present. (1) The Army will naturally
regard membership of the Army as considerable
evidence of “character and respectability.” In
other words, it will promote an influx of the ser-
vile followers of the Big Drum superstition—
mostly a futile and ignorant crowd of a very
humble order of intelligence. (2) These people, by
reason of their religious subservience to William
Booth, and to the fact that they depend on William
Booth for employment, and are liable to be
removed by William Booth if not satisfactory,
will virtually form for a time a separate com-
munity, or a State within a State, owing allegiance
to William Booth. (3) The Army mostly repre-
sents a low-wage class ; and when its immigrants
have work found for them by the Army, and are
liable to be deported as “wasters” if they don’t
accept it, they should be a godsend to the cheap-
labor-loving cocky and the strike-breaker. (4) The
new men, in their search for employment, will not
only have their cheapness and servility to help
them, but the influence of the Government and
the Sal. Army organisation will be behind them.
These advantages should give them a very excel-
lent chance to get the other fellow’s job when
there are not enough jobs to go round. (5) For
lack of a graduated land-tax the Wade Govern-
ment is still making a bad failure of the work of
finding land for its own would-be settlers, and in
the present case it is, as usual, putting the cart be-
fore the horse. That wouldn’t matter so very much
if it was a good horse, but the proposed horse looks
a most unpromising horse. In any case (6) N.S.W.
has in London a capable and energetic Agent-
General (Coghlan), and it doesn’t require to fall
back on the Sal. Army or any other superstition
to do duty as its immigration agent.
■ — , —♦
How the Vic. Eailway Commissioners Got
Scared.
Last week a shocking misadventure befell the
Vic. Railway Commissioners in their contest with
the living victims of the Sunshine railway acci-
dent. The contest now proceeding at Melb.
County Court is for the benefit seemingly of
sundry local lawyers and barristers. That the
Railway Commissioners can hope to save any con-
siderable sum of public money through this costly
warfare is an improbable supposition, but they must
be credited with a desire to make their own ex-
peruses oat of the difference between the amounts
claimed by the victims and the amoui
awarded by the juries in the County Court
cases. And now as regards the shocking m s
adventure aforesaid. James Mendhaii ,
shattered victim, claimed the maximum amount
of compensation (£2000), and the Railway Com-
missioners— through their legal advisers—told him
to come into court and show himself, an
truculently cross-examined by PURVES, b>.o.
James Mendham was evidently considered a test
case as regards the maximum claim. Lttbo
defendants could have got his claim cut down by
the jury, there would have been no chance tor any
other injured survivor of the Sunshine disaster
to get the full £2OOO award. But the fortune of
war was with the claimant. In the first place, he
gave a thrilling account of his sufferings in the
Sunshine accident. He curdled the blood of his
hearers with his details, as, for instance :
There was a third dead man just in front of me, and his
hand kept falling on my face every time I pushed it
away While X was there a piece of hardwood timber was
worked loose on my left leg.. .. Then passengers came
along calling out that the carriage was on fire. I made
violent efforts to extricate myself. I could see the smoke
coming up. Eventually I was got free, when my doctor
told me that my two legs were broken, and also my foot.
They put me on a stretcher and took me into a van, but
they found that the van had only corpses in it, so they
took me out and put me in another. I now have to walk
with a stick. At the least excitement X get very shaky
and hysterical and suffer from headache. I cannot con-
verse with people as I used to. .
The appearance and manner of the witness as he
trembled in the witness-box, showing cause why
the Government should pay him the money he
demanded, were as painful as his spoken evidence.
Here was a case in which the £2OOO maximum
seemed far less than a fair thing. All the same,
the nervous wreck had to suffer some cross-
examination, and he was reduced to hysteria when
the ordeal was adjourned until next day. Then a
circumstance happened to scare the defendants.
The daily papers published James Mendham’s
story under cross-headings, and called it Terrible,
which was not at all the effect that the Railway
Commissioners had wanted to produce when they
sought publicity for the case. They at once
ordered a settlement out of Court, merely stipu-
lating for secrecy as regards the terms. Apparently
the claimant got the full £2OOO or thereabouts, on
condition that the amount was not stated. Then
the Judge heaved a brickbat of reproof at the
Railway Department’s legal advisers in saying:
“I congratulate you on having come to a decision
on a most painful case. It will relieve us all.”
—♦
Empire Building.
The statement of Mr. B. R. Wise, in a recent
interview with the Australian Star, that Ger-
many probably hopes to have all Australia if it
can get it, or, failing that, that it may try to
arrange an alliance with Japan when the Anglo-
Jap treaty runs out, so that the two Powers may
divide Australia between them, should neither
surprise nor shock any intelligent person. As to
the question whether Germany will one day be
able to lick Britain in a stand-up fight, it is only
necessary to consider these circumstances: (1)
The United Kingdom has 44,000,000 people;
Germany has 61,000,000. (2) The United King-
dom consists of 121,000 square miles, and Ger-
many of 208,000 ; so Germany, on a similar popu-
lation basis, can hold a far greater increase of
population than Britain can. (3) German wealth,
like German population, is outgrowing that of
Britain; and even if no allowance is made
for future growth in numbers, other things
being fairly equal, 60,000,000 taxpayers can
generally find the money and the men to beat
44,000,000 either by land or sea. As a mere
matter of figures, therefore, the invincibility of
Britain may be relied upon a trifle too much. As
regards the morality of Germany’s alleged designs
upon Australia, or any other part of the British
empire or of any other empire, that is not
worth cursing about. Cursing does no good. A
good many generations ago Britain felt the want
of oversea possessions as an outlet for its increas-
ing population, just as Rome, France, Spain and
other countries did before it. With the craving
for elbow-room, it fought anybody or everybody
France, Spain, Holland, Portugal, the Indian
princes—whoever had empty or suitable land to
be stolen or snatched or annexed. Rome did the
same in its period of expansion ; so did France
and Spain. Now Britain is glutted with territory,
and it believes in peace, just as Rome did after
the days of Augustus, and Spain after it had
annexed the best part of a continent and a half.
But Germany is to-day only where Britain was a
long while ago. It wants new territory and elbow-
room, just as Britain did and as every other great
country has done in the beginning of its national
manhood. If it succeeds in building up a great
and prosperous oversea empire at the expense
of Britain or of any other country, then it
will also become fat and contented, and a believer
in peace, and a shocked witness of the ambitions
of its newer neighbors. Among modern coun-
tries, Portugal has done its dash as a great
colonising and conquering and expanding Power,
and lias settled down into the ruck. So has
Spain. So, apparently, has France, despite the
recent acquisition of sundry deserts. So has
Holland, though it still hangs on with a palsied
hand to the tail-end of some torpid foreign posses-
sions. So has Sweden, which once tried to reach
out for what is now the United States and snatched
at Poland, Russia and a lot of Germany; and Den-
mark, which is only too pleased to be allowed to
hang on to Iceland and Greenland, and makes no
attempt to go further afield ; and Turkey, which
is on the retreat; and Italy, which went out of
the foreign expansion trade very long ago. Mean-
while Britain, Russia and the United States are
actively engaged in the empire business, and
Germany, which hasn’t yet had its turn, thinks
of starting. The thing is inevitable, like measles,
and it is no more use to denounce it than to
denounce measles. The old empire-stealers
object, of course, on high moral grounds, but
when they were young empire-stealers their pre-
decessors' also objected on high moral grounds,
and gained nothing by doing so. The much more
rational course is to get together such a defence
force that any new empire-stealer may be con-
vinced that it is cheaper to go and steal elsewhere.
The Fall of Beer.
“The Swimmer,” on the defeat of Bung in
Maoriland :
Now that the elections are over and stricken Beer is
licking its numerous wounds, the time seems opportune
to offer a few remarks on the astounding victory of the
Maoriland Cold Tea party, and the causes thereof. Beer
has been smitten hip and thigh all over the little
Dominion ; 46 electorates have carried an absolute
majority, though not the necessary three-fifths majority,
for Prohibition ; ttiere has been a total increase in the
No-License vote of nearly 31,000 ; eight new dry areas have
been added, and districts confidently supposed to be
strongholds of the Liquor party have carried reduction.
Why? In my opinion, the chief contributing causes to
the temperance success are (1) the energy and splendid
organisation of the No License party ; (2) the female
vote ; (3) the growing disposition of young Maorilanders
to pose as daring innovators and “give Prohibition a
trial ” ; and (4) the resentment felt (in the North Island)
at the fact that the beer trade is there a Jewish monopoly.
This last reason undoubtedly accounts for the reduction
vote in Auckland. Auckland was considered the greatest
stronghold of the Liquor party, but it carried Reduction
nevertheless, and would have almost carried No License
but for the City Central vote. The whole of the Auckland
province liquor trade is practically controlled by three
firms, all of the Ancient Race, and the publicans are, to
all intents and purposes, merely the Hebrews’ servants.
It is doubtful whether there are three free houses in the
city area. As a matter of fact, the beer trade in Maori-
land is such a gamble that it must be a monopoly, and
the Jews are in it because their gambling instincts
are tempted by the immense returns to be secured
if they win. But the Maorilanders dislike Abhaiiam
immensely, and next election Auckland will pro-
bably carry No License. The energy and organisation of
the No License party are wonderful. Its agents were at
it for months before the election, canvassing, distribut-
ing literature, and stumping the country with lecturers.
Beer was denounced from a hundred pulpits every Sun-
day and from every street corner daily ; and it is certain
that before election day every adult voter in Maoriland
had been asked to vote Prohibition. No License and
“ Save the Children” demonstrations were held every-
where, and the papers were daily full of the “ strike out
the top line” advertisement —which is a first-class elec-
tion cry. The No License party brought the drink
question into every electorate, and made it the only
question. The Liquor party spent plenty of money in
advertising, but hadn’t the organisation. At the time
of writing the count for Parnell (Auckland suburban) is
trembling in the balance, and if No License is carried there
the Ellerslie (Auckland) racecourse will be in the dry area.
Personally, I am not impressed with the change the suc-
cess of the temperance party' has wrought in the principal
centres of the Dominion. The continually decreasing
number of hotels has tended in the direction of bad
liquor, poor accommodation (with a few notable excep-
tions) and an incessant crush in all the big hostelries at
the busy times of the day. The closing of the hotels at
10 o’clock has had the effect in Auckland, Christchurch,
Wellington, and Dunedin, of sending these cities to sleep
shortly after that hour. If you arrive in any one of them
at a quarter past 10 you find them in darkness, and it is
sometimes difficult to obtain a bed. But it must be re-
membered that these conditions of life suit the Maori-
landers, for the standard of comfort in Maoriland (in the
big cities, I mean) is considerably' below that prevailing
in the bigger centres of Australia. Life in Maoriland is
altogether slower and duller than in Australia, and the
first thing that strikes an Australian is the absence of the
light and glitter that make Melbourne and Sydney'so
attractive. The No License movement is in the direction
of making things duller still, for when the licensing
committee elections come on, the temperance party, it is
stated, is going to run candidates pledged to the closing
of hotels at (i p.m. (the committee has the power of
altering the hours). In the wholly dry towns the life,
from an Australian point of view, is of the saddest de-
scription, and the temperance hotels are a long 1 way in-
ferior to the ordinary licensed houses. Nevertheless it is
my opinion that Maoriland will carry Prohibition in
another ten years. When it does, the experiment should
be worth watching—from another country.
Touching an Item in Bent’s Cashbook.
The story of how Kirton, of Ballarat, came to
receive £5B from the Vic. Government at the
instance of Bent —or, rather, how he got £5B from
Bent, who debited the amount to “incidental
expenses ” —is a chameleonic story which changes
its color with the light it is presented in, but
never varies its odor. The ancient and fishlike
tale cropped up again in the Vic. Assembly, last
week, in connection with an interchange of in-
civilities by Bent and Prendekgast. This was
the story as presented by Kirton. When he (K.)
was out of Parliament and conducting his business
as an estate agent at Ballarat, the Premier asked
him to buy a block of land thereabouts for
closer settlement, and told him to consider him-
self as agent for the State in the matter.
Kirton recommended the block of land which
was ultimately bought, and received 4 per cent,
commission from theGovernment —but nocommis-
sion from the vendor. Mr. Murray decided to
purchase the land, and knew that he (K.) was act-
ing for the Government. This was Kirton’s story
told for the first time in the House. Jack Mur-
ray’s comment on it was, briefly and emphatically:
“The first time I have heard of it !” Prkndkr-
gast had previously put the “facts” in another
light. “The Premier got £5B passed as commission
for Kirton. The then Minister of Lands (Mr.
Murray) would not pay the amount and it was
charged as ‘unforeseen expenditure’ or ‘incidental
expenses.’ The land that Kirton bought has not
been put to any use.” Bent’s version of the story
was that “Mr. Murray bought the land—his
name is attached to the document as Minister.”
The apparently actual facts are as follow : —Bent
authorised the purchase of the land for closer
settlement, and has not attempted to put it to the
alleged purpose for which it was bought. Mur-
ray, as Minister of Lands, expressed his con-
tempt for the transaction effected in his name by
refusing to charge Kirton’s commission against
the Lands Department. And Bent was (and is)
so completely the master of the public purse that
he paid the £5B to Kirton, and called it “inci-
dental expenses.” With such a person/as Bent
in charge of the Exchequer there can be no limit
to the possibilities of the cash book.
♦
Podsnap of England.
England has dug up a new prize hypocrite. He
is Harold Cox, M.P., and he writes from the
Cobden Club as follows: —
In Australia there is a violent prejudice against In-
dians. This prejudice takes the form of excluding from
the Commonwealth Indian subjects on the ground that
they are unfit to associate with colonials. They are even
forbidden—so far as Australian law can forbid them—to
serve on Australian mailboats. Persons brought up in
this atmosphere of prejudice against the people of India
are obviously unfitted to hold office in that country. So
far from making it easv for Australians to enter the
Indian Civil Service, it would be far better to make them
legally ineligible for any post under the Government of
India or for commissions in regiments serving in India.
That is a beautiful specimen of the conviction
entertained by the Podsnap variety of English-
man, that he and his countrymen are big, gener-
ous individuals with no foolish anti-Asiatic preju-
dices such as the inferior Australian is troubled
with. And then, in a casual way, let us turn to
Rudyakd Kipling, the bard of Imperialism, who
knows the Englishman in India better than most
men, and take an example at random of the Eng-
lishman’s complete freedom from anti-nigger
prejudice. This is from “Kidnapped,” one of the
“ Plain Tales from the Hills” :
When Peythropte, the estimable, virtuous, economical,
quiet, hard-working young Peytiiroppe fell, there was a
flutter through five departments.
The manner of his fall was in this way. He met a Miss
Castries—d’Castriks it was originally, but the family
dropped the d’ for administrative reasons—and he fell in
love with her even more energetically than he worked.
Understand clearly that there was not a breath of a
word to be said against Miss Castries— not a shadow of a
breath. She was good and very lovely—possessed what
innocent people at Home call a “Spanish” complexion,
with thick blue-black hair growing low down on the fore-
head, into a “ widow’s peak,” and big violet eyes under
eyebrows as black and as straight as the borders of a
Gazette Extraordinary, when a big man dies. But—but
_but—Well, she was a very sweet girl, and very pious,
but for many reasons she was “impossible.” Quite so.
All good mammas know what “impossible” means. It
was obviously absurd that Peytiiroppe should marry her.
The little opal-tinted onyx at the base of her finger-nails
said this as plainly as print. Further marriage with
Miss Castries meant marriage with several other Castries
—Honorary Lieutenant Castries, her Papa, Mrs. Eolalik
Castries, her Mamma, and all the ramifications of the
Castries family, on incomes ranging from Its. 175 to
R 5.470 a month, and their wives and connections again.
It would have been cheaper for Peythroppe to have
assaulted a Commissioner with a dog-whip, or to have
burned the records of a Deputy-Commissioner’s Office,
than to have contracted an alliance with the Castries.
It would have weighted his after-career less—even under
a Government which never forgets and never forgives.
Everybody saw this but Peythroppe. He was going to
marry Miss Castries, he was.
That is one sample out of dozens in Kipling’s
works. The girl was good, pious, beautiful, well
brought-up, but she had in her veins a drop of
colored blood, and it would have been cheaper for
Peythroppe to have flogged his superior officer
than to have married her: The Englishman
doesn’t simply object to the Indian in England as
the Australian objects to him in Australia ; in-
stead, the large, rampant, self-satisfied Bull goes
to India, and there publicly and conspicuously
loathes, despises, contemns and throws mud
upon the Indian in the Indian’s own country.
Yet he is convinced all the time that he is
a large-minded individual and wonderfully free
from prejudice, and he takes an amazingly lofty
tone upon the subject. The Australian s attitude
is a mild proceeding compared to the attitude
of the bounding Podsnap of England; yet the
opinion which Podsnap entertains of his own
splendid attitude in the matter is big enough to
fill a tank.
Melbourne’s Suburban Traffic.
As might have been expected, Vic. Railway Com-
missioner Tait, being asked to give his opinion on
expert Merz’s report re the electrification of
Melbourne’s suburban railways, has practically
damned the whole proposed. Tait, of course, like
most of his subordinates, is a “steam” man ; not
only that, but the carrying out of the electrifica-
tion under Merz’s supervision might mean the
temporary relegation of Tait to a secondary
position as far as the metropolitan transport ser-
vice was concerned. Tait, anynow, says “ No.”
Practically the only reason he gives is that Mel-
bourne cannot be expected to keep on grow-
ing as it has the last 15 years, and the
enormous expenditure foreshadowed by Merz
would not be balanced by the receipts. Tait is
partly right; and Tait is partly wrong. There is
no necessity to slavishly follow Merz’s recom-
mendations to the letter; Bent’s only published
idea so far is to borrow a million or two or three
and bog in, and Tait is right in saying that that
plan wouldn’t pay. But there are other ways.
BENThashadlargesurpluses for several years now :
he might use much of the future surpluses in trans-
forming the suburban lines, instead of fooling
the money away in buying the support of
landowners by grants to country municipali-
A Song of the City-that-Ought-to-Be.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Friends and Brethren !
Drink up (or down) your Beer, Wine, Whisky,
Sarsaparilla, Cold Tea, Castor Oil —or what-
ever poison you affect, or the Doctor orders
and listen.
I desire to direct your Mind, Thought, Reason
and Intelligence—in a word, your Attention
to a foolish Mistake —
An Absurd and Lamentable Error—
An altogether Horrid Bloomer which has been
committed on paper, though—thank All the
Gods In China !—not yet wrought into the
Concrete.
I refer to the choice of a Capital—
A Capital for Australia —
A Country, a Continent which many of our Poli-
ticians cannot distinguish from a Solar, or
Spruce, Myth !
Indeed, brethren, some, hazy in their geography,
believe that Australia is in Woolloomooloo;
Others, again, while conceding that such a place,
thing, entity or institution (they are uncer-
tain which) may exist, suppose it to be an
Invertebrate of a Species as yet unclassified !
The Sydney Daily Telegraph postulates Aus-
tralia as a Nebulous Notion or kind of Legal
Fiction, and invariably acts upon that As-
sumption.
To these, Brethren, to the hazy, the lazy, the
mazy, and the Telegraph, I do not appeal.
Let them stew in their stupidity, while we leave
the by-path of Digression for the High Road
of hard Fact.
At the end of that Road, white and shining lies
the City-That-Ought-To-Be.
A City fenced by the eternal hills from the
eternal hates of alien nations ;
A City girdled by the steel-blue waters of a great
and swift river;
A City founded on the slopes of the green valleys
and fruitful with fields and orchards ;
A City of bright flowers and white clouds, of
broad streets and overshadowing trees, of
azure skies and snow-capped peaks ;
A City beneath whose doors lies a Water Gate,
looking out upon triumphant seas which bear
upon their shoulders the commerce of the
great world.
Such, Brethren, was the City we sought for a
Capital, the great political, administrative
and social Centre of our National Life ;
The City Beautiful—Free—Delectable ; the
Pattern City of the modern world.
And after search, and diligent inquiry, and
runnings to and fro for many days we found
the abiding Place wherein to set, whereon to
build, our City !
And by acclamation and proclamation the Place
was fixed, the business agreed upon and done,
and the Matter (we thought) brought to a
Conclusion.
Brethren, we are Fools, Dolts, Idiots, Asses
unspeakable, and Mud-Brained Boobies if—
once having decided as Australians studying
solely the benefit of Australia and her
coming people—we let ourselves be turned
from our purpose—
If we give up the Right and weakly accept the
Ridiculous, the Wrong, the Utterly Inade-
quate and Unfit !
Certain lewd politicians of the basest sort, men
with iron mouths, brass lungs and wooden
heads, seek to destroy our City.
They scheme and plot together ; their hands are
lifted up, their tongues wag and their throats
bellow against. AUSTRALIA —
Crying: “ Damn Australia! What the Hell is the
Commonwealth to us ’! Great is Sydney of the
Importers! ”
And they demand that Australia be given a dung-
hill or a dustheap for the Federal City.
Hear them—snarling, intumescent, contumacious,
insolent —pretending to be the People !
But they are NOT the People.
It is WE, you and I and all of us, Brethren, we
are the People.
Shall we permit Absurd and Lamentable Errors to
be perpetrated ?
Shall our Great and'Beautiful City-That-Is-To-Be
be taken from us, and we receive in its place
a handful of Hovels in a Howling Wilderness?
NEVER!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS WILL BE READY XO RECEIVE IN DECEMBER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
SALE & EXCHANGE LIBRARY for keeping up your
supply of Fresh Subjects. Join it and Save Money.
Send to us or please call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
To achieve prosperity for the Common-
wealth and popularity for themselves, the Fisher
Ministry have simply to adopt the D.C.L. policy,
the same being the progressive measures with
which wise politicians are inspired by embodying
moderate measures of D.C.L. Whisky. D.C.L.
and wise achievements are the happiest of bed
fellows.*
ties. If he must sell land, he might earmark
the proceeds—those million acres of Gippsland
soil he lately babbled of would electrify a good
many miles. There are also thousands of acres
now being sold out Pinnaroo way, in the Mallee ;
that money might be utilised. In fact, there are
a dozen ways of obtaining the needful coin
gradually ; and gradually the lines could be trans-
formed by the men who built the St. Kilda-
Brighton line—the track that, in spite of a
disastrous fire, pays its way and gives a good
service while running through a comparatively
unpopulated district. Certainly, whether Tait
approves or not, and whether it be done by elec-
tricity or otherwise, the acceleration and modern-
ising of Melbourne’s transport system has got to
come. Twenty years ago Melbourne used to scoff
at Sydney, with its cumbrous, inadequate, steam
tram system. To-day the laugh is returned.
Sydney’s tram service is, out of all comparison,
better than Melbourne’s, and so is its suburban
train service. In spite of drawbacks, Melbourne
is steadily spreading outwards, but it spreads
much too slowly. The packed lines of streets in
North Melbourne, Carlton, Fitzroy, Richmond,
Prahran, South and Port Melbourne are still
crowded; the little plots of land, each half the
size of a tennis-court or a bowling-green, carry
their dwellings, occupied often by more than one
family. There is no reason why this should be,
save the solitary one that the house-father cannot
at present get to and from his work in a reason-
able time and at a reasonable figure. Tait could
reduce the present charges, but he knows that the
profitable suburban system would then be incap-
able of carrying on its back the unprofitable and
poorly-paying lines of the rest of the State—lines
that pay poorly or not at all, chiefly because they
wander through the big, unpeopled holdings of
the big landlord, and because cut rates are
adopted in order to drag all traffic to Melbourne.
»
The New Freetrade Leader.
Joseph Cook, the Labor renegade and Demo-
cratic turncoat, who sold his principles and his con-
science for a job in Reid’s State Ministry, has been
elected leader of the Tory party in the House of
Representatives, vice Reid retired. Cook belongs
to a peculiar political class which has been evolved
only in N.S.W., and which is the curse of the State
which it professes to represent. As a State
Minister he was a Freetrader of the worst kind,
and regarded Protectionists with the unutterable
contempt of a superior being. All the same, he
believed in heavy Protection for the N.S.W. beer,
wine, tobacco, sugar and other industries; in
large Protection, in the shape of differential
postal rates, for N.S.W. Freetrade newspapers;
and for extensive Protection, in the shape of
differential railway rates, for almost every indus-
try that N.S.W. possessed. As a Federal member
Joseph Cook is a Freetrader who believes in
Protection for the N.S.W. iron industry at
Lithgow, and for a whole herd of other N.S.W.
industries. He dare not, for the sake of his billet,
demand that the N.S.W. iron industry should
have neither bonus nor Protection, and should be
left to scramble for itself under pure Freetrade
conditions. He wouldn’t dream of seriously
demanding that the N.S.W. beer, wine, sugar,
woollen, tobacco and other industries should be
put on a pure Freetrade basis so that their splen-
did success might prove the truth and advantage
of Freetrade ; he knows that there would be no
success, but that the industries would die miser-
ably. Cook is one among the wretched fossils
who preach Freetrade because it is “English ” or
something like that. He professes for Protec-
tionists the lofty pity that the Archangel
Michael might feel towards a germ. Yet he
only dares to preach Freetrade because he knows
he won’t get it. If he did by any chance bring it
about his constituency would reject him as soon
as it realised the horrors of the business ; and
every other N.S.W. constituency would reject
him also ; and he would be lucky if he could
recover his old job of trucker, or something of
the sort, in a coal-mine. It is the habit of
electing Cook and Wilks and a few other
specimens of their kind that makes N.S.W. an
isolated feature of the Commonwealth. They
hold haughtily aloof from the Protectionists and
still assume to regard Protection as a species of
mania. Also they vote against Protection for the
industries of the other States, and glamor for it
for th(a industries that belong specially to their
own State, and still more to thjsir own electorates.
And they are always professing to see some dark
conspiracy to reserve the blessings of the Pro-
tectionist curse for the industries of Victoria or
S.A., and to heap the curse of the Freetrade
blessing on the industries of N.S.W. Likewise
they demand special rewards and consideration
for N.S.W. on the ground that it made
special .sacrifices for the sake of union by
givine: up the Freetrade it never possessed. The
god-like Freetrader who regards Protectionists
as inferior beings, who says that Freetrade is
an unadulterated blessing and Protection an
unmitigated curse, who is always whining that the
other States are taking an undue share of the
curse and giving his State too much of the bless-
ing, who votes against Protection for the other
States’ industry and for Protection (while still
preaching Freetrade) for his own State’s industry,
is calculated to make any place disliked. And
that is the Cook and Wilks attitude. If N.S.W.
keeps on electing Freetraders like these for a few
years longer it may get Freetrade, on the prin-
ciple that the pitcher which goes too often to the
well is broken at last. Then it will be sorry that
it ever heard of Cook or Wilks or Walker or
Gould, or the rest.
♦
The N.S.W. Cadet and His Bogus Miseries.
The mischievous habit adopted long since by the
N.S.W. provincial press of playing the cadet
movement against whatever democratic Govern-
ment is in power in the Australian Parliament
threatens to become chronic. The Wrongs of the
cadet are represented by the N.S.W. dailies as
second only to those of Ma. As a fact the
Wrongs in question—even as those of Ma—are
illusory. But ceaseless moanings in regard to
them serve the twin purposes of side-stepping
any serious land defence proposals and of foment-
ing hate against the Australian Government in
the indiscriminating minds of the young. And so
the wails of the anti-Australian papers anent the
ill-usage meted out to these lads by the Federa-
tion are unceasing. Said the S. M. Herald
(23/11/’08): —
We thought we had reached a universal agreement that
the cadet was the pivot on whom the development of
military training must turn.
And then it went on to argue that blue ruin
threatened Australia owing to the heartless con-
duct on the part of the new Minister for Defence
in “ confining cadet uniforms to lads over 14
years of age,” preventing more than a certain
limited number “ having access to real rifles,” and
so forth. As to the alleged “ universal agree-
ment, ” it may be noted that while no one wants
to cry down the youngster who goes cadeting
with the laudable object of striking a blow for his
country when he gets old enough, he is not to be
regarded as “ the pivot on whom the development
of military training must turn.” There is only
one pivot in the defence sense for any sane nation
—and that is the training of adult men to
whom the business of war is not a diverting
game, but a duty. The cadet, if he sticks
to soldiering—and for the most part he doesn’t—
may, in the course of a decade or so, be of national
value. But something more is needed. A system
is required for the defence pivot of a civilised
modern country that shall turn out unfailingly
year by year a large number of trained men. The
matured cadet is at his infrequent best a defence
luxury ; the adult citizen soldier is a necessity.
The Herald’s tearful words about the ill-usage of
the cadets are the customary old daily paper
words, and their object is to show that by the
machinations of the “citizen army fanatics” the
“ cadet force is being quickly knocked to pieces, for
the simple reason that all the heart has been taken
out of it.” If the N.S.W. press is to be believed,
the capacity of the indigenous cadet to have the
heart filched from him is well-nigh unlimited.
Almost anything does it, according to the papers
that barrack for him. “Physical drill without
arms ” removes the heart of him. So does
deferred longing for a uniform. Haziness as to
just when all of him is to be supplied with “ real
rifles ” is another factor in the process of heart ex-
traction. A yearly camp of too short duration
dejects him ; also a yearly camp that is not short
enough. Unwillingness on the part of the Aus-
tralian Government to pay for the cadet’s haulage
to Sydney and his maintenance there while
U.S.A. fleet celebrations or similar shivoos are on,
is another cause, allegedly, of the lads losing their
principal internal organs. It is all very foolish,
and, moreover, it is impolitic from the N.S.W.
dailies’ own point of view—assuming, that is, that
they are honest in wishing to see the cadet
movement flourish. Nothing raises more
trouble amongst the lads, and tends more
surely to give them the swelled head that
is ruinous to discipline, than the unceasing
fuss the papers make about their bogus wrongs.
A boy who goes into the military business on the
understanding that he may drop it as soon as he
feels inclined, isn’t a priceless service asset at any
time. Convince him three times a week that he
is a Much-injured Boy, and a Victim of Depart-
mental Folly and Mismanagement, and he be-
comes quite hopeless. The dailies in their efforts
to discredit democratic administration are dealing
the stability of the cadet movement, which they
affect to approve, the deadliest of blows. But
doubtless the dailies don’t worry about that so
long as they get a chance to nag at the political
party they hate.
♦-
Is this the Secret of Bent’s Greatness ?
The Vic. Auditor-General’s report mentions
several probable reasons why Bent continues to
be retained as Premier. They occur in the “ un-
foreseen and accidental expenditure” in the
Treasurer’s vote :
Parliamentary visits to country districts .. £134 8 5
~ inspection of Murray waters 443 17 1
~ ~ Western district lands 272 17 7
>, special trains to Mildura .. 64 4 9
~ ~ ~ to the Murray river 16 13 9
~ motor cars to Western district,
freight on .. .. .. 42 12 6
~ trip to Port Phillip Bay .. 101 1 7
Railway passes to members on opening and
prorogation 698 6 5
The last item is a specially odoriferous scandal,
for there Was no prorogation ceremony last
financial year. Yet vouchers for passes were
issued as usual, and most members got free
tickets for relatives and friends, each voucher re-
presenting two first return tickets for a specified
journey anywhere over the State’s lines. As a
matter of fact, the whole of this expendi-
ture was unjustifiable; a member’s pass will
carry him anywhere, and if his salary is
insufficient to enable him to take his wife with
him or to give her an occasional outing, it should
be raised openly and not in this underhand
fashion. Bent was one of those who bellowed
loudly when the Commonwealth members openly
raised their salaries, yet all the time he was
underhandedly conferring a similar benefit on
State members, and probably getting for himself
a political ad vantage out of it. And the scandal
is growing; for this “unforeseen and accidental
expenditure” has moved up in Bent’s time as
follows:
1903- .. £2106 11 7
1904- 2955 12 2
1905- 4735 17 11
1906- 4644 12 11
1907- 6533 18 2
In more ways than one Bent is an expensive
Premier.
+
Two Studies in Black-and-White.
“ 0.K.” writes :
Melbourne, seemingly, is too busy to notice the moral
bearings of two scandalous cases of false statement which
have been obtruded on public notice during the past few
weeks. The Lee-Balchin case, previously analysed in
The Bulletin, presents itself at last as a travesty of
justice, conducted by the Vie. Crown Law Depart-
ment. Mrs. Lee, having been deserted by her
paramour Balchin, ex-inspector of police, took out
a warrant for- his arrest on a charge of stealing.
She swore that he had levanted with £2OO of her money,
but her admitted object in getting him arrested was to
recover her beloved Balciiin rather than the alleged
money. When he was arrested, and she found that the
criminal law was not a harmless medium for restoring
lost paramours to the yearning arms of middle-aged
females, the reckless prosecutrix declared Balchin to be
innocent and herself a wilful and corrupt perjuress.
Also she accused a private inquiry agent named
Moncrieff of having invented the charge against Bal-
chin which she had put into force. The woman was
undoubtedly a perjuress by her own showing, inasmuch as
her two statements on oath were flatly contradictory, yet
the Crown Law Department chose to assume that her
“ confession ” of perjury and her accusation against Mon-
crieff were necessarily true. On this assumption, Mrs.
Lee was charged with having perjured herself when she
gave evidence against her beloved ex-policeman, though
she might wdth just as much reason have been charged
with perjuring herself to get him out of the Law’s hands.
A ridiculously light sentence—of three months’ imprison-
ment—was all she got for the heinous offence she had laid
to her own account, but, light as it seemed, an attempt
was made to get the woman out of gaol almost as soon as
she got in. And then, after an unaccountable lapse of time,
Moncrieff, the private inquiry agent, was charged with
“subornation of perjury.” The Crown Law Department
prosecuted him on the second statement of Mrs. Lee, the
perjuress, and she came along and repeated it. Also her
daughter corroborated that statement. But Moncrieff,
giving evidence on his own behalf, contradicted the
story of mother and daughter, and the circum-
stantial details of his contradiction were rather
more convincing than the details of the story of
the alleged conspiracy. Anyhow, the jury acquitted
Moncrieff. Therefore, Mrs. Lee, who accused Balciiin
of running away with her £2OO, and, subsequently, in
calling herself a perjuress (which she must be), accused
Moncrieff of persuading her to perjure herself, is now
accused indirectly of having been a perjuress in the
second instance —not in the first instance. Moncrieff told
the jury the woman called upon him with the complaint
that Balciiin had taken “ everything belonging to her,”
and he denied having inspired her to obtain a warrant
for the missing man’s arrest. She accused Moncrieff of
instigating the charge against Balciiin. The jury be-
lieved Moncrieff seemingly. If, then, the Vic. Crown
Law saw fit to prosecute Moncrieff on the statement of a
confessed perjuress, how much more reason is there why
the Department should prosecute the perjuress on the
verdict of the jury that acquitted Moncrieff ! The case asit
standsis an outrageous travesty of justice. The only possible
excuse for the lightness of the sentence on Mrs. Lee was
the Law’s assumption of her having been a weak
woman, controlled by Moncrieff. She now stands
accused by a jury’s verdict of being a doubly dan-
gerous female in that she swore a false and
very serious criminal charge against Moncrieff when she
withdrew her criminal charge against Balciiin. Obviously
there has been a lot of monkeying with the Law in this
trio of criminal prosecutions. The business of the Crown
Law Department should be to drag Justice out of the
dirt and put her on her poor old legs again.
As regards the other scandalous Melbourne case of
“ black-and-white ” swearing, in which also the moral
tone of the community is in question : Miss Sutherland,
an energetic spinster who, for 28 years, conducted a home
for orphaned and neglected children —a home that grew
into a State-subsidised charity with an influential Board
of Control—Miss Sutherland, who bad always figured in
newspaper reports as an angel of sweetness and mercy,
was shifted from her billet by the people who should
have been in a position to know' most about her, on
account of her alleged insobriety and occasional cruelty
to the infant inmates of her home. The Bent Govern-
ment, at the instance of Miss Sutherland, appointed a
Commission of Inquiry into the charges made against her,
and a number of witnesses were called on both sides,
The witnesses unfavorable to Miss Sutherland made her
out to have been considerably addicted to drink and small
acts of violence of late .years. Miss Sutherland and her
witnesses, in so far as they clashed with the accusers, prac-
tically belied their damaging assertions. The Commission
of Inquiry found that the'charges were “Not Proven.”
Whereupon somebody organised a public demonstration
of sympathy with Miss Sutherland at Melbourne Town
Hall, and this gathering of citizens carried reso-
lutions calling upon the Government to reinstate Miss
Sutherland in her old position, and pay the expenses of
her defence. After which the Age published a sub-
leader, starting with the dictum that “Public opinion
will cordially endorse the resolutions carried at the Town
Hall meeting.” What does Public Opinion know about
Miss Sutherland ? It knows that a number of
reputable people have alleged her unfitness for
the position she was removed from. And it
knows, or ought to know, that the resolutions
carried at that public meeting were practically a charge
of perjury against Miss Sutherland’s accusers, and an
indictment of the honesty of those people who should
have been in the best position to learn the truth about
Miss Sutherland before they got her removed. Further-
more, Public Opinion can see for itself that Miss Suther-
land is fairly strong in accusation. She told the meeting
she was the victim of a conspiracy of people who wanted
her out of the way in order that they could waste the
funds of the institution. “In a great number of
charities," said she, “ a lot of the money never reaches
the children or the poor. The good of the children is not
at the bottom of this. They want to invite ladies up
there and show off. When I was there they could not
spend ss. on anything that was not for the benefit of the
children.” From such conflict of injurious assertions,
Public Opinion can form only one conclusion. The find-
ing of a verdict of “Not proven” in Miss Sutherland’s
case was unsatisfactory—a mere monkeying with justice.
Nevertheless, there were definite libellous charges made
against Miss Sutherland, and the people who made them
deserved either official condemnation or justification.
The question of truth was at issue, and Bent’s Commis-
sion carefully avoided it.
When G. Reid looked at the Victorian “ Year
Book,” part X., just issued, no wonder he made
up his mind that it was about time to turn up his
hopeless job of Freetrade leader. Here, for in-
stance, are a few comparisons as regards Victorian
manufactures, brought together from under their
various headings :
1906. 1907.
(The Tariff that (The Lyne
Reid Cut Dow'n.) Tariff.)
Pickles, pints.. .. 889,938 1,253,380
Sauce, pints .. .. 2,943,380 3,257,471
Spirits, proof gallon.. 94,674 375,183
Candles, cwt... .. 43,094 47,688
Boots, wages paid, £.. 332,538 368,503
Flannel, yds. .. ■. 3,637,846 4,088,383
Blankets .. .. 146,628 199,743
Rugs .. .. .. 8,383 12,089
In the year after Federation arrived, and before
the Victorian State tariff was knocked on the head,
181,522 calf-skins were tanned in Victoria, mostly
to make the higher classes of boots and shoes.
Then G. Reid and his party whittled away at
Kingston’s tariff, and the Victorian boot manu-
facturers could only keep a grip on the rougher
trade in boots—the foreigner cut in with the
higher grades. By 1906, therefore, the number of
calf-skins tanned" had slid gradually down to
132,210. Last year, with the tariff revised, there
was promptly a jump to 188,070 ; and that meant
a wholesale revival of the trade in the higher
grade of boots and shoes. Same with distilleries.
In 1901 the output was 490,550 gallons. By 1903
it had been knocked down headlong to 41,083
gallons. And after doing that sort of thing for
Victorian industries, the Sydney person complains
bitterly that Victorians won’t take G. Reid as a
serious statesman ; and the Sydney person of the
narrow-minded breed puts it down to the Vic-
torian’s inherent bad manners and general
cussedness.
An item that arouses some comment in the Yic.
State Auditor-General’s report is the vote to
Treasurer Bent for “accidental and unforeseen
expenditure.” Year by year the vote has swelled
until it has reached the rotund figure of £6533 ;
and year by year more items, which are not
“unforeseen,” but clearly premeditated, are
being shoved into it. As the Auditor-General
points out, such items ought to be included in the
Treasurer’s miscellaneous votes ; but the cheerful
and horrid Bent doesn’t worry. He has piled up
“accidental and unforeseen” expenditure from
£2106 in 1903-4 to the above-mentioned amount
for 1907-8, and at that rate of progress
there is no knowing where Adolphus may get to.
The details of the latest vote make a fair amount
of noise. No less than £1895 has been appro-
priated for Parliamentary tours with the usual
luxurious etceteras. Free railway passes—other
than those issued to State M’s.P. —have absorbed
£854. In addition, £622 is set down as the cost
of the recent Premiers’ Conference. But the
funniest item of all in the list reads :
in connection with Parliamentary ‘ welcome
home ’to Thomas Bent, £56.” Bent had tore-
present Parliament as perishing from gratitude
for his safe return from his sudden trip to Eng-
land, and so, as usual, he made the country stand
the racket for the liquor that was' swilled in his
honor. But people mustn’t make a fuss about a
thing like that. Bent never does. He says it’s
“ paltry.” Everything Bent says is paltry.
♦
Amongst the things the N.S.W. Forestry Com-
mission found out in its recent leisurely overhaul
of the timber business was that the State Govern-
ment is a mean sweater. Forest guards get an
allowance of from £35 to £4O a year for “ equip-
ment ” ; that is to say, they have to feed one or
two horses and keep two or three, and maintain
a vehicle. The Under-Secretary for Lands ad-
mitted that it is “impossible to do it on the
allowance ” ; and when the Commission followed
that up with : “And these forest guards are col-
lectors of revenue?” all that the U.-S. could
answer was, “I think they should receive an
adequate allowance.” One man, who had been a
forest guard and had been promoted, said he
couldn’t keep going on the allowance, so, as the
State didn’t pay him what he had to spend, and as
he evidently didn’t care about putting some of the
revenue he collected into his own pocket, he had to
mix the forest-guard job with horse-dealing in his
spare time. Another forester explained why the
Forestry Department probably thought it couldn’t
afford to pay a proper allowance. A timber-getter
had been caught branding some logs got in State
forests with the letters “P.P.”—the brand used
for timber chopped down on private property. “I
pointed out to the Bench,” he said, “ the serious
fraud involved in the offence, and laid stress on
the frequency of such attempts to defraud the
revenue. The offence was admitted. The Bench
inflicted a fine of Is. /” After that plain expres-
sion of the honorarium’s sympathy with the
robbers of the State, no wonder the forester had
to report “ increasing frauds, which it would take
half-a-dozen officers to stop in this district.” And
the same honorariums apparently still grace the
Bench—anyway, it isn’t recorded that anything
sudden happened to them or their commissions.
-♦
S. M. Herald last week spoke a piece on the
subject of medicated plasters. Some time ago the
Sydney Customs House issued an order making
medicated plasters dutiable at 15 per cent. A
firm of plaster importers immediately rushed down
to demand what the Customs people meant by
charging the duty, when, so the glue merchants
alleged, Lyne had promised during the tariff
debate to place the things on the free list. The
harried Customs replied that it Wasn’t responsible
for any alleged promise—all it had to do was to
carry out the law, ,and, according to its reading of
the law, plasters were dutiable at 15 per cent.
Next someone sooled Liddell, the N.S.W.
Foreign-trade blatherer, on to then Prime Minister
Deakin, who replied that special inquiries were
being made. Says the Herald :
The next stage of the proceedings was a significant one.
A Sydney firm had a call from a Customs officer seeking
information as to the manufacture of the line in
question in Australia. He was informed that, as
far as was known, no one in Sydney manufac-
tured plasters, but something was believed to be
done in a small way in Melbourne. On November 4
an order, signed by the Acting Comptroller-General, was
issued, directing that in future medicated plasters were
to be treated as adhesive plasters, and admitted free
under item 296 of the tariff. ... It shows how open is the
DOOR FOR BACKSTAIRS INFLUENCE IN MELBOURNE.
So it seems, from the Herald’s story, that the
Government regarded plasters as dutiable until it
learned that they weren’t manufactured in
N.S.W. Then backstairs influence was used in
Melbourne, apparently either by the Sydney
importers or by Dr. Liddell, and the blessed
things were put on the free list. The Herald
distinctly implies that, as soon as it was ascer-
tained that plaster-making was only a Victorian
industry—which naturally didn’t matter—the
duty came off to oblige the Sydney importers,
and on its statement the matter calls for a whole
ot of inquiry.
O
Premier Ward, of Maoriland, has recently let
himself go regarding the defences of his Dominion.
Compulsory training, he said, would mean the
creation of a system of militarism which the
country ought not to tolerate. Besides :
No sane man who knows anything about outside con-
ditions would ever suggest the possibility or practicability
of an army coming from abroad to this country. It is too
udicrous for words.
May be; but armies have travelled far in days
when sea transport was a great deal slower and
more difficult than it is now. A lot depends, no
doubt, on what Ward calls an army. It would
not need half-a-dozen army corps to terrorise
Maoriland. A single weak brigade of some 5000
men would suffice to effectively occupy either
Wellington or Auckland, long before sufficient
force could be collected to drive them away ; and
then the answer of the invaders might be: “If
you attack us we’ll burn the town, and hang the
Governor, and Joe Ward, and the Ministers, and
the Commandant.” That, of course, would only
be a raid , and military experts have told Ward
that is the only thing he has to fear ; yet obviously
even araid isn’t anything very attractive, especially
for the man whose neck is going to be broken.
If, however, it were known that in each of
Maoriland’s cities 6000 or 8000 trained men were
ready to turn out at an hour’s notice to oppose
the raiders, there would be no raid, and Joe Ward
wouldn’t be hanged.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
■%nd accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
u __ SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “ Twelfth Night.”
Criterion “ Faust.”
Palace “ Struck Oil.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Riekards’Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Belle of New York.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Prisoner of Zenda.”
Theatre Royal “ Jim the Penman.”
Kino’s “ Night Birds of London.”
Bijou “ The Private Secretary.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirtii’s Park Wirth’s Bros. Show.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
“A Message from Mars,” revived by
H. R. Roberts and co. at Sydney Palace, is the
same entertaining and unequal sermon that W.
F. Hawtrey and his band of mimes preached to
Australia some years ago. Retirement doesn’t
seem to have either dimmed its bright passages
or exaggerated its inconsistencies, so, by reason
of the Great Moral Lesson with which it is under-
stood to be loaded, it will probably enjoy a green
old age of occasional revivals. Still it will do so
under many difficulties. In striving to let Horace
Parker down lightly, the dramatist commits a
violent and unprovoked attack on common sense,
and is grossly unfair to most of his principal
characters. The central idea of the play—that a
selfish and egotistical young man can have his
disposition turned permanently inside out
through the agency of a vivid dream—is simply
shouting a useless defiance at the well-known
leopard and his numerous spots. In Act 11., the
division of the play which is all dream and no
reality, Horace’s whole circle of acquaintances are
put to base uses in order that Horace in the last
act may be a prig or something verging upon that
animal. They are made to say uncharitable
things about him and to exult over his misfor-
tunes ; his promised wife is shown accepting the
proposal of the nice young man who acted as
escort in his unnecessary absence; and, as a final
insult, the nice young man, on a return to reality
in Act 111., has to suffer a violent change of char-
acter and be represented as a heartless cynic and
something of a boor. All this for the further
glorification of Horace, who wakes up with his
house unburnt, his bank unbust, his £BO in notes
Still in his pocket-book, and all his good clothes
on. In addition to all this, he gets his girl back,
his gentlemanly rival is vanquished, a whole
boarding-house has to accept his charity, and he is
tumbled to reprove his excellent aunt for heartless-
uess, so that the moral of the Great Lesson may get
tn its knock-out blow. “Be Selfish and Dream ” is
the real Message brought to earth by the brown
.Martian with the iron collar round his forehead.
■**••**
H. R. Roberts, as Horace Parker, is
(fairly convincing until the tide of fortune, which
>has been ebbing steadily for two acts, comes back
fin Act 111. in an overwhelming flood of sentiment
.and unreality, and swamps the play. The part is
a difficult one ; in Act I. he has to exaggerate to
;alienate the sympathy of the audience ; and in
Act 111. he has to exaggerate again to recover
ithat doubtful asset with interest. Frank Lamb,
:as the tramp, has to follow in W. F. Hawtrey’s
•artistic footsteps; but as Lamb’s tramp is allowed
to wander through the story in a natural manner,
lie doesn’t suffer even from the recollection of the
artist who went before. Lamb’s performance is
noticeably good. A. E. Greenaway’s main busi-
ness as the Messenger is to be domineering and
j humorless. One feels a certain amount of sympa-
j thy with Parker for being forced to squander his
dream evening with an immortal who cannot jest.
Beatrice Usher as Miss Parker, Fanny Erris as
Minnie Templer, and Vera Remee as Mrs. Clar-
ence have the three most important women’s
Parts in the play, but the hat-pin sex is allowed
lew opportunities. Miss Usher makes a gracious
•And refined, but rather juvenile, Aunt, and the
Other two ladies twinkle in a subdued manner
■•when they are allowed to. Fred Francis (Arthur
(Dicey), Frank Peachey (Policeman), and W. G.
Charles (Mr. Ferguson) have just sufficient work
4o lift them a little above the mass of lay figures,
und that little is done conscientiously in each case.
The “Message” will be delivered for the last
time on Friday night; on Saturday H. R.
Roberts will, in conjunction with Maggie Moore,
revive “Struck Oil.” Oil is a painful subject
since the Standard Trust came into existence,
4nd the U.S. Uncivil War, to which old John
Stofel shambles with his antiquated gun, is aged
history these days.
* * * Wr
“ The Merry Widow’s ” fling in Sydney is
to last over 12 weeks, of which 10 have sped.
‘The Duchess of Dantzig,” now well on the
rocky road of rehearsal, will arrive a week before
Christmas and elbow the other lady out of Her
Majesty’s.
** * *
The National Opera Co. staged “Faust”
at Sydney Cri. on Saturday night, with Mrs.
31apoffski and Wilson Pembroke in the leading
rdles. On Monday, Rosina Buckmann played
Marguerite, and Edward Wynne was Faust.
It would be hard to find a Marguerite in
*iny stock European combination outside the
great capitals more wholly satisfactory than
Mrs. Slap. This artist has the voice, the
method and the temperament ; and she acts
•well at all times. Rosina Buckmann looks
the serenely innocent Teuton maiden to perfec-
tion, and she plays the part sweetly. She sings
-with brilliancy in the upper register, but
jack of power handicaps her in Marguerite’s
•fower and middle notes. Neither Wilson
Pembroke nor Edward Wynne has a grand
■ajpera tenor. Withal both have voices worth
afoing a long way to hear. Pembroke is an
Artistic singer and an actor of some merit, and the
imie (pace his passion for the falsetto note and
f»is exasperating habit of “ making eyes ”) applies
to Wynne. Aileen Hodgson is a surprisinglv
good Siebel, and McNaughton Duncan (Valen-
tine) gets every ounce out of his lines, and sings
pleasingly, albeit with an oft-recurring suggestion
•hat the music is over-weighty for him. But out
Gnd away the most effective acting is supplied by
Smil Greder, to whom has been allotted the
“fat” part of Mephisto. His serenade is the
most interesting solo item of the show. The
chorus, brushed up by Mr. Slapoffski and with its
feeart palpably in its work, is itself once more—
-ivhich is to say that it is excellent. The mount-
ing and costuming of the new production are
i ahead of anything else achieved by the National
Opera Co. to date.
The whip that erst o’er Katharine cracked
will be folded up and stowed away in the silent ie-
cesses of Sydney Royal property room at 10.cS0
p.m. (or thereabouts) on Friday night next,
on the following Saturday “ Twelfth Night is to
be staged, with Margaret Anglin as Viola.
Already the local Shakspearians are perking up
and taking an interest in life, for Margaret
Anglin in a r6le of romance is passing good, and
Viola is as sweet a romanticist as the drama
knows.
*# * *
Philip Newbury’s Sydney audiences would
turn down the strange gods in music any night for
the sake of the old gods as interpreted by P.
Newbury. And the proceeding is much to the
credit of the tenor’s listeners. La Donna e
Mobile,” “Maud,” the “Home to our Moun-
tains ” duet from “II Trovatore,” are not really
venerable in years, but they are secure in the
protection of the phrase “firmly-established
favorites.” The duet sung by Newbury and
Mrs. Spada was so wildly applauded at Satur-
day’s concert that another was extracted from
the singers—“ The Keys of Heaven ” duet, with
which the Butt-Rumford pair used to get so busy,
and in which the wooer tempts the lady with
everything but a motor-car. Miss Estelle Mabel
Ward’s fine contralto was lifted artistically as
usual in Gounod’s “ The Worker.” Among other
artists assisting were Mr. R. L. Nield, Mr. H.
Staell, Miss A. Haywood, and Miss Violinist
Edith Moses.
** * *
Fifty bright-looking girls from the GarcLa
School of Music opened their mouths in melody
at the Town Hall last week, when they helped to
produce “Ruth” for the first time in Sydney.
Rarely has such fresh tuneful singing been heard
in oratorio. Small though the party was it was
fully equipped for effective work, and the concert
was a complete success. Misses Gertrude Hogan,
Josie Miles, Ruby Henry and Zillah Harrison
formed the front rank of these singing birds. A
capital male chorus and a good orchestra, led by
Cyril Monk and conducted by W. Asprey, put the
gilded coping stone on the melodious edifice.
* * *
According to the managerial advertise-
ment, Sydney Tivoli this week parts reluctantly
with Duncan’s collie dogs and the musical
McGregors. On the subject of what reinforce-
ments are coming forward to fill up the ranks it
preserves a dead silence. In the meantime, the
fort is being held principally by Frank and Jen
Latona, Goodfellow and Gregson, J. W. Rickaby,
Guest and Newlyn, and Tom Dawson. The
opening ceremony, entitled “A Palace of Cards,”
has become a confirmed habit.
-* * * *
Adelaide is in the grip of the Moving
Picture. This kind of show, with a little variety
business thrown in, and a shilling as the maximum
admission-charge, now occupies the Hippodrome,
and the Pavilion, and the “ Continental ” Gardens
outside the Exhibition. The Tivoli, after making
a biograph its leading feature by way of opposi-
tion, has decided to close its doors for the present,
and Brandon Cremer is to act as manager of the
Continental Gardens instead. Concerts also have
been somewhat overdone, and Mark Hambourg’s
audiences at the Town Hall were more enthusi-
astic than numerous. “Miss Hook” pulled
through her second week at the Royal. It is a
dainty piece, but the least funny comic
opera seen for a long time. The humor
is essentially that of London; for one thing,
Australia does not allow itself to sneer quite so
savagely at the unemployed. The co. has bumped
into several motor and other accidents; also it
encountered a streak of weather which made
Mina’s 15 petticoats rather a trial to her. Now,
under more cheerful conditions, and with Lizette
Parkes added to the cast, it is presenting a
frivolous modern perversion of “Romeo and
Juliet, ” full of Gibson Girls and Leslie Stuart’s
music—'“The Belle of Mayfair.”
** & *
“ Jim the Penman,” revived at Melbourne
Royal last Saturday, is perhaps the strongest of
modern domestic melodramas. James Ralston be-
longs to a cosmopolitan band of schemers. They are
a feasible syndicate, and Jim Ralston is the in-
fallible artist who executes the forgeries. The
first act shows Mrs. Ralston entertaining some
of the “nicest” people, and just here one is re-
minded of the home of Mr. Merdle, the embezzler,
in “ Little Dorritt.” Young Lord Drelincourt is
making love to Miss Ralston ; Captain Redwood,
the lord’s friend, is making a great display of
chronic drowsiness. The ex-army captain, with
the habit of falling asleep in polite society, is a
police agent on Ralston’s track. Lewis Percival
arrives from America. He was Ralston’s youth-
ful friend, and the first sweetheart of Mrs. Ral-
ston. Also, he reveals himself presently as the vic-
tim of a forgery, thought tohave been committed by
the mysterious Penman. Baron Hartfeld appears
on the scene—a demoniacal-looking Hebrew. He
is chairman of the Forgery Committee. In an in-
terview with Ralston, after the other guests have
retired, he upbraids that splendid craftsman for
having shirked his job of late, and then promises
him that the committee will dissolve and leave
the Penman to a calm enjoyment of his wealth
and honors —after one more coup. The prize aimed
at is young Lord Drelincourt’s family diamonds.
Redwood, “sleeping” in the conservatory, has
overheard this conversation, but—and here is a
weak spot—he doesn’t go to the bank next morn-
ing to arrest the person who brings the forged
order for the Drelincourt diamonds. Had he
done so, he would have arrested the career of the
drama. He allows the fraud to be carried out,
and the diamonds get into Hartfeld’s possession.
Mrs. Ralston and her old sweetheart, Percival,
discover that their engagement in the long ago
was broken off by forged letters. Each be-
lieved the other faithless because the
forged letters told them so. Drelincourt,
having become affianced to Miss Ralston,
finds that the family gems have been “shook.”
Captain Redwood tells Percival that he will
be* able to charge Ralston with the forgery
of the cheque whereby his (Percival’s) fortune
was drawn from the bank in America. But
Percival declines to be a party to the disgrace
of his old sweetheart’s husband and family. Inci-
dentally Mrs. Ralston discovers that her husband
was the forger of the letters which blighted her
young love. Presently she discovers that he is
Jim the Penman.
* * * *
So she turns cat on her husband, and but
for her children would proclaim his true character.
She is improbable, but not impossible under the
circumstances. Ralston has been elected for Par-
liament. Drelineourt has just married Miss
Ralston. Baron Hartfeld offers to sell the Drelin-
court diamonds back to the weary Penman for
£75,000. When Hartfeld goes to fetch the
diamonds from his turret room in the Ral-
ston mansion they are gone. Captain Red-
wood has done the trick. Ralston gives
Redwood £lO,OOO for the hereditary gauds,
and as for the balance of £65,000 which he
would have had to pay for the stolen property, he
promises the detective that it shall be a trifling
act of restitution to Percival, the sentimentalist.
Later, the euchred Demon Baron assaults his
superb fellow-trickster. Blows are exchanged.
Jim the Penman drops into his chair dead of
heart disease. The Demon Baron, having robbed
the corpse of the odd £65,000 in bank notes, is
about to get away with the spoil when Redwood
nabs him. Wedding guests walk in and discover
the corpse in the chair.
.+* * * *
Five of the characters provide good acting
parts. Gaston Mervale is strikingly effective, in
a matter-of-fact manner, as the Demon Baron.
The character is intensely melodramatic, the
make-up is repulsive, the acting natural. Har-
court Beatty presents the Penman as a handsome
Family Journal forger, and without attempting
to suggest any depth of feeling he puts a good
deal of force into his performance. James
Lindsay scores easily as the languid Captain
who is tremendous when he drops his mask.
Wingfield is gloomily and stodgily impres-
sive as the chivalrous Percival, and Boyd
Irwin makes a smart lordship. Some of the other
men help to atone for the sin of somebody who
impersonates Ralston junior. Miss Nellie Mor-
tyne plays a decorative titled visitor of some im-
portance. Miss Gunn is only passable as the
ingenue daughter of the house, and Miss Madge
Mclntosh, always an interesting actress, has scope
for much improvement on her first-night perform-
ance of Mrs. Ralston, who is a difficult lady to
represent in a truly womanly manner.
* # * -;U
At Wirth’s Park the weather seems to be
doing its best for the management. The tent
where Philip Wirth gives object lessons in horse-
training and other things from time to time is an
inviting place on a hot night. The side shows in
the open are even more attractive. Given a
succession of heat waves, the Park should appeal
to the perspiring Melbourne populace as a com-
paratively cool retreat.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), the coming
revival of “ The Prisoner of Zenda” is being pre-
ceded by “ The Lady of Lyons.” Julius Knight,
as Claude Melnotte, was to misrepresent himself
as the Prince of Pilsen (or is it Como?) for the
first time last night, and for the next two nights
Miss Ola Humphrey will take him at his deceitful
word for better or for worse. He’s an absurd sur-
vival of an artificial literary age, is Widow
Melnotte’s romantic offspring. He talks on stilts
with a voice which, as a rule, is much older
than his mother’s, for his mother is a minor
character, and the stage old women of no im-
portance are usually at the outset of their careers,
whereas no competent Claude is a chicken.
But he stands for a great fact in human
nature, does Claude. He’s a first-class lover
because he is a whole-souled liar. A lot of Mel-
bourne girls will be glad to see him again. It
was, in fact, chiefly on their account that the
gallant management decided to trot him out
for three nights only. On Saturday, when
“Zenda” comes back to notice. Miss Beatrice
Day is to make her first appearance with the co.
She will wear the impressive garments and regal
mien of Princess Flavia, the lady who adores
Julius Knight but doesn’t marry him. This is
generally regarded as a wonderful feat of self-
denial on the heroine’s part. •
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou a deluded spinster
continues to mistake Rev. Frank Thornton for a
KIPPLE STEPHENSON
as Mr. Marsland, M.F.H.,
in " The Private Secretary."
“medium,” whilst he regards that
deah lady as a private lun-a-tic
who thinks she is swimming.
The roaring uncle from India
also conducts himself as be-
fore, together with the
intermittent tailor, the
heavy father in a limp
red coat and whiskers,
the two pairs of
alleged the
prancing landlady.
Of these other people
the tailor strikes one
as being the best
judge of humor. He’s
an incredible charac-
ter, ’out he commits
his social outrages
as though he saw no
joke in them. Uncle
Cattermole and
others have a little
too much of the
spirit of farcical
comedy in their per-
formance. It wants
diluting with cold
water. Nevertheless
there is some re-
gard for moderation
in their energy and
push, and take them
altogether they com-
pare not unfavor-
ably with one or
two previous com-
panies engaged on
the same job. “ The
Private Secretary ”
promises to do busi-
ness at the Bijou
for another week or
two.
Misled by a premature advt. The Bulletin
stated in its last issue that “ The Belle of New
York” would succeed “Pilsen” at Melbourne
Princess’s. The statement is now withdrawn.
“ The Red Mill ” was revived last Saturday with
Harold Parkes as Fred Leslie’s accomplice in
place of the original Ford, who was very much the
same thing as his furious colleague. Parkes is
sufficiently volatile in a different way. On the
girl side of the transaction the temporary absence
of Miss Alma Barber from the Co. is a matter for
mud regret. She will, presumably, return to
notice next Saturday (sth), when the postponed
‘‘Belle of New York” is to follow on. The
“ Belle ” will bang her tambourine for the last six
nights of the season. Also another matinee of
“The Liars ” will transpire on Saturday. Lady
Dudley, it seems, has expressed a charitable
curiosity to witness the interesting struggles of
the amateurs who dealt with H. A. Jones’ comedy
a fortnight ago. Therefore they have resumed
their studies, and will present themselves for
further examination—this time in aid of the
Dramatic Fund.
FRANK THORNTON
as the Rev. Robert
Spalding in
“ The Private
Secretary.”
“ The Night Birds of London,” revived at
Melbourne King’s, is 4101-e crudely violent and
more openly depraved than one or two of its
immediate forerunners. Laurence Dunbar, in
comparison with former enormities, is as swift and
sultry as a glacier. For Laurence’s dandy
ambition, as Robert Carlton, is not so much the
acquisition of muslin as of money; so his
acute badness is little relieved by picturesque
streaks of red. He is but a subdued pursuer
of skirt, and glides in its vicinity from mere
motives of loot. For that reason, apparently,
he churns up Mrs. Marion Joyce’s marital rela-
tions into lovely chaos, so that the lady (Miss
Duggan) has full excuse for her gusts of emotion.
Miss Duggan gives the character a substantial
weight, and puts much resplendent emphasis
into it. George Cross is the stage parent of
the usual stage nipper—the prayerful mons-
trosity in a velvet suit—and endures the
wallops of a krool world with Christian patience.
Albert Bailey is one of those unregenerate
prattling chappies, who do silly things in an ex-
quisite, well-born way, and Temple Harrison and
Edmund Duggan are two scamps who look equal
to assassinating nothing more than English syntax.
Miss May Granville’s conception of an adventuress
is rather doughy and ponderous ; while Miss Kate
Gair, as a mad woman, is an unconvincing comic
picture. Miss Lena Langridge plays the part of
a singing girl, and two child characters receive
the attention of the precocious Churches and
Posner infants, the latter of whom, by the way,
is getting into the heavyweight division of child
exponents by now.
* #
West’s Pictures had something instructive
to say about Bulgaria at Melbourne Olympia last
Saturday night. Folk were given glimpses of
Sofia, the capital—a city of. big, open spaces and
large brown people—and were then shown Bul-
garia’s army, presumably at its annual manoeu-
vres. Infantry, cavalry, and artillery, neatly
equipped and in dense masses, were march-
ing, charging, and performing all sorts of
evolutions. They descended defiles, forded
steeply banked streams, and rushed over the
country in a way which suggests that Bulgaria is of
no small military importance in the Balkan
scheme of things. The work of the cavalry and
artillery was especially noticeable for the good
order maintained under all conditions.
** * *
Some of the new “ turns ” long needed at
Melbourne Opera House were brought to light
last Saturday ; nevertheless the local river didn’t
burst into flames. The beautiful work of two
young strong girls from Germany is almost too
good to be fully appreciated by the crowd, yet it
isn’t sufficiently new to make a stir in the
land. One fraulein is larger and stronger than
the other, but both of them are pictures
of feminine muscular development, and their
acrobatic feats are graceful at every turn. Chris-
tofolo, another new turn, is apparently a youth in
the juggling and hand-balancing lines of business.
He walks upside down more deftly than he juggles.
For the rest the performance is mostly what it
was last week ; the Marionettes, in their “Coon
Revelries,” being the most interesting feature of
the show.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :—
Previously acknowledged .. £113 15 5
•T.P. .. 5 0
Billy (Queensland) .. .. .. 5 0
“ Steel Rail ” .. .. .. 5 0
Gerald McDermott .. .. .. ,10
North Queenslander .. .. 5 0
E. D. O’Dwyer .. .. .. 10 0
£115 16 5
“O.K.”: It always seems to me that
newspapers conspire with Ministers to give them
an appearance of working when they are only
playing at Importance in a luxurious manner.
For instance, Bent, these times, is just waiting
for the Parliamentary recess. His awful mis-
government of Victoria is practically at a stand-
still. But he gets paragraphs of this kind into
the papers
A visit will be paid to Maryborough by the Premier
next week. Mr. Bent will inspect the gaol there,
which has been suggested as suitable for a reformatory
prison under the Indeterminate Sentences Act.
Is the public such a fool as to suppose that
Bent’s “inspection” of Maryborough Gaol is a
necessary proceeding ? He knows all about that
costly institution. He talked about it, and
its staff of warders, and its lack of prisoners wjien
he first posed as the practical retrenchment mem-
ber of the Irvine Ministry. And if he didn’t
already know all about it from personal observa-
tion he could get all the facts from an official
report. Now, if Bent had any intention of spend-
ing a long recess in Maryborough Gaol with the
forlorn hope of working his own reformation, the
matter would be worthy of a par,


'• i
L
Just unpacked from the ship’s hold are 120
high-grade Panamas from South America.
These were specially well bought, and we can
honestly say they are well worth 255.
They have all the fpialities of the present
day Panamas, the narrow brim, the even,
clean plait, and good bleach. The lightness,
general adaptability, and coolness makes the
Panama an ideal hat for our summer. Call and
see these. We show some in our windows,
others in the department. If you cannot
call, we send them, carriage paid, throughout
the Commonwealth.
Sizes from to 7£; brims, 2|in. to 3|in.
DAVID JONES, LTD
Sydney.
•9
Mr. W. Cox, Humffray Street, Ballarat,
Vie., writes: “I have been a great sufferer from
rheumatism, and having obtained the greatest
relief by the use of Chamberlains lain Balm I
cannot speak too highly of it. Whenever I feel
the rheumatic pains coming on, I give the affected
parts a few applications and it always arrests the
attack. I know several people who have used
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm and they all speak in
the highest praises of it.”
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
TAKEN AT A DISADVANTAGE.
PERCY: “ When he stwuck you did you stwike
him back ?”
OSWALD: “I weally couldn’t. I had a ciga'wetle
in my hand.”
Love breaks out in strange fashions and
developments. A few days ago William John
Thomas, of Goulburn (N.S.W.), asked a girl to
be his happy bride. She said she wouldn’t be his
happy bride to any great extent. This so in-
vigorated William John Thomas that he threw an
axe at his mother, chased another woman with a
deadly weapon, kicked a policeman real hard in
the stomach, and fought the constabulary force of
Goulburn in a large general way for five minutes.
The victim of unrequited affection is now doing
six months.
Wade’s passion for law and Costs was
conspicuous again last week. A man had been
fined £1 and Costs, in default two months, for
an offence against some Mining Act. He appealed,
and provided a surety for the payment of the fine
and Costs. He lost the appeal, and went to gaol
rather than pay up. After serving one week, the
Governor ordered the remission of the balance of
the sentence, and the man was discharged, ihe
Attorney-General —which is Wade—then took the
extraordinary course of suing the surety to recover
the fine—although the man had elected to go to
gaol, and the Governor had let him out. 1 lainly
if Wade had any grievance at all it was against
Governor Rawson. Darley, C. J., after delicately
pointing out that the form of surety was bad, pro-
ceeded to explain to Wade what he thought of
the case, and wound up by saying that he was
“ utterly at a loss to understand how the Crown
came to take these proceedings.” Justice Bring,
concurring, said that the contention of the Crown
in the case was sufficient to startle any court of
justice. Then the “Crown” retired to pick itself
up, and N. S. Wales went on grafting to provide
Wade with more money for more similar foolish-
nesses.
* * * *
Justice Pring, sitting on N.S.W. Full
Court Bench, spiked another gun in the battery
of Wade's Liquor Act, by quashing a conviction
obtained against a Hay publican. A man was
found playing dice in a Hay pub after midnight,
and Bung was convicted, the charge being tha,t a
person had been found on his licensed premises
after hours engaged in an unlawful purpose, to
wit, a game of dice. True, Bung did not know
anything about the game being played, as it took
place in a bedroom. On that reading of the Act,
Bung would be liable if a burglar were found in
his pub after 11 p.m. in quest of Bungs own
takings. Justice Pring, however, announced Ins
opinion that the Legislature, in its insanest
moment, would not have enacted that; wherefore
lie defined “unlawful” as meaning unlawful only
in regard to strong drink. Unfortunately the
police had relied on a previous decision on the
same point given by Justice Pring himself ; but
liis Honor apologised all round for his reversal of
opinion, which he ascribed to the able argument
of counsel for the defence. Upon which Milner
.Stephen, who had been upholding Bung’s end of
the log, strutted out of court more like a proud
bantam than ever.
* * * *
“ A. 8.” describes a social function :
Went down to Botany the other day to see Jack John-
son train. There was a crowd of about 20 men ; and a
couple of women stood on a verandah overlooking the
temporary arena. The monotony of a long wait was
broken by the confidences of a middle-aged gentleman in
a battered hat, who had loved beer not wisely but too
well. The drunk assured us that he had seen Enuhe
Melville act with Lola Montez the night before Eureka
Stockade, and it was only through the diggers leaving the
stockade to see him fight Jack Thomson next morning
that the troops were able to get in and load Peter Lalor
with chains. He was entering on a secret chapter of poli-
tical life showing how the late Duncan Gillies and the late
Henry Parkes were really acting in accordance with a
secret agreement, entrusted to, him (the drunk) ;is the
only person in Australia worthy of implicit confidence,
when a large, dark person, with a wide mouth, emerged
from the building. He reminded me of imperial Cassar,
with a dash of Julius Knight. Pie took the applause we
gave him as the legitimate tribute of a devoted people.
He looked round fiercely. It seemed to me that he was
looking my way, and I wondered if he was as good a
runner as a fighter, if it came to a dash for the fence and
a long pursuit race through the bush to La
Perouse. But he wasn’t looking for me. “ Whar’s
datboy?” he demanded. He glanced round and his brow
grew stern. Then I gathered what was the matter. The
harmless, necessary boy whose <1 uty it was to hold the
coat of the colored champion during hostile operations
had baselv betraved his trust. Mr. Johnson rolled the
whites of'his eyes in a way that made us wonder whether
it wouldn’t be just as well to let the first loss of that
shilling for admission be the last, and leap out for the
tram. Then Sam Fitzpatrick came along and said some-
thing. What it was we couldn’t guess, but from the way
Mr. Johnson’s face lighted up it must have been that the
boy had been put to death for treachery. Mr. Johnson
seemed about to speak, when somebody anticipated him.
It was the drunk.
“ Er,” he cried, truculently, lurching towards the ring,
“ I’ll fight yer meself, yer black cow. I know something
about the game, I do. ‘ I’ve fought better men ’n you.
His voice melted into a murmur as his eyes closed, and
he seemed to go to sleep standing up, like a horse. At
the first remark we had expected to see the drunk killed
at least, but the champion merely glanced his way and
went on with his arrangements with just such a look as
the engineer of Barren Jack might give if a rabbit got in
the middle of the offtake. An aspiring lad was led into
the ring and introduced. He prepared to punch John-
son, when the voice of the drurik rang out again.
“ ’Ere,” it said, trumpet-tongued, in the raucous tone
of Joe Carruthers ordering the theft of a package of wire-
netting ; “ I know yer. Wait till yer meet Tommy Burns,
ver big black cow ! He’ll chew yer up. Bli—hie—me,
I’d fight yer meself! ”
Mr. Johnson seemed deeply shocked. “Here’s ladies
present,” he said severely to the drunk, who waved a
shaky hand before him and broke down trying to remember
a new epithet. “ Whar’s de offleah?” demanded the
champion. “ Bring de officah. Give dat man his money
back and put him out. People who come heah must
behave as genelmen.”
“ ’Ear, ’ear,” we said fervently.
The drunk looked at us with the reproachful eye of the
man whose mates have turned dog on him. He leaned
his head on the fence and burst into tears. A police-
man spoke softly to him. “ Why,” he protested, sobbing,
“ I fought Tom Sayers before I ever come to this Manky
country. I’ll fight this yer black cow, an’ I paid my bob
an’ I’m gointer stay ’ere.' Not you nor th’ ole Noo South
p'lice for°e’d shift me. I tell yer. You’ll run agin a
snag if ver tackle me. I ”
What his further remarks were we never knew, for he
and the constable turned suddenly into a miniature dust-
storm, and a minute later the John returned from the
gate, smiling, and edged himself into a good position
from which to view the subsequent proceedings in the
ring. The serious part of the business consisted of John-
sorfexchanging punches with sundry local boxers. Either
lie is keeping a lot up his sleeve or he is a hopelessly over-
rated man, for his hitting was slow and the weight in his
blows seemed to lack power, as is the case with so many
fighters with magnificently developed arms.
THINGS WE STICK ON.
MYRA (swectiy): “But he’s awfully vulgar , is he not?"
LINDA: "No! That's just an affectation."
The actual accession to power of the Labor
party, with the expectation of Socialistic legisla-
tion, hasn’t driven quite all the capital out of
Melbourne. Last week one dilapidated old
woman, living in a tumble-down shanty, was
unearthed in South Melbourne with £6OO to her
credit in the Savings Bank and about £lOOO in
sundry securities; a day or two later another
miser was found dead in a Burns-lane ruin with
£4OO of “ estate” ; while a remittance man cheer-
fully “bust up” £2O in one sudden act in the
city. This last episode only gained publication
through the gentleman being arrested later on in
Ballarat for begging. He was the remittaneer
who explained that he was a younger brother of
the late Lord Chief-Justice Coleridge—a yarn
about which there seems to be some discrepancy,
as The Bulletin has explained already.
* * •» *
A queer case of amazing innocence, real
or remarkably well simulated, is now before the
Crown Law authorities in Sydney. A young girl
was brought before the Newtown Police Magis-
trate on a charge of forgery. The girl’s story was
that she had seen her mistress pay the vegetable
John with a cheque, and it struck her that, if the
bank would give a Chinaman money in return for
a little scrap of paper, she might as well
get a bit for herself. So she tore a blank
cheque out of the missus’s cheque book,
filled it up for £9 145., and gave it to her
aunt to cash. The bank refused the cheque
because it had no date on it; but, apart
from that,- it was not an attempt to imitate the
signature of the missus, her name being in fact
spelt wrongly; and, altogether, the cheque was
not at all likely to deceive the sleepiest bank-
clerk. The girl’s employer impulsively gave her
in charge ; but, when the matter reached the police
court, the employer and the police, the magis-
trate and the lawyer, and the girl herself, all said
they were sorry the charge had been laid. But,
as it had been laid, the magistrate didn’t know
what to do. On the advice of the Crown Solicitor,
lie finally committed the girj. for trial, leaving it
to the Attorney-General to file a bill or let the
thing drop.
* * * *
Our black brother Bill still stands in the
limelight as the hero of the Carpentaria Downs
(N.Q.) tragedy. Bill says that, at the invitation
of Mrs. Wilson, wife of the station manager, he
went with her into the bedroom of Miss Duffy, the
young housekeeper and companion, and held the
sleeping girl’s wrists while Mrs. Wilson cut her
throat. It is a curious story, and rests entirely
on the narrative of Bill, who seems to have put on
airs and thrown himself about a good deal on the
strength of his temporary importance, Mean-
while, there is a figure m the background which
doesn’t seem to attract so much attention as might
be expected. Maudie is black as ink, aged 15,
described as lazy and vindictive, and given to
ruinin'* furniture and to other acts of destruction.
Maudie was employed on the premises without
salary, and one of the late M ISS Duffys
duties seems to have been the flogging of Maudie
when her work was not up to sample. Apparently
Maudie’s work was seldom up to sample, and,
according to one witness, Miss Duffy s duties as
Maudie-flogger were fairly onerous Other wit-
nesses say they were quite light, and only
took up a small part of the deceased lady s time.
It is stated that Maudie hadn t been walloped for
a week before Miss Duffy’s death, and as she would
thus have time to get into an unbiassed frame of
mind, the full and truthful opinion of Maudie
about Billy’s narrative should be all the more
valuable. On the other hand, Maudie s untruthful
narrative, with reservations, might have no value
at all.
The chief use Victoria makes of its aban-
doned mines is to find dead bodies in them, and
the chief purpose of its police is not to find out
how the bodies got there. Two mangled sets of
remains—one male, the other female have just
been discovered in the Rushworth mine, at Rush-
worth, and the police wear an even less intelli-
gent look on the subject than they did when
Madge Graham was discovered down a left-off
orifice at Ballarat some months ago.
Saturday, Nov. 14, was a black day in the
annals of Sea Lake, in the Victorian Mallee. On
that day, despite its name, “ the Lake ’ was the
thirstiest spot on this spinning pebble. The beer
ran out! Try to imagine, ye swilling city-
dwellers, what this means. The beer ran out.
Barmaids tap for you endless streams of molten
joy; the froth faileth not, neither do the lead-
pipes cease their flow; but Sea Lake is far, far
away in the Mallee, and all day long the tempera-
ture was 106° in the shade. The beer ran
out ! ! It was no use making frantic appeals
to Berriwillock ; the Berriwillock beer ran out
also! No more pitiful sight has ever been
seen in Victoria. Strong men wept; they even
drank water. To telegraph for reinforcements
was useless; the trains come to Sea Lake only
three times a week. One awful fact had to be
faced in hopeless despair : NO BELR . And
camped at Sea Lake were 300 harvest hands wait-
ing to be let loose among the wheat. I hey went
to the pub and were offered water. Water .
Dozens of them took ill with the shock. An
heroic party of rescuers vowed that they would
provide beer. They drove to Woomelang. Woo-
melang is every bit of 50 miles away. At
Woomelang, they loaded a huge barrel into the
buggy. But the drive home was hot. All the
populace of Sea Lake (including the 300 har-
vest hands) turned out to await the return,
and the brass band got ready to play.
But the buggy brought home six very full men
and one very empty barrel. There was almost a
lynching horror. Not one drop was left in the
town save a flask of whisky, which was being
kept as the nucleus of a Town Museum, then,
thank Heaven, the train arrived. In 17 minutes,
the rate-collector (being a statistician) reported
that the average hourly consumption of beer in
Sea Lake was 39'63 gallons per head. But the
town shudders at the thought that such a thing
may occur again. It wants Bent to built (Govern-
ment beer-tanks at the railway station.
THE LITERARY SHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In # measure, the mystery surrounding the yacht
Coronet has been cleared up, for the American Consul
yesterday elicited the fact that the owner of the yacht,
Mr. Sandford, is engaged in literary pursuits.
The crew was not to he seen yesterday afternoon.
There was not a sound or a trace of life on her until a boat
pulled rightalongside. Then, from under the shelter of the
Sail—it was raining—came a man and a hoy. Each wore
a peaked cap and a loose blue jumper, like an engineer’s.
The man was iron-grey, clean shaven. The boy folded a
newspaper under his arm. They strolled to the side,
and looked down at the boat by the gangway.
The reporters, on inquiring if they could see the
captain, were informed that he was busy writing. That
was all the information that was to be had. As the boat
rowed away, the two went back to their seat and their
newspaper, under the big sail. And the rain and the wind
moaned and hissed again about a lifeless ship.— Sydney
paper.
There ain’t a sound on th’ blessed craft
(Oh! ’ark t’ th’ surf on th' sands !)
Th’ skipper’s down in 'is cabin aft
With ’is ’ead restin’ on ’is ’ands,
Starin’ all day in an # ’opeless way
At th’ Bottle wot understands.
(Aye, aye !)
It’s th’ Bottle wot understands.
TIT Bottle’s black an’ th’ Bottle’s full,
An’ the stuff that it ’olds ain’t rum.
Th’ skipper ’e never takes a pull ;
’E jus’ stares at it—white an’ dumb—
An’ thinks an’ thinks, but ’e never drinks
Or asks th’ firs’ mate to ’ave some.
(Stan’ by !)
’E don’ ask th’ mate to ’ave some !
We never shouts an’ we never sings J
We jus’ whispers behind th’ mast.
’E ’as to ’ave silence t’ think o’ things,
An’ whenever th’ word is passed
That th’ Bottle’s out, I goes about
An’ I says to all ’ands, “ Avast!
(Black Jack !)
Pass th’ word to all ’ands ! Avast! ”
There ain’t a sound on this lonesome craft.
(Do you ’ear th’ surf on th’ sands ?)
Th’ skipper’s locked in ’is cabin aft
With th’ Bottle wot understands,
An’ a scratchy pen like a maddened ’en,
An’ smudges all over ’is ’ands,
(Make fas’!)
Ink smudges all over ’is ’ands.
N.S.W.
FOE.
THE PROSELYTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Anglican Vicar-General complains of proselytising
by Roman Catholic priests at the Melbourne Hospital.
He says that a priest administered Roman rites to a
moribund Anglican when the patient was in an un-
conscious condition. —Item of news.
His face was splashed with blood,
A hole was in his head ;
Two crow-like figures stood
Beside his painful bed.
“ O, save the soul of this poor man ! ”
“ Begone ! He is an Anglican.”
With candle and with book
They fought his soul to share,
With many a wicked look
And many a wordy flare :
“ The blessed Saints receive you home I"
“ Pass high to Heaven, not to Rome !”
But lo ! a whisper stirred
Beneath the ceiling white,
And each sky-pilot’s word
Was cut in halves with fright:
“ Fer Gawd-sake let me rest at last,
I’ve bin a corpse this ’arf-’our past.”
VIC.
P.


PATENTS AND TRADE MARKS.
Griffith and Allen,
International Patent Attorneys,
163 King Street, Sydney; 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Corresponding Agents throughout the World.
Given a good memory success is within the
reach of all. The Pelman System makes good memories.
Half-an-hour daily for six weeks completes the course.
Taught by post. Permanent benefits. Write Pelman
School of Memory, 3 Stock Exchange Buildings, Mel-
bourne.* ro ,
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
A PANAMA THIS CHRISTMAS!
r<- i
■MI
v. ■ ■
PRICES: 15/6, 18/6. 21/- Add 6d
for postage and mention size when ordering.
Make yourself—or a friend—
happy this Christmas with one of
our handsome,Panamas.
They are full of good style, and
bound to please.
Woven in vety fine plait, cool,
very smart, giving a negligee
appearance, of superior color, and
being entirely in one piece,
thereby preventing the crown
gaping open, they are altogether
the most satisfactory Panamas we
have offered you.
OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE FREE.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS.”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY:
Maoriland, the country that won a measure
of notoriety recently by instituting an indecency
prosecution against Bernard Hall’s fine picture,
“Sleep,” has been at it again. Its latest effort
establishes what is, in all likelihood, a world’s
record in pruriency. At Feilding a photographer
has just been proceeded against for exhibiting in
his shop window the nude photograph of an eight
months old baby ? A shuddering magistrate, on
having his attention directed to the pictorial out-
rage, modestly veiled his eyes with his left paw
and with the other subscribed the Court’s judg-
ment, which was that the negative of the “in-
decency ” should be broken and all reproductions
therefrom destroyed. What is to happen to the
infant hasn’t yet transpired. Locals hold that it
will probably be dressed forcibly in three thick
suits of clothes, and wheeled in its pram to the
premises of the nearest preacher, there to be
remonstrated with at great length.
* * * *
“Viator”: Esperanto is looking up. At
the Dresden Congress just held there were en-
thusiasts from Germany, France, England,
Russia, Italy, Spain, America, Japan, and all
round the compass. All these diversities listened
with exultation to a performance, in Esperanto,
of Goethe’s five-act play of “ Iphigenia,” con-
sidered by many to be his masterpiece. Even
the German enthusiasts declared that it
went better in Esperanto than in their own
language. At the
chief Protestant
church at Dresden
a sermon was
preached in Es-
peranto. The new
languagehas killed
Yolapuk.
RESTRAINED HIMSELF.
Melbourne Age misrepresented Bruce Smith in an inci-
dent which happened in the Reps, a week or two ago.
“I am reported to have intervened with some observa-
tions pf a rather stupid character,” said Mr. Smith. “I
may make stupid observations—perhaps I make them fre-
quently—but on this occasion I said nothing at all.”
LIPTLE BOY: “ You wuz Kerry wise not to be so
foolish.”
- The S. Australian Assembly last week
■carried a motion, submitted by Chairman of Com-
mittees Coombe, declaring that there ought to be
an inquiry into the case of Flynn, the man who
was sentenced some years ago to long imprison-
ment for highway robbery. Flynn says he didn’t
-do it, the other man convicted with him said he
was guilty himself but that Flynn wasn’t, a con-
stable says he saw Flynn in Adelaide at the time
'the sticking-up was being done miles away, and
generally there’s a truck-load of doubt about the
■case. ParisNesbit, K.C., who was in court during
the trial, has been fighting for a long while to get
a re-opening of the case ; and on the Assembly’s
motion that course can’t well be blocked any
longer.
Allegations of “jury-squaring” in Mel-
bourne criminal cases—the occasional notorious
instances that get freely talked about—are sup-
ported by allegations of “ panel packing. It is
now stated, with circumstantial detail, that the
criminal trial of a wealthy city man, a while ago,
was a very profitable transaction for various
agents of the accused and their employees. The
principal “ squarer ” and his assistants “ cut up
a fat sum of money among them, and in addition
£5O was paid to a public servant who arranged for
the appearance of at least one ex-criminal among
the jurv, although convicted citizens are nomi-
nally disqualified from appearing on the panel. In
this case, of course, the juryman was squared
before he entered the box, unchallenged.
CLEANING UP THE YARD .
The Premier of N.S.W. is arranging- with General Booth
for the sending out of immigrants. —News Item.
The dreadfully complicated case of Mrs. ?
bobbed up again the other day at South Mel-
bourne, and was passed on to a jury to grapple
with. This is the fourth information that has
been laid against the lady, so the Law is evidently
determined to make an example of her if it can.
Her present trouble consists in telling a registrar
of marriages that her name was Hazel Isabel
Roberts, widow, whereas her real name is
alleged to be Elsie Violet Smith, the wife of
George Smith. And yet the Law has had its
doubts about even that. She is alleged to have
first married James Smith; then, though there is
no evidence of his death, she espoused George
Smith ; and finally, she made Henry Alexander
Fraser happy. Moreover, James Smith’s name was
alleged to be really Stuart, whereby she would be
Mrs. Stuart. A few weeks back she was charged
with bigamously marrying Eraser while James
Smith was still alive ; but as James failed to
identify the lady as his wife, the charge fell through.
Apparently the Law has given up James Smith,
and is now relying on George Smith. At the
South Melbourne Court a scrappy narrative was
pumped out of this gentleman. The story was
about how he married the accused, who called
herself Elsie Violet Roberts; and about an infant
which was said to be theirs, but which subse-
quently turned out to be neither his nor hers, but
a mere temporary adoption. Then Mrs. Smith’s
sister tripped along and assured the Bench that
she had been present at the other’s third mar-
riage, though she had a suspicion at the time
that George Smith was still alive; that she and
her sister had been bitter enemies all their lives ;
that her maiden name was Sandberg (not Sand-
bag), and her present designation Mrs. Backus,
though she had also been known as Mrs. Grant
and Mrs. McMahon. Altogether it was a com-
plicated narrative, the only certain satisfactory
item about it being the fact that present husband
Fraser went bail for the lady’s appearance before
a jury.
This is the time of the year when Uni-
versity students get the idea that the professors
of the different Australian Universities play a sort
of cynical game of see-saw with them. First an
Adelaide man examines a batch of Sydney
students in some subject and plucks half of them.
Then the Sydney professor has a chance with
Adelaide papers, and repeats the dose. A Mel-
bourne professor comes along and impartially
dashes the hopes of undergrads of both the sister
schools. Each professor is believed to be intent
on proving how much higher is the standard of
the work of his own students than that of the
pupils of the other fellow. But plucked students
must give pa some excuse ; and if this isn’t a good
one it is, anyhow, ingenious.
Two recent incidents in Sydney pointed
with a finger as long as a clothes prop to the fact
that it is useless to merely prohibit the importa-
tion of opium. An officer on duty saw a Chow
fireman leaving the s.s. Empire. He looked as
innocent as a new-laid egg, but time was hanging
heavy on the officer’s hands and he gathered the
Chinaman in. The heathen proved to be wearing
a belt inside which was packed opium specially
prepared in long flakes. This discovery showed
that a new device has come into use. The officer
went back like a giant refreshed and captured
another Mongol on spec. He looked as harmless
as a baby calf frisking on a lawn, but he had about
half-a-gallon of opium in his stomach—not his
natural stomach, but an artificial corporation that
he wore in front of him. When the capture of
two Chinamen at random produces such results it
seems fairly possible that every Chinaman who
comes ashore would pay a dividend if overhauled.
Yet it is impossible to search every Chinaman-
every time he is seen. Obviously there is wisdom
in the idea of making the opium-smoker and the
opium-seller, and the man with opium in his pos-
session, and the keeper of the opium joint, and the
man whose clothes or premises smell of opium, all
responsible to the criminal law. Nothing less
will do any good.
The Associated Commonwealth Steamship
Owners have been ordered to part up an extra
£3OOO a year or so to the Associated Marine Cooks,
Bakers and Butchers as the result of the latest
award by the Arbitration Court. Seemingly the
Association had endeavored to spare itself this
sacrifice or a part thereof, by artful tactics in con-
nection with the Federated Stewards and Cooks’
Union, which consists of about 98 per cent,
steward and 2 per cent. cook. The ship-
owners made things right with the stewards, but
the cooks were left with a grievance. Whereupon
the men who make and bake the tucker that the
stewards bring to table were incited to band to-
gether for arbitration purposes. Their award
from Justice Higgins is an increase in wages all
round, mostly in favor of the poorly-paid slaves
of the galley as compared with the chefs. A
third cook is raised from £5 to £6 10s. a month,
and a sculleryman soars from £4 to £5 10s., at
which giddy height of affluence he will be con-
sidered capable of supporting a wife and family,
it seems. Marine cooks and their comrades offer
a lot of food for reflection, in addition to the food
they supply for the table.
* * # *
On the threshold of summer the old, old
doubt about Melbourne’s water supply arises like
a desert ghost and stalks through the land. Last
year the loudest shout of protest came from Fire
Brigade Chief Stein, who shook a dry hydrant at
the public and asked how he could be expected to
put out Flinders-lane with that. This year the
howl emanates from politician W. A. Zeal, who
appears to have taken the trouble to inspect for
himself the drop of moisture upon which Bent’s
capital depends for its life. Zeal rakes up most
of the arguments that have been raked up before
and thrown with more or less force at the
Metropolitan Bored of Shirks, without wak-
ing up the smallest Shirk on the premises. Mel-
bourne has become used to the annual noise about
the Bored and its want of Works; it looks upon
it much as it does on the hot weather or the
wandering barrel-organist—something that can
neither be helped or averted. Melbourne isn’t
likely to arise and do anything until it has the
fear of Hades scorched into it by a Keallv Big
Fire—the sort of fire that Stein used to have
nightmares about. It is bound to come some
time ; also, as the years go by, the odds against
the Brigade being able to beat it are lengthening
like the shadows at even, for, while warehouses
are getting bigger, the 50-year-old Yarra-side
mains are getting older and rustier, and more
people are being born to want drinks and baths
out of them. After the Great Blaze has come and
gone, one of the survivors, raking over the ashes,
will find an interesting relic—a charred fragment
with M.B.W. branded on it.
* * * *
“ 0.K.” on a subject about which this
paper hasn’t made up its mind :
Outtrim, of the Vic. Leg. Assembly, is proposing a Bill
—or, rather, borrowing the proposal from Europe—to
alter the hours of the working day in accordance with the
design of Nature. Up to now, people have taken their
ideas of bedtime and breakfast time from that good old
Tory institution the clock, which tells them the hours
of midnight and midday, hut ignores the fact that the
times of daylight and darkness vary with the seas'ons.
The clock has been always working in the interests of gas
companies, but even the traders and householders who
paid the gas bill didn’t notice the awful waste of daylight
that was going on. The proposed Bill would introduce
more sunshine into active human life by putting the clock
back an hour or more for a period, and putting it on (as
before) for another period, either all at once or by degrees,
so that the waking working hours of the longer days may
begin and end earlier than the corresponding hours in
winter. The orthodox breakfast would still be an 8 o’clock
meal all the year round ; but the clock time would be
made for man and not man for the clock. Twice a year
—assuming that the change were effected in one act—the
stately procession of the hours would be thrown out
of order by decree of the Government. The proposed inno-
vation is so simple and reasonable that even the British
House of Lords can see no objection to it. It must come,
as a matter of course. The sooner it comes the better for
the health of the community, not to mention the saving
in coal and kerosene.
Said that a comfortable billet in the gift of
one of the Melbourne municipal councils was lately
given to a non-producer of long standing who
formerly acted as a doorkeeper at the Collingwood
tote. There were 80 applicants for the billet,
and this man got it seemingly on his tote refer-
ence, and on his bad character from the police as
a persistent aider towards the breakage of the
anti-gambling laws.
The Hinemoa—the big sailing ship that
sat down for a brief rest on the seashore at Lome
(Vic.) last February—swings idly at its anchors
off the low-lying, dreary Fisherman’s Bend, near
where the brown Yarra wriggles into the sea. It
has been tethered to the mud for nine weary
months waiting for a cargo and, from present indi-
cations, it looks as if it might be nine years before
that rare and valuable curio, a consignee with
time to spare, comes along with a bale or two of
wool or other merchandise. There are three other
windjammers tied up close by, also waiting for
cargoes and getting very rusty and barnacled in
the process. Week after week tramp steamers go
threshing ponderously past them to sea with full
cargoes and fuller crews, while the wind yells a
song of insolvency in the idle rigging of the wind-
jammers, and the tide casts up on the beach all the
sodden refuse of the sea. After nine months’ con-
templation of Fisherman’s Bend, the Hinemoa
must often wonder why it ever troubled to leave
Lome. It would have been a lot more cheerful
to wreck at Lome than to rust at Fisherman’s
Bend.
Last week the Sydney Watchman got
quite angry .with this paper, and said severe
things. Biit its wrath is excusable. A publica-
tion which was lately taken in with a circum-
stantial account of how an eminent Frenchman,
with a name that signified Yellowpup, was
pushing along a scheme for the purchase and
destruction of Rome, and how a great French
journalist, named Monkeyshave, was receiving
the money, is liable to feel a trifle brief in the:
temper.
* * * *
Concerning the people who get married
and the time of life they do it:—
6. H. Knibbs, the man who keeps track of weddings
and things for the Commonwealth, has just finished his
overhaul of the records for 1907. There were 32,470 bride-
grooms during the year, and Knibbs could tell without
counting them that there were just as many brides.
More brides said they were 21 than anything else, but
one owned that she was 12 and 11 owned to 14. At the
other end Eden opened to one of 78 and to another of 79.
The old gentlemen, however, were much less modest :
one said he was 83, and half-a-dozen declared themselves
seasoned veterans of 80 and 81. More of the young men
said they were 24 than any other age. The habit of get-
ting married arrives in different places at different
times. In Westralia it doesn’t arrive till late—26. In
Victoria it mostly comes at 25, but in the other States 24
figures oftenest against the name of the husband on the
“lines’’that the lady shakes in the face of the other
lady who has defied her to prove it. More divorced
ladies get married than divorced gentlemen—lB6 last year
to 147—but the widower gets married oftener than'the
widow ; there were 2103 of one, and 1721 of the other.
One divorced gentleman got married at 76 ; but that was
an out-size, and beats the oldest divorced lady in the list
by 20 years. The millionaire of 75, who marries the
apple-cheeked girl of 19 in the Homk Chirp, and dies and
leaves it all to her, doesn’t do it as a regular thing in
Australia; still, last year one old gentleman of 77 did
marry a girl of 20, and another of 72 married a girl of 24,.
and Seventy-nine and Eighty married Twentv-flve ; but
they are very rare cases. Mostly the bridegroom of 60 or
over doesn’t ask for a bride greener than 40 ; while the'
previously mentioned patriarch of 83—the grandfather of
all the year’s records—married the grandmother of them,
all, and she was 79. As for the means by which the
young man earns a crust, the “professional class is by
far the longest-winded—more of him gets married at 80
than at any other age. (“Professional” people are
lawyers, doctors, parsons, journalists, Government
officers, musicians, etc.) Commercial men (including
clerks) do it at 25; men engaged in “transport and
communication ” at 24 ; the “ industrial ” division at 24,
“primary producers” at 26, though it would be
more if the miner didn’t marry young. The
plain laborer marries most at 23, and for any big
section that is the lowest figure that Statist Knibbs
arrives at.
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
SMITH: “ Hullo! Black eye? Wife again, I sup-
pose?"
BROWN: “ Yes, she pelted me with flowers last
night.”
SMITH: "But they wouldn't cause that.”
BROWN: “ Wouldn't they ? They were in pots.”
The all-British sailing crew is such a rarity
on British ships that the master of a vessel with an
all-Bull complement specially calls the attention of
the press to the fact. Captain Douglas, of the barque
Banksfield, which left Sydney last week, proudly
told an evening paper reporter that not a single
Hans, Fritz, Angelo, Demetrius, Hang Fat or
Chunder Loo was manning the capstan that trip.
While The Bulletin is glad to hear that one
master mariner is trying to keep Mrs. Britannia’s
sea-dogs their proper color, it grieves to note that
the all-white pack is such a curiosity that it is
paragraphed just like the three-headed calf or
the flying snake with a book under its arm.
THE RULE OF ANTI-FAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now a solid phalanx of Labor members stands up there,
in goodly array, when the prayers are read, and the rest
of the House regards them curiously. . . . They are thin
men, these new Ministers. The contrast between the
new and the old was marked in the extreme. —
S. M. Herald.
The rulers that we had of yore
Were jolly, sleek and fat,
And each invariably wore
A tall and shiny hat,
And most emphatically swore
He was a democrat.
The damaged woodwork of the door
Informed the stranger that
The ruler who had gone before
•Had tripped upon the mat—
The deep depression in the floor
Denoted where he sat.
Most gorgeous were they to behold ;
Those rulers fat and sleek.
And gorgeous were the lies they told
Whene’er they chanced to speak—
And, oh ! how gorgeously they sold
The simple and the meek.
Ay ! They were fine imposing men,
Those famous diplomats!
And common folk applauded when
They saw their shining hats,
Until they were exhausted. Then
They thought of brewers’ vats.
The rulers we have got to-day
Are lanky, lean and thin.
Their corrugated vests display
The emptiness within.
And like the hungry beasts of prey
They’re mostly bone and skin.
They’re slight, and light, and full of fight,
And dread ferocity;
And though their conduct may be right,
They lack pomposity ;
And that is why I think they’re quite
A curiosity.
And when I see them sitting there
With waistcoats lean and flat,
It makes me wonder how they dare
To go about like that.
It makes me glare and gasp and stare,
This reign of Anti-Fat.
N.s.w.
TOM BEASLEY.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT in En s'a n ?->
_ , 4 . 1t , ~ , . ' . ■ iiniii beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office. Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen'* Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lycftard Street.
BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK— Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester ; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank op New South Wales
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £> £■ £
Sept., 1902..118,229 10 p.c,= 100,000 18,229 1,315,279
Mar., 1903..115,793 10 „ „ 100,000 15,793 1,331,072
; Sept., 1903.. 117,370 10 „ ~ 100,000 17,370 1,348,442
Mar., 1904..119,582 10 ~ „ 100,000 19,582 1,368,024
Sept., 1904.. 120,435 10 ~ ~ 100,000 20,435 1,388,459
Mar., 1905..127,811 10 „ „ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sppt., 1905.. 126,963 10 ~ ~ 100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar'., 1906..129,385 10 ~ „ 100,000 29,385 1,472,618
Sqpt., 1906.. 130,115 10 „ ~ 100,000 30,115 1,502,733
Mar 1907-P 4l ’ 581 10 ” » 700,000 26,581 ). ™
Mar., UO7 j Voted tQ Provide|lt Fu ’ nd _ 15 ; 000 \ 1,529,314
Sept., 1907.. 142,966 10 p.c. = 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
Mar., 1908..156,742 10 „ ~ 124,399 32,343 1,593,988
£ept., 1908.. 167,928 10 „ ~ 125,000 42,928 1,636,916
The new capital has now been all paid up, making-the total
422,500,000 ; and, though it is hardly possible that this new
capital can have earned 10 per cent, (the amount of the
dividend), yet the old dividend on the enlarged capital is
not only paid, but a larger sum than for many years past
has been put to reserves. And this is all the more
remarkable because it is very well-known that during the
past 12 months the bank has had three or four unusually
severe losses. The most probable explanation is that
down to 1907, when the co.’s 10 per cent, dividend called
for only 42100,000 a half-year, substantial sums were put
by as internal reserves. Then the Provident Fund was
made,solid ; and after that had been done an outlet was
got for some of the surplus profits by an increase of capi-
tal. The internal reserves would now be available to
meet these recent losses. The morals of internal re-
serves are, of course, an ancient subject for debate.
They have their weak features undoubtedly ;
perhaps the weakest of all is that, since the
public can’t see them, it sometimes assumes that they
exist where there are none. Ranks have, however, been
more or less driven into establishing them, because the
public nowadays thinks that something uncommonly
serious is the matter when a bank writes off something
from its disclosed reserves. To touch the latter is
reckoned almost as bad as touching capital; so, since the
real profits of banks jump up and down to a greater extent
than those of the average business, the practice has de-
veloped of hiding part of the profits of extra-good times,
and using them to wipe out some' of the losses of extra-
bad times. The balance sheet doesn’t tell the public the
actual truth in either the good or the bad times ; but the
public gets, or ought to get, a general view of the trend
of things by comparing half a-dozen or more consecutive
sheets. The practical result of the system is to prevent
scares (sometimes, unfortunately, even when scares are
justified), and to keep the market for shares steady,
instead of springing up and down, as though they belonged
to the mining and not the investment division.
To get back to the B.N.S.W. in particular.
The disclosed results are the best for many terms past.
The profits, reckoned on capital and reserves combined,
have lately been as follows :
Mar., 1905 .. £7 10 10 p.c. Mar., 1907 .. £7 4 1 p.c.
Sept., 1905.. 7 8 8,, Sept., 1907.. 71210 ~
Mar., 1906.. 710 3 „ Mar., 1908.. 71511 „
Sept., 1906.. 7 910 „ Sept., 1908.. 8 4 1 „
To some extent this improvement is traceable in the fol-
lowing figures:—
Sept., 1907. Sept., 1908.
Notes .. £982,704 421,000,851 Inc., £18,147
Bills, etc. .. 3,254,518 3,326,758 Inc., 72,240
Deposits .. 26,056,302 26,872,785 Inc., 816,483
Liquid assets 13,398,412 12,554,262 Dec., 844,150
Advances .. 20,311,637 22,226,206 Inc., 1,914,569
Premises .. 690,000 690,000
Th,e feature is a large increase of advances, partly
supplied by reducing the liquid assets, partly by new
deposits, partly by the increased capital and reserves.
The liquid assets have been reduced mainly through the
withdrawal of money on short call in London. Two
years ago, when money was so dear in London,
this bank had £2,520,000 on short call there ;
12 months ago, £1,665,000; now, only £450,000.’
The advances into which the bulk of this money has
been put have no doubt been called for mainly in
connection with new agricultural settlement. How that
will pan out depends very largely on the prices the new
settlers pay for their land ; in many cases it will probably
be impossible for them to carry through unless they get
two or three really good seasons for a start. Notwith-
standing the drain on the liquid assets, the latter still
represent a most substantial 40 per cent, of all debts to
the public ; so that, even with its present resources, the
bank is still very well situated to grant further assistance
if the demand for it should arise. Nothing has been
written off premises, but additions and purchases have
been paid for out of revenue.
The Bank of N. S. Wales has now got an
Assistant General Manager. T. H. Ivey, for many years
manager of the Sydney office, and acting G.M. when
General Manager Russell French went to Europe a couple
of years ago, has been appointed ; he ranks also as Chief
Inspector.
*■ * * *.
The Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
(Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898.. £1,089 4 per cent. = £2138 £15,933
1899.. 4,174 5 „ „ „ 2672 £1,502 17,435
1900.. 14,064 S „ „ „ 4275 9,789 27,224
1901.. 15,291 8 „ ~ „ 4285 11,006 38,230
1902.. 11,629 8 „ „ „ 4295 7,334 45,564
Loss.
1903.. 4,369 Nil 41,195
Profits.
1904.. 11,057 8 per cent. = 4300 6,757 47,952
1905.. 8,527 8 „ „ „ 4300 4,227 52,179
1906.. 13,212 8 „ ~ „ 4300 8,912 61,091
North Q’land Accident Co.’s reserves .. 976 62,067
1907.. 20,260 8 per cent. = 6000 14,260 76,327
1908.. 13,033 8 „ „ „ 6000 7,033 83,360
This co., formerly the North Queensland Insurance Co.,
took over the infant business of the North Queensland
Accident Insurance Co. in 1906, and has since carried on
all the branches —fire, marine, accident, guarantee, etc.
Its present paid capital is £75,000, in £1 shares paid to
10s. ; the reserves therefore already exceed the amount
of the paid capital, and are being added to largely. In
10 years the profits have amounted to £106,878, of which
£40,427 (or, 38 per cent.) has been distributed in divi-
dends, while no less than £66,451 (or 62 per cent.) has
been put by for the added protection of the policy-
holders. This rapid increase of reserves has, however,
been called for—and no less would have met the case-
owing to the rapid growth of net premium income. This
shows what has happened in that and some other respects :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70'7 p.c. 32Tp.c.
1900.. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58'5 „ 27’2 ~
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58'2 „ 35T„
1907 .. 104,153 53,052 34,987 50'9 „ 33'6 „
1908 .. 114,117 62,109 42,905 54'4 „ 37’6 „
Or, to go back 10 years, in 1898 the premium income was
£49,495 ; capital and reserves then totalled £69,370, or
140 per cent, of the premium income for the vear. Present
capital and reserves total £158,360 ; yet so rapid has been
the increase of premium income (£114,117 for the past year)
that the proportion of capital and reserves to that income
is now a fraction under 140 per cent. This is a reasonably
solid provision, apart from the uncalled capital ; but it is
plain that, rapid as has been the growth of reserves, it
has been none too large to provide for the increase of
policy risks. The past year’s experience has been only
moderate ; the fire losses have been heavy. The co. does
an extensive Maoriland business, and on recent experi-
ences the fire-tariff rates there have been cut down
too low. The growth of the expense rate sug-
gests keener competition and the need to spend
more shoe leather in capturing a given amount
of premiums. This applies especially, no doubt,
to the accident and guarantee business. The co.’s
assets are an unusually good and liquid lot, and do not,
therefore, give a large return ; in fact, on the mean of
the investments, including properties (£44,318), the year’s
return did not reach 3 per cent. But the principal pro-
perty asset in Sydney has been having three or four more
storeys put on its head, and has, therefore, been,non-
revenue producing during the year. There are no mort-
gages ; all the capital (£75,000) and the formal reserve
fund (£80,000) are represented by Government securities
and bank deposits, so that they can be swiftly realised in
case of disaster, and practically without any chance of
loss on the transaction.
» * * *
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co. op
South Australia (Adelaide) :
Written Added
Off Lease- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. holds. serves, serves.
1899 .. £1593 5 p.c.=£sB9 £3OO £BO4 £2,279
1900 .. 927 5 „ „ 745 75 107 2,380
1901 .. 1877 5 „ „ 767 685 425 2,811
1902 .. 1833 5 „ „ 767 690 376 3,187
1903 .. 2836 6 ~ „ 921 1915 5,102
1904 .. 1987 6 ~ „ 921 95 971 6,073
1905 .. 2302 7 ~ ~1075 100 1127 7,200
1906 .. 2662 7 ~ ~1075 151 1436 8,636
1907 .. 4013 7 ~ ~1075 100 2838 11,474
1908 .. 3776 8 „ „ 1228 100 2448 13,922
The paid capital of this co. is £15,000, with £350 paid in
advance; the former represents £1 10s. per share, and
there is £3 10s. per share liability. The co. was formed in,
1880 ; but it was not until recent years that the value of
it and similar agencies was widely recognised. In 1597
the amount at credit of estates, trusts, etc., in hand, was
£391,928 ; then the figures began to move up rapidly, and
the present total is £2,083,931. The figures for'three
years past have been :
1906 £1,452,874
1907 1,825,700
1908 2,083,931
The commission earnings have not, it is true, moved up
at the same rate ; but, in view of the outlook and the
large additions made to reserves, no complaint can be
lodged against the increase of dividend, which is even now
modest. On capita! alone the net profits show 24 per
cent. ; on capital and reserves combined they show
£l3 14s. Id. The year’s commission earnings are set
down at £6640; that is at the rate of 6s. 4d. per cent,
on the estates, etc., in hand at the end of the year. That,
in other words, was the total cost of administration pay-
able by estates handed over to the care of the co.—6s. 4d.
per £lOO of the capital value ; or, taking the mean of
the value during the year (averaging the total at the
beginning and the end), the cost was 6s. lid. per £lOO.
This covers the commission on the income as well
as the one charge made on the capital value.
It isn’t a heavy charge; yet the return on capital
invested in the co. is so large that it is almost certain
that before long trustee cos. will be expected to do some-
thing more for their money—or probably do the same for
less money. The strength of their position lies in the
fact; that it really takes no capital to run the business.
This co., for instance, ha5£21,855 in public securities ; all
of what may be called its working capital is £l4OO in
leasehold premises, furniture and fittings. Yet sub-
stantial capital, safely invested, is necessary as the
testator’s safeguard—the sort of guarantee which the
private trustee, executor, etc., is never expected to give,
though in his case it is often very badlv needed.
* * * " *
Bendigo Mutual Permanent Land and Build-
ing Society (Bendigo, Vic.) :
Net Added to Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900 .. 5 per cent. =£2480 £21,296
1901 .. £2641 5 „ „ 2461 £lBO 21,476
1902 .. 2310 5 ~ ~ 2323 21,463
1903 .. 1905 5 „ „ 2151 21,217
1904 .. 1611 5J ~ ~ 2309 20,519
1905 .. 2124 6 „ „ 2407 20,236
1906 .. 3527 o.} ~ „ 2633 894 21,130
1907 .. 3247 6£ „ „ 2909 338 21,468
1908 .. 3572 6| „ „ 3100 472 21,940
Some of the figures in the last line are estimated, as the
amount of the dividend has yet to be made up ; it is paid
on “ equation value.” The profits are shown net, after
deducting “ascertained losses’’—though it is not clear
how the losses are “ ascertained,” whether by actual sale
or otherwise. This sets out the matter in more detail;—
Written off
Gross Contingency Net
Profit. Fund. Profit.
1904 .. £3431 £lB2O £l6ll
1905 .. 3474 1350 2124
1906 .. 3946 419 3527
1907 .. 4363 1116 3247
1908 .. 4333 761 3572
Further growth has taken place during the year in regard
to invested capital; on the other hand, the deposits have
recently shrunk—a common experience among banks and
societies which accept deposits, indicating that the rush
of coin to the community’s pocket has eased off a bit. A
further comparison shows the movements of the chief
items :
1900. 1904. 1907. 1908.
Capital .. £52,064 £43,216 £49,074 £51,028
Deposits and
other Debts.. 79,063 86,400 86,479 80,501
Advances .. 138,838 133,382 138,509 139,203
Properties .. 14,519 16,079 16,189 16,189
Cash .. .. 1,228 2,696 4,970 944
Other Assets .. 318 387 261 233
Shareholders’funds (capital and reserves combined) total
£72,968 ; so the society has the use of £1 2s. of the pub-
lic’s money for every £1 of its own. Put in another way,
the society takes the risk in connection with the invest-
ment of this money instead of the owners of it. Cer-
tainly the owners must take some risk ; but under the
circumstances it isn’t worth mentioning; for their
capital would still be intact even if the assets of this
society slumped on the average from £lOO to £52. And,
of course, the growth of the capital without a corres-
ponding growth of deposits still further improves the de-
positors’ position. Advances are increasing a little ; but
it is shareholders’ capital alone that is going into them,
and if that new capital, unaided by deposits, can earn
6J per cent, clear (the amount of the present-dividend),
after making decent provision for depreciation, the
society is on a remarkably good wicket; for the expenses
alone amount to about £1 3s. 6d. per cent, "f the
advances. Profits certainly have moved up smartly
during the past five years; but two things must be
noted —(1) Capital has also moved up smartly ; (2) times
have been good, and there has been need, therefore, to
write off much less than usual. Yet, while Victoria has
had something of a boom since 1904, the society has in
the four years put by only £1421 to provide for the de-
preciation that is pretty certain to show up when the
slump arrives.
* * + *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1898.. £4916 8J per cent. = £2785 £2131 £16,723
Forfeited capital .. 512 17,235
1899.. 4235 7 per cent. = 2325 .1910 19,145
Forfeited capital .. .16 19,161
1900.. 4392 7 per cent. = 2339 2053 21,214
1901.. 4911 .7 „ ~ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902.. 5261 7 ~ „ ~ 2537 2724 26,401
1903.. 5900 7i „ ~ 2762 3138 29,539
1904.. 6591 9 „ „ ~ 3355 3236 32,775
1905.. 7639 10 ~ ■ „ 3792 3847 36,622
1906.. 8952 12J „ ~ ~ 4742 4210 40,832
1907.. 9249 10 „ „ „ 4126 5123 45,955
1908.. 9535 12J ~ „ ~ 5659 3876 49,831
This co. is in the speculative business of land purchase
and subdivision, and the profits are shown after “ making'
the usual provision for sales on extended terms.” What
the “ usual provision ” amounts to isn’t mentioned, nor
is the total amount now set aside to cover possible losses
on account of these transactions. “ Borrowers’ and pur-
chasers’ balances” are therefore necessarily shown in
. the balance-sheet “ after deducting suspense account,”
but the extent of this suspense account is not disclosed.
While things were booming during the last three or four
years the co. did not launch out extensively into land-
purchases ; now, however, it has made a plunge, and has
just bought an estate between Burwood and Croydon
(N.S.W.) for subdivision. The result shows up in this
comparison :
1900. 1905. 1907. 1908.
Debts (deposits, etc.).. £17,417 £26,219 £23,920 £55,907
Freeholds, etc. .. 29,999 26,163 28,377 65,303
Advances .. .. 43,611 75,149 86,603 88,314
Other assets .. .. 154 1,551 1,462 165
Of course the increase of debt, the result of this purchase,
adds to the co.’s risks, just as it also adds to the co.’s
possibilities with regard to profit-making. Which it is to
be—dead horse or bigger profit—depends upon the
state of the market for suburban allotments during
the next year or so. The paid capital was
for many years about £35,000; but subsequently
10,695 new shares were issued at par, and, like
the bulk of the other shares, they have been paid up
to 15s. There are, however, 18,000 shares on which
various amounts from ss. upwards have been paid. In
regard to this co. a great deal depends upon the size of
the suspense account, and whether it is reasonably suf-
ficient to cover any probable default or losses in connec-
tion with the borrowers’ and purchasers’balances. These
represent the large amount of £88,314, and there are big
possibilities in the way of default and foreclosure about
an item of that size and that character.
? * * * ■*
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dunedin,
M.L.): —
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £4582 6p.c. = £4352 £5O £20,459
Premiums on new shares .. 85 20,544
1902 .. 8666 7 p.c. = £5842 £3BOO 19,568
1903 .. 7272 7 ~ ~ 5842 1500 19,498
1904 .. 667 3i „ „ 2921 17,244
1905 .. 3312 3j „ „ 2921 328 63 17,307
1906 .. 2483 2J ~ „ 2086 552 17,152
1907 .. 5093 4 ~ „ 3338 1695 60 17,212
1908 .. 7073 5 „ „ 4173 2746 154 17,366
This shows great improvement; probably* since it is a
cold wind that doesn’t blow warmth to somebody, the
lower price for wool last season added something to the
profits. Besides, there is the steadily growing faith in
Australasian goods ; and, though Maoriland isn’t in the
Commonwealth, it rightly shares in the good fruits of
that faith. Still there is very little in the business so
far, and the good fruits only fill a very small basket. The
capital of the co. is £83,457 ; on that and reserves the net
profit even in this comparatively prosperous year has
been hardly 4J per cent. True, more than usual has been
written off to provide for depreciation ; but, then, not
enough has been written off hitherto, and special replace-
ments have to be provided for. Even the full £2746
represents only 4£ per cent, on the book value of plant;
and, in these days, when machinery has to be
scrapped so rapidly to enable the manufacturer to
keep up with his rival—and especially his foreign,
shoddy-using rival—probably 5 per cent, isn’t too
much. Time and again it has been proved that the
starved manufacturers of Australasia, in the struggle
to make a decent showing, have written off quite an in-
sufficient amount for depreciation, and capital has again
and again had to be written down in consequence. Just
how machinery ought to be treated when the cos. can
afford it, the successful mining concerns of Kalgoorlie
and Broken Hill show —they write off 20 per cent, per
annum, as a rule. This Mosgiei Co. probably needn’t
write off anything like that; yet it can be laid down as a
fairly safe rule that when it calculates an average further
life of 20 years for the plant, and consequently writes off
5 per cent., it doesn’t write off too much, and when it
writes off less (as it mostly has done), it doesn’t write off
enough. The co. has one advantage over most of them—
its debts, though growing a little, are not heavy. Last
year it owed £15,302, and had £7532 owing to it on its
books ; this year it owes £20,104, and has £8520 on its
books. The present doesn’t somehow seem a good time
to increase the amount of book debts in Maoriland.
The Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves.
1904 £lOOO £4221
1905 .. £2307 Nil 1000 5528
1906 .. 800 Nil 5528 800
1907 .. 1747 2J p.c. = £535 1012 1000
1908 .. 2764 5 „ ~1331 1433 1000
This co. was born in 1887, which wasn’t a good time to be
born in up Brisbane way ; and, being loaded with good-
will and boom properties, it was soon in difficulties. In
1890 its paid capital was £75,993, partly in £1 shares
fully paid and partly in shares paid to 15s. At
that time the £1 shares were worth about 6s.
and the others about 2s. Then a long process of
writing down was undertaken. By 1898 the £1 shares
had been reduced to 10s. and the 15s. shares stood at
ss. 6d.—calls had just begun on the latter. Even that
wasn’t enough, and during the next 12 months the fully
paid shares were written down to 4s. 6d., and at the end
of 1899 the other shares were left paid up to only 9d. On
these contributing shares calls have been steadily got in,
until now the paid capital is £26,685 ; and as there are
150,000 shares of 4s. 6d. each (£38,750) in the co., there is
still £12,065 to call up. The co.’s worst trouble was that
it had borrowed largely to buy some of its properties at
boom prices ; but by going without dividends for marly
years, and selling properties when possible, and
so on, that dead horse has been pretty well removed
from the premises. In 1905 the total liabilities
£21,819. At that point, reckoning that it had
.practically huried the old corpse, the co. proceeded to
build up a new business on the gtave. In 1906 the old
brewery, a wooden affair which was rapidly becoming a
wreck, was sold for £16,250, although with plant it stood
in the books at £31,000. That explains the big writing-off
in that year. The new brewery, etc., has brought up the
property item from £19,171 as at June, 1906, after that
sale, to the present £40,964. To provide the money for
new premises, etc., £10,660 of capital has been called
in, and the liabilities have been increased by £8256 (from
£21,819 in 1905 to £30,075 on June 30 last). The
capital is now very small (£26,685), and, though
goodwill is still mentioned among the items, assets
ought by this time to have been written down to bed-
rock. For the past year the net profit was £1331; that
is after putting £1433 to a contingency account —and
when this co. has hitherto put money to a contingency
1 account it has never shown up again. But apart from
this special writing off, an unknown amount has been
charged direct to profit and loss to provide for deprecia-
tion. Evidently Brisbane takes a very cheerful view of
the prospects, since, though the co. has only begun to pay
divs. again, and has paid but 5 per cent, per annum so
far, the shares are above par. That means an investment
return of under 5 per cent., whereas in connection with
breweries nowadays it is the rule (with rare exceptions)
to look for about 7or 8 per cent. Any future increase
of dividend is, therefore, already considerably discounted
in this case.
* * * *
The City of Brisbane Building Society :
Dividends and Carried to
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
1899 .. £6O 5 per cent. = £36 £24 £lB
1900 ..123 5 „ „ 108 15 3
Reserves.
1901 .. 188 5 „ „ 167 21 18
1902 ..206 5 „ „ 199 7 25
1903 ..275 5 „ „ 255 20 45
1904 .. 260 5 „ „ 241 19 64
1905 .. 240 5 „ „ 242 62
1906 ..242 5 „ „ 239 3 65
1907 ..290 5 „ „ 261 29 94
1908 ..314 5 „ „ 296 18 112
The society has made better progress during the year,
a».id now has £6571 out in advances, as against £5034
twelve months ago. There are no foreclosures, and no
other property beyond office sundries. The shareholders’
capital is £6199 ; so that the society is trading almost
wholly on its own capital. Its only liability is an over-
draft of £276. From the very nature of things big profits
are practically impossible ; on the other hand, the society
is only risking its own capital, and not its own and a
mass of deposits into the bargain.
* • • *
Me Tasmanian Wool growers’ Agency Co. (B.
12/11/’08). Down to 1900, half-yearly accounts were
issued ; and in quoting the commissions earned in that
year that fact was overlooked. The argument, however,
was not at all affected, viz., that the expenses have grown
in a larger proportion than the commissions ; wherefore
in 1900 the profits were 53 per cent, of the commissions,
and in 1908 only 36 per cent., though all the business ex-
tension costs in the last year were not included with the
expenses. Of course the difference may be due to a re-
duction of the commission rates, so that the co. does more
work now for the same money ; but, however caused,
there are the facts.
* * * »
What was left of the Broken Hill cos., after the
B. H. Prop., Block 10, and the South Blocks had with-
drawn, met the men at Broken Hill last week, and pro-
posed to let thing's go on as they are at present. The
men’s representatives asked for time to think over it, and
a referendum will probably be taken. It is hard to say
how things will go, but the men will most likely accept.
What really scared a few of them into using wild language
was the threat of a reduction. What the cos. offer
represents something substantial, because the present
scale was adopted at a time of boom prices, two years
ago, and was about 12 per cent, better than had
been paid previously. The men, therefore, get
as a standard under bad conditions what they
only secured two years ago because extra-good con-
ditions then prevailed. If they stick at all it will be
because they are not offered a 44-hour week, which would
mean about 8 per cent, more in the co.s’ wage-costs. Of
course, it still remains to be seen whetherall the mines will
re-open even if the men decide to go on with the present
agreement. The British and Block 14 have had their
mills shut down during the year, alleging that they
couldn’t work them at any profit; and there has been no
substantial improvement in their metals since then.
Silver, in fact, is weaker. It is probable that the B. H.
Prop, and Block 10 will prefer to take their chances in
the Federal Arbitration Court, under which the men
have decided to register. There is little doubt that the
B. H. Prop, has a status in that court, as its works are in
two States ; but Block 10’s position is doubtful.
* • ■» *
Experience in Broken Hill mining has proved
it dangerous to calculate on the continuity of an ore body
which ought to pitch from one mine into another, but
very often doesn’t. Those theorists who said the ore shoots
of the South mine would be found pitching into the
South Blocks have come out fairly right up to now; but
then the mine is only opened up to 600 ft. There is very
little evidence as yet to back up the contention that
the big ore body found at the 970 ft. level of the
South mine will also continue into the South Blocks.
There is, however, a good deal to support the
theory that an independent shoot of ore—the
one now being worked on the upper levels of the latter
mine—will live to a considerable depth. But what
width will it be at, say, 1000 ft? The theory that it will
make big is based entirely on the slender fact that on the
200 ft, level a crosscut through the hanging wall proved
mineralised ground extending westward for nearly 300 ft.
Practical experience in the cases of the B. H. Prop, and
Block 10, where the ore bodies have been tried at a greater
depth than in any other Broken Hill mirte, indicates that
the shoots get narrow and short after the ore has reached
a depth of about 1200 ft. The Proprietary has practically
no continuation southward of the ore body on the 1400 ft.
level, although the shoot is pitching in that direction,
while in Block 10 the lode on the 1335 ft. level, as it nears
the Central mine (Sulphide Corporation’s) boundary, is
pinching out to almost nothing. On the 1465 ft. level of
Block 10 the ore body is also getting very narrow' as it is
driven on towards the Proprietary boundary.
From London comes a private cabled report that
Bewick, Moreing and Co. had a look at the Queen Bee
(N.S.W.) on behalf of Great Fingall, having got some
sort of an option ; the report adds that 8., M. and Co.
didn’t take to the proposition at the price. Yet, if
8., M. and Go. or somebody else who will remodel the
whole thing doesn’t take the Bee in hand, its prospects
are hardly w'orth considering. It is a tolerably good little
mine which is being wasted through having an equipment
that ought to be scrapped.
* * * »
Rich mineral ore is being found at the Junc-
tion, Wyalong (N.S.W.), at a depth of 800 ft., and some
substantial crushings should arrive with 1909. The
claim is, how'ever, cursed with a half-vertical, half-
underlay main shaft, quite unsuitable for deep-sinking
operations. The property could be much more advan-
tageously worked by the adjoining True Blue, which has
a good shaft dow'n over 1000 ft. Developments are work-
ing in this direction, as the Junction Co. has received an
offer from the True Blue Co. with a view to purchase.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for October :
Value
per
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, ton.
Great Boulder .. ..£16,806 £49,970 £26,458 59/6
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,637 54,720 20,156 44/5
Ivanhoe .. .. .. 19,618 43,310 21,040 44/1
Kalgurli .. .. 10,945 30,307 16,589 55/-
Associated .. .. 10,427 22,570 5.056 43/2
Great Fingall .. .. 22,240 27,088 4,358 24/4
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,512 16,033 2,285 27/10
Sons of Gwalia.. .. 13,401 18,496 5,535 27/-
South Kalgurli .. 9,031 12,506 2,564 27/8
Northern Mines .. 8,800 7,336 298 16/6
Associated Northern.. 3,760 7,758 2,890 41/3
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,472 11,183 4,052 50/-
Boulder Perseverance.. 18,037 27,495 6,432 30/6
Vivien 3,358 4,695 388 28/-
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,220 5,483 2,663 49/5
Golden Links .. .. 3,836 4,879 1,101 25/5*
Boulder No. 1.. .. 2,587 2,860 763 22/1
Hainan It .. .. 6,056 6,918 510 20/5
Lake View'Consols .. 7,846 12,003 2,015 23/6t
North White Feather.. 2,070 3,253 506 31/5
Gw'alia South .. .. 1,995 4,456 159 44/9
Karangahake .. .. 950 2,530 1,235 53/3
Ingliston Extended .. 1,850 2,100 38 23/9
Ida H 1,288 2,771 314 43/-
*Represents the net return per ton for ore sold to the
Lake View Consols.
(Return includes £2678 won from retreatment of slimes,
from which a profit of £1293 was netted.
* •* * *
Principal Westralian working costs for October
(some of them high on account of refractory ore, and
others low' as a result of skimped development or incom-
plete treatment) Gt. Boulder Proprietary, 19s. 9d. ;
Associated, £1 ; Golden Horseshoe, 225. 7d.; Ivanhoe,
17s. 9d. ; Boulder Perseverance, 19s. lOd. ; Gwalia South,
18s. Bd. ; Northern Mines, 14s. Id. ; Sons of Gwalia,
15s. 7d. ; Lake View Consols, 18s. 3d. ; South Kalgurli,
18s. 6d. ; Great Fingall, 18s. sd. ; Oroya-Black Range,
265. 3d. ; Vivien, 19s. lOd. ; Kalgurli, 19s. 7d.; Associated
Northern, 15s. 5d.; Golden Ridge, 21s. 4d.; Orova-Brown
Hill, 17s. Bd. ; Ida H., 325. Bd.; Ingliston Extended,
14s. Bd. ; North White Feather, 20s. Bd. ; Hainault,
14s. Bd. ; Karangahake, 15s. Bd.
On June 30, Lake View Consols (W.A.)
reckoned it had, exclusive of mine plant and standing
ore reserves, the following assets: —Loans, cash and
bullion, £81,085; investment account, £6OSO: sundry
debtors, £4606; stores, £9187; broken ore in stopes,
£24,984 ; and £71,855 w'orth of various scrip. The last
item is made up as follows£lS,77o six per cent, first
mortgage convertible debenture stock ; £25,000 second
mortgage debenture stock ; £lO,OOO fullv-paid £1 de-
ferred shares, and 10,000 ordinary 2s. shares in the Burma
Mines Ltd. ; 70,225 fully-paid shares in Broken Hill South
Blocks ; and 203,544 shares of ss. each (4s. paid) in the
Golden Links Ltd. The total value of this miscellaneous
wealth is set at £197,800 ; and as labilities run out at
£5720, a book credit balance of £192,050 remains. It is
almost impossible, though, to value shares held in such
big parcels, because if an attempt were made to realise


“PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual
that
Trustee Company
(Limited)
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE G.M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANCE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF CWALIA 8.84 „
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
; [3
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * * *
Dartium, for making steel castings out of scrap
steel and wrought iron" is becoming very popular, as
practical tests are proving its great value. One tenth of a
lb. of Dartium makes a lb. of steel from scrap boiler-plate
punchings, etc. In one case a 3-cwt. casting made under
the usual system proved a failure and was replaced by a
first-class Dartium Steel Casting made at the Engineer’s
own works. Users are now' convinced that they can
make all their own steel castings. Gibson, Battle & Co.,
Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street,
Melbourne, who are sole agents for the Dartium Syndi-
cate, are prepared to guarantee its success and will be
pleased to send full particulars to those interested.*
Required, a good gold, tin or
COPPER PROPERTY,
SUFFICIENTLY DEVELOPED FOR FLOTATION.
Reply with particulars to Private Box No. 630, General
Post Office, Melbourne.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-,
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The.type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt. Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. \Y. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* -* * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Wild Oat readers should get the Barrier
Miner, and read the series of articles on “The Broken
Hill Mines—Their Costs and Profits,” beginning Sep-
tember 19.*
A copper smelting furnace, designed to embody
the recommendations of the best Australian and America!!
experts, has just been constructed for the Great Fitzroy
Gold and Copper Mines Ltd., Queensland. The furnace is
of large capacity, being capable of turning out 100 tons of
ore per day. it is rectangular in shape, and is higher
in column in proportion to its hearth area than is
customary. By this means both the roasting and
oxidising operations will he conducted in the same furnace,
the oxidising being done in the upper portion and the
smelting in the lower. The furnace has two tiers of mild
steel water jackets. The lower tier rests on a c.i. plate,
supported on c.i. standards, or, should hearth plate be
removed, the tier will be swung on girders;, the upper
tier of jackets is always swung from girders supported on
columns. The columns are held together by a strong c.i.
frame. The air blast passes from a pipe encompassing
the furnace through Hustle pipes to the tuyeres, ihe
Austral Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne,
have designed and built this furnace.* U
* * * *
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, patented and made
“ Balata ” Belting, universally famed by its excellence
for heavy mine work. Their quality is still unapproached.
For protection against inferior imitations note the
maker’s name stamped on every few feet. Sole importers,
James Hardie and Co., Sydney and Melbourne. U
* * * *
The Journal of Commerce, Liverpool, August,
1907, writes in its review of the last annual report:-- To
peruse the report and balance-sheet of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited for the year
1906-7 is to acquire proof of a typically successful, care-
fully safeguarded, and economically managed modern
insurance office.” #
Wherever iron of superior quality and excep-
tional tensile strength is required engineers specify the
famous best Yorkshire “ Farnlky ” Iron. This iron is
made from refined pig iron, is puddled into practically
pure wrought iron, hammered and piled before rolling.
Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, have been appointed sole agents for the I’arnley
Iron Co., Ltd., Leeds, and hold representative stocks of
“ Farnley" bars at their warehouses in Sydney and
Fremantle, W.A.* # „
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will ™em all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherlands
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses .
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ,
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard btieet,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tun ax ” brand, which is
superseding* all others. Every belt is guaranteed. I
use on Broken Hill and other big mines m Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are Carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and .mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees tor Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Meplian
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spira.l riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria,* *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colltson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us fot
Inventors’ Guide.* „
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Bunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.
» ♦ * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
CHARTERS TOWERS.— Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
“A sergeant of the Dutch army no
mere corporal, understand, but a full sergeant-
writes to the Immigration .League to say that he
is “ verv anxious to go to Australia and obtain a
good position there.’ He “ encloses his portrait
in full regimentals,” and suggests “ that, as he is
not over-blessed with worldly goods, some young
Australian lady who has money should pay his
passage out.” Many years ago, a man who made
some sort of a living by writing couplets, etc,,
remarked that 11 the fault of the Dutch was giving
too little and asking too much ” ; but apparently
that small habit has been discarded. This young
Dutchman inferentially offers himself, full regi-
mentals and all, in return for a passage ; and
what can any Dutchman offer more than'that?
Unfortunately the Governor-Generalship isn t
vacant; and it doesn’t seem possible to offer any
less “good position” (passage paid by some
young lady) to one so magnificent as a Dutch ser-
geant in full regimentals.
LOHMANN (Sl COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
sole acents for nTTnR AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohltg, Cologne, as
'supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY m Excavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all hinds. [3
them the market might be knocked flat. Still the South
Blocks shares alone are worth in the market over £78,000,
or more than all the shares he , . by the co. are valued
at; so the. co. allows a wide margin for shrinkage.
The accounts show that the balance of profit brought
forward from the previous year was £llBB, and the profit
and loss account for the past year shows a profit of
£21,961, making together £23,149. It is proposed to
apply this as follows :— Writing' down the cost of the co. s
shareholding in the Golden Links, £1083; dividend,
£17,338; general managers’remuneration of 1 per cent,
thereon, £173. There will thus be £4553 to carry forward.
Among other items of interest contained in the report are
the announcements that working costs averaged 18s. 4d.
against 18s. 6d. for the previous year, and-that “Hail,
Columbia ” Hoover, formerly of 8., M. and Co.’s Australian
staff, has joined the Board.
* ' * * *
Cheerful reference is made in the Lake View
report to the present position of undertakings in which
the co. is interested. Broken Hill South Blocks are well
spoken of, and they deserve it. Burma Mines Ltd. are
said to have now reached that happy stage when “all future
anxiety as to finance is at an end.” As for Golden Links,
the pleasing announcement is made that the net cost of
the shares, which originally stood in the Lake Y iew books
at £7OOO, has since been reduced to nil by sales, and by a
proportion of profits made by ore treatment and set aside
for that purpose ; also, that 30,000 tons of 425. ore are now
in sight, to say nothing of a further tonnage of probable
ore. “ Sinks ’’ also get some lion, mention, and some re-
lief is expressed because the “ great success of theAinc
Corporation’s operations ” has practically relieved the
Lake View of any liability under a financial guarantee
given at a time when things looked horribly gloomy.
That accommodation gives the Lake A iew the right to
subscribe for 10,000 preference “Zinc’’shares of £1 at
Par - *
From London Daily Telegraph, which either
publishes the first thing it hears or has a “ set ” on facts :
“ It is now considered to be proved as conclusively as
mining affairs can be that the Great Boulder main lone
pitches into the Boulder Main Iteef at no great depth
below the bottom of the latter co.’s main shaft. The shaft
is now down to about 2000 ft., and ore worth 40s. a ton has
been in the shaft for the last 20ft. or 30ft. of sinking.
The Great Boulder lode should be picked up between
;, 300ft. and 2500 ft. , and the whole of the shoot should pass
into the Boulder Main Reef at 3000 ft.” The garbling of
facts and the spinning of newspaper fairy tales
about recent developments in the Boulder Main Reef
and its prospects of getting the continuation of
the Boulder lode is getting “over the odds.” The
facts substantially are aa follows. The ore met with
in the Main Reef shaft is not the continuation of the shoot
now being worked in the bottom levels of the Great
Boulder, neither has the last 20ft. or 30ft. of sinking fur-
nished 40s. values. As for the Main Reef getting some of
the Boulder lode between 2300 ft. and 2500 ft. and the
whole of it at 3000 ft., it will be lucky if it sights the
shoot at all at that depth. At any rate, that is the
decision of " Boulder ” Hamilton and other experts
whose opinions are worth something. *
At the end of September, South Kalgurli
(W.A.) was estimated to have 121,870 tons of 6'97dwt. ore
in reserve, and 95,890 tons of “probable ore ” averaging
6'13 dwt. per ton. Twelve months before that the actual
reserves were given as 111,039 tons of 7Jdwt. ore, and the
“probable reserves ” at 73,527 tons, worth6'6dwt. per ton.
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) has taken an option
on some undeveloped shows near Tampa (W.A.). This
belt of country was only discovered a few months back,
and since then trial crushings from a big lode formation
have given a shade under lOdwt. over the plates, and left
15dwt. in the sands.
* * •* *
Cooigardie Tindal’s brand-new mill was set
going the other day in the presence of two directors and a
few friends. A spree followed, at which Chairman Daw-
son praised the mine, damned croakers, and predicted
years of prosperity, immediate dividends, and increased
values. Well, provided nothing is kept back, the public
will soon be able to judge for itself. Meantime, it bad
better not commit itself. * *
So far the three tributing parties on the
Chaffers lease (W.A.) have treated among them 5341 tons,
of a gross average value of 19dvvt. 15g’r. As the tributes
are only for short terms, and as restrictions are placed on
depth of sinking and the number of men employed, the
cream ore is being taken out and the skim milk left be-
hind.
* •* *
Great Fingall Co. (W.A.) is now working the
West Fingall as a side-line. This derelict was first known
as the Day Dawn West. Then it was acquired by the
Consolidated Murchison Co. Afterwards it became the
property of the West Fingall. Finally it passed into
the hands of the Great Fingall. It has not been seriously
regarded as a mine for some years, but prior to that it
produced about £20,000 worth of bullion. Want of gold
in depth has been its trouble.
* * * *
Tenders are called for connecting Black Range
with the railway system in Westralia. This line will open
up new belts of country, provide cheaper fuel for the
mines already established, and help the gold to get out
of the floundering State, which secures so little (except
debt) in return for the vanished wealth.
* * * *
Sandstone Development Co. (W.A.) puts off the
33,000 reserve shares referred to in the recent half-yearly
renort. The market quotation being about 7s. 3d., the
shares, which have been underwritten, are to be offered
at that price. The show, which is on the underlay of the
Oroya-Black Range, was originally taken up by Sydney
Engineering School graduates, and the co. was floated
mainly among Sydney University men. As far as they
have gone, the voung engineers who have had it in hand
have had the satisfaction of seeing practically all their
estimates and forecasts justified by developments. The
point in doubt when the development co. was formed was
whether the lode, worked in shallow levels by Oroya-
Black Range, underlaid into the Sandstone. The co. has
crushed 2300 tons for £13,925 worth of gold ; and that,
with the picking up of the reef at various points, is as
o-ood evidence as most people will want. The time has
therefore arrived for the co. to provide its own 10-heqd
battery and go in for more vigorous development work ;
and that is the object of the present issue.
Concerning the Wiluna district (WiA.) such
magnificent romancing is being done in London papers—
most of the stuff apparently sent from Australia that
the public bad better look out. The yarns told are con-
cerning the be-au-tiful prospects of Gwalia Consolidated,
and the “enormous formations” in surrounding leases,
which have been acquired on option by strong firms.
Options by “strong firms,” followed by newspaper-
booming, generally mean only one thing—that the
“strong” firms want to hook the public, and the options
~-ive them a chance without much risk or outlay ; for
space in some of these so-called financial rags of London
is very cheap.
Anaconda copper mine (W. A.) has shut do »
and the employees were, at latest, waiting- tor t
weeks’ wages. The same thing happened under diner
ownership five years ago; on that occasion the'.
(which remains unpaid to this day) totalled £3OOO. .
audacious piece of defaulting, however, led to the pass
of a special Act making wages the first claim on
assets of a “ balancing” co., so that the sufferers in
present instance are sure of getting something, rai
to successfully treat the highly zinc-charged ore ls
reason given for the present stoppage. That is anotner
way of saying that ore-values and market value are t
low to meet the high costs.
* * * *
With the improvement in the copper market
and general industrial prospects, Ravensthorpe (W.A.;
picking up a bit. Additional smelters have just been
blown in, and concentration machinery is Upped to start
running in January.
* * * *
As a consequence of the recent two bad smashes,
a special Board has been appointed, and is now inquiring
into the system of working Mt. Morgan by the unaer-
ground chamber and pig-stye system.
inquirers—Senior-Inspector Milne, of the N.S.W. Mines
Department; J. R. Godfrey, who was mines inspector
with Dave Mdne at Broken Hill for years; Queensland s
Chief Mines Inspector Jackson ; and local Police-Magis-
trate Rankine. The first two have had a deal of expeii-
ence hi connection with systems of mining big and
rackety ore bodies; the others have had none. And,
since Mr. Jackson’s administration was practically on 'l s
trial, he certainly shouldn’t have been a member of the
Board. Of the two men who were responsible for intro-
ducing the sj’stem, the lamented H. P. Seale is dead ; the
other, Bowie Wilson, has left Mt. Morgan’s service, and
apparently isn’t to be called as a witness. Yet what he
has to say for his own creation ought to be well worth the
Board’s hearing.
* * * *
“Search Light,” from the Boyne Valley, back
of Rockhampton (Q.): Many Peaks, the Mount Morgan
flux show, 70 miles or so from Gladstone, is a
huge deposit of iron pyrites, which is well calculated to
extend the life and profits of Mount Morgan. The Boyne
Valley railroad, now under construction, will rail the
flux to the Golden Mount. Mount Morgan is feeling more
depressed than usual, owing to the two late accidents,
and an expensive campaign of re-timbering may be the
order of the day. The increased cost of working the
deeper levels will be considerable ; but it is absolutely
indispensable. Many Peaks is run on the most economi-
cal lines, and the profits of contracting there are not
magnificent. Mount Hector is importing coke for the
new water jacket, and Cannindah is in very much the
same old state. Notwithstanding their patchiness, they
ought, when the rail conies along, to pay an occa-
sional small dividend. When Glassford Greek smelter
shut down through the long-suffering hank turning rusty,
it was putting through some beautiful copper ore out of
an ore shoot that had been discovered some days before.
If the new deposit was what it looked, Messrs. Willcocks
and Stewart, into whose hands the mine has fallen, will
have something approaching a streak of luck ; though
the streaks of luck in this mine have always been uncer-
tain. Matters otherwise are in a comatose state ; but, as
copper looks up, inquiries are commencing to be made as
regards the many deserted mines in the district. An
American syndicate is waiting the completion of the
railroad to start prospecting' on three or four surface
shows ; but the agent is far from hopeful as regards the
copper market.
The Charters Towers market has been dull,
because both top and bottom levels on the Day Dawn
beyond Mills United boundary have not been shaping well
for the first 230 ft. of driving; still both of these levels
(No. 5 E. Mexican and No. 8 New Brilliant Freehold) have
more than 900 ft. to go to the eastern boundary. Share
market values fluctuate thousands of pounds at every de-
cided change in the appearance of the reef. The Mexican’s
best level (No. 6) has not been continued beyond the 100 ft.
mark ; the mine has lived for years on expectations, and
the management still isn’t taking risks with the market.
The most cheerful news comes from the hanging wall reef
in the New Brilliant Freehold No. 6. With five levels
going, the co. should be able to get out a general crush-
ing before the holidays. The market is sustained by the
belief that the return will be good, and that there may be
a dividend. Very solid men are backing this stock.
# * * * .
Bonnie Dundee is one of the few mines on
Charters Towers that seem likely to pay dividends—how
many is another matter. The main level is to be known
as No. 4, and the three intermediate levels will start with
No. lat the top of the rise. No. 2 level, which still re-
tains its old number, has a run of payable stone for a
length of 300 ft., so there is a big block of stone exposed.
The main level (No. 4), which is out 258 ft. from the rise,
has not yet picked up the shoot of stone, but prospects
have improved. The next crushing should be a big one
for this mine. Brilliant Extended should also get on the
dividend list; the large credit balance and the prospect
of opening up No. 18 level are favorable features. At the
Brilliant Deeps the new' reef is erratic both as to size and
value.
• * * *
The half-yearly report of New Brilliant Free-
holds Charters Tow'ers, will show the stone extracted for
the half-year to have been 1637 tons for an average of
£5 6s. per ton. This was taken out in driving the levels,
and included some low'-grade material. The main reef sup-
plied 1299 tons, and the hanging wall reef 387 tons. It is
estimated that the value of ore from stoping operations
will approach £7 per ton. No. 7 level contains the rock
on which hope is built, and great tilings are expected
here. The vertical shaft is figured to cut the reef at
1680 ft. early in the year ; and dividends should be forth-
coming before long. #
Durham Consols (Q.) half-yearly report records
the treatment of 597 tons of ore for 7620 z. gold, worth
£3 2s. 2d. per oz. The value of ore per ton works’ out at
£3 19s. sd. Slimes and sands on hand are estimated to be
worth £lOOO gross. A severe struggle has resulted in the
expenses being about £2O below the value of the gold
sold, and the bank credit stands at £lO7O. Development
work, it is claimed, has been carried on systematically
during the half-year, and the position of the co. is now'
much sounder than it had been for some time previously.
The last crushing w'as about 7s. a ton better than its
* * *
Points in the new Bill to regulate mining on
private lands, to come into force in Queensland in July,
1909 : (1) Gold on or below the surface is the property of
the State ; silver on land (other than that dealt with in the
Acts of 1860,1868 and 1872), copper, tin, opal and antimony
(on land alienated since March, 1899), and coal are also
reserved. (2) The Government may resume any land
alienated from the commencement of the Act, compensa-
tion being made for surface rights or damage, no allow'-
ance being made for gold or the minerals specified.
(3) No mining tenement to be granted on private
lands (such as yards or gardens) of less than half
an acre without the owner’s special permission in writing,
nor nearer than 150yds. to the site of a cemetery, church,
or reservoir, the Crown to decide the minimum depth of
workings below the surface. (4) If the applicant can prove
that he holds a tenement adjoining the private lands, or
has other means of access, he may obtain rights other
than surface rights, without the owner’s permission ;
otherwise he must deposit with the warden the amount
of compensation fixed by that officer, any part of which
may be paid to the owner in the event of damage to his
property.
Vulcan tin mine (N. Queensland) had large ore
bodies in the upper levels, and it w'as hoped that one of
these old shoots had been picked up in the deep ground ;
but the tin stone has been cut out by a floor of rock at
1050 ft. Prospects at the 1220 ft. level were also hopeful,
but here also the ore has cut out in the drive, though this
may only prove a temporary disturbance. A rise is to be
put up above this level, which will give an idea of the
extent of the ore body. Although the shaft has been
sunk below 1100 ft. and a hauling chamber taken out, the
Vulcan will have to do a lot of expensive development in
the intermediate ground. Work has been concentrated
on the main ore pipe, but prospecting has yet to be carried
on near the shaft, which, it will be remembered, inter-
sected numerous patches of rich tin oxide. The Vulcan
may get on to something to pay dividends with, but it is
just as well to remark that, even a modest-looking Is. a
share means a valuation of £52,800 for the mine.
-*■**•*
Woods Point (Vic.) mining retains none of tlie
flavor of the old days. Never was richer surface gold
got than was dug out of the quartz makes alongside the
dykes and from the veins intruding in the dyke itself.
Tne A 1 was the last of the district claims to show more
gold than quartz. All Nations is a mere reminder of the
old Titans. It pays an odd dividend now and then,
but promptly subsides until a pocket of gold is got to
furnish another “ thrum.” Victor’s Quartz has never
prospered since the management was grabbed by Mel-
bourne ; and New Loch Fyrie, despite market plugging,
lingers on the road to prosperity. Why cannot Woods
Pointers go further afield along the line of dyke towards
Walhalla, where there is more chance of hitting surface
wealth than in the hard country which they soon reach
when they sink in their own belt?
* * » *
Normanby North, one of the Ballarat East
toddlers, has looked like tumbling a score of times ; yet
every time it has managed to recover its balance. Wages,
contracts, fuel, crushing, and directors’ fees follow one
another in long sequence until a gross total of £68,913 is
made up. Never a dividend peeps out from among these
items of expenditure. It is the same with nearly all the
Indicator stocks. They flatter the vanity, but don’t fill
the pockets like the big low-grade proposition does. Not
that the Normanby North isn’t low enough when off the
indicators, for 7240 tons last half-year only gave 2369J0z.
With “low-grade” reported here and “poor dirt” show-
ing there, nothing would be so surprising as the early
payment of steady dividends.
Because Mount Bischoff Extended (Tas.) has
dallied with fortune for 25 years, it doesn’t follow that it
is at the stage of decrepitude. The flutter it has lately
had is, however, not established by any statement of ore
reserves in Manager Gulloek’s report. He walks half
way to the end of his journey, and then halts like a horse
about to be driven past the stable door. In some cases
he gives the height risen on, and the width of the shoot;
in others, the length driven on and the height, but not
the width ;in some cases all three. But he does not in-
clude in his report the quantities, worked out in pretty
table form—such statements as appeal to the man who,
even w'hen he has the data, is too lazy or too rocky in
his arithmetic to flog out these things for himself.
The directors say that reserves of payable ore are being
added at every level.” Very pretty, but not very definite.
With the mine looking weil, and the cash position fairly
satisfactory, these gaps should be filled in if the Bischoff
Extended is to rank among the mining worthies.
• * • *
Australia has got to the point at which the
development of its mineral Wealth is as much due to the
chemist and metallurgist as to the prospector. Waihi, in
Maoriland, laid idle before it was transformed by the
cyanide process. Mt. Morgan about the same time (1882)
improved so much on the chlorination process that
sulphide ore can be treated for 13s. fid. per ton, and
they now profitably handle 20,000 tons per month which a
few years ago would have been sent over the tip. The
’eighties also gave birth to Broken Hill, and the chemist
and metallurgist are still busy improving the extraction
and trying to lower the costs. The uplifting of Mt. Lyell
in the ’nineties was due to pyritic smelting, and the same
may be said of Oobar. Mungana and Chillagoe share-
holders depend upon the skilled metallurgist to cheapen
smelting ; and there are chemical difficulties to be over-
come at Litbgow. Altogether there is nobody that
Australia needs to more assiduously cultivate than the
metallurgist and the chemist —they are to be the big men
of the future.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) has crushed 168 tons for
339 oz.—over 2oz. to the ton. Now that No. 17 level is
nearly depleted, and that expensive development work
has to be done below No. 18, things are not very encour-
aging ; and, to make matters worse, shareholders have
got nothing out of the last extensive ore body opened up.
There is, however, a reasonable hope that some of the
payable stone from No. 17 will continue downwards ; also
the intermediate level 40ft. above No. 18 is developing
fairly well, and there should be a good block of groundup
to the level above. But at this depth it costs so much to
find and open up the bodies that nothing is left for share-
holders. The last dividend was paid in 1899.
» * * *
“E.R.”: Re the new S. Aus. marine-fibre in-
dustry (B 28/10/’08), some further progress has been made.
The co. to work it has been formed, called the Marine I ibre
Company, Limited. Its directors are T. B. Gall, solicitor ;
John Gordon, of D. & W. Murray, Ltd. : William Taylor,
of James Marshall & Co. ; and Ered Metters, who makes
ovens. The co. has secured 10 square miles at Tickera,
and six square miles at Moonta Bay, containing deposits
of the fibre. The Sunday name of the grass is Poseidonia
Australis. A Melbourne syndicate has also got hold of
some square miles of S.A. land whereon the thing grows.
It is stated that the poseidonia will make a good substi-
tute for kapok, that it takes dye as readily as wool, and
may be an effective substitute for jute. It has not been
discovered as yet on any part of the globe outside
Australia. The method of obtaining it will be by dredg-
ing and a suitable dredge will lift 1000 tons a day of sand,
fibre and shell, producing - , it is calculated, 50 tons of clean
poseidonia. It has been suggested that when the fibre is
mixed with silk or wool—for it will combine easily with
either —the new fabric might be termed Mermaid silk or
Mermaid cloth.
* * * *
T.A.T. : Why not send your vigorous remarks
to the rag that said so? Tarnagulla: Under the cir-
cumstances named, take a whole-life policy ; for while
you’re struggling with your business you thus buy most
protection for your family with least money.
The legal battle over the concentrating tables
continues, and the High Court last week revoked one of
the patents operated by N. Guthridge, Ltd. The firm,
however, intimates that this has no reference to the
“Card ’’ table as now manufactured, that machine being
protected by patents of a later date.


1,,
All Storekeepers.
VALENTINE A.
SOUL,
76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
RED CROSS
FILTERS.
PURE
WATER
MEANS
PERFECT
HEALTH.
Requires
■very little
\ attention,
and you
HAVE
PURE
CRYSTAL
WATER.
Post Free.
J=inch, 3/6
|=ineh, 4/6
Tank, 4/6
U»
w
Typewriting, Book-
Keeping, Correspondence* Business 1
Commercial Law, Electrical
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering,
Architecture and Building Construction,
Freehand Drawing, we coach by
Post for all Examinations.
Write for " HOME STUDY,” Post Free
Stott's tto ares
Business College
St Sydney.
Sdf
B.C.
o&H
B.C.
“Post Your Order
Direct
to
Us!
It does not matter where you live—thousands of miles away,
perhaps—yet you can obtain our Catalogue, which enables you to
secure the Best of Clothes, etc., at the most reasonable prices.
Smart Sac Suits, to your order, from 50/- upwards. Ready-to-
Wear Clothing for tropical or cold climates, Boots and Shoes,
Shirts to order and Ready-for-wear, Pyjamas, Dressing Gowns, Hats,
Caps, Collars, Ties, Umbrellas, Leather Goods of all kinds, Uni-
forms, Ladies’ Tailor-made Costumes. Send a post card for Catalogue.
Now! Absolute satisfaction is guaranteed or money refunded I
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THAT WEIRD EXPECTANCY AGAIN,
Life on Hungry Flat; Dad’s turn to kill.
“ Hassan ” on a branch of Art :
“ Liarbird ” (B. 5/11/’08) objects to a par. which, one
gathers, runs like this : “ A blackbird’s nest has been
found lodged under a North-eastern railway meat-
waggon, which has just been returned to Tweedmouth
after travelling with goods from Edinburgh to London,
back to Edinburgh, and then on to Tweedmouth. The
waggon was being cleaned when the discovery was made.
In the nest were two eggs.” “ Liar B.” growls at this for
its simplicity of statement, its lack of graces and super-
fluous frill. Now, I consider it an example of supreme
art. Ars, especially in the building of a delicate
thing like a lie, est celare artem. The first object
of a lie is to deceive ; if it do not that, though its inten-
tion be excellent, it fails in technique, and is mere men-
dacity—a thing which no good liar can admire. “ Not a
quip here, nor a quirk there,” complains “Liarbird.” A
quip or quirk would be out of place in this inspired
thing ; it w'ould w’eaken the appearance of truth. One
light word would allow the reader to see that the liar
could be flippant, imaginative. As the par. stands, it is
apparently the work of a bluff, simple fellow, who has no
more wit than to state facts. It is a beautiful thing, a
masterpiece that “Liarbird” will perhaps appreciate
when his tail grows.
* * * *
“ Boronia ” : “ Oswald D.” (B. 15/10/’08),
in disputing my statement that the brumby is just
about wiped out, gets himself tangled consider-
ably. As for his assertion that up to a few weeks
ago there were hundreds of brumbies on the Upper
Blackwood (W.A.), I simply don’t believe it.
During the past year I travelled over a good many
miles of that country, and failed to catch a glimpse
of even one, let alone hundreds. “ Oswald D.” is
under a delusion in believing that brumbies
will continue to breed in the Upper
Blackwood on account of the miles of use-
less country there. Brum doesn't confine himself
to rough and poison-infested ridges; he pre-
fers good grazing country to dine on, the same
as other stock. “ Oswald D.” evidently imagines
that brumbies will remain in districts which aren’t
settled ; but settled or not they will all disappear.
The Donelly Hiver country, which I quoted as a
place where the brumby had vanished off the sur-
face of things, is dozens of miles away from any
settlement whatever. Yet they all passed into
oblivion. Kangaroo-hunters and shepherds, who
penetrate to all parts of the country, are the great-
est offenders in this matter of brumby-slaughtering,
and the Upper Blackwood has had a good share
of those persons.
* * tr *
“ Liarbird ” : The laughing-jackass is a
hopeful kind of ass. Even during the green and
juicy days of early spring-time, he is able to work
up bushfire enthusiasm over a mere slow burning-
off of felled scrub, and induces himself to believe
that the lizard and snake and polypede will
shortly begin to abound on the outskirts of the
conflagration, as in the good old days before Fede-
ration. To-day, a fatherly sort of bird sat upon a
bough, 4ft. away from a bunch of flames contained
in a wrapping of thick blue smoke. The smoke
and fire rose about the bird, and the bird turned
tail and stayed where he was. Presently, he
again reversed on his perch and peered over the
smoke at me. “ Any luck ?*’ I asked. The bird
opened his mouth, and shut it again, too full of
smoke for words ; and then once more he bent his
anxious gaze upon the litter which covered the
floor of the bush. Nary a living thing crawled
there ; not an ant stirred, nor a grub fidgeted at
the approach of the flame. The smoke from the
verdant scrub rose in volumes and smote the jack-
ass in the ear and eye and nose. He struck his
beak viciously upon the bough and cast another
furtive look at me, and shook the smoke out of his
feathers. Then he sighed, gave his tail a cheerful
swing as the flames crept within six inches, and
flopped lazily across the burning belt to a tree
some 15yds. away, beneath which a precisely
similar conflagration was in progress.
* * * *
The mariner who navigates his iron tub
half-way across the world only to fall heavily on
the doorstep of a foreign land is a person to be
commiserated over. The
big, four-masted barque
Falls of Halladale, which
Went ashore on the Vic-
torian coast on what
looked like a clear night
but wasn’t, is an instance
of what a vicious animal
the sea is, and how mis-
fortune swims ever in the
wake of the best ship and
the most experienced sea-
dog. The skipper of the
Falls had spent 35 years at
' sea without a wreck, and
had, on the present occa-
sion, navigated his vessel IQ2
days and nights, and to
within a few hours of Port
Phillip Heads. The barque
was sauntering along at three
o’clock of a clear, moonlight
morning, apparently miles off the
coast, when suddenly land and rocks rose up out
of the deep as if they had been sent up by the
Devil on a plate. A frantic hauling round of
yards only served to swing the ship broadside on
to the reef, and two or three rollers finished her
and her £50,000 worth of cargo in as many seconds.
* * * *
Some pretty big loads of wool have been
brought into Longreach (Q.) lately. These have
been hauled by teams of from 26 to 38 horses.
The team of 38 was hitched to a waggon which
had on board 12 tons of Westland station wool.
When this turn-out was near Arrilalah rain came
on, and the waggon sank in the soft ground, and
remained bogged for a week. Finally it was
hauled out by a team of 44 horses and 24 bullocks,
and the language of half-a-dozen or so drivers.
COMPULSORY MILITARY
TRAINING.
As it may be, if we don't train ourselves.
“Moreover”: I would like “G.S.K.”
(B. 19/11/’08) to pat me wise as to the exact situa-
tion of his interesting hill-climbing billabong in
the Bourke district. It is really too bad that I
have missed it during 20 odd years’ wandering, in
these parts. To forestall any dispute as to the
formation of the true billabong, let me give the
following definition : A river, cutting off a section
of the old channel, by wearing a new course, will
leave deposits at each mouth, thus forming an
arc, lake, or billabong. Thus, in flood time, the
current may sweep both ways from the top junc-
tion, but it seems just peculiar that it should run
up from the bottom end.
t- * * *
“ Werrimee ” : “ Agricola ” says (B.
19/11/’08) that many people have had reason to
wonder where parrots find breeding places, as
their nests are not very commonly discovered, and
they lay not more than three or four eggs in a
clutch. Why, any bush youngster will find par-
rots’ nests every day in the
week during the season. They
are as easy to find as mag-
pies’ nests, for the parrot is a
fool bird that gives itself
away all the time. When
the nest is in a green hol-
low the parent birds chip
the bark off around the en-
trance, a biting habit pecu-
liar to nearly the whole
family from the large cocka-
toos down to the little para-
keets, and thus advertise their
domicile as clearly as if they
hung a brass plate on the
front door. If it i 3 a dead
tree this particular sign doesn’t
work so well, but in any case
the everlasting squawk of the
young ones another family
characteristic—easily locates the
home. Almost any small hollow
suits the parrot, whether it be at the
top of a lofty gum, near the root of a
small box, or in a rock. Neither has the bird any
particular breeding locality ; it breeds anywhere
and everywhere. The cockatoos lay only two
eggs, but some of the smaller members deposit as
many as 10. There are always eight or nine eggs
in the blue parrot’s clutch.
* • * *
“Agricola”: Bower birds, looking for
material wherewith to decorate their ballrooms,
are attracted by anything in the shape of metal
on account of its glitter. From Cunnamulla (Q.),
one shearing, a number of combs and cutters dis-
appeared. They were discovered, some time
after, in a bower, and were removed again without
explanation or apology. In one district, honored
by my presence for a space, the bowers were very
common. Trappers and fossickers always called
at the bower when they needed a buckle or a
button, and the article was generally forthcoming.
Pipes and pocket knives, and, on one occasion, a
bunch of keys, have been found in the bird’s
dancing apartment. Considering the size of the
birds, it is a marvel how they manage to transport
some of the articles which take their fancy. A
trapper of my acquaintance found a shilling in a
bower. After that he called on the bird regularly,
but always found the cash-box empty.
Rodney Cockburn, of the Adelaide Regis-
ter, has published a book describing how the
places in the State come to get their names. This
is the final analysis: Aboriginal, 14 per cent. ;
named after Governors and their families, 8;
after places in the British Isles, 13 ; after Euro-
pean celebrities, 16; “descriptive, foreign and
miscellaneous,” 15. The rest, one-third of the
whole, are “named after colonial entities and
nonentities.” Thus “sheer personal vanity” is
responsible for 57 per cent., says the Register,
and the scarcity of native names is “ a matter of
everlasting discredit to the early Governors and
Governments.”
“ Silas Snell ” : We had started out from
Lefroy, a small northern Tasmanian mining field,
for the Piper River, on a duck shooting expedi-
tion, and a few miles out we came upon the
camp of Harris and Olliver. We knew we were
approaching a human habitation some time before
coming upon Olliver and Harris, being apprised
of their whereabouts by the symptoms of a furious
dispute—yells, howls, curses, and the “bat, bat,
bat” of heavy blows. Harris and Olliver did not
offer us conventional bush hospitality. They
were too busy. In fact, they were fighting like
fiends. Stripped to the buff, without seconds, the
sole spectator a one-eyed cattle dog, they punched
ON HYDE PARK.
SCHOOL BOY: “Don’t you get awful tired doing
nothing, Mister ?”
THE TIRED ONE: " Terrible! But I don’t com-
plain; everyone has their troubles.”
and biffed with tremendous energy, and when
they got into holds they cursed each other, hair,
hoof and hide . We sep arated them, and endea-
, , ™ , f. . , ’ , ,
vored * :0 effect a reconciliation, but uselessly, and
when we passed out under the gums we were fol-
lowed by the rattle of Harris’s profanity, and the
boom of Olliver’s body blows. We returned on
„,, , , ■
the . llowm g evening, and looked mon Olliver
and Harns. Ihe prospectors were at tea, feeding
amiably on fried potatoes and boiled sausages,
Both had black eyes, but were as cheerful and
loquacious as the best of friends. We expressed
our amazement. “Oh, me an’ Dinny’s old mates, ”
said Harris. “But,” I said, “you were leather-
ing the soul-cases off each other.” “Well,”
Olliver cut in, “ you don’t think we’re goin’ to
fall out over a little thing like that, do you ?”
OUR MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There s a mine that can’t be floated, up along’ at Anyplace,
Though ther’s certin indications of its richness on the face.
She’d go three ounces sure at depth if she was opened out,
But it ain’t a minin’ distric’, w’ich inclines the folks to
doubt.
But we know it’s worth a forchune, fer we’ve worked it
nigh a year,
An’ hardly took out tucker stuff—it hasn’t run to beer,
But that ain’t no valid reason fer to doubt the show is
right,
Per the leaders they are bonzers, an’ ther’s tons of ore in
sight.
We’ve panned out fifteen ’weight from stuff a foot below
the ground;
An a mug could get a color fer a half a mile around.
Ther s kaolin an’ mundic an* a sort o’ chalky clay,
An ev ry indication that at depth she’s bound to pay'.
It was found by Billy Thompson (or, maybe, it was Jack
Smith) ;
An’, from the jump, the folks around they christened it
The Myth.”
It s the joke about the distric’, an’ they jeer 11s in the
town.
The advice we get is mainly—" Chuck it up ; it’s got yer
down.” ■'
But our faith is underminished, an’ our hope’s as good as
new ;
Per the stuff is there—we know it— an’ we’ve had it
assayed too !
It ain’t no poor man’s diggin’s ; it’s the capital we need.
But the ignorance of moneyed men ’ud cause yer heart
to bleed.
Ther’ was once we thought we had our lips right close to
forchune’s cup :
A syndikit in town they took an’ sent a hexpert up—
A bloomin’ bandbox hexpert, with a boxer on ’is head.
He took a look around the show an’ “ Huh 1 ” was all he
said.
He went back an’ reported to his syndikit below.
I dunno wot he said, but they declined to touch the show.
Them an’ the’r precious hexpert, with his theories an’
sich !
It don’t take no book learnin’ fer to see that she is rich.
Ther’s the wife—she '.ets to frettin’, an’ she ses we’re
wastin’ time ;
She ses she’s tired o’ waitin’; an’ Gawd knows, her life
ain’t prime.
But I’m toilin’ fer her hard enough. An’ ain’t we got the
claim ?
Wot do women know o’ minin’ an’ the chances of the
game ?
I sits by her o’ nights an’ tries to picter wot’ll be
When people comes to reckernise our splendid property.
With our carridges an’ horses—an’ the folks that sneer
an’ scoff
’Ull be proud enough to get a nod, when once we float
'er off.
We’ve drawed up plans an’ Aggers— calkerlated to a bob
The cost of the machinery an’ plant to do the job.
An’, when you come to think on it, it’s curious, somehow,
Ther’ ain’t no moneyed men around is game to risk a
thou.
It seems like a conspiracy was formed to keep us down—
Amongst the minin’ hexperts an’ the capit’lists in town.
But we ain’t took to desparin’. Ther’ will come a time,
some day,
When folks ’ll quit the’r chuckin’ off, an’ then, ive’ll
have a say.
There’s a mine that can’t be floated, up along at Any-
ivhere ;
There are two old, worn prospectors fighting hard against
despair —
Patient and pathetic figures, honest and sincere enough
Toiling on a proven duffer, hardly earning tucker stuff.
And they know ’twould pay for working
if someone would foot the bill,
But, somehoiv, it can’t be floated, and
it's odds it never will.
vie.
C. J. DENNIS


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lilt and all Modern Conveniences,
Tel. 321.
F, 0, Robinson, Proprietor
“ I shall never be healthy,” said Leah.
“ Stuff and nonsense,” said ma ; “the idea.
For your ills, which seem chronic,
You’ll find pills Laxo-Tonic
A never failing and safe panacea.”
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
°f Scrubb’s Cloudy Fluid Ammonia
added to a warm bath, renders it as refreshing and stimu-
lating as a sea-bath. As a household article it is invalu-
able, as, in addition to instantly removing stains and
grease spots from clothes, it is also useful for cleaning
silver-plate, jewellery, and glass.*
are pouring in—many are opened.
This year’s feature is the increased
weight of the Solid Silver
Knick-Knacks and Toilet Silver.
The requirements of the English
Hall Mark (as amended) necessi-
tates greater weights.
We are selling all Silver Goods at
the English Wholesale Cata-
logue Prices, LESS 4s. IN THE £,
Unheard-of prices these.
We have a large variety of designs, suitable for Presents.
PLAIN FICURES
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Lee Chong, arrested the other day up at
Croydon, in the wire-and-whipcord Gulf Country
(Queensland), has his own ideas about what lock-
ups are for. “You letteme go, Missa Pleece
man,” he said ; “me welly poor, sick -. No
good cuttem wood, no good cleanem lockup; no
good anything. Too muchee sick. Better you
letteme go.” And then they fined him £3O for
selling opium-charcoal to Billy the black.
“Jim ” swears it is a true bill:—
When N.S.W. Premier Wade dispatched his 50 police-
men to Broken Hill, because he was told there was going
to be a flare-up there, he evidently did so without reckon-
ing with the sanitary men of that peaceful and unsewered
city. These gentlemen were highly indignant when
they heard of the policemen’s approach, and they
took counsel, and said: “Let us go in unto the Mayor
and protest, for this is an abominable thing that Wade
has done, and our stomachs revolt at it.” In good time,
a number of them ceased from their labors, and a depul
tation appeared before the Mayor in his small and stuffy
parlor. After the deputation had remained there a few
minutes, and had stated its case, the Mayor w r as greatly
overcome. Snatching his hat, he rushed' into the street
and repaired to the police station next door, where he
sank into a chair, and a cold sweat broke out all over
him. “For Heaven’s sake,” he gasped, “get Wade to
stop those policemen, or my sanitary men will go out on
strike. They have threatened to strike unless the police
are recalled. What am Ito do? Why, the city will be
given over to typhoid fever in a fortnight! ” “My dear
sir,” urged the Superintendent, “don’t allow such a
trivial matter to upset you. Go back and reason with
those men, and tell them ” “ Go back ! ” shouted the
Mayor. “ Not me. I’m not going back to that room for
a week at least.”
SMOKE O!
A feature of five new mail steamers for the Anglo-Aus-
tralian service is a smoking lounge for ladies.
SAILOR MAN (from above): “ Say, mum, would yer
mind a-hevin' this ’ere skylight shut? The
smoke’s a-makin’ some of the gennelmen on
deck quite sick! ”
“Stony”: Melbourne Argus has been
conducting a Twelve-Best-Birds plebiscite. Here
is a list of twelve lovely birds :
The Reid-Wobbler.
The Yassberra Crow (distinguished by a brass band
about its neck).
The Kyabramapootra, or Australian Dodo.
The Boobookmaker ’Owl.
The Joey Babbler, or Snapping Cookoo.
The Jack Wren.
The Brighton Boomer (a knight-bird).
The Wi 11 ie-wag tongue (almost extinct).
The Little Kelly Lark.
The Tregear Tell-tale-tit.
The Baldheaded Eagle of the Rocky Mountains (now
moulting).
The Alexander Peacock.
CHEEK.
GINGER MICK: “Could yer gimme suthin' to cat, kind lady?"
UNKIND LADY : “I'll bring my husband out if”
GINGER MICK (moving off hurriedly): “ Wouldn’t be no use to me, mum. I’m a strict
vegetarian.”
In the way of race-mixture, not even the
kauri sum-diggers of Maoriland can beat the
wood-choppers who supply the Kalgoorlie mines.
This work is “regulated” by companies which
built their own little private lines and let con-
tracts, and most of the contractors are accused of
having long ago knocked large holes in the immi-
gration laws and hauled consignments of Southern
Europeans through the orifices. Italians, Aus-
trians, Bulgarians, Serbs and Czechs are mixed
with an occasional Englishman of the legion that
never was listed, with a few Swiss and
Frenchmen, and a sprinkling of Syrians, though
these last have mostly given the graft best. The
men from the south of Europe were mostly brought
out to do the chopping at prices which Australians
wouldn’t look at; and when they found that
they had been working at less than the stand-
j ard wage they began to want to break things,
i Even when prices improved they couldn’t be
] convinced that they were not being taken
down (as they often, no doubt, were); so the
wood-choppers these times are a hard lot to
handle. But they are scattered, and they
speak about 97 different languages, and
mostly each little lot reckons that the next
little lot of another nationality isn’t of much
account; so there has been no cohesion, and
the frequent strikes have petered out. A few
weeks ago the cabled noise that Austria was
preparing to eat Turkey and any other part
of Europe that wanted to be made a meal of,
stirred up the Austrians—the biggest single
section among the choppers—and they de-
cided on having a row of their own. They
roamed the timber country armed with
poles, and generally held things up. Italy
didn’t want to knock off work, but a camp of
30 Italians was informed that it would be
•wiped out if it didn’t. Of course the pot
didn’t keep on the bubble long, but it was a
furious bubble while it lasted.
* * * ■*
“Moorabinda ” : On the plains of the
Northern Territory there are numbers of the
gouty-stem tree—one of the strangest vegetable
growths of Australia. The gouty-stem is usually
a pyramidal mass of wood springing from the
earth to a height of 12ft. or 20ft. From the top
sprout a number of straggling branches, which
bear a scanty crop of leaves; the flower is a star-
shaped, sweet-smelling blossom, and the fruit, large
and egg-shaped, is a solid white mass, in which
is embedded a quantity of flat seeds. The fruit
is pleasant in taste, and is one of the stock articles
of native food. The trees do not seem to flourish
near Port Darwin. They are always of scattered
growth ; I never saw them growing in the bush,
or in large clusters. Some of them are of enor-
mous size. One which was measured in the Gas-
coyne River district was 40ft. in girth at the
level of the ground, and 63ft. at a point 9ft. above
the ground. Some villainous travellers take delight
in digging deep holes in these remarkable trees,
which act of vandalism leads to the vegetable’s
speedy death. In some parts of the Territory the
tree has a symmetrical shape, looking like a huge
beer bottle with a plant stuck in the neck. This is
called locally the bottle-tree, and is clearly a dis-
tinct species from the common gouty-stem.
Where these trees abound (both species) you can
always be sure of finding water, as they grow
only in good, fertile land.
THE PRODIGAL PAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The celebrative wine is drunk, and Saturday’s sands
are run ;
The cookshop goods and the fatted meats are eaten,
every one ;
The fine cigars are dwindling down, and we’ve come, in a
whirl of sound,
To Sunday morn—and the prodigal pal has failed to blow
around !
We’ve drunk his noisy health full oft; Bill Brown from
’way Outback !
He should have dined to-night with us, his pals on the
city track ;
We’ve got our racketing clobber on, with an extra shirt-
front shine—
And the prodigal pal is still a prod, from the haunts of
speech and wine.
He didn’t, come back, as a prodigal should, on time to
meet his pals,
And perhaps he’s off down town with a bunch of other
prodigals ;
But he’s lost his chance of a fine lay-out—for the dead
marines are all •
Set up in rows and rows and rows around the pantry wall.
He’s lost his chance of a splendid spree, for this is the
Sabbath morn,
And next month’s pay is a month away, and the cellaret’s
all forlorn ;
He’s been Outback for years and years on the prodigal
person’s lay,
And now he’s back in the city at last —and he treats his
pals this way !
We’ve drunk his health in absence, since the stuff is here
to drink,
And now, at “ Auld Lang Syne,” we stand on Sunday’s
beerless brink,
With the prodigal pal gone loose in town, and the spree-
cash all of it spent;
And it’s later on, when his mouth is dry, that the prodigal
will repent!
The wine is all but drunk —we’ll take a sup at parting,
boys ;
So here’s his final health: Bill Brown! —and a roar of
joyful noise
In honor of him, our absent pal, who should have been
with the push ;
He’s missed the fun o’ the world-old Bill, just back from
the thirsty bush !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Marne: That maiden who beseeches Harold
for “time,” and chides the lad for pressing her so
vehemently to announce her engagement to him, and
then accidentally drops the letter into an envelope
addressed to Augustus, isoverdone. This particular acci-
dent—which always occurs on purpose—has been happen-
ing repeatedly ever since the advent of the postal system.
Augustus is selected as the consignee of the missive owing
to his being the one youth of the maiden’s acquaintance
who is certain to dash round and publish the untruthful
betrothal item A.V.S.: About 14 dozen persons have
remarked to us by letter, wire, telephone and otherwise
that the numbers of Dyed Garments in the Cup and of
the horse on Tim Lonf. Hand cover were identical. The
subject is as stale as a Cross Bun that has beenjcold a
year Migget: Note that the Yankee fleet-deserters up
your way broke for freedom (1) owing to t'he Judkinsese
state of things aboard their ship; (2) because they
objected to being bossed by a buck nigger. The objec-
tions strike us as valid Silex : “Our Terrace” has
been handed over to the office house-demolisher
There is a quality about “ Pictures ” that makes us realise
our mental limitations in depressing fashion. After
studying the poemlet attentively for nine minutes by a
reliable stop-watch, we were as far from grasping what
the blazes it meant as on a first perusal of it J.W.A.
(Brisbane): Not even reasonably new G. Neilson : The
same trouble A. P. Foott: The same trouble again
O’Donnell: You’re on an old pitch. Besides, when you
want to say “ We saw the huts,” don’t, for Heaven’s sake,
say that they were “suddenly presented to our gaze.”
Oh No : Noted months ago that the sisal hemp culti-
vated up North is an agave, and that St. Helena prison
has produced fibre for market. Others no value... .Min-
dook : Old, and only medium when it was new 7 D.L.S.:
Fun re Tough Steak is labored. Most of the fun anent
Tough Steak is labored these days, somehow Bedouin :
Too hackneyed. “My love—starsabove,”" Star arise—ope
your eyes,” “Winds are free—love to thee”—such tags
would invalidate a Shakspeare sonnet.. ..Remedy : The
“ Baroscopes ” are useless... .W.C.K. : There are great
possibilities in the subject, but you haven’t done it justice.
P.J.D. : Alas, there are so many writers who go
out beneath the stars and think of the girl who
was their girl but is now another fellow’s girl....
F.I.D. : Attack on prima donna has been hurled aside.
It was so venomous that it insinuated into our mind a
powerful suspicion that the assailed was a bosom friend
of yours... .Spectre : Thought rather well of it for a
start; then decided that we didn’t have enough excla-
mation marks to see all the shrieks through... V.M.S. :
Your muse possesses ideas and a gift of expression, but
she is as slovenly as a female drunk. Either induce her
to be more careful or divorce her R.W.B. : “ A Birth-
dg# Review ”is premature. No writer ought to review
his past life in verse till he has put a full half-century
behind him R. Mac : Neither of the suggestions quite
up to high-water mark Rei Panes: Good, but not
quite good enough to support the metre you use ...The
Wasp : The finest item in this week’s batch is the poem
entitled : “ The Assassination of Sophie Lewis—A Fearful
Crime of the Early Days of Melbourne. Lines Written
After Having Viewed the Gruesome Model of the Tragedy
in the Melbourne Waxworks.” We cannot print it, how-
ever, as the terms of our editorial license debar us
from publishing any verse—whether rhymed, blank, or
blanky—that has been inspired in a waxwork show
Nraef: Graceful and pretty ; but, alas for the metre !....
J.E.P.: Both the prose sketch and the verse have
quality. They do not miss by much Gerald B. : Sorry
.you don’t ever quite “arrive.” You seem to have the
poetic instinct without the faculty.. ..Ida B.W. : Suffers
from lack of concentration and precision of style. In a
word, it flounders... .Traveller : Doubtless, as you say,
founded on fact; but you haven’t made fact interesting.
The Magpie: A strong “situation,” feebly treated.
.... Night: We could do nothing th it in that form....
H. E.P. : A very crude piece of work . .The Navvy:
Graphic, as far as it goes ; but that isn’t far enough ...
A.G.C. : Handed over to our Collector of Vile Verse....
Sam Cornstalk: “Eumby” is rather smartly rhymed.
The others are no good Gse : A certain merit in
“Shifting Scenes,” but your touch is too heavy
—a fatal defect in poetical scene-shifting... .Cora J.:
The little story which consists of the little won-
dering child asking curious questions about God is
bumped out every time E.F.C. : “The Wedding at
Hickory Flat ” hasn’t enough incident in it to keep it from
falling over its own feet Sandy : Your views on Hell are
very old and used up....H.M.C. : You mean well, but
Sydney, whatever its drawbacks, deserves a louder whoop
of praise than you give it... .G. ltussell: Letter received,
with many thanks... .Benita: Jokes rather flat, and a
joke that is flat is only of use as a billiard table or a
spirit-level George O. : That “recumbent position”
jest doesn’t look new. We heard it either in this incar-
nation or a previous one. Possibly it was when we were
Vitellius, the fat and lying-down Emperor of Rome....
Eegeebee: The rhymes kill it dead. They include
“horses”and “sauces”; “after” and “waft a”; “re-
porter” and “water": “tiller” and “grill a.” These
things are impossible Platman : The big trouble is that
the suitable lands are alienated, and the scheme wouldn’t
touch them. “ Miner’s right ” occupation works all right
on mining fields because 19 times out of 20 the field is
discovered on unalienated lands Kangaroo: “Long
Odds” finished “down the course.”... St. Cornstalk:
Poem re little lad whom you knew in early life as “Jim,”
and encountered afterwards in possession of a mansion
and motor car and an unaltered Christian name,
fails to touch us Kaban: Nicely phrased and
rhymed, but the absentee Australian with a longing
to find himself amongst the “golden wattles,”
“gums” and “curlews” once again grows pallgome....
G. A. : That unpleasant worm story flourished in England
in our grandfather’s day D.M.S. (M.L.): You say, in
one of your poems, “ My faith received a deadly chill.”
Well, why didn’t you put its feet in mustard and water?
G.M. W. (Malvern, Vic.): Johnny is the most uninter-
esting drunk that ever fell into the basket ...A.H.M.
(Narrabri): Sorry unable to use any of that batch. But
you almost arrive. Try again... Wally Lee (M.L.):
Sketch called “ Harry ” received. You say in your first
line: “He wasn’t a bad sort.” No; he was a dull sort.
... Carte Rouge (M.L.): You didn’t boil that poem
sufficiently J.S.H. : Go and write no more The
Plunger : You are too explicit for a poet. For instance,
you say of old Brown :
He was a rather portly man with a waddling gait and mien,
For, truth to tell, this same old Brown was very far from
lean.
A true artist would have glossed over Brown’s figure....
H. : Facts you cite are hardly new enough for print.
You aren’t the first pro-Jap by many thousands who got
over his complaint as a result of visiting the gentle yellow
man among his native smells A.M.D.G. : Nothing
new, bright or otherwise satisfactory about your yarn of
frail females, wherefore it will make for the greater glory
of our weekly burnt-offering to the deity Slush R.C.:
We believe you as to the originality of “The Unseen.’*
That and its obscurity are the poem’s main troubles..«
8.W.: Nothing in “The Lay of the Golden Crest.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
George C. : You haven’t arrived yet. And why not try
the simple device of putting the gag on the back of the
picture to show which picture the gag belongs to?
A.M.A.: It isn’t exactly art. Don’t exactly know what
it i5....H.M.5. : Judging by the legend appended, you
mean the animal for a dog, but it looks more like an ele-
phant with the front object amputated. Also the hens
are sft. high C.W.M. : The idea that all mayors and
mayoresses ignore the letter “h” is quite a mistake.
And in any case the legs of the man in the picture are
absurd.... Watho : Picture profoundly amateurish ; joke
American and venerable Doris J. : The purely impres-
sionist picture won’t reproduce Lutin : Crude and not
funny Atlas Quits His Job: The curse of incompre-
hensibility, and the curse of faint blue pencil, and the
malediction and disadvantage of muddle lie heavy upon it.
“Nulla”: A dog with a good deal of
individuality about him was Sykes. I knew him
years ago when he lived at a pub I frequented.
He was a yellow mastiff with a retriever cross
complicated by a dash of bulldog and a refining
tinge of greyhound. Sykes was primarily a
watchdog, and a very original one he was, too.
His method was to allow all and sundry to pene-
trate the pub yard that he guarded. In fact, he
would welcome them. But once a visitor had got
inside, Sykes raised strong objections to his
leaving, Late arrivals who, after surround-
ing their snakejuice, endeavored to forsake
the premises, found the outer gate impass-
able, Sykes barring the way hideously and
screaming at them. The situation necessitated
knocking up the boss and purchasing another
drink; also it probably endeared Sykes to his
master. Sykes once won a prize. His triumph
occurred at the local show. The pub groom,
after coaxing Sykes to wear his most depraved
expression, dragged him on to the ground at the
end of a length of bullock-chain. The appearance
of the twain caused a frenzied stampede
amongst the cookies’ wives and daughters. How-
ever, Sykes was voted the finest sample of
bloodhound ever seen in the district, and was
decorated with a blue ribbon accordingly. Sykes’
tastes in food were simple. A few eggs and a
chicken for breakfast, a bit of a joint, roast or
boiled, for dinner, and a pound of butter, a
quart of milk or some such trifles in between, and
he was satisfied. There was a lame duck in the
yard, and nothing gave Sykes greater pleasure
than to grab it by the wing and slowly and
methodically drag it up and down the premises.
Some people said that this explained the bond of
sympathy between Sykes and the groom. It
saved the latter much sweeping. All this was
years and years ago, yet am I sure that, at the
present moment, a big, liver-colored, heavy-jowled
dog is dragging a frayed duck around that Out-
back pub yard. Such dogs and such ducks ne verdie.


lire (pnoretofion
"Tell me tt>e old °ld story,
itjeiK eyes‘fowA^s
-ttfie St-ufflino, while tij*
ikferjecfo*' w&s ♦'CfrjoVOd >
jjVeSS report"of Service
*+- Rev Tr<?syv's ]
sewt" Government
re sfefcle.
a,|«trjchfs i* l Ibc House •
(/*¥*)
The Census
“ WhaCt
reJ»^‘« n n f'SS •
" 6 ehtrtfe!"
-/ ' I
Tell hrse fife sfor'y slowly, I tn&y it”ir7.
jsrsuan sw 5“ ~t—. ■
The Secrecy of Melb Commie
received ktfer
k ro j > clyfls lp >2 «S Carried ©« V clergy »* «be
of rfe [Daily ftfcrj
y >i m /
; J> a y
<3>yj w^
common rock»- unjustifiably removed -prom Vr
bosi^on N intferevrs of jus-bee °f
-Itjc S+&Te demand her re instate me n't" recouping
iw-Ce. Government" of *ll he*' expenses. “ ■>
y L A % g J
-^oice
The_
Ve.*t
Here, 1 wae’ft** give
his <*«s€ !
Cot'll First": Hcs it.
A\ r .referred .
-tb S-fete of' |»Vtt«S »»> •
■ftje Federal -
Should V reduced
Would \or govern *7**r 2*2
Sound Imes
IN MELBOURNE AND OTHER PLACES.


Joe Cook has taken over the leader
BUNG'S BACK AGAINST TtfE
wall.
Mr. R. St joke, secretary of the Liquor
Trades’ Defence Union, says “the time
for plain speaking to the trade has
arrived. The message from Haoriland
Is : Fight, or you will be exterminated I
It is no secret that a few hotelkeepers
at the last New South Wales poll delib-
erately voted for reduction.”
Why all this pother about simplifying the uniforms of our defence forces ?
Why couldn’t the matter be left to the Individual taste of each unit ?
London, Saturday.—The second
I‘eadlng of the Licensing Bill was
rejected In the House of Lords by a
majority of 176 votes.
A sitting of the House of Lords
under normal conditions.
But at the mention of Beer they B |i
up and take notice.
CARTOONLETS.


A Christmas Letter.
Dear Odol I write to ask
Kindly send a little llask
Of my very own to use
As my darling mammy does.
Just to keep my teeth all right
Make them nice and clean and bright.
Quite a tiny one will do,
Send one for my dolly, too.
Odol keeps the teeth white and bright and
the mouth delightfully fresh and fragrant.
Mr. E. Holland, Hair Specialist, of 195 Collins-
street, Melbourne, desires us to notify that Mr. W. Scott,
of Sydney, is no longer authorised to act as agent for the
sale of Mr. Holland’s well-known “Marvellous” Hair
Restorer, Naturaline, Parasene, or any of his preparations
for the growth and improvement of the hair, nor to
receive monies on Mr. Holland’s behalf.*
Up here in the mountains and scrub.
Where we live on the poorest of grub,
We’ve cured so many ills
With Laxo-Tonic Pills
That we’ve formed a Laxo-Tonic Club.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10id. and Is. 6d.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
As to how the virtuous Bent’s good friend
Swinburne became a Rechabite, it is stated that
oneof thebrethring—an estate agent—was actingas
Swinburne’ssecretaryduring thelastVic. elections
time. The Rechabites objected to their brother
acting for the candidate unless he also was one of
the persuasion, there-
fore Swinburne took
the pledge and
broke it It was as
easy as falling off
a log.
FATS DEATH ANGEL.
“Fisher in power! Gentlemen, Labor is hounding- us
to death. lam prepared for anything, and if they came
into my house and took all I have I should not 'be sur-
prised.”— From a Tory gent.’s remarks on recent crisis.
Some birthdays for December : Opposition
leader Dick Butler (S.A.), 58 on the 3rd; Dr.
Mackellar, doctor, banker and M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
64, and W. A. Zeal, 78, on the sth; Premier Tom
Bent, 70, and missionary Dr. George Brown, 73,
on the 7th ; Cricketing Association Secretary Jack
Cress well (S.A.), 50 on the Bth; the brainy
Justice Sly (N.S.W.), 59 on the 17th; Botanic
Gardens Director Guilfoyle (Vic.), the man who
once, they say, punched an errant Governor, 65
on the 11th; Joector Carruthers, 51, and J. W.
McCay, 44, on the 21st; ex-J udge J. J. Casey.
Australia’s chief authority on cookery, on the
25th ; Professor Chapman (S.A.), 42 on the 27th ;
Admiral Bedford, 70, Philp (Q.), 57, and Dugald
Thomson, 60, on the 28th.
The unfortunate kid who knows nothing
of the joy of having a holiday or illegally chasing
a bees’ nest has turned up again, this time at
Maryborough (Q.). His name is Alfred Crane,
and he has not missed a day’s school since he
started in pursuit of education 10 years ago. Poor
kid !
Jupp Gardiner is alleged to have got off the
train at Gundagai (N.S. W.) the other day and given
the station cab-driver the order : “ Drive me to the
pub where they don’t keep a Chinese cook ! ”
Whether the driver obeyed doesn’t transpire.
Probably not ; for the Chow food-burner is a
commoner object in the normal backblocks hos-
telry than beer. Still the forlorn-hope attempt
should stand to J upp for a certain amount of
righteousness.
One of S. Australia’s ancients died the
other day—“ Pastor” Abbott, aged 95. In S.
Australia, as The Bulletin remarked the other
day, they always built a chapel first thing ; and
“Pastor” Abbott, who was just plain Jacob
Abbott then, helped to put up the first Methody
tabernacle in Adelaide, in 1838. He left for
another sect afterwards, but the Methodies had
got a good start in the little Hindley-street con-
venticle, and to-day in that State they represent
26 per cent, of the whole population, while for the
rest of the Commonwealth they don’t climb higher
than 12 per cent.
“ Spring’s ” reminiscence k —-
When the genial and useless George Reid was Premier
of N.S. W., he made a triumphal progress up the Clarence
River. All the pumpkin and potato kings who could
spare the time off went with him. Just as the bucolic
sycophants were becoming a bit muddled at the festive
board and the stout gentleman rather cynical with food
and other things, a humble steward, who had been driven
mad by his inability to eat as much as George, threw
himself, with a hearty shriek, into the Clarence.
There was a wild and trite yell of “Man over-
board ! ” The bucolics rushed, lurched, staggered,
crawled, and proceeded up the stairs from the saloon in
time to witness the heroic departure of a mate of the
suicide. When the latter returned with the rescued one,
whom he had found wallowing in about two feet of
water, he expected to see the great statesman awaiting
him with a crown of laurel or something', but no Garge
was there. The bucolics feebly cheered, and ushered the
hero and his subject down the stairs. The great man was
just polishing off a last jelly, to which he had helped
himself from a sideboard. He stared blankly at the
intruders, then placed his pet eyeglass on his eye and
languidly drawled, “ Hello ! did yeh get him ? ” Then he
went to sleep.
J. 0. L. Fitzpatrick, M.L.A., of N.S.W.,
i-B alluded to by the Labor party as the “ Political
Jackal” of the Wade Ministry. He
might better be described as wood and
water Joey to the Sydney Telegraph.
Whenever the King-street journal “fea-
tures” any subject—newspaper postage,
the Sydney-Melbourne express, the
Settlement Leases, or anything' else—
little Fitz can be depended on to table a
ponderous string of questions in Parlia-
ment, asking Wade : —(1) Is he aware ? (2)
Has it come under his notice? (3) Has
bis attention been drawn ? Fitzpatrick
isn’t personally aware of anything until
he reads the headings of the Telegraph,
and then he can’t rest till he finds out if
Wade has heard of it also.
“ Oby,” about a stupendous per-
sonage :
Bruce Smith is really something admirable. He re-
mains funereal, awesome, ceremonious, stupid, and
honest. The others haven’t his defects—at least, not all
of them —but who of them have his virtue ? For the
Premiership of a State or the Prime Ministership of all
Australia Bruce would not abate one ounce of his
stupidity, or one speck of his pomp, or one vestige of his
honesty. Amid the scramble he stands aloof with a pity-
ing smile. To him it is only a trouble of ants in the light
of the innumerable refulgence of the great luminary
Smith.
Clarence O’Hagan writes :
The more I read of Wade and Bent, the more I feel a
sweet content to know Australia’s destinies, and all that
in the future lies, have been placed in far better hands—a
Parliament that understands! —men eager to advance
the health and welfare of the Commonwealth ; men who
will make Australia strong, and push the White Man’s
Cause along ; men of resource and high intent, called
forth to rule a Continent; not narrow, jealous, bitter,
rude, reactionary, weak and crude. This fills me with a
calm content the more I think of Wade and Bent! The
more I hear of Bent and Wade, those politicians retro-
grade, the more I marvel and despair that men could
vote to place them where they are— and let them still stop
there! Their brag, and fume, and cant, and whine, their
flabbiness and lack of spine ; their platitudes, their pious
pose, their silly shrieks of “wrongs” and “woes”;
their foolish, flyblown “ policies ” (which neither benefit
nor please) disgust and sicken all who think and drive a
lot of us to drink! The Federal Parliament, no doubt,
holds here an ass and there a lout, a casual hypocrite or
two—Assemblies generally do. But when I mark Adolphus
Bent, I bless the Federal Parliament; and when I think
of Gregory Wade, I thank the Lord that it was made !
William Melrose McDonell, who for a
quarter of a century did his duty
well and truly as a maker of
beer at the Carlton (Melbourne)
Brewery, has gone to where
they only brew nectar. Long
before he joined the Carlton he
acted the man for a strenuous
hour when, in 1859, he was one of
the crew of the only lifeboat that
reached the Admella, a ship that
tried to shorten the passage from
London to Sydney by crossing
Cape Northumberland. Of the
300 souls on board McDonell and
his mates saved 19, including
the late Hurtle Fisher; the rest
were drowned. McDonell was a
sailor on the Ladybird at the
time, and happened to be there.
Arthur Ross, a recent arrival from Eng-
land, is now on trial at Gayndah (Q.) charged
with murdering James Muir on October 18, in
the Commercial Bank there. During the magis-
terial inquiry, Ross, who is only about 19, struck
attitudes at every chance, until Police Magistrate
Vaughan had to explain things to him. When
asked to plead, he replied in the tones of the stage
hero, “ I reserve my defence for a higher tribunal.”
Ross is rather a good-looking youngster ; but the
penny novelette had given him a distaste for mere
work. When employment was offered him he
always remarked that he knew how to make
money easier than by working for it. Coming to
this country, 12 months ago, he commenced at
Childers, where he got into trouble by taking the
“easier way,” but got the benefit of the First
Offenders Act. The evidence in the murder case
isn’t overwhelming; but the youngster is an
interesting study.
TEMPTATION.
At a meeting at Armadale to-night, Mr. Fairbairn, M.P.,
said that his party desired that Mr. Deakin should come
over with them, and that before very long. —News Item.
THE RAGGED ROVERS' DELEGATE (to Vice-Captain
Deakin): “Say, Deak! Drop y’r hat an’ join
our team, an’ we’ll make yer captain! ”
Died at Hornsby (Sydney) the other day
Samuel Allen, one of the business pioneers of
North Queensland. He went to Townsville in
1872, set up stores, later on added a brewery or
two, and for 30 years past a lot of the liquor with
which Townsville, Charters Towers, and the North
and West have wetted their throats has come out
of the Allen stores and breweries. Twenty years
ago or thereabouts the business passed to Samuel
Allen and Sons, Ltd., of which Samuel was the
first managing director ; and later on he
came south. He was 78 when he died, and long
years of battling in the North, where the white
man can’t live, hadn’t taken the edges off an un-
usually keen intellect.
Bananaland’s new Clerk of the Assembly,
C. Holmes a’Court, is the fourth son of the second
Lord Heytesbury. First, he tackled squat-
ting in the North, then spent a year as
A.D.C. to Governor Cairns. After that,
he joined the Assembly staff. In 1880,
being then 37, he qualified for and was ad-
mitted to the Bar. The original Heytesbury
w r as Wm. A’Court, who, after being Am-
bassador at Paris, became Governor-
General of India, and afterwards Lord-
Lieutenant of Ireland. The family has had
a queer habit of getting licenses to change
its name. First, it was A’Court. Then
it was A’Court-Holmes (by license). After
that it became Holmes a’Court (more
license). Brisbane’s Holmes a’Court has
been four times married—the last time, in
1901, to a Tasmanian widow, Mrs. Ralfe.
The Bananaland Labor party has had
six leaders and one acting-leader, and all
have attained Cabinet rank except the first
(Glassey) and the last (Bowman). One ex-
leader, Anderson Dawson, was State Pre-
mier and Federal Minister for Defence.
The others were Browne, Kidsfcon, Airey
and Kerr, who have all held State port-
folios. Of the four ex-editors of the
Worker, one is a Kiastonian M.L.A., one
a Queensland Government land agent, one
a dentist and the other a leader-writer on a Tory
daily paper.
Stonewall Jackson Solomon was the name
of a witness in a collision inquiry in Brisbane the
other day.
Chief-Justice Darley’s expressed intention
of closing his days in England, reminds that his
predecessors in office (excluding Julian Salomons)
all thought this country good enough to deposit
their bones in. (Salomons’ bones aren’t vet de-
posited.) Forbes’ dilapidated tomb will be easily
remembered in the old Devonshire-street cemetery.
On the advent of the railway the contents of the
graveyard were removed, the remains of Forbes
going to La Perouse. Chief-Justice Dowling’s
dust was also removed from Devonshire-street to
the Waverley burial field. The remains of
Martin and Stephen lie at Jftandwick.
HIS THINKING APPARATUS.
WISE OLD MAN : “ Wotchcr doin’?”
LITTLE BOY : “ Coaxin’ ’im to shew ’is ’ead.”
WISE OLD MAN: “ P’raps ’e ain’t got none.”
Roderick Murchison, for years past chief
officer of the Bank of N. S. Wales in Victoria,
goes more than half-way out; he becomes “ local
advisory director, ” an office the big bank creates
for him. Victorian “ Society,” which has always
allowed itself to be petted by the gay old bachelor,
never more than half suspected the real weight he
carried in Melbourne’s financial world. But it
had a suspicion of his own financial weight: prob-
ably there’s only one working banker in Australia
who would care to honor his own cheque for a
bigger amount.
“ J.G.,” from Bendigo (Vic.) :
Bendigo has the doubtful honor of providing a camp-
ing place for a lovely pair of members of the Australian
Parliament in the persons of Jamie McColl and John
Quick. McColl got into the Vic. Parliament years ago,
because his father, Husrhie McColl, wasn’t a bad sort
with the cookies of the old Mandurang electorate,
and when the cookies were hit with droughts, 1 iughie
talked frequently of irrigation. Then when he left the
lobbies for the last division, the cookies thought they
couldn’t do better than send his son Jamie to take his
place. James held on to his seat all right, but developed
no brilliant talents, although he reached Ministerial office.
Then, at the inception of Federation, McColl got in for
Eehuca as a Protectionist, having only Max Hirseh,
Single-taxer and Freetrader, to beat. When it was de-
cided to cut out a Vic. seat from the Australian Parlia-
ment, the greatest part of McColi’s electorate was hacked
away. Perhaps it was thought that he was the easiest
member to get rid of. Having lost his seat in the Reps.,
McColl hunted about for another, but couldn’t find one,
so he nominated for the Senate, and grabbing hold of
Simon Fraser’s coat tails, and anything else that came in
handy, he actually got in, on the combined votes of
Anti-Sosh, Yellow Pups, Protraders, Freetectionists and
sundries. He squared things by spouting Protection
occasionall}', and voting Freetrade on critical divisions.
Some of his somersaults were wonderful to all beholders,
and his latest action on the Capital Site question, when
he deserted the site he had nominated himself and voted
for the chosen site of the State Frighters, must be a very
pleasing thing to his supporters.
John Quick seems to be running McColl a dead-heat for
shiftiness, and it is pretty certain that the Bendigo Federal
electors will treat him as did the old Sandhurst State
electors on one or two occasions, and empty John out of
the Australian Parliament with considerable violence.
Quick gained entrance to the Australian Parliament by
his strong advocacy of Federation, but during the last
few years, instead of helping the young Commonwealth
along, he has yapped behind the State Frighters, whose
sole object appears to be to tear the Australian Constitu-
tion to rags. And now that the Labor Government has
come into power the rage of the State Frighters is some-
thing wonderful. Quick says that it is a pitiful thing to
see Deakin going out of office and recommending
Fisher as his successor, and that he is lost in contempt at
Deakin accepting- notice to quit without protest and
without showing fight.
John Quick also said at Heatheote that if only Deakin
had asked him and the rest of the corner men to help
him when the Labor party drew off, they would
have come along and supported him. Quick seems
to forget that on every occasion when the Labor
party, or the bulk of it, went to a division on a
critical question against the Deakin Government, he and
the Iceberg and the other Irvine, also Knox, the un-
speakable Palmer, and the rest of the nondescripts that
sit with Quick, rose up as one man and voted with the
Labor men. They did that when Webster launched his
motion in reference to the Post Office control. And
when the final vote was taken before Deakin left office
Quick was with the Labor men and against Deakin;
According to him, if Deakin had come and grovelled to
him for support he would have got it. But Deakin
didn’t grovel, and Quick voted to put the Labor party in
office. An amazing person is Quick.
FROM THE LAND
OF DREADFUL
DROUGHT.
STRANGER (to Sydney publican): “ Quick! Quick!
Beer for God's sake I’ve o’ny just escaped
from, Maoriland.”
The trouble between Dr. Beattie, of
Liverpool (N.S.W.) Asylum, and Inspector-
General Brodie was not the first of its kind
between the chief officials of Sydney institutions.
In Governor Bourke’s day, Dr. Mitchell, father of
the late book-loving Mitchell, conducted a bitter
fight with Inspector-General Thompson. Dr.
Mitchell had charge of Sydney Hospital, and
refused to attend the early morning floggings at
Hyde Park corner. His continued absence from
floggings was regarded as a breach of duty by the
Inspector-General of Hospitals. Mitchell was
dismissed, but the feud raged in the civil court
for a lengthened period, and the doctor finally
secured a verdict for £lOO damages.
THE PAPER KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King Edward himself is very much of a Press-made
monarch. — Melb. paper.
The battleaxe kings are dead,
The kings to whom war was sport;
The ladves fayre have fled
From the reeking, torch-lit court;
The knights have ridden away
Far into the Land of Sleep,
And the owl, like a spirit grey,
Dwells high in the silent keep.
The battleaxe kings are dead,
And the spider waxes fat
Where the Burgundy ran red
And the lusty archers sat;
The wind, like a minstrel’s soul,
Moans ever about the walls
That shelter the toiling mole,
And echo the night bird’s calls.
The battleaxe kings are dead,
The Paper kings in their place
Rule with their sceptres of lead
A quiet and bloodless race ;
The cables under the sea
And every wire that sings
To the south wind blowing free
Are the working threads of kings.
N.S.W'.
E.O’F.
THE ROYAL READER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The German Emperor on Saturday received an address
from the ! urgomaster of Berlin on the occasion of the
municipal centenary of the city. In replying-, the Em-
peror read a printed speech, which was handed to him by
Prince Bulow, the Imperial Chancellor.—Cable.
I am the Royal Reader, and
I read my speech aloud ;
The Chancellor of this my land
Stares at the list’ning crowd ;
lie understands —they understand
(I read my speech aloud !).
I am the Royal Reader, and
I’ve done my royal dash ;
I am the clumsy Mailed Hand
That makes the nation’s hash ;
I understand— they understand
(I’ve done my royal dash !).
I am the Royal Reader, and
It’s my inspired speech ;
I read what other brains have planned,
Until the end I reach.
I understand— they understand
(It’s my inspired speech !).
N.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.


•msssatmmrn
*9
CO
N
i'W.'e
i
£3®
«
:s
ipfl
mi
A
il
liiits
if#
«
ill
’ll
i*
Stas
i - ; - !
**
;■
m
: "
IS
I
:*:
k 5
is
RS
Another feather in the Cap of
Australia and “ THREE
CASTLES” CIGARETTES!


YOU CANNOT FEEL GOOD
When your digestion is out of order. Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules digest what you eat, thereby curing
the cause of your indigestion. Obtainable everywhere,
price, 2s. 6d. per tin.* '
Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
Willis’s book, ‘ 1 Life of Crick, ” is going to boom.
Orders from all parts of the Commonwealth are flooding
in. Mr. Richard Scott, Box 1553, G.P.0., Sydney, is the
agent, to whom all orders, payments, etc., should be sent.
A special edition is to be issued at ss. each, post free all
over Australia. This will be a nice library copy. Orders
should be posted at once to R. Scott, Box 1553, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Order now.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by O. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “ peaceful ” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Pimples, eruptions, blotches, scales, ulcers,
and eczema are all caused by bad blood. Cham-
berlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets are wonder
workers in the cure of all disorders caused by bad
or impure blood. They eliminate all poisonous
matter by enriching the blood and enabling i
make new and healthy tissues. Pure blood means
perfect health, and if you Wlll l u , se
Tablets they will give you good * a pU e
clean skin free from pimples and blotches.
Crippled by
Rheumatism
“ Pretty well all my life I was subject to rheu-
matism, and I had a very bad turn of it six years
affo ’’said Mrs. Price, 15 Church Street, Pyrmont,
Sydney. •“ All my body got affected, particularly
my arms and legs.' My finger joints swelled and
got so knotted that my hands were quite useless,
and my ankles were all puffed up. I was helpless
and unable to move in bed unless helped. I had
a rope provided that I could pull myself up on.
I could only sleep by taking medicine from the
doctor, otherwise I would never close my eyes.
The pains burned and gnawed till I was nearly
distracted. I had fomentations of turpentine and
different liniments, but all to no purpose. For
three months I was just helpless with the agony.
At last I started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
they did me a vast amount of good. As I kept
on with them the pains gradually lessened and my
joints got more subtle, so that I could take hold
of any article I wanted to with freedom. My
fingers got less inflamed and tender. Before
many weeks I could move fairly freely, and as I
went on with the course the pain gradually ebbed
away altogether. To-day my health is very good
indeed.”
Dr. ‘Williams’
PINK PILLS
2/9 per box ; 6 boxes 15/3 at all chemists and
storekeepers, or from the Dr. Williams
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
This Elastic Truss
á
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The importing craze seems to have got
hold of Premier Phidston (Q.) badly. Recently
his Government not only imported a couple of
motor cars, but also, it is alleged, a chauffeur to
look after them.
Bent’s latest unnegotiable promissory-note
is an intimation that he intends to reserve an area
of 3000 acres of coal-bearing land at Powlett River
(Vic.) for a State coal-mine, to supply the rail-
ways, etc. If Bent would honor a few of the sheaf
of p.n’s he has already given, the public might
take this one seriously. There is the State brick-
works p.n., for instance —suppose he honors that
one for a start, instead of letting the interest on
the money wasted on the abortive job mount
steadily up.
SCARED AWAY.
With the advent of another Labor Government ,
it's about up to Capital to leave the country again.
The fact that the unstable Bent has hung
up the Murray Waters Bill, so far as Victoria is
concerned, leaves that harassed question to wander
at large, like a hairy animal in a forest, for another
half-year or more. Taken by and large, the
Murray waters agreement seems a failure—or at
least it seems to start on a wrong basis. It aims,
for one thing, at keeping the lower Murray (in
S.A.) navigable, and Australia, except in one or
two rare spots, can’t spare fresh water for naviga-
tion. It wants to navigate by train and keep its
fresh water for irrigation. The Murray question
ought to be approached afresh with the naviga-'
tion aspect of the case wholly left out.
Minister for Defence Pearce has already
made his initial grab at the dyed feathers Aus-
tralia wears in its fighting hat; and if he doesn’t
manage to rip out a handful or two, it won’t be
for want of trying. To the ordinary plain-clothes
person with a plain-clothes mind, there doesn’t
seem any reason why a man should pull the
counterpane off a fowl and stick it in his hat to
indicate that his intentions are warlike. If
feathers are essential, let every soldier have his
hat dinted in on top, and let him carry round the
complete fowl alive. The warrior would then
have the eggs as well as the upholstery. Some
provision of the kind would have robbed the cam-
paign in South Africa of half its horrors.
Apparently Bent Thomas has found some
Minister stronger than he knew among his fresh
dummies. The other day a member asked “Agri-
culture ” Downward a question, on which Bent
blurted out, “I’ll answer that—Aye, aye.” Then
Downward calmly rose and read out his officially-
prepared reply, which wasn’t altogether to the
same effect, while Adolphus sat back and glared.
A day or two later ’Dolf announced that for the
future he would only receive deputations relating
to his own departments—Treasury and Railways ;
the others must go to the Ministers concerned.
Dr. Maloney, M.H.11. for Melbourne, is a
recklessly generous little man with a fine disregard
of consequences. Witness this notice which stands
in his name on the business paper of the Reps.:—
That, in any scheme of pensions, provision should be
made, so that any person risking his or her life to save
that of another human being shall, if in need, become en-
titled to a full Old Age Pension, and, should the rescuer
lose his or her life in the attempt, his or her next-of-kin
shall become entitled to a double pension.
No doubt the doctor’s intentions are of the best,
but the Treasury isn’t full, and a scheme by which
about four old age pensions (some of them likely
to run for 40 or 50 years) might be earned any fine
Sunday on Bondi beach alone would be a terrify-
ing circumstance.
Melb. Herald remarked casually the
other day, as though it were mentioning the
weather or the state of the pollard crop or some-
thing trifling, that in March, 1902, Thomas Bent
bought from the daughter of the late G. Ward
Cole two blocks of land at North Brighton, one
16£ acres and the other 8|- acres, for £7OOO. A
year later the Bent Government authorised the
construction of the Brighton electric railway,
which runs right through this property ; and the
work was done without reference to the Standing
Committee on Railways. By way of sequel, a day or
two after the Herald’s announcement this land
was put up for auction, in 60 blocks. The reserve
was only £4 per foot, which meant about £14,000
for the two paddocks. But the simple public
failed to bite, so after five blocks had been sacri-
ficed at an average price of £3 6s. the proceedings
closed.
Opposition-leader Cook spoke severely to
the Fisher Ministry about its alleged abandon-
ment, whenever it began to carry the burden of
Ministerial responsibility, of its theories about
the nationalisation of the shipping industry, the
nationalisation of monopolies, the progressive
land-tax, etc. “As soon as the Government sets
up in business,” said J. Cook, “it clears the shop
windows.” All these things might be said of
Cook himself and with much more truth. He
was originally a Labor member. He signed the
Labor platform when, instead of being the
business-like affair it is now, it was a blaze of
straight-out Socialism. Then Reid offered him a
job as the tail-end of his Ministry and Cook
cleared the—well, he didn’t exactly clear the shop
window for he never rose to the dignity of a win-
dow, but the haste with which he removed the
liver and other sundries from the board in front of
the cats’-meat barrow was unprecedented.
S. Australia never had a rum currency—it
had most respectable beginnings, had S. Aus-
tralia, and always put up a tabernacle first
thing—but still the land-grabber managed to
get there just the same. In spite of the fact
that its good land is a mere handful, there
are a dozen holders who pay the tiny land-
tax on over £lOO,OOO worth of country lands.
That fine, healthy absentee, the South Aus-
tralian Co., pays on £405,728 in respect of
country lands (their real value is much
more); and the Canowie Pastoral Co. pays
on £205,374. After them come the Angas
estate (£200,388), the Browne estate, the
Robertsons, the Duttons, and the Bowmans.
There are 14 owners who, even on the pre-
sent valuations, will have to pay the maxi-
mum of 3d. in the£ of the unimproved
value if Treasurer Peake’s graduated land-
tax goes through ; £lOO,OOO carries the maxi-
mum.
An evidence of the awful slump in
Britain is the official statement that for
the year just ended the amounts withdrawn
from the Post Office Savings Bank exceeded de-
posits by £2,216,344.
Maoriland took the duty off kerosene
lately, and it finds that it has had its reward, in-
asmuch as the price has gone up.
While the duty was on, the
Standard Oil Trust had to con-
sider the danger of the local pro-
duction of oil from local shale,
and it kept the price fairly low
to discourage any such competi-
tion. When the duty was taken
off all idea of local competition
was abandoned, and the Trust
bumped up the price. Of course,
if the high price induces local
competition, it will bump the
price down again till the local
competition is killed, and then
return to the high figure, but it
isn’t likely to have any trouble
of that sort. Even if the Trust
puts oil up to 10s. a gallon, now
that it has the market to itself,
that only means that it is all the
better able to reduce it to Id. a
gallon when a local maker comes
mto the field, and keep it at that till the local in-
dustry is quite dead.
It is now pretty openly confessed by George
Reid’s former followers that in backing Fisher
when he proceeded against Deakin the party made
a shocking blunder. Had it treated the matter as
a family quarrel and declined to take sides, the
motion would have split Labor and Liberalism
asunder, and in the scrum Dudley would probably
have had to send for George. But George’s im-
patience to flatten Deakin over-ruled suggestions
to that effect and put Fisher in the apparent posi-
tion of the leader of an overwhelming party—so
big a party that Dudley had to send for him. One
of the results is that George has lost his leader-
ship as well as his chance of the Premiership.
EXTINCT.
South Australia’s Government Statist
announces with pride that the State has reached
the 400,000 population-mark, having picked up
the last thousand during the third quarter of this
year; but it has to count in the 3500 of the Nor-
thern Territory to make up the figure. S.A.
“ proper” has 210,000 males to 186,000 females.
Anti-Sosh has broken out in a new form
in S. Aus., where it is now suggesting that it
would be a first-rate thing for the Government to
establish a small meat-canning factory in connec-
tion with the State Produce Export Dep6t. Anti-
Sosh’s biggest supporters are in the meat and
wool-growing business ; and, as the result of half-
a-dozen good seasons, the State’s flocks threaten
to get too big for safety, and part of the surplus
isn’t suitable for freezing. Therefore Anti-Sosh
suggests that the Government should provide
another bit of Socialism. This spectacle of Anti-
Sosh urging a partly-Labor Government to go
ahead faster, and supply the curse quicker, is very
touching ; but S. Aus. is getting so used to it that
it hardly notices the trifle nowadays.
Again the man in the Yic. Press Gallery
notices a smell coming up from below, and gives
his version of the cause :
Vic. Legislative Assembly had a pleasant little talk, the
other evening, concerning the £5B commission which
Adolphus Bent paid to Holy Joe Kirton, who has since
become once more an M.L.A., for the purchase of land for
workmen’s homes at Ballarat. H.J. seemingly went to
Adolphus, who said, “ Yes, my boy ; find me some land.”
Murray, who was Minister of Lands, went to Ballarat and
bought the block. Its municipal valuation was £3OO ;
Murray paid over £l4OO for it. Then Kirton apparently
saw Adolphus once more, and said, “What about com-
mission?” Adolphus apparently replied as before, “ Yes,
my boy.” So H. Joe,Kirton claimed £5B. Murray refused
to pay. Adoiphus, unknown to Murray', gave the cash out
of the “ Treasurer’s advance.” In Parliament last week
these three began to fight the matter out. Kirton
,claimed that according to Bent’s instructions he was
Government agent, and entitled to claim from the
Government. Murray said that he regarded Kirton as
agent for the vendors, “ and was justified in that belief,”
he added sweetly 7, “by Mr. Kirton’s extreme anxiety to
make the Government pay the full price asked by the
owner.” It was also pointed out that this was the only
case in which the Government paid commission on
land bought for closer settlement. So Adolphus and Joe
Kirton ceased explaining ; but Kirton put his hand on his
heart, declaring that his conduct was “ absolutely above
suspicion.” The Ballarat Labor Leagues intend to ask for
a lot more explanation yet. By the way 7, Joe Kirton is
now a supporter of Adolphus in Parliament.
“?"
AUSTRALIA: “I wonder how many more suns
will go down on me sittin’ here peaceful-like
without a navy?”
Labor Premier Price (S. Aus.) has just
succeeded in putting through another piece of
legislation which has been hanging fire ever since
1878—a Bill to establish abattoirs, etc., for Adelaide
and suburbs. Up to now Adelaides meat has
been killed in any old place ; in fact, it has been
frankly admitted that the city had 'the most
obsolete, dirty, and wasteful system south of the
line” The House of Fat nevertheless stood
steadily in the way of improvement, because
improvement meant “interfering with vested
interests”; but vested interests at last smelt very
loud, and sometimes could hardly be seen for
stale blood and deeayed entrails ; and at last
even the House of Fat gave way. I. dr. Lllery
the energetic town clerk of Adelaide, has put up
a fine fight for the reforfn ; and I rice s masterly
way of handling business did the rest.
The Senate’s rejection of the proposed
purchase of offices in London for the Australian
High Commissioner was probably caused by the
staggering price mentioned—some £200,000. The
amount was really moderate as London figures
go, for in Bull’s capital the figure demanded for
the surface of the earth would plate that surface
with gold about two inches thick. Still it looked
terrible enough. But the rejection of the pro-
posed purchase is no reason why the appointment
of a High Commissioner should not be proceeded
with. Australia requires such an official badly to
combat the Stinking Fish party in Bullopolis, and
even though cablegrams cost about 3s. a word, it
wouldn’t be much expense to wire T. A. Coghlan,
of N.S.W., an offer of the job. Coghlan has done
better service than all the rest of the State Agents
put together in combating the Stinking Fish
organisation, and he should hold the fort as well
as another.
BALLADE OF ASSEMBLIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Assembly sat this afternoon. — Newspaper Item.
Though Harry Vane his right impugn,
Though Haselrigg protest and shout ;
Though Wentworth cry, “ We are immune ! ”
domes Cromwell’s order : “ Have them out ! ”
Pell-mell in wild and noisy rout
They hurry by the grim platoon ;
The Rump’s sent to the right-about—
The Assembly sat this afternoon !
A sound as of the fierce typhoon
Swells from the myriads without;
The city shudders, women swoon,
And frantic citizens kiss or clout.
The Sovereign People who dare flout ?
They ask, and they shall have, the moon !
A king shall die, without a doubt—
The Assembly sat this afternoon !
The bore’s long, irritating croon —
The raucous bellow of the lout—
The banal jape of some buffoon
All hurt us like a verbal knout;
Ye gods ! that these, who always spout,
On coral-reefs we might maroon !
Or keep at home with mumps, or gout!—
The Assembly sat this afternoon.
Envoy.
Reporters, rising from each bout
With speakers foolish and jejune,
dry : “ Oysters, and a pint of stout !
The Assembty sat this afternoon ! ”
N.S.W.
O. O. CABOT.
THE RIGHT TO WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If the worst comes to the worst, I shall go out among
my own people, and take the responsibility for the advice
I’ll give them. The right to live means the right to work.
If the unemployed are not provided for under the law,
they cannot be asked to obey the law. The country must
be shocked out of its inaction.
—Keir Hardie, M.P. (England.)
“ The right to live is the right to work ”
Is a gospel true and sound,
From the prehistoric ages dim
Since the grey old world went round.
We seek no alms from a niggard hand,
Or the cares of labor shirk ;
But our starving thousands still demand
The primitive right to work.
Since man went forth with an axe of stone,
And woman cared her young,
The cave-men cursed at the shiftless drone,
And the drone to the woods was flung ;
Till he crawled him back from the eerie wild
Where a thousand terrors lurk,
And craved the right as a chidden child,
The right to live—and work.
The wine flows free in its amber light,
The wine that the rich men quaff,
And the soul of the street girl wings its flight
To a titled harlot’s laugh ;
Broken bodies and hearts forlorn
Go down in the river’s murk—
Then look ye well to a Crimson Morn,
And your people who cry for work !
n.s.w.
H. H.


Business Suits
for Country & Town. Wear.
Best Value
m
Australia
W
i#
P%
I
I
Vj
Write for Patterns
and
Sel f Measurement
Forms.
a
m
Cu t, Style &Finish,q/ High Standard.
BUCKLEYt'NUNN L™
ROURKE ST MELBOURNE.
Our
Suits
to
Measure
m
Ml!
V
Our
631-
Suits
to
Measure
The Two Biggest Suit Values in Australia.
All Garments made throughout on Our Own Premises.
FAULTLESS FASHION, FIT and FINISH.
Call and See our New Summer Fabrics, or write lor Patterns, mailed free with
Tape and Self-Measure Form on receipt of this Coupon.
Please send Free Patterns , etc., to
“ Bulletin,” 3/12/’OB.
Name...
Address
F. J. PALMER & Son
The Tailors you’ve heard of,
PITT and PARK
STREETS
SYDNEY
GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
m
Some Woman buys
for every homo
and rightly so, as she goes more thoroughly into the matter than a man. The latter,
especially if he is a busy man, is inclined to take very little trouble, but the woman is
different—she Wivits to know the why and wherefore of everything; so that it is good policy
for the woman to do the buying. A gUtnce at our daily batch of country letters, or a glance
into our establishment, amply proves this, and at the same time proves that btewa rt
Dawson’s has the confidence of a big percentage of the womenfolk of New South Wales.
We attend to their wants by mail or in person promptly and carefully, and deliver all their
orders free of charge. We will be glad to post our Christmas Budget of Gifts on receipt
of a post-card.
H3Bl2—9ct. Gold Heavy Twist Bangle, Set Diamond
and Rubies, £4/10/-
Hl723—Pearl Set 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch. Beal Coral
Pear Drop, £l/7/6.
G633s—Twin Heart and Pearl Set
Lily of the Valley Brooch, £l/2/6
H 892- 15ct. Gold Pearl and Olivine Bangle, £6.
D 2891—2 Diamonds,
1 Ruby or Sapphire,
18ct. Ringr, £5/10/=
All Diamonds,
£6/10/=
H7OB0 —15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Spray Brooch, £4/10/=
D 2590 —18ct. Gold
Ring, 1 Sapphire or
Ruby, 2 Diamonds,
£6/10/-
The Favorite Curb Chain for Men.
Double Silver, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Double 9ct. Gold, 60/-, 70/-, 90/-, £5/5/=
Double 15ct. Gold, £5/5/-, £6/10/-, £B/10/
HS6OB-
- Top Thistle Glove Hook, Solid Silver, 1/6.
HB5O8 —The Favorite Scent Spray —no
Rubber to Perish. Silver-Mounted
Crystal, 4 inches, £l.
Other sizes, 15/6, 25/-
G7o4l—Solid Silver
Hat Pin Stand, no
Pins, 15/6.
G9394—Finest; Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Leaf
Brooch, £3/10/-
Tobacco Pouches, with Silver Shield,
4/6, 5/=, 6/6, 7/6.
Hl44l—Silver-plated Stud Box, 4/=
â
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd
iY*r


From the cool countries of the Northern
Hemisphere many good suggestions come our
way; the last which has reached us has on trial
proved to be a particularly pleasant drink for a
hot day, and that is “ Peter F. Heering’s ” Cherry
Brandy, with iced water, or, if time permits, and
we can afford the luxury, take it “frappe,” i.e.,
with crushed ice and drank through a straw,
reminding one of the sherry cobbler, but better.
We learn from continental papers that Mr. P. F.
Heering has once more scored a success, as at the
International Exhibition, lately held in Copen-
hagen, his Cherry Brandy took a Gold Medal
Award.*
ã
THE GREAT FABRIC
that Rivals Silk.
Specially adapted for BLOUSES, SLIPS, PETTICOATS,
CHILDREN’S DRESSES, SKIRT and BODICE LININGS,
CUSHION COVERS, etc.
BLACKS ABSOLUTELY FAST.
“Silvasheen, the best lining’—it lasts where Silk does
not, and has all the Sheen of a Silk.”
Obtained Grand Prix Paris Exhibition, 1900.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR IT.-*®
The trying heat of the Australian climate, with its
vagaries of wind and suit, makes undue calls upon the
complexion that even the most robust skin cannot unaided
withstand. To those who for pleasure or profit must bear
the heat and burden of day, and to those whose skins are
exposed to all weathers, Valaze will prove a veritable
boon. Valaze eliminates every trace of freckles, tan and
sunburn, and creates perfect skin beauty. 3s. 6d., 6s. 6d.,
and 6d. postage. Another wonderful specific is the
Novena Sunproof Creme, which prevents, as Valaze re-
moves, freckles, sunburn, tan and sallowness, 2s. and
3s. 6d. Send for the new Valaze book, 3d., or free with
order. All chemists, or direct from H. Rubinstein and
Co., Valaze Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne.* [2
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
I’ll give you a tip about
making tea worth taking note
of. When you intend to make
tea, empty your kettle, and
fil 1 i t wi th fresh water —water
that has been boiled before
becomes hard, and hard water
doesn’t make good tea—you
didn’t know that before,
did you?
If you’ve never used
Robur, you ought to commence
at once—you may as well
be drinking pure good tea
as any other, especially when
you can get it without paying
any more for it.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 1,190 S.
My Dear Arini,—
T° help fill up the gap made by “nothing
doing in Sydney, here’s a little thing of my own :
The Tragedy of the Broken Heart and the
Wrong Stockings.
Time : Two o’clock in the afternoon a year ago.
Black : The dining hall of a grand hotel.
Dramatic Persons : The Man Who Loves the Girl The
Girl Who Loves the Man, The Smart Grass Widow
the Man’s Man Friend.
The Man Friend (helping himself to salad): There’s the
girl of .your heart over there. See the fourth table
beyond the lady with the pint of cherries and the black
hawk on her hat.
The Man Who Loves the Girl (after a pause for loca-
tion). \es, I see. Who’s that with her ?
The Friend : Don’t know from the back view. What
eiahorate hairdressing—a labyrinth of eels !
Ihe Girl looks up and scans the dining-room, her
glance travelling until it is captured by the gaze of the
Man lying in wait for it. She smiles radiantly, picks up
a lettuce leaf and waves it at him. 1 p
His Friend: I’d give something to be still capable, as
you are, of hanging out the red flag. It’s a wonderful aid
to a man with a maid. Makes her imagine you have
lived unspotted from the world. J
The Man: It’s my beastly Saxon coloring that’s to
blame. I say, don’t rush the waiter. I don’t want to get
down to nuts before She is ready to come out.
His Friend : Right. In that case I will give you an
imitation of a corpulent caterpillar eating a grill. Have
you and the lady come to an understanding yet’
Ihe Man : No. I’m going to put the “ Will you?” pro-
position before her this afternoon or evening.
His Friend: Ah, there’s the elaborate head of eels
giving us a front view. Your Girl told her you were here
and she s sizing you up. ’
The Grass Widow and the Man look at each other for a
tew seconds as if recalling identities ; then the lady nods
and smiles. The Man puts down his knife and fork, and
leans back.
His Friend : Ah-a ! You know her 1
The Man : I used to- a little.
His Friend : But she knows y r ou a lot.
The Man : Yes, and she's telling some of it now. Look
wild oats * orwarc * t 0 a f>°°d grip on my bunch of
His Friend : Even the eels on the back of her head
seem to be galvanised into wriggles 1 But she may not be
talking against you.
Ihe Man: O, I know her—well enough for that.
Besides, look at the Girl’s face. It has hardened . . . now
she looks surprised . . . notice that she doesn’t glance this
way any more. .. . My cake’s dough ! Damn her !
His J'riend : Which her?
, ? HE You Jf »°w. The one with the snakes for
hair. The Grass Widow.
IDs Friend : Only grass. I’m sorry she’s only at grass,
or she s very pretty. But she’s not strychnine on your
food, old chap. Order something else.
J ? AN : No. You may order me a small whisky and
111 drink myself to death.
The Grass Widow (talking eagerly to Girl): Whv
dear, I didn’t know you knew him ; I didn’t know he was
in Australia. Yes, we met in Pretoria—before the war.
He had mines and was immensely popular. A better
utterly spoi!t, Ved ’ h ® WaS given ever Y chance to be
The Girl (listening intently, frowns) : Spoilt! What
do you mean (
Grass Widow : By women.
The Girl (disgustedly): O, he set up to be a lady-killer ?
Grass Widow: Well, darling, he didn’t exactly “set
effect be ° ne ‘ He neVer hun S ollt a brass P late t 0 that
The Girl : But he was one all the same. Eh ?
Grass Widow : Now, Pet, if women will lay their heads
unasked, on the block, can you blame the “killer” with
the nice sharp axe ?
The Girl (crossly): O, stop 1 That kind of man is a
bounder. The worst kind of bounder.
Grass Widow : Well, this man is no bounder.
The Girl : Did—did he ever try to “kill” vou? You
are very pretty, you know.
Grass Widow : Yes, dearest, I do know ; but he never
even tried to wound me. For one thing, I gave his «-ood
taste a shock the very first time we met. He’s fright-
* ai critical about women’s dress, you know.
Ihe Girl (anxiously): Yes, I’ve discovered that. Go on
Grass W idow : Don’t look his way. I can feel his eves
through my five guineas’ worth of curls. Well, the first
tune we met I was wearing white stockings with black
shoes and a black frock. I had been playing tennis,
dressed in all white, and when I rushed home with only
five minutes in which to get into afternoon clothes and
'; le^‘b y husband, I forgot to change the white stockings.
And they weren t silk, and they had grass stains on them.
Ihe Girl : He may not have noticed.
Grass Widow : He notices everything. I’m sure his
eyes are human magnifying glasses. That awful day he
he ped me in and out of my mail-cart. So how could he
help but notice? What’s the matter, dear, you look
worried. ’ J
The Girl: I am worried. (She leans forward and
speaks rapidly for some minutes as if making explanation )
Grass Widow (sympathetically) : Now, do just as I tell
you and \ve can get out without his having a clear view
of anything but your head and shoulders. We’ll go down
and speak to those people at that table with the waratahs
on it. We’ll have to dodge amongst the tables to do it
but it will bring us close to the door and won’t look a
remarkable way of getting out.
The Girl . I don t want him to think lam avoiding him
Grass Widow : He won’t think. Before he has time to
think we’ll be back from my room and getting our coffee
He’ll be just about ordering his, and biting the top off
his cigar. r
The circuitous retreat is skilfully effected.
The Man : No, thanks. I won’t wait for coffee. No
no liqueur. Yes, I’ll take the smoke with me. I must see
about my berth for Wednesday, the steamer’s pretty full
I hear. Good-bye. I’ll drop you a line from Capetown!
(Steps into lift.)
A year later. Grass Widow seated alone, near after-
noon tea table in Winter Garden of hotel. There are six
cups on the tray. Enter a woman friend with a man
whom she introduces to Grass Widow. They chat awhile
Grass Widow : How awfully flattering of you to remem!
her me ! And what became of the nice man you had at
lunch with you that day? He was an old acquaintance
of mine from the Pretorian times.
His Friend : He went back two days later. (Looking
at her keenly) He was fond of a girl here, in Sydney
and intended to have told her so that very day
Grass Widow : What stopped him ?
His Friend : He got the idea that someone had poisoned
her mind against him.
Grass Widow :Be quite honest—he thought 2 had ?
His Friend : Yes.
Grass Widow : In Heaven’s name, why?
His Friend : The girl’s demeanor seemed to change
after you had talked with her. And when you left the
dining-room you were at some trouble to do it without
coming down the aisle and passing our table. You osten-
tatiously avoided us.
The Grass Widow' says “Oh " several times, her eyes
sparkling, her face scarlet. She suddenly grasps the tea-
pot and pours out tea furiously, filling the six cups and
deluging the tray. She calls the waiter and sends the
whole tea outfit away, then sheds exactly two tears one
out of either eye, and absorbs them into a morsel of fine
lace.
His Friend (very gently): I’m sorry. Were we—was it
all a mistake on his part?
Grass Widow : Men are such fools ! That girl’s heart
is broken. I hope his will be some day. (Addressing a
passmg waiter) Aren’t we to have any tea this afternoon?
His Friend : Then you didn’t say
Grass Widow: I said nothing but good of him.
And we left the dining-room that round-about way
because the Girl was wearing tan stockings with black
snoes. She d been on the beach and got her feet soaked,
and a iriend picnicking there had given her dry things.
Her short skirts showed the horror, but she didn’t care
who saw so long as he didn’t. Unfortunately I’d been
telling her how fastidious he was on such matters. She
came to my room, put on the proper ones, and hurried
back. You were gone-both of you. And her heart is
broken. (Sheds two more tears and blinks them dry )
His Friend (eagerly): It is not too late. He has not
married.
Grass Widow : It is too late. She has.
The Norland Institute, that intensely smart
creche (if, indeed, a thing like a creche, which
mea_ns “manger,” can be called smart), whose
headquarters are in Nelson-street, Woollahra, has
received an advertisement of some size, and con-
sequently is putting another frill on its cap, and an
extra hemstitch to its pinny. Two of its students,
now in their last term, have been engaged by a
brace of Governors’ wives (Lady Plunket, of
Maoriland, and Lady Edeline Strickland, of Tas-
mania) to tend their offspring. The Rose-du-
Barry uniformed young women enter upon their
duties early next year.
Lord Chelmsford, the potentate of Paw-Paw
land, has come in for a fortune. By the tragic
fate of his unmarried kinswoman, Lady Violet
Molyneux, Death has hoisted the anchor which
moored her estate, and it drifts the Governor’s
way Lady V. was a great traveller and Alpine
climber. While standing on the edge of a cliff at
Lynton (in the south of England) adjusting her
camera, she mismanaged to fall over and was killed.
The most rung-up, chased, queried and harried
man in Sydney to-day is U.S. Consul Bray. And
the cause of the sorties in his direction is the
arrival of the yacht Coronet. The poor man knows
nothing more than the owner and the captain
chose to tell him, and they didn’t tell him enough
to make him split down the back with the pressure
of suppressed information. They didn’t even ask
him to come on board and have a glass of iced water.
The owner’s wife and captain’s wife and their re-
spective offspring are on board, and they must be
having an exhilarating time ! Sydney has
watched the yacht carefully, and says that if
either of the ladies or any of the children have
come ashore, it must have*been in a submarine.
All the men—sailors and potentates included—
wear long, black, frock-kind of coats. The
Coronet is certainly a most unsociable sort of'
ornament.
The marriage-tie of Mrs. Cunliffe-Owen, an
Englishwoman who was much admired in these
parts a year ago, was fractured in London a few
weeks ago, without any assistance from Socialism.
Mr. Hugo von Reitzenstein Cunliffe-Owen, the
lady s husband, accused her, in the presence of
Divorce and Admiralty Judge Bargrave Deane,
of frivolling aboard a P. and O. liner. Frivolity
was also alleged at Colombo, which is the world’s
headquarters for that kind of thing. The happen-
ing serves to revive once more the never-dying
dispute as to whether a trip on an ocean-going
steamer makes or unmakes more marriages. The
cleric holds to the former theory, the divorce
official to the latter. The average member of the
public submits the problem to the arbitrament of
the tossed dime.
The Cold Land papers report the revival of the
“suivez-moi” in an aggravated form. The
“suivez-moi” (which, in the language of the Gaul,
signifies “Chase me”) is a length of tulle which
is attached to the hat, shoulder or arm of the
mode-maniac, and suffered to dangle irrespbnsibly
behind. It was worn here tentatively, a few
years back, and then suffered to languish. The
fact that the majority of those who sported it
were mothers of 15 and 16-year-old babies handi-
capped it considerably. The desire for the Chase
fades from the heart of man when the would-be
quarry attains the stage of owning 15-year-old
babies. On a maiden in the first flush of youth
the purposeless arrangement looks rather arch
and pleasing. The more advanced of the Paris
fashionables are wearing trailers 4ft. long.
Messrs. Leslie Walford and Lawson, two
silver points of this city, have been spoken in
Paris by since-returned Australians. The signals
they hoisted in reply to the friendly vessels set
forth that they were appreciating the picture
galleries and museums of the city that Hen. IV.
said was well worth a mass, and which Hen. 111.
wanted to destroy and utterly obliterate. Mr.
Lawson visits the Tower, St. Paul’s, Madame
Tussaud’s and other places of public interest with
his intended bride, Mrs. Arnott. The happy
couple revel in these simple joys.
Mrs. .Jack London, a white-faced, fair-haired,
nervously alert little woman, has quarters in a
boarding-house or ham-and-egg fortress at North
Sydney, next door to the private hospital in
which her husband lies waiting to be well enough
to do some more travelling in the bounding
Snark. He will most likely take on a lecturing
tour, under the management of a Sydney man.
The Hordern damsel who was married on the
cradle of the deep between Colombo and Perth
belongs to the Edward branch of the house of
Hordern. She is a sister of Mrs. Jack Sheridan,
of Sydney, and is related in a cousinly way to the
Sam Horderns.
Professor Ernest Rutherford, who has an ex-
tremely high stool at the Manchester University
and is just announced as getting the Nobel prize
for chemistry, accumulated wads and wads of
academic paper in his native Maoriland. In ’94
he went to Cambridge as an exhibitioner, and
while there Prof. Cox lured him to the
McGill Uni. While still at Cambridge he inves-
tigated the magnetic detector, which has since
been employed in transmitting wireless messages
across the Atlantic. His published papers on
discoveries connected with the radio-active sub-
stances and their emanations would make your
grey matter ache if you read them. His reputa-
tion as an authority on radium is second only to
that of the Curies—its discoverers. Prof. Ruther-
ford is but 36 years young.
The latest thing in surf costumes was sprung
on a start ed beach at Bondi last week. Two
well-nourished mermaids, with the legs of god-
desses, strolled down to the brink clad in ordinary
tight-fitting costumes as far as—well, the usual
length. But instead of plain undraped leg below
this, they wore a lattice of blue ribbon, starting
in an ornate garter and finishing in sky blue shoes,
liumors were circulated that the ladies were the
latest from Paris, but subsequently, when they
. earc * converse in the ordinary patois of
1 addington, the spectators recovered somewhat
and drew so close to the water’s edge that an in-
coming wave splashed right over their ankles
before they had time to jump back.
Cyril Monk, who draws a masterly bow
across a valuable fiddle, and extracts the sounds
that reach the heart, will hold his first annual
pupils’ concert on Friday next at the Y.M.C.A.
Hall.
No sensible wife will take her husband to “ The
Taming of the Shrew.” The things he dare not
s a y by the motion of his own jaw Shakspeare
says for him, and he sits in superior complacence,
giving side glances at his Kate and hoping that
she is profiting by the sermon against women’s
rights. Some of the audiences gravely debate the'
question whether the Shrew’s temper could be
tamed by the means Petruchio employs. In the
first part of Scene 1., Act 11., which is omitted in
the Anglin play, Katharine is “discovered”
with Bianca, the latter with her hands tied
and enduring sundry cuffs from the Shrew.
Her temper was not of the kind that could
be cured suddenly. You take it from me,
Petruchio had to wallop his Katharine often
and hard aftpr she made that famous speech
to the other wives, beginning “Fie, fie, unknit
that threatening, unkind brow.”
Miss Anglin, consummate artist that she is,
assumes the air and bearing of an ingenue when
she makes her last appearance as the now sweet-
tempered wife. In her white, waistless frock and
blue necklace she skips in looking 17, and con-
siderably younger than her younger sister. The
suggestion is that a domineering manner makes a
young woman seem older than her years. The
Anglin is an artist at posing herself as a
priceless work of art in the background, while
some one else holds the stage. After she has thrown
the blue hat of her husband’s friend out of the
window, she sits down, her arm on the sill, and
makes a beautiful portrait study. Again, when
asleep from exhaustion on a rock in a country
road (this piece of scenery is beautifully painted),
she makes a wholly eye-satisfying picture against
a charming sunlit background.
What extra-gilded youths they seem, those gen-
tlemen of Verona and Pisa and Padua ! The
dress must have been an incentive to “ ruffling it
bravely ” in public places. And the term “ gilded
youth ” is a much closer fit on the Lucentio in the
Anglin production than on Prince Danilo when he
ambles into Maxim’s (with his mouth open) in the
last act of “The Merry Widow.”
Most of ushadquiteforgotten that theexpression
“Your cake is dough’’was of Shakspearian origin
until one of the men in “The Taming of the
Shrew” reminded us by saying “Our cake is
dough on both, sides.” Henceforth, let us
use the alleged “slang” secure in the knowledge
that we are up against a classic phrase.
Miss Anglin has chosen for her cage this visit
Dr. Hinder’s house at Rose Bay. The long ladder
of steps uj) to the humpy is warranted to keep the
climber thin. The Kolker brace are staying with
some American friends named Hughes, at Point
Piper.
Miss Ola Humphrey will alight upon this
capital in a few days for the purpose of rehearsing
her rdles in her new job. “The Thief,” “Zira,”
“Twelfth Night” and “The Taming of the
Shrew” will be the repertoire of the co., just
as with the Anglin co. So far as is known at
present, the constitution of the co. will remain as
it is, save that Miss Ola J. takes the place of
Miss A.
The chemical store fire is about the most un-
pleasant thing that comes in the way of the gal-
lant firemen, for chemicals have nine and ninety
different ways of burning, and all of them are
upleasant and dangerous. The Sydney brigade
was called out in a hurry last week to Balmain to
cast liquid on a burning building stuffed full of
fizzling tonics and flaming ointments, all of which
were performing viciously. Occasionally a corn-
cure or a hair developer would go off with a bang
and hurl things at the sky ; at other times the
complexion powder made ostrich feathers of flame
and wore them for a brief instant amid clouds of
thick, green smoke. The firemen held the
hydrants with one hand and (by reaspn of the
burning skin food) their noses with the other, and
hosed valiantly until the cough mixture had done
its worst and the incinerated nail-brush
had exhausted its fury. Then they drove
wearily back with many strange remnants
wreathed round their helmets. You never know
what entertaining or horrifying results you
can get with an everyday medicine or
foodstuff until you burn it. I once stood afar off
and watched a ship flaming at a wharf. Almost
every minute a dull boom, deep in the hold,
seemed to threaten destruction, and the alarmed
mob stood at a great distance and wondered how
many people would be slain “if all the powder
went off at once.” Yet next morning the papers
only made lamentation over three hundred cases
of tinned meat destroyed by fire in the forehold of
the Impertinent Clara. All that wonderful thrill
arose through the explosion of the corned beef.
The coming prize-fight was in the mind of a
Sydney man when he planned a dinner that was
eaten at the Australia last week. On the end of
the dish which carried the ten doddering fowls,
aged five weeks —one dodderer for each
guest—was a raised platform of toast, and on
this, in addition to some other attractions, were
the figures of two boxers engaged in furious con-
flict. The images were fashioned entirely of the
joints and appurtenances of a crayfish. The
chickens down in the dish represented the audience.
“ Mario,” from Brisbane :
A young officer much given to motoring is engaged to
a ministering angel.
It is alleged that in the arrangement of the opening of
the ladies’ rowing shed a rather serious blunder was com-
mitted. After inviting Mrs. Mayoress Buchanan to
formally turn the key the committee-women seem to
have forgotten her existence (and this despite the fact of
her being' their president), and requested her Ex. to do
the deed. Further, they neglected to notify the Mayoress
of the time and date, so that when the vice-regal lady,
attended by the affable Verney, arrived on the scene,
there was no president to receive her, and Mrs. L. G.
Corrie had to fill the vacancy. Now everyone is busy
explaining things away, but as the ambassador says in
‘The Merry Widow,” “Omission is fact; explanation is
mostly fiction.”
There was a rush of matrimony on Wednesday.
Eighteen rash young couples said “ I will ” at St. Stephen’s,
andfiveotherpairsatSt. Andrew’s(Anglican). Amongthem
were the pretty daughter of Campbell, M.L.C., and one
Forster, who manages the B. N.S.W. at Clifton. Every-
where you turned there were broughams, hansoms and
mere four-wheelers full of brides. There was even a half-
Jewish wedding in the vestry of St. Luke’s. Verity, the
fat years are upon us.
Apropos, at the annual meeting of the local girls’
Friendly Society this week, the secretary announced a
loss of five members during the year by marriage.
Whereupon Lady Chelmsford suggested that it was quite
time they were written to and asked to join the Mothers’
Union.
On Wednesday afternoon the Chelmsford dame made
her final effort on behalf of the pure-milk crusade, and
laid her views before a curiously assorted gathering at
Government House. The committee, also curiously
assorted, proposes to hire quarters and sign a
rigid contract with an allegedly honest dairy-
man possessed of a herd of high-minded kine.
Then it will examine and Pasteurise the finished effort of
the cow, and deal it out in suitable quantity and quality
to carefully weighed and examined infants. As her
Chelmship put it, “We hear too much about Australia
for the Australian, and too little about the Australian for
Australia.”
The weak spot in the scheme is the idea of making it a
charitable concern, and going a-begging for it, and
a-wearing out of the hat. It’s a national movement, and
the paltry £3OO a year required for its upkeep ought to
come out of the public affluence. It costs the State that
amount to bury the babies that die of bad feeding.
The Slade family will make a flitting in March next for
the Cold Land, where the discontented Mary Anns come
from. This will allow the house-daughter to have a look
round at the European goods before making any definite
selection locally.' Another flitter Fogwards will be Mrs.
Dakin, chief of the teaching staff at the local Girls’
Grammar School.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


RELIABLE SPORTS GOODS FOR PRESENTS.
8.G.1. RELOADING and CLEANING
TOOLS.
8.G.1. Reloading and Cleaning Sets, No. 12 gauge, combination,
3s. lid. set ; postage, N.S.W., Is., inter-State, Is. Bd.
8.G.1. Cleaning Rods, 3 joints, including scratch brush, swab, an
pull through, Is. 9d. set, postage 4d. extra.
WINCHESTER FACTORY LOADED
N EW RIVAL
Winchester New Rival Cartridges, black, 12
3 drams powder, 7s. 100.
Ballistlte Nobel’s Cartridges, parvo, 12 gauge,
powder, 12s. per 100.
Ballistlte Nobel’s Cartridges, special, 12 gauge,
powder, 13s. per 100.
Ballistlte Nobel’s Cartridges, pigeon, 12 gauge,
powder, 14s. per 100.
The Leige Arms Co.’s 12-Gauge
Double-Barrel Breech-Load-
Ing Gun, 30in. best steel barrels,
left full choke, right modify,
chambered for 2|in. cartridges,
walnut stock, half pistol grip,
very highly finished. Special
price, £5 10s.
gauge, 2iin. cases,
2in. cases, 24 grains
2Jin. cases, 27 grains
2fin. cases, 31 grains
GRACE BROS, have specially selected the
articles listed in this advertisement to
maintain the “high quality” standard
set up in the Sports Goods Departments,
and though the prices may lead you to think the
quality is not there, GRACE BROS, give their
guarantee as to the reliability of each article.
GRACE BROS, stand behind each article sold
with their guarantee of quality, and therefore
make it easy for our Customers to secure a
thoroughly reliable gun or rifle at the lowest
possible price.
These Guns make excellent Christmas
Presents for men in all ranks of life, and as a
present from Man to Man—cannot be excelled.
Guns & Ammunition
m
JUI —The Remington Arms Co.’s 12-Qauge Hammerless Double-
Barrel Breech-Loading Gun, 30in., steel barrels, right cylinder,
left choke, English walnut stock, half pistol grip, rubber butt plate,
checkered grip, and fore-end, case hardened frame and mountings,
Purdv fore-end snap, flat matted rib, automatic safety, top lever,
triple lock action, stock 2fin. drop, regular length of stock 14m.,
with automatic ejector, proved for mtro powders, packed in card-
board box. Price, £7 7s.
RIFLE CARTRIDGES.
JU3—Winchester , rim fire, 22 calibre, smokeless and .^easeles 9
cal, Is. Id. per 100 ; short, Is. sd. per 100 , long-, Is. 7d. per iuu.
F Doumoulin and Co.’s 12-Gauge Double-Barrel Breech-Loading
Gun, 30in. twist barrels, chambered for 2Jm. cases, right cylinder,
left fall choke, rebounding hammers, solid strikers, solid bar, front,
action, checkered fore-end and hand stock, half pistol grip, weighing
about 71b. Special price £3 15s.
w Cashmore’s 12-Gauge Double-Barrel Breech-Loading Gun,
’top lever, back action, chambered for 2fin. cases, 30in. best steel
barrels solid strikers, rebounding hammers, proved for smokeless
powders, weight about 7ilb., half pistol grip, walnut stock, extension
rib, with doll’s head. Special price £4 10s.
LOADED WITH
[l]
S
JU2—Eley’s Universal Cartridges, black, 12 gauge, 2iin. cases,
3 drams powder, 6s. 6d. 100.
Eley’s E.B. Nltro Cartridges, amberite, 12 gauge, 2Jin. cases, 42 grains
powder, 10s. 6d. per 100.
Eley’s Special Cartridges, green cases, 410 bore, black powder, 6s. 6d.
per 100. *
Eley’s E.B. Cartridges, smokeless, 12 gauge, 2Jin. cases, 42 grains
powder, 9s. 6d. per 100.
Mullerite Cartridges, smokeless, 12 gauge, 2|in. cases, 48 grains
powder, 13s. 6d. per 100.
Mullerite Cartridges, smokeless, 12 gauge, 2Jin. cases, 42 grains
powder, 12s. 6d. per 100.
100 Cartridges, 12 gauge, weight packed 141 b.
Ask for our Christmas List of SPORTING
GOODS, GOLF GOODS, TENNIS GOODS,
CRICKET GOODS. We are Specialists in ALL
CLASSES OF SPORTING REQUISITES.
JU4.
W. Cashmore’s Hammerless 12-Gauge Double-Barrel Breech-
Loading Gun, 30in. best steel barrels, snap fore-end, solid bar
action, treble wedge bolt, checkered fore-end and stock, half-pistol
grip, English walnut stock, left and right choke, bend in stock,
2fin., very highly finished; £l3 10s.
W Cashmore’s 12-Gauge Double-Barrel Breech-Loading Gun,
beftsteelbarrelsf SOimV, solid bar action, right cylinder left choke,
checkered fore-end, pistol walnut stock, Deeley edge fore-end, ex-
tension rib, weight 71b. ; £5 7s. od. .
Postage : N.S.W., 2s. 6d. ; inter-State, 4s. Bd. each,
nniimmilln and Co.’s 12-Gauge Double-Barrel Breech-
Loading Gun, 30in. best steel twist barrels, solid bar, front action,
sohd strikers Abounding hammers, chambered for 2fin. cases, right
modify left full choke, extension rib, fitted with Greener s Patent
snaD fore-end, half pistol, hand stock, . very highly
finished and engraved, vulcanite heel plate. Special price, £6 10s.
F.
ill WIN
CHESTER
JUS-Winchester Cartridges, 1892 Model 25.20 calibre ss.9d.per
100 ; 32 calibre, ss. 9d. per 100 ; 38 calibre, 6s. lid. per
calibre, 6s. 'lid. per 100.
Winchester, rim fire, 22 calibre, black, short, * B -^.I OO ’ 1 g ’
Is. sd. 100; long rifle, Is. 6d. 100 ; extra long, 2s. 3d. 100.
Dominion, rim fire, 22 calibre, conical, lid. 100.
Revolver Bullets, 320 calibre, 2s. 6d. 100 ; 380 calibre, 3s. 100 , 450
; calibre, ss. 100.
Bulleted Caps, No. 1, Bd. 100 ; No. 2, Is. 6d. 100; No. 3, 2 s. 3d - 10 °-
Shotted Caps, No. 1, Is. Bd. 100 ; No. 2, 2 s. 6d. 100 ; No. 3, 3 s. 3d. 100-
These Goods will all stand “ The
Reliability Test,”and it is safe to shoot
with any of GRACE BROS.’ GUNS.
SPSS
zm
1116-1 Hollis and Son’s 12-Gauge Double-Barrel Breech-
J Loading Gun, 30in. twist barrels, solid bar front action, top lever
chambered for 2fin. cases, solid strikers, rebounding hammers, right
cylinder, left choke, Greener’s patent cross bolt, snap fore-end,
weight about 71b. Special price, £6 7s. 6d.
Rifles. Revolvers,
Winchester Primed Shells, 25.20 calibre, 3s. 3d. 100; 32 calibre, 3s.
3d. 100 ; 38 calibre, 3s. 6d. 100 ; 44 calibre, 3s. 6d. 100.
Winchester Primers. No. 1, ss. 6d. 1000 ; No. 2, ss. 6d. 1000.
Eley’s Percussion Caps, for B loading cartridges, 6d. 100.
Musket Caps, flanged, sd. box 100.
Eley’s Percussion Caps, for muzzle-loading guns, 6d. 100.
ä
1117 Winchester 1904 Model Single Shot Rifle 22 calibre, rim fire,
J a ,linsrable rear si"ht, takes 22 short, long, or long rifle cartridges,
nin round barrel? and very similar to 1902 Model bead front sight,
plain trigger, bolt action, adjustable rear sight, balanced for accu-
rate shooting, weight about 41b. Price, 245. ; postage, N.S.W.
Is. 9d.. inter-State 3s. 2d.
For the sake of your own personal
safety, BUY GUNS THAT WILL STAND
THE RELIABILITY TEST.
,T * v f
JUB— The “ New Century ” Single Shot Rifle, designed for 22 calibre
rim fire, short, long, or long rifle Cartridge; it is of the take-down
principle, and can be taken apart easily and quickly by unscrewing
the thumb-screw located underneath the forearm ; the action used
on this rifle is of the safety type, and is exceedingly simple, consist-
ing of very few parts ; the barrel is round, 18in. long, with V sight;
weight, 2jlb. Price, its, ; postage, N.S.W. Is: 3d.,inter-State 2s. 2d.
extra.
á
JlJO— Winchester 1892 Model, 25, 20, or 32 calibre, half magazine,
octagon barrel, take seven cartridges in magazine, bottom lever
Price 555. each. Weight 71b. Postage, N.S.W. 2s. 6d., inter-State
4s. Bd.
å
line—Winchester 1902 Model Single Shot Rifle, 22 calibre
JU1 22 short rifle cartridges, scroll tngger guard, peep or V
weight 2|lb. Price, 17s. 6d. ; postage, N.S.W. Is. dd.,
State 2s. 2d.
, takes
' sight,
inter-
Winchester 1906 Model Repeating Rifle, takes 22 calibre short
only, rim Are, 24in. round barrel plain trigger guard straight grip,
slide action, Weight about 61b. Price, 405. ; postage, N.S.W. 2s. 6d.,
inter-State 4s. 2d.
The “ Savage ” Repeating Rifle, takes 22 calibre, short long, or long
rifle cartridges, rim fire ; it has an octagon barrel, with grip slide
action, and can be taken apart in a few seconds ; weight sllb loaded
similar to military rifle. Price, 605.; postage, N.S.W. 25., inter-
state 3s. Bd.
Stevens’ Repeating Rifle, 22 calibre, rim fire, takes 22 short, 22 long,
22 long rifle cartridges, suitable round barrel, 24in., ladder and bead
sights, straight grip, takes apart easily magazine takes 11-22 long
rifle cartridges, weight 61b. Price, 475. 6d. ; postage, N.S.W.
2s. 3d. ; inter-State, 4s. 2d.
The “ Baby ” Marlin 22 Calibre Repeating Rifle, takes 22 calibre
short cartridges, but can be made to take both long . 1 0
cartridges by getting the extra carriers for same ; weight 41b. I rice.
475. 6d. ; postage, N.S.W. Is. 9d., inter-State 3s. 2d. N.B. Extra
carriers, 6s. 6d. each.
The Remington Arms Co.’s Single Shot Rifle, 22 calibre rim fire,
short, long, and long rifle, 22in. round blued steel barrel, with a peep
and V sight, weight about 3Jlb. Price, 15s. 6d.; postage, N.S.W.
Is. 6d., inter-State 2s. Bd.
Winchester Thumb Trigger Single Shot Rifle, 22 calibre, same
description and finish as 1902 Model, but, as the name indicates, the
trigger, which is located on the upper side of the grip near the bolt,
is operated by pressing down with thumb, weight about 2Jlb. Price,
13s. 6d.; postage, N.S.W. Is. 2d., inter-State 2s. 2d.
Stevens’ Maynard Junior, 22 calibre, rim fire, 22 short, 22 long rifle
cartridge, suitable, positive extractor, take-down action, weight
2Jlb. Price, 13s. 6d.; postage, N S.W. Is. 3d., inter-State 2s. 2d.
The “New Century,” with Winchester sliding sight for 300 yards,
weight 31b. Price, 13s. 6d.; postage, N.S.W. Is. 3d., inter-State
2s. 2d.
PISTOLS and REVOLVERS.
postage, N.S.W. 9d., inter-State Is.
Harrington and Richardson’s Young American, 22 calibre, 5 cham-
ber*™. barrel, nickel, central fire. Price, 12s. 6d. ; postage,
N.S.W. 9d., inter-State Is. 2d. Weight Boz.
“Pocket Pistol,” nickel-plated barrel, fires bulleted caps. Price,
2s. lOd. each. .
“ Bulldog ” Revolver, 320 calibre, central fire, double action, blued,
6 shots, weight lOoz. Price, Bs.; postage, N.S.W. 6d., inter-State Bd.
“ Bulldog ” Revolver, same as above, with safety, weight 14oz. Piice,
12s. 6d. each ; postage, N.S.W. 6d., inter-State Bd.
“Vest Pocket Revolver,” pearl handle, 5 chambers, nickel, 2in.
barrel, folding trigger, 320 calibre. Price, 275. 6d.; postage,
N.S.W. 6d., inter-State Bd. Weight B|oz.
The Model
Store,
GRACE, BROS.,
Broadway
Sydney.


NOURISH BABY
ON FALIERE’S
Phosphatine Food
The presence of phosphates scientifically
compounded and easily assimilated in
Faliere’s Food makes it the ideal food for
infants. This food makes bone, teeth
and tissue, and builds up a sturdy body,
full of energy and vitality. Sample tin
free from Joubert & Joubert, 552
Flinders Melbourne, or Claud
Healy, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FALIERE’S
Phosphatine Food
[2
D
-A
V-.
an
/ 3
-v;
Ensure
Satisfaction.
Mining
Goods
,are now used on all
the leading Mines on
account of their
Quality, Wear & Price
OUR Suction ]
Hoses, Rubber and
Balata Belting 1 ,
Packings and In-
sertions, Valve and
Sheet Rubber, etc.,
have no equal.
That’s why we are
now doing over 70%
of the Mining Rub-
• ber Goods Trade
of Australasia.
.'enoers and Samples Submitted.
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney
Adelaide. Perth.
Brisbane and
Chriitrburcia N.Z.
me
jR
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE
Gives Years of Hard
Service.
Does Not Kink or
Burst.
Specify “DUNLOP” Brand
if You Want the Best.
Obtainable all Leading; Stores.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Pert!?, Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.
KANDY
KOOLA
TEA
The best i* the country
side, i* faith.**
YOUR
EARLY
R
Sold by
all Grocers in Red, Blues, and Green Packets
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 30, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The exhausted and comatose committee of the
Women’s Exhibition was galvanised into life
again by a big meeting called together at Govern-
ment House by the Dudley lady. Lady North-
cote, who puffed the original idea into its first
flame and hammered the Exhibition into shape,
left a parting word to the effect that she hoped
the organisation would not collapse and forget its
own existence. Hence the meeting coo-eed to-
gether by the little Countess. It chanced on
Thursday afternoon. The weather fell about like
a smashed waterspout, but it would take more
than that to daunt the generals who had battled
through that fearsome committee time. They
turned up 200 strong, and Lady Dudley, flanked
by the imposing Madden lady and the Carmichael
dame, received the onslaught in the drawing-
room. The Dudley Countess speeched— she
speeched fluently and voluminously, with a budget
of notes to help her along the thorny path of
eloquence. She must have spent a vigil all the
night before with a dictionary, unless peradven-
ture she smote a secretary over the head with the
volume and left it to him. But the Dudley lady
is much of a blue-stocking, and is in the thick of
all the new-thought movement in Eogland, so
probably her speeches are all her own.
The presiding lady also asked the guests to
“ tell her all about it,” and the scarred warriors
of that long female war rose up and told her.
The indomitable Mrs. Frank Madden flashed her
eyes as her memory suggested more than she
speeched—of the triumphs of the culinary depart-
ment. The broken tempers and shattered
crockery and wrecked contracts of that stormy
time rose and waved phantom arms, but the out-
come was £lOOO profit made on the feeding
affairs. Mrs. Professor Peterson got on her feet
with soft speech, and elocuted on her experiences
of choir organising. She still has a choir—sadly
depleted, it must be said—but some rag of a choir.
Mrs. Deakin had the complete victory of the
creche to flaunt—those hundreds of squalling
babies that she herself devoted hours to the
nursing of. The creche was a success in that
Exhibition.
The Carmichael Governoress seems to have
imbibed some of her lord’s quiet humor. She
said that she had heard that even the gaining of
the woman’s franchise and the winning of the
Derby by a woman’s horse were directly owing to
the influence of the Women’s Exhibition. After
a long and purring afternoon the catmittee had
tea. That catmittee has never had so peaceful a
meeting in all its existence. Finally the Countess
asked anyone to write to her on things that
occurred to amyone. There was a mild chatter in
every direction, each pussy meowing about her
own department. The trouble with that com-
mittee always was that it worked in isolated
groups—each for its own division.
The Carmichael lady leads the womanly interes
in the coming Exhibition of Arts and Crafts
which is to be opened on December 2, and will
last a fortnight.
The Carmichael lady is a real dab with the
needle. She has that domestic virtue in the
degree that grandmama always says girls had in
her young days, and she is looking hard at the
stitches in Melbourne’s needlework. The “In-
stitute for the Advancement of Plain Needle-
work” had the sewing lady to tea t’other day,
and showed what it could do. This institute
owed its origin to a shocked Governoress—Lady
Loch of yore—who, in her wanderings round
various country and town shows, raised her
hands in horror at the big, reckless stitches in
the plain work. All the Australian youth-
ful energy seemed to find an outlet in
drawn thread and wild atrocities in shadow
work or creweled slippers. The horrified
lady sent to Fogtown and begged an extension-
branch helping hand from the P.N.W. Institute
there. An instructress, Miss Tegetmeier, answered
to the distressful cry, and was set to work training
teachers. These were drafted out to the public
schools, and the good work has been progressing
steadily. The original trainees have developed,
through a course of examination, into examiners.
Some two score examinations have eventuated
since then, and the Institute has now no reason
to shiver under the critical Carmichael eye.
Beatrice Miranda, the tall young sister of Lalla,
is doing all that her Melbourne friends predicted
for her on the opera stage in Britain. She is now
fairly established as the “star” lady of the Carl
Rosa co., and she has extended her repertoire
into Wagnerian works. Press notices of her
Elizabeth in “Tannhauser” are frankly eulo-
gistic. One critic says
She has youth, good looks, and a voice of bright and
musical timbre, sweet soprano tone, careful cultivation,
and considerable power... . Her singing is in every wav
delightful. J
Touching her performance as Nedda in “Pag-
liacci,” a Bristol paper says :
Miss Miranda presented a graceful and finished imper-
sonation, and her cultured vocalisation fulfilled every
requirement.
Reading which notices of the Australian artist’s
work with the most important of the touring
opera companies in Britain, one is reminded again
of how her farewell benefit appearance in Mel-
bourne was treated as a matter for mere patronis-
ing comment. She sang charmingly, and had an
exceptionally graceful and commanding presence.
She “filled the stage” as a prima donna, but she
was only a local singer who had never been
engaged for opera by a local manager, therefore
she got nc more credit for her achievement and
her striking possibilities than Melba got before
she -vent abroad to find fame.
The indefatigable Sisters Hyams, who teach
the juvenile limb to twirl and the toe to pirouette,
gave their annual carnival at St. Kilda Town
Hall on Tuesday night. Fond mothers, sisters,
and cousins, likewise aunts, packed the balconies
while precocious imps in fancy dress whirled in
heat and excitement far on into those hours
which no well-regulated baby should know
by sight. As well as incidental padding,
there were 30 full-fledged and gorgeous
items—dances in immature from comic opera,
and languorous skirt dances with long French
™mes ogled through by budding ballet belles.
AJJ ot. Jvilda’s importance of corporation was in
evidence, and Thomas Bent brought along his
rotundity and his most suave and bland appre-
ciation.
One pretty childish point in the affair was the
P' .jS U P °f gifts at the base of the platform by
children parcels and bundles of all sizes and
shapes. They were presents for homes that look
after sick children—the Cottage by the Sea, St.
Josephs Home, the Children’s Deaf and Dumb
Asylum, and other refuges for poor sick waifs.
This absolute mania for juvenile dancing has
two sides. There is no doubt of its benefit.
Orace and deportment,” as the prospectus says,
get a good buck-up. Nevertheless, the perpetual
twitching of the conglomerate youngster becomes
as terrifying as a St. Vitus' dance. Every child
of every little shelf in sassiety caste, from the
1 oorakian imp to Elliminta, the washerlady’s
pampered progeny, “goes to dancing class.”
-fhey learn the untold value of “ballet shoes”
and ribboned tambourines, and the abso-
lute necessity of 20 yards of Valenciennes
on underwear the size of a postage stamp.
One can t watch any group of everyday children
playing in an everyday way for five minutes be-
fore one will do a high kick or a side swirl with
the chubby bit of gristle and pink flesh it calls a
u ’• are alwa y s at it—the exercises get into
their blood. It is equally impossible to visit a
house that contains a modern imp without having
the latest “Dance Sylvans” or Highland Fling
kicked out by a befrilled youngster.
The Alliance Fran§aise, with its invitation
cards, its speech and its culinary arrangements all
in the most sprightly French, lately blossomed
into one of the occasional soirees that enliven the
seriousness of its regular course of classics. A
little play, with the young French-Australian
element battling as mummers with the lines, pre-
ceded an avalanche of sociable chat that overtook
supper time.
Though the Wirths have left their Park and
many attractions therein (including brother
Philip), the departed circus has taken from us our
only giraffe, also the roaring lions, and all the
friendly elephants save one. Lady-like Mielbourne
became quite attached to the menagerie this
season, as the management spread the animals
out of doors, with nothing but the dome of heaven
and a few cage bars to enclose the heroic Smell.
Menageries are most fascinating things when the
effluvium is eliminated, and one (or even two) can
watch the cruel graciousness of the leopards, or
provoke the British roar of the lion without inter-
mittent dashes for outer air. The elephants are
humanly fascinating things. A baby Jumbo born
in Australia seems to have a rank of his own by
reason of two respectably long tusks (by the way,
the ivory molars' are likely to snap during
some of his head-balancing antics in the
arena). He is apparently the same breed as the
four big elephants, all of whom are of the lady
persuasion. Good Lord, the fuss they make of
him ! Although he is onlya lad of 12 (Jumboattains
his majority at 17) the gigantic females treat him
as an adorable boy, stroke him with their trunks
and fondle him. Sometimes a lady elephant of
fast tendencies wants him to sit in her lap. They
are careful to summon him to the daily banquets,
and wait on his wishes with feminine humility.
If there is any sort of pepper or salt about they
presumably pass it to him before helping them-
selves. There is another baby male elephant
quite as old as Jumbo Superbus, but he is not in
the same caste—he has no tusks. The big old
girls pay him no court at all. He is left in the
desolate outer darkness of a step-child. Things
are not passed to him at table; he has to stretch.
The “ Sheath ” dresses that goad Mrs. Grundy
to desperation are something more than revivals
of duds ala directoire. It looks as if the idea
must have been cribbed from the Burmese. Bur-
mah girls not only sheath themselves in one con-
tinuous snake-wind of silk, but they wear the
absolutely correct slit, from knee to toe on the
left side, for all the world like a modern London
West End or Parisian beauty. They don’t trouble
about ‘ ‘ fleshings ” or silk socks to glimpse through
the breach. The Burmese maiden has something
particularly snappy in pale golden tinted nudity
on her scarce-veiled limb, and the daintily spread
toes of her sandalled feet would compare favor-
ably with the manicured hand of a seasoned
Bridge-playing sassiety maiden.
Thinking of dresses cc la directoire makes me
mourn the madness of the majority in blindly
following a fashion. They reason: “ Tight,
clinging dresses are worn ” (a word of fateful
weight), “therefore must we have a clingsome
frock.” The minority think the thing out from
top to toe, from inside to outside, and arrive at an
effect. The majority, with a fashion-book and a
handful of money and a nondescript dressmaker,
make a dash for things in general. Fat or skinny,
angular or humpy, it matters not. Fashion must
be followed, like the Man from Cook’s, The
recent race-time shrieked with incidental
illustrations. Quite apart from the humors
of the fat person in a tight satin dress,
there is the indiscreet person who wears a dress
without regard to etceteras. Etceteras constitute
a god before whom the well-dressed woman flat-
tens herself abjectly. She’ll offer that deity the
incense of any old money she can grab, and all
the time she can spare. What struck me in the
time between the races, when the lawn parade
was like a stage, was the madly expensive hats,
and the ruinous dresses, and the wrong shoes.
You would see a clingsome tight skirt that writhed
round the feet like snakes, but instead of a slender
shoe there would be a clumpy foot, protruding
hoof-gear that belonged to a past decade of
fashion ; also toes that cried for a short tailored
skirt and a short flare of petticoat. Then there
were the highly respectable young married ladies
who would be in the fashion, and they trekked
blindly after the Tightness, but did it with a holy
horror of detail. “Go without a petticoat! How
can you suggest such a thing ! My Jim would
” etc., etc. So they
waddled round in the lumpiness of aggressive
pleats and strings and buttons, and none but Jim
thought them beautiful. In many cases, pro-
bably, even Jim had his doubts, marriage being a
terrible shatterer of illusions.
Very lamentable was the death from appen-
dicitis of Mrs. Joseph Waxman, a prominent
member of an important tribe. She was the wife
of the eldest of the five Waxman brothers, sons of
the original Aaron, who left his family well pro-
vided with cash and brains. One of the brothers
is Albert Whelan, just now in America, the most
tuneful and versatile of all the mimics that Aus-
tralia has produced. Late Mrs. Joe Waxman,
who was only 40 years of age when she'passed out,
was a moving spirit in Jewish charitable societies,
and she played a useful part in the Brunswick
suburb, giving shekels, sympathy and time to
eases of distress thereabouts. There were many
who rose up and called her blessed, and she wiil
not be soon forgotten.
The eldest daughter of musical medico Eccles
has promised to listen to wedding bells with
Solicitor Giblin, of Hobart, son of the late Judge of
that name. The process that girl-chum lookers-
on call “ getting engaged ” has simmered all
through a very rushed race-time holiday. Now
the affair has just received popper’s consent, and
the triumphant knight returns to Hobart and his
neglected clients to catch up arrears of 6s. Bd.
Francie Nott, a charmer of Kew, is to be
knotted next week with Edward Burgess, one of
the Bowerabine Burgesses of Tasmania.
Mrs. Jim (Flinders-lane) Davies, that beautiful
h rench-Australian daughter of the house of Liet,
has been bargaining with the Stork. The bird
compromised by leaving a cute little dark-eyed
girl baby, and the general feeling is that he paid
at least 225. 6d. in the £ on his liabilities.
The young but vigorous Dental Hospital, which
is mothered by the University, and has on its staff
the leading scientific tusk men in Victoria, has
risen to the dignity of an annual congress. The
congress in evidence just now is inaugural. Suf-
fering humanity that is cursed with teeth that fall
as the leaf or ache like the Devil should skip with
joy at the devices and ideas these cogitating
brethren are advancing for their comfort. “Pain-
less” dentistry promises to be not at all painful in
the distant future, and the house next door to the
person who extracts teeth without suffering will
no longer be unlettable by reason of the shrieks of
the patients.
The small private dance is on the carpet (or
rather the waxed ballroom floor) just now. It pops
out all round the “ naice ” subbubs like a plenti-
ful attack of measles. The Harold Grimwades
managed to grab a cool spell for their dance last
week, when the Hampton-road house was practi-
cally turned inside out for the frivol. The Mia
Mia girls fed the whirlers in supper rooms that
Ronalds had lined from eyebrow to skirt-hem
with roses, and the sitting-out spaces were warmed
with the sunset hue of geranium and the allure-
ments of scarlet-glow lights.
The auburn-haired lady who led the Crusade of
the Sheath gown at race-time is said to be
married to her present cavalier. Attired in the
most perfect flannels, the present cavalier enjoys
the beauties of our river above Studley Park.
It is an enjoyment a deux. He and the auburn-
haired one row daily. She backs up the flannels
with white muslin and a Dream of a hat and all
the subtle languor of a chiffon parasol. They
dally as far as Fairfield, and take tea at the awn-
ing-ed kiosk, then row lazily on and drift back
with twilight and the current. Sometimes a
knight comes spinning up in a motor launch.
Kew and Heidelberg have their window eye
focussed on the river nowadays. They wonder
whether the Knight approves of Algernon, and
vice versa. And they would like to know how it
all came about.
From V Rosna,” of Adelaide
Three nights hath the remarkable Hambourg' grappled
here with his piano, and come forth victorious. Each
night Mrs. Mark, a vision in cool cream frills, smiled at
her lion from the front seats ; and the lion waved his
tail at her and passed her down a smile or two. The
audiences were as strenuous as usual, but Mr. Hammer-
bourg firmly discouraged that form of emotion, and only
one encore per evening: did he give them. If only a few
more stars would follow the same stern plan, Adelaide
audiences might learn to be moderately sane in their
demands.
Clara Kleinsehmidt, of the syndicated voice, has cap-
tured the Elder Scholarship, which will provide her with
three years’ tuition at the Royal College of Music,
Bullopolis. The same honor Was won years ago by the
damsel’s present teacher, charming Guli Hack ; and the
scholarship has only gone to a singer once since then.
Latterly not a single Elder scholar has done any great
thing, but Clara Kleinsehmidt is confidently expected to
shift this reproach off the premises. She will have a
farewell concert before long, and perhaps appear once in
each of the other States.
The runner-up for the scholarship was another singing
damsel, Olytie Hine, a pretty soprano, who has just
gained her associateship at the ’Varsity. She also con-
templates making for Edward Rex’s islet in search of
London polish for her vocal machinery. One more sing-
ing girl, Gwen Chaplin, has just come sailing home after
her search for polish. She has a contralto warble, and
went to John Bull’s territory with the Bach Society
Scholarship in her purse several years ago.
There has just passed out in Adelaide Peter
Miller, well known to the squatting fraternity as one of
the straightest men on the landscape. Many years he
was overseer at Anlaby, the gilded Duttons’ station, but
latterly had dwelt peacefully in this hamlet of Adelaide,
giving it points about the contemplative cow and the’
woolly animal that keeps its mouth shut when it is on the
way to the abattoirs—presumably on account of the dust.
The polo people flung open their season the other day’
and because this sport is tacitly understood to express
more ton to the square horse than any other, the crowd
that went to see the fray was as solid as its bank balance.
The weather behaved itself, so the women spread their
best frills and spent the afternoon in strenuous discussion
of tea and ices, the same being provided by the Law
Smiths.
Same afternoon a bunch of the McFarlane clan had the
Automobile Club to tea and tennis in the Botanic Gar-
dens. The club rolled up in vast numbers and motors
locked up the honk machine so that it couldn’t escape and
break the peace, and then gave itself up to the mirth of
the moment. There were some Rymills, Todds, Gun-
sons, Birks and Hamiltons among the throng • ’also a
batch of “ Hook of Holland” folk.
The Lyric Club has drawn the holland covers over its
melody for this year ; but, in deference to many firm
demands from members, it will keep itself open to tea
and lunch until Christmas eve, which is a great notion
In this tramless waste we badly need a peaceful haunt
where woman can cease from shopping and the weary
remove superfluous portions of the tramway excavations
from their eyes ; and the Lyric Clubrooms supply the
needful.
Alec Morison, who for something over a year has
strenuously hon. sec’d the Lyric Club, must give it up
now, he says. So the committee will be at the pain of
going out to hunt for a new hon. sec. And hon. secs,
don’t grow very luxuriantly in these parts. It simply
rains secs., but (alas !) so few of them are hon.
Two engagements have kindly arrived to break a spell
of monotony. One concerns Mrs. Boslev Jenkins, the
graceful widow of a well-known sharebroker—she’ who
did much amateur and a trifle of professional mumming
and vyho went to dwell in Sydney after her husband’s
death. The prospective Benedict is one Clare St. Clair,
whose blood, they whisper, is very blue. The other sweet
sacrifice is .Sheila Deele.v, whose lord-to-be isone of Bent’s
subjects.
Our young Kindergarten Union had its first graduation
the other day, when 11 jolly girls were launched. All
sailed at once to appointments that were waiting for
them. There was a pretty little graduation ceremony at
the Colton Hall, with some warbling of appropriate
Australian-made songs, and some speeches and things.
Lady Le Hunte was there to give the certificates away,
and a big crowd saw her do it.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: “ Sundry Shows,” speaking of Miss Anglin as
the Shrew, complains, with ,good cause, that she is vul-
garly violent—that she “ screams, chokes, gurgles in her
frenzy . . . commits all the social laches that the real
Katherine’s untutored tiring-woman would in like cir-
cumstances.” One might fairly allow a little vulgarity 7 to
Katharine’s displays of temper, seeing that she is so noto-
riously vixenish. People speak of her in the play as
having a devil of a temper. But the charge of exaggera-
tion holds good, nor has Miss Anglin any artistic defence
to offer. On the first night of her performance in
Melbourne, some weeks back, the actress was
true to herself. She presented a well - bred
Shrew. A newspaper found ffiult with her con-
ception of the character, and apparently she heard
other remarks which helped to persuade her that
the Australian public wanted Shakspearian comedy
“ chuck’t at’em.” If the shrewishness had been under-
done on the first night she was not going to err on that side
any more. She commenced to overdo it. She added new
farcical comedy 7 business —threw her visitor’s cap out of the
window, jumped ungracefully into the air, beat a tattoo
on the floor with her heels (getting Petruchio to make a
duet of that stale absurdity), and did herself a dozen other
injustices, on the understanding that the Australian pub-
lic approved of her unnatural behavior. But the public
didn’t approve. The lady 7 mistook the laughter of a few
fools for the roar of the populace.
Another fatal result of the “ William Tell ” performance
in London ! This time the delinquent is a lady stage-named
Clementine, who fired a rifle bullet at an apple placed on
the head of “ her assistant, a man named Lee.” and
lodged the bullet in a vital part of Lee —his brain, pre-
sumably. The question of “intentional inaccuracy”
naturally arises in these cases, and this will involve the
question as to whether the lady’s relations with Lee w 7 ere
“purely business” or otherwise. But, of course, it is
only reasonable to assume that, even though the man
were her husband or lover (on which point the first
cable threw no light), no passionate sentiment would
influence her professional feat of arms. This case is a
reversal of the order of sex in the Frayne incident, which
happened in America long ago. Frank Frayne used to
shoot an apple off the head of a bright little woman—
and she was his wife. One night, the bullet killed her.
He was tried for murder, and acquitted with acclamation
on the evidence of his having been an affectionate
husband, whose wife gave him no cause for jealousy.
Besides, he was an artist living by the success of his sen-
sational feat, and standing to be ruined by 7 a mishap. A
demand for legal prohibition of these dangerous shooting
acts was made at that time, and will be made again
in consequence of the fatality at the Middlesex
Music Hall. There is just as much cause for
outcry against dangerous trapeze acts in which
the performer is practically 7 at the mercy of the
assistant who directs the fixing of the gear. The present
writer calls to mind the incident of a woman acrobat in
Australia upbraiding her husband for carelessness which
might have been intentional. She was standing on a
trapeze bar ’way up near the roof of a lofty building, and
he was on the stage. Something was not right with the
fixings. “Do you w 7 ant to kill me?” cried she (in French)
to the fickle husband below. Probably he didn’t. She
was the breadwinner of the family.
A melodrama titled “ The Unwritten Law,” and “ based
on the Thaw murder scandal in ’Murka,” is to rear its
lurid head at Melb. Bijou on Boxing night.
“Ambigu”: “Fedora” does not rank with Sardou’s
best pieces, in a literary way, such as “Diplomacy 7,” the
“Scrap of Paper,” andi “Patrie.” Written round Bern-
hardt, it reminds me of a certain dress worn by an
actress, when a thousand fragments of it had to be pinned
on separately, thus making the attire not unlike Eve’s
fig leaves. Sardou wrote a rough scenario of “ Fedora.”
Then he started Bernhardt rehearsing. It was the case
of Balzac drafting a novel, after which he re-wrote it in
the proofs, in patchery. All Bernhardt’s paces must be
shown. They are nobody else’s paces. She mostly
walked through her parts in Australia and America, but
what a quivering Fedora, what a piece of galvanised
femininity, was seen on big occasions in Paris, London,
Rome, or New York. Sardou held her wraps at the
Parisian rehearsals, and would swathe her round, in the
spells, just like trainer Scobie putting the checked
cloths on a racehorse. Sardou (to return to the original
subject) is the superior Boucicault. Don’t talk of his im-
mortal plays. What is there to name in the same breath
with “Cyrano de Bergerac”? Sardou sank to a lower
plane of greatness as caterer to Bernhardt, the gymnaste
of genius.
“Scene-remover”: “Les Cloches de Corneville’ has
been boiled down into a music-hall sketch, and for some
time past has had a big run in England. A ballet on the
opera at the Alhambra has also been another boom.
There is a good deal of nonsense talked about the sacied-
nessof music, and about the sin of operas beingabbreviated
for the halls. But, as a matter of fact, no one has taken
such liberties with classical works as the composers them-
selves. Rossini built up his successful operas from what
was best in the unsuccessful ones. “ Faust ”is composed
almost entirely of airs which had served Gounod before,
and the famous Russian March and music of other scenas
in “ L’Etoile de Nord ” had before served Meyerbeer in
“The Camp of Silesia,” when Frederick the Great instead
of Peter the Ditto was the hero. As a rule, successful
operas are composed of one or two famous airs and a very
silly story. “Les Cloches ”is lucky in having an exceed-
ingly good story and about 10 excellent melodies. If the
whole of the yarn and the 10 numbers can be done in
half-an-hour as a sketch, the good old Public is the
gainer.
“ Sceneshifter ” : Now that the Divine William is once
more seen on a Sydney stage, the local scribes are tilting
at the moth-eaten and semi-historic saying, “ Shak-
speare spells ruin,” and are remarking how foolish it is,
and what a libel on intellectual Australia. As a matter
of fact, there is a lot of sound truth in it, as many a
manager has known. It was Dion Boucicault the elder
who invented the phrase, which was wrongly attributed
to Chatterton, manager of Drury Lane (London) from
1863 to 1878. For some time Old Drury, with Samuel
Phelps and Shakspeare, bad been dropping Cbatterton’s
money freely. Then Boucicault came along with “ For-
mosa,” and turned the house into a gold-mine—for a
season, anyway. The phrase above quoted appeared in a
published letter which defended the production of “For-
mosa,” regarded by Mrs. Grundy of the ’7o’s as a very
wicked drama. The letter was signed by Chatterton, but
was written by Boucicault. The phrase was “ Shakspeare
spells ruin and Byron bankruptcy.” Chatterton staged
“ Manfred,” “The' Doge of Venice ” (a conglomeration of
“The Two Foscari ” and “Marino Faliero ”) and other
Byronie plays, with disastrous results, and hi,s dictum
would apply to the bard and the Sydney Theatre Royal
now, if it were not for Margaret Anglin’s talent. She is the
fashion ; it is the correct thing to see her and rave over
her work, and to forget that Ristori, Janauschek, Gene-
vieve Ward, Mrs. Bernard Beere, and others ever came to
Sydney. Miss Anglin in a Punch and Judy show would
draw at present. How different it was in 1903, when
three magnificent Shakspearian shows did not meet with
anything like financial justice 1
EVIDENT.
HE : “ Why, what's the maţer?"
SHE: " Can't you see poor Fido is tery ill?"
HE: "Um-yes; be does look a bit pale."
“ Sceneshifter ” : Rose Hersee, a London prima donna
of repute, was a very 7 taking Eily 7 O’Connor in Lyster’s
production of Benedict’s “Lily of Killarney ” in the late
’seventies of last century. The opera was first given by
him in Sydney in 1865 —that is, according to stage his-
torian Brewer. In the Hersee days that glorious tenor
Amies Beaumont was HardressCregan, and G. P. Johnson
had the second tenor role, Myles—the part that Howard
Vernon scored his first success with. Beaumont’s sister
—Mrs. J. H. Fox—was Mrs. Cregan, and Charlie Temple-
ton —the father of Lempriere Pringle, here in 1901 and
1903 —and his wife (Ethel Lambert) played Danny Mann
and Ann Chute respectively. Hersee’s husband, Arthur
Howell, who stage-managed, was Father Tom. It was a
great show, with plenty of Irish jigs by the ballet, and
Zelman as conductor.
“The Taming of the Shrew” was the first piece that
Irving and Ellen Terry played leads in together. This
was at the old London Queen’s in 1867-8, the theatre
where George Rignold won his earliest Big Smoke
triumphs. Irving was not impressed with Ellen’s acting
then, and regarded her as more hoy 7 den than artist.
However, he had good reason to reverse his judgment
when he engaged her as leading lady for the Lyceum in
1878. In the ’eighties and the ’nineties the Augustin
Daly Co. of ’Murkan mummers found “ The Taming ”
a payable play 7, and Ada Rehan and John Drew built up
their reputations in it. F. R. Benson, the Phelps of the
modern stage, play's it round the English provinces, with
“ the missus ”as Katharine. Oscar Asche first saw it
with Benson, and when he went out on his little alone as
a manager, he added the comedy to his repertoire. It
has been one of his best specs, and as he doubles Chris-
topher Sly and Petruchio, and plays them both perfectly,
one can realise what an actor this Australian-born chap is.
His acting alone in the rarely-performed Induction
is something to remember. Caleb Porter, the original
Nero in “The Sign of the Cross” here, has played
Gremio (the part Overton plays with Anglin), for years
with Asche, who has his wife, Lily Brayton, as the Shrew.
Frances Ross, so long with Bland Holt, debuted in London
as Bianca to Ada Rehan’s Kate over 20 years ago. Sub-
sequently she gave a fine copy of the Yank’s work in a cut
version in Maoriland, with Arthur Greenaway as the whip-
cracking husband. Samuel Phelps, of course, included
the comedy in his famous 18 years (1844-1862) at Sadler’s
Wells, London, and retained the Induction, in' which he
was said to be immense as Sly 7. Hoskins, who was then a
member of theco., repeated “ TheShrew”on Phelps’lines
in Maoriland, but the writer has no record of his doing so
in Australia. Hoskins was for some time the intellectual
godfather to the Christchurch stage. In Australia
“ The Shrew ” is chiefly identified with G. V. Brooke and
Dewhurst, but there is a lot of mystery about these pro-
ductions. When Mrs. Molyneaux, Harry Douglas, and
Lachlan McGowan played it at Sydney Cri. in the October
of 1893, it was Garrick’s version, boiled down to one act,
and it followed Walter Bentley in “The Bells” and a
Scotch accent.
Thornton, as the Rev. Spalding-, is practically the same
as ever except that he has a round bald spot on the place
where some hair used to grow, and his voice is rather
huskier and heavier than of yore. His performance is
unaltered, but he seems to have moderated the energy of
the other people as regards himself. They no longer lift
him from his feet by his coat collar and throw him into a
chair. They drag him along.
Charles Holloway, the well-known Australian actor,
died of pneumonia in a private hospital, on Sunday.
He married Miss Alice Deorwyn—“ Little Alice,” of the
long ago—and leaves a daughter, Miss Beatrice Holloway,
on the stage. He was brother to VV. J. Holloway (“ Bill ”
Holloway), also well known on the Australian stage as a
hard-toiling though somewhat wooden actor, and as the
step-father of the heavenly Essie Jenyns. Charles,
deceased, was a mummer of the conscientious, painstaking
variety. He hadn’t a spark of genius, but he knew his
parts to the last letter, and plodded through them
reliably and without a hitch. The mechanical part of
stage-craft was an open book to C. Holloway, and if
necessary he could show the carpenter how to make the
sea-coast of Bohemia out of two rocks, a few yards
of calico and a bottle of Judson’s dye, and produce such
a life-like imitation that any Bohemian would weep on
seeing it, because it reminded him of home and mother.
Charles Holloway was much liked in the profession. He
was kindly and considerate ; his ghost always walked on
both legs ; and even if he did stage “ The Severed Ear ”
kind of piece-he staged it well.
Erskine Scott talks reminiscently of “ Jim the Pen-
man ” : “I was manager for Harry St. Maur (who was the
Jim of the world without doubt) in the late ’eighties and
early ’nineties. On one occasion the actor billed for the
Baron failed to turn up, and this part, a very heavy one,
was played—and played splendidly—by David Christie
Murray, the novelist, with 24 hours’ study and rehearsal —
an extraordinary performance by a man who had
never acted before, his previous stage experience having
been limited to lecturing. Murray continued to
play the part on tour, with other roles, in dramas
of his own, ‘ Chums,’ ‘ Gratitude,’ etc. He became a
partner in the business, and the combination should
have been a good one—Murray to write comedy dramas,
St. Maur to give them the finishing touches and produce
them with his company. An unfortunate quarrel put an
end to the partnership, and Murray drifted back to jour-
nalism in London, where he died last year. I remember,
on one occasion, St. Maur, against advice, had engaged a
wealthy, handsome amateur to play the part of Louis
Percival (one of the most important) at the Mel-
bourne Opera House. We all had our misgiving's
as to the result. It was disastrous. The ama-
teur ‘ dried up ’ completely early in the first
act. Stage fright gripped him, and Fred Stanmaur,
after an apology from the management, came on and read
the part throughout the whole play. ‘ Jim ’ was always a
sure money-getter with us on tour. I remember hearing
two old Hobart identities talking together after a per-
formance. ‘Where ’ave ye been, Bill?’ ‘Oh, to the
theay ter to see this ’ere “ Jim the Penman.’” ‘ What is
this “Jim the Penman,” Bill? Is it a comedy or a
tragedy?’ ‘Well, I dunno,’Any.’ (Long pause.) ‘lt
ain’t a comedy and it ain’t a tragedy. It’s a forgery!
that’s what it is!’ The first performance in Australia
took place at the Melbourne Bijou in 1886, with St. Maur
as Jim, H. H. Vincent as the Baron, Frank Cates as
Louis Percival, Alfred Maltb.v as Captain Redwood, Miss
Agnes Thomas as Mrs. Ralston, Miss Pattie Brown
as Agnes Ralston, and Miss Annie Taylor, Hans
Phillips, Darcy Stanfield and Wiseman in other
roles. Subsequently it was produced at the Sydney
Opera House. A couple of years later, in Melbourne,
a memorable revival of ‘Jim ’ was presented by Brough
and Boucicault, with St. Maur in the name part,
Geo. Titheradge as the Baron (a condescension on his part
to play second, and a great tribute to St. Maur’s un-
doubted genius), Miss Florence Seymour as Mrs. Ralston,
Cecil Ward as Louis Percival, Violet Ellicott as Agnes
Ralston, Miss Romer (the noted grande dame) as Lady
Dunscombe, Owen Harris as Capt. Redwood, and J. F.
Cathcart, George Lash Gordon, Chichester, Mclntyre,
and Harry Daniels in the minor parts. On this occasion
the success was very great, both artistically and
financially, against the big opposition of the Farren
and Leslie Gaiety Co. The play' suffered a good deal
in London from the fact that many well-known managers
refused it. The Kendalls would not have it at any price,
Mrs. Kendall saying that no wife would treat her hus-
band as Mrs. Ralston does. Lady Monckton was the one
to discover the merits of the piece, and she first appeared
as the Penman’s wife. Rumor had it that whilst Sir
Charles Young, the author, was alive he would allow no
other actress to undertake the part in London, being, no
doubt, piqued at the play’s rejection by so many managers.
Young wrote other plays, but this was his only success.”
“K.”: Recent reappearances of “Pinafore” recall the
blasphemous atrocity perpetrated by Luscombe Searelle,
the composer of “Bobadil,” “ Estrella,” etc. Boldly
annexing all Gilbert’s characters, and inventing a new
one—a nigger cook—he wrote a sequel opera called “ The
Wreck of the Pinafore,” in which Act I. showed the
familiar deck scene, ending up with a wreck, and Act 11.
a coral island. Gilbert was furious and never rested until
he got an injunction. Somebody alleged that there was
only one joke in “ The Wreck of the Pinafore,” and it was
bad enough to call for the axe. A sailor reported : “ The
yard is squared,” whereupon a brilliant officer replied:
“ I wish I were in the backyard.”
“ D.” : Palis papers print a tragic story about Caruso,
the mighty tenor. The lady on whom he has lavished a
villa, a motor car, and £20,000 worth of jewellery, has
fallen in love with his chauffeur and abandoned the idol
of Covent Garden and the New York Opera House. She
has clung lovingly, however, to the motor car and the
jewel's, and she proposes to make a determined legal bid
for the villa. At the time the calamity happened,
arrangements were being made by Caruso for her to
visit the U.S. A. and get a Yankee divorce from her un-
accommodating spouse. Failing to persuade the lady to
leave the chauffeur and return to him, Caruso called in
tears on her husband, whom he implored passionately to
“ make use of his legitimate rights and cause the outrage
to cease.” “ Jlelas ! ” says the Paris Journal, “le mari
se contenta de sourire avee philosophic ” —which is to say,
the husband only grinned. It is a dreary picture. Caruso
is inconsolable, but is really too fat to reap any sympathy.
Ihe Bulletin has received the following
letter:—
Sir,—You have made a fairly savage attack on me for
attending the recent exhibition of New South Wales
manufactures, and speaking thereat. Granting that what
I did was shocking from the standpoint of a bigoted Pro-
tectionist, who is mostly to blame—those who invited, by
card and letter, my attendance, or myself for accepting a
courteous invitation ?
As to my interest in local manufactures, let mj r votes
in respect of bounties to assist them be sufficient reply,
and let me add that my late father, Dr. J. C. Neild, was
the first person to establish in New South Wales a com-
plete sugar-making factory, for the purposes' of which
he both grew and purchased cane. Yours, etc.,
Jno. C. Neild.
P.S.—As to speaking at the Ex. of M., I begged to be
excused. Everyone present knows that. —J.C.N.
The Bulletin is glad to hear that Mr. Neild’s
father was engaged in the first great industry
which grew up under Protection in allegedly
“Freetrade” N.S.W. As regards Mr. Neild’s
votes in favor of bonuses to local manufactures,
they would have been honest enough votes if a
Protectionist had given them. Coming from an
alleged Freetrader they showed an amazing laxity
of political principle, or a cheerful readiness to
sacrifice principle for the sake of popularity.
Adelaide Register makes its usual forecast
of the State’s wheat-harvest (based on wide and
minute inquiries) at 13| bushels to the acre, and a
total of 24J million bushels. This will be easily
the S. A. record, if realised—and these forecasts
are generally well inside the mark. The (so-called)
West Coast, now being closely settled, helps on
the total largely, and there are some 20-bu.shel
crops confidently looked for away up North, out-
side Goyder’s Rainfall Line, where good seasons
are so few that practically the land lies fallow for
two or three years at a stretch. No wonder that,
when it does get the rain it needs, it gives some-
thing extra.
Writes “0.K.”
A droll case of family strife came to light at Port Mel-
bourne Court week before last, when “ a stylishly dressed
young married woman” was charged with assaulting her
step-sister, also married and “ respectable looking and well
dressed.” The defendant, seemingly, is a high-spirited
young matron of vixenish disposition, but not more
vixenish, perhaps, than others whose tempers never get
them into the newspapers. Her evidence indicated that
her natural combativeness—which is a fine matronly
quality in moderation—has been inflamed by the study of
Burns-Squires-Johnson literature. Also, like other
matrons, she appears to suffer from jealousy, which is
probably groundless, or, if not quite groundless, very im-
politic. In fact, she is just a stylishly-dressed representa-
tive of the large class of women who toss their heads
defiantly and carry their feelings of grievance to excess.
An untamed Katharine, consumed by the thought that
Petruchio and her step-sister are “ too thick,” she
swept into the Port Melbourne Court like a breeze off the
sea, fresh and invigorating. Her evidence as to how she
treated step-sister was a beautiful confession of truth.
“Yes,’’said Katharine to the assistant clerk of courts, when
he asked her what she was going to plead. “ Yes, I struck
her. She wasskiting about what she was going- to do to
me, so I got in first to avoid the crush.” There was no
arguing with the fair defendant. The very feather in her
hat rose like a cockatoo’s crest at the suggestion that she
had exceeded her sacred rights. Magistrate Keogh asked
her to show cause and justification for having punched
step-sister in the face when she was down —a most un-
Squireslike proceeding-. “ I say she deserved all she got,”
replied Katharine ; “she was going to give me a doing,
and I thought I would get in early. Why didn’t she take
her gruelliny like a man 1 ” Naturally, a fine of 20s. and
Costs struck Katharine the untamed as an unjust decision,
and she said so. In the course of the hearing, step-sister
Bianca exclaimed, “Oh, what a dreadful scandal! ” Who
made it a scandal? Not Katharine, but Bianca. She
gave her relative in charge to a constable, instead of
meekly asserting the equality of the sexes as regards a
mere spoonful of gruel. There’s nothing of Burns and
Squires about Bianca.
If Premier Bent and his leading
Oppositionist (Prendergast) will kindly resume
their recent outbreak of mutual recrimi-
nations, Victoria in general will begin
to know something about the character of
Bent’s schemes for bursting up big estates and
putting settlers on the land. In the heat of
last week’s engagement Prendergast blurted out:
There is £3OO paid in regard to the Ohirnside estate.
The members of the Closer Settlement Board denied that
they knew anything about the purchase. I notice that
an action in regard to that matter which was to have
come before the Supreme Court to-day was setttled.
How and why was it settled ? For that matter,
why are these hints and insinuations wrapped in
mystery and confined to moments of anger? It is
always open to Prendergast to ask Bent in a
frigidly deliberate manner to furnish details of all
the business transactions in which his friend
Reuben Keirl has been concerned with the
Government. And to ask for information as to
the previous ownership of all land bought for
closer settlement, it having been wickedly
asserted that a block purchased for the Govern-
ment had, only a few days previously, come into
the possession of an officer in the Lands Depart-
ment, who presumably made a handsome profit
on his bargain. There are so many things
that Prendergast might inquire about in a calm,
dignified spirit, instead of firing off vague sugges-
tions of scandalous dealings when he happens to
lose his temper.
The “ Old Soldier ” writes about explo-
sive bullets and a new brand of the horror :
I see from my Bulletin that one Pomeroy has been
making experiments with explosive bullets on Port Mel-
bourne rifle range. I can go back nearly 60 years and find
memories of such things even then. At that time John
Jacob, of the Bombay army, was busy experimenting with
rifles and explosive bullets of his own invention. They
were provisionally adopted by the Indian Government,
and the rifles were issued to a native infantry regiment
on the Bombay establishment, but were called in again
after the Crown took over the government in 1859, “for
the sake of uniformity.” The shells from the Jacob rifle
would do all that is claimed for the Pomeroy shells —
would blow up ammunition waggons and gun limbers, set
fire to timber-stacks and wooden buildings, and do other
material damage of that sort. The idea has been gener-
ally taken up by gunmakers all over Europe, and the
makers of rifles for big-game shooting in wild countries
are always ready to supply explosive bullets to fit the
bore of their guns. The explosive bullet, if it hits its
mark, is naturally much more deadly than the non-
explosive, and it saves the sportsman the burden of a
large-bore “ bone-smasher,” like the cumbrous elephant
guns that used to be all the rage in south Africa. As a
military weapon, however, European diplomacy has
put an end to any prospect of utilising the explo-
sive bullet, and it is to be hoped that no champion of
“ loyalty ” will get it into his wooden head that the Com-
monwealth has had a hand in Mr. Pomeroy’s experiments.
THE FAIRIES’ HATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The roses are the fairies’ hats
For garden ffite or races,
Clipped from the stiff stalks, thick and brown,
They always wear them upside down
Above their winsome faces.
For pins they have the pointed thorns
Pricked in, as Nature curves them,
And when, for some select affair,
They need a buckle here or there,
A web-caught dewdrop serves them.
The brides make sun hats from a rose
As white as cloud at morning,
The maidens take a musk-bud’s fold,
The heiresses don cloth of gold
To show lean suitors scorning !;
And when you see stray petals float,
Some fairy, in a passion,
Has flung a dowdy bonnet down,
And the dry blooms, sun-scorched and brown,
Are toques gone out of fashion.
The little dimpled fairy babes,
In their round green clover frocks,
Who play within the scented beds,
The bonnets on their flaxen heads
Are the soft, sweet-smelling stocks 1
The pale green candles on the Fir
Last night were shining brightly,
And, underneath the brooding tree,
The roses nodded, stalkless, free
Upon fair heads set lightly.
The Hainan Cochets were held high,
The Gloire de Dijons fluttered,
You never saw such charming hats —
I peeped between the narrow slats—
My windows were all shuttered !
I saw them dance a minuet,
To the sparrows’ drowsy' cheep,
Gay pixies romp with flower-decked head,
While human children, sent to bed,
Are thought to be asleep.
The moon looked down and laughed at them,
Such a gold October moon,
And from the clover on the lawn
The dew-pearls were all gone by dawn,
To be stitched on dainty shoon.
The roses are the fairies’ hats,
They choose them at their pleasure,
Pin them fast with many a thorn,
So they keep straight from Eve to Morn,
Mad waltz or stately measure.
The roses are the fairies’ hats
For garden fSte or races,
Clipped from the stiff stalks, thick and brown,
Worn in the mode, set upside down
About their winsome faces.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


ā
f'-m
iVLcTWS# J° /* £
c fdvJ>Jg
'tan
t HK>
1
W J&
i ,'
s
i i wn
&sS~ <5-
»n
< lr 7
pS^.
K
P ~
‘ v'*
“T/ie dogs Mrky&ut
die CaravanpbffeU
Smb/artproverb.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
BAR.NET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and 234 Clarence Street, Sydney.
IHfc BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hnnyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
•* Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
■ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
Of the Label.
CHEAP QUEENSLAND LEASEHOLDS.
Forty miles from Central Line, 55,000 acres, good tenure, low rent, good, healthy
country permanently watered, well improved, 15,000 mixed sheep, chiefly young ewes, 150
cattle, 35 horses. £12,500.
Fifty miles from South Western Railway, 500 square miles, of which half is good sheep
country, Myall Plains chiefly, red soil, well improved, 7000 to 8000 well-bred Durhams, low
rental, good leases, 92/6 per head, 8 per cent, calf allowance.
In Central Queensland, 22,000 acres, 28 years’ lease, low rental splendid sheep country,
well watered, 8000 sheep, 85 per cent, lambs at foot. Think £7OOO for quick sale.
Fifteen miles from Central Railway, 40,994 acres, thickly-grassed country with nice
edible timber, well watered, creeks, springs, etc., well improved, good house, etc., 10,000 sheep.
£7OOO cash. For further particulars apply to —
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO. LTD.,
stock and Station Agents, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SMOKE
/sr
REFEREE tobacco
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET of
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
30th SEPTEMBER, 1908.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation... £1,000,851 0 0
Deposits and accrued
Interest 26,872,784 13 2
£27,573,635 13 2
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit of In-
vestments Fluctuation Account,
Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee and Provi-
dent Fund and the Buck-land Fund).. 3,326,757 14 8
Paid-up Capital, £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... 1,580,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 210,074 6 6
' 4,270,074 6 6
£35,470,467 14 4
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra... 851,963 9 10
£36,322,431 4 2
ASSETS.
167,095
38,393
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances £7,249,312 15
Queensland Government
Notes
Notes of other Banks..
Money at short call in
London
Investments —British &
Colonial Govern
merit Securities.
~ Municipal & other
Securities
Due by other Banks.. .
Bills Receivable i
London and Remit
tances in transit
450,000 0 0
2,523,046 3 0
149,764
56,026
1,919,424 9 6
-£12,554,261 18 2
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Advances
to Customers 22,226,205 16 2
Bank Premises 690,000 0 0
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, as per Contra.
£35,470,467 14 4
851,963 9 10
£36,322,431 4 2
PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1908.
Dr.
To Rebate (at current rates) on Bills Dis-
- counted not due at this date £8,158 6 3
Balance proposed tobedealt with as follows:
To Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum ...£125,000 0 0
~ Augmentation of the Re-
serve Fund 40,000 0 0
; Balance carried forward.. 36,916 0 3
201,916 0 3
£210,074 6 6
B.y Amount from last Account
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits after pro-
viding- for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Fluctuations in tbe Value of Investment
Securities, reducing the Valuation of
Bank Premises, and including Re-
coveries from Debts previously written
off as Bad
£33,958 2 0
176,056 4 0
£210,074 6 6
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1908.
Cr.
To Balance ...£1,600,000 0 0
(Of which £7(10,000 is invested in British
Government Securities, and the balance
is employed in the business of the Bank.)
By Balance..: £1,560,000 0 0
„ Amount from Profit and Loss 40,000 0 0
£1,600,000 0 0
By Balance £1,600,000 0 0
ALFRED G. MILSON,
HARRINGTON PALMER,
Auditors.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
a.
v\j
£
fU
TRADE MARK
031*
“Santa Claus*
Favorite Gift”
If you want the children to remem-
ber you gratefully for years to come,
give them a Phonograph. They will
forsake all other Christmas presents
for that. They will never tiro of it,
because it has always something new
to offer. It is full of fun and music
and pleases everybody, big or little?
An
IMPROVED
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
talks, plays and sings. It makes home
happy because it provides a greater variety
of clean fun and vocal and instrumental
music than any other automatic entertainer.
Many Edison Gold Moulded Records especially
adapted to children.
Your nearest dealer will be pleased to show
you the Genuine Edison and play over some of
the latest records.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia,
Limited,
34 0 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
In the valuation of David Syme’s Victorian estate for
probate purposes the Age is set down as worth £361,530,
apart from the premises (£67,016). Goodwill is reckoned
at £258,450; this includes the business of the Leader
and Every Saturday, leaving £103,080 to represent
plant, paper stock, book debts, etc. Then there is the
Age’s share in the premises and plant atSouth Melbourne,
where, by agreement, the Age, Argus or Herald may be
produced in case of fire at the principal shop. The
whole concern certainly isn’t over-valued. Sydney
Daily Telegraph, which can hardly be as pro-
fitable as the Age, is in 15,000 shares, which the
market values at about £7O each, or £1,050,000 for the lot.
Syme’s Victorian estate was sworn at £929,480 ; but he
had made provision for some of his children beforehand.
And then there is extensive N.S.W. property, pastoral
and otherwise. As to the jumbuck brand of investment,
Simon Fraser was David’s chief adviser.
* * * *
Bathurst National Advocate paid a 5 per
cent, dividend this month. It is the first time the
joyous thing has transpired during the paper’s 21
years of existence. The Advocate was started in
desperation by Protectionists in and about the City
of the Plains at a time when it was the custom
of the N.S.W. press to treat high-tariffists as strange, half-
witted creatures to whom the ordinary rules of fair play did
not apply. The promoters of the Advocate never hoped to
make it pay. All they asked of the paper was that
it should supply the other side of the fiscal question in a
decisive tone of voice every morning. It sold better and
better as the years went on, and the Nationalist feeling of
the district increased, and finally has got to the
stage when the co. is a paying proposition. The Advocate
has been unflinchingly democratic and Protectionist
from the jump (a direct result of its efforts was
the firing out of Sid Smith and the replacement of
him in the Australian Parliament by Laborite Carr). In
its own little way the Advocate affords an encouraging
indication of the prospects of a Sydney daily along the
same lines.
• • * *
“Philo”: An artful trick is being carried on
around Sydney by an energetic coterie of pirates—pro-
fessionally known as “ mullock sellers.” They work in
pairs, and their means of attack are smart attire, a
pleasant expression, a plausible manner, and a horse and
trap similar to those used by commercial travellers.
Arriving at the front door of a likely-looking house, one
of the pirates alights from the vehicle, and opens the
attack per medium of the door-knocker. On being re-
ceived by the mistress of the house, he explains that he is
travelling for (mentioning the name of a large city
warehouse). The firm, he asserts, has decided to supply
the public direct, instead of through the shopkeeper only,
as formerly. He is merely taking orders from samples,
and the goods will be sent from the warehouse
in the course of a day or so. No payment is
to be made until the goods are delivered. He
then loftily orders his companion on the buggy to fetch
the samples, and the other buccaneer arrives with a
number of useful household articles—towels, crockery,
etc.—which the boss robber quotes to his delighted vic-
tim at a mere fraction of their real value. A ss. article,
for instance, is quoted at Is., and so on. The lady orders
copiously, and the pirate affects to enter the items in a
capacious order-book. When the order is completed, he
closes the book and proceeds to get into amiable conver-
sation with his customer. After a while he remarks, in a
tone meant to convey that he is about to confer a great
favor, “ By the way, Mrs. Blank, I happen to have a few
lengths of a very special cloth which I have been usingas
a sample, but as the firm has now sold out of the line, I
have been authorised to sell the samples. George, bring
me those specimens of that best, superfine, high-
grade, all-wool Fox’s serge! ” George complies with
much deference. The pirate displays the cloth with
enthusiasm. He assures the lady that it is worth at least
10s. per yard, but as it has outlived its usefulness as a
sample, she can have it at 6s. per yard, cash down. The
housekeeper remembers the cheapness of the other
articles, and probably makes a purchase. The thing
turns out to be cheap ootton rubbish, worth only a few
pence per yard. And the business ends there. George
and his fellow ruffian never come back.
* • * *
I am glad “Kink” (B. 3/9/’08) lias
ventured to curse the greed of gold. In Victoria the gold
joss is worshipped nowhere like it is in Bendigo. One
time the country for miles along-the banks of the Bendigo
Creek was noted for its rich lands, and the water in the
creek was clear and sparkling. Then the gold kings got
to work and tore up the bowels of the earth, and the dirt
that w'as sent up from a mile or so below the surface was
dumped into the Bendigo Creek after the gold had been
captured. The creek began to fill up, and the water became
pea soup, and the pea soup finally became plain mud,
which spread over the surrounding country, destroying
the vegetation like a flow of lava from a volcano.
When a heavy fall of rain comes along, the silted-up
creek spreads over the landscape for miles and does
damage that is simply appalling. Yet if any of the.
drowned-out or damaged people say anythingaboutstop-
ping the mines from tipping their rubbish in the creek, a
howl goes up—“ Ah, you can’t hamper the great mining
industryl Look at the number of men that are employed
in the mines 1 ” Nevertheless, if we were a properly-
governed people the valley of the Bendigo Creek would
give employment to many more thousands of people than
are being more or less slowly murdered in the mines of
Bendigo.
■ -rf- * *
IN THE STYLE OF MARY ANN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The architecture of the Dominion is a qualified Queen
Anne in front and Mary Ann behind. —Statement of
wrathful Timaru (M.L.) Architect.
It is proposed to build a new Maoriland Parliament
House at a cost of £lOO,OOO. —News Item.
We are spending a hundred thousand quid in the fashion
of Mary Ann,
And they tell us that we can afford it well, but I’m Mowed
if I think we can ;
If we really haven’t the cash to spend on gingerbread,
putty and gilt,
Is it fair that our grandsons must toil to pay for the
horror that we have built ?
When nobody knows for a single hour when an earth-
quake is coming our way,
That will bump all Wellington into a heap, and drop the
wreck in the bay ;
When nobody knows for a singie year when the Treasury’s
going to smash,
In the beautiful fashion of Polly Ann we are wasting
Posterity’s cash.
In the beautiful fashion of Sarah Jane when she goes on
a jamboree,
We’ll dress our Parliament House in style by the shores of
the windy sea,
With a Tudor porch, and a Norman arch, and an Early
English hump,
We’ll fix it up with a Gothic roof, and a large Byzantine
bump.
We’ll have Moorish cupolas up and down, and Corinthian
columns as well.
With a sort of a woolshed stuck between, and a Hindu
tower for a bell,
With a small bark humpy high on the top, and a Maori
wharC below,
And a lot of gilt, and putty', and paint to finish the .
stately show.
So we’ll spend a hundred thousand quid in the style of
Jemima Sal,
Constructing a palace built on lines that are not geo-
metrical.
We haven’t a ship that can do a hurt, and we’ve scarcely
a fighting man,
But our architecture’s Queen Anne in front, and behind
it is Mary Ann.
maoriland.
D.M.W.
BENT’S ROSARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Bent in his budget speech indicated that Victoria
had enjoyed a prosperous year. The estimated surplus
for the current year is £1097.
These few small coins I have not spent
Are as the sacred beads to me,
I count them, in my discontent,
My rosary!
My rosary !
When I remember sessions past,
And Budgets that were writ in gold,
Oh ! then with prayers that travel fast
My beads are told !
My beads are told !
The Day departs—the sad Night comes,
And I am left on bended knee
Doing interminable sums,
Ah ! woe is me 1
Ah ! woe is me 1
N.S.W.
E. FRANSCIR.


Tsho.
GRAND PRIZE
and Two Gold Medals were secured at tbe
F ranco-Britisb
Exhibition
t m
by tbe
BEALE Australian PIANOS
of which ten models were shown. None of these were
specially prepared, but were just taken from our ordinary
stock. Exactly similar models may be seen in any of our
showrooms throughout Australia.
The above awards were made by the Grand Jury on
the unanimous recommendation of the sub-committee,
consisting of three French and two English experts.
They settle once and for all the high standing of the
Beale Australian Pianos, and fully justify all the claims
that we have made for them.
BEALE <&, CO. Ltd.
"THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next Q.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
Cash or Easy Terms.
Old Pianos taken in Exchange.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FOB - SKII
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
WORMS.
Every child suffers more or less from those very
troublesome parasites which infest the stomach
and intestines, thread and stomach worms, which
are the cause' of much of the irritability, fretful-
ness and restlessness in children of all ages. Pur-
gative medicines have no effect upon worms, they
require a specific remedy.
C OMSTOC/f$
"HEAD SHOT'*
Worm pelis
Children
Sr Adults. I
are a safe, sure, and reliable remedy, prepared in
the form of a lolly, effectual both with children
and adults. Price Is. 6d. (6 boxes Bs. 6d.), at all
chemists ; or post free from the W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-Messrs. E. H. FOTHEROILL & CO., 16 Mouatt 8t„ Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., KEDFEKN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“10-2-4” : Joe Grimm, the Iron Dago, had the
nearest squeak conceivable last week to losing his reputa-
tion as one whom nothing less than a falling meteorite is
capable of knocking out. The party responsible was Jim
Griffin, the list. 71b. hurricane from M.L. James is a
tall slight, bald young man. He veils his true character
behind a mask of ascetic calm. He speechifies (all pugs,
who are any “class” at all are finished platform orators
these days) in a high-pitched, cultured voice, and the
\V A Holman manner—only more so. He is a deception.
Immediately the metalliform foreigner sparred up,
Griffin (who is the most formidable “rough-up” fighter,
by the way, the writer has ever seen) leapt at him and
smote him violently on the jaw. Joseph waved his right
arm three times round his head in an intensely menacing
fashion, and missed staving in Griffin’s skull by a, hair s-
breadth. Griffin promptly made impact upon his ad-
versary (1) on the nose ; (2)lin the eye ; (3) in the stomach.
Grimm drew off, smiled, bowed courteously, and aimed
at his assailant a combined hook, jab and right-left
swin<- that, had it connected, should have sent the other
to the Jasper Sea. Griffin retaliated by bashing his
Italian acquaintance in the right eye and jabbing him
with piston-like force in the ribs. This sort of thing went
on for 20 rounds. For 15 rounds a smile—a shade
forced at times, yet an indisputable smile—bespread
the Latin’s granite face. After that it wore off.
For the first time in his life the smile’s proprietor was in
trouble. Griffin, on the other hand, seemed livelier than
ever. The unhappy Joseph was smitten with terrific
force on all allowable portions of his anatomy. Gallantly
he battled on. In the 20th round he captured a cannon-
like shot as near the point as not to matter. He fell
with an embittered thud on his back. There he lay till
within three seconds of the count-out. Ashe rose reeling
to receive his congi the gong sounded. Annd the hoots
of the chivalrous Gaiety Hall patrons, he fell into his
corner, and yielded him to the ministrations of his
seconds. Technically he wasn’t knocked out. But J.
would have liked to bet about his fate had the gong
chipped in half a minute later. #
Johnson announces that he has received an offer
from a New York syndicate which, provided he beats
Tommy Burns, is anxious to take him right round the
world to fight all-comers and finish up with ex-champion
James Jeffries. Jeffries said that if a black man won the
championship of the world, he would “emerge from his
retirement” to recover it for the white race. All this
talk is very fine, but “emerging from retirement
usually means coming out to get a violent hiding.
Jeffries is not improving physically during these days
that he is piling up money, and long ere this the once
mighty boilermaker has got fat inside. There is no cer-
tainty' that James could have walloped Johnson when he
was at his best, although the impression is in James s
favor. Still, it is only an impression, and so many
o-eneral impressions have turned out to be wrongs when
tested. But it is almost a certainty that if thehi man
with the 24in. neck does “ emerge from his retirement
to face Johnson, he will get a bad beating.
* * *
“Slu<r ” : Cabled privately that throughout the
USA. Johnson is an odds-on favorite. Also, every pro-
fessional fighter I have spoken to in Sydney declares that
Johnson must win. All the same, I stick to the opinion
that, in spite of his greater reach, height, weight and all
the rest of it, the superior brain of Burns is going to bring
him out top dog on Boxing Bay. Burns has invented a
new and very effective style of fighting, and the bruising
brio-ade, which is anything but a brainy set, sees nothing
in it Burns is not a scrapper after their own style,
therefore there is no good in him. On paper, John-
son ought to win easily. He has a tremendous handicap,
and all that Burns has to bring against his manifold
physical advantages is the better thinking plant. Th
coming struggle is between thinking machinery and
hitting mechanism. # ,
ADDarently Johnson is not the cocksure man
he was, and his fluting begins to ring hollow. Last week
accompanied by a retinue of trainers, he called on the
Mclntosh, and demanded that, in addition to a referee,
two judges should be at the ringside on December 26, to
judge of the respective merits of the fighters in the event
of the contest being a close one. The Mclntosh agreed
to put the matter before Burns, and when he did. Burns
looked at him, took a deep breath, and then, Saa>,
Mac what’s the matter with the man ?’’ Burns is totally
opposed to the idea., which he cons.ders is calculated
to raise a hoarse guffaw throughout the world.
If Johnson is going to do only half the things
to Burns that he promised, it isn’t two judges that
will be required at the ring-side, but a sweeper-
up. But evidently that was all moonshine, and the
best that Johnson hopes for is a victory on points. If
the fragments of Burns are to be strewn around among
the audience, there will be no need of a judge to say
who has won, the fact will be self-evident, and all that
will be required will be a referee to see that Burns is
killed and dismembered according to the strict rules of
the game. Two judges and a referee —why not a jury
of eleven and a referee ? #
When Burns and Squires were preparing to biff
one another, the Mclntosh was swamped with letters from
females anxious to see the disturbance ; and now the
man’s life is a weariness to him from the same cause. As
no women will be admitted to the contest, the Mclntosh has
allowed the dear creatures to watch Tahmmy training at
the Stadium on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons free
of charge, with tea and pastry turned on in large quanti-
ties. Last Saturday saw 5000 people at the Stadium, a
large proportion being females, and they punctuated their
squeals with long cups of tea, cream tarts, and puffs of
various sorts. The Mclntosh has a tender feeling towards
the fight-loving female. She is going to make the cine-
matograph pictures profitable after the war is^over.
As Squires seems to be fairly spoiling for a
fight, it has been determined to provide him with one,
and William Lang will be at his disposal. Word has been
sent to Boshter Bill, who is touring Maoriland, getting
walloped over again on the screen, and there is little
doubt that he will be only too delighted.
* ■* * *
Dave Smith, matched to fight Billy McCall,
as the winner of the McCall-Murphy contest, is the first
pug to come from the ranks of the surf-bathers, though
several, like Kling and Blackmore, have taken to the wet
game after winning a name within the roped ring. Smith
is a member of the Bondi Surf and Social Club, which
lias the distinction of having among its members the
champion heavyweight amateur boxer of Australia
(Smith, aforesaid, who is now about to turn pro) and the
champion heavyweight amateur wrestler of Australia
(artilleryman Shepherd). Smith, like Tommy Burns, is
a strangely small man to fight in the heavyweight divi-
sion. He is under sft. Sin. in height, and scales in condi-
tion something between list. 41b. and 12st. He trusts to
be able to bring himself down to the former tonnage in
order to fight as a middleweight. Smith is a Maorilander,
but he learned his boxing on this side, and his record as
amateur champion includes his defeat of Waldie, the big
13st. Melbourne fireman \. ... came to Sydney with the
intention of carrying the laurels south.
* * . *
Heavy rain on Thursday last caused the post-
ponement of the Davis Cup contests, and when Brookes
met Alexander on Friday the ground was anything but
lively. But both players soon gauged the “deadness”
of the returns, and some high-class tennis resulted.
Brookes found himself quickest, and scored four games
of the first set before the American got moving ; hut when
the latter did start he kept on and won the first set by
seven games to five. Brookes seemed a trifle rattled, but
pulled himself together, and each won his service till the
second set showed seven games all. After that the Aus-
tralian, firing in some fierce volleys, won Alexander’s
service and then he sent in some of those low, deadly
serves in return, and carried the set at nine to seven.
The next he gained easily by Six games to two, but
in the succeeding one the American, knowing he had
to win or lose the match, spent his last ounce in the last
game, and won it only when “vantage server” had been
called thrice—six to four. The effort had killed him, and
though he fought the deciding set gamely, Brookes ran
out comfortably at six to three. First point to Australia.
Followed the collision of Wright and Wilding. The
Maorilander started well, and collared the first set by six
to three, but once Wright got going the other, seemed to
lose confidence. A risky but-, if successful, a demoralising 1
answer to the American’s lobs and drop shots would have
been the smash, yet Wilding hardly attempted it. Wright
got the next three sets—7-5, 6-3, 6-1, and made honors
easy.
The Doubles, on Saturday, brought a packed
house—worth about £4so—including, among others,
Thomas Adolphus, who naturally gassed about the
archaic days when he used to play tennis. The winners
of the Doubles would have a big lien on the Cup, and the
varyino- styles of four players naturally go to make a
prettier game than when two are tossing, lobbing or
driving. As play progressed it became evident that
Brookes was a trifle off color ; his serving lacked its usual
devil, and he double-faulted three times. Yet Wright
was worse ; it was well on in the third set before he found
himself, and when he did his mate failed him. Those low
drives that exactly clear the net and skim away to just in-
side the back line carried either too much or too little force
—either went out of the boundary or into the net. Yet
now and again Alexander would serve those marvellous
balls that shoot straight from his racket to the inside
line and then into the hands of the boy in the corner—no
striker could take them. The play all round was high-
class and the rallies were brilliant. The first set went to
Australia by six to four ; the next by six to two. Then
Brookes began to go off while Wright came on. The
visitors got to “vantage striker” four times in the last
game of the next set ere Brookes dropped a low
return an inch too short. “ Wright and Alexander
win: Seven games to five.” The next set saw the
two with their backs to the wall. There was little smash-
ing but much lobbing of high tosses with a twist on the
ball. Time and again Brookes would place these gently
in the net, or Wilding drive them a trifle too low.
“ Six games to two, Wright and Alexander. Two sets
all ” was the record as the final began. There was a
trifle of clapping at a hot rally or two, but a tense
silence fell as the umpire called “ Two games to love
—Wright and Alexander lead.” Then Wilding rose
to the occasion, and played as he had not done
before. By pretty placing, by fierce smashes,
by low drives barelv dear of the net and
barely inside the ground he won the next two games. To
“three all” it went; to “four all”; to “five games to
f our _Brookes and Wilding lead”; then Brookes took
service, and the tally ran Love—ls ; 15 all; 30—15 ; 40—
15 • 40—30 ; deuce ; vantage server ” ; and, as Alexander
sent back a low drive of Wilding’s far beyond the back
line—“ Game to Brookes and Wilding ; six games to four.
Three sets to two,” and the packed thousands broke into
such cheering as no game of tennis has hitherto evoked
in the Commonwealth.
Monday saw the alternate singles—Wright v.
Brookes and Wilding v. Alexander. In the Wright-
Brookes match the Australian won the toss and the first
two games by sound though unsensational tennis. Then
he struck form. His services were unplayable. Wright
tried them every way—driving, lobbing, cutting—but
failed always. In 10 minutes Brookes had a love set to
his credit. ' Brookes took the first game of the next set
on his service ; and then Wright won a game-his first.
The score went to 4-3 with Brookes ahead. Once more
the Australian was playing at the top of his form. He
won his fifth game off Wright’s service; Within a few
minutes he took the sixth and the set. Two—love in sets
and Brookes in the lead.
The score was four games all in the third set,
with Wilding love and Brookes 40 in the ninth game (and
the latter to serve), when the American suddenly rose up
and started to do things. By smashing services and
deadly net play he won the two succeeding games and
the third qet. Brookes tired palpably. His old infalli-
bility vanished. In the fourth set he never had a real
hope and Wright won it from him by six games to two.
Then came the fifth and last set. Wright won game after
trame with consummate ease and skill. The score stood
at four to one-Wright ahead. At this stage, Brookes,
ill exhausted and, seemingly, hopelessly beaten, rallied
himself for a final effort. The most exciting tennis
that has been seen in Australia followed. The score went
to six all. The spectators forgot temporarily that they
were not at a prize-fight, and stood on the seats and
waved and yelled directions to the players. Amidst
frantic cheers, Brookes won Wrights service and led
rom him by seven to six. Wright won the next game
seven all. Again Wright won ; and in the next game
Brookes equalised matters. The score was ten—nine,
with Brookes leading, when the American began to forge
ahead in a manner not to be denied. After two and a
half hours of strenuous play the score stood at twelve-
ten in favor of Wright, the three last games having been
won by him out of hand.
An altogether different display was the
Wilding-Alexander contest. It lasted but an hour.
The Maorilander, hitting with mighty force from the
back line and serving a hurricane, won his three sets off
the reel. An analysis gives the best idea of his perform-
ance :
First Set.
Wilding : 4,5, 4,3, 4,2, 4,2, 4—32 (6).
Alexander : 1,3, 1,5, 1,4, 2,4, o—2l (3).
Second Set.
Wilding :6,8,3,4,3,4, 1,4, 2, 4—39 (6).
Alexander : 4,6, 5,2, 5,1, 4,0, 4, 2 33 (4)
Third Set.
Wilding :4,4,4,4, 7,4, 4—31 (6)
Alexander : 1,0, 1,1, 9,0, I—l 31 —13 (1).
And so the Davis Cup of 1908 stays in hemi-
sphere. Nor is there any sign of a pair capable of deport-
ing it to older climes.
Cricket in Sydney on Saturday last was made
somewhat memorable by the unexpected return to
form of some of the old brigade, who had begun to look
uncommonly like hasbeens. Victor Trutnper, against the
somewhat decadent Burwood crowd, managed to smack
up 128 and M. A. Noble came out of his shell and s Ptead
himself to the extent of 83. It was about time both
these worthies did something to justify their stay in first-
grade cricket. The Rev. E. F. Waddy-imagining, no
doubt, that the ball was Satan—smote up 91, and carried
his bat triumphantly when the light gave out. Alto-
gether it was a sort of resurrection day.
If appearances go for anything, and they do
sometimes, Middle Harbor is in for a dog-walloping from
Petersham. Owing mostly to the deadly bowling of a.
gentleman appropriately named Rough, who took six
wickets for 38 runs, Middle Harbor vanished for 97, and
at the drawing of the stumps Petersham had knocked up
215 for the loss of six wickets. Of this heavy score W.
Farmsworth made 81 and P. Newton 43 ; and, as said
before, the outlook for Middle Harbor is gloomy. Another
promised debacle is the Sydney versus Central Cumber-
land engagement. Sydney, with four ducks in its team,
left for 150, Cranney having taken five of its wickets for
18 runs. Central Cumberland then got going, and at
close of play had registered 172 for the loss of four
wickets. Owing to the unexpected upheaval of Trumper
and Noble, assisted by Carty, who made 51, Pad-
dington astonished itself and the onlookers by making
the (for it) colossal score of 399, and keeping
possession of the wickets for the whole afternoon. Gordon,
the district which labors under the weight of haying
returned Wade to Parliament, also had an outbreak of
heavy scoring. G. Jordan made 100, and lie was backed
up by 83 from Macartney and 61 from A. C. Maclean, so
Gordon finished with 354 against Redfern. The latter
at the end of the day had made 10 without losing a
wicket. Waverley received Balmain and heaped up 26.3,
of which 0. Gregory made 68, A. C. K. Mackenzie 40,
C Lloyd 40, and T. Howard 42. Balmain, undismayed,
started cheerfully enough, and wiped 32. off the deficit
without losing any sticks. At University Oval, the
Collegians made 253 against Nor.th Sydney, E. N. 13.
Docker being top scorer with 61 to liis credit. North
Sydney lost one wicket for 10 runs. Other good
bowline feats were the taking of two wickets for nine and
17 runs respectively by Law and Unsworth, playing’ for
Petersham against the apparently-doomed Middle Harbor
crowd Folkard, of Balmain, took the last three Waver-
ley wickets for four runs, but his previous performance
reduced his average to three for SS. The last four Waver-
ley wickets yielded only six runs, which was a disastrous
tail fora team which accumulated 263 for the innings.
North Melbourne had the ecstasy of walloping
mighty Melbourne in the local pennant cricket last
Saturday, the margin being 21 in favor of North on
the first innings. P’ran similarly defeated Carlton by
25 and South Melbourne dittoed Fitzroy with 19 runs
in’hand. A closely-contested argument between Col-
lingwood and Richmond resulted in the latter claim-
ing superiority by four runs on the first nits.
Essendon, which ' seems to be anaemic in both
departments of the game, was beaten outright by North-
cote by 126. As for East Melbourne v. St. Kilda, it was
a memorable affair for the seasiders. East, resuming
with two for 128, carried its score to 251 for four wickets
(Carroll contributing 91 and Laver 75 not out), and de-
clared itself closed, leaving Saints 110 to get to avoid a
one-innings defeat. Extraordinarily enough, however,
Saints could only manage a total of 51, which gave East a
victory by an innings and 59. For the saintly ones re-
markable collapse under good conditions, Collins (five for
25) and Parsons (five for seven) were responsible. Parsons
full bowling record read : 29 balls, two maidens, seven
runs, five wickets ; so he seems to be a dangerous person
and worth watching.
* * *
N.S.W. selection committee has picked two
State teams to battle in inter-State cricket. In the first
team (to play S. A. and Victoria) only one new man gets a
Place-Emery, of Redfern. The other team goes to Bris-
bane, and is mostly a bundle of promising colts. And
there are so many good young players about just now
that it would be quite possible to pick a third N.S.W.
team, every member of which would have a good show on
paper. Bananaland cricket, by the way, is also on the
upgrade. As an instance, North Brisbane, playing
against Toombul, recently scored 404 for four wickets.
* * * *
Maoriland is thirsting to do battle with a full-
blown Australian XI., and the M.L. Cricket Council pro-
poses to ask the Australian Board of Control to send
along its best team that the same may be annihilated.
Whatever the Sydney Prince Alfred Yacht
Club does it does with all its heart and soul, and on
Saturday' last it waded in and crowded no less than three
races into one brief afternoon, and thereby got its spec-
tators tied in a knot and hopelessly at sea as to what was
which and the other thing. Still, it wasn tso difficult as
it sounds, as there were only three boats in the over-
-10-metre class, and of those below only Petrel, Heather and
Fleetwing competed. The other race was for cruisers,
and eight faced the starter. The 10-metre championship
was contested by the Awanui, Rawhiti, and good old
Thelma, which was on scratch and conceding Rawhiti
4min. 7sec., and Awanui, the flyer, 9min. 37sec. The
wind was a puny S.E. affair, and suited the beautiful
Awanui excellently. Messrs. Saxton and Brockhoff sailed
Awanui and Rawhiti respectively, while Thelma was
handled by her creator, Mr. Walter Reeks. But the
ancient boat had never a show in the light wind, so the
Awanui led from Manly, followed by the Rawhiti, with
Thelma last. . . .
Petrel, Heather and Fleetwing got quite a lot
of excitement out of the straggling breeze Petrel
slipped to the front and led to Manly, where Fleetwing
got round first, and Heather was over two minutes behind
the second. Then Petrel began to overhaul Meetwing,
and Heather crept closer and closer, till at the adjust-
ment of the times Petrel staggered in first, Heather
second and Fleet wing third, only 30sec. between the fiist
and third. A fine finish. # „
Sydney Sailing Club’s handicap brought out 18
starters, but the race almost immediately resolved itself
into a duel between a great white-winged monster called
Zanita and the trim little Pheasant. With an enormous
spread of canvas Zanita left the fleet behind and beat
Pheasant by 70sec. But the real interest of the
race was the struggle between Eileen and Aus-
tralian. Neither of them had any chance of winning
the race in the ridiculous breeze Providence had laid on
bat everyone wanted to see if Eileen could repeat the
defeat of Australian. They were both oni scratch, but
at the Lightship Eileen had a lead of Bsec. Running from
the Lightship to Clark Island, the fleet made a wonderful
display of canvas, with ringtails soaring over the lot.
Australian made some brave spurts as though driven by
invisible machinery, but never managed to get quite up
to Eileen, and in the end Eileen finished fourth, while
Australian was sixth, 16see. behind its rival.
The interest in the Webb-Arnst struggle for the
sculling’ championship is being mos'c skilfully flogged up.
A week.ago we were informed that Arnst had lost all his
faulty mannerisms and was pulling with the automatic
grace of a mechanical masterpiece. Webb, on the other
side, had burned his hand. Now we are informed that
Webb’s paw is better and will not affect his sculling in
any way, but with attempts at speed Arnst has lapsed
into all his bad ways, rolling hideously and
sitting lopsided!} - . And the flogging is P*o-
ducing the effect desired. Hotels have_ opened
their bed-plans and are being rushed. Special trains
connecting with express steamers from the South Island
are being arranged for, and Wanganui is looking forward
to a burst which will eclipse all previous records. What
will happen to Webb, who is reported to be better than
ever before and sculling faster and more beautifully than
at any previous period, only the gods and little fishes
know. His friends gave him a house and started a bank
account for him on the occasion of lbs return with the
championship ; but if he keeps the championship in
Wanganui for yet another term they will probably tear
him to pieces so that each 1 man may have a bit as a
memento. With an excitable people like the Wan-
ganuites anything is possible.
How has the glory of the Austral Wheel Race
slumped ! At one time the near approach of that affair
meant a regular exodus from N.S. W. and the other States,
but to-day the departures can be numbered on the fingers.
George Horder, the N.S.W. State champion, is not going
to compete, and the best showing on behalf of
N.S.W will probably be put up by P. J. Gas-
coigne. The chief feature of the Austral meeting
will be the descent from a height of (1000 ft.
of parachutist Alphonse Stewart. Stewart will be
remembered as the man who, last January, descended
safely from a height of some thousands of feet on to a
tombstone, and broke his leg by falling from the top of
the mural block. If ever there was a straight tip, it was
that anti-climax, and now Stewart will put it to the test
by dropping from a height of 6000 ft. How in thunder he
will know when he has risen 6000 ft., or how he can
guarantee being in sight of Melbourne Cricket Ground
when he has got that high, only Stewart and his father
can tell.
* * * *
The North Illawarra (N.S.W.) Council having
relented, and withdrawn its promise to prosecute cyclists
for furious riding through its territory, the Nowra to
Sydney road bicycle race duly eventuated on Saturday
last, and was won by a dark horse in the person of A. H.
Darley. The road is a severe one, and of the 70 acceptors,
20 scratched—most of them upon getting a know-
ledge of the kind of country’ the race was to
be held over. George Horder, still suffering from
the effects of a bad fall, and Hagnev, whose chronic
complaint of broken collarbone still has him in its grip,
were, of course, among the non-starters, and the result
was that Mark Robinson, winner of two Goulburn to
Sydney struggles, was the last man to light out for home
arid mother. A. H. Harley was on the 48min. mark, and
was the 16th man to start. That was the last the men
who were behind saw of him, as he just romped right
away, cut down his field, and came in not only winner
but maker of the fastest time. He has competed in
numberless other races, and never before did he do any-
thing to justify an idea that he would make such a clean
break as this. He took the lead before the journey was
half completed, and stayed there till the end. The
runner-up was F. O. Powys, who was on the 42min. mark,
and the third place was filled by VV. 11. Williams, who had
38min. start.
Maoriland gave footballer W. J. Wallace a fine
bust-up and a heavily-laden purse of sovereigns at Wel-
lington, the other day, as a well-earned send-off into re-
tirement. An attendance of 2000 turned out to make
the noise, and Wallace, who has represented Maoriland
for 18 years in football in almost every land where Rugby
is played, appeared to find it very much harder to play
the game in the hall than in the open field before a
host of 30,000 barrackers. In a summary of his experi-
ences Wallace reckoned that he had spent 2J years of his
life wandering about kicking the ball and being kicked
himself, and often maimed when the kicking was overdone.
It looks as if the days of the Caulfield (Vic.)
racecourse were numbered. For over a year now certain
strenuous battlers, who mostly belong to the Glen
Huntly Progress Association, have been trying to g - et it
abolished. They sav the paddock is like a swamp in the
middle of the suburb ; everybody has to go round, and
all settlement on the far side is blocked. The land is
public property, and was originally reserved for “ racing
purposes and a public recreation ground and park.” The
Y.A.T.C. at present pays £125 yearly in rates; but if
the 134 acres were cut up—3o acres being reserved for a
cricket ground, etc.—it is computed that the rates would
equal at least £2OOO per annum. Still, in spite of the
prospect of increased rates, the Caulfield Council doesn’t
back up the “ battlers” aforesaid, and lately decided that
“ it was not advisable to interfere with the racecourse.”
But the agitation goes on ; and, as Bent won’t always be
Premier, the club, if it is wise, will begin to hunt up
another paddock a little further out.
S'. A. Tattersall’s has just had to decide a new
pointin “accumulators.” “One person entrusted another
with the task of putting £1 on Glance ” (thus is it deli-
cately worded ;in S.A., all betting is illegal except per
totalisator on a racecourse). If Glance.won, all was to
go on Lockwing, and then all on Lord Euston. Glance
ran second, but paid a dividend, under the custom now
universal in S. A., when 10 or more start in a race ; the
other two won. Should the backer collect ? Glance had
not “ won ”; but she won something, which the backer,
if present, could have re-invested on the subsequent
winners. The verdict was that the person who was “ en-
trusted with the task ” must pay up.
The balance-sheet of the Sydney Cricket
Ground Trustees was the real sporting event in Sydney
last week. The Trustees gathered in, during the 12
months, £lo,67B—made up principally of members’ sub-
scriptions, £6471 ; cricket revenue, £1697 ; bar rights,
£1135 ; and proceeds of football, £904. The expenditure,
all told, ran into £5562 ; so, on the working of the year,
the Trustees stacked together a clear profit of £5116.
The visit of the English cricket team inflated the figures
by £1322 ; but still there seems to be too heavy a charge
levied on the sporting bodies for the use of the enclosure.
The Trust ended its financial year (September 30) with a
mighty hoarded up credit balance of £9945. It is small
wonder that there are many branches of sport that have
to live on a mere pittance when the boss octopus winds
its tentacles round all this money.
* * * *
Dunlop tyres had a day’s outing in the Nowra
to Sydney bike run. Harley, the winner and fastest time
man, used them, and so did Powys, the second man.
Another clear case of cause and effect.*
A LIBEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the opening of the new bowling green at Glenferrie
(Vic.), Chief Justice Madden said: “In regard to bowls,
he would ask the young contestants why they did not
leave the game to their elders, and go in for another
game of a pleasant character —that of love-making.
Their ground would, no doubt, be the convincing place
of many happv recreations that would be life-long. He
would be delighted to find the younger ones picking out
the plums, leaving the pudding of bowls to the old
Adams —those to whom nothing but bowling wasleft.”
Melbourne Press Item.
Away, young man ! your time has not yet come
To swish the frisky bowl along the lawn,
Your joints are not yet growing stiff and numb —
You still retain your muscle and your brawn.
Away ! away ! to some more health}' dime —
Fly swiftly from these antiquated souls
Who while away the best part of their time
At the immortal, hoary game of bowls.
’Tis not for you to hit the blessed “jack,”
And say “ Hooray ! ” and “ Come and have a nip ! ‘
The ancients give you evil looks and black,
And, all in silence, hand you straight the tip
To “do a get” to where the children play
And nurse-girls lure with sly, inviting glances
To where the nymph, in bathing dress so gay,
In wild abandon through the white surf prances ;
And there to try the dear old game—sweethearting—
With all its sorrows and its little blisses,
Its moonlight strolls ; its tender hours of parting,
When all the air’s alive with honeyed kisses.
Your fate’s proclaimed. Go chase the shafts of Cupid !
Leap with some girl like two young frisky foals.
And when you’re very old and bent and stupid
Come back, and play the noble game of bowls 1
VIC.
BURNETT GRAY.


ftUGELM ANN’S
: - "
©
ss
v
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St„ MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The SUMMER is here, and with it has come the SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Med low Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
1 29 Katoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE ,
38 Castlereagti Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
aV
THIN PEOPLE.
THERE is now no reason why every man or woman should
not acquire or regain a Perfect Figure. If you want
to add flesh, be made plump and rosy, gain weight,
strength and beauty, send for a Free Trial Treatment of
the “ Miracula” Nerve Food and Flesh Developer.
This newly-discovered Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing
Agent and Flesh Builder. It will seoa put your nerves
right, tone up your digestive organs; and the alteration in you
will astonish yourself and friends. Would you like to have
perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all
scragginess ? You can easily obtain this blessing if you
write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps to pay postage
on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
!>■
London Specialities Agency, Dept. At 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
HORSE GAGS, 45/-,
Complete with Bridle.
CORRESPONDENCE PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
LATEST VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
IN STOCK.
The DONALD ROSS
Anti-Abortion Outfit,
20/-
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
AND PREPARATIONS
The DONALD ROSS
Emaseulaf.or, 63/-,
HUNDREDS SOLD.
DONALD ROSS & CO. LTD.
Angel Place, off 127 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The DONALD ROSS
Mange Treatment, 8/S
per course. Cure Ab-
solutely Guaranteed.
ă
The Cycle for the Average Man !
We have Cycles in all weights, from the heavy roadster to the
path racer, but the Cycle we have sold by the hundred for
every-day use is the
B. & B. Model 3 Cycle at £ll.
We fit it with first-class tyres, and guarantee it a year. With
Free Wheel and Back Rim Brake or Coaster Hub, 20s. extra.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-building' 234 Pitt Street and 130-132
House in the State, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SPECIAL SUMMER CRUISE TO THE
WEST COAST SOUNDS of New Zealand
THE MAGNIFICENT STEAMER WAIKARE will leave Dunedin on Saturday,
16th January, for a cruise amongst the beautiful West Coast Sounds of New Zealand, passing
about TWELVE DAYS amidst scenery surpassing even the famous Fjords of Norway.
Extra time will be allowed in Milford Sound to enable tourists to visit the SUTHERLAND FALLS (1904 ft).,
the highest in the World.
The ULIMAROA, leaving Sydney on the 9th January, and the turbine steamer
MAHENO, from Melbourne on the 6th January, will connect with the WAIKARE
in Dunedin. For Leaflets and Full Particulars apply
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD., 259 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
(1
Razor, Sir ? ” “ Yes, A METROPOLE.”
To l>e had only at Hotel Metropole Hairdress-
ing Saloon. Price 10/6 ; Pair in Case, 21/-;
Metropole Strop, 7/6 (all guaranteed) post
free. Gentlemen visiting town can be made
look toney in the above saloon. Facial Massage
a speciality. C. P. MOORE,
65 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
■ *
'WcWi
Bitten by a Snake.
Professor P. W. Stevenson, the well-known teacher of
Jiu .Titsu, was bitten on the left arm just above the
wrist, on Sunday afternoon, by a green whip snake, near
Lithgow. He was in one of the gullies outside the town
hunting for rabbits, and in one part had to separate the
brambles in order to get through. He felt a sting on
the arm, but, thinking he had touched a thorn, took no
notice of it until he saw, after getting through the
brambles, a snake which measured about 18in. in length
fastened to him. He cut the wound with his knife and
hastened back to the town. His arm and hand swelled
considerably ; but after treatment by a local chemist the
swelling went down, and this afternoon he felt no ill
effects from the bite. The snake got away. The pro-
fessor was bitten on the same arm by a snake in Tas-
mania a few years ago, and it took much time and
expense before the wound thoroughly healed.
=9
JIU JITSU.
96 Queen-street, Woollahra.
7/12/’O6.
MESSRS. FISHER & CO.,
Dear Sirs,—Vim, Elasticity, and Nerve Power are absolute essentials lor teacher
of Jiu Jitsu and Professor of Physical Culture.
Both myself and pupils find FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE unrivalled as a tonic
to invigorate the wholehuman system. To combat the after and weakening effects
of influenza, I have found FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE invaluable to set me up good
and strong. I write the above to benefit my fellows, voluntarily, without any
monetary consideration whatever, and confirm the same on oath.
I believe FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE to be one of the Finest Medicines on
Prof. P. W. STEVENSON,
Physical Culture and Jiu Jitsu Instructor to the Police of N. S. Wales, Victoria, and
Queensland.
Declared before me on oath.
LEONARD GABRIEL, J.P.
The MOST FAMOUS TONIC for Ner-
vousness , Indigestion, Headache,
Neuralgia & Muscular Rheumatism.
Five Drops in Water After Meals is the
Greatest Aid to DIGESTION Known.
If you pay £5 per bottle you cannot get a more speedy Tonic thap
Fisher’s Phospherine.
POST FREE.
All Chemists, !/=> ; four times the quantity, 2/6.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS—
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 George Street, Sydney.
“ FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE ” is sold outside of New South Wales
under the name of “ FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC.” Therefore
always ask for “FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC.” At all Chemists
in the Commonwealth.
The Plum’s Velvet Edge
The finer the steel, the more perfect the shaving- edge, and the
PLUM RAZOR, having a specially-ground blade of Silver Steel,
has a velvet edge that glides over the face and shaves without
pulling. The PLUM is used largely by barbers.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6 Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/- Pair in Handsome Case,3o/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d All the above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
PRICE IQO
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
GOD’S GOOD WOMAN
E
tern
;::.L
Mrs. Smith, the Avenue, Wool-
lahra, says :—“ I am a mother after
13 years’ misery. Dr. IDA CARL-
SON'S Treatment cured me. She
is God’s good woman.”
WHY SUFFER. ?
These Remedies and Treatment get
to the Root of Female Ailments,
because they deal with them Con-
stitutionally' and Locally'. Send 2d. Stamp for Free
Book. BRITISH DRUG CO., E.S. Bank, George and
King Streets, SYDNEY.
PATEN 73
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
A.
POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
MELBOURNE CRICKET GROUND,
sth and 12th December.
AUSTRAL Wheel Race
AND
Sensational Balloon Ascents.
Thrilling Parachute Descents. World’s Most Daring' Aeronauts.
Admission- Also BRILLIANT BAND PERFORMANCE by THE COLLINGWOOD CITIZENS CONTEST BAND.
only.
ms
The Band will play the TEST PIECES that won them the CHAMPIONSHIP
at the recent BALLARAT COMPETITIONS. Robt. McCuixagh, Secretary.


FROM NOW ON TO XMAS
You 11 probably need something that comes from our store. Here are some suggestions
that tell of practically useful ar d thoroughly good things for gifts for every member of
the family. LET US URGE UPON ALL TO BUY EARLY.
ą
SHAVING STAND, polished
Nickel, comprising' Hot-water
Bowl, Puff, Shaving Brush,
and Receptacle for 2 Razors,
20/- (Razors not included.)
Bengal and Royal Razors, from
2/6 to 15/.
FREE
CHRISTMAS
CATALOGUE.
Write for a copy to-
day. It contains over
3000 illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewel-
lery, Silverplate, Lea-
ther and Optical Goods,
and will greatly assist
you in selecting your
Xmas Gifts. Sent Post
Free on request.
RAPID-FOCUSSING FIELD or MARINE GLASSES,
Morocco Leather covered, achromatic lenses, large
field, sharp definition, leather sling and case, £2.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, to £lO.
DO YOUR
SHOPPING
BY POST.
Our Up-to-date Mail
Order Department en-
ables you to do your
shopping by post satis-
factorily, without the
expense of a trip to
Sydney. All Goods
sent, Carriage Free, to
any address in Aus-
tralasia, with the excep-
tion of Clocks and
Chinaware.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco leather, Nickel
Mounts and Frame, Leather-lined, Silk-
sewn, 14/0- Other styles, 15/6, 17/(1,
18/6, 20/, 25/.
Chatelaine SPEC-
TACLE CASE, pure
Silver-plated, richly
embossed, 10/6
Other styles, 10/6
12/6, 15/.
SMOKER’S CABINET, Polished Oak Pure Silver-
plated Mounts and Shield, Patent Roller Pop, Cigar
and Cigarette Divisions, 25 /• Other styles, 22/6,
25/, 27/6, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OPERA GLASSES, Morocco
Leather-covered, Black Enamel-
led Frames with Leather Case,
15/- Other styles, 10/6, 17/6,
21/, 25/, 30/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET SET, comprising Hair Brush, Mirror,
Comb, and Cloth Brush, Nickel-mounted, Ebonised
Wood Backs, in Silk-lined Case, 42/6- Other
Styles, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MUSIC FOLIO, Polished Grained Leather, Sultan
Green and Black, Nicely Finished with Strap, Nickel
Catch, 5/0- Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING FOLIO, Red or Black Polished Leather,
fitted with Every Convenience, including Spaces for 2
Photos, 25 /• Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 16/, 20/, 25/,
to 76/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO JAR and PIPE RACK, Nickel-mounted,
Crystal Glass Jar, Polished Cedar Base, JJO/•
Other styles, 15/6, 17/6, 20/, 27/6.
A. SAUNDEItS.
POCKET BOOK, Black Morocco Leather, Silk-
lined, Sterling Silver Mounts and Lock, 12/0-
Other styles, 5/6,. 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
CHAIN PURSES ARE POPULAR.
For this season Fashion has again decreed for the
popular Chain Purses. Illustrated are two favourite
designs. We have, without doubt, the finest assort-
ment of leather goods in Australasia, including Chain
Purses and Peggy Bags in all the newest shapes,
shades, and leathers, special illustrated list sent post
EREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ CHAIN PURSE, Mo-
rocco or Seal Leather, Pure Silver
Mounts and Lock, Metal Chain,
8/G. Other styles, with Silver
Mounts and Chain, 10/6, 12/6, 15/,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ CHAIN PURSE,
Polished Crocodile Leather, Extra
Heavy Sterling Silver Mounts and
Chain, 18/6- Other styles, 17/6,
21/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CLOTH BRUSH,
Nickel Mounted,
Pine Bristles,
6/6; Hat Brush,
7/6-
TOILET TABLE SET, comprising Hair Brush,
Cloth and Hat Brush, Comb, Ebonised Wood Backs,
Nickel-mounted, Crystal Glass Base, 45/- Other
styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/, 55/, 60/, 65/, 70/.
AM* 9
ilMßHfflHft
.
“DEVONSHIRE” VANITY BAG, Morocco Leather,
fitted with Puff Mirror and Memo. Tablet, Nickel
Locks, 12/(i- Higher Grade, 15/6. In Real Cro-
codile, 20/, 25/. With Silver Locks, 25/.
CIGAR CASE and POCKET
BOOK combined, Straight-grained
Roan Leather, Pure Silver-mount-
ed, 12/6. With Shield Only,
10/6; Plain, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOURISTS’ DRINKING CUPS,
Solid Nickel Silver, Gilt-lined, in
nests of 3, in Pig-skin Case, 12/6-
In nests of 5, 17/6.
NICKEL SHAVING STAND,
Swing Mirror, Crystal Glass
Base, Fine-quality Shaving
Brush, 22 /,(}■ Other styles,
10/6, 17/6, 21/, 25/, 30/,' 33/,
40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S TRAVELLING ROLL, fitted with every
convenience, Solid Leather Roll, 12/6; Ladies’,
10/6- Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 21/, 25/, 30/,
35/, to £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MILITARY HAIR
BRUSH, Nickel-
mounted, Fine Brist-
les, Ebonised Wood
Rack, 8/6- Other
styles, 5/6, 6/6, 8/6,
10/6.
-IV.
TOBACCO
Shield, Finest
3/6, 5/6, 6/6,
A. SAUNDERS.
POUCH, Real Buckskin, Pure Silver
Rubber Lining, 4/6- Other styles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS. , ?
GENT.’S DRESSING CASE, Best Quality Fitting
Nickel-mounted, Leather-lined, Seal Leather Gas
65/- Oth'er styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/. '
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, '
817 George=street, '
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.W.


MM
Ti 1/
W
V J
<3,
frt
<r=-^
c—t
01
t'-
*
HIS VERY OWN
PHOTOGRAPH!
The most acceptable of all CHRISTMAS
PRESENTS, if the one “ She ” in all the
world takes it. Or, the other way about.
And the surest way to get it “ real good ” is to
Take it with a Kodak
We have just landed a new shipment of KODAKS,
all sizes and patterns.
Prices, from ss. to Seven Guineas.
Also the New Model PR EM OS, adapted in all sizes
to all classes of work, either with Plates or Films.
Prices, from One Guinea to £ls*
No Dark Room necessary. Daylight Development
with Kodaks and Premos.
SEND FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE—FREE.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD
Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “The Block,” 284 Collins Street. Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
CONSTIPATION, RHEUMATISM & COUT
Eradicated by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
Prof. I. N. Love, M.D.
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical
Diseases, Marion-Sims College of Medicine,
and College of Physicians and Surgeons),
wrote :
“ The great surgeon, Professor Lawson
Tait, M.D., himself a sufferer from a gouty
diathesis, for years found Kutnow’s Powder
of great value to himself personally and in
his practice. Kutnow’s Powder stimulates
the activity of the bowels and kidneys. It
cleanses the bowels, acts as a diluent, and
flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory
way. Thorough elimination is salvation,
and there is no better eliminator than
Kutnow’s Powder. I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
There is only One Genuine Kutnow’s
Powder; it can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the World. See that
the fac-simile signature, “S. Xutnow
and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade
mark, “ Hirscliensprung', or Deer
Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You
then get
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
Hospital Nurse
WRITES :
“94 West bourne Park Road,
“ Bayswater, W.,
“ 27th August > 1907.
“ Sirs, —A short time ago you sent
me a bottle of Kutnow's Powder. /
write to say that I have found it
extremely beneficial in cases of
constipation, also hemorrhoids.
Some of my patients have used
Kutnow's for rheumatism , and they
also testify to its excellent qualities.
11 Yours Indy ,
“ISABEL A. MUDD , C.M.8.,
“ Queen Charlotte’s Hospital.”
J. A. ASHTON, Esq.,
WRITES :
“ Dukinfield, Cheshire,
“ 29th August, 1907.
“Dear Sirs, —I regret to state that my
wife has heen laid up for over six weeks now.
Our trouble at the commencement of the
illness was the task of removing constipation.
I suggested that, as your preparation was
always effective in ordinary times, she should
be allowed to have it. The doctor con-
sented, and I am pleased the difficulty has
been removed. lam delighted to inform you
of this ; it has relieved me considerably at
this anxious time.—Yours faithfully,
“J. A. ASHTON, A.N.S.A., F.I.P.S/’
(3rd ROYAL IRISH RIFLES)
WRITES :
“ 121 Haring Kade, Scheveningen,
“ Holland, 11th Jan., 1907-
“Gentlemen, —Owing to literary
calls my life is somewhat sedentary,
and', after a hard day’s work I used to
feel fagged and fatigued,, and sleep was
frequently broken and belated. Four
months ago I began to take Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am pleased to state that
I can now work strenuously without
any ill-effect, and sleep follows natur-
ally. Your powder is without doubt
refreshing and invigorating, and an
excellent nerve bracer. —Yours truly,
“ S, K. COWAN,
“(Major 3rd I&cmil Irish Rifles).”
[2


23 DIFFERENT ARTICLES FOB 2/6.
BIG PRIZE PARCELS.
SPECIAL OFFER. REMARKABLE VALUE.
7/- Worth of Goods for 2/6 the Lot.
T AST year m y 2s. 6d. Parcel of 15 Articles met with
DID SATTWAr l TTr>^ eS |P l ? n * se ’ a y d gave such SPLEN-
• A 9??ON» that we have decided to renew
i aga J? t^lls ye *\ r - We are, however, giving
ARTTPTWS T e J viz.. 23 DIFFERENT
ARIICLES, as fisted below, for ONLY 2s. 6d nnst
9d ee en 1 ph 1 Li ,S - )^ aSe t the .BOodsbeing worth from'6d. to
9d. each in any store m Australia. Every article w«
guarantee to be sterling value, and you cannbt nos
sibly be disappointed. As this offer last"for one
month only from date, send Postal Note without'delav
and state whether Gent.’s or Lady’s Parcel is required
If you order them both we will send vou, in addition
? pP f ock .et MIRROR and COMB in Oale worth
!?•- of charge. Our big revised Catalogue of
Novelties, etc., goes to every purchaser as well.
LADY’S PARCEL, 2/6
1 Photo. Pendant, with
Song.
1 Pretty Fruit Brooch.
1 String Pear) Beads.
1 Metallic Photo. Frame
1 Art Wire Expanding
King.
1 Nickel Reversible Pen
and Pencil.
6 Shoe Laces.
1 Fortune-telling F.ish.
1 Novel Jumping Mouse.
1 Splendid Wire Puzzle.
6 Comical Post Cards.
1 Box Pharaoh's Serpent’s
Eggs.
1 Book Unique Puzzles.
CENT’S PARCEL, 2/6
1 Wallet and Note Book.
1 Improved Hat Guard.
T Easy-fix Stud
1 lie Clip. Can be used
a T , ns i l Button if needed,
o Boot Laces.
1 Imitation Opal Scarf
Pin.
1 Box Serpent’s Bees.
1 New Book Puzzles
I Pack Trick Cards.
6 Comic Post Cards.
1 Pair Reliable Links.
1 Difficult Wire Puzzle.
1 Buttonhole of Pretty
Celluloid Flowers.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter St., Sydney.
MAKE YOUR OWN
AERATED WATERS
with an
“AUSTRAL”
AERATED WATER MACHINE,
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
The Latest Improved “AUSTRAL,”
With Automatic S.vrupihg Attachment.
USED IN OVER tOOO HOTELS IN AUSTRALASIA.
The Original Machines will make
300 doz. Aerated Waters per day.
Requires no Skilled Labor—no Special Bottles.
Aeration superior to any other.
Prices, £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and Full Particulars from the
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Eckersley & Sons,
628 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Queensland Agents :
ELLIOTT & HANCORNE, 113 Queen Street, Brisbane.
West Australian Agents :
WM. SANDOVER & CO., Hay Street, Perth.
South Australian Agents :
EVANS & CO., Linde’s Lane, Adelaide.
â
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is i nf] animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
I which lead to the ears,
' throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDIATOR cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Cane, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Largo Bottles, 25/-.
WHITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney,
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
SANDSTONE DEVELOPMENT GOLD MINING CO.
(No Liability.)
CAPITAL £62,500 in 250,000 Shares of ss. each.
DIRECTORS.
J ‘ B QROT,^E SO K^lgooriie‘' d H e 'D (^RAnNT I n ; q E 'H M ' MI £ C HELL Barristeivat-Law, Sydney; C. P. de JERSEY
, a.r.., r\.ai o oonie ,H. D. BRAUKD, Sydney ;H. St. J. SOMERSET, Mount Morgan, Queensland.
BT 4 n,-T SWm<J ZHGINEERS. MINE MANAGER.
BLACK, BLATCHFORD & GRUT, Kalgoorlie. H . E. WHITFELD, B.E.
SECRETARIES.
H. J. CLAYTON, 8.E., Sandstone, VV.A. ; A, B. S. WHITE, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS.
S. von ARNHEIM, Kalgoorlie ; W. A. FREEMAN, Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
OJ - rj . BANKERS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney; WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK, Sandstone, W.A.
BROKER.
J. E. DUOKER, 135 Pitt Street, Sydney.
tetrisr' *• 6d - on a,iotment - and
NorSaMSS r a®h^f U wS^R:n joi m the ? r ° y \ B > ack Mine on the West and
which is of similar character to the win* tI, ! Range (Hans Irvine) Mine. The Oroya Black Range reef,
from the horizontal into the Sandstone leases which it'entirs' 8 eSt at t . h ® ver ) 7 fla . fc an ft le of from 25 to 30 degrees
workings) at a vertical denth of lKOfr The Nr’nrn, 1 ~J enters at one point (opposite the Oroya Black Range main
block claims. The of fche 9°“P a >W are outcrop claims, the Western being
reef. The workings in the Orova BHct Bonot f J 92 a ? re ?> «* v ' n K a Ien S th of about 4000 ft. along the line of
reef to be persistent over a length of about 3000 feet. and ”* the bandstone Northern leases have already proved the
mined d *P, and va . lues to a depth of 370 feet vertical, there should be
pany’sniain workings’about 65 P OOOtons f of h nrp nf d eaS «? l m n,edia i elyadj ’ oinin! ’ r the 0ro l' a Black Range Com-
smail fraction acres) W h<sdiS: P ; such portion of the leases being only a
of about 2000 tons’pe/nmnth " ThTor’ova n SB ten ' Btam P battery of the latest design, having a capacity
per month, and, working to a grade of about 1 i P v B rp^° mpan i y ’ Wltß , a twenty-stamp battery, is treating 4000 tons
gold to the value of £lO 000 ner month Tt i« JfrtiHin a declared profit of £4OOO per month, recovering
at all events until the canacitv of the r.lmt it atlc .'j >ated tl ?at the Sandstone Company will work to a higher grade,
uncu me capacity of the plant is considerably increased beyond the initial installation. -
The grade of J^in^feis^t 8 U , P f to , tk ®P^ esent been treated at the neighboring Public Battery,
while the grade of the last crusWm'J t ,onS ’ ? 0 " ta ! rilrl - «' old worth £13,935) has averaged 1215.,
“short” ton of 20001 b. It is honed” th n r fche lowest workings, was 2085., equal to about 21oz. to the
grade somewhere between that bein<>-tr Pl tPrt h./th^n on ’y Wlt b ten stamps the ore will be mined to produce a
to date from crushings at the °roya B ack Ra, ' 8 ’ e Gom Pany and that of the average obtained
s P ose of
2500^!*on" di'n nf'thp°v r ® ef to a vertical depth of about 1300 ft., or a depth of about
the Company exists at the lowest whichTh t 0 ° ons t a nt at about 30 degrees. The best ore developed by
Black Range and Oroya Black S r f ef kas be . e . n attacked-viz., about 300 ft. vertical depth. The
**■ w «»»»«
be obEe’d Lom “ 52p!S?C££3fStoL A?stop£!S“ I,orn 1,orn “ tlon 0< ,he Oomp.ny, m,j
Decembw? et the convenience of Western Australian investors, the subscription-list will be kept open till 24th
Sydney, Ist December, 1908.
MODERN MASSAGE
FOR LADIES.
JN your own room the “ Crescent ”
Vibrator allows you to have
improved massage treatment at a
trifling cost.
The “Crescent” is vorked from
your electric light switch or a dry
battery we supply, and is splendid for
lassitude and headaches.
It removes wrinkles and crow’s-feet,
double chin and superfluous flesh, de-
velops the bust and shoulders, and
improves the complexion.
We sell it on a 10-days’ trial and
a year’s guarantee.
Write for our “CRESCENT” BOOKLET TO-DAY.
JERDAN’S
(formerly Osborn h Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
IP
(C
t
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
ǻ
FIELD-GLASSES
WITH
ENHANCED
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
æ
Distance between
Oculars.
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT.
Features
Brilliant
Definition,
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity,
Mechanical
Precision,
, Stability.
, Tropic Proof.
Obtainable
from all
I Opticians.
Increased
distance between Objectives.
NEW MODELS.
CARL ZEISS, JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH-29, Margaret st.,
Regent St., London, England.
New
Catalogue
T 78
Post Free.
ǽ
A BATH is a
NECESSITY-
When you are getting' that
new bath fixed have one of
BEAUTY as well as UTILITY.
. Magnificent Roll Edge .
PORCELAIN ENAMELLED BATHS,
sift. lon<r, that will last a
lifetime, and always retain
. . their snowy whiteness . .
£5/10/=, £6/12/6, £B/8/--each.
Securely Packed and De-
livered to Train or Ship.
The Product of Australian, English, American and
Continental Factories to select from.
ROBERT C. SWAN & C 0„ LTD.,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
TIIE ACETYLENE BURNER HOUSE.
THE CHAMPION DANCER OF THE WORLD
TIM WIMBLEFOOT
Only 1/3 Complete
including delivery
to any address.
Sire •
14 ins.
high.
/T-tf
PERFORMS
JIGS. HORNPIPES.
REELS.
STEP DANCES.
FLIP FLAPS and
BREAKDOWNS,
PERFECT TIME
Wonderful Agility..
Marvellous Heel and!
Toe Work.
A BIG TOY AT
SMALL PRICE |
have only to heat tune for any kind of Step Dance and Tim
JL Nimbiefoot will "shake his legs" in Hie most amazing way.
,'X,. Yo “ ne “«. saw h "«' dancing in your life. The most perfect lima
is preserved and the endless variety to “steps" Tim performs is sun-
prising and far excels the best efforts of the most expert professional
dancers. Everybody admires Tim NimblelooTs remarkable agility and
grace. This clever toy is an unfailing source of amusement for old and
young, grave and gay. It is very strongly made oflwood and there is
YouTh g n. a w° Ut a? 0 gCI OU ! ° f order * even the roughest handling.
You should send for one and enjoy some real fun. Obtainable only from
The Union Company,
299 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE.
New Gure
For Rupture.
New Scientific Appliance, Always a Perfect Fit—
Adjustable to Any Size Person—Easy, Comfort-
able, Never Slips, No Obnoxious Springs or
Pads—Costs Less Than Many Common
Trusses—Made For Men, Women,
and Children.
I Send It on Approval—You Wear It—lf You Are
Not Satisfied, I Refund Your Money—Brings
Immediate Relief to Sufferers.
I have invented a rupture appliance that I can safely
say, hy 30 years’ experience in the rupture business, is the
only one that will absolutely hold the rupture and never
slip, and yet is light, cool, comfortable, conforms to every
movement of the body, without chafing or hurting, and
costs less than many ordinary trusses. There are no
springs or hard, lumpy pads, and yet it holds the rupture .
safely and firmly without pain or inconvenience. I have
put the price so low that any person, rich or poor, can .
buy, and I absolutely guarantee it.
C. E. BROOKS, The Inventor.
I make it to your order—send it to you—
you wear it, and if it doesn’t satisfy you
send it back to me and I will refund your
money.— C. E. BROOKS.
That is the fairest proposition ever made by a rupture
specialist. The banks or any responsible citizen in
Marshall will tell you that is the way I do business—
always absolutely fair and square.
For several years my appliance has been used in all
parts of America, with a wonderful record of success. It
has come to be recognised as the only sure, unfailing’ re-
lief from all the tortures of rupture, and the most reliable
method of cure. Thousands of reputable, honest, thank-
ful men and women testify to the great good the Brooks’
Rupture Appliance has done them. Since its introduction
into England, my appliance has brought perfect relief
and comfort to many who had suffered for years from
rupture.
Mr. John Jones, Caldcote Road, Hartshill,
Nr. Athestone, Warwickshire, writes us as.
follows:
Hartshill, July 11, 1907.
Mr. Brooks, Sir:—Just a line to sav I received your -
appliance quite safe and am very much pleased with;
it. I am sure it will give satisfaction, and I find it is;
a great benefit when working, as it gives ease and.
comfort. I am also able to digest my food so muchi
better. You can make what use you like of this;
letter as I am sure I will tell anyone who suffers as E
have. Thanking you very much for vour kindness,
I remain, Yours truly, JOHN JONES.
A gentleman from Blackpool, whose name
we will furnish on application, has also found
relief. He says :
Blackpool, May 12, 1908-
Dear Sir :—I received the appliance on the Ist inst.,
and am very pleased with it. It adapts itself to the
body in a marvellous manner and serves its purpose
perfectly. I have never felt so safe or so comfort-
able before since I was ruptured. I cycle and take a
lot of exercise, but the cushion always stays in place,
whatever position I get in. lam,
Yours truly, W. T. S.
If you have tried most everything else, come to me.
Where others fail, I have my greatest success. Write me
to-day, and I will send you my book on Rupture and its
cure, showing my appliance and giving you prices and
names of people who have tried it and been cured. It
is instant relief when all others fail. Remember I use •
no salves, no harness, no lies. Just a straight business
deal at a reasonable price.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2Jd. postage.
Write your name very plain, and be sure to give your full
address, so there can be no mistake in delivery. Address,
C. E. BROOKS,
7797 Brooks Bldg., Marshall, Mich., U.S.A,


When the N.S.W. Registrar in Bank-
ruptcy consigned Howard Freeman, of the busted
Freeman and Wallace firm, to gaol for seven days
he stated that he did the deed because, from
Freeman’s replies, “ he appeared to be endeavor-
ing to conceal property —in particular, cash.” This
specific mention of cash disperses any idea that
Freeman was suspected of having a terrace of
houses hidden in his tail pocket, or anything like
that.
The very latest development of the alleged
“rights of N.S.W.” was embodied in a recent
letter (signed “Canberra ”) in Sydney Telegraph.
The public is already familiar with the demand
that the site of the Australian capital and the size
of the Federal territory shall be decided by the
Sydney Government, and that it shall control the
Federal city’s water supply, and its railway and
road communications. But “Canberra” struck
the great idea that the State of N.S.W. should
have the sole right to decide on the price to be
paid by the Commonwealth for the private lands
which it must resume in the Federal territory ; as
he put it: —
The valuers ought to be appointed by the State, and
all costs and expenses paid by the Commonwealth.
It is a pity that some one didn’t make a collection
of the dried and stuffed “rights of N.S.W.,” and
■send it to the recent Exhibition in London. It
would have been a notable exhibit, and 6d. extra
•could have been charged for it, the same as for the
Chamber of Horrors. But the man who signed
himself “Canberra” threw in at least one item
of valuable information. He said :—
The authorities ought to fence in with barbed wire and
rabbit netting the area of the Cotter River water catch-
ment and remove all stock and people therefrom. The
mountain glens have been the refuge of starving stock a
decade o’er, which left thousands of dead to pollute the
soil and thence the water.
A cheerful outlook for the Federal city’s drinking
supply !
A Peak Hill (N.S.W.) correspondent tells
The Bulletin that the Bogan River is completely
dry in those parts. For a stretch of eight miles
near the township all the water that is left is in a
few pot-holes. And the Bogan takes its rise in the
same mountain range which sometimes feeds, but
often starves, the Murrumbidgee—the muddy,
rabbit-carcase-infested stream on which it is pro-
posed that the capital city of all Australia should
depend for a water supply.
Legal Notice.
I N THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE, PROBATE,
L DIVORCE, AND ADMIRALTY DIVISION.
(PROBATE.)
To the next of kin (if any) and all persons having or
claiming any interest in the Estate of SAMUEL APPLE-
TON deceased.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has issued citing
you to cause an appearance to be entered for you within
hree months after publication hereof in the Principal
Probate Registry of the Court situate at Somerset House
Strand in the County of Middlesex and acceptor refuse
Letters of Administration (with the Will dated 30th
October 1907 annexed) of all the Estate which by Law
devolves to and vests in the personal representative of
SAMUEL APPLETON late of 64 Chevening Road Kensal
llise.in the County of Middlesex deceased or show cause
why Letters of Administration (with the said Will
annexed) of the'Personal Estate of the said deceased
should not be granted to HENRY POTTS as a creditor of
the said deceased with an intimation that in default of
vour appearance Letters of Administration (with the
said Will annexed as aforesaid) will be granted to the
said HENRY POTTS.
ROBT. A. PRITCHARD,
Registrar.
PARSONS, EVANS & FRANCIS,
Solicitors,
29 Regent Street, London, S.W.
Amusements.
MISS THELMA HANLON’S
CONCERT,
Y.M.C.A. HALL/SYDNEY,
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1908.
TICKETS (RESERVED SEATS 35., GALLERY 25.)
AT NICHOLSON’S. PLAN NOW OPEN.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING at 7.50 sharp.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPARY
(Including MISS BETTY OHLS, MR. ANDREW
HIGGINSON, VICTOR GOURIET, REGINALD
ROBERTS, W. S. PERCY, CLAUDE BANTOCK,
D. B. O’CONNOR, IVY SCOTT, FLORENCE YOUNG
and others), in Lehar’s World Famous Work,
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SHAKESPEARIAN COMEDY SEASON.
THURSDAY, DEC. 3, FRIDAY, DEC. 4,
Last two nights of the taming of the shrew.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 5,
A LIMITED NUMBER OF PERFORMANCES,
TWELETH NIGHT.
MARGARET ANGLIN as VIOLA.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY*
THE NATIONAL OPERA COMPANY,
Under the Direction of Mr. JOHN WREN.
EVERY EVENING AT A QUARTER TO EIGHT,
GOUNOD’S MASTERPIECE,
EAUST.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Popular Opera Prices—ss, 3s, Is.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Harold Ashton and Allan Hamilton.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 5,
Re-appearance after an absence of five years of Australia’s
Greatest Favorite, MAGGIE MOORE,
in conjunction with the distinguished Australian actor,
H. R. ROBERTS,
in Maggie Moore’s
Famous Drama,
PRICES.—3s., 25., Is.
STRUCK OIL.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s. 6d., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
JHE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
“ Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICT O RES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
JIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, &6d Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
Amusements
Tivoli theatre, sydimey.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
GOODFELLOW & GREGSON, Comedians and Dancers.
FRANK and JEN LATONA.
J. W. RICKABY, Burlesque Character Comedian.
MISS HULO HODGSON. MR. HARRY LOWTHER.
THE FOUR MASCOTTS.
MR. TOM DAWSON and GERTIE JOHNS.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Vocalists and Eccentric Dancers.
KATHLEEN GOLDIE. ROCHFORT & HART.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
OSBORN & BROOKS, Comedy Artists.
TED KALMAN, Eccentric Comedian.
BARNARD TROUPE OF MANIKINS.
AMALIA and LEONORA, Equilibristes.
CHRISTOFOLO, Equilibrist Juggler.
GEORGE SORLIE, Baton Spinner and Dancer.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 5,
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT & CO.
in
THE PRISONER OE ZENDA.
JULIUS KNIGHT as RUDOLPH RASSENDYLL.
OLA HUMPHREY as PRINCESS FLAVIA.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ANOTHER ENORMOUS ATTRACTION.
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
THE NIGHT BIRDS OE LONDON.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
p>RINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, DEO. 3, FRIDAY, DEO. i,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE RED MILL.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 5,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
IN
BELLE OE NEW YOBK.
LAST SIX NIGHTS OF SEASON.
Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand. Usual Prices.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Frank Thornton.
Direction of Edwin Gkach.
ENORMOUS and UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS of
FRANK THORNTON
supported by his NEW LONDON COMPANY,
in the Brilliant Three-Act Comedy,
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
FAREWELL FOR EVER TO AUSTRALIA.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s. Booking- Fee, Is.
ALBERT CLARK, Acting Manager.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
HARCOURT BEATTY and MADGE McINTOSH
in Chas. Young’s Powerful Drama,
JIM THE PENMAN.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES ™ E B O fI LL .
ALL THE WORLD'S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
a
V
-Zfier
ARE YOU TOO YOUTHFUL
IN APPEARANCE ?
Capillarine
will alter that in double quick time by producing- on
your face a very full, handsome and soft Moustache that
any man might be proud of.
Price 10/6 Post Free
to any part of
the World.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
Amusements.
WIRTH’S PARK, MELBOURNE
(PRINCES COURT),
Every Evening. Matinees, Weu., Sat., All Holiday’s.
BREAKING AND TRAINING HORSES,
by PHILIP VVIRTH.
HERR CARL WILLHEIM, Wild Animal Trainer.
PETER TOURCHEIJ, Elephant Educator.
GUILLAUME and JOSEPHI, Comedians.
MOVING PICTURES, etc., etc.
AND ALL THE PARK ATTRACTIONS.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Children Half-Price. One Ticket
Admits to All. Plan at Glen’s. ’Phone 1113 City.
TIVOLI Music Annual.
CHRISTMAS EDITION. No. 31.
Published bv JOE SLATER. 100 Paffes. Now Ready.
EVERY
SONG YOU REQUIRE for
Wonderful Contents.
//-
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
i
m
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
NEAT and
STRONG.
/
TO
MEND
HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
v No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1008, Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington, Eng.
Price List on
application.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home —
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
HANDLING FREIGHT AT
A PROFIT
Antiquated methods of handling freight are costly to those who use them.
■latest mechanical devices.
Engine is the latest and best
ng to do —not because we say so
s than 30 seconds-—no “waiting
1 V
of 175 feet per minute—larger
| \ ...::
it a boy can manage it.
—Get an “LHC" Hoisting Engine,
of our extraordinary special offer
gine as little as ONE SHILLING
small payment.
an any previous offer ever made
Z ” Engines, Stationary, Portable,
November and December 'OB but
May 1909.
gain—cut it out.
X
i
o
©
International Harvester >
Company of America
<INCORPORATED)
Roma Street, BRISBANE
37 Broadway, SYDNEY
545 Bourke St., MELBOURNE
Bank Street, ADELAIDE
75 York St., LAUNCESTON
Geo. Wills & Co.
PERTH
General Agents for
Western Australia .


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
MKl,bourne Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hf.ad Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,(100.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks:
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Tbe Hor., C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
of (|orth Queensland
(Established 18S8.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innas. Deepwater,
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs>
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This-Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nsr.s.'w.
fl)ontdepietefljM|.Co.,ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAG-H ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.) ; J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coltins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. It Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
“ THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE. 5 ’
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit his client-. Also First-Class
Touring: Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
When Mosquitoes annoy you <
remember how useful, either for pre- <
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
Shipping.
N ord D eutscher Lloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
To YAP, MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
via NEW BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ SICISMUND (Twin-screw) .. 15th DEC.
MANILA 12th JAN.
PRINZ WALDEMAR (Twin-screw) .. 9th FEB.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 098. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
Bank of |)eui Z ea l an d.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,900
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
rriHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
_L of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
8
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
December 23.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
January 20.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
FA RKs—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, &e. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Am dication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Coiujtaui/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
THC AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, anal
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HO LI PAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shorjdand Islands, (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
Pnfi
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
porta), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS , PHILP & CO. f Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
u
urn
HBCHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
5. H. MCDONALD, Manager.
TASMANIA
.The ideal spot for pleasure seekers ; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
HIGHFIELD
.The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-clas:
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
and Re-
for the
Cuisine.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
Banking, &c.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ... ... £3,461,003 2 6
Reserve Fund 1,240,00.) 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 0
£4,201,003 2 6
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Ivater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. E. W. Knox, Esq.
A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Auditors : F. W. Hixson, Esq. ; W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector :
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: G-eorg’e Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: \V. It. Sayers.
Branch Accountant : J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
H. H. Massie, W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Hangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
lion. 11. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and iii'Queenslandj*>
Agencies throughout the world. ~
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL “ £500,000.
Fire insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks .
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
LOVERS’ ENSraOPjEDIi.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
the knowledge imparted by this book unlocks the gate. It
considers the whole subject from the time you meet until
you two are one. Valuable chapters about dress, personal
appearance, cure for bashfulness, many things heretofore
secrets. Reproductions of curious love letters and Fifteen
Hundred tit bits in prose and poetry that you can find
daily use for. P.N., 2/6; posted, 2/B(stamps, 2/10) will bring the
book by mail,and happiness with one you love. ANGLO-AM-
ERICAN Pub’NGCo. George St. Sydney. Mention this paper
r'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
STANDARD BRICK MACHINE
IT"
*
Makes Twenty
Concrete Bricks
One Operation.
Three men
make 5000 per
day. Make
your Bricks
on the job.
Write tor
particulars.
J. J. STEELE,
Sole Agent,
104 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
December 5.
S.S. Pilbarra, December SO.
BRISBANE,
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, Dec. 12.
S.S. Innaniincka, Dec. 19.
Rest and C/iea/test Route to (ioldllelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IyjESSAGERIES jyjjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS
LEAVE SYDNEY AS under :
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with the other Mail Companies, issued at greatly
reduced rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEKXjON G
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY
December 5.
OOOMA, 2 p.rn., SATURDAY,
December 12.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and oarfjo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other VV.A. ports.)
GERALDTON
BURRUMBEET, 12 noon, WED
NKSDAY, December 16.
BRISBANE
MARYBUKOUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, December 5.
BURWAH (Carfro only), 5 p.m.,
TUI-.SDAY, December 8.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
December 12.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPAMY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H. = S.
Kederal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,400 Tons. T. Priskb, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for, saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - 13th December,
~ ~ „ SYDNEY - 24th December,
~ ~ ~ MELBOURNE - 30th December,
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 7th January,’o9
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining' room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and I
LIVERPOOL.. f
£49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed by T.S.S. DORSET, and four-weekly there-
after bv other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Eor
further information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
MoILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


Christmas and New Year Post Cards.
50 Beautiful Post Cards, 1/3 Post Free. Order at once.
Christmas Greetings, New Year Greetings.
Pretty & Novel Designs. 2-4 Choice Cards, 1/3 Post Free. Send To-Day.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO.,
Post and Christmas Card Publishers,
192-194 Castlereagh Street (near Park Street), Sydney.
The Crown Photographic Camera
Takes Large Pictures,
4% by 3% Inches.
GUARANTEED BRITISH MADE.
Two View Finders, Two Double Dark Slides, Developing
and Fixing Chemicals, Printing Frame, Waterproof Case.
Handbook of Photography and Portfolio containing Sixty
Engravings of Pictures taken with this Camera.
Only 7/6, Carriage Paid
ALTHOUGH this apparatus is so marvellously
cheap, it is quite efficient, And just the thing for
heginners in photography. It has very good lens,
with four stops of various diameters for marine, land-
scape and interior pictures and portraits ; two brilliant
view finders, a simple yet effective shutter,
time and instantaneous, two double dark slides,
a printing frame, a strong weatherproof carrying
case, and a supply of chemicals for developing
and fixing the negatives. A Book of Instruc-
tions in Photography is included, fully ex-
plaining how to use the camera, how jo take good pictures,
how to develop and fix the negatives, how to print, tone,
mount, &c. With each of the first one hundred orders we
will present an interesting portfolio containing
sixty engravings, reproducing pictures taken by
an amateur photographer with a Crown Camera
while on a Tour through Belgium. We have fixed the price
at 7s. 6d. including all oharges for carriage, so as to bring it within the reach of every aspiring photographer. Never
before has such an inexpensive opportunity been offered of indulging in the fascinating art. With this outfit you can take
portraits of your friends, views of places of interest you may visit and snap-shots of curious events and quaint characters.
It is a chance that should not be missed. Send Postal Note of any State for 7s. Gd. Obtainable only from
Union 299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
PERFECTION
TOBACCO.
EIGHT
DARK.
PLUGS OR IN TINS (CUT UP(.
2ozs. &, 4ozs.
VRI L
Should be in every home as well as in every hospital.
When you are worried and cannot eat well nor sleep well, you will
find a great help in BO VEIL.
BEWARE OF CHEAP IMITATIONS.
o
By Royal Warrant to
à
His Majesty the King.
á
LOWER VALVE
ENLARGED.
Fig. 1377-A
A Pump for Hand '
or Windmill Power
Goulds “ Pacific” Well Force Pump has every good
feature of all others, with several special ones. The
bearer top and air chamber can be turned in any desired
direction. The piston rod is brass cased; the piston is
leather packed and contains a brass wing valve. A
specially advantageous feature is the arrangement of the
lower valve. This is attached to the plate covering the
hand hole in the base and can - readily be removed for
examination or repair, without disturbing the pipe con-
nection. We can furnish this Pump with brackets and
attached to plank if desired. Complete catalogue
sent on request.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
Ride only
BROO
s Standard
Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free-
B. BROOKS &Co., Ltd., The Saddle A
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
i
1!
ESS
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENCLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWINC
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE, 428 H COLUNS S STREET, MELBOURNE.
65,000 men and women
with brains have each pur-
chased a copy of this book,
and as a result of reading it,
thousands of them started
pa the road to WEALTH.
This 104 Page Book|
ONE SHILLING
May Lead YOU To
I* FINANCIAL -f
IUUEPENDENCt
PLAINLY WRITTEN, TELLS YOU
How to accumulate money.
How to make your spare money earn more than
savings bank interest.
How to distinguish good from bad investments.
How to retrieve losses and secure the best profits.
How to realize cherished plans.
How to analyze and develop the dormant or lack-
ing quality essential to success.
How to improve yourfinancial andgeneralwelfare
How to make money safely and judiciously.
GUARANTEE
The Publishers’ guarantee, in the event of any dissatis-
faction, to refund immediately upon return of the book
not only its price, but postage both ways in addition.
Orders at one shilling per copy, stamps or P. 0.,
will be filled in rotation as received until the edition
is exhausted. At no time has any .jublication met
with such popular approval, the book being as ne-
cessary as daily bread to every intelligent man and
woman ambitious to improve their circumstances.
SEND EOli IT TODAY
THE FIDUCIARY CO. J. 350 Tacoma Building
PUBLISHERS CHICAGO, U. S. A.
ã
Sfi
x
n
<v
V
V
*
5V
/V
0&* &
<o
S?
5$
N>
â
K
/ /
ã
DON'T PAY YOUR DOCTOR
s§fc
j.
a
s
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS ! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but littje more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study vourself for a moment. The lailure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life ; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN'S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worKs w&iile you sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £.l in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear ; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liße BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-dav.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagli and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
»
The McLaughlin go.
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1


Torturing Eczema Covered Head,
Face, Neck, and Arms—Parents
were in Despair, Fearing His Death
or Lifelong Suffering—Condition
was Pitiful —Baffled Treatment.
CURED IN THREE DAYS
BY CUTICURA OINTMENT
“My little son’s eczema started
when he was seven weeks old, his head,
face, shoulders, neck,
and arms suddenly be-
coming red and rough,
just the way one’s
hands turn if one dab-
bles in water a great
deal. A doctor saw
it was eczema, and
did his best for six
months, without avail.
The child’s condition
went from bad to worse,
the affected parts be-
coming one solid sore.
Ho was a pitiable sight,
crying nearly all the
time and quite . ex-
hausting himself in his
efforts. to allay his
f-H
m
torturing skin by rubbing and scratch-
ing. _ We were almost despairing, think-
ing it meant either death or lifelong
suffering, but Cuticura Ointment was
at last applied, and within a few hours
Mrs. Cooper said she noticed a change
for the better. After three days’ treat-
ment it was quite apparent that a com-
plete cure had been effected. In a
week his skin was perfectly clear.
Really, I should never have believed
it if I had not seen it myself. This
was two years ago and my child has
never had the slightest return of any
skin irritation, and is now the perfect
picture of health. I cannot too strongly
express my gratitude for what the
wonderful Cuticura has done for us.
I am only too pleased to show the
child to any one who calls to verify
this marvellous cure. William Cooper,
246, Murchison Rd., Leyton, London,
N. E., July 4, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults
consists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuti-
cura Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Re-
solvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood.
A Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
5. Rue de la Prix; Australia, R. Towns* Co.,
Sydney: South Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town,
etc: India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta; U. S. A., Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
There is indefinably some-
thing that appeals directly and
instantaneously to the soul of
every musician who hears a
FEURICH Piano. Such a
mellow sweetness of tone in
accompanying a singer is rarely
experienced. Singing to a
FEURICH is perfectly delight-
ful. Yet, when desired for
brilliant execution, wealth and
volume of tone, the FEURICH
rises to the occasion in a mar-
vellous way. To be fully im-
pressed, you must hear the
FEURICH, and we will be
only too delighted to give you
the opportunity at our show-
rooms at any time.
Extended Terms Arranged.
Old Instruments taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co. Ltd..
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
ABOLISHING THE TERRORS OF SEA TRIPS.
Most of the sickness suffered by people, and principally
ladies, during sea trips arises from the smell of bilge
water or oil or other unpleasant odors found on even the
best kept steamers. And it is this fear of sea-sickness
that loses our coasting steamers thousands of passengers
every year. A good preventive of this main cause of
sea-sickness is now to be found in the new, cheap and
simple,'self-containedelectrical appliance for the purpose
of distributing perfumes throughout steamers’ saloons,
cabins, etc. It is a wonderful appliance, about the size of
a small mantelpiece clock, and is instantly put in motion
by touching a little handle. It may be seen at Washing-
ton H. Soul’s (Pattinson and Co'.), Civil Service Co-op.,
David Jones and Co., Ltd., Farmer and Co., Ltd.,
and Anthony Horderns. It should soon be in use on all
our steamship lines, and in our hospitals, theatres, halls
and hotels.
ä
A Smart Patent Leather
Tie Shoe for Ladies &
The Shoe illustrated is one of Fashion’s latest fancies—fo r
style, fit and finish it cannot be excelled.
In patent leather, with round toe and Cuban
heel, it may be had with pump soles, at - -
16/S
Or in same style, but with hand-sewn, welted sole, at 21 j-
Note.— lf you should be ordering: from any-
where in Victoria, add 9d. extra for postage,
or Is. if from any other State. Send for
“ Shoelight,” our illustrated booklet — free.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne; land 3 Errol St.,
North Melbourne ; 303 Chapel St., Prahran.
LET US
REDUCE
YOUR
WEIGHT!
å
[37
When science offers a complete, positive, safe,
lasting, and effective cure for Obesity, it seems
a crime nearly that any fat woman or man should
continue their life a burden to themselves, and
a laughing-stock for their acquaintances.
“FATCURE”
will reduce your weight by as much as five pounds
a week> and, at the same time, it is beneficial to
your general health. No drastic dieting or kill-
ing exercise is required when thismethod is used.
Put up in tablet form, it can be secretly taken if
desired, and is pleasant, and absolutely harmless.
It is most beneficial in all oases of weak heart,
especially if fatty degeneration is suspected. A
few doses improve your breathing, and the
treatment will restore your figure, and reduce
your weight to normal.
Trial Sample Free.— Send a 2d. stamp
for free sample, and full particulars. Our Free
Book Plain Talk on Obesity—will prove very
interesting. Write or call TO-DAY.
The Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
'' [4
MORLICKS
MALTED
MIMC
ä
Important Notice.
Attention is drawn to the fact
that Horlick’s Malted
Milk has been analysed
by the Board of Health and
admitted free of duty.
Chemists, etc. are therefore
safe in selling Horlick’s
and parents are guaranteed
a suitable food for children
from birth, which contains No Starch.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
SALT
sc
SEE
HOW
IT
RUNS
Agents—Harrison &• Attwood , Sydney.
ā
Enables anyone Eo accompany
SONC&.eEc.j on Piano,
3s®fe>
V
eS
M
O/tgf Melbourne,
• Bendigo r- Geelong
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
TURTLE BRAND
y%igU&juUi :>
& Sohn,
A. Q.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
Heliar-
Camera
i PLATE.
a
SUITABLE FOR TROPICAL CLIMATES.
Solk Australasian Agknts :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 GEORGE STREET, near C.P.0., SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), post free. [3
Creates a beautiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
Penetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
skin, fills out the lines and hollows and
restores its youthful appearance.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, or
from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old Bond
Street, London, England.
Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
o
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that tfye
Public appreciate their splendid curipc
power over the above-named conmlaints.
|
Frootoids are elegant in appearance and
pleasant to take; they are immensely
more valuable than an ordinary aperient;
they remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident by the disappearance of headache,
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient medi-
cine to take when any Congestion or
Blood Poison is present, or when Conges-
tion of the Brain or Appoplexy is present
or threatening. They have been tested,
and have been proved to afford quick
relief in such cases when other aperients
have not done any good at all.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver;
a dose taken at bed-time, once a week, is
highly beneficial.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a dose
of Frootoids, instead of an ordinary
aperient. The patient thus gradua'ly
becomes independent of Aperient Medi-
cines.
Price 1/6. Chemists, Medicine Vendors,
or the Proorietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
LADIES’ TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for:
VERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
115,000
The WaybaeK Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps laughing. Bed Harry Is.
A Song of Stays.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From shoulders to feet the figure should be as straight
up and down as a telegraph-pole, and not much thicker.
It is bad taste to have hips just now. —Fashion note.
Stays !
Woman is stays !
Moulded and fashioned,
Fastened and fettered,
Penned in and breathless,
Bed-faced, triumphant,
Dammed and compressed
Into the newest,
Into the latest.
Most wonderful shape.
Stays !
Marvellous Stays!
How they encompass her !
Torture and stifle her !
Bending her—bending her
(But never breaking her)
Till she conforms to the standard of Taste,
Till she is ’prisoned j
And bound in her armor
Of whalebone and steel.
Stays!
Shaped by her Stays,
Woman, the Pliable
Clay of the staymaker,
Upright and honest —
Like the Village Blacksmith—
Goes thro’ the world ;
Gone are the gracious curves
That she had yesterday ;
Vanished the hips she wore ;
Tell me, where are then now i
Vain is my questioning !
No voice replies!
Stays !
Deep in the earth
The miners are toiling
Extracting the ore
To melt in the furnace
And make the good steel
That will hold in the Woman
And keep her quite flat.
■ Stays ! ,
Deep in the sea,
The Whale, unsuspicious',
Is sifting his dinner
Thro’ whalebone that, later,
By exquisite drapers,
Who dabble.in ha’pence
And sell by the yard.
Will be sold to fair women
To alter their bound’ries
So that Surveyor Man
May find new interest
In God’s Best Work.
Stays !
Kept in the school,
The embryo draper
Who later will sell her
The magical garment
Sits doing liis sums ;
Grubby and mannerless,
Fate has her eye on him
Writ on the calico,
I see his life.
Stays !
Forth in a year or so
He with a broom will go
Into commercial life
Sweeping the Shop.
So dusty years will pass
Till.he, the graduate,
Clad in a hammer-tail,
Bows o’er the silk.
So does Fate deal with him.
Gripping his Soul.
Winds of the Smaller Change
Blow him about.
Till at the counter,
Polite and immaculate, , ,
He waits for the Woman/
The Draper of Fate.
The Steel and the Miner,
The Whale and the Whalebone,
The Exquisite Draper, ,
They re-mould the Woman
.And make her afresh
(STAYS !),
And Woman the Pliable
Clay df the Universe, J
Says to the Modellers,
“ Make what you will of me ; ,
I am content ! ”
So she submits to them
And in a little while • '
Utterly different
From her old self
She rises Phcenix-like
From last year’s Stays.
Stays !
Woman is stays!
Moulded and fashioned,
Fastened and fettered,
Penned in anil breathless,
Red-faced, triumphant.
Dammed and compressed
Into the latest,
Into the newest ,
Most wonderful shape !
N.S.W.
KODAK.
The tale of the fat man at the back of the Wel-
lington (M.L.) tramcar :
“Now you dry up,” he said, “and let me speak. I
can’t see any reason why we should make such a fuss over
the American fleet. What with this coal strike coming
on, and the Prohibitionists running round like mad, and
Ward borrowing a couple of millions or so, and the High
Commissionership vacant, and a general election coming
on, it will take a man all his time to earn a living with-
out talking about Socialism. Over in Australia they’ve
got a depression coming on because they can’t fix the site
of the Federal capital, and Wade’s playing tip against
Dkakin and Lyne ; and I reckon we’ve got a depression
here already. You needn’t tell me. Look at the unem-
ployed. Look at George Laurenson. What does he
want, talking about shifting the Parliament House from
Wellington ? Spuds are dear enough, aren’t they ? Over
in Nelson they’ve got a woman cabby'. Does that
look like prosperity? Why, in Invercargill, where all
the pubs are shut, there was enough whisky drunk
in one week to last another town for a month.
What do you say about Socialism now? This birth-rate
business too. Millar, thinks it’s bad. What does he know
about it? Let him fix up the Arbitration Act and take
the duty off pianos, and then perhaps Massey will get
into office. Who said Massey was no good? The bakers
are still out on strike. Very likely you think that will
bring down the price of flour. Oh, your Socialism’s all
right for Chinamen. Chinamen? Don’t tell me they
won’t pass Ward’s education test ? It’s all right, perhaps,
but they’re selling- bananas at five for fid. With that and
the hard frost down south, do you think the price of
wheat will be any lower? Why, a man can’t keep fowls.
Talk about Socialism ! Look at the Farmers’ Union and
the discontent in the railways ! Will that pay the
public debt? What price your Socialists now-? If that
doesn’t convince you, what will?”
1 said it completely convinced me, and went away with
my head humming like a capsized beehive.


gpN'S Popular
‘AT O R
RAZOR
Guaranteed a High Grade Razor.
FULLY HOLLOW GROUND.
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED.
Finest Steel. Smooth Shaving.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle . .
7 in Case, one for each day of the week.
TO BE OBTAINED OF
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney.
ALWAYS KEEPS
THE EDGE.
ă
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.”
— Lancet.
ą
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, - ,
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
DON’T LOOK OLD
DARKEN
TOUR
filifY
WITH
HAIR RESTORER
&
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE BALLET GIRL
I A
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Sind Stamp for Illustrated. Lilts of Books and Sovelties
Madame Panza,
Sox 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Australian flutual Provident Society.
Next Annua! Distribution! of the Profits as at 31st December, 1908.
Every participating Policy in the Ordinary Department, issued previous to the close of t t cuiien 3 >
share in the Bonus to be then allotted. mnvo than n third of
Amount divided among the Members for the one year 1907 was £708,245, p S
the total premiums received during the year. tzm
SSteSSSrS. "of otSr;f.«..-..r r a *,
Amount mo.
bursed among Members or their beneficiaries, £27,765,937. .. . nffi p-. tt
Policies can be secured for any sum up to £lO,OOO. For full particulars write to the Head Office, 87 Pitt
Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., ROBERT B. CAMERON
General Manager and Actuary. oecreoai 3 .
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
"WINCHESTER
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
PATERNOSTER'S
PILLS
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
GOUT
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
25
ǻ
This DIET is recommended
) in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant.*
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
a
æ
it*
f
i
It aets like a charm In
DIARRH(EA.
'jsW
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Manhind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensivelv used Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world , in bottles , Is. 1 id. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz ., 4s. 6 d. each .
WAR NING —Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN S CHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the ‘ ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents : Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman’s Chlorodynr, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
4*
ǽ
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as? may be advisable.
Eenger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
The farmers around Noradjuha (Vic.)
lately protested loudly against Railway Ross
Tait’s policy of putting the local station in charge
of a lad of 16, who is station-master, shunter,
signalman, ticket-clerk and general rouseabout.
As about 200 bales of wool are now being handled
there daily, and a lot of disgracefully overweighted
wheat bags will presently come through, it looks
as though the Victorian railways were inviting a
repetition of the Sunshine disaster, which was also
largely due to undermanning. Still, as these
farmers now pay a specially low freight rate for
their wheat and wool, and are nevertheless per-
petually whining for further concessions, their
protest is merely reminiscent of the remarks made
by the pot to the kettle.
“ Mularula ” writes from the spot :
The recent subdivision sale of the Tariaro estate, near
Narrabri (N.S. W.), is a striking example of the benefits of
Private Enterprise, in the way of making land available
for closer settlement. The estate was sold a couple of
months ago at a high price, and was bought as a whole
(for subdivision purposes) by a Private Enterprise shindy-
kit. Lately it was sold again at a higher price, and all
the best part of it was bought by another shindykit (for
further subdivision). The latest sale was at £8 per acre.
What price the land will reach after passing through the
claws of a few more syndicates, no man knoweth. And
closer settlement gets little, if any, further forward. A
man with moderate capital has rather less chance than
Buckley’s one-eyed dog of making a success on the land
at the usual syndicate prices. And yet the awful “ Uyl-
stone Squirt ” and other barraekers for Private Enterprise
subdivisions continue to be elected for country' districts
fairly swarming with land-hungry toilers who could, and
would, make a success “ on the land ” if only they could
get there. Verily the ways of many bush voters are
strange, also peculiar, likewise not very logical, and
rather insane.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.kS.W.
K6e LEADING
HOUSE for
I
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our
COLLECTOR GUN.
CANT
B
BEAT
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks;
24in. barrel, length over all 381 in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
40s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, N.S.W.; 3s 2d, Interstate.
*N
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. Mr Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals)
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Quef.n Elizabeth, Is 6d.
a
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
.Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
c i ?r t Jj' co , v L ered ? dltlon of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-Working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s ,6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptambron, and many
otners, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, LGablished 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO, DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the .Stage, is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Bush Songs’, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations,; 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy; Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. 'New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, §d, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
à
GBD
á
BRIARS do not
BURNorCRACK
Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia •
25lClarer\ceSt.$ydr\ey
BEST
HORN
SHAPE
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
:yy
Free)
2-ft. High.
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR a BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-sized "Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye-, and represented with flesh-coloured body, red stock-
y?S s > shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
f. * le ,. * s an a i r an d spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highlv
finished, a 1 working parts are of best material, rapid in itsaction, and
' cci ” ate its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WHT6H
enaiN and PENOaNT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money 6/-, and we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED, i WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—Imitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W,
I
Boy’s Rifle.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of ‘ 1 Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
å
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSMTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract m tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Inaision haying NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem.
ists, storekeepers, and by E. D. MORRISON,
Fropnetor, 39 Huntee.street, Stdnet.
Sample bottles and full particulars, by post
Is. <d. (stamps) to make C, gallons spray. ’
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthina, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMATJLT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bp all Chemists.
== Britisb=jf«sfralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
m advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians’ is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


THINGS WE LIKE BEST.
Why is it they so seldom agree with us?
WHAT’S the reason the things ive like best so seldom seein to agree with us 1
Maybe it’s because we over-eat of thehl. Then follows a fit of INDIGES-
TION. Only lasts a day or Wo perhaps. But it’s a most uncomfortable
day or two. If we disregard consequences and indulge our appetites, the certainty
that we iriust Suffer spoils the pleasure. We don’t mean to abuse our stomachs*
but we all do it more or less. We see things we wantj and can’t resist the longing fot
them. When it’s too late we regret our rashness. But thete’s a
way to escape the conseqhences of such indiscretions. A dose of
a good digestant like DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES, \Vhich digest what you eat, will relieve your trouble
at oiice. That is a sensible remedy.
-a>
DO YOU
ENJOY WHAT
YOU EAT?
If you don’t, your food does not do you much good. There is no way to
maintain the health and strength of mind and body except by nourishment.
There is no way to nourish the body except through the stomach. The stomach
must be kept healthy, pure and sweet, or the strength will go down and disease
will result. DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES is the remedy that
everyone should take when there is anything wrong with the stomach.
Poor Appetite, Loss of Strength, Nervousness, Headache, Bad Breath, Heart-
burn, Indigestion and Dyspepsia are quickly cured by the use of DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABULES. These Tabules represent the natural juices of digestion,
combined with the greatest known tonic and reconstructive properties. They
simply do the work of the stomach, relieving that weakened organ and permitting
it to rest and recuperate. When you take DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES everything you eat tastes good, and every bit of the nutriment that the
food contains is assimilated and appropriated by the blood and tissues.
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES are obtainable everywhere at
2/6 per tin of 80 Tabules, or will be posted, upon receipt of price, by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
BILIOUSNESS
Bile Bean Cures are Permanent Cures.
fc\
%
THE following testimony further supports the claims
made for Bile Beans—that they cure promptly,
positively, and permanently. Some four years ago
Mr. H. Symon, of Twede Street, Oamaru,
N.Z., forwarded us a letter embodying
his gratitude for the great good he had
derived from Bile Beans, and he now
sends the following to inform us that
he still enjoys good health, and has
had no return of his old complaints.
Such testimony Is of the utmost value
to the public, because the need of a
remedy devoid of harmful drugs, gentle
in action, certain in effect, and which
has stood the test of time, is as urgent
to-day as it ever was. Such is Bile
Beans, the standard family medicine.
“Four years ago,” says Mr. Symon,
“it was my pleasure to testify to the
virtues of Bile Beans as a cure for
Biliousness and Indigestion. Up to
that time I was a great sufferer from these distressing
complaints; so much so that I was bent and aged
beyond my years, and it was with difficulty and
pain that I could perform my work. I underwent a course of Bile Beans, and they
made me a different man. I was able to walk upright, and perform my work with
ease and comfort. It is four years since Bile Beans cured me of my distressing
troubles, and as there have been no return of them since then, I can safely say
I AM CURED TO STAY CURED,
I still enjoy good health, and, as I say, have had no return of my old complaints. On no
consideration would I be without Bile Beans in the house. As a family medicine they
are a splendid corrective.”
Bile Beans are the standard remedy for biliousness, headache, indigestion,
constipation, piles, debility, summer fag, lassitude, loss of appetite, anaemia,
disturbed sleep, and all liver and stomach ailments. Of all chemists and
stores, at Is. and 2s. 9d. per box (contains three times Is. Hd. size).
A
The Holy Constitution.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Regarding: the “ New Protection,” As distinct from the
old, Mr. Palmer farther showed his particular brand Of
“ liberalism ” by saying that the Constitution was of “ too
sacred A kind to be tampered with for a twopennnv half-
penny thing favored by one section of the community.”
—Parliamentary Report.
Jt EAD ye here the song as sung
By a chief named, briefly, Ung.
M\ In the days when arguments there mainly
•*” *■ axes :
“ O my people, this my Law
Is withoiit defect or flam,
And it governs ways and means and rates and
tastes.
Ho amend it there nnwis'e ;
And if any tribesman tries,
Cfe Haiti meet with swift aheming retribution.
"Lis omnipotent, infallible, as all may recdgUise;
In short, it is onr Noble Constitution.”
When this heOlithi'c in an
Gave the world his early plan
Of tribal laws to bind his nascent nation,
He opined, with tine conceit,
That his System was complete,
And the acme of all human legislation.
“For all time this Law shall stand ! ”
He decreed \Tith manner grand
Artd a splendid disregard for evolution ;
And the Tory crowd that followed, bore this
tenet in its hand :
“ You must never touch the Sacred Constitution
So the Party then in power,
To improve the shining hour,
Contracted quite a pleasing little habit:
Safely guarded in their “ right,”
If they fancied aught in sight,
Being “constitutionally safe,” they’d grab it,
And they told the rank and file,
With a patronising smile,
When the People talked of “wrongs” and
“ persecution,”
“ It is very, very sad, and, no doubt, your case is
bad ;
But We cannot tamper with the Constitution
But meat-winners of the day
(Rabid Socialists were they)
By slow degrees arrived at this conclusion i
That the hide-bound Tory joss
Totalled mainly bluff and dross,
And its “sacredness” was wholly an illusion.
Then with yells and growlings vile,
In their quaint primeval style
They planned a prehistoric revolution ;
And with bits of tertiary rock they wrecked the
Tories’ smile
And, incidentally, the Constitution.
All this happened, as you know,
Quite a long, long time ago ;
And the world has since known Greece and Rome
and Sparta,
Medes and Persians and such fools
Who were bound by cast-iron rules—
Which reminds us of Old England’s Magna Charta.
There’s no doubt when England pressed
Hard to have her wrongs redressed.
And “persuaded ” John to sign the resolution,
That hard-shell old Tory King thought it quite a
shocking thing
To meddle with the Holy Constitution.
So on, ever since King John,
As the world moves surely on,
And the People cry for reformation drastic,
You can hear right down the line
E’er the same old Tory whine
Protesting, “It is most iconoclastic !”
’Tis the same old Tory way,
Same old “everlasting nay,”
'Tis the same reactionary elocution.
But, who stood for “ Progress ” yesterday is
“ Retrograde ” to-day ;
And we’ve got to meddle with the Constitution.
While the Fatman waxes fat,
He's content to stop at that;
He will bless the Constitution and defend it;
But whene’er it needs repair,
’Tis the man who works his share
That uprises, patriotic, to amend it.
Oh, it’s not the slightest use—
When your “right ” becomes “ abuse ”
’Tis the law of legislative evolution
That every Great Reform is won, ’spite argu-
ments abstruse,
By altering the blessed Constitution.
Gentle Tory, prithee hark
Back to Ung of ages dark,
And defend his blessed code with sandstone axes.
Mayhap in that murky bourne
You'll escape a fate forlorn,
Full of New Protection and Progressive Taxes.
And you won't be sorely missed,
If you fall beneath some fist,
For young Progress shouts for men of execution.
And, as regards reform and such, we’ll DO JUST
AS WE LIST,
For it's Ours, this High and Holy Constitution.
VIC.
C. J. DENNIS.
Mistaken Identity.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AW’RIGHT ! Aw’right ! Ain’t la-
movin’ on as farst as ever I kin?”
demanded the badgered Mr. Sharp of
the corpulent police constable, who was ponder-
ously backing him into the gutter.
“Now then, no lip. Move yourself a bit
quicker—d’ye hear me?” persisted the autocratic
representative of Law and Order, as he adminis-
tered a final push. This brought Mr. Sharp into
abrupt collision with a third person of singular
aspect, who, from a safe coign of vantage upon
the kerb, was engaged in a spirited controversy
with the ribald custodian of a railway-lorry.
“Carn’t yotl look Where you’re a-Cotnin’ to?
. ’Oo are you shovin’ of?” inquited Mr. Sharps ex-
hibiting a remarkable thirst for information under
trying circumstances. “ Ho, it’s you, is it, Jerry ?
I didn’t reckernise yer ugly mug at fust,” he con-
tinued, as aside-movement of the Controversialist’s
head displayed the features of an old acquaint-
ance. “ Why, wot’s the row ? Wot’s ’e bin doin’
t’ you?”
Mr. Jeremiah Maunder made ndrespbrtsb. He
Was at the rhoihent tod busy raCkirig his brainS for
a fittirig sdrbasm in reply to a daring Cbmparisdn
Which the loriy-driver had just drawn between
him artd a striped baboon.
“Idort’t take ho notice Of ’im, derby—treat ’im
teb silent scorn,” pursued the kind-hearted Mb.
Shatp; becoming seriously alatmed fob his vener-
able fbibnd, who had turned pUtple with bage, and
looked as if about tb bubst.
“Guy Forks! Why don’t they biirn Ver?”
yelled Mr; MaOndeb, invbluntarily executing a
feW steps Of a pds sent.
“Tike it ’ome! Tike it ’ome!” Came the
diminishing accents of the rhetorical carman.
“Lie down, Jerry,” said Sam, soothingly.
“ Wot’s the good o’ ’aVin’ wbrds with the likes 0’
’im ? They’re Orl the same. There was an eye :
sdre Of d JOhii ’Op come interferin' along o’ me
ori’y jist now, w’en I were lookin’ in at a jew’ler’s
winder trvin’ ter decide which o’ them gold watch
an’ chains I was goin’ ter buy yer fur a Christ-
massy present. Come on, don’t stan’ there
makin’ a pantomime o’ yerself. I wants ter tork
ter yer.”
The bellicose Mr. Maunder suffered Sam to
lead him gently away in the direction of Flinders-
lane. By this time it was quite dark. Most of
the offices had closed for the day, and the princi-
pal business thoroughfares were emptying fast,
Flinders-lane, with its stacks of gloomy ware-
houses, looked desolate and deserted. An occa-
sional light twinkled remotely from an upper
Window, aiid each infrequent passing footstep
echoed in a hollow fashion on the stones,
“ Now this'ere’s a financical cUr-mittee,” said
Sam, propping himself against a Wall and digging
his hands into the pockets of his nether garments.
“I ’ad an idea f’r raisin’ the wind, an’ that there
interferin’shovin’John ’Op spoilt it. You said
as you ’ad an idea in y’r silly old ’ead f’r raisin’
the wind, an’ I find yer fightin’ a lorryman in yer
old age, an’ no wind raised. Now we’ve gotter
invest our capital in some promisin’ investment.
’Ow much brass ’ave you.got, Jerry, not countin’
that ’ard ole face o’ yers ?”
Mr. Maunder coughed huskily.
“Two bob, a tanner an’a thrip’ny-bit, Sam,”
he rejoined, diving into the noisome recesses of
his habiliments, and producing a dingy piece of
rag twisted into a knot. This he unravelled with
much deliberation, and displayed the enumerated
coins for the edification of his comrade.
“Two an’ nine, Jerry—wot a pity you never
’ad noeddication,” said Sam, regretfully. “Well,
that won’t go fur, will it ? I’ve a solitary thick-un
as I won off of Jimmy Bates over the Cup. If you
wos ter arst me ’ow I got it out of ’im, answer you
back I could not; on’y thin’, he were so drunk
that night that he tried ter kiss the John wot run
’im inside. Now me an’ you ’ave alius stuck
together—we’re insup’rables, that’s wot we are ;
an’ as long as you be’ave yerself, I’ll share yer
larst penny along o’ you, so don’t be down-’earted.
Question is, ’ow are we goin’ ter raise a bit?”
Mr. Maunder consulted the unsympathetic
pavement, then lifted a pair of red-rimmed eyes
to an equally unresponsive sky, and failing to
gather inspiration from either of these final re-
sources of the destitute, he shook his matted
head.
“I dunno, Sam,” he said, not without pathos,
“ It seems ter me it ain’t no good tryin’ ter earn a
honest livin’. Them as ’as money lies lappin’
lux’ry, an’ never thinks o’ their pore feller-creeturs
whose ’arsh suff’rin’s won’t let ’em work. Why
ain’t it orl divided up equal, I’d like ter arst ? ”
Mr. Sharp refrained from a rash entry into the
tangled mazes of Mr. Maunder’s moral specula-
tions.
“Tork sense, Jerry,” he besought, with some
impatience. “Leave that sort o’ gas ter them as
likes it. Look ’ere ”
He broke off suddenly, and clutched his com-
panion by the arm. Until that moment they had
had the thoroughfare to themselves. Now, however,
a frail old gentleman, very nattily attired, whose
sparse grey locks escaped from beneath the broad
brim of a wide-awake hat, turned in at the Eliza-
beth-street end of the lane, and, pausing under a
lamp, stooped painfully to adjust a refractory
shoe-lace.
“See ’im?” said Sam in an excited whisper.
“The very kind of ole gen’leman wot would carry
a few loose thick ’uns round with ’im. ’E’s short-
sighted too ; I kin see’s gold goggles a-glistenin’.
There ain’t nobody about, Jerry. Slip acrost an’
knock ’is lamps orf so as ’e won’t be able ter
reckernise yer ; put yer ’and through ’is pockets
—’e’ll be too scared ter’oiler out—then w’en I’ve
give yer time ter skin ’im I’ll come runnin’ bravely
ter the rescue ; you’ll do a guy, an’ leave me ter
fix up the rest o’ the job. We’ll meet at the
‘ ’Orns ’in a hour or so’s time. Twig ? ”
Mr. Maunder wavered. There was an attrac-
tive simplicity and directness about the proposed
proceedings, but physical daring had never been
an attribute of his character. He turned a
fascinated gaze upon the tempter.
“ Why don’t yer do it yerself, Sam?” he en-
quired, hoarsely.
“ No, no, Jerry,” said the self-depreciatory Mr.
Sharp. “ Who’d be afraid of a pore stunted little
seldom-fed like meself ? ’E’d on’y larf at me ; but
you, why the very sight o’ you’d turn a roarin’
an’ rampagin’ lion inter lamb an’ mint sorce.
Look slippy, mate —’ere’e comes. Jest ’magine
you’re Ned Kelly.” He slid swiftly into the
shelter of a convenient archway.
Now, whether the mention of the deceased Mr.
Kelly, of infamous renown, aroused some latent
and combative devil in Mr. Maunder’s bosom, it
is impossible to say ; but the fact remains that
with a display of alacrity uncommon in persons of
his ripe years, Jeremiah Maunder suddenly darted
across the road, and fell upon the astonished old
gentleman with a vigor which might, to all appear-
ance, have ended in manslaughter. But before
the victim was quite dead Mr. Sharp came, to
the rescue. As he arrived, Mr. Maunder
scoured down the street as though the avenger
of the blood that, trickled from the old gentle-
man’s nose was at his heels. The breathless
(Continued on next page.)


A MAN IS AS STRONG AS HIS BACK
A Man can only do as much Work as his back will stand.
Once the back gives out he must lay down his tools.
But that is not all, for backache tells of sick kidneys. Other unmistakable signs are dizziness, stiffness of the
limbs, sick headache, and sleeplessness. Before long the patient grows nervous, short tempered, and depressed; the eyes
become heavy and sunken, with swellings beneath them, and the color flies from the cheeks. There is danger of kidney
disease, rheumatism, dropsy, and Bright’s disease. The liquid poison
which causes kidney troubles is driven from the body quickly and
thoroughly by the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This great
medicine will strengthen your back by relieving and toning up the kidneys.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
CITY
Mr. J. Bickell, 10 Chappel Street, Sydney,
says:—“ I was a martyr to kidney trouble; my
back never ceased aching. The pains were across
the loins and down the thighs, and at times I
could scarcely move. I also had urinary weakness,
which was very annoying, and the secretions
were disordered, containing sediment. My life
was miserable, and I knew that I was getting
worse every day, in spite of the fact that I
used a great many remedies. Mrs. Mullins, of
49 Hunter Street, advised me to use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and I got some right
away. This remedy cured me, every dis-
tressing symptom has gone, and my kidneys
are strong and healthy.”
Eight years later Mrs. Bickell says : “For the
benefit of people who are tortured with kidney
trouble, I am pleased to add to the above the fact
that my husband’s cure has lasted. He is quite
well now, and has been during the past eight
years.”
MANLY
Mr. William Bagnall, Storekeeper, Brookvale,
near Manly, says : “ About five years ago I met
with a serious accident; was thrown out of a sulky
and hurt my back. I was so bad I knew that I
had injured my kidneys. I could not get about at
all for a couple of months, and then only with
the greatest difficulty ; and I endured agony.
Every move was torture. I used many remedies,
but nothing eased the pain. Seeing Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, I decided to try
them. After taking one box I noticed an improve-
ment, so I went on taking them. In all, I used
twenty boxes for a cure, and I am now as well and
as strong as ever I was. This did not happen
yesterday, but four years ago, and it proves that
the remedy is genuinely good that I’ve been well
all that time. I consider my cure marvellous, for
lam over 70 years of age. I have lived at Manly
for 50 years, so I am well known, and my word
should carry weight.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per box (6 boxes 15/3),
or posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney
i/A
N*
*' Every
picture
tells a
story."
â
Kidney
PILLS
victim, minus hat and umbrella, staggered up
against a friendly wall with language which
he would doubtless have been the first to depre-
cate in his calmer intervals.
“Oh, the villain! The murderin’ villain!”
gasped Sam, with an assumption of indignation
which did him credit. “I should’ave’ad’im if
me foot ’adn’t a-slipped on a bit o’ orange peel. I
never see’d a more ’orrider-lookin’ feller afore in
orl me born life ; but I’ll know ’im agin, sir, never
fear—ginger face an’ red whiskers ’e ’ad, least-
ways ginger whiskers an’ red face, I meanter say.
Did ’e ’urt you, guv’nor ?”
“ There, pick up my spectacles, and don’t make
such a confounded commotion,” said the old
gentleman with unexpected acerbity. “ You’ll
bring half Melbourne running to see what’s wrong
if you go on braying like that. Give me those
spectacles, can’t you? I’m blind as a bat without
mj? glasses:”
Sqrfiewhat abashed; Sard grOpled irt tile gutter
until hh tettieved the triissirig aids td Visidd, and
restored tneni td their owiier. The bld gentleibart
polished the lenses Carefully upon the tail df his
frock coat; and gave his deliverer a loiig find
SeatcHing glance; Sanl dndhred this close scrutiny
With eqUUdiiUity.
“ Well, I suppose I ought td thank ydii,” Said
the assaulted one, riot o’vef-gracidusly; “but I
wish you had been a minute sooner. The fellow
got off with my pocket-book containing £5O worth
of notes, and, most unfortunately, I have no
record of the numbers.”
Sam struggled hard to repress a spasm of grati-
fication.
“ Dear me, sir ! I’m very sorry to ’ear you say
so. I s'pose the on’y thin’ ter be done now is ter
see the p’leece about it ? ”
“ Damn the police !” exclaimed the old gentle-
man, testily. “ What’s the good of the Melbourne
police? They couldn’t catch a lame tortoise, let
alone such a desperate character as that fellow.
Besides, I leave the State on a six-months’ holi-
day trip to-morrow, and I don’t want to be kept
pottering about here on the bare chance of an
arrest. No, the £5O must go—it’s a nuisance, but,
thank heavens, it will neither make me nor break
me.”
Sam stared in genuine astonishment. This
must certainly be some eccentric millionaire. His
respect for the victim of Mr. Maunder’s dastardly
outrags went up by leaps and bounds.
“ Well, sir, you know best,” he said, with
becoming humility. “Ain’t there nothink else I
kin do fur yer ? ”
“ What’s your name?” asked the old gentleman
abruptly.
“ Sam Sharp, sir. ‘ Good-’earted Samuel ’ me
mates call me,” replied the rescuer modestly.
“Oh, well, look here, Sharp,” pursued his in-
terrogator, “I’m not saying that your pluck and
promptitude don’t deserve recognition, and so I’m
going to make you a present of £5. Now, I
haven’t a penny about me yonder precious
scoundrel took good care of that—and I don’t keep
loose cash in my house; but first thing in the
morning I shall be going to the bank, and I will
either send a lad with the money, or post it by
letter to any address you may give me.”
Sam’s face lit up.
“ Thank you kindly, sir, I’m sure,” he said. “ I
on’y done me boundin’ dooty, an’ I didn’t expeck
ter git nothink fur doin’ of it. The ‘’Orns,’
Graham -street, Port Melbourne, ’ll find me, sir.
It’s a little public as is kep’ by me brother-in-law
wot’s bin bankrupt twice.”
“Yerv well,” said the old gentleman, “you shall
hear from me during the course of to-morrow morn-
ing. Now I must be getting back to St. Kilda.
Bless my soul,” and he burst out laughing, “I’ve
no money with which to pay the cabman. My
excellent friend, you must do me yet another
service. What change have you got about you ? ”
“ I’ve one suv’rin,” replied Sam, proudly pro-
ducing the net result of Mr. Jimmy Bates’ rash
wager. “Your welcome to it, sir. ’Appy ter be
able to commode you.”
“Well, if that isn’t a capital idea ! ” ejaculated
the old gentleman, wiping the tears of merriment
from his spectacles. “Fancy my having to bor-
row from you, my friend ! That will be £6 I owe
you. Well, good evening. Mr. George Bussell
is my name, of St. Kilda. You shall have the
money to-morrow morning without fail.”
He pocketed Mr. Sharp’s sole remaining coin,
and retraced his steps in the direction of Eliza-
betlvstreet.
“That Weren’t a bad spec,” muttered Sam, as
he Watched the retreating figiire. “Ole Jerry
deserVes a putty ttiedal. 1 didn’t think ’e ’ad it
ip ’ini. Fifty-five quid ! We’re made for life !
Ain’t it a liieky thin’ the ole bloke’s got sech a
down dn them Jo’hrt ’Ops? Oouldrt’t ketcli a lame
tortus ! Ho, ho, he ain’t fut Wrong there.”
Still chdcklirtg. unmelodidusly to himself, he
fflade the best Of His way td Pdrt Melbourne, add
his accustomed steps carried him undeViatingly
into the bar of the “Horns.” Mr. Maunder was
glaringly conspicuous by his absence. For two
seemingly interminable hours Sam waited in a
perfect fever of impatience. Nightmare visions
of his ancient friend quenching an insistent
thirst with the proceeds of their joint
venture, and presently giving the whole lawless
incident away to beery time-servers in a
narrative punctuated with hiccups, drove Mr.
Sharp to the verge of insanity. Until closing-
time he flitted from hostelry to hostelry, raking
each threepenny bar with eagle glances. His per-
turbation was increased, if possible, by the know-
ledge that he possessed not the wherewithal to
purchase for himself even the smallest of small
beers, while Mr. Maunder was revelling in the
Babylonian luxury of £5O 2s. 9d. At length, in
despair, and bubbling over with wrath, he sought
a vacant building allotment, and strove to forget
his troubles in slumber.
Early next morning, precisely as the Horns threw
wide its hospitable portals, Mr. Sharp, haggard
and dishevelled, presented himself in the bar.
Sure enough, there was the perfidious Mr. Maun-
der imbibing gin and peppermint.
“Mornin’, Sam,” said the landlord, who, in an
elegant state of semi-dress, was studying the
columns of the previous evening’s newspaper. “ I
see there’s bin another o’ them bank robberies yes-
terday. Smart plant, too. Ole chap comes in at
the busiest time o’ day, w’en the tellers wos up to
their eyes in it, an’ ’ooks a bundle o’ bank-notes
to the value o’ five ’undered pounds from under
their very noses. It ends up be sayin’, ‘ The
p’leece are confident that- they ’ave obtained a
strong clue, but are inclined to be very reticent.’”
“ Ho, indeed,” said Mr. Sharp, coldly, his basi-
lisk eye gloating vengefully upon the unpunctual
Mr. Maunder. "’Ooever ’e wos. ’e ain’t the on’y
one as sneaks orf with' wot don’t belong ter ’im.
Come outside, Jerry, you—you mutton-’eaded
monkey !” he demanded in a ferocious, strangled
whisper.
Mr. Maunder hastily drained the dregs of his
simple beverage, and reluctantly followed his
half-frenzied colleague, perfuming the free and
open air as he went with a subtle fragrance.
“Now,” continued the exasperated Mr. Sharp,
“jest ’and over that fifty quid quick an’ lively.”
“ Wotever are you dreamin’ of, Sam ? ” inquired
the perplexed Jerry. “ Did you’ave crayfish fur
supper larst night ? I ain’t go”t fifty ’apence. You
oughterbe more carefullero’ that pore ’ead o’yers.
I don’t think as ’ow you ever rightly got over that
sunstroke wot the doctor said ’ad afflicted yer
brain.”
“ Look ’ere,” said Sam, speaking with ominous
deliberation; “wot I wanter arst is this : First,
why didn’t you meet me larst night as arranged ?
Second, wot ’ave you done with the £5O worth o’
bank-notes you took off of the ole gen’leman in
Flinders-lane, ’im wot I lent a suv’rin to fir ’is
cab-fare ’ome ? Now then, speak out, an’ no
false’oods.”
Mr. Maunder regarded his friend with a look of
unmistakable amaze.
“ Sam,” he said, with benevolent concern, “you
really oughter see a doctor without puttin’ it orf
any longer, Why, I never got a brass farthin’ off
Of the ole gen’leman, fur no sooner ’ad I knocked
’is goggles inter the gutter than ’e calls out ‘ Ho
Gawd !’ jest like that, an’ whips out a revolver—-
I wUnner you didn’t see it. ‘ Clear ! ’ he sez, oii’y
that one Word, an’ I cleared. I never run so
farst in me life afore—l wos runnin’ orl night, I
b’leeve ; an’ so would you ’ave, Sam, if you’d see
the look ’e give me vV’CH ’e pointed that ’orrid
wepping of ’is.”
“ It’s a blarsted fake,” burst out the sUspicioUs
Sam. “You’ve got the flimsies planted some-
where. I’ll ’ave it in fur you over this, Jerry,
s’vvelp me ”
At this juncture the landlord of the Horns
thrust a frowsy head between the swing-doors,
and jerked a crumpled envelope in the direction
of the disputants.
“ Letter fur you, Sharp. A lad brought it larst
night jist arter you quitted. I’d a’most furgotit.”
His head disappeared with Jack-in-the-box-like
abruptness, and Sam pounced eagerly upon the
missive. He tore it open and read the contents
carefully, twice. The color left his cheeks and he
seemed suddenly to shrivel up into an old and
decrepit man.
“Well, I’m damned!” he said, in hoarse,
broken accents, and handed the slovenly half-
sheet of notepaper to his gaping comrade. “Read
it, Jerry, read it aloud, so as I’ll know I ain’t
wanderin’ in me mind,” he besought, with the
bitterness of thorough disillusionment.
Mr. Maunder obeyed, slowly and with some
difficulty, the literary researches of nearly three
score years and ten having been mainly devoted
to the study of incriminatory police notices. He
read as follows
Sam Sharp, why the Devil can’t you and Jerry Maunder
stick to your own line ! I gob a had scare, I can tell you,
when the old imbecile—
“ That’s you, Jerry,” interpolated Sam, sadly.
—grabbed me in Flinders-lane to-night. I thought at first
it was the Johns. I worked a rare plant at the Consoli-
dated Bank this afternoon ; you’ll have heard all about itby
now r —a clear five hundred. Me and Bet leave the State
for change of air to-morrow morning early. Sorry I can’t
stump up the quid you so kindly lent me for my cab fare
to St. Kilda, but, as you know, I never part if I can help
it. After all, it serves you right forgoing on a lay you
ain’t used to. Take my tip, you and Maunder stick to
bilking bungs and other fatheads, else you’ll find your-
selves in Queer-street some fine day. Love to Jerry.
Lord, how' he did run wdien he twigged my little per-
suader ! I’m laughing still. I suppose 1 needn’t sign this.
You’ll guess who it is. P.S. —What did you think of my
get-up? N.B.—Destroy this when read.
“So it was Dick the Dodger,” moaned Mr.
Maunder. “Well, never mind, Sam',' you airi’f
the on’y silly fool in the world. We’re orl rriugs
sometimes, an’ you’ll never see that ’ere suv’rin o’
yers any more. Fancy it bein’ ole Dick ! Slim,
ain’t ’e? Now, wodger say ter a gin an’ pepper-
mint ? ”
But for once Mr. Sharp said nothing. Shame
and disappointment held him speechless and
consumed with wrath.
LAWRENCE B. JUPP.
Waiting.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, homeless Love ! Oft times with piteous
damns
Have I awaited her when she was late,
And watched the double stream of passing trams
That clanged and rolled —resistlessly as Fate,
Like solemn beetles, lighted up and fat,
In which Unsympathetic people sat.
And, while I stood and dreamed dear dreams of
Her,
The beetle inmates hurried coldly by ;
The wind around the corner blew a cur
No whit more homeless than my Love or I,
Arid wheri each muffled drove had passed and gone
I turned my collar up and Waited on.
More wind—more trams ! Oh, weary vigil§ !
Hark !
The faintest sound of footsteps crisp and light;
But no ! She passes swiftly in the dark
Without a single glance. Unknown, good-
night !
O bleak wind singing in the wires above,
Blow unto me my dear unpunctual Love !
More trams—more wind ! Was ever such a fool
As I ? ... Yet she’s the sweetest maid of all.
But oh, the wind ! ~. I must admit I’m cool;
Yet rather this than her stern father’s hall,
And confidences whispered soft and low
Till 10 p.m.; then, “Really, you must go ! ”
A step within the dark—a clear voice cries,
Uncertain, “Is that you ? ” . . . It is for this—
The laughing welcome in her splendid eyes,
The old excuses used by every miss—
That I have waited long (and so have you !)
“I’m sorry T’ . . . “Never mind now. Well,
where to ? ”
And then the old enchanted pilgrimage,
Where happiness is never far to seek ;
Upon which we—bar accidents —engage
Invariably once or twice a week,
Beneath the fierce electric’s hissing blue
(A sweet old confidential mile or two).
’Tis worth unnumbered faint and piteous damns
To linger at the corner when she’s late,
And watch the running river made of trams —
Like lines of beetles, aged and sedate,
From which alight fat men who stare and frown
And bear umbrellas and are Settled Down.
N. 8. W.
KODAK.


“Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
ã
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of ns.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. 8. A.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
OHLORODYHE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP. AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing: Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
S&NT/|£
Ml D\
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
4 in i
WPf
Each Capsule bears the name
7. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk.” a
lectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
V.
collection of
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers,
free from Bulletin office, ss.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all dies ami affords comfort to ever> home-
in dining room, sleepmg-room, ana ail places where tins
PB5
areM6u>>W<niie.
Clean, eat and
ornanieritai, will
not mil or injure
anything, one
lasts tins entire
seas n.
sold by
Wholesale
ruggtsts,
Groce s and
Hardware
Oealtii,
among whom are :
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. F. H. Fatilding & Co., O'Connoll St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung &Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim.Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Go. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N. Y,, U.S.A,
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you'll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home —
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which, has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask year chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
HSS?
m?.
S IK
;
Imparts to Metal the
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name.
i»
Ask for SOLARINE
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
METAL POLISH
jam
m
9V
o
Hz
L w i==
BH
W
Manufactured by
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
?
*1
COLORED
and
$fl c
POST CARDS
©o*
P GOOD LUCK
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of jewellery which we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
/or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
tvsry case positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
1 NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
REGAL POST CARD C?. 126 O'CONNELL ST. S> OHEY.
You will look like yourself again
when you get fid of that muddy complexion, when the whites of your eyes
lose that yellowish tinge, when a touch of Nature's carmine tints your cheeks,
when your step is firm and your general appearance suggests that you are not
troubled with "nerves," when you are able to take a ten-mile walk or tackle an
extra turn of hard work without undue fatigue, when you enjoy your food and
suffer no uneasy sensations
after taking
your meals, when you sleep soundly and look life gladly in the Face, ready to
encounter its inevitable difficulties, your mind free from gloomy forebodings.
And all this will happen directly you start taking Beecham's Pills. To be
in health your liver must be doing its work thoroughly, your stomach free from
dyspeptic weakness, your blood flowing pure and life-giving through your veins.
These essential conditions to physical well-being are undoubtedly to be secured
by an intelligent use of
BEECHAMS
PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price i/i j (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
.
m
■ r V:
am
m
AEOLUS, the God of the Winds,
is a firm believer in
“Steel Wings” Windmill
as are all our Customers. They work
so well together.
These Windmills are strong and powerful.
They have a large sail area. They run easy on
account of the bearing on EaCH side
of the wintlwheel.
The Balance Gear is a Grand Feature.
It counteracts the weight of the pump rod, and
prevents the mill locking at the bottom of the
stroke.
The above features render our windmills
50 Per Cent. MORE POWERFUL than any others.
Sole Makers—
Steel Wings Windmill Go., Ltd.,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
Dept. C supply all information.
•ULLETIN
f
1SOJ
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS,
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.’’ From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Hyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Fonvarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
2H, George Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear: —
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3' Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
< Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. ..£1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern/
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS-& CO.
All orders for gunk and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
ON THE HOP
■ . 7/ . . •*,. \ : • • . . > • ‘ .
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&C.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted ersonally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 dally.
DR. MARTIN'S NEW BOOK,
"The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,"
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent, medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different, to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
“ter
MEN
A NO
WOMEN
FREE
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on
on receipt of this adversisemeht. Note Address :
1 Men’s special Ailments"
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elm ley House," fSI Elizabeth -St. .


Rubber Goods
for Mining Men.
Mining- operators will find' it advantageous to
order their Rubber Goods from us. We carry all
the necessary lines, and the prices are particu-
larly economical.
•ctne
lir A ft
HOSE.— Air Drill, Steam, Suc-
tion Delivery, Sluicing.
SHEET RUBBER.— Valves,
Buffers, Joints, Washers, Engine
Packings, Sheet Jointings, Asbes-
tos Boiler Composition, etc.
Samples and Estimates will be
submitted, if desired.
Ask for Catalogue No. 13.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
Manufacturers of High-Grade
Mechanical Rubber Goods,
270 George Street, Sydney.
SAVE 20 H.F. IN EVERY 100 H.P.
HYATT FLEXIBLE ROLLER BEARINGS.
Agents—W, & J. LEMPRIERE, Melbourne
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
S PATENT
BELTING.
THE GRICINAL AMD
GENUINE BALATA.
J
o
<
o:
H
Mr;
or
<
2
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a iruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: tlames Hardee & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
ä
LOOK
FOR
THE
NAME
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply-J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure, It is mSst comfort*? 'lrritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become°chromc "no? Consumn’
5 ° leV M OP , COn ¥ m ??°K n 15 .\ 0t kn ° wn where “Coughs” have,- on their & hrst appearance,
“re TcertSn. “° " taken at the begmnm g> a dose 01 is generally suffic.erft, anl a Complete
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally,
: ;<t ft
MASON STEAM REDUCING VALVES.
Essential in Every Modern Steam Outfit whether on land or f a.
Reduces and then Maintains an even Steam Pressure regardless 'itial
Pressure. Where others fail, try a “ MASON.”
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
H. P. GREGORY & CO
ENCE
YDNEY
■
ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY
MERCHANTS.
Send for Bulletins
■
The Card Concentrator
The Sperry Slimer
The King Screen
The B. & JT. Agitating Tanks
The Turnover Vacuum Filter
Awarded Crand Prize, World’s Fair, Stt Louis.
A Perfect Core Drill.
Billetts Tuyere
Gravity Concrete flixer
Pancklasts
The Abbott Filter
All Kinds Explosives. ']
and
ney
•»
