

J
Kfc. G-. WATSiLIUTS dfc CSO.,
107 Kent Street:, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
iWm
ISlis 11
UOBAUX.
— 1
(jadley’s Orient jjotel.
McLAREN’S
COMPOUND
TRACTION ENGINES
Are Simple, Efficient,
Economical & Durable.
LARGE STOCKS OF ENGINES and DUPLICATE PARTS HELD IN SYDNEY.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS
APPLY to SOLE AGENTS,
7 Bent St, Sydney, N.S.W.
\
" Take it back,
1 must have -
Fine Apple Brand
*
CHUBB'S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
Tlaticnals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribe! Capital - - - £2,000,000.
«
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security .
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch
14 Spring St-, Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wante.
WALKER’S KILMARNOCK WHISKY
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of th 3 present day
are . . • •
.
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
instructions
Free.
THE “SILVERTOWN”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch :
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSAGHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
I
is the Queen oM Cocoas
FOP^
l Arom^StreMtKt-Puribc
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4*
FERR-lER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power
Sole Makers —
Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating' and Ice-MaKing Machinery.
HELiDON SPA WATER.
There is nothing aperient in KELIDQN SPA, but it is
Nature’s scavenger, nevertheless.
GOLLJN & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
V01.29.— N0. 1457.]
[Thursday, Jauuary |h, v T$OB.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
7i CASTLEREAQH STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Daily Mail Year Book, 1908, Is posted.
Who’s Who? 1908, enlarged, 12s, postage JOd.
Whittaker’s Almanac, 1908, wrapper Is 3d, post 4d, half
leather 3s 6d, post 6d.
Gallon, Christmas at Poverty Castle, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Albanesi, Love in a Mist, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Vaughan, Father, Society Sin and the Saviour, 3s 6d, p. 6d.
Barzini, From Pekin to Paris, 16s, post Bd.
Pemberton, The Amateur Motorist, illus., 15s, post 9d.
Webber, Town Gas and its Uses, 7s, post Bd.
Munro and Hunter, The Clyde, illus. in color, 24s p Is.
Wharton, Fruit of the Tree, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post fid. '
Furneaure, Reinforced Concrete Construction, 15s, p. 8d
Adams, Electricity Book for Boys, 6s, post fid.
Williams, With the Border Ruffians, 12s, post Bd.
Seeley, Artists of the Italian Renaissance, 9s, post Bd.
Webb, The Heritage of Dress, 12s, post Bd.
Macgregor, Netherlands “Romance of History,”7s n. fid
Lodge, Modern Views of Electricity, 6s, post fid.
Scott and Wallar, Call of the Homeland, 5s fid, post fid.
A book for every boy naturalist.
THE USEFUL BIRDS OF SOUTH
1 AUSTRALIA, by R. HALL, F.L.S., 300 pages,
with full description and 100 illustrations of the birds
that are to be found about ; their species, color and
measurement of eggs, where nests are to be found, and
many other interesting and valuable features. 3s. 6d.,
posted 3s. 11d.
Mind and body.— a journal of human
NATURE. Bright, Crisp and Helpful. 2s. 6d.
per year. Send for Specimen Number.
The native companion.”
An Australian Magazine of Art, Literature
and Life. Edited by E. J. Brady.
6d. Monthly, or 6/- per year, post free.
THOS. C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HUDSONS
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1/6.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBE
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, anti the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
A— The Larynx, or organ of voice,
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “ EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. On
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food. [2.
THE RED PAGE
PROBLEMS OF SPACE
npiHE now generally accepted theory
that the atom is really an infi-
nitely small repetition of our solar
system, with innumerable planets—the
electrons—revolving about a central sun,
the atom, has pi*ompted E. E. Fournier
d’Albe, author of The Electron Theory,
to use his scientific imagination for a
consideration of the conditions governing
that infra-microscopic world. But, logi-
cally, if our solar system is duplicated in
an infra-world, the probabilities also
point to the existence of a supra-world,
wherein the whole visible universe is
recognised as but an electron revolving
about a tremendous atom, which d’Albe
calls a supra-star. Hence the title of his
interesting speculation, Two New Worlds
(Longmans, Green, London, per Bymock’s
Library, Sydney). The author’s view of
■our universe is that it is situated midway
between the infra-woi’ld, known to us as
molecular phenomena, and the supra-
world, which appears to us as a stellar
universe, “just as We appear to the in-
habitants of the infra-world, if such
there be.”
*53?
Of the existence of the infra-world
science is assured, and the author
attempts to investigate its problems
by the aid of a lavish use of
the scientific imagination and much
mathematics. Instead of life upon the
earth we must now conceive existence
upon an electron. And here d’Albe offers
a remarkable, but quite comprehensible,
theory as to the relativity of time and
space.
If we were small enough to live on an
electron, as we now do on the earth, we
should measure all things by comparing them
with ourselves, or with our electron, and we
should measure time by the rotation of our
electron round the central atom.
So, in reducing our conception of space
to these infinitesimal proportions, time is
reduced (for us, if translated to that
world) in the same proportion. Events
happen as much faster in the infra-world
as the sizes are smaller.
We may have entered the infra-world in
the full expectation of finding everything in
a wild whirl and turmoil, and here we find
ourselves entirely mistaken. Our electron
rolls through space as leisui'ely and majesti-
cally as the Earth appeared to do. When
one revolution is completed, another is
begun ; and so it goes on for a thousand
million “years” perhaps—years measured
by the revolutions of the electron. This
vast period covers but a millionth of one
terrestrial second, it is true, but how could
we know that ? We no longer measure time
by the terrestrial scale.
But while time and space would be
thus relatively diminished, the curious
fact is brought out that speed would
suffer no similar reduction : the velocities
prevalent in both worlds are substantially
the same, both relatively a’nd absolutely.
It is generally admitted that nothing in
the universe caix move with a greater
velocity than the speed of light; and the
speed of the star arid of the electron are
just about equal, but each is below the
speed of light.
d’Albe even dreams of the possibility
of life upon that electron, life which
would seem to a denizen of that world as
crowded with events and as long as our
span of seventy terrestrial years. But
the lives of countless generations of
beings would have time to accomplish
themselves in a small fraction of our
second of time. However, leaving that
speculation aside, we are shown that the
universe of atoms and electrons is physic-
ally and mechanically not essentially
different from ours. d’Albe points out
that our visible universe resembles a
rarefied gas rather than a liquid or solid.
For the average distance between the
molecules of atmospheric air is 1000 times
their diameter, whereas the distance of the
nearest fixed star is 3000 times the diameter
of the solar system. Other parts of our
universe are, of course, much denser, and
approach more closely to what we may call
the liquid state. But the starry universe
immediately surrounding us corresponds to
a gas, with solaT systems for molecules.
In order to visualise for us the solar
systems of this infra-world, d’Albe gives
an imaginary extract from the records of
an observatory situation on an electron,
in which we are permitted to view the
gorgeous perturbations within that sys-
tem resulting from, say, the formation of
a hydrogen molecule. But these tremen-
dous changes would, to those electron
inhabitants, seem spread over very long
intervals of time, making them prac-
tically of as little influence to the daily
life of the infra-men as the proper
motions of the stars are to us.
Thus it is quite possible for two similar
universes, differing only in the size of its
discrete particles, to occupy the same
space at the same time.
#3?
And now for the supra-world. Going
through the converse process, and re-
ducing the visible universe by the world-
ratio, or, what comes to the same thing,
increasing our own size in the same
ratio, taking care to alter the scale of
time accordingly, what—as supra-men—
should we find ?
We should find a small ring showing very
intricate workmanship, floating in space, or
falling through it. We cannot even remotely
guess what is becoming of the ring, since its
fate for a single supra-second takes a thou-
sand billion of our terrestrial yeax-s to evolve
itself. But we can see it on every starlight
night. It is known as the Milky Way. Its
density is much greater than that of the rest of
the starry heavens. Indeed, it probably is
the only object we should perceive at all,
the rest of the stars being as negligible as
the air contained within a ring lying on a
table.
d’Albe advances mathematical and
optical reasons for his common-sense
tfieory that outside our visible universe—
our galaxy of stars—is empty space for
some distance, and then other galaxies
or somewhat different structures. These
again, he suggests, must form a larger
aggregate. —a system of universes—some-
thing we might call a supra-star. Each
of these galactic universes, like our own
star system, has plenty of room to move
about in. In all probability, since the
nearest other universe is too far away for
us to see it, it would take a billion years
for two galaxies to approach each other
and meet. But this rare occurrence, it
has been recently pointed out by astrono-
mers, is probably taking place in our
system at the present moment.
Our galactic system consists, in fact, of
two independent systems which are gradually
travelling through each other. ... If these
systems had not been independent formerly,
tliey could never have acquired the inde-
pendent directions and velocities they actually
exhibit. We may take it, then, that our
present visible universe is in process of
tiansfonnation by the intrusion into it of an
independent galaxy (a stellar system contain-
ing some hundred or thousand million stars).
*3?
There is, in fact, an inconceivably slow
“ collision ” of two visible universes ; and
this invasion will take some twenty
billions of years to complete. But in
supra-time this would be but a fraction
of a second. Beducing sizes and times
by the “ world ratio,” we would find
merely a number of atoms in rapid
motion, with an inner nucleus and outer
rim, or cell-wall, sufficiently cohesive to
exhibit individuality, yet sufficiently open
to admit material from outside and even
whole invading systems. So, again,
d’Albe speculates upon the possibility of
“life ” in this supra-world of stars as
atoms, and shows us why there is for
us no possibility of being able to per-
ceive it. But he suggests that our
galactic system is, in all probability, a
supra-organism ; or, if not conscious yet,
it may be in the process of acquiring
consciousness. The mingling of two
galactic .systems, at present going on in
our view, may be an act of a grhat birth
—a mingling of two germ-cells to form a
more self-determining being.
The interpenetration may be estimated to
occupy a thousand million years —a very
small fraction of a supra-second. In that
time the two galaxies will have brought
their accumulated individual experience to
bear upon each other. Such a prospect is
surely quite as conceivable as the simplest
process of generation, such as we . can
see accomplish itself under the micro-
scope in a few minutes. But what
about ourselves in this gigantic birth ? V hat
part have we to play in the next thousand
million years? Will our accumulated ex-
perience be a part of the dowry of that great
being which is now being born in the
heavens ?
And, in a fanciful, yet supremely in-
teresting, chapter, d’Albe argues that the
destiny of mankind is to combine with
other sentient beings to govern the solar
system, the solar cluster, and, finally, the
new galaxy now being evolved.
It is all very imaginative and stimulat-
ing. It is H. G. Wells happily adrift in
a fourth dimension of space.
O. HENRY
O HENRY, recently hailed in this
page as master of the art of the
journalistic short story, shows
no signs of failing craftsmanship in his
new collection, The Trimmed Lamp
(McClure, Phillips, New York, per
Sydney Book Club). This is a book that
every student of the modern short story
should read. O. Henry is probably the
most genuinely humorous writer alive.
It is unfair to sample him by quotation,
but some indication of his style may be
given :
Without money —as a poet should be —
but with the ardor of an astronomer dis-
covering a new star in the chorus of the
Milky Way, or a man who has seen ink sud-
denly flow from his fountain pen, Baggies
wandered into the great city.
Or take that charming story, “ A
Harlem Tragedy,” of the advantages
accruing to a wife whose husband beats
her. Mr. Fink was a “good ” husband ;
he never hammered his wife, and life
passed for them in a stifling monotony.
Mr. Cassidy hammered his wife every
Saturday night—and made up contritely
for it all the rest of the week by theatre
tickets and new “ silk shirt-waists.” And
Mrs. Cassidy comes down proudly to
show her black eye, and appraise, to
Mrs. Fink’s envy, the cash value of each
bruise.
*53?
“Don’t it hurt when he soaks you?”
asked Mrs. Fink, curiously.
“Hurt!”—Mrs. Cassidy gave a soprano
scream of delight. “ Well, say—did you
ever have a brick house fall on you—well,
that’s just the way it feels —just like when
they’re digging you out of the ruins. Jack’s
got a left that spells two matinees and a new
pair of Oxfords —and his right ! —well, it
takes a trip to Coney and six pairs of open-
work, silk lisle threads to make that good.”
“But what does he beat you for ? ” in-
quired Mrs. Fink, with wide-open eyes.
“ Silly ! ” said Mrs. Cassidy, indulgently.
“ Why, because he’s full. It’s generally on
Saturday nights.”
“ But what cause do you give him ? ” per-
sisted the seeker after knowledge.
“ Why, didn’t I marry him ? Jack comes
in tanked up ; and I’m here, ain’t I ? Who
else has he got a right to beat ? I’d just like
to catch him once beating anybody else !
Sometimes it’s because supper ain’t ready ;
and sometimes it’s because it is. Jack ain’t
particular about causes. He just lushes till
he remembers he’s married, and then he
makes for home and does me up. . . . Some-
times I take the count the first round ; but
when I feel like having a good time during
the week, or want some new rags, I come
up again for more punishment. That’s what
I done last night. Jack knows I’ve been
wanting a black silk waist for a month, and
I didn’t think just one black eye would
bring it. Tell you what, Mag, I’ll bet you
the ice-cream he brings it to-night.”
Mrs. Fink was thinking deeply.
“My Mart,” she said, “never hit me a
lick in his life. It’s just like what you said,
Marne ; he comes in grouchy, and ain’t got a
word to say. He never takes me out any-
where. He’s a chair-warmer at home for
fair. He buys me things, but he looks so
glum about it that I never appreciate ’em.”
Mrs. Cassidy slipped an arm around her
chum.
“You poor thing!” she said. “But
everybody can’t have a husband like Jack.
Marriage wouldn’t be no failure if they was
all like him. These discontented wives you
hear about—what they need is a man to
come home and kick their slats in once a
week, and then make it up in kisses and
chocolate creams. That’d give ’em some
interest in life. What I want is a masterful
man that slugs you when his jagged, and
hugs you when he ain’t jagged. Preserve
me from the man that ain’t got the sand to
do neither ! ”
Mrs. Fink sighed. . . .
She went up to her flat and had a little
cry. It was a meaningless cry, the kind of
cry that only a woman knows about, a cry
for no particular cause. Altogether an
absurd cry; the most transient and the
most hopeless cry in the repertory of grief.
Why had Martin never thrashed her ? He
was as big and strong as Jack Cassidy. Did
he not care for her at all ?
But the tragedy must be left untold;
for in O. Henry’s stories it is the last
few words that are the story. He never
says a word too much, and often he does
not even say the word. But he has more
than humor. “ The Social Triangle ” and
“Elsie in New York ” have an under-
lying gravity that is the true pathos. In
the realm of the conte 0. Henry occu-
pies class 1.
Cabbages and Kings, O, Henry’s first
book (same publishers per same library),
is, though in form a novel, a loosely
linked series of short stories of a now
rather over-worked comic-opera republic
in South America. It is topical and
tropical.
BOOKLETS OF VERSE
David M. Boss, of WaikMo, M.L., has
done a pretty thing in The Promise of the
Star (Jarrold, London* Is.). His blank
verse shows good technique, but means
little. The thing is a conception of Christ’s
birth and temptation upon wholly conven-
tional lines, dignified, here and there, with
metaphor a little above the average, such as :
And in the night, when white star cataracts
Foamed through the sky . . .
And all the trees seemed flowered with murmur-
ing doves... .
All wistfully He watched the dying day,
And saw again the city of His love
Thro’ distance and thro’ tears —a stormy sea
Enringed by mighty walls—with surging domes,
And rolling billows of great masonry,
Foam into marble spires and roofs of gold,
Ere Night struck blind the Day, with all her
stars.
D. M. Boss has a gift of melody, but the
poem is merely one that need not have been
written.
From Germany comes (printed in English)
The Gipsy Melodies (Schnegelberger, Wies-
baden), by Hubert de Beuter. Hubert
sheds “poems” upon everything: “On
Seeing Some Swallows in a Turkish Govern-
ment Building,” “ On Seeing a Butterfly in
the Streets,” “To a Trout,” “To a Dead
Cat,” and “ Guy Bootliby.” He even
includes “Australia,” which was uncalled
for. Thus he apostrophises ‘ ‘ Mohammedan
Women ” :
Aye, hide your faces, you ugly crew,
Aye, hide your ugly faces ;
Sunlight was not made for such as you,
So hide your ugly faces.
However, Hubert has provided his own
epitaph. He calls it “My Poem.”
The ladies sighed “ how beautiful! ”
And melted into sentiment,
The men declared it damnable.
And asked me what the devil it meant.
Veronica Mason, a Tasmanian girl now in
London, painting and producing beautiful
things in the applied arts, forwards J Heard
a Child Singing (Elkin Matthews), a charm-
ing little booklet of children’s verse—
■chiefly Tasmanian.
Art and Architecture (The Sept.-Oct. num-
ber comes out in Dec. Why ?) has an
interesting article upon “The Vice-Begal
Besidences of N.5.W.,” illustrated by pic-
tures of early buildings. Other features are
the designs for the Fisher Library at the
University, and admirably illustrated articles
upon Heraldry' and Architecture.
To the Red Page Back Yard, 40 pages. pP~


iff"*,
A.
s
MATHIESON’S HAMMERS # TINSMITHS’ TOOLS
At Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Bottom Closing - Machine — No. 1, lOin. reach,
1 bottom and 2 top rollers, £4.
No. 401.
Bending B,ollers, Mathieson’s, 37in., .£lO.
Swaging 1 Machines—
No. 2,4 in. reach, with 1 pair rollers, £4:.
Extra rollers for No. 1, D, E or h, 11/6 pair
Extra rollers for No. 2, D, Eor h, 13/- pair
Wrong'lit Iron Steel Faced
Creasing Stakes,
about 131 b., 19s. 6d.
m
m
No. 403.
Burring Machines,
No. 1 'j
No. 14 l
No. 2 J
45s 6d
each
Turn-up and Wiring Machine-
No. 1, locally called “ a thick edge machine,”
with 4 pairs wiring and 2 pairs closing
rollers, <£s 2s 6d.
raimmiM
mi a
.mm
IV"'
mmm
Guillotine Shears, to cut—3oin., £l± \ 36in., 17s 6d
Circle Cutting Machine, No. 1, cuts circle from to 14iii. diameter,
with 1 pair cutters, <£ 4 ss.
MATWIESON {vfi/)
P
Adjustable Bar Folder, 20in., will fold up gin., wide, adopted to
either a close or an open round, or fold at right angle, £ 6 2s 6d.
Hand Lever Punching- Machine,
with Clipping Attachment, will punch
Jin. diameter hole in Jin. iron, 6m.
gap, C 2 (No. 406), £5 ss.
Hand Lever Punching Machine,
will punch Jin. hole in Jin. iron,
,10in, gap, 83, £4e 6s.
Tire Benders, for hand power, will
do up to 3Jin. x Jin. iron, £5 10s.
No. 406.
Faning 1 Down Machine-
No. 1, £3 10s.
No. 2, £4.
Send for our Illustrated Price List of Tools for All Trades,
Post Free on Application.
Ilf.
Failing Down Hammers—
ilb., Is. lid. ; fib., 2s. ; lib., 2s.
Riveting Hammers—lib., 2s. 2d.
Hammers, Square and
Roiind Face —lib.,
3s. 3d. ; 3s.
6d. ; 3s. 9d. ;
21b., 4s. 6d.
Hollowing 1 Hammers— 2lb., 3s. 9d. ;
2ilb., 4s. ; 31b., 4s. 6d.; 3|lb., ss. ;
41b., ss. 9d. ; 51b., 7s. 9d.
Planishing Hammers—
lib., 3s. 3d. ; l£lb., 3s.
6d. ; Hlb., 3s. 6d. ; 21b.,
3s. 9d.
Blocking Hammers—
-31b., 4s. 6d.; ss.
6d. ; 41b., ss. 9d. ; 4|lb.,
6s. 3d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of liighly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Dance, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptamerok, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits ok Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Manning's Great Horse
Book, 10s. 6d. post free. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. Mf.rrik England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
53F" AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
A
G
ME
FREE PRIZE —No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patcheg and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Cent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silverware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. It costs nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send
instructions and we will
great offer is only open fi
Write at once.
you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
send you, Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
ar a limited time,
THE GUTTA. PERCHA TRADING CQ., 120 Ash St., Sydney.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. 5*% £k I "T" 3
£T% fa® i Q
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Saa Capsule marked END'S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without it you bare m
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Vnparad only by J.0.8N0. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, UNO.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MFETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c,
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
JEWELLERY.
We make you a present of either a Watch and Chain, Solid Gold Ring, Solid Gold
Brooch, Curb Bangle, &c., for selling articles of Jewellery, at Is. each, worth 2S.
We receive hundreds
of testimonials /
daily. /
We send your pre-
sent by return post
We have no furth
er claim on ypu
after you receive
your present,
and you are at
liberty to sell
your present
if you wish.
7 N© MONEY REQUIRED WHATEYER— SimpIy
send us apostcard with full name and address and say you will
sell the Jewellery or return it to us, and we will post you the
jewellery. When sold send us the money received for
same, and we will at once send Free of all further
charges either of above valuable presents.
F'FPt* for sell * n g 12 articles of
1 1 jewellery. We send you a
Solid Reliable Watch and _
Handsome Double Albert or a solid Gold
Brooch & Bangle or our “ Challenge ”
Clock, perfect timekeeper, orna-
mental and useful.
for selling
only 6 ar-
, tides. We will
/ send solid gold Pin
or Ring, or lady’s
Solid Gold Pend-
ant and necklet or
Bangle
Send us your
Name & Hddress
Free
Free
for selling
only 3 articles
we will send you your
choice of any articles pick-
ed from our Catalogue of novel-
ties which we send with the jewellery.
RCQThe party selling the 12 a--
* ICC tides in the shortest time is en-
titled to 2 Sovereigns besides his, or her other present.
WRITE TO-DAY. GOODS SENT TO-MORROW. If you are unable to sell
these useful and artistic articles of jewellery, we will make you a handsome
present for your trouble.
Our only
Address :
yuui UUUUIC.
British Jewellery Co., 907 George=st., Sydney,
C-B
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
In^so
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
All G.B. Corsets have
rust-proof supports.
C.B.
0^
£
m
%
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a typo
immeasurably superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
V an V difficulty m procuring the correct style, write for a book of types to .
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY; and BRISBANE.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
m
f -T*
NEW Rl VAL
WINCHESTER
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The important points in a shotgun Cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALEi STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL s A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
loi'llP [POtULi)*
For TORPID LIVER.
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION.
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION
Every man and 'woman should know that Liver Disorders
Injure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sadlow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, and above all things, fight Constination. Begin at
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER' PILLS, Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills*
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature ot


“For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often Void me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
4i
4k
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It ha 3
been
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
>ii(er’s
'Gherrif Sectoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer L Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
G^REENE^
tl
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
.. W ‘, W - GREENER’S ,
Facile Princeps
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Ca; write W. P. Thomp-
s jj* 3*7» Collins St., Melbourne ;or
address Greener,Birmingham.’
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-.
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St.
Or by post from
, Melbourne.
compu ' s °s^T^rj;,i h ‘ r ,n^"t
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
A' S l b is n l ecessa L ry f ? r the Trustees to bring this business
to a close they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear °
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price 1 s n
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading ’ Guns," steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. £1 19 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-B.arrel Breech-loaders,excellen t stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual orice, £5. Sale price .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price’
225. 6d. Sale Price _ .£0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
II Stic Weighs
Nearly 2 stone
54 James St., Leichhardt, N.S.W.
ist Sept., 1906. “Owing to a severe
cough my little daughter Kitty (12
months) did not improve, although I
tried various preparations. SCOTT’S
Emulsion agreed well with her, the
cough soon disappeared, and she now
weighs nearly two stone.
Always get the
Emulsion with
the mark of the
Scott process—
the Fishman.
(Mrs.) H. Hurle
REASON WHY
she was built up.
The intense nourishing
power of SCOTT’S,
that is all. SCOTT’S
is made of the purest
and strongest cod liver
oil which the world
produces. This pure
oil is made so diges-
tible by the unique
SCOTT process that
the tenderest little
patient can digest it
with ease.
Scoffs
EMULSION
Of all Chemists & Dealers in Medicine
To V e
IRISH »10SS
for The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA, **
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
'Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton’s
aiid seethatyou get it.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity .”
Average Dose. A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor.
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Beautiful Home
Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities
.For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 vears
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S A
AIM mlker “ ° f “ ODR f ' AVORITE " G 0u APOLIN " ENAMEL ’ “SAPOLIK” bath
ON THE NOP!
, s^P er b bbrary volume, handsomely printed
u ir Un< ; containing upwardsof Three hundred
t> best drawings. Full Bulletin size
A. ®» F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Motice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels;
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dreamer.
Over the crest of the Hill of Sleep,
Over the plain where the mists lie’deep
Into a country of wond’rous things
imter we dreaming, and know we’re kings.
Murmur or roar as it may, the stream
Laughs to the youngster who dreams his dream-
Oreams all are real till the dreamer wakes '
Leave him alone till his fool’s heart breaks'
N.S.W.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.
Voiced By the Sea.
Al i the night lon & the waves upon the coast,
Rising and falling, come and come again ;
And sometimes, when the winds are silent most,
-they seem to voice the cry of broken men.
I think of many a dark, defeated life—
Of men cast-down, hard-hit, and worn and pale;
Of souls that journey to the fields of strife
And join the foremost piles, but ever fail.
ior who that walks the earth with seeing eyes
bees not some high and gallant spirit meet
With wreck and ruin-some bright enterprise
Brought down to dust and smothered in defeat.
More Bungs than strength of will and willing
Are needed for achievement and success ;
What these things be, who knows ? Thev dwell
apart,
And visit those they love in storm and stress.
Some call them Fortune’s gifts, and some aver
That angels lend their shining hands to set
A crown on certain brows—that everywhere
God’s well-beloved turn success is met.
Two men may rise when dawn is in the east,
And each go forth to his allotted post,
And one meet plenty when he needs it least,
And one go hungry when he seeks it most.
I wo men, when sunset lights the western skies,
May journey homeward-one to find his place
In ashes; one to meet the shining 1 eyes
Of his beloved and her warm embrace.
Two men may move with equal pulse and breath,
wu i ° ne ’. at such a turn i n g. jest and joke ;
While, at the self-same turning, sudden death
►Strikes down the other like a lightning stroke.
All the night long the waves upon the coast,
Rising and falling, moan in accents drear,
And each runs shoreward like a sheeted ghost
Calling to gods who will not stoop to hear.
All the night long, a night of many years,
The broken, hopeless Army of Mankind
Cries in defeat, and in its cry are tears,
Yet all the world is deaf to it and blind.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Widower.
My love, I shall not see you any more
In the dear flesh which on this earth you wore,
bhall trace no little blue veins, rayed and fair,
Beneath the white skin Nature bade you wear,
Shall never let the rain of your gold hair
Trickle across my fingers in the night,
But I shall grope in darkness everywhere,
Yet never find the gleaming arc of light !
My love, they placed white blossoms on your
breast,
And holy voices lulled you to your rest,
And with the holy wind they quenched the drouth
Of all the earthly lustring of your mouth,
The freezing of the North—for one all South !
The blessing of the saintly Chapel bell—
With my man-kisses redd’ning on your mouth—
Enough to send a Consecrate to Hell!
My love,, they straightened out your little feet—
I know each arch and dimple, luring, sweet —
Straight linen robes they draped your body in
Up to the wonder of your little chin ;
They made you to a carven shape akin,
And yet—you were still lovely in your rest,
Although they hid your beauty, like a sin,
Within the smooth white hillocks of your breast.
My love, they droned some sorry tale to me
Of resignation, love, all purity,
Of a clear spirit burning like a flame ;
They might as well have raved of lust and shame !
They called you angel—God forget the name !
My man-heart will go empty all its life,
For to its doors no sexless angel came—
I only knew you woman—and a wife !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
An Australian Night.
When the western winds are crooning,
And the river makes reply,
When the stars are honeymooning
Opalescently on high ;
When the planets seem suspended
By a shredded string of light,
O ! there’s nothing half so splendid
As a pure Australian night!
When there’s someone fondly waiting
Where the boxwood saplings are,
Kisses hot anticipating
From her youthful Lochinvar ;
And you hasten to your dearest
(Yours by ling’ring lovers’ right)—
Then does Heaven seem its nearest
In a blue Australian night !
When you tell her that you love her,
And you’d gladly sacrifice
All the gleaming stars above her
For possession of her eyes ;
When amidst the sapling shadows
Love plays skittles with your might,
O ! the sum of Eldoradoes
Is a clear Australian night !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


rm
i
y.\t
v\,'
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
Wunderlich
ART METAL
CEILINGS.
Scad for ovir Booklet
"Beautiful Homes ', post free
SYDNEY,
56
Pitt St.
Otc
MELBOURNE.
123
Queen St.
.4^
u
o
c
V
a
■ r^-.
CADBURY’S COCOA
,s the ideaJ beverage because it is rich
in strength - imparting essentials and there-
prornotes physical endurance and ha.rdihood.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
1
f
f -J
gpwlA ®
T
yjfillKl
Tobacco
ManuFactored in
Richmond Virginia.
by Larus & Brother C?
Packed by RTowns *Co Age rtfs.Sydney.
: -3C2
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
It you cannot pet
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Apents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile (reduced) of Zoz. tin.
No connection wit hi any Trust or Combine.
TEN YEARS PUBLIC USE HAS PRO^£P
WSilFAfax
HEAD OFFICE-MUTUAILIFP BUILDING, MARTIN PIACE.SvDNEV-
.
V
We want
Everyone
to be an
Agent.
THE RED CROSS FILTER.
DON’T
DRINK
Yourself
TO
DEATH.
To be had from all
Storekeepers, or
Pure Water
MEANS
Perfect Health.
YOU CAN FIT IT ON ANY TAP
IN LESS THAN 10 SECONDS.
Prices Post Free.
Tank Size ~ 4 / 8
To fit 1-inch Tap - - - 4/6
~ £ „ or J-inch Tap 3/6
VALENTUE A. SOUL,
30 Vickery’s Chambers
76 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Directo
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair - IGI KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereag-h Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. - *! TRANSFORMATIONS.made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, IOILLI
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Conibing-s made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
V
T>
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
5
353 S
V
Od-S
Thoroughly waterproof—not affecfted by exposure to
weather—maintains its adhesive qualities in all
climates and all conditions. The only perfect
Insulating Tape on the market.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1457.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 10, 1908.
Pbiok 6d
A PARABLE AND A FEDERAL CAPITAL.— ( See Leading Article this Issue.)
a Man was building a House when Something that looked Loony came and told him he must Paint it Bright Red with Green Stripes. The
Builder asked the Something what Authority he had. and he Said he represented the Whole Blessed Asylum. The Builder asked what Authority
the Asylum had, and the something Provided in the Federal Compact if you Read Between the Lines. The Builder asked the Something
what good the new Arrangement would do him! and the Something said he Did that Sort of Thing to show his importance, and he .iked going about
giving Orders. Then the Builder went on Building, and the Something sat on the Fence and waited to see il Anything would turn Up.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 18 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin -posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Mow to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
oflieials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The righ tto reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The. Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivi columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ltlaele and White .
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e. , any picture -which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ichich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Liulgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Honglvong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6fin. x lhin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Sole Advertising Agent in New Zealand:
Charles Haines, N.Z. Express Building, Wellington
from whom all information pertaining to advertising
is obtainable.
ffuTZ&xxllelztfi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 16, 1908.
THE NEW HOUSE, AND THE STRANGE
LUNATIC WHO WANTED IT PAINTED
BRIGHT RED WITH GREEN STRIPES.
A long time ago, or else a short time ago—it
doesn’t matter which—some kind of a lunatic
called on a peaceful and affable citizen who was
building a new house, and demanded that he
should paint the front of it bright red with green
stripes. He called not once, but many times ; in
fact, he called pretty regularly for four years or
so, and got greatly in the road of the building
operations. The affable citizen didn’t give him in
charge as he might have done ; being a foolishly
conscientious person he spent a heap of time
trying to find out what right the kind-of-lunatic
had to interfere with the painting of the house.
On that matter he didn’t get much further forward,
but he kept worrying for fear he should un-
wittingly do his visitor a wrong by deciding that
his interference was quite uncalled for. The lunatic
said he represented a certain section of the com-
munity which claimed to have a voice in the paint-
ing of the house, but the alleged section never came
forward to make any definite statement on the
subject. It was further alleged by the lunatic
that this section would never be peaceful,
or loyal, or satisfied, and would never allow the
completion of the house, unless the building was
painted the color proposed, but no reason was
assigned for the demand. The lunatic also
brought along the Constitution and declared that
under Clause 125 the people he claimed to repre-
sent had a right to dictate about the color of the
house, but Clause 125, on being turned up, merely
stated that the affable citizen should paint his
house any hue he darned well liked. However,
the lunatic said that it was necessary to read be-
tween the lines, and to consider the spirit of the
Constitution, and as that was a very vague pro-
position it was found impossible to satisfy him.
In despair the affable citizen asked the lunatic
how much better off he would be if the house
was painted bright red with green stripes, and in
reply he got the acknowledgment that the insane
person would be no better off at all in a material
sense, but that when he went back to his village
he would be regarded as a much more important
lunatic because of the power he had shown in
compelling a reputable citizen to do his bidding.
On Sundays, he said, he would bring other luna-
tics along, and seat them in a row on the fence,
and point to the red house with green stripes, and
harangue them on his authority and influence, and
tell them how he had upheld the rights of the
community, and prevented it being trodden on;
and by this deed he hoped to rise to unprece-
dented heights of important lunacy. The affable
citizen was so much impressed by this view of
the case that he asked the lunatic his name,
and the crazy individual said it was Wade-
Hogue - Telegraph - Herald - Evening News-
Star-Carruthers, which seemed a most impro-
bable name, all things considered.
* * * m
And to this day the lunatic sits on the fence,
because the affable house-builder is too kind-
hearted to shove him off it, and chase him down
the road with a shovel ; and he interrupts the
building operations with his ravings, and clamors
to have the house painted bright red with green
stripes.
* * * *
This parable fairly represents the attitude of
N.S.W. Premier Wade and his little noisy clique
of anti-Federal grumblers, with their dreary row
about the situation of the Australian capital. The
truculent lunatic above described fills their bill to
the letter. It can’t be shown that a Federal
capital at Canberra would be a penn’orth
more good to Australia, or even to N.S.W.,
than one at Dalgety, and the most eloquent
barracking can’t show that Canberra is as good a
site as Dalgety. Not even the maddest logic can
prove to a reasonable person that the N.S.W.
State Legislature has any claim to dictate the site
of the capital or the area of the Federal territory,
merely because it is N.S.W. which has to sur-
render that territory ; it was the N.S.W. Govern-
ment which declared that N.S.W. must have the
blessed privilege of surrendering that territory,
else it would burst up the prospective Common-
wealth ; and which demanded the insertion of the
clause which gives the Australian Parliament the
right to take any area in N.S.W. provided it is
100 or more miles from Sydney and not less than
100 square miles in area. The most enthusiastic
reading and re-reading of Clause 125 can’t get
away from its plain, bald statement that
the choice of a capital site rests with the Aus-
tralian Parliament. There is no question of
right involved, nor is there the slightest evidence
that the mass of the N.S.W. people regard Can-
berra as a penn’orth more desirable than Dal-
gety, or take any real interest in the matter. But,
like the lunatic who sat on the fence and clamored
that a complete stranger should paint his house
bright red with green stripes, the Wade Govern-
ment apparently thinks that it will show its power
and influence if it can be nasty and dictatorial,
and get the capital shifted to some worse site in
order to prove the powerful effect of its ravings.
It ranks with the push rowdy who boasts over a
threepenny bar in a low back street how he
demonstrated his prowess by hitting an in-
offensive citizen whom he never saw before,
or the drunken Nevada cowboy (or cow-hog)
who shows his valor by threatening to shoot
a peaceful stranger if he doesn’t dance for the
amusement of the intoxicated company. Only the
push rowdy is likely in this case to get the worst
of the encounter, and the drinky cowboy to have
his “ gun” taken from him, and to be thrown out
on his crumpled ear.
* * * *
Still N.S.W. should consider whether it is
advisable to allow any kind of apparent lunatic to '
Erofess that it authorised him to rave outside the
ouse of a friendly person, and threaten things
unless the owner of the premises paints them
bright red with green stripes. The lunatic gets
the pleasure of a depraved kind of advertisement,
but N.S.W. gets the discredit. It isn’t a fair
division of things, and N.S.W. should get up and
take away that unauthorised lunatic, and put him
away in a peaceful spot where he won’t create so
much trouble.
THE COMMONWEALTH’S SUBJECTS AND
THE STATE’S NEGLECT.
On Saturday last there appeared in a Sydney
daily the best part of a column of wail (there was
another column of wail on Monday, but that is a
different story) headed “Stamp Printing. Another
Protest by the Premier. Some Startling Figures.”
Underneath these headings State Premier Wade
declared, with great fury, that the Australian
Government proposed to print its own
stamps for its own post office at some
place which he (the insect Wade) didn’t
approve of, and to use a steel engraving
process when he (State insect Wade) wanted it to
use an electro process. Wade, with all the
solemnity of the small boy teaching his grand-
mother something about eggs, went into long
lectures and dissertations concerning the alleged
extra expense of the process which he said the
Commonwealth proposed to adopt, and backed it
up with a report, or alleged report, which he is
alleged to have procured from somebody of more-
or-less importance in such matters. Probably
enough, his facts were all wrong, and his figures
all mixed ; those of the cantankerous State insect
mostly are, and Wade is very cantankerous and
very insect-like. In this case the public lias
simply to weigh probabilities as between Gregory
Wade and Bill Lyne. It remembers Lyne as a
man who contrived to run N.S.W. on an annual
expenditure of £10,300,000, and to pay out of that
over £1,000,000 of postal, telegraph, military,
naval and other expenditure which Wade doesn’t
have to carry. And it knows Wade as a person
who, even after being relieved of more than
£1,000,000 of expenditure that Lyne had to
carry, manages to spend about £11,500,000
a year in running N.S.W. And when the
thriftless, money-scattering Wade holds forth
in the press about the wastefulness of the
economical Bill Lyne and the non-borrowing
Federal Government to which Lyne belongs, and
does it in the large fatherly way of a kid who must
necessarily be right, admonishing a veteran who
must naturally, in the kid’s superlative opinion,
be wrong, it creates a feeling of suspicion and
nausea, especially as the fresh young Wade has
already been bowled out in so many unreliable
statements.
* * * • *
One of these days there may arise a bad-
tempered Federal Minister who will pay the
Wades and such-like political trash in their
own coin, and thereby show them the vastness of
their silly impertinence. Such a Federal Minister
would furnish the Sydney dailies with three or
four long interviews a week about State mis-
management, and its bad effects upon the Com-
monwealth’s subjects. He would point out the
utter fraudulence of Wade’s so-called Public
Works Fund; the misappropriation of State
loans ; the incapacity of Wade in not pushing on
a Greater Sydney scheme; the dirtiness and in-
efficiency of Wade in allowing plague rats to
accumulate in a big Sydney suburb while two
conflicting authorities—which only conflict because
Wade doesn’t define their separate spheres of
action—wrangled for months over a concrete
floor ; and the marvellous way in which
Wade has managed to run the State expen-
diture a good £2,000,000 a year above what
it was eight years ago. He would devote a
very long interview to explaining how well
the Federal policy of paying all new postal,
telegraph and defence expenditure out of revenue,
contrasted with the old, inefficient State policy of
charging these matters to loans. He would give
the press his carefully-thought-out opinion about
the intrigue whereby N.S.W. dismissed the emi-
nently efficient Railway Commissioner Oliver to
make room for the much less efficient im-
ported Johnson. He would hold forth in quite a
lot of bitter interviews about the aboriginal inca-
pacity of Wade and Bent, who have let the once-
splendid main road from Sydney to Melbourne
degenerate in places into a mere dangerous rut
almost overgrown with scrub, to the serious
danger of the necks of Federal citizens; and he
would discourse on the overworking of grown-up
Federal subjects on Bent’s railways, and the
murder of young Federal subjects in Bent’s over-
crowded, insanitary schools.
* * * *
On all these and a hundred other matters the
Federal Ministers have a much better right to
address the public, than Wade has to perform in
his present childishly offensive manner. It is the
Australian Government which will, in the long
run, have to find the money to pay Wade’s public
debt. It is the Commonwealth’s valuable sub-
jects who are suffering from plague on account of
Wade’s dirt and ineptitude. It is the Common-
wealth’s mail coach that breaks down, or breaks
up, on the neglected bye-roads of Wade and Bent.
It is the Commonwealth’s valuable taxpayers who
are smashed by Johnson’s trains, or Tait’s. And
it is distinctly “up to ” some Federal Minister to
tell Wade and Bent of these matters at least
three times a week, and to the extent of a column
each time.
THE SMUGGLED CHINAMAN.
Despite the Immigration Restriction Act and all
the elaborate machinery erected to keep Australia
white, a report obtained by Prime Minister
Deakin, a week or two ago, shows clearly that
Chows are coming into Australia at the rate of
unknown hundreds per year. This report was
made by an officer of the External Affairs Depart-
ment, who was specially and secretly sent to in-
vestigate the rumors of stowaway Chows which
have from time to time reached the ears
of the department. His inquiries showed
that there is in existence a regular
traffic in Chinese stowaways, with organised
methods of obtaining, shipping, landing and dis-
tributing them. First of all it wants to be made
clear why the Chow is so anxious to come to Aus-
tralia. China isn’t a crowded land in the Euro-
pean sense ) for pressure of population it isn’t a
patch on Germany, the United Kingdom, Hol-
land, Belgium or Italy, and it hardly beats
Switzerland. But it is a land of monumental
incapacity, of hard, shiftless hand labor, of
oppression and hunger and missionaries and man-
darins. The average Chow is little better than a
mediaeval serf. The weekly tale of executions in
any big city is a sufficient index to the value set
on human beings in a land where man is the most
numerous animal. Australia, on the other hand,
is a spacious land of sunshine and plenty, where
work is well paid and life is the most trea-
sured asset a man has. Long ago, before
we declined to receive any more Chows, there
were armies of them so anxious to come here that
they eagerly paid a considerable poll-tax to come in.
Now they pay heavy smuggling expenses instead.
Of course, the poor Chow hasn’t the money, but
the wealthy Chow in Australia finds it, and makes
the slave work it out.
* * * *
Hongkong is the centre of the traffic. An order
for “ immigrants ” is sent to Hongkong, and those
engaged in the business there quickly sort out 20
or 30 Chows anxious to come to the land of pro-
mise. The steerage cook of the steamer is
approached—he doesn’t need much approaching
—and paid to feed the “immigrants.” On the
last trip of one mail steamer the Chow steerage
cook was paid £67 to feed 20 stowaways. He
played the shippers false, and deserted with the
money before the steamer left. The stowaways
were already on board. They were taken ashore
again. The cook—so those well posted in these
matters declare—would be tracked down and
shipped to German New Guinea to work in
chains. It does not suit the shippers to
let defaulters go scot free. These steamers
have Chow crews. They have also false
bulkheads enclosing small spaces in which half
a dozen men can be packed on an emergency. In
every possible corner a space is enclosed with a
false wall. On one steamer, in the hold contain-
ing the steerage cook’s provisions (mostly rice),
can be seen the grooves in which are fitted the
false sides that cover the hiding places, and up
against the walls are shadowy sketches of men’s
bodies—the sweat stains of stowaways who were
cramped up there for days. Of course some of
the officers knew all about it. First and second
mates are not paid handsome salaries, and when
such a lucrative business is afoot it is not to be won-
dered at that they are bribed into acquiescence and
assistance. When a steamer leaves Hongkong,
its stowaways are hidden away in the nooks and
crannies prepared for them. The bribed cook
feeds them, and as soon as the vessel gets a good
distance from port they come out of their holes
and mix with the crew and passengers forward.
Who can tell whether there are 80 or 100 Chows
on a ship without counting them, and no one
counts. When Port Darwin comes in sight, all
the stowaways return to their hiding places. At
Darwin the Customs officers search the ship;
but they are not ships’-carpenters, and they look
only in the obvious places. The success of the
traffic depends on the stowaways being hidden in
the places which are not obvious. Such stow-
aways as are to be landed at Darwin are
smuggled ashore—of which more anon. In be-
tween ports the same procedure is followed—the
stowaways feed in the steerage and mix with the
crew. Close to ports, and sometimes, if there is
any suspicion of a special agent being aboard,
even between ports, they stay in their dens.
* » * •
The price of a Chow immigrant from Hong-
kong to Australia—not landed—is £4O to £5O.
Twenty stowaways involve the expenditure of
about £lOOO. About £7O goes to the cook, and
probably £250 or £3OO to the officers and stewards
of the steamer. This leaves over £6OO clear
profit to the shippers. In Darwin, Brisbane,
Newcastle and Sydney there are little coteries of
men—white men—who engage to land the
“immigrants.” For a small shipment, say 10 or
15 men, as much as £45 or £5O a head may be
paid for landing. Wholesale lots of 25 to 40 are
sometimes got ashore for as little as £25 a head—
a reduction is made on a quantity. This money
is obtained from the speculators who “ place” the
men, and they, in their turn, obtain it with addi-
tions from the employers of Chow labor who want
new-chum Chow slaves. In Sydney there are
known to be three (probably there are more, but
these three are known) receiving-houses for the
illicit Chow. One is a laundry, one is a cookshop,
and the other used to be an opium den. In
these places the new arrivals are hidden until
the can be sent to their new owners.
They are smart men, these “landers.” By a
German steamship, a few weeks ago, 31 stow-
aways arrived. There was difficulty about land-
ing them. The Customs had scented the affair,
and were on the alert. A man was sent to the
Customs officers to tell them that three stowaways
were on board, and to ask what reward he would
get for betraying them. He was offered £5 each.
He told the Customs officer that the Chows would
be taken past the corner of King and George streets
at 9 o’clock on Saturday night. That corner is
crowded at that hour. The Customs officer—as
the “ landers ” had expected—decided to have
most of his men at the corner to prevent the pos-
sibility of escape. At 9 o’clock three new-chum
Chows were escorted to the corner and triumph-
antly seized by the Customs. In the meantime
the water front had been almost unwatched, and
the other 28 had been landed in a steam launch
and conveyed quickly to the receiving depdts.
Within four days 17 of the 28 were at work in
market gardens in Victoria, and the other 11 dis-
tributed over New South Wales. The “landers”
received £3O a head—£B4o, plus £l5 reward
for the three decoy ducks, or a total of £855 for
about an hour’s work. It is no use multiplying
instances.
• * * *
In Brisbane the searching and watching by the
Customs is laughable. The search of the steamer
occupies minutes when it should take hours.
There is one man set to watch a whole
wharf. He leaves his post for meals. He does
not watch the lighters alongside the steamers.
Surely that is enough said. At Newcastle there
are two watchers, and there are often half-a-dozen
vessels on hand with Chow crews. Opportunities
for taking stowaways ashore are innumerable.
* • * *
That is the stowaway side of the case. There
is also direct evasion of the Act by means of the
Act itself. Certificates of domicile are issued to
all Chows who have lived five years in Australia.
Such a certificate bears the portrait and finger
prints of the holder, and entitles him to an
exemption from the provisions of the Act. The
boss Chow, who wishes to bring out a
brother or a workman, and doesn’t desire to
employ the stowaway method, takes out
a certificate of domicile, and travels to
a northern Australian port. There he goes ashore,
and either posts or sends by hand his certi-
ficate to his friend in China. The “immigrant ”
gets the certificate, and comes out to the same
northern port. In time to meet the steamer the
real owner of the certificate goes there, and the
changes are rung in such clever fashion that
neither the Customs officers nor the officers of
the External Affairs Department can explain the
how of it. The crews of the steamers are con-
tinually being changed. A steamer comes into
Sydney with a crew of 60 Chows. Their names
are taken down, and a record of their number,
but as many as 12 of the crew have been known
to come ashore and stay in Australia, their places
being taken by other Chows who wished to
pay a visit to China. These last were furnished
with certificates of domicile, and could come back
free from the Education Test whenever they liked.
In a host of other ways the exemption provisions
of the Act are evaded. Chinese youths of 18 and
19 are brought in to be educated under an ex-
emption lasting two years. They are supposed
to go to school—the school is specified to the
Secretary for External Affairs. But it is nobody’s
business to see if the youth is at school, and gene-
rally all his education consists of toil in a
garden or at a bench. At the end of two
years he is missing, or a rung-in Chow with a cer-
tificate of domicile in his pocket goes to China in
the youth’s name, and the department scratches
that youth off the books. Later on the duplicate
Chow returns by virtue of his certificate, and
everything in the Chinaman’s garden is lovely.
• » * *
As for the remedy. Apparently there should
be far closer supervision, for one thing. The Chow
“ student,” with his two years’ permit to stay here
and get the education that he doesn’t want,
should be abolished. Every Chow residing in the
land should be registered annually, and failure to
produce his registration certificate on demand
should ensure his deportation. And, if every-
thing else fails, it seems a short way out of
the difficulty to prohibit any vessel enter-
ing an Australian port with a Chinese crew.
For the white man’s guile the Customs Depart-
ment is a fair match, and if it isn’t a match for
the guile of the Chow cook and his accomplices of
the Chow crew, these persons should be kept at a
safe distance. Long-qontinued abuse of this coun-
try’s hospitality would then meet its fair and just
reward. And, above all things, the smuggler,
when he is found, should get at least three years
in gaol without the option.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Business Man” Philp.
The Philp party is working the “ business man ”
dodge for all it is worth, and Queensland is being
flooded with comparisons beginning like this :
Philp Ministers. Kidston Ministers.
Premier.—Founder of Borns, Premier. Only known
Philp and Co., large em- occupation, bookseller
ployers of labor throughout and company-promoter,
Australia. and in both he failed
hopelessly.
But this sort of comparison would be more to the
point :
Philp, Treasurer or Kidston, Treasurer or
Premier. Premier.
1899 .. Surplus £149,916 1904 .. Deficit £12,424
1900 •• .. 47,789 1905 .. Surplus 13,995
1901 .. Deficit 528,189 1906 .. 127 810
1902 •• ». 431,939 1907 .. „ 396,115
1903 •• *, 191,341 1907-8 (i year),, 198,276
Net deficit .. £953,764 Net surplus .. £723,772
So the difference between the alleged “business
man” and Kidston is £1,677,536. Admittedly
Kidston isn’t the sort of smooth, oily, plausible,
jolly-good-fellow that is likely to make money for
himself in trade. He couldn’t be a huckster worth
a cent. But where a dour person is wanted who can
say “No” to a boodling crowd, Kidston is the
man. Unfortunately for itself Queensland has been
overrun with boodling crowds. It has been the
happy hunting-ground of all the concession-
mongers in Australia. Philp— “ Bob ”to every-
body, smooth, plausible, good-natured —is as
wrong a man as could possibly be found to throw
in among that lot. The success of Burns, Philp
and Co. is constantly being dangled at the tip of
Queensland s nose. Well, Philp hasn’t for close
upon 20 years had any more to do with Burns,


Philp and Co. than Kidston has. James Burns
was running a little business in Townsville He
was one of the dour Scotch persons of the
Kidston stamp, and while the business was
small he reckoned that a man of the Philp stamp
was needed to do the affable to the customers—
and other people’s customers. Burns supplied
the brains and the business acumen ; Philp sup-
plied the “genial Bob” part. When the business
grew to such a size that one man’s affability didn’t
count, Philp went out, and Burns and the brains
stayed and the business went on growing. That,
in a few words, was Philp’s connection with
8., P. and Co. The very qualities that he brought
to the business unfit him for the job of running
Queensland. They became of no use to 8., P. and
Co., and they are of less use to Queensland, with
its tremendous debt and its years of hard grind
ahead of it. They are, in fact, less than of no
value to Queensland —the} 7 constitute about the
biggest danger that the State can hug to its
Treasury.
• ♦
Philp Proposes a Raffle.
Op all the schemes ever conceived, even in the
course of any well-authenticated jim-jams,
Philp’s plan for “reforming” the Queensland
Legislative Council is the weirdest. He proposes
to cut up the country into as many districts as
their happen to be Legislative Councillors, and
then he will run a raffle, all prizes and no blanks,
and each Councillor will draw a district. After
that, when a Councillor dies or resigns, the dis-
trict that the late Councillor won in the raffle will
have an election. If a district happens to get a
Councillor who is 87 and has a complication of
diseases, it will probably have the joy of an elec-
tion in a year or two; if it prays hard, or
puts stones in the path of the man who
won it in Philp’s raffle, it may even
have an election within a month or two.
If, however, the district is won by a tough,
middle-aged Councillor, who won’t fall over
stones, wears flannel next the skin, and avoids
heating foods in summer, it may be 30 years
before it gets the blessed privilege of having a
vote. Meantime, though that district may be
Aunty Sosh from the crown of its head to the
sole of its pocket, Socialism-in-our-time Hinch-
cliffe may have the great joy of alluding to it as
“my constituency”; and when “my con-
stituency ” rises up in its wrath and calls Philp a
fool, Hinchcliffe will smile—they are his “ con-
stituents ” for life, unless they like to shift, so his
troubles! Philp, being a “ business man,” might,
however, add to the attractiveness of the
brilliant idea by running something on the
lines of the newest Star-Bowkett building
society racket. A district ought to be
allowed to swap its member, and get a
bonus with him. A hard-up district that
happened to be drawn by an ancient with
gout, lumbago, palpitation, and Bright’s disease,
ought to be entitled to sell him for, say, £lO,OOO,
to any district that hankered after an early elec-
tion—the money to be raised by a special tax on
goats, or concertinas, or something, and to be
spent, of course, on permanent and reproductive
undertakings. The district that sold its old man
would take over the other district’s young, tough
man. While Philp is about it, he ought to show
what a biisiness-man he really is. And he needn’t
be afraid of making his scheme look more ridicu-
lous than it is. He couldn’t.
♦
Solemn Lee and his Grievance.
Minister Lee, of the N.S.W. Government, held
forth last week, at the opening of the new Sydney
Builders’ Exchange, on what he was pleased to
call the “vexed question” of the Australian
capital. Solemn Lee had a remedy for that vexed
question, and it is difficult to decide whether the
childish folly or the stupendous “cheek” of it
was the more conspicuous feature. Lee’s theory
is that the Australian Government should say to
the State Government of N.S.W. that, if the State
Legislature of N.S.W. will decide onanyold site,
it (the Australian Goverment) will accept the
same, and then the difficulty could be got over in
a few hours. The miserably narrow-minded Lee
doesn’t seem able to take into account the equally
obvious fact that the N.S.W. State Government
might say to the Australian Government that, if
the Australian Parliament has selected a site, it
(the State Government) will agree to that site, and
then the difficulty could be got over just as fast.
If the Australian Parliament will accept the State
Legislature’s selection there will be no more
trouble, and in just the same way there will be
no more trouble if the State Legislature will
accept the Australian Parliament’s selection.
Only there is this difference: The Constitution
says distinctly that the Australian Parliament
shall select the seat of Government, therefore the
Australian Parliament is only asking for its rights.
And the Constitution doesn’t say or hint or imply
that the State Legislature of N.S.W. shall select
the capital of all Australia, therefore Minister
Lee’s demand is mere coarse impertinence. Fur-
thermore the Australian Parliament has already,
in the abundance of its courtesy, consulted N.S.W.
and selected a site in the district which a
N.S.W. State official, specially appointed for the
purpose, declared was the best available. And if
it hasn’t selected a site actually offered by the
N.S.W. State Legislature, that was only because,
after many months of patient correspondence, it
couldn’t get any definite offer except such as was
implied by the reservation from sale of all State
lands round Lyndhurst, Bombala, Dalgety, and
certain other possible localities. So far as any
offer could be got, Southern Monaro was offered
and was accepted. And all the reward that cairie
to the Australian Parliament for its courtesy in
this matter was the coarse hog-like abuse of the
crowd of unreasoning political bounders to which
Lee belongs. Now the Australian Parliament,
Pacing care fully consulted the wishes of the
N.S.W. Legislature so far as they could be as-
certained, and hating got nothing in return for
its politeness save insolence, Lee urges it to
(xrnsult that Legislature again, and expose
i to more affront, and no longer to
filter itself behind “the paltry remark
I here’s Dalgety.’” If Lee and his herd
°f Political spielers could get away from the paltry
remark, “ There’s Canberra, ” it would be much
more to the point. Of course, it is quite true, as
Lee declares, that the matter could be settled at
°nce if the Australian Parliament would accept
a **y place the N.S.W. Legislature chose to
oner. That is obvious enough. And in the same
a J, if any blackmailer demanded £lOOO from Lee
under false pretences, the matter could be settled
t once by Lee paying the money. In fact, if the
??as push met Lee in the street at night and
°m him to stand on his head, the matter could
on at ouce ky Lee doing so. Anything
inti • 86 sett l e( l at once in that sort of way. But
this case, the Australian Parliament has to
its dignity and its duty to Australia,
he Constitution commands it, as the representa-
ive of Australia, to select the capital site within
urtam limits, which limits it has carefully
observed. If it hands over its rights, simply
because it is overawed by the violent language of
an unauthorised person who demands their sur-
render, even as a feeble citizen might hand over
zs. bd. to a violent pushite who stuck him up in
the street and said “blanky” and other adjec-
tives, it will be a disgraced institution.
The Little Industries.
George Hoskins, the engineer partner in the
concern that has taken over the Lithgow (N.S.W.)
ironworks, has come back from a holiday; and now
the public gets a line or two as to what he thinks
about the new undertaking. Briefly, having over-
hauled the works, he finds that they are a patch-
work, which “ could not by any means be worked
on commercial lines.” So the firm will spend just
as little as it can on the old works, and will lay
itself out to by-and-bye provide something com-
pletely up-to-date. In this there is a whole
epitome of the results of the past Freetrade
and piebald policy of N. S. Wales. First of
all, nobody with much capital would start
a manufacturing business in the country—
nobody would risk foreign competition. So
works had to be scraped together a bit at a
time, and plant that ought to have been discarded
long ago has had to be used, while the big, estab-
lished, and mostly-protected foreign competitor
has diligently scrapped plant as it became obsolete,
and thus kept himself ahead of the poor, struggling
N.S.W. manufacturer. Mostly when a Protec-
tionist policy has been considered, the small
industry has been scorned ; it has been
told to go and grow big, and then ask
for Protection—it was first required to prove
that it didn’t want Protection, and then
it could come and ask for what it didn’t want.
Naturally, for the reasons mentioned above, it
generally didn’t live to ask. Even the present Par-
liament, in considering the iron business, has
decided that it will only give Protection to that
business after the business has put itself on its
feet without Protection. In other words, it offers
to issue a railway ticket to Success after the busi-
ness has crawled there or perished on the track.
England’s Sweated Industries.
The Sweated Industries Exhibition, held some
time ago in London, was so gruesome a success
that another was lately organised. It was much
the same as the first. There was the complete
lady s costume : material, 9s. ; making (the re-
ward of the sweated toiler), Is. Id. ; profit,
os. sd. ; total price, 16s. 6d. Also there were the
boy s knickerbockers made by the wretched bony
slave m the London attic for ljd. each; and the
full-blown trousers made by the transparent
female wreck in the London cellar for each ;
and all the rest of the horrors in the making of
which the tattered English helot earns 9s. a week
by 14 hours labor per diem. Over these things
our late futile and bumptious English visitor,
Labor member Ramsay Macdonald, has been
and in loud, impassioned generalities he
told his audience that the “responsibility rested on
them as consumers,” and that they should refuse to
buy goods made under sweating conditions. It was
an appeal, as usual, to the great heart of England—
just such an appeal as has been made any day
since the “ Song of the Shirt” was written two
generations ago, and the only result of all these
misty, hazy, vaporous appeals has been that the
sewing woman of to-day is far worse paid than
Hood’s victim, who “sat in unwomanly rags ply-
ing needle and thread.” It was an even more
futile appeal than that of Tom Mann, of theßeer-
and-Water Hotel, when he bids his audience
“arise.” The public can’t tell by looking at a
pair of pants whether the maker got 2Jd. or Is.,
and the glib draper will swear like Ananias, if
necessary, that she got eighteenpence, even if she
only got l|d. Nothing more utterly silly than this
reliance upon unorganised public opinion to put
down sweating by a vague flapping process of dis-
sent could be imagined. It would be easier
to put down the crime of burglary by the
pressure of public opinion than to put down
the crime of sweating by urging the gassy balloon
of protest against the ramparts of monopoly. The
only occasions when Britain has done anything
to diminish sweating were when, as in the case of
the women and child slaves of the coal mines, it
abandoned the fetich of non-interference, and free-
dom of contract, and free competition, and obedi-
ence to the alleged law of supply and demand,
and fell on the sweater with a huge, angry,
aggressive Act of Parliament. Yet the English
Labor member has learned nothing by the suc-
cess of the legislation which freed the child serf
of the coal mines, and the utter failure of a shape-
less public opinion to do anything for the serf of
the needle and thread. Ramsay Macdonald still
“ pokes borak ” at the Victorian Wages Boards
because they are not English, and believes
in the English fetich of free competition,
modified by vague harangues about “the
responsibility of the consumer.” In Victoria,
certainly, thanks to Upper House obstruction,
there are not enough Wages Boards, they don’t
apply to nearly all the trades in which they are
required, and they are restricted to towns instead
of spreading all over the country. But where a
Board did get room to say briefly and emphatically
that the sewing slave woman should have a
chance to earn 20s. or 255. a week for eight hours’
daily labor, instead of 9s. a week for 14 hours daily,
or something like that, it carried its point. It did
more in one week than 60 years of mere speeches,
appeals, remonstrances, whoops, and poetry ever
accomplished. The alleged law of demand and
supply, and the alleged law of wages, and the
alleged law of competition all went to Sheol
together when Parliament began to move. The
trader had possibly to do with a little less profit;
the landlord had perhaps to do with a little less
rent; it was necessary to build the tariff wall a
little higher to prevent the foreign sweater taking
the trade; but where the Wages Board system
was applied it carried its point every time. And
Ramsay Macdonald, filled with British self-
sufficiency and superciliousness, came here and
saw these things, and sniffed at them with the
lofty British sniff, and said that he couldn’t ap-
prove of them. They were un-English. And it
may be freely admitted that they are. Also Aus-
tralia thanks Heaven for it. There are certain
directions in which it is better to be damned than
to be English.
+
Congested Sydney.
The dangerous congestion of the narrow streets of
Sydney has led to a proposal for the construction
of tube railways underground. The idea may
have much to recommend it when simpler and
more obvious expedients are exhausted ; but at
present it looks like a case of building the top of
the house first and putting in the foundations
later on. The beginning of Sydney’s traffic
difficulty is that the existing railway isn’t
finished. Instead of running through the
city and over the harbor, it is sawn off short at
each end. The thousands of passengers from the
western suburbs, instead of being turned out at
one end of Wynyard-square, whence most
of them would walk to their destinations,
q,re dropped a mile from the city, and
have to make a wild-beast rush for the trams.
From this cause alone arises the tram congestion
in Pitt and Castlereagh streets. Passengers from
the northern suburbs, instead of being brought
straight into a big Sydney station, and dropped
at the other end of Wynyard Square, so that they
won’t collide with the western crowd, have to
make an ugly rush for a private enterprise ferry
boat, and then get trodden on in the chaos of Cir-
cular Quay while they race for more trams. Passen-
gers from the eastern suburbs hang on to the trams
like flies and congest the bottle-neck of Oxford-
street because there is no railway to Bondi or
Waverley, and there is no railway there because
there is no city station to bring it to. The first
step towards relieving the congestion of Sydney’s
streets is to finish the railway system already in
existence, by bridging the harbor and carrying
the line through from the present Redfern
terminus to North Sydney; but though
Carruthers, Wade and Co. are always prepared
to explain to the Australian Government how it
should print stamps, or otherwise fix up its own
business, this obvious and long-delayed job of
their own finds them paralysed. In fact, it seems
that there is no hope for Sydney’s city railroad
till the Federal authorities assume possession of the
lines and take the matter in hand. The next ob-
vious device for the relief of congested Sydney is the
widening and reconstruction of its worst streets.
The Mayor of the city asks why, seeing that
lightly-taxed country municipalities have the local
land-tax handed over to them for works purposes,
the (by comparison) heavily-taxed city shouldn’t
get its land-tax revenue—which now goes into
the State Treasury—as a reconstruction fund. On
this point he can get no satisfaction at all. Of
course if the land-tax revenue were made available
for the reconstruction of the N.S.W. metropolis
it would be necessary to combine the 40-odd
municipalities into a Greater Sydney, so that the
whole reconstruction business could proceed
on one uniform scheme, under one cen-
tral authority. To have 40 separate bodies
doing 40 separate reconstructions, each one
with no regard at all to the other 39, would be
mere waste of money. But the urgent
problem of Greater Sydney, like all the
other urgent problems, brings up with a
shock against the dead wall of the same difficulty,
irremier Wadk writes about a column a day of
self-sufficient mullock, telling the Australian
Government how it should attend to its own
affairs, and a column being a fair day’s work for a
slow writer, he has little time to attend to mere
Estate business. And Sydney—neglected, dis-
hevelled, muddled by nearly 50 conflicting
authorities, badly-paved, crooked, and confused—
tools away its glorious destiny as the Queen City of
the .South while local politicians devise new
schemes for being insolent to their betters.
What Shall We Do With It?
Thk Sydney paper (the Telegraph) which, true
to its Calico- Jimmy traditions, leads the campaign
against the proposed self-respecting national de-
fence system, professes to see indications of grave
danger ‘ in the quarter whence support comes for
the idea.” The Bulletin blushingly admits that
ls P r °b a bly the ‘‘quarter” which has aroused
the dread suspicion that Australia is being urged
into organising a citizen army so that it may in-
vade Tooting and Slocum-by-tlie-Sea, and gener-
ally play disloyal Harry with the Empire. If it
is possible to reassure the frightened female by
any process of logic, let these facts be cited :
The citizen army of Australia will be under the control
of the Australian Parliament, and will notice liable to
be despatched to bombard Bath (even at The Bulletin’s
suggestion) unless by the vote of Parliament.
Since the citizen army of Australia will have to do the
voting for any war Australia is to indulge in, and, having
done the voting, will then have to turn to and do the
fighting, there will be the best of reasons why a vote for
war will be passed only under extreme necessity. It isjust
as likely to act with rashness and unreason as mild old
“ Whiskers” Ward of the Telegraph is to hit Mr. Lawrence
Foley on a lonely road without provocation. Having
declared war against Mr. Foley, who is vastly beyond his
size, he would have to do his own fighting unless Mr.
1 oley let him off with a severe shaking and an admoni-
tion ; and this makes the parallel complete. If Mr. Ward
"'ill consider how likely he is to unprovokedly assault Mr.
Foley with his bare hands in a lone, drear spot, he will
understand how likely Australia is to rush into war when
not driven thereto. It is one thing to howl for war when
that only means, as in England, the sending out of a
hired army, and quite another to howl for it when you
have to follow up your howl by shouldering a rifle.
Even the malign Bulletin would hardly be able to per-
suade Australia under such circumstances into a reckless
invasion of Ramsgate.
The Telegraph should try again. The argument
that to establish a citizen army would be a cut-
the-painter move is obviously absurd. It is
based on the assumption that a majority of the
citizens wish for Separation, which isn’t a fact;
and that “certain quarters” (meaning possibly
The Bulletin) wish for Separation, which also
isn’t a fact.
Overcoming Difficulties.
The Bent Government has just allotted 249
small holdings, under the Victorian Closer Settle-
ment Act. These are tiny areas—ranging from
four to 26 acres. For the 249 holdings there
were over 3000 applicants, and of these no fewer
than 2009 attended the Board’s selection meetings.
Out of the lot the Board selected 1815 as
“desirable applicants, of whom 1566 cannot be
satisfied until further land has been acquired.”
The Board added :
The settlers and their families, exclusive of those not
dependent, number 1507.
The Argus in printing these facts stated :
The eagerness displayed by the applicants was very
striking, and although they knew that each was only one
in 3000, they came long distances under the most trying
circumstances to attend the Board. Some walked 25 or
30 miles, others rode 100 miles on bicycles, or travelled
long distances by train, and had a long weary wait until
they could be heard. All this is evidence of a firmness
of purpose that is highly creditable, and indicates a
determination to overcome difficulties.
And one of the chief difficulties to be overcome is
the Argus itself. In the matter of the land
question the Argus follows the scriptural injunc-
tion of not letting its right (news) hand know
what it 3 left (leading article) hand is doing. Its
news columns frequently contain items like the
above ; and yet, whenever there is an attempt to
make land more plentiful on the market, or easier
to get in any way, the leading article comes along
with a scream about the confiscation of property.
Or we are told that “ there is no real demand for
land beyond what private owners can supply.”
In this sort of yes-no the Argus is rapidly getting
ahead of George Reid.
—— +
Heavy Cornsacks which are Real and Federal
Encroachments which are Bogus.
Apparently the appointment by the States of a
Hired Anti-Federal Grumbler at £3OO a year is a
mere waste of good State money. The Hired
Wailer is to keep an eye on all proposed Federal
legislation, and report when it trenches on “State
Rights.” Unfortunately the job of Stipendary
Weeper seems to have gone to a serious-minded
professional man, who is only prepared to grumble
when there is cause, whereas what was wanted
was a howling demoniac who would invent cause.
Therefore, despite the payment of a Hired
Grumbler, Premier Wade of N.S.W. finds him-
self compelled, in a certain matter relating to
cornsacks, to do his own cursing and grumbling.
Good money is going out to pay a dog, yet Wade
has to bark himself. The trouble is this : A
vast number of Australian wheat-growers have
found that they could make certain small economies
by packing their grain in gigantic cornsacks. So
they imported sacks like bed-ticks, and crowded
as much as 4001 b. into a single bag, and unhappy
wharf-lumpers had to drag these horrors about on
their backs all day long. It was shameful cruelty.
Men were laid up for long periods, and sometimes
permanently incapacitated for any save the
lightest work, by strains, ruptures, and other in-
juries. The huge weights are said to have caused
accidents, and even deaths. Appeals were made
to the heartless wheat-growers, to no purpose.
Appeals were also made to the State authorities —
who could have interfered in the interests of
humanity by refusing to carry the bulging mon-
strosities on the State railways, or by directly
prohibiting their use—but with little or no effect.
Then the case was carried to the Federal
authorities, who have some bowels of compassion,
and they decided to interfere while keeping strictly
within their own jurisdiction. So far as the Consti-
tution goes, the cornsack, while it keeps inside one
State, may be as large as a house ; it may hold
a ton of grain ; the railways of any State may
carry it even if it holds a ton and a half ; and ten
men may die every day in the struggle to lift the
dreadful things, without the Australian Parlia-
ment having power to interfere. The Parlia-
ment recognises that, and it doesn’t propose to go
outside its powers, even in the interests of
humanity. But Paragraph I. of Clause 51 of the
Constitution gives the Commonwealth control of
“Trade and commerce with other countries and
among the States,” and with a strict regard to
these powers the Commonwealth has the right to
The Epic of Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the epic of Australia.
(Epics should be rhymed,
But this epic will not be rhymed—
We have lent our rhyming dictionary
To a bloke
Who once won a five-shilling prize in a Limerick
competition;
Besides,
Rhymes are awkward things, anyhow,
And The Bulletin doesn’t pay any extra for even
the most scrumptious
And dinky rhymes;
So this epic—all this is a parenthesis—won’t
Be rhymed.) And now to get on—
This is the epic of Australia,
And it is chiefly an epic of diminutive animals,
like mosquitoes, and flies, and Bruce Smiths,
and grasshoppers and plague-rats, and anti-
Socialists, and rabbit microbes, and individuals
who say, “We Could Not Do It.”
And when
You consider the number of people in Australia
who say,
“ We Could Not Do It,”
And
The number of the things they assert They Could
Not Do,
(It ranges from the defence of
Their country
To the making of iron. We may raise pigs, but
Never
Pig-iron.) Well,
When you consider. . . But
This sentence has rather lost itself; still, in an
epic, sentences frequently get bushed ; so
we’ll start again.
(In epics you’re allowed to do that.)
Australia is the nation that Cannot Do Things.
They say so
Themselves. They are always saying so, or
getting the Sydney Telegraph
To say so for them ; and it makes this poet-bloke
Mad
To see that alleged paper’s continual insistence
upon the utter and awful inability of Austra-
lians to Do Things, and to find
That people pay a penny
Day after day,
Except on Saturdays, when the brown goes for
the World’s News, which is brighter and
better-edited and more truthful,
Just to find out that they Cannot Do Things,
And the latest Couldn’t-Do-It is
“An officer of long experience and high responsi-
bility in the post and telegraph services of
the Commonwealth.” —This is a long line, but
it is a quotation, and really, even in an epic,
cannot be helped—
Who (see last previous line) says that if his male
employees—
That is, post-office blokes—
Were called away for three weeks to camp and
learn how to boil a billy and shoot,
We Could Not Do it,
For the sixpenny telegrams
Must be sent,
And the penny stamp
Must be sold ;
(This epic is getting quite jumpy !)
And Deakin’s scheme of military defence
Didn’t
Provide for contingencies such as these. *
Therefore we
Could
Not
Do
It.
So, owing to our chronic inability to do anything
at all, Defence is off.
And when the Monkey arrives he will find the
post-office male-blokes
Peacefully selling stamps over the counter
(This is the epic of Australia).
For selling stamps is one of the surprisingly few
things
That Australians
Can
Do.
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN TH EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without any detention from your daily routine
work. Endorsed by the highest Medical Authorities.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced
you incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years’
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address—
“ EAROSCOPE” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars,
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph.
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
prevent the importation of empty cornsacks built
to carry over 200 lb. (that is the figure proposed,
and anyone who has carried 2001 b. loads for a
whole day will regard it as quite sufficient); may
forbid the putting on board a ship bound for a
foreign or inter-State port of cornsacks loaded
wfth more than 2001 b. of grain, and may
shut down on the transfer, by railway or road,
from one State to another, of cornsacks loaded
beyond the 2001 b. limit. These things are foreign
or inter-State commerce, and as the Common-
wealth has absolute control of such commerce it
has a perfect right to interfere. In fact, it is the
only body that has any right to interfere. Of
course, Gregory Wade, Premier of N.S.W., is
performing like a mad dog about “Federal en-
croachments,” but it is hardly possible for the
Australian Parliament to do anything without
Gregory Wade going on like a mad dog. It is a
horrible calamity that Gregory Wade is built
that way, and someone should present him with a
kennel on his birthday. And it is also in the
natural order of things that certain Sydney papers
support Gregory in this matter. But all the
time Paragraph I. of Clause 51 presents a massive
stone wall of legal authority that all the cursing
on earth can’t surmount.
The Old Soldier.
There seems to be a craze just now for recognis-
ing the wrongs of the old soldier. Says the cable :
Earl Roberts has appealed to the nation to subscribe
funds to rescue Crimean and Indian veterans from the
workhouse.
It is to be feared that Roberts’ appeal will not
meet with a very generous response, in spite of
the substantial sums with which some of the
royalties have headed the lists. It is not a question
for the public in its private and individual capacity
to deal with. In other words, it is not a case for
charity. If it is to be understood that the
workhouse, the last refuge of every Briton who
has made a failure of his life, is degrading to the
old soldier, it is the business of the Commissioners
of Chelsea Hospital to make provision to keep
him out of it. The normal pension for a private
soldier, discharged after 21 years’ service in the
infantry, is ninepence per day. It was a shilling 60
years ago, but the War Office reduced the normal,
and allowed certain contingent additions which
might, in rare cases, make the allowance Is. 2d.
That won’t keep the old man if he gets past work,
so he must go to the workhouse, if only to be
taken care of. The case of the British soldier
disabled by wounds or disease contracted while on
duty, and discharged after less than 21 years’
service, is worse. He cannot get a life pension.
He may get ninepenee a day for two
years, with the right to apply for a re-
newal, which may, or may not, be granted.
The real official feeling on the subject was shown
by the abolition of Greenwich Hospital for naval
pensioners 38 years ago. Most of the old fellows
who were turned out were sent direct to the
workhouses, where their little bits of pensions
helped the rates. That was one of the feats of
the great “Liberal” panjandrum, Gladstone,
and it’s to be hoped some people feel proud
of it. The benighted foreigner isn’t in
it for meanness with the Briton. The Dutch
maintain a small voluntarily-recruited European
army to garrison their Eastern possessions, Java,
etc., and provide those who have completed their
term of service, or have become incapacitated,
with a very comfortable home in a half-hospital,
half-barrack, where they are comfortably lodged,
liberally fed, and supplied with pocket money.
There can be no such scandal in Holland as the case
of the British ex-Captain of Royal Engineers in
Sydney, who, after 20 years’ service, is munifi-
cently provided for with a “ compassionate allow-
ance” of a halfpenny a day for each year of ser-
vice. He served in the trenches before Sebastopol,
and is now nearly 80. That such a case is pos-
sible shows how very superficial is the new-born
enthusiasm for the old soldier.
The Bursting of the Postage Stamp Lie.
Just as The Bulletin was going to press the
anti-Federal postage stamp lie, industriously cir-
culated by the anti-Australian press of Sydney,
burst with a loud report. The “ grievance,”
which ran to columns in the Sydney Telegraph
and almost moved State Premier Wade to call out
the police and seize the Federal stationery by vio-
lence, lay in the fact that the Postmaster-General
proposes to employ Cooke, of Adelaide, to print the
new Federal stamps, and that they will be printed
at the Federal capital, when there is one, instead of
at Sydney. The printing anywhere, save at
Sydney, seemed an outrage to Wade and the Tele-
graph, and the printing process which Cooke, it
is said, proposes to employ, simply, so it was made
to appear, showed the utter incapacity of Cooke
and the ignorance and baseness of the Australian
Government. Minister Chapman’s reply is brief
and to the point. Hitherto he has had
stamps printed at the State printing offices
in several capitals, but as Adelaide had
handed over its official Cooke to the Common-
wealth, the work there was done by that
Federal official. The results were curious.
Cooke, in Adelaide, did his little lot of stamps at
4d. per 1000. The cost of the printing by the
Victorian State Printer in Melbourne was
sld. ; by the State Printer in Sydney
7|d.; and in Brisbane the cost was Bd. These
figures naturally gave Chapman a high opinion
of Cooke. And when that official printed 2500
copies of certain public documents for £ll2,
when the Sydney State Printery asked £204 for
only 1000 ; and did another job for £6O, for which
Brisbane asked £65, Melbourne £lO6, and Sydney
£125; and when Hobart asked 12s. 6d., Melbourne
10s., Brisbane 7s. 6d., and Sydney 7s. 4d. for a
job which Cooke did at 3s. 6d., the Ministerial
opinion of Cooke kept rising. Of course it might be
that all these State printeries could do the
work just as cheaply as Cooke did it at Adelaide,
and were simply swindling the Commonwealth ;
but it is impossible to be sure of that. So the
P.M.-G. pins his faith, on past results, to Cooke,
of Adelaide. And when Cooke recommends a
certain stamp-printing process, and the N.S.W.
Premier (backed up, it is alleged, by the N.S.W.
State Printery) declares it to be ruinously expen-
sive and altogether absurd, the P.M.-G. naturally
replies that, on past results, he still pins his faith
to Cooke’s ability and economy, and doesn’t care
a darn for the advice of the Sydney and Mel-
bourne and Brisbane and Hobart people who
charged him such astounding prices in the past.
Naturally, he doesn’t regard their opinions as
worth much—not worth any more than Wade’s
opinions about a Federal capital.
Sydney Telegraph’s “military representative”
affects to believe that universal service is “ un-
English.” Small argument if it were, as that
would nob prove it un- Australian. But as a
matter of fact it isn’t un-English. From the
earliest days England believed in universal com-
pulsory service. The Statute of Winchester
(1285) provided that “ every freeman between the
ages of 15 and 60 years be provided with
armor to preserve the peace.” In the reign of
Charles I. Parliament agreed on the “ obligation of
every citizen to bear arms either in the country
force or in the trained band of his town or city.”
In 1757 the Militia Ballot Act established a
militia to be raised “ by ballot only, the principle
of voluntary service being ignored.” As late as
1806 Lord Castlereagh, speaking on the Levy-
en-Masse Bill, said : “ The principle of that Bill
rested on the undoubted prerogative of the Crown
to call upon the services of all liege subjects in
case of invasion; and the only power that was
added by that Bill was the power of organising
and training those men who were subject to this
exercise of prerogative, so that, in case of invasion,
the prerogative might be effectually exerted for
the defence of the country.” This last speech
puts with convincing logic the case for com-
pulsory training in Australia. We have already
compulsory service ; the Defence Act enacts that.
What is now aimed at is the logical corollary—
compulsory training, so that the service may be
worth having.
The S. M. Herald, in its Anti-Navigation Bill
plaint (3/l/’08), draws a beautiful —though quite
foolish and unconvincing—picture of the kindly-
hearted English mail-services, which “feed,” as a
matter of pure charity, the mere Australian
coasters. If it were nob for the forbearance of
the P. and O. and Orient cos. our coasters, the
Herald explains, would be rendered useless and
bankrupt, since the oversea cos. (but for the fact
that they are philanthropists) would surely do
their own coaling, and carry their cargo and pas-
sengers to terminal ports themselves. However,
the Herald, in the fine frenzy of its pro-
Englishism, omits to say any word on the “ feed-
ing ” done by the Australian coasters. All the
year local coasters may be seen putting lead con-
centrates and other ores, wool, wheat or some old
thing, into the oversea steamers. If it were not
for this “feeding’’the latter would have to go
light, or else drag up to Port Pirie, Maryborough,
and other out-of-the-way places themselves. They
make little side-calls when it pays, and for the
rest are quite satisfied to be fed. And then the
Herald proceeds to blither along like this :
Among the other penal enactments to which coastal
cos. are not subject, is the duty on stores consumed on
the high seas, and the £lOO fine for a colored deserter.
The Herald must be exceptionally vague on the
Customs law. The oversea ships only pay duty
for what they use on this coast; coasters pay duty
on everything they use, and (thanks to the Immi-
gration Act) they have no colored men to desert.
♦
Melbourne commences to have its usual mid-
summer feeling of uneasiness about its water
supply, and the Board of Works is “making
arrangements ” for gathering in the O’Shannassy
River, away to the east, among the ranges. After
that it thinks it will annex the younger and
cleaner reaches of the Yarra, above Woori-
Yalloak, and run the whole into a reservoir at
Mitcham, the highest point between the city and
the ranges. Even if this scheme were rushed, it
would be 15 months before a bucketful from the
new supply would be available, and meantime
there is only the Yan Yean and the Watt’s River
auxiliary. That the job will take 15 months to
complete isn’t, however, any reason for post-
poning the start; it is really only a big reason for
starting very promptly. At Christmas, Mel-
bourne’s large tank was down to the lowest level
known—l7ft. 2in.—and so dry was the soil on the
watershed that the s|in. of rain on December
27 and 28 only raised it to 17ft. 6|in. And Mel-
bourne uses 33| million gallons a day on an average.
A summer “scorcher” will send the consumption
up to 50 million gallons daily, and no reservoir on
earth can stand that for long. Bent’s city con-
sumes 64.3 gallons per head daily, as against
Sydney’s 38.5, and mops up more in proportion to
population than any other city known. As the
level at the Yan Yean goes steadily downward,
Stein, the fire-brigade boss, looks dourly at the
hoses and sprinklers pouring water away all night
and day, and wonders what would happen if a
weatherboard suburb like Footscray or Balaclava
got properly alight. The Bulletin pointed out
this ever-present danger some seven years ago,
and the Board of Shirks has been placidly con-
sidering the matter ever since. If it doesn’t get a
move on pretty speedily, the city will get too hot
for calm consideration one of these days.
V. A. Wordie, who for 25 years has been adorning
the anti-White Australian tales of Adelaide, died
in a hospital there the other day. A colored
brother from the West Indies, he was as fluent as
a waterspout, and won prizes for Literary Society
“ oratory,” and mixed up with church and Sunday-
school people, and talked, and talked, and
preached, until Adelaide—which loves “ respect-
ability ” above all things—got an idea that black
brother didn’t deserve to be shut out so resolutely.
It didn’t stop to think, some of it, that Wordie
wasn’t a fair sample of the discolored brother ; if
he had been a fair sample, he wouldn’t have been
as conspicuous as he was—the average discolored
brother is only conspicuous in the reports about
sweating, or outrages on lonely females, or in
connection with Board of Health discoveries.
And, anyhow, even as to Wordie, decent excep-
tion as he was, what did he do—except
talk? The “talky” type of nigger is common
enough in the Southern States of America and
in the West Indies, and he has been responsible
for probably more damage than any other two types
put together. Let S. Australia imagine 100,000
niggers, with one or two possessed of Wordie’s-
powers of speech to inflame them—one or two
Wordies who hadn’t got into the Sunday-school,
and didn’t have an easy, steady job as “ church
officers ”, to guide and keep their tongues in the
churchy way !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ When Knights were Bold.”
Theatre Royal “The Scarlet Pimpernel." Mati-
nees, “ Blue Bell in Fairyland.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Palace “Cinderella.”
Tivoli * Rickards’ 00.
The Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Olivia.”
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Theatre Royal “ Her Love Against the World.
Bijou “ Her Luck in London.”
Opera House The Klas Sisters.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
“D.” writes:—
Went to Waite’s buck-jumping show at Newtown last
week. It is a lecture-room in the University of Life.
Massed round the ring are the local Burgesses and their
Girls. The clerk-shophand type predominates. The
eyes of this brand of citizen blaze with the wild glee of
the physical weakling as some flank-rope-maddened out-
law ties itself into knots and rolls frenziedly on its rider.
Blood flows, and the Girl shivers. She would turn her
thumbs down and decree the death of somebody if she
could. As it’s the 20th century, and she can’t, she merely
squeals ecstatically and clings to her companion. He lies
unconvincingly of the equine savages he tamed in the
old roystering days when he lived “ out-back”—in the
employ of Hogan of Bourke, or McDougall of Nevertire.
Almost he begins to cheat himself in the matter. His
starved imagination flickers, and he reconstructs a lurid
past when he was not Perkins, the oppressed vendor of
tea and sardines, but another Perkins altogether—a
scourer of wide plains, the idol of hirsute bushmen, the
born horse-master. Perkins is not a habitual liar. This
is his pathetic protest, dashed in the face of harsh
Fate, against the grey eventless life that has been dealt
out to him—a life whose awful dearth of color is brought
home with sickening clearness at each successive melo-
drama he visits, but even more so at such a show as
this. Understanding, one ceases to dislike Perkins,
and in a measure sympathises with him. Nearby
is a person who arouses no kindly feelings.
He is stout, plethoric, odorous of cheap beer. He speaks
as one having authority, howling futile advice to “ Bill,”
“Art,” and the other riders. He knows nothing of horses or
horsemanship, nor of any sport; but he is found wherever
a fight or cricket match, or running or other contest is.
He pants to back his fancy, to wager one way or the other,
or, that failing, to fight someone. He is disregarded with
enthusiastic unanimity. He cuts no ice whatever. On
all hands he is diagnosed as the notoriety-seeking
Disturber—he who is to social life what the State Rights
nuisance is to that of politics. In the ring—tall, strong,
weirdly callous to danger—stand the four supermen.
They are the nearest things we have these days to
gladiators. Two of them are lame from falls of the
night before, one has his eye cut, the other is
sound. They do not attitudinise. They approach
the animals that are driven into the ring in the
stolid spirit in which a tram-guard advances on his car.
Withal, they are marvellously alert and careful. They
are alive because they have always been respectfully
watchful in regard to the wild horse. Like all sport-
champions, their deft quickness is amazing. Waite—an
incomparably “ strong ” horseman—has exactly the sure
alertness of a Trumper or a Roberts. Once aboard the
outlaw, no effort on that astounded animal’s part (so long
as it remains on its legs) will move a rider with the grip
and balance of Waite. That is understood and applies to
at least one other of his companions. Waite’s supreme
art is shown in mounting, in falling clear when the horse
throws itself, in handling ring-escapees, and so on. Out-
standing is a dauntless indifferentism, which is far above
mere pluck. The Australian kid who plunges in and gets
hurled yards in the air from one or other of the manage-
ment’s ponies shows courage ; as does the “ gent from the
audience,” who is deposited on his head at the first move-
ment of the first “ stock ” bucker he bestrides, but the
Waite variety of bravery is epic.
** * *
Frank Thornton, that most strenuous of
humorists, continues to coin money and the
vociferous approval of his audiences at Sydney
Criterion. Nor is he the only boulder on the
Geach beach in this regard. “When Knights
Were Bold ” is acted for every atom it is worth by
an exceptionally strong band of mimes, and looks
at the time of writing as full of running as a
Gentleman One bound for Peru with a carpet-bag
full of trust funds.
** # *
“Blue Bell,” at Sydney Royal, bears up
between 2 and 4.30 each afternoon, both in at-
tendance (regarded as a show) and in avoirdupois
(regarded as an entity). As a side-result the local
small girl is, for the most part, badly stage-
smitten. The immature female who, despite
parental protest, insists on fracturing the Sabbath
(and other) peace by her reading of the “Blue
Bell ” rdle, increases ominously. It’s the only re-
proach that can be levelled at this excellent show.
#* * *
The Bulletin is compelled to state for the
third time that “The Scarlet Pimpernel” is still
blooming successfully in the evenings at Sydney
Royal; and the packed houses add nightly, with
tears, to the general moistness when Ola Jane
vainly beseeches her aggrieved husband not to
longer neglect to kiss her.
** * *
“The Girls of Gottenberg ” still appeal to
the Sydney crowd that didn’t go to Her
Majesty’s while the holidays were on, for fear of
Getting entangled with the whiskers that Bogga-
ri had brought down with it; and there isn’t a
whisper as yet of a change in the bill.
** * *
“Cinderella,” at Sydney Palace, goes on
filling that charming doll’s house with a crowd
which is nearly as merry as the other crowd that
surrounds the Countess O’Brien on the stage.
** * *
West’s Pictures at Sydney Glaciarium are
catering for the swimming public by a special
reproduction of the “strokes” and fancy feats of
the sport. Then there are pictures of Australienne
Annette Kellermann, and they are, these warm
•days, strictly seasonable.
** * *
The Sydney Tivoli show of this week is
the twin brother of last week’s, but as last week’s
wag a very fair entertainment, there is nothing
for the public to repine over. Edwin Boyde is
the largest star on hand, and pays the rent of his
bit of sky with several good songs. Tom Burrows,
who recently brandished two pieces of wood
without stopping for 63 days (or was it weeks ?),
waves two more bits gracefully for several
minutes. Thomas E. Finglas—whom the pro-
gramme insists is the Ideal Coon—shows emotion
by slapping his legs and dancing back and forth.
The four Eugenes hurl one another across the stage
in a reckless but entertaining fashion. Martin Hen-
derson shows how the concertina should be played,
but isn’t. La Sylphe floats gracefully on the tips
of her toes. Tom Dawson is genial and weird,
and a number of other deserving people are too
numerous to mention. The reason The Bulletin
never mentions the “first part” is because it is
too solemn a Function for ribald comment. It
strikes one in much the same way as does the
laying of a foundation stone or the opening of
Parliament. Where the “first part” is concerned,
levity is out of the question.
“ Olivia,” a free adaptation of “The Vicar
of Wakefield,” by the late W. G. Wills, appeals
to the curiosity of a limited Australian public
which has read the book, or is familiar with its
bearings and characters. The audience at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday night may be pre-
sumed to have had, for the most part, a sufficient
knowledge of Goldsmith’s simple little story to
make the play interesting, and all the local news-
paper notices of the performance were written
from that non-general public’s point of
view. But inasmuch as the average young
person nowadays would rather run a
mile than read “The Vicar of Wakefield,”
this notice in The Bulletin regards “Olivia”
from the common or Gothic point of view, and,
looking at it as a new and original pastoral
domestic drama, clothed in the garments of 1766,
feels sorry for its chance of commercial success.
The staging is pretty—too pretty as regards the
apple tree in the Vicar’s garden, the leaves
whereof remain unnaturally green after the fruit
has ripened. The cuckoo-clock strikes the hour
whenever required to add its note of old-
time domesticity to the situation. The church
bells ring, and the villagers sing, and the dis-
guished hero of the piece trolls a sober rondelay
in good style, and the girls look rather as though
they had come out of the Ark; but the general
effect of “Olivia ” is equally unreal and unexcit-
ing. Early in the piece the audience knows that
the disguised hero is hovering around with the
intention of making everybody happy, conse-
quently the shadow of poverty on the Vicar’s
threshold is seen to be a delusion and a sham.
For the rest, the Vicar’s gullible pet daughter
elopes with a seducer who is so flabby in his
wickedness that the amphitheatre never dreams of
hooting him, and when he turns_ out to have
been lawfully married to his victim, owing to
circumstances over which he had no control,
the young woman is expected to hail the joyful
Christmas morn with all the other members of the
Happy Family. The beginning of the Ist Act
holds out a promise of grotesque love-making
between Moses and Mary Flamborough, but the
quaint, calf-like couple pass out of the story,
leaving a few faint ripples of laughter in their
track. There are three more acts, with long inter-
vals between, and never another meeting of Mary
and Moses. The joke goes out, and they are in
the dark. One misses them sorely. The hollow
plot is hung around with artistic stage pictures,,
to be sure, but the prevailing color tones are
sombre, whilst the figure of Mr. Burchell, the
Benefactor, loses dignity through being too fre-
quently requested to withdraw. The good man
rarely appears on the scene without being desired
to get out.
Strange to say, Herbert Flemming, as the
Vicar, is, next to Winter Hall (as Mr. Burchell),
the most satisfactory of the principals. He suits
his heavy weight of flesh and manner to the
character of the country parson. Like all fathers
and uncles in ancient narrative, he is absurdly old
as compared with the children who receive his
blessing ; nevertheless the question as to why he
got married so late in life, and what sort of Past
he had in his celibate state, doesn’t suggest
itself to the onlooker. He is not the Vicar
whom Goldsmith created, but he seems built
to the requirements of this play—a plump,
pleasing Christian gentleman in comfortable
circumstances, prone to forgiveness because
anger, hatred and malice are bad things for
the liver. Miss Beatrice Day acts with artistic
restraint the part of Olivia, and is specially ad-
mirable in the scene where Thornhill tells her she
is neither wife, nor maid, nor widow. Alas ! she
utterly fails to realise the part. There is nothing
youthful about Miss Day’s appearance in a Dolly
Varden gown. She was charming as the elder
sister in “Quality Street.” She has all sorts of
attractions save those of the unsophisticated
damsel—the Olivia or the Marguerite. In this
part Miss Day shines only by comparison with
Miss Elise Clarens, who impersonates Sister
Sophia. A. S. Homewood is a passable Squire
Thornhill, and Miss Nellie Mortyne—back again,
after another absence in England—helps the show
along with her neat and decorative performance
of Mrs. Primrose. A few other people are wel-
come when they happen.
# * «
At Melbourne Royal, Eric of Strathmere,
Paladin and noble Earl, finishes the altercation
between Saxonia and Ravensberg nightly, by the
capture of the chief disputant under particular
but delicate circumstances. He’s the typical
Hinglish hero of Hinglish melodrama asserting
his Bulldog breed in a foreign land, is Eric the
Earl, and, considering his nationality and pug-
nacity, his side lines of king-making and king-
undertaking do not appear so astonishing after
all. In passing, his friend, Maurice of Saxonia,
threatens to develop animation on subdued lines
very shortly.
** * *
Melbourne has passed a resolution—with
no dissentients to speak of—to the effect that
“Humpty Dumpty” is worth all the money
spent upon the production, and all the profit that
the future has in store for it. What was humor-
ous or dazzling in “Mother Goose” is more
amusing and more feastful to the eye in this year’s
panto. The evenings and the matinees are the
third week of “ ’Umpty,” but the rush for seats
continues as before. At the matinees, Bert Gilbert
and Phydora and the four-legged-animal come-
dians introduce an Omnibus Scene which is
crowded out of the evening bill. Also Miss Flor-
ence Young varies the proceedings by taking a
matinee off, once in a way, on which occasion
Miss Morgan plays the boy that Florence was,
and a Miss Harris cuts a golumptious, symmetri-
cal figure in Miss M.’s usual place. The supply
of golumptious female is inexhaustible.
** # *
On Saturday night, at Melbourne Bijou,
the Anderson co. tried “Her Luck in London,”
and the lady’s luck proved to be out. A farmer,
Stephen Harborne, has a set of savage principles
of a Mosaic mould ; also a brace of daughters. One
is a lean embodiment of the Women’s National
League’s platform. She discourses on subjects
of which little girls should be ignorant, and does
nothing but her dee-uty. The other has an
ebullient bosom, and an outleok on life to match
—all palpitating and undisciplined. Attached
to the Harborne family is a necessary
excrescence—the comic circumstance in two parts.
Comes to this establishment a heavy villain from
London. In all the pride of an obsolete top-hat
he attempts to seduce the Ebullient Bosom. On
his verbal eloquence he fails. But when he prof-
fers £240 to his intended victim she accepts
it graciously, saying she’ll give it to her
stertorous parent, that he may prevent the
’appy ’ome being sold up the following
day. Whereupon he of the hoary hat scrawls
a note, which he sandwiches between the bank-
notes, describing the noble sum as payment
for favors granted. Papa Harborne reads the
billet-doux, and makes a scene, and after trying
to shoot Richard Lenowen in his tarnished frock-


“H.E.C.”: Bulletin (26/12/’O7) credits
Tait with introducing the Yankee “Stop, Look,
Listen.” notice-boards at crossings. Methinks
junior Commissioner Hudson was responsible, as
“ Stop, Look, Listen ” boards were in use on Tas-
manian railways years before the Smoke of Tait’s
big cigar hove in sight, and as Hudson hails from
Tassy it is probable that there was a “Stop, Look,
Listen ” board among his luggage.
• Erom an article on Australia by Ben
Tillett, ■ British Labor leader, in John 8011,
30/11/07 :—
There is a real shindy going on between the State
Parliaments and the Federal Government. Tariff, and all
the make-believe of it, seem to absorb the attention of
everyone, and in the meantime the price of food is in-
creased 20 per cent, to 50 per cent., without giving a cent
by way of Customs duty to the Commonwealth. The
State secret leaked out, and all the monopolies, as is their
wont, promptly and coolly declared their bond, and
pocketed hundreds of thousands of pounds, especially in
the tobacco trade. The cost of living has roughly
advanced five shillings in the pound, and every com-
modity of daily use, although no cent additional has been
paid to the coffers of the Commonwealth, is yet enhanced
without any reference to wages. . . . Here the out-of-
work literally starves, and poverty is made acute. . . .
There is a vigorous movement growing for secession, the
latest complaint being the Federal members putting £2OO a
year on their salaries. . . . There is an American cheer-
fulness of corruption, Federal and State.
Which, for reckless, ignorant lying, beats any-
thing the much-abused “capitalistic press” has
ever ventured on. British Labor leaders arriving
at an Australian port should be called upon to
pass an examination in the principles of veracity.
That would act as a satisfactory measure of
exclusion
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
&
The OLDEST MUTUAL
Lowest Rates Charged.
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETSi SYDNEY.
and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
THEjONEff/IND
'"PHE February number is now ready for the
1 press, and, following the usual custom,
Bulletin readers are allowed a preliminary peep
into its contents.
About stories: Ambrose Pratt’s absorbing
romance of the Northern Territory, “The Big
Five,” grows in interest as it proceeds ; the reader
is now brought into the midst of stirring adventures
and a highly original love story. A story by the
late Frank Myers, “Dick Wilgabah and the
Cat,’’ is hinged on a bush yarn current about the
late millionaire Tyson, to explain his woman-
hating turn of mind. Edward Dyson and Arthur
Adams continue those fine series “Two Battlers
and a Bear ” and “ The Experiences of Clarence.”
Erie Cox contributes a stirring medical yarn,
“Reprieved,” which has a real throb in it.
Howard Ashton’s mediaeval story, “The Father,”
with illustrations by Norman Lindsay, will be
one of the features of a brilliant number. W.
Sabelberg’s “A Business Proposition ” is another
good yarn, and “The Giggle Newspaper C 0.,” by
“ Kodak,” is a bright, bustling bit of humor.
That’s eight first-class stories for one shilling—■
or rather one-third of a shilling, for there are two-
thirds of the February Lone Hand to be told of
yet!
About the art features. The cover is an
excellent picture in colors by M. E. Roberts.
The frontispiece—in three colors—is one of Minns’
fine studies of the Australian aboriginal. Norman
Lindsay contributes humorous pages—“ A Scan-
dal in the Farmyard’’and “Autograph Hunters.”
George Lambert, Douglas Fry, Hans Heysen,
Lionel Lindsay, Alice Muskett, Laurie Tayler,
and G. Ross are the other artists represented.
Yerse is by Ethel Turner, Hugh McCrae, P. E.
Quinn and Victor J. Daley.
As to the articles. Well, the articles will be
the feature of the February Lone Hand. But
about them we’ll talk next week.
Make up your mind now to send a year’s sub-
scription for The Lone Hand, to the office, or
to the nearest news agent. Subscriptions may
begin from any month.
12s. a Year, Post Free.
The Hand
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
coat, and being restrained from punching the
Bosom by an incidental parson, he turns both
offenders out.
• * • »
The next scene is Cupid’s Lounge, a pri-
vate bar, of which Lenowen is licensee. An all-
night sitting is m full swing. Here Nellie of the
Bust is the star barmaid, and serves beer, clad in
a ball dress. The habitues call her * 4 Saucy ” and
she tries to live up to her nickname.
Lenowen lounges round, fencing the amorous
attacks of a mature lady called “ Gabs.”
This party is fat and funny. When
“Gabs” gets annoyed, woman-like she
never disarranges her war-paint by personal
exertion. She comments on her injuries by
smashing the nearest glass— at someone else’s
expense. Lenowen warns “Saucy” that an Irish
youth with a large income is coming to the den,
and instructs her to wield her charms to the demo-
lition of Erin’s innocence. She cheerfully
agrees. The Irishman, the Hon. Gerald
O’Connor (played with a squelchy brogue
by Geo. Cross), engages the lady’s affections
m one round, and “Saucy” departs from the
aegis of her earliest patron. She is next dis-
covered under the able chaperonage of “ Gabs,”
within an hour of wedding the noble Gerald.
She commissions “Gabs” to reveal the story of
her life to her lover, before they are tied up for
ever. “Gabs,” an enterprising lady with an eye
to future blackmail, refrains. And the stalwart
Bosom and the Oirish brogue are made one, without a
disturbing element. Meanwhile, the stern Stephen
Harborne is in pursuit of his missus aud his erring
girl. He is in waiting for the wedded pair on their
return from the registrar’s, and after trying to
maim the bridegroom, is reconciled to them both.
“Saucy” and her lord take a little Mary-Ann
villa by a river that creaks audibly when rowed
upon. Here they gather round them all the
virtuous characters in the cast, and the plot goes
on. It goes on until the bad man of the Bell
Topper is arrested by two fat policemen for trying
to murder the Bosom and the Brogue, although
the Brogue, by the way, has been pretty persis-
tently murdered from the outset.
• * * •
The acting of this complicated invention
is better than might be expected by even the
sanguine. Miss Granville plays Nellie Harborne
with enthusiasm. In appearance and method she
is suggestive of Nance O’Neil before that large
person learnt to make the best use of her attri-
butes. Miss Gladys Grant, as the virtuously un-
pleasant sister, strikes a fairly dramatic note
in the last act, and is consistent enough.
Lillie Bryen isn’t decorative, but she is real as
“ Gabs, the old dear ! ” Laurence Dunbar looks
like a villain, and sounds like an actor. And the
epileptic father of Edmund Duggan, the hero of
Geo. X., and the irrelevant characters represented
by other people, are exactly similar in essentials
and details to their chronic performances of such
entertaining capers.
** * *
The value of West’s Pictures is enhanced
by their up-to-dateness. Nowadays, the cabled
paragraphs of happenings other-where are some-
times followed by the actual records per film,
which T. J. West acquires before the inci-
dents have lost their interest to the
spectator. At present, the maiden voyage
of the latest Cunard liner Mauretania occupies the
sheet for a space, and, in a week or two, the
attraction may be the departure of Uncle Sam’s
Armada for the Pacific. While history is being
built in this engaging fashion, the annoying per-
son with a plank, and the energetic pig, are two of
sundry rollicking episodes that fill the gaps very
passably. But the one thing wanting with West’s
Pictures at Olympia is a pungent title to advertise
the show by.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House the name of
Klos looms large on the bill, and the three Sisters
of that name are received with many thanks.
Everything in their “ turn ” is lovely, except the
two incidental men who come on to shift a chair
or pull ropes aside when the three Klossies are
about to accomplish another delightful feat. The
men should be retired in favor of a pair of as-
sistant female cousins, for the “ turn ” itself is a
triumph of the allegedly weaker sex. There have
been Amazons who toyed with dumb-bells and bars
of deceptive bulk. But they were beefy. The
Klossies are not so obviously muscular as remark-
ably graceful, and each particular move in their
entertainment is a picture.
* * *
Adelaide Tivoli wisely got Price and
Revost to make a return visit for the Test-match
week. The Royal is still putting up lurid melo-
drama, played by a company about 21 times too
good for it. The management humorously admits
all ministers of religion free to its play “A
Warning to Women.” Continental evenings are
booming, and are more suited to an Adelaide
January than any indoor show.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Miss Carrie Moore is about to enter into a long engage-
ment with Mr. William Proctor, of Manchester, and will
leave the stage after her marriage, which is fixed for
March.
There is understood to be a lot of money waiting for
Melba in certain districts—such as Albury, Wangaratta,
Bendigo, etc.—where Voice is a subject of animated dis-
cussion. And Melba, it seems, having almost decided to
turn her notes into gold in those districts, will probably
give some country concerts before arranging any grand
opera performances in Melbourne—if they are to happen
at all.
A photograph (from L'ILLUSTRATION, Paris)
of British Labor leader Richard Bell, sent by
telegraph from London to Paris. There is no
doubt that within a few years photographs will
be cabled from one end of the world to the other,
and the lot of the levanting criminal be made still
more unhappy.
“ Willie W. T. ” : Hundreds must go to the Rum-Butt
concerts merely to feast their eyes on the magnificently
massive Clara and the handsome, cultivated Ken. I
missed parts of the songs because of the cackle and
the acrobatic feats of females, who stood on chairs, and
on men, and other handy things. They fell off and got
on again, and swayed about, craning their scraggy necks,
while the badly-used men and furniture creaked omin-
ously. “ I seen him lovely ! Don’t ’im and ’er make a
lovely pair?” I heard hardly one criticism or comment
upon The Voice ; but there was a gushing chatter about
’ow ’im an’ ’er looked, and they certainly looked well.
‘Melb.” : At last, our new theatre is begun, or, to be
exact, the necessary demolition is begun. This involves
the disappearance of the three-storey building in Russell-
street, west side, erected or improved for the Young
Men’s Christian Association, about 30 years ago. Mrs.
Moorhouse, the bishopess, laid the memorial-stone.
There were on the parapet statues of Faith, Hope,
Charity, and other parties who are still at large.
Faith mysteriously disappeared—probably during the
boom when Confidence was lost. Jos Symes got
the place as his lecture-hall. Hope and Charity
became Minerva and Venus, or something. Next,
Bowes’ Tattersall’s ran the show, and the statues,
presumably, became Repecker and Rachel. How many
theatres has Melbourne had? I omit various names of
one building. There have been the Victoria (near Bull
and Mouth), Queen’s, Royal, Olympic, Varieties (Criterion
Hotel, Collins-street), Varieties (Bourke-street, after-
wards Opera House), Prineess, Prince of Wales (Lonsdale-
street), Pantheon (Cremorne), Haymarket, Bijou, Poly-
technic (at various times used for plays), St. George’s
Hall, and Alexandra or Her Majesty’s. What is to be the
name of the new theatre? It ought to be the National,
or the Australian, or something like that.
“ William N.” : lie the recently-reported bursting of
the Australian aborigine into a social butterfly. Abori-
ginal musicians from Cummeragunja mission station, near
Moama (N.S.W.), derisively termed by rivals the “ Snow-
flake Minstrels,” supply nearly all the music at the
cookies’ dances in that district. The band consists of a
couple of violinists, a pianist (when an instrument is
provided), and a gifted individual who places a folded
gum-leaf on his tongue and produces flute-like notes.
Harry Rickards would rush the latter artist if he knew of
his existence. The whole combination can be engaged
for an all-night performance for 10s. and an occasional
pull at the bottle which the M.C. keeps hidden in the
scrub.
Miss Mai sie Maxwell, a bright, forceful girl who played
soubrette parts in Anderson’s touring co., has been en-
j m' , Me >' neU anc i Gunn for the dramas wherein Miss
Maud Hudyard performs amazing deeds of wickedness,
the middle-aged characters will fall to Miss Maisie, and
being a conscientious young artiste with some talent for
make-up, she will doubtless make an earnest endeavor
to be as old as she looks.
“Melb.”: Flemming stages Wills’s “Olivia,” by
arrangement with H. B. Irving, who seems to reserve
plays like “The Bells” and “Charles I.” to star in here
himself. “ Olivia” is mighty refreshing after mummies
and humming birds, and such like. Vezin was the first
Vicar in Wills’s version. Irving just acted it to oblige
Miss Terry. Indeed she gratefully mentions a number of
pieces, like “The Lady of Lyons,” “Romeo and
Juliet, and “Madame Sans-Gene,” put on for her display,
Nor was Irving at home in his somewhat admired Bene-
dick. She says he was too slow and pragmatic—same
fault as Titheradge’s in Australia. She wanted the part
acted snappily, to correspond with her Beatrice. Even
her Portia never pleased her, because she thought Shylock
ought to be loud and strenuous in the trial scene, to show
off her idea of a quiet Portia. But Irving was quiet, dig-
nified, noble. So he made her flamboyant. She had to put
in all the high notes, contrary to her taste. Reverting to
“Olivia,” Rogers’s Vicar, in another version, will be re-
membered by Sydney and Melbourne Old Timers as a
beautiful piece of work.
Apart from the unrealism of the whole thing, the first
act of “ The Mummy and the Humming Bird ” is signifi-
cant, or, rather, amusing on account of Lumley’s sudden
acquirement of the Italian language. That gentleman is
presupposed to be entirely ignorant of the rudiments of
the tongue. He invites organ-grinder Giuseppe to his
table, fills him with soup and chops, and enters into a
conversation by signs and gesticulations. In all respects,
Lumley is, in the beginning, the intolerable English
person who yells the louder to be understood. But, so
soon as Giuseppe’s narrative becomes interesting as a
piece of scandal, Lumley follows the Italian without
effort, and betrays his own interest by involuntary bits
of translation, delivered in a meditative voice. Thus
the scientific individual who, at the commencement,
obtains the merest drift of the story by a rather cute
arrangement of decanters, etc., in the end finishes by fully
understanding without aid. The arrangement of decanters
is palpably intended to do duty again at a later stage of
the drama. Giuseppe, in the warmth of his excitement
relates his tragedy at express speed, though his know-
ledge of his allegedly native tongue appears to be limited
to Macaroni’s First Italian Course. "La mia povera
Emma piangeva," Giuseppe howls, gradually approach-
ing the strident climax of “ Vendetta ! Vendetta ! ”
“ Your poor Emma was crying,” says Lumley, with a
miraculous guess at the meaning. “La mia Emma
morel!!” “Died! poor Emma 1 poor girl 1 ” murmurs
the aristocrat, guessing once more. Indeed, this miracu-
lous guessing becomes rather monotonous and wholly
ridiculous. The only thing that strikes one as surprisingly
accurate is Giuseppe’s awe of the butler, whom he calls
“ Excellency." That is natural enough. The butler is
an overwhelming flunkey.
“D.”: “0.K.” protests (9/l/’08) on behalf" of all Mel-
bourne musical folks” who object to hearing Melba
honestly criticised. But “ O.K.’s” weak point is that he
does nothing but protest. Protest is no argument. The
humblest and most unmusicianly house-dog could protest
with the best in a matter like this. To be convincing
“0.K.” needs to combat some of the points urged in sup-
port of the view that Melba, at 49, isn’t the marvel she
was at 39. Here they are: (I) The even quality
that used to distinguish Melba’s voice of old
is gone. There is no local music-lover who
understands, and is courageous enough to speak his
mind, but mourned this plain fact the other day.
Huneker, the soundest of the New York critics, and one
of the best, probably, writing in the English language at
the present time, noted the tragedy two years or more
ago ; and the Paris critics (sturdy speakers of their own
minds in art matters) had on this point forestalled
Huneker. (To 99 per cent, of English critics Melba may
still be “ the unsurpassed diva ” at 80, if she chooses, and
if she lives.) (2) Melba’s topmost notes are failing. She
recognises the fact herself, and hence, in her recent
tour, essayed none of those sensational heights she scaled
with such ease a decade ago. (3) She strives per-
ceptibly in her bravura passages. Ten years back
she sang each bar and note of “Faust” as effortlessly as
another person might talk to a wayward child—or critic.
Finally (4), how does “0.K.” reconcile the fact that
Tetrazzini has been engaged for the Covent Garden
seasons 1908-9-10 (not to mention the Conried-Hammer-
stein struggle to book the Florentine singer for New
York) with the contention that Melba’s voice is the peerless
thing it once was ? Melba is a big shareholder in the co. that
controls the Covent Garden productions. Lord de Grey,
Higgins, and the other authorities there are her intimate
friends. She is the most personally popular of all great
singers with the opera-going royalties, whose opinions
(however artistically valueless) count for so much in
England. Would the arrival of twenty Tetrazzinis have
served to shake Melba’s supreme position one iota 10 years
back—in those days when the idea that there could be
any other perfect Juliet or Lucia or Margharita seemed
preposterous ?
Maxim’s, the widely-known and ultra-fleet Paris restau-
rant-bar-music-hall-show-ballroom combination, is for
sale, the price asked being £104,000. At a glance, it looks
cheap at the figure. All male (and most female) foreigners
visiting Paris sample Maxim’s at one time or another, and
get most delightfully shocked in the process. It’s
a characteristic of English-speaking peoples that
they will go to places abroad which they would die
rather than enter at home. The British matron,
attended by the British father (both looking as
though they had been sharply, albeit pleasingly, stricken
speechless by an outraged Heavenly Bolt), are common
sights in Maxim’s, in close proximity, mostly, to food and
an under-clothed young person, executing the latest dance
and yelp. As the perfectly delicious prospectus published
by the would-be vendors in the current London papers
(for the idea is to sell the concern in London) hath it:
“Champagne flows at Maxim’s like water, and bank-
notes change hands there as freely as do coppers at a
country fair on a market day.” Also, “ The price of the
champagne is thirty shillings a bottle and upwards at the
period of the ‘ warm, voluptuous night.’ ” And likewise,
“ A pair of audacious eyes may flash alluringly from over
a glass brimming full of champagne.” The problem is
why this ideal money-making establishment should be on
the market, and, above all, on the English instead of the
French market. Irresistibly the thought obtrudes itself
that the Paris municipal authorities are tiring of Maxim’s
and its freak dance exhibits (without which the establish-
ment’s profits would slump horribly); and that the pre-
sent owners are hastening to get out of the perpendicular
moisture.
The Ceylon Times published a thrilling story of the
recent King’s Birthday Ball at Guv’ment House, Colombo,
when Albani figured as the guest of honah. The intro-
ductory ceremony must have been a treat, judging from
Australia’s latest recollections of the Diva. “ Scarcely
had the Queen’s House party seated themselves than
H.E. the Governor, Lady McCallum and Mrs. Albani were
observed to rise. An unexpected treat was in store for
the gathering. Something unprecedented in the annals
of the Queen’s House balls was about to take place. Miss
Barbara Layard, the oldest resident of the island in the
room, and Miss Eileen McCallum, the youngest resident,
were being given special positions with a totally unob-
structed view of the Diva. Scarcely had the movements
been perfected than Mrs. Albani began to sing the
National Anthem. It does not require to be mentioned
that there was scarcely a movement during the glorious
performance.” The Ist chapter of the Book of Genesis is
certainly short of one important verse. It omits to
mention that “On the eighth day the Lord said ‘Let
there be guff,’ and there was guff.”
A dress rehearsal of the marvels that were to transpire
on the wooden track at Prince’s Court, Melbourne, was
promised for Thursday night last, but, owing to lack of
an illuminant, nothing happened but the unpleasant re-
flections of a somewhat scarce audience. However, on
Saturday night the track established a sturdy re-
putation. Banked at both ends to the incred-
ible angle of 12-13ths of the perpendicular, it
compels riders to move considerably in order to stay on ;
also it forbids them to slow down suddenly. But, being
far less dangerous than it looks, the Track may be said to
exhaust its thrilling novelty in a dull sense of disappoint-
ment for the public. The whirl is “Fast, Furious, Fas-
cinating ” (vide advt.) until the eye grows accustomed to
it, after which the spectacle is just a bike race—mere,
monotonous bike race.
Harry Rickards, who keeps his ’alls as “clean ” as any
’alls anywhere, had an alleged comedian on the carpet
the other day. Rickards explained that the jokes
wouldn’t do, whereupon the astonished comedian, re-
ferring to one gag in particular, shrilled : “ Why, damn
it, sir, I’ve been working that off for twenty-two years,
and you are the first to see anything suggestive in it.”
The land in Russell-street, Melbourne, on which the
new theatre is to be erected for William Anderson, was
purchased at a sale in Sydney in 1839 by Stuart Alex-
ander Donaldson, the first .Premier under Responsible
Government, and Messrs. Betts, Panton and Co. mer-
chants, of Windsor. There were two half-acres with
three frontages—to Bourke, Russell, and Little Collins
streets. Donaldson’s half-acre cost £152 ; Betts’ £133
At this sale the upset price was £75 the half-acre. At the
first sale, held in Melbourne by Robert Hoddle, in June
’37, there was no upset. On Donaldson’s half-acre, on the
corner of Russell and Bourke-streets, stood in the ’fifties
the Hummums Hotel, kept by Tom Nunn, an old circus
ringmaster, who put out in front of his house Melbourne’s
first drinking trough, with the legend, “Drink, and let
thy cattle drink also.” As very few people liked to be
seen drinking out of the same trough as their horses, the
invitation didn’t spoil business much ; men came into the
Hummums and had their beer as usual. Whenever
Clarance Holt produced “ The Corsican Brothers,” Tom
Nunn was the double, he and Holt being remarkably alike.
Mr. Gustaf V., of Sweden (this seems a
frightfully vague address; why don’t the cables
give the gentleman’s initials and street number?),
has declined to be crowned. He says he can’t see
the sense of putting a thing like a spiky dog-collar
on his head while all the fattest and oldest people
stand round in ridiculous clothes, and the Lord
Chamberlain rushes along the outskirts of the
mob organising the display, and hunting away
unauthorised persons and dogs. Mr. Gustav
seems to be an unusually clear-headed person for
one of his station. As a matter of fact, there is
no more need for a man to put a piece of metal on
his head than there is to put on a log of wood, or
a fowl, or a muffin. There are millions of things
that a sensible man never wants to put on his head.
“ J. A.C.” writes :
I had the honor of knowing Lord Kelvin, who died the
other day at the age of 83. I knew him, however, from
afar—as a satellite might know its planet. I was then,
40 years ago, a student at Glasgow University, and
“ Wullie Thomson ” was professor of Natural Philosophy.
Even at that period, his fame was world-wide. At the
same time, W. J. Macquorn Rankine was professor of
Civil Engineering, and in his work on the “ steam-
engine ” there were certain mathematical problems which
we students used to firmly believe only he and Thomson
could solve. As an electrician, Kelvin had no superior on
earth. When the first Atlantic cable was successfully laid,
it was found to be impossible to transmit messages along
it, and Kelvin, then plain Wullie Thomson, was appealed
to. He found that the current from an ordinary galvanic
battery was too powerful for such an immense stretch
of wire. (This sounds paradoxical, but electricity is a
queer critter.) Accordingly, instead of employing dilute
sulphuric acid, as is usual, he filled the cells of the bat-
tery with sawdust, moistened with water, and used the
reflection of a small jet of flame, thrown on a screen, as
an indicator. The arrangement worked admirably. It
was William Thomson who made the Atlantic cable
speak. That was in 1866. The operators at the British
transmitting station on the small island of Yalentia, off
the coast of Kerry, Ireland, were afterwards known as
the “Slaves of the Lamp.” On one occasion Kelvin
made a thrilling experiment on himself. He was ex-
plaining to his class that while a current of 3000 volts
would instantly kill a man, a current of hundreds of
thousands of volts would not injure him. To demon-
strate this he had a storage battery charged to the ex-
tent of 300,000 volts, and proposed to try it upon himself.
The class rose in a body, crying to him to try it on the dog.
Kelvin smiled and asked, “ Don’t you think I have made
my calculations ?” and immediately passed the tremendous
charge through his body, unhurt. Kelvin held numerous
patents, some for most trivial things. Nothing which
might be of service was too small for him to tackle. Like
the elephant, he could pick up a pin, but, unlike the
elephant, he sold the pin after he had picked it up. He
made science pay, and died worth about a million. Like
all great men, he was modest. When Li Hung Chang was
entertained at Glasgow University, he said openly and
impressively to Kelvin, “ You are the greatest scientific
man in the world,” and the most uncomfortable-looking
man present was Kelvin. His title came from a small,
slow, and not too clean affluent of the Clyde, the river
Kelvin, on the banks of which untidy stream Glasgow
University is situated.
The sportsmanlike spirit in which the
Australian audience received the defeat of their
XI. at Melbourne, evoked responsive appreciation
from all quarters. England, in particular, over-
flowed with admiration. But the spirit of good
sport is always to be absorbed from D.C.L.
Whisky, and all good cricketers and sturdy
barraekers drink of that famous brand. “A
drop of D.C.L.” is the most popular sporting
phrase on any cricket ground.
THE PERFUMED GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To hide the pleasure of her breast,
When my bold gaze on Clara fell,
Lurked violets of sweetest smell,
All by her sweeter breath caressed.
And thus she wove a subtle charm
About her being. Night and day
I’d dream of her if but to stay
My dreaming on her snowy arm.
Until alas ! the gay coquette
Became a foolish fashion’s sport.
And foolishly she poured a quart
Of scent about her hair of jet.
Alas for me ! The bitter deed
Has quite upset the moonlight spoon,
And played sad havoc with the moon
That often smells of aniseed.
She thinks my love is growing cold,
And coaxes me with gentle guile.
She asks me why I never smile,
And her at full arm’s length do hold.
Nine stone of girl is good to see
If she be fair as Clara Dent ;
But drown her in a quart of scent
And she is a calamity.
Girls ! if you wish to keep the beaux,
Blue violets and mignonette
Will weave a subtler, surer net
Than cheap cologne and low-priced rose.
And many a man the far earth roves,
’Cause, when he went to kiss a girl,
His tongue got tangled with a curl
Of hair that smelt of rum and cloves !
TAS.
THE GHOST.


120 PAGES OF ILLUSTRATED
SALE REDUCTIONS.
Next Monday, January the 20th, our Annual Summer Sale commences,
throughout the Catalo>!:ue > illustratin S and pricing the principal reductions
WE SEND IT POST FREE.
This year we have more generously reduced our goods than in any other previous Sale The
Summe*r Ue Sale S f ° r ltB6lf> ,f J ’° U Cannot Ca “ and view the bar^"s - This is our Annual
SALE GOODS CARRIAGE PAID.
We pay carriage on all goods excepting Furniture and Floor Covering to any Post Office
Railway Station or Seaport throughout the Commonwealth, so that you buy at our Sydney Sale Prices.’
A 5% DISCOUNT FOR CASH OFF SALE PRICES
Is allowed during this Sale as a special inducement to encourage cash trading. The reductions nn
the goods are not in any way effected by the discount. Write to-day for our Catalogue if vou
cannot call on Monday. J 11 J ou
DAVID JONES LTD.,
SYDNEY.
The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridge Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
hZ Zs. per annum upwards—special policies for your
special needs.* J
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty andchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, xO/ and 30/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE BOY’S CAPACITY FOR ENTER-
TAINMENT.
1ST BOY: “ I’m having fust-rate luck.”
2ND BOY: “ Yes? ”
1ST BOY: 4 4 Saw a motor-car accident ester day.
Two old women run over. Was right near
it, and saw it lovely .”
Some seamen are not particular. Here is
the advertisement of one of them, taken from the
Age :
QEAMAN, 42, own house, Fremantle, like correspond
plain young servant girl, view marriage, child no
objection. W.S.T., Age Office.
Did any philanthropist with a house of his own
ever advertise before for a plain girl with no
money and an “incumbrance”?
That most dangerous of all frauds—the
so-called Indian “doctor”—bobbed up at Sunbury
(Vic.) again lately, and called himself Molla Bux.
He volunteered to cure farmer Murray and Mrs.
Murray of sundry and manifold ailments for £3
3s. In return for a deposit of 10s. he handed over
some medicine and a box of pills, and desired the
pair to use them regularly and often. Presently
Murray acquired doubts as to the virtue of
Molla’s remedies, so he disguised himself in his
wife’s haberdashery, and, heavily veiled, called
on Dr. Molla Bux, and consulted him for an
alleged complaint of the eyes. Bux assured the
“lady” she was blind of one eye, and had a
cataract in the other, but he would guarantee to
cure her for 255., cash down. Subsequently
Murray returned, having removed his wife’s
haberdashery; and then, though he was still
wearing the same pair of eyes, Bux could find
nothing wrong with them. At this stage Murray
got a little sense, and introduced the police to
the precious “doctor,” who cured cataract for 255.
when there was no cataract to cure ; but, unfortu-
nately, a fool Bench decided that the charge of im-
position could not be sustained, because there was
no false representation of existing fact. Then the
police laid a charge under the new Vagrancy Act,
and the beaks dismissed that also, presumably on
the ground that Bux had ample means of support
so long as the supply of fools held out.
* * * «
“R.D.”: In Cairns, Townsville, Winton
and Richmond (Queensland) a new disease has
arisen. The Sunday Liquor Act is so sternly
administered that the Sunday drinker now takes
his beer down at a gulp for fear it will be torn
from him by the sudden and ruthless police. The
frequent shock of half-a-pound of beer striking
the base of the stomach in a heap causes corns on
the innards, which gradually lead to ossification,
and a most painful state of things ensues.
* • * *
Part of Melbourne’s holiday crowd —the
part that humped itself down to St. Kilda beach
and sat on the dirty sand in the broiling sun all
day and consumed ice-cream and lukewarm
lemonade, and dwelt on the “ocean wave” and
the merry-go-round while the perspiration ran off
it—is evidently possessed of lively inquisitiveness
or the beginnings of a “ Nonconformist con-
science.” It happened to notice the word
“ Novar ” on a small brass plate on a garden gate
along the beach parade, and remembered the
Wallace case. The gate was locked, so the crowd
swarmed over the fence, broke open the entrance,
and hundreds—men, women and children—
streamed into the garden—the big, white house
stands far back from the road—and proceeded to
express their disapproval of “Novar” and the
carryings-on therein, as alleged by Mr. Wallace’s
witnesses. Heaven knows what their idea was—
whether they thought a taste of rope’s end might
do Sosso and Bunny any good—but they simply
bubbled over with suppressed morality and out-
raged virtue, and they talked as though they
would have given “Novar’s ” inmates what-for if
the police hadn’t arrived and bundled them out.
“Stony” : About the most joyful job
going at present, in Melbourne, js surely
that of the male fitter employed by a female-
blouse-made-to-order firm. “ Have you a
lady fitter?” I asked, one day. A volup-
tuously-fleshed, youngish hemale answered
me. He had a gentle color in his cheeks,
and looked as though Keeper of the
Harem would be just his size. “O,
noo ! ” he breathed, “Ai fit!” “You
measure, that is?” “And fit,” he
murmured. “Is there any privacy?”
1 demanded. “O,” the youngish
fat person looked at me, rather pet-
tishly, “when the lady is changing
her . . . blouse . . . she is er—alone ! ”
And he looked at me with a mildly
surprised eye. “ Then you come in and
‘fit’ the blouse?” “Huh—yes!” he
sighed, dreamily. Consider, now, that a
try-on blouse is, as a rule, only one-
sleeved, and mostly buttonless, and
generally breeze-blown, and more or less
undone fore and aft; and then imagine
the fat voluptuary tenderly snipping, and
patting, and pinning, and pulling, and
pecking about among the secret places
of the blouse, and breathing heavily, with
an affectionate, purring breath upon the
beautiful, round, bare arm and lily-white
neck of his “ patient ” —and ... well, con-
sider it! A “ tailor-made ”is one thing ;
but a blouse made by a pot-faced male
hosier would seem to be quite a different
matter.
The dingy two-storeyed terrace of five
houses which has long been an eyesore at the
corner of Moore and Castlereag’n streets, Sydney,
has now been demolished, and on the site the
new club house for the Bagmen of N.S.W. will be
erected, chiefly by means of the profits which the
bag-gentlemen have made by supplying themselves
with liquor. The drummers constitute a very
wealthy club, and their new quarters are to be
magnificent. The building will be eleven storeys
high, with a roof garden and promenade on top,
level with the tower of the Australia, near by.
The front elevations are to be entirely of stone,
which bagmen would gladly import if they only
could. As a class the commercial travellers are
an aggressive symptom of Australia’s importing
disease, and the size of their club is probably in-
tended to rub in the fact that it is a very big
disease indeed.
The Salvation Army’s Suicide Bureau ha£
been a failure in Melbourne. During the time
the London Bureau treated 1500 alleged would-be
suicides the Melbourne bureau had only three
callers. The army officials say there is no
despondency in Australia. And in one sense
why should there be ? Isn’t Bill Lyne’s tariff
getting through fairly well ?
PENETRATING.
MRS.: “ How cold it is. I’m chilled to the hone !”
MR.: “ What, through all that?"
There are still a few spots on earth where
people seldom go and the cheap phonograph is
never heard. The world is terribly crowded nowa-
days, and what few savage places there are,
explorers visit with cameras, and “write up” in
the magazines. The big tramp steamer Queen
Helena passed one of the really lonesome
patches the other day, while on its way
to Sydney from Honolulu, in ballast. The
lonesome place is a little dot of an island
named Sophia, somewhere in the blue waste of the
Pacific, and, as the records on board asserted it to
be uninhabited, and said it had last been visited
by a British warship as far back as 1870, the
Queen Helena people felt interested when four
men were observed on the beach. The steamer
was hove-to a couple of miles off the land, and
signals were made to those on shore, but, although
the ship waited for some hours, the men on the
beach made no sign—just stood and stared back.
Disgusted with their want of manners, the Queen
Helena, after a while, spun round and foamed
away on its course, leaving the silent men
an unexplained mystery. Castaways, whalers,
treasure-seekers—whatever they were, they evi-
dently had no wish to be disturbed, and let the
big ship depart without even waving a shirt.
(People on desert islands are always expected to
wave their shirts.) Perhaps they had been there
for 37 years, and had become loony.
* * * «
The first, card drawn by the new S. Aus.
Act for the suppression of Naughty Places came,
not from the sinful city, but from the country,
where Tottie and her sister Flossie Fewclothes are
popularly supposed to be non-existent. A resident
of a townlet, with a population of about 50
humans and 100 goats and dogs, forwarded to the
Government a statutory declaration, signed and
sworn before a -T.P., with a shilling stamp affixed,
to the effect that a lady leaseholder thereabouts
was not supported by the succulent pumpkin
alone. He said that her iron and bark humpy
was a “place” within the significance of the Act,
and due to be dealt with ; and Mrs. Premier Price
is rushing Premier Tom away to England in great
haste lest he should have to make personal in-
quiries into these deep and dark mysteries.
* * * *
So bad has the reputation of N.S.W. fruit
become, through the neglect of the State Govern-
ment to destroy insect pests, that it is now
bounced out with equal contumely in Westralia,
Victoria, Maoriland and places in general.
When Victoria moved in the matter its action
was set down to mere jealousy of the Ma State,
and Westralia’s conduct was ascribed to that
State’s anger at not getting its transcontinental
railway. But last week Maoriland rejected and
destroyed every pear in a big N.S.W. consign-
ment owing to it being infested with fruit fly, and
the position grows serious. It is up to Wade to
spare half-an-hour from his stiddy job of denounc-
ing Alfred Deakin, and see if he can’t have a
cleaning-up.
“ Philo ” on the bill-of-fare :
“Paul Cu‘pid l ”says (B. 7/11/’07): “There is only one
doctrine for the person who dogmatises against mating-
unclean feeders, and (hi't’s vegetarianism ’ No! The
Jewish dietary laws prohiblx the consumption of all
unclean feeders —the pig, and other -nitoals.that do not
chew the cud or have not cloven hoofs ; trfs lobster and
its relatives, the crab, oyster, prawn, etc. ; anaCTr rarda
of prey, and many of the water-fowl —and yet the Jews
r absorb as mtlcw
animal food as
any other people.
The Jewish law
provides a special
treatment for all
animal food be-
fore being cooked,
which thoroughly
cleanses it and re-
moves any taint
that the diet of
the animal may
have caused. It
is, however, con-
sidered impos-
sible to thus
cleanse the pro-
hibited animals.
Moreover, the
pig-eater very
nearly approach-
es cannibalism,
as the intestines
of the pig closely
resemble those of
man. It is, also,
of all animals, the
most subject to
disease. To this
particularity in
the matter of food
is attributed the
Jews’ immunity
from consump-
tion, and the fact
that they are, by
a very wide mar-
gin, the longest-
lived people in
the world.
The Jews’ ex-
tra capacity for
hanging on to
life is men-
tioned here in
the loose way
that it is men-
tioned gener-
ally. Still there
are not many
figures on the
subject, one
way or the
other. Mulhall,
whose “Dic-
tionary of Sta-
tistics ” isn’t
itself as young
as it used to be,
certainly shows
that in Ger-
many (1841-66)
the deaths of
Jewish males
yearly were
19‘8 per 1000,
as against 30'2
per 1000 Chris-
tians; but then he also shows that in 1867
in Russia the Jews’ span of life was esti-
mated at 29'4 years for the male and 31'1
years for the female, as against 32'9 years for the
Protestant male and 36'2 years for the Protestant
female. So Mulhall doesn’t settle the question
satisfactorily, and that constitutes a grievance
where statistics are concerned. Anyhow, the last
very ancient public man whose death was recorded
bore the name of Murphy.
The Adelaide Municipal Tramways Trust
is getting itself disliked. The new electric
system was to be the best in the world, and was,
moreover, simply going to rush through to com-
pletion. Not a pick has, however, yet been put
in the ground, although January 1, 1908, was
mentioned gs the date when Adelaide would
whirl in its new cars. Now the employees who
still flog the same tired old horse in the same de-
crepit old oar have joined in the universal growl,
and threaten to strike, in which case Adelaide
will get there quicker, although it will have to
walk to do it. The chief complaint is that men
from the other States get the lucrative jobs, and
as lucrative jobs aye scarce in Adelaide, the intro-
duction of outsiders is held to justify almost any-
thing up to civil war.
* * * *
It is announced that after Easter the
Roman Catholic Church in Australia will not
acknowledge as valid, but will consider as no
marriage, any unions of Roman Catholics (“ even
those who are excommunicated or may have
become apostates ”) unless celebrated by the R.C.
clergy. It is a somewhat “steep” programme,
and the logical complement of it is that, if a
Catholic marries one woman in a Protestant
church, the R.C. clergy must be willing to marry
him again to another woman in their own church.
Any clerical gentleman doing that wilfully would
find himself in an awkward position, yet if he
didn’t do it wilfully he would acknowledge the
previous marriage as a bar, and the previous
marriage couldn’t be a bar unless it was a mar-
riage. And the Church says it wasn’t a marriage.
MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
News from the East states that Dr. Elberts, a German
geologist, who has been conducting researches in South
Sumatra, reports ihat the discovery of the ape man re-
ported to have been made at Trinil is false. He has found
human remains which he estimates are 20,000 years old,
but they are human, not simian, and his discoveries are
directly opposed to the Darwinian theory. —News Item,
I stagger under the weight of years that is heaped upon
my head,
I’ve stared at the sun till my nose is burnt a Socialistic
red.
The nations crumble, the seas creep in, the stars fall out
of the sky,
And I alone of the lot survive, and I know not the reason
why.
I’ve ranged the Universe through and through—the
oceans cradled my keels ;
The jungle stole on the towns I left and covered my
orange-peels !
The wild beast’s fashions in legs and tails have altered
from time to time.
And I have sat on a rock and jeered and made me a
foolish rhyme.
I’ve made religions and clothes and crafts—-built cities,
and ships of wood,
They kept me from thinking why I was, but most of ’em
weren’t much good.
I got civilised when I wanted to—and it cost me lots
of pain—
Then smashed things up when I felt inclined, and took
to the woods again.
I’ve raked the Earth for a million lives —my dead hulks
litter the sea.
One lonely question worries my brain—the old, old riddle
of Me.
And now and then— say once an age—l ponder that
awful One,
And give it up in a rage, and shout, and shake my spear
at the sun.
lam the best of the whole turnout—l can’t be improved
upon,
I've been the same inside and out while the ages have
come and gone.
The rumor low of a tail is false —all things bow to my
sway,
I’m the original perfect Man—l’m twenty thousand to-
day.
K.S.W.
KODAK.
HIS CAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vogue, an American sassiet.v paper in which Democrats
and Republicans slavishly study the clothes and move-
ments of the royalty and nobility they affect to despise,
fulsomely says : “ Ever since his accession King Edward
has gladdened the hearts of his people by frequently
motoring through his capital.”
A transformation swift and sweet
Makes a sacred grove of the London street,
And a petrol stink that lingers there
Falls like ambrosia on the air !
The wail of the slum-bred babe is stilled ;
The sick are cured, and the hungry filled.
The slaves of the sweater are all set free,
And sandwich-men dance on their boards with glee.
For the priceless gifts of the gods are brought
On the wheels of the Royal juggernaut;
And sorrow and care are driven far
When the King flies by in his motor car,
vie.
H. GOLDING.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumati—-rrJngs approved and used
by NVedical Men.
CURES
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc.
BEWARE
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “Electrical” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
“ Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in AustralasiaJ, 45*47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Chamberlain’s Tablets prove highly bene-
ficial in all liver troubles, entirely removing’
biliousness, and in so doing will clear away all
skin eruptions, such as boils, pimples, and
eczema.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
-LI
-i
%
. SUMMER UNDERWEAR.
In the Summer-time one wants Underwear that is specially
comfortable —absorbent and cool.
To possess these desirable features, Summer Underwear
should be very light and fine in texture, and fit in the most
perfect manner.
blue, red-tipped underwear
lis ideal Underwear for the warm weather, and it embodies all
the above good points.
Price, 5/6—Undershirts or/Pants—All Sizes.
ORDER FORM. PEAPES LTD., Sydney,
Please send me Undershirts. My chest measurement
is and Underpants. My waist measure-
ment is
Name
Address
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
MEN'S jt Jt
OUTFITTERS,
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Victorian Education Department dis-
covered lately how it was there had always been
so much sickness at the Faraday-street School,
Uarlton. It had postponed much-needed altera-
tions as long as it could, but at last something had
to be done, and a contractor set to work to
demolish certain closed-in galleries before enlarg-
ing the class-rooms. His men got some powerful
sensations when tearing down the galleries, and
finally a cargo of disinfectant had to be splashed
round. In those galleries were papers bear-
ing dates of the 70’s, old books, exercises, remains
of lunches fruit skins, dead rats, and other abomi-
nations- Between the cemetery on the one side
and that State school on the other, the Carlton
doctors ought to have done well these last 30 years.
* * * ,
“Sr”: A colored gentleman, last week,
adopted the coolest way this hot weather of book-
ing a passage to the Outback. When his body
was dragged from the Yarra, a letter addressed
to the coroner was discovered in one of his drowned
pockets. It contained the words : “ I have been
a resident of Victoria for 1 5 years, and my only
virtue is that I drink. But for that virtue I
would have been far more elaborate.” “Ear
more elaborate ”is a good phrase. And what a
beautiful text for a Jud sermon : “Do not take
strong drink, and thou wilt be elaborate ! ” See
the 14th chapter of Public House, pint 10.
ONE!
BOSHER THE BILE: “'On's things, Egbert?”
Egbert (pavement artist, eheerfully): “Oh,
tonkin up, yer know, tonkin’ up. brother
artist sold one, the other day, for £150."
Lloyd Byrnes had pleaded guilty before
the Narrabri (N.S.W.) J. P. “ The charge is dis-
missed,” said the,T.P. The bobby sub-inspector
remonstrated. “ Well, I fine him 105.,” cried the
honorary. Yet Chief Secretary Wood is about to
inflict another gang of such “honoraries” on
N.S.W. If men are needed in remote parts to
witness official documents or perform other purely
formal legal duties, why not confer the power on
schoolmasters or postmasters, keeping that power
distinct from any right to sit on the Bench of a
Court of Law or exercise any judicial authority?
If Chief Secretary Wood has any just conception
of the state of the “Hon.” Bench in Outback
N.S.W. he will hang up his list till the General
Resurrection.
Another of the poor little municipalities
that crowd around Sydney has just rushed up in
time to shoo the bailiff off the doorstep ; but it
was so pushed that it couldn’t do the thing in
a legal way, and now the Mayor is being
roasted for doing it the other” way. The
delightful feature of the case was that the
mortgagee wasn’t Moses Cohen or any
bowelless banking concern, but the Scotch-
byterian Church of N. S. Wales. The
kirk had lent its bit o’ siller on the
assets of Enfield, an ancient suburb
which consists mainly of cowvards and
holes that bricks have been taken out
of—a damp, cheerless wilderness that
hasn’t even got a sewerage system,
and which freezes out the finnickin’
upstarts who from time to time sug-
gest that the system should be intro-
duced—where it can be introduced,
which isn’t everywhere, Enfield being
so largely the hole or the bog pre-
viously mentioned. Naturally, being
that sort of a place, Enfield’s rates
can be reckoned by tuppenees, and
the kirk’s interest wasn’t paid, and
the instalments of principal fell into
arrear, and a notice was issued that
on account of the non-prompt pay-
ment the kirk’s interest would be 1
per cent, more, as provided in the
bond. And when even that didn’t
do any good the kirk started out to
look for a bailiff, while the Mayor
chased round to find a bank or a pawn-
shop or any old thing that would lend
Enfield enough to get through on.
Enfield’s own banker wouldn’t—pro-
bably because he knew Enfield—but
the Mayor at last found one who would ;
and so the kirk won’t have to go into
possession, and it won’t put the bailiff
into the places where the rates are un-
paid, and Sydney will miss the chance of
seeing Dill-Macky milking 11 cows be-
fore breakfast, and John Ferguson driving
a puddling machine.
“ Caro ” comes across the home of
the dead:—
Riding: aimlessly one wonderful moonlight night, I
stumbled by chance on an old bush graveyard among the
hills, verily a desolation of desolations. A rough log
fence that had withstood the storms of many autumns
and the tortures of the drought, lurched unevenly around
the graves, where the flag lilies and wild irises sprawled
in dense matted millions. There were no white head-
stones extolling the virtues of the underneath, but here
and there on the rough, mostly-obliterated mounds a
wooden cross slewed drunkenly, or lay prone among the
weeds. A warren of rabbits throve in a corner, and an
oak, weary with age, cried incessantly above the
fence. There was never a place so lonely as this
home of the long-forgotten dead. From the ranges
came eerily the crying of night birds along
the ridges, and the distant rustle of their wings
as they flapped stealthily across the gullies. A dingo
was snuffling among the logs and pattering in the dry
leaves, and his sudden maddened flight, and the discord-
ant echoes as he loped across the valley, seemed to
accentuate the silence. A yawning hole gaped from one
corner of the place, and there in the weeds white bones
gleamed startlingly from the shadows. It might be a
sheep that had strayed to die in this place, or a wild dog,
or perhaps ? The moon was waning to wanness
when I rode away softly, leaving them lying there be-
neath the incense of the lilies, in the silence of the ranges,
amidst a sea of whispering grass.
Twenty years ago, the Cold Tea legion of
Brisbane erected, in the local Botanic Gardens, a
drinking fountain, inscribed “For God and
Humanity and Home.” Now no self-respecting
dog, let alone God and Humanity, would drink
out of it, for a generation of green slime is
accumulated at the bottom, and the mud and the
water-beetle and the tadpole are in possession.
This sort of thing is a reflection on the cause.
The bottom and foundation of the beer can bear
inspection, and if the fountain can’t keep pace
with the beer-pot in cleanliness, it is calculated to
drive away rather than attract supporters.
Constables and ex-constables have great
faith in the provisions of an Act of Parliament.
One has only to talk to Tom O’Callaghan, the
boss policeman of Victoria, to realise that fact to
a certain extent. To appreciate the point to the
fullest extent, however, one has to read the case
of a Melbourne ex-constable who was lately
charged with using indecent language in a public
place. The ex-cop. denied using the language,
explained that as he “ was not feeling very
well ” on the morning in question, he went up to
the Government Printing Office “to have a look
at the Health Act.” It may be that he was
merely repeating some of the provisions of that
Act when discovered by the man who was still a
Robert. However, the ex-officer was fined £2.
* * * ■*
Same obscure person was once heard to
remark that the reason the Englishman is such
a good earth-grabber is because he finds nearly
every country better than his own. The observa-
tion has a wad of truth about it. England in
winter is only fit for the rich to live in. This year
the frost has fastened its teeth in the throat of
Britain’s starving legions, and the deaths by
exposure are already numerous enough to be
noticed by the cables. The man with two thick
coats on hurries along to his office rubbing his
hands. “ Ah-h my boy ! Fine bracing climate
this ! Nothing like frost, my boy ! ” The man
who has slept out lies stiffly in a dark alleyway,
and shocks a decorous policeman by not moving
on when requested.
* * • «
“ Hiphen ” at a function :
Was at a military wedding recentlv. A tying-up of
this sort is an awe-inspiring spectacle, but it is a bad
mistake so far as the bride is concerned. The chief
difference between a military wedding and the ordinary
millinery one is that the centre of interest is shifted from
the bride to the bridegroom.
The sweetest of brides, dressed in miles and miles of
train, mosquito-netting, floral decorations and happiness,
has “no earthly ” as a spectacular pageant against the gold-
laced, stripe-panted groom. It is like a peahen challeng-
ing a peacock to a beauty competition. The bridesmaids,
too, are eclipsed by the uniformed, gorgeous groomsmen’
and have their little lights hidden beneath a bushel or so
of gold lace.
The ordinary black-coated civilian is named Mud, and
not much of that.
I, myself, was cut out with no less than six of the only
girls I ever loved by a few callow youths with tin swords,
gold lace, and brass fronts.
There was nothing left me but the drink.
Full of emotion and wine, and stirred to my innermost
recesses by the splendid sight of the magnificent military
gents, I cast round for the senior officer to tender my
felicitations. I found him in the vestibule. I knew him
directly because he looked so much more distinguished
than the other officers, and his plain, dark uniform was
in so much better taste.
“General,” I said, “allow me to congrat’lash you on
splen’d performansh. When I get married, General,
you
“ ’Old up, sir! Steady hon 1” he interrupted. “ I’m
the ’all-keeper.”
A man charged wit-tefiHempting 40. wtablk
the Melbourne-to-Adelajp6oM{fo£i|B eJ^^edkc© s
arrest that ho "just
train would do.” A that sort
calls for permanent shelter 1 Axhr^^vlurfSvV,
* . "
The way of a man with Si'.’SdJid offcerft'
passes understanding ; but the haft
with the maid’s father is sometimes moreTfrysteri-
ous still. In Adelaide, the other day, a man laid
his heart at the feet of his lady love, and inci-
dentally stowed a persuasive weapon in his pocket
to lay on the head of her guardian in case he
should object to the suit. He did object, where-
upon the wooer invited the angry parent to come
and have it out. The angry parent came and has
been sorry ever since, for, according to the police
version, the wooer settled the other person’s objec-
tions with a spanner. The dramatic thing, of
course, to follow this would be the seizure of the
girl as spoils of war, only unfortunately the police
got m first with a charge of attempted murder.
* * * *
“These dens are places of abomination,
inhabited by most undesirable people.” Thus did
Mr. Nisbett, police magistrate at Temora (N.S.W.)
refer to the abodes and habits of a number of the
saffron-colored gentlemen to whom Bruce Smith
publicly acclaims that a large portion of his heart
has been assigned. The following extracts from
a report in Sydney Telegraph (26/12/’O7) are
worthy of note:—
The huts inspected were all in a dirty condition, and
the surrounding yards were strewn with bones, old bags
skins, decayed fruit, etc. Decayed vegetable matter and
disgusting d6bns were scattered about. There was
no ventilation in the civilised sense of the
term to any of the places, and some of
them were insecure and falling to pieces. Dr
Cookson recommended that the whole of the places on
the east side of the Tringle.v-road be, if possible, de-
stroyed, and that the inspector of nuisances be instructed
to inspect from time to time. At present the camp
taken as a whole, is a menace to the health of the rest of
the inhabitants of the district. . ..
Great are the possibilities from an educative point
of view if only Messrs. Bruce Smith, Menvale,
W. E. Johnson and co. could be induced to pass a
month in the company of their colored friends in
camp at Temora.
* * * *
Elijah has arisen, and sent his message to
the Water Superintendent at Lithgow (N.S.W.)
where there is drought
The reason of the drought prevailing in the County of
Cumberland and some other parts of N.S.W. is because I
am living near Sydney, poor and despised, against the
will and true purposes of the Great God, Creator of Adam
and Eve. Every effort of mine, both by writing
and orally, to clergymen and others professing
the Christian religion, for over 12 years past, have
been rejected and ignored by people who don’t
understand the true purposes of the Bible records
I have power to get a good rainfall accomplished within
three days in any place where I stop, provided I have a
written guarantee, signed conditionally, to give me at
least £5O sterling for a registered rainfall by the gauge of
at least 100 points within the time. I am, yours faith-
fully, Elijah, known as James Onan, the special elect
adopted son of the Great God, Alpha and Omega, the
King of Gods, the King of Heaven, Dulcyville, Pernhill-
New Canterbury-road, near Canterbury, near Sydney.
It is at least a more definite postal address than
that of the old Elijah, whose location by the
brook Cberith must have been a trouble to the
Israelitish letter-carrier.
* * » *
“ Hiphen’s ” warning :
Since the Rev. Judkins’ courageous—nay, heroic ex-
posure of the pub-monger who sowed beer on the foot-
path to reap the maddened boozer, I too have been alert
for the enemy at our gates.
I find that in one of the leading pubs in this very city
is a horrible trap. The doors of the said pub swing in-
ward and bear the legend “ Push—don’t Pull.” On the
reverse side is the notice “ Pull—don’t Push.” Therein
lies the trap.
To get inside that pernicious pub is easier than taking
lollies from a baby. You simply lean your weight on to
the door and find yourself in a rich, fruity atmosphere
heavy and stiff with beer. But, ah friends, how difficult
is it to get out again 1
Many a respectable citizen who enters there for an
innocent last drink before going home to his wife is
caught in the toils.
He starts to come out; sees the notice “Pull—don’t
Push ” ; tries to think it out, and is lost.
He has “ just one more ” to clear his brain, then goes to
the door and pushes. The door does not move. He re-
reads the notice ; goes back and consults the barman.
The well-trained barman quickly hands him a beer. He
drinks it. He is lost some more.
He has another, then attacks the door again. This time
he pulls. But the door is stiff, and the beer has not left
him sufficient strength to drag a fly off a joint of meat.
He thinks of his wife and children waiting for him. He
commences to weep. The beer oozes out of his eyes. He
grows thirsty. Alas, more beer 1 He forgets the door 1
He forgets his wife 1 ! He forgets his kids !! 1 He for-
gets himself! ! ! 1 He forgets Judkins 1 1! ! !
At closing time you will see the remains of a once ‘
respectable citizen climbing the pavement and earnestly
requesting the policeman to “ spull nosh push.”
* • * *
A pair of lovers in Albert Park (Melbourne)
suffered shock one night recently. Albert Park is
the meeting place for the youth and beauty of
four suburbs, and on the evening in question the
great reserve was full of honorable proposals for
entry into the holy estate of matrimony. Henrv
and Cecilia, sitting under one particular fir in the
Speedway, had been going strong for an hour,
when the young lady suddenly developed hysterics!
She had discovered “it.” “It” was hanging
from a limb above, and “its ” heels were dangling
just above the heads of the lover and his beloved.
Henry began to make some noise at this juncture,
and a passing bicyclist investigated the disturb!
ance and found that “ it ” was quite dead.
THE PALE GREEN GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* th u- ma,den - • • was a Water Sprite, in verv lona-
tan stockings, tan shoes, and short, full costume of nale
green crinkled paper. —Adelaide paper. P ®
CO To.day! S ° bathinfr ’ B ' irlB ’ in cr 'nkled paper togs,
O, I am full of utter joy ; I like this latest wav
0f s^nSituK’dSr wear your short ’ ,uii> paie
And earf en ’ "' e whis P er this within your shell-pink
I love those long, tan stockings— very long ones, also wide
n places—with a wet, wild, warm, uncrinkled girl inside !
H °°rout— Th ' S W * U be B ' orgeous > love i a wet, wild, joyous
And out? yet niore splendid when fche crinkles have come
The frocks h -' ng ° f 0001 SUrf UP ° n a bunch of crinkled
The distant, dull tide-thunder roaring on the outer rocks
h wind W scutUing T by-' fc * Pmy J ’° Ur m ° Uth ’ the Bea ‘
Fin monmnts r fly I 6 * 6 ’ A " d H ° W the Bwi,t> dripping
S ay .,when,vou smile and dimple, it's like pints of spark-
Gre girTfor mine °° ol * G ‘ Ve me a pale green swimmer-
°°’ trout— USt WatCh me Wrifftr,e like an early-springtime
° ! crinkletout? e ’ girl, and l 6t ’ S SUrfy ° Ur pa,e S ree "
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
THE
HYPOCRITE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yff'OU hinted at deeds of derring-do ,
You gave me carte blanche to imagine you
A Don Jwan with a record blue !
You made me think you a Cavalier
With a “ past ” I’d have given my eyes to hear.
I find you an amatcui — dear, of dear !
Will you kindly say where the joke com-
mences ?
Your innocent air the most deep offence
is —
You married me, sir, under false pretences I
N.S.W.
HELEN JEBOME.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines, Traction
Engines, High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
Engines, etc., etc.
Brunton s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
everything. A. Ransome & Co. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers.
Steel Rails, Tramway Material, Locomotives, Cas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Mayor of Sydney reported to the council
the other evening, in reply to an alderman who wanted
to know, that in 20 years the City Council had paid
£13,959 in fire-insurance premiums, and all that it had
got from the cos. on account of fires was £32. The S. M.
Herald became quite excited about it, gave the para-
graph three headings, and called them “ startling
figures.” Well, four or five years ago the State of N. S.
Wales, which has quite as good risks as the City
Council, had very similar figures put before it, and,
as a result, it decided to do its own fire-
insuring. The fund lasted for a couple of years
or so, and the system was such a success that soon
the reserves were worth collaring. And collared they
were accordingly—by the S. M. Herald’s “Reform”
Premierfand financier, Carruthers, with the Herald’S
approval. The Herald is always discovering facts that
startle it; but, having discovered them, it dozes off to
sleep again, and dreams the same old dreams, and then
bumps up against a new lot of facts and figures that
startle it some more. The whole trouble is that it hasn’t
got the smallest notion what to do with a startling dis-
covery when it makes one.
* * • *
As in other groups, the figures of Australasian
fire insurance cos. drop in at all times of the year.
The comparisons that follow don’t, therefore, refer to the
business done in 1907 ; they pover the results reported in
that year. Consequently they bring in the distressing
results of the ’Frisco earthquake and fire, which hit the
big New Zealand Co. so hard. Here, first, are the total
profits for six years
1902 .. .. £284,474 I 1905.. .. £317,374
1903 .. .. 261,306 1906 .. .. 368,467
1904.. .. 381,378 | 1907 .. .. 67,067
And here are the results in detail reported during the
past year:—
‘Added
Net to Re- Re-
Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
New Zealand 167,435 10 p.c. =25,000 336,786
Profits.
South British 48,121 30 „ „ 30,000 18,121 432,241
Col. Mutual.. 31,572 20) „ „ 20,500 11,072 121,654
National
(M.L.) .. 26,096 15 „ „ 15,000 11,096 249,339
Queensland.. 20,260 8„ „ 6,000 14,260 76,327
United .. 16,855 12) „ „ 10,675 6,180 154,494
Victoria .. 22,762 36 „ „ 17,975 4,787 114,139
Aus. Alliance 3,762 4 „ „ 5,000 53,226
Merc. Mutual 12,046 14f,, ~ 6,707 5,339 49,615
Standard
(M.L.) .. 11,570 10 „ „ 7,500 4,070 82,189
Aus. Mutual 17,324 14| „ „ 9,237 8,087 137,243
Derwent and
Tamar .. 7,014 10 „ „ 5,250 1,764 75,748
Farmers’ Co-
op. (M.L.).. 6,049 7„ „ 3,934 2,115 17,679
Common-
wealth .. 1,629 5 „ „ 988 541 3,280
Vic. General 3,845 15 „ „ 3,000 845 13,686
Mut. of Tas-
mania .. 5,697 8 „ „ 3,150 2,547 33,080
The totals for two years past have been as follows :
1906. 1907.
Dividends £172,859 £169,916
Added to Reserves.. .. 195,608
Taken from Reserves ». 102,849
Total Net Profits .. £368,467 £67,067
Only the New Zealand and Australian Alliance
Cos. failed to add anything to their reserves. The other
14 added £90,824, as against £145,905 added for the pre-
vious year. Apart, therefore, from the ’Frisco trouble,
it was not a fat year for cos. doing fire and marine insur-
ance business. The marine business gave in most cases
very poor results. You get a further glimpse of that in
the’following figures :
Ex- Under-
, Loss pense writing
Net Rate, Rate, Profit,
.Premiums. p.c. p.c. p.c.
New Zealand .. ..£565,149 11U9 22 - 9 Nil
South British .. .. 333,131 65-5 27'6 6'9
Colonial Mutual .. 156,990 46‘4 39"0 14-6
National (M.L.).. .. 110,035 57'0 33'5 9-5
Queensland .. .. 104,153 50-9 33 - 6 15’5
United 95,620 48‘5 41'6 9'9
Victoria .. .. .. 87,611 54T 25’9 20 - 0
Australian Alliance .. 57,981 79-2 31'0 Nil
Mercantile Mutual .. 56,755 24'3 48 - 2 27'5
Standard (M.L.).. .. 56,450 58'8 32"2 9-0
Australian Mutual .. 36,358 20'6 42'6 36 - 8
Derwent and Tamar .. 21,275 60 - 3 29'9 9’B
Commonwealth.. .. 10,071 66"0 25 - 3 87
Victoria General .. 9,007 39'4 31-3 29 - 3
Farmers’ Co-op. (M.L.) 6,313 16'9 39'0 44T
Mutual of Tasmania .. 6,043 17'2 397 43'1
The largest underwriting profit has in nearly every case
been made by the cos., such as the Mercantile Mutual,
Australian Mutual, and Victoria General, which prac-
tically confine themselves to land risks. It will be
noted that, generally speaking, the cos. with the highest
expense rate also show the highest percentage of profit.
But they don’t make the most profit. The co. that nets
10 per cent, on £lOO,OOO of premiums makes a larger profit
than the one that takes only the best £50,000 of the risk,
and makes 18 per cent, on that much. Also marine busi-
ness generally means a heavier loss rate than fire busi-
ness, but a smaller expense rate ; and that fact has also
to be considered in comparing companies’ results.
Compared with the risks which they undertake,
Australasian offices offer remarkably good protection to
insurers in the way of capital and reserves. This list
covers that matter:
Capital
and Re-
serves in
Propor-
tion to
Capi- Re- Pre- Pre-
tal. serves. miums. miums
New Zealand .. £300,000 £336,786 £565,149 112.7
South British .. 100,000 432,241 333,131 159'8
National (M.L.).. 100,000 249,339 110,035 317'5
Colonial Mutual 100,000 121,654 156,990 141-2
Victoria .. .. 50,180 114,139 87,611 1877
Aus. Alliance .. 125,000 53,226 57,981 307-6
United .. .. 85,402 154,494 95,620 250-9
Queensland .. 75,000 76,327 104,153 145-3
Aus. Mutual .. 62,500 137,243 36,358 549'4
Standard.. .. 75,000 82,189 56,450 250‘9
Derwent & Tamar 50,000 75,748 21,275 591’6
Merc. Mutual .. 45,000 49,615 56,755 166-8
Mutual of Tas. .. 37,500 33,080 6,043 11697
Victoria General 20,000 13,686 9,007 374
Commonwealth.. 19,764 3,280 10,071 228'9
Farmers’ Co-op.
(M.L.) .. 49,783 17,679 6,313 1008-6
Totals' .. £1,295,129 £1,950,726 £1,712,942 189-.5
The figures for 55 leading British offices were published
in the Finance Chronicle, August 16 last. On the data
for those offices there given, one can get this comparison :
55 British 16 Australasian
Offices. Offices.
Capital .. .. £7,744,956 £1,295,129
Other Funds .. 29,185,964 1,950,726
Total Funds .. £36,930,920 £3,245,855
Premiums .. .. 23,840,339 1,712,942
Proportion of Funds
to Premiums .. 154-9 p.c. 189-5 p.c.
Thus for £154 18s. of protection offered on the average
by the 55 British offices, the Australasian offices give
£lB9 10s. of protection.
The amount that a fire insurance office lays by
in any one year is not much of a guide, because, after
years of success, during which large additions may have
been made to reserves, an office may be struck by such
a disaster as came the way of the New Zealand office
recently. Still, for what it is worth, here is the pro-
portion of profits put aside during the year for the
further protection of policy-holders: —
Queensland .. 70.4 p.c. Commonwealth 35.4 p.c.
Aus. Mut. .. 46.7 „ Standard (M.L.) 35.2 „
Mut. ofTas. .. 44.8 ~ Farmers’Co-op. 34.9 „
Merc. Mut. .. 44.4 „ Derwent & Tam. 25.2 „
National (M.L.).. 42.6 „ Vic. General .. 21.9 „
S. British .. 37.8 „ Victoria.. .. 21.4 ~
United .. .. 36.7 „ Aus. Alliance .. ml.
Col. Mut. .. 35.7 „ N. Zealand .. nil.
* * * *
Now the United steps up into line with most
other Australasian fire-insurance cos., and gets authority
from its shareholders to take accident and guarantee
business.
* * * *
The Bank of North Queensland
Added
Dividends and to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend-Tax. serves. serves.
Dec., 1901.. £2536 2* p.c. = £1313 £1223 £13,083
June, 1902.. 2038 2) „ „ 1313 725 13,808
Dec., 1902.. 2687 2) „ „ 1313 1374 15,182
June, 1903.. 2153 2) ~ „ 1313 840 16,022
Dec., 1903.. 2408 2* „ „ 1313 1095 17,117
June, 1904.. 2251 2* ~ „ 1313 938 18,055
Dec., 1904.. 2421 2) „ „ 1313 1108 19,163
June, 1905.. 2262 2)„ „ 1325 937 20,100
Dec., 1905.. 2310 2) „ ~ 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 2* „ „ 1330 1131 22,215
Dec., 1906.. 2644 2) „ „ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 „ ~ 2113 905 24,429
Dec., 19071 Written off’’£4oo0 122 i 21,678
Six months ago this cautious little bank put £4OOO to
contingency account; and, as the amount has now been
dropped out of the balance-sheet, it must be treated
as having been written off during the past half-year.
When the troubles arrived in the early ’nineties, the
Bank of North Queensland was the first to release
its old deposits; hut it was, nevertheless, hard
hit, and had to write down its paid capital from
£250,000 to £lOO,OOO. The recovery after that was
slow, notwithstanding that Queensland was enjoying
the allied blessings of Robert Philp and Tommy Tanna.
Down to between three and four years ago the investing
public had its own opinion about the completeness of the
writing down—an opinion expressed in the fact that the
£2 shares were quoted at 12s. and thereabouts. But
careful management told in the end ; for years no divi-
dend at all was paid, and then only 2) per cent., and so
the assets were strengthened out of undivided profits.
Subsequently Queensland’s great improvement arrived,
bad debts were recovered, and profits on current business
looked up ; so that probably the published figures of this
and other northern banks don’t represent half the solid
change that has occurred in their outlook. So far as the
profits are disclosed, here is the recent record of the
earnings on the basis of total funds (capital and re-
serves) :
June, 1904 .. £3 16 11 p'.c. June, 1906 .. £4 1 4 p.c.
Dec., 1904 .. 4 2 0 „ Dec., 1906 .. 4 6 7 „
June, 1905.. 316 0 „ June, 1907 .. 417 9 „
Dee., 1905 .. 31611 „ Dec., 1907 .. 5 8 4 „
If the past half-year’s return can be maintained, it will
be a pretty good indication that the assets have got back
fairly close to book value, and that the capital is once
more just about intact. The profit-earning capacity of
the bank ought certainly to be much improved, judging
by these figures:—
Dec.,’o6. Dec.,’o7.
Deposits .. .. £474,250 £549,763 Inc. £75,513
Bills in circula-
tion, etc. .. 40,203 43,677 Inc. 3,474
Liquid assets .. 237,839 236,996 Dec. 843
Advances .. 372,264 450,098 Inc. 77,834
Premises.. .. 29,209 30,146 Inc. 937
For many years the proportion of the public’s money
compared with the shareholders’ funds was very small;
now, however, the deposits increase, largely, no doubt,
because the public is more satisfied that the shareholders’
funds really exist, and shareholders’ funds are, of course,
the depositors’ protection. Even now the proportion of
public money is not large—under £5 to £1 of share-
holders’ money ; and of the public’s money just upon 40
per cent, is held in coin and public securities, which,
under ordinary circumstances, is more than enough for
safety.
• • # •
The Hotel Metropole, Ltd., was for many
years a Melbourne co. carrying on business in Sydney.
Two years ago the co. was reformed and re-registered in
N.S.W., with a capital of £17,507 in 6 per cent, cumu-
lative pref. shares and £75,000 in ordinary (“ B”) shares,
limited also to 6 per cent, until a mortgage of £25,000 is
wiped out. To wipe it out £3OOO a year is to be put
aside. Ordinary shares, therefore, come in after —(1)
interest is paid ; (2) £3OOO a year is provided ; and (3) 6
per cent, cumulative div. on £17,507 is made up.
After the £25,000 is paid off, all profits in
excess of the preference 6 per cent, belong to
ordinary shareholders ; and the pref. capital
is not large—6 per cent, calls for only £lO5O a year. After
paying charges, writing off preliminary expenses, etc.,
the profit for the first year was £9876 ; 6 per cent. div. all
round was paid. For the past year (to Dec. 31) the profit
was £12,890; dividend (6 per cent.), £5550 ; added to re-
serves, £7340; total reserves, £11,666. But £2250 of
these reserves (including £1750 added during the year)
stands to the credit of furniture and machinery renewal
accounts; and probably they represent actual deprecia-
tion. If so, the net profits really are £11,140. After pro-
viding for current dividend, the liquid assets total
£10,888; the liabilities total £23,478, including the
mortgage. Excellent progress has certainly been made
in the two years.
* • • •
Sydney Telegraph (8/l/’08) poured scorn on a
proposal for underground tubes to relieve the traffic of
Sydney streets. By January 9it had revised its attitude,
and devoted a leader and a special article to getting back
into a position to favor tubes. Will the next step be a
prospectus with some Telegraph names on it to form a
Tubes Co. ?
* * * *
Last session the Tasmanian Parliament passed
a Bill to provide for some sort of an Advances to Settlers
Office or State Land Bank, and last week the interested
Ministers and heads of departments met to settle details.
The biggest trouble is that they can’t settle the big and
mostly idle landlords. And it really isn’t much use
greasing the - wheels of the conveyance if the idiot in
charge insists upon keeping the horse’s head tied to the
fence.
* * * *
Not one Australian State produced as much
gold last year as it did in 1906 ; the figures for four years
past, in ounces, are as follows :
1904. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Westralia .. 2,373,021 1,955,316 1,794,547 1,697,550
Victoria .. 821,017 747,166 772,290 701,988
Queensland .. 877,238 592,260 544,636 457,597
N. S. Wales .. 324,996 274,267 253,987 247,363
Tasmania .. 65,921 73,541 60,023 63,200
S. Australia .. 29,108 20,530 25,592 18,700
Commonwealth.. 4,491,301 3,663,080 3,451,075 3,186,398
Maoriland .. 520,323 520,485 534,616 476,987
Total .. 5,011,624 4,183,565 3,985,691 3,663,385
Some of the figures for 1907 are subject to revision. The
years 1903-4 were high-water mark in recent gold pro-
duction ; in 1903 the Westralian output reached its
summit. Shortly afterwards the base-metal markets
began to look up, and attention was turned away from
gold. This has especially been the case during the
past two years, with the result that, except in the case
of such an old and self-contained field as Bendigo, com-
paratively little money has been paid up in calls. Pros-
pectors have also turned to copper and tin. No new gold
developments have occurred to take the place of the
worked-out gold mines, and the output has languished
in consequence. Even in 1907, however, the gold output
exceeded in value that of the ’fifties, which “ old-timers”
—and some others—talk about as the ?°lden era. T
year 1853, the most prolific, had an output of £14,381,256,
according to the official reckoning. Last year beat that
by a little, but not by much.
*'* * * *
Last year’s record of the three chief goldfields
in the Eastern States :
Gold, oz. Dividends. Calls.
Charters Towers .. 221,685 £120,099 £82,572
Bendigo 196,054 121,342 208,/80
Gympie .. .. 77,372 65,221 48,435
For 1906 they worked out this way
Gold, oz. Dividends. Calls.
Charters Towers .. 256,253 £176,602 £126,241
Bendigo . • ■ • 223,733 246,254 221,262
Gympfe .. .. 130,050 177,439 60,945
It is pretty shuddersome all round—a dividend total for
the three of £306,662 in 1907, against £600,295 in 1906.
* * * *
Ealgurli’s income for the year ending 31st July
last was £356,855, and a profit of £165,117 was netted
from ore treatment. This, with £104,890 brought for-
ward, gave a credit balance of £270,007. Four quarterly
dividends of 7s. 6d. and a bonus of ss. (in all, £210,000)
were paid, and, after allowing for London expenditure,
the co. wound up the year with about £50,000 to the
good. Since then the profits have just about balanced
the dividends, so the financial position is practically the
same now as when the accounts were made up in July.
The directors’ report definitely states that the retiring
general manager, F. A. Moss, estimates the ore reserves
at 650,000 tons, of a recoverable value of 565. per ton.
Moss, however, says nothing of the kind. What he does say
is that “there are approximately 650,000 tons of ore opened
up, and that during the com ing year it is safe to assume that
gold of an average value of 565. per ton can be recovered ”
—a very different thing. R. S. Black, who succeeds
Moss, estimates the reserves at 600,000 tons of an average
value of 555. per ton, and recommends a reduction in the
milling grade to that figure. Seeing, however, that
Black had only spent a few days on the mine, and that
his report was not based on systematic sampling, it must
be regarded as a general expression of opinion from a re-
putable commercial man rather than the exhaustive
report of a trained mining engineer. Boiled down, the
position at the Kalgurli seems to be this : The two
bottom levels have shown higher values than any two
other levels in the mine, but so far the shoots have not
proved as extensive as those met with in some of the
higher workings. Still there is the chance of fresh bodies
of ore being opened up at depthduring the next few months,
and that is why only rash speculators dare hazard on the
result. The past four years’ milling averages have been
so consistent that, as Black points out in his report, it
does not appear at all likely that a sudden and pro-
nounced falling-off in the milling grade of the ore will
occur. Yet, as very few mines get richer in depth, some
drop, be it ever so small, is almost inevitable from time
to time, and no doubt that is why Moss would not com-
mit himself to more than one year’s average.
# * # *
While the directors of the Lake View Consols
never ask the men to share the cream, they seem to have
no compunction about lending large sums of money to
Heaven knows who, and in consideration of Heaven
knows what. The last balance sheet shows that £81,998
was out on loan to unnamed persons, and it is now
alleged that the £42,000 recently called up in respect to
a-portion of the share issue of the co. has been got rid of
in the same way. Yet shareholders say nothing, and
look pleasant.
* * • *
The first report of the Oroya-Black Range Co.,
for the term ending August 31 last, has drifted out from
London, and shows that £34,486 had been expended on
plant, machinery, and buildings. After crediting the
proceeds of gold from the first clean-up of the mill, the
balance of general expenditure (£22,111) was carried for-
ward. In order to enable development work to be
carried on at the same time as the erection of the plant,
£20,049 was borrowed from the Oroya-Brown Hill Co., to
be repaid out of profits. The surplus earned up to
the end of December last amounted to about £20,000, or
just about enough to wipe out the debt; and as the
directors have said they are going to build up a reserve
before they pay any dividends, some time will elapse yet
before any distribution is made.
« * • •
Another of KalgoorKe’s derelicts, the United,
has been wound up and a liquidator appointed to realise
on the property and plant. As these are scarcely worth
a song, there is nothing for shareholders.
* * * *
Word has been received from London that the
preference issue of the Great Tower Hill Co. (W.A.) fell
flat. This will mean reconstruction.
* * * *
The remote Phillips River district (W.A.),
though not too cheerful at present, begins to show decent
figures. According to State Mining Engineer Mont-
gomery, the total value of the gold won from the field is
£116,500, of which £12,000 worth came out during the
ten months ending October, 1907, while the value of the
copper production stands at £146,849, of which £55,842
was extracted during the ten months. The aggregate
production of the field to that date was £263,574-
* * * *
Up to the end of Sept, the Kaufman syndicate
had spent £125,150 in developing and equipping its
various holdings at Phillips River (W.A.), and had
recovered gold and copper to the value of £22,715. The
value of the ore in sight, however, is much greater than
the balance of the money laid out. The same remark
applies to the Mt. Oattlin —formerly owned by Kaufman
& Co., but now by a separate company. So far it has
produced £40,759 worth of metal for an outlay of £56,256.
* * * *
The problem of dressing low-grade ores be-
fore smelting is about to be faced at Phillips River
(W.A.). Improvements to Kaufman’s smelter will, it is
estimated, enable 4 per cent, copper ore to be treated at
a profit, and in the case of lower-grade stuff some sort of
concentration is to be resorted to. While this will not be
a serious financial difficulty to the Kaufman group of
mines, it is likely to prove beyond the means of the
smaller claim holders. The State Mining Engineer, who
recently made an inspection of the field, advises owners
to sell their low-grade ore heaps to the nearest larger con-
cern which possesses a dressing mill, or to co-operate in
putting up small plants to serve several mines adjacent to
one another. It is, however, a costly and mostly unpro-
fitable business to team ore to a concentrating mill—it is
worse than lumping greasy wool to Europe to have the
dirt washed out of it.
* * * *
The doings of the Tindall’s Development Co.
(W.A.) need investigation. About 12 months ago this
concern acquired 167 acres of leasehold at Cue for
£450,000 ; payment was made in fully-paid shares. Who
got these shares, who found the money to carry on
operations, and how much cash was put up is not clear ;
but early last year a 20-head mill was dumped on the
property, and crushing started a few months later. Since
then a deathly silence has prevailed in respect to the co.
and its operations. Hasn’t the property any gold, or
what?
• * * *
The boomsters of the Princess Royal (W.A.)
seem to have drawn in their horns a bit. In place of
telegrams about the mine getting richer every day, and
so forth, the local newspapers now announce that the
manager “is not yet despondent regarding the position
of the mine.” This may be taken to mean that the boom
is about burst, and that the co. is anxious to get
exemption. Speculators were warned some time back
about this property and advised to put padlocks on their
pockets. That advice still holds good.
* * * »
Sydney people who put money into the Weari-
anna and Carlow leases, near Roebourne(W.A.), may get a
shock before long. A well-known mining expert who has
just returned south from there, says that it is a pity that
those who found the capital did not have a good look
before they leaped. According to this party, the reef
which the battery is being erected to crush only carries
what he regards as payable values for a width of 6in. or
7in., whereas the prospectus alleged the shoot to be Bft.
thick.
The immediate outlook at Greenbushes tinfield
(W.A.) is gloomy. Most of the mining leases are already
under exemption or going slow, and the chances of more
than one or two paying at the present price of tin look
hopeless. In fact, some of the leaseholders are so hard-up
that they cannot raise enough money to apply for ex-
emption. # ,
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.) held its annual
meeting in London last month. The chairman stated
that the gold production for the year was a shade over
£39,000, and there was a profit of about £2OOO ; also ore
reserves show an increase of 7000 tons as compared with
the previous year. But no dividends have been paid to
date, and none worth mentioning are likely to be paid in
the future.
* * * *
The Ealgoorlie Recovery Co. (W.A.) is going
to give producer-gas a trial. The experiment will be
interesting in a country where both wood and water are
sometimes scarce. Collie coal is not popular with
engine-men; but in the lump form it seems to act well
enough in a producer-gas furnace. The future will prob-
ably see gas mains run from the coal mines to places
where power is required. This is called the electrical
age. There may be a gas age to follow on.
For the first time for many years the Broken
Hill mines are in trouble over their concentrates. For a
long while past the cos. have been rushed by buyers.
Now the demand for metal has eased off in Europe, and
the foreign smelters want to drive hard bargains with the
South, the British, Block 10, and the other Barrier cos.
that haven’t got their own furnaces. For three or four
years the South and one or two more have been chuck-
ling. “ Provide our own furnaces ! ” they said. “Do our
own smelting ! Keep the work in Australia ! Why should
we ? Look at our figures—aren’t we doing better than
the B. H. Prop, and the Sulphide Corporation, which
do what you want us to be fools enough to
do?” That was all very well while the foreign
smelters badlv wanted the concentrates; but now
these cos. find that they are at the mercy of
what almost amounts to a ring. If they were
able to produce lead they could get a market for it;
there are buyers of lead all the world over. But there
is a mere handful of buyers of lead concentrates. So
the British mill is still taking a long Christmas holiday,
and even the South is working two shifts under-
ground instead of three, and the mill will soon have
to ease off. Meantime negotiations are going on with
the Broken Hill Prop., which is being urged to come to
the (rescue. But the B. H. Prop, isn’t a benevolent in-
stitution, and it doesn’t see why it should rush to save
the other cos. from the consequences of their own un-
patriotic folly without getting something very solid in
return, the more especially as the less lead that is thrown
on the market now the better for itself as a big lead
producer.
• • • •
8., M. and Co. won’t risk making any more
statements about the monthly profit earned by the
Broken Hill South Blocks. For October, for instance,
they showed a profit of £3453 out of concentrates con-
taining 845 tons lead ; that was at the rate of £4 Is. 9d.
per ton of lead. The metal was taken at the average for the
month, £lB 13s. But, unfortunately for those figures,
values are adjusted on the average prices of metals during
the third month after shipment; and so far this month
(which is the third month after October), the lead
market doesn’t promise to average more than £l4 55.,
or £4 Bs. less than the October average of £lB
13s. Take £4 Bs. from £4 Is. 9d. you can’t; so
the whole assumed profit for October disappears. For
December things are a bit better, because costs have been
reduced ; as often pointed out here, while metal prices
were high the prudent manager rushed the chance to do
development work, and now he can ease off considerably.
Total working costs at the South Blocks were 14s. Id. per
ton of ore in October ; for last month they were down to
12s. Bd. (This is in each case independent of the develop-
ment work that was charged to capital account.) The
saving so far is thus Is. sd. per ton, which, on the month’s
output, was equal to £550 ; and that saving is equal to an
improvement of 13s. per ton of lead. When lead was
£lB 13s. per ton, it cost approximately all the silver
plus £l4 11s. per ton of the lead to produce the metals ;
with the 13s. per ton saving before-mentioned, it
would cost all the silver plus £l3 18s. per ton of the lead.
There has been a slight fall in silver, too, but that doesn’t
affect the South Blocks very much ; probably it brings
the cost of lead-production at present up to £l4 per ton.
And that was exactly the lead quotation at the end of
last week. It is a pretty sick prospect for South Blocks,
and all the sicker because the mine hasn’t got any rich
patches that it can dig out so as to tide it over dull times.
• * * *
Lloyd’s (N.S.W.) report for the year to the end
of last June, presented in London on December 10, has
only just reached Australia. The year’s copper sales ran
to £130,497; the profit was £45,571, less depreciation
(£9152) and debenture interest (£4000). The copper and
other products on hand were taken in at cost price ; the
average cost of producing refined copper f.o.b. Sydney
was £56 3s. Bd. Shipments of metal made during the
year may have been drawn against beyond their dimin-
ished value at the time of settlement, afid the co. may
have to make refunds; but these reclamations, if any,
are not likely to be serious. The faulting of the rock
cutting off the lode is the co.’s big trouble. But for that,
with ore averaging close up to 2) per cent., profit
could be made down to perhaps £4B. Manager Corbould,
a very capable man, is, however, hopeful—and he isn’t
one of your reckless optimists. The lode is older than
the faults ; therefore he sees no reason why there should
not be good lenses of ore on both sides of the fault.
Unfortunately Lloyd’s isn’t troubled only with one fault;
there is a big one and a multitude of minor ones. The
further the co. gets east and away from the main fault
the more settled the country ought to be ; for there is no
reason to suspect another main fault —its occurrence isn’t
likely. Of course, like 99 copper mines in 100, the ore
bodies are very irregular ; and that adds to the uncer-
tainty. But, in spite of all its troubles, Lloyd’s remains
a very fair gamble, though there are too many shares
(280,000) to allow it to ever yield a very big “ pot ”
there are too many to divide the “ pot ” amongst.
* * * m
The liquidator sold the Crowl Creek and
Shuttleton (N.S.W.) the other day, at auction, for £5500,
For the old shareholders, or some of them, it is a ghastly
conclusion to an unfortunate business. The amalgamated
concern started with insufficient capital, and then when
the slump in copper came, the directors found they had
overdrawn against shipments, and repayments had to be
made. The co. found itself in the same hole as Peak
Downs did years ago, and seemed to suffer the same de-
moralisation. Certainly the concern, having done so
much development work, should never have been per-
mitted to fall through. Nevertheless, the whole pro-
perty, plant and all, has gone for £5500; but the names
of the buyers have not been disclosed—a fact that won’t
lessen the wagging of heads and tongues.
* * * *
Though the No. 3 level at the Harden (N.S.W.)
is not doing anything at all sensational, it isn’t the
failure that it looked in the early stages. Six months
ago, when the ore was measured up, it was estimated
that the reserves ran to only 9900 tons, worth 945. 2d. per
ton. At that time the No. 3 level east was in 143 ft., and,
the reef thus far had been only 18in. wide, worth on an
average £1 per ton, and it was poor in the face. Now
the east level is 502 ft. long, and the 40ft. driven during the
last month has been on a reef 22in. wide, averaging
41s. per ton ; while the end is in ore 24in. wide,
worth 575. 9d. per ton. At a point in this drive 420 ft. in
from the shaft, a rise has been put up 35ft. ; and in that
distance the reef has averaged 3ft. 6in. wide and 465. in
value. Though the stone seems to be narrowing at this
point, it is richer. Of course, the real future of the mine
lies under the No. 3 level; and below that hardly any-
thing has been done, on account of the water being,
heavy. The shaft is now to be put down to 400 ft., and that
will, no doubt, drain the ground and allow of winzes
being sunk. Dividends are still regular, and the half-year
ends up much more cheerfully than the previous term did.
* * * *
The Conrad mines (N.S.W.) are in more trouble
—they have hardly ever been in anything else. Veteran'
John Howell, after he quitted the Broken Hill Prop.,
thought he could beat the remarkable silver-lead-copper-
tin mixture ; but the problems emptied the pocket of
the original co., and then had the Conrad Consolidated
Co. just about beaten when the Conrad Stannite Mines,
Ltd., was formed in London to take the whole
thing over. It is practically a private co., with
the shares in a few hands. Big works have
been put up ; but very little success has been met with.
The concern, moreover, is not flush of money ; the new
co. put up very little cash, and the output of saleable
concentrates has not gone far, taking into account the
repeated reconstruction of the works. Now the co. has
notified that wages must come down ; and as they never
were at a high level, the mf n kick, and work is practically
hung up. A while ago 300 hands were employed.


“PERPETUAL.”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
v e iir worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Lives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
L?o°£i, ; pnce 20s - per ba £- Wra - Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
P°P S ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
hitches ’ for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite, revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. Ir some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [3
. The Review, of Sydney, in its October, 1907,
issue, writes regarding the new Combined Life Accident
and Invalidity Policy of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ We must congratulate the
Colonial Mutual upon this latest development of its
business, and would at the same time commend this very
liberal and complete policy to the earnest consideration
of our readers.”
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen Street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
J. R. Godfrey, Mining Engineer, Broken Hill
Chambers, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, No. 21, Fourth
Floor. Mines inspected, reported on, and managed.
Late Government Inspector of Mines for N.S. W.*
* * * *
Cobar.— For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation,*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbbrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
« * • •
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said: —“It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the>-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* ' ■* * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
* * * m
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
Engineers who have not had the opportunity of
seeing how the Canadian Pacific breaks the back of the
“ Rocky Mountains ” for their heavy freight trains, and
how the Central and South American railways surmount
the difficulties of the Central and Southern Andes, should
take the present opportunity of seeing the Shay-geared
Locomotive now in course of erection at Darling Island
by Messrs. Gibson, Battle and Co., Limited, 7 Bent Street,
for the Oommonw'ealth Oil Corporation Limited, who
already have one of these engines negotiating, with
success, the difficult curves and grades of their develop-
ment work in the Wolgan Valley. For mining, forestry
work, or development in difficult country this engine
has no rival. It is made in all sizes from 10 to 160
tons.*
LOHMANN <a COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
.OLE ACENTS for IfP/Hlgg LOCOMOTIVES,
as purchased by the Covts. of N.8.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, and all principal mining com'
parties, sugar plantations, contractors, etc. ; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. &R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Miningr, Industrial and Eleotrloal Machinery and Materials of all kinds. 12 '
ofl ' As a matter of fact, however the
newranUnd W the m v < in e f. than mo PP ed U P m paying for the
"or interest ™ f.w°°’ rerypl ¥ tB > and in Providing
ior interest on debentures; and the 10 tier cent
preference dividend was paid out of old accumulated
profit. The new plant might, of course have been
hS'f' accou " fc ’ but in that case the co.
• f hay e had to raise the money somewhere. If
,. dld . n . fc P r ° v ide it out of profit it would have been
obliged to make a new capital issue ofsome sort • and the
SuoSThS 1 'S d a ,! re e ady - And for that°over a capital!
b as to thank its own old-time want of pluck,
wrir. en nff iV 3 ! A \ h ? ro,t P rocess tailed it should have
written off at least twice as much of its capital as it did
Having ha( l to provide £113,830 for the new plants, the
debentures had then to be renewed. The rate of
Pt>r Ce " and the y are to be repaid at a pre-
mium of £5 per cent, at the end of 1912. The paving-out
of so much money in plant-extension (rendered necessary,
u’ b / the surf ? ce movements disorganising the
oid mdl) has been rough on the ordinary shareholders;
but it is better for them, after all, than a new issue, which
could only have been carried through on a preference
basis. And Heaven knows there is enough already stand-
ing between them and a bite.
The copper slump hasn’t utterly discouraged
the people who have Lobb’s Hole (N.S.W.) in hand
though the prospectus did base some of its estimates on
copper at £BO per ton. As the co. believes that it can
produce copper and land it f.o.b. Sydney at
about £3O per ton, the future isn’t all gloom, if it does
this it will be a fine achievement, for'the mine is in a
most un-get-at-able part of the mountains that have
Kosciusko for a crown. The Lobb’s Hole output, how-
ever, will never be very large ; for the body, if
extremely rich, is very small; the rich part may average
bin. Though the co. has been formed about nine months,
onl} preliminary work, including 1 road-making 1 , has been
done so far. Latterly, however, a turbine has been
placed in position and that is part of the explanation of
the low cost of production. For Lobb’s Hole is in the
recesses of the country where the Australian capital is
£Oingf to be a country where the streams are perpetual
and where water-power can be relied upon from January
Ito December 31. The mine has been worked in a small
way for many years, but only the rich ore was removed •
and as there is a good heap of 6 per cent, seconds at
surface, a reverb, furnace is now being put in hand.
* * * +
Lloyd’s, which keeps plodding, tapped 95 tons
copper for three weeks’ work in December, the product
of 5352 tons of ore. Taking copper at £6O, the output
was worth £5700, and local costs were £5220 ; so Lloyd’s
is at present just struggling to make ends meet. The
ore averages nearly 3 per cent., or £1 14s. 3d. per ton,
with copper at £6O. The average value is slightly higher
than that of Mt. Lyell; but mining, smelting, and con-
verting all cost more owing to different conditions.
In the Sydney Geological Museum there are
numerous exhibits of bauxite, the ore from which alu-
minium is mostly produced. Now that some of the
patents affecting the production of aluminium are about
to expire, it is thoug'ht there will be a very large increase
in production, which is already about 20,000 tons a year.
Aluminium comes into competition with copper as a con-
ductor of electricity. It is certainly inferior for that
purpose ; but as bulk for bulk it is about one-third the
weight of the red metal, it gets a pull that way.
Fate isn’t being good to those who want to see
the Newcastle troubles settled without a strike. If
there were ever a time when delays are dangerous it is
now; yet the Special Court can’t continue its sitting,
because Judge Heydon, the president, is ill of pneumonia.
Fortunately, though at great danger to himself, he kept
up until the Teralba matter had been got out of the way ;
then he simply had to give in. The way in which that
Teralba question was dealt with has given the miners
more confidence in the Court, and the growth of that
feeling is a great advantage just now.
* * * *
Exit Duke United, Havelock (Vic.), and good-
bye to another big slab of British pelf. It is wonderful
how much the Baillieus got out of this group—first out
of North Duke, on the yield of the mine ; next, out of
the Duke United, on the yield of J. Bull, who bought it.
When the Baillieus cut, the gold cut too. Pure luck
this, for no one could have told that the gutter was going
so far across the strata, with impoverished dirt, and that
then, when the true course was resumed, it would pan
out a duffer. Bores and cutting-up drives off No. 8 and
No. 9 branches went 15dwt. in the sluice-box. When the
blocks were panelled, bulk yields shrank to 9dwt. So
another alluvial Dead March has to be rehearsed. The
hero isn’t quite defunct yet, it is true ; but recovery will
be a miracle, with cash so short. Then, if Duke United
is no good, what about the claims lower down the lead ?
Spring Hill Leads, Allandale, is Creswick’s one
live mine. Its accounts to-day show an overdraft, never-
theless, of £2126. Yet it has had £114,666 put up in calls
by Victorian holders, and £109,027 of gold has been fur-
nished by the mine. Never a dividend has been paid ;it
has been overdraft after overdraft through long years of
disappointment. Little wonder the shares are called
“Bull Dogs.” It needs a good grip to hold on to such
stuff. The co.’s income from gold last half-year was
£9865, and £2121 had to come from calls. The north
ground went nearly 16dwt., whereas the Berry Extended
tribute, held by Spring Hill Leads, cut up at over an
ounce. This makes Berry Extended crowd bad-tempered ;
but still the cheapest and best wa.v to get the wash out
to the north is to work from the Spring Hill Leads shaft.
So the tributing cannot well be avoided.
* « » *
Another bump like that of last week to Ajax,
Daylesford, and the hero will be fallen indeed. First,
SOdwt. dirt, and shares up to £6, with thumping divs.
Now, 6dwt. dirt, and divs. intermittent. The warning of
The Bulletin was that Da3 r lesford was as patchy as a
beggar’s pants, and its advice was to stand off Ajax till
the mine proved itself unlike the rest of the field. And
it isn’t unlike the rest. What Daylesford is as a mining
field can be worked out from the quarter’s return:
11,281 tons, 37580 z., average 6}dwt. This includes Ajax
dirt, which went about 10dwt., and represented all the
payable quartz on the field. Ajax’s complete record is
19,178 tons, 16,776J0z. ; calls, Bs. a share ; divs., 21s.
* # * «
Ballarat is making the most of the cemetery find.
The first bit of luck was to hit a reef when the grave of
one Thomas was being sunk. The dirt, however, gave no
promise, so the rush petered out, save for one party,
which sank on the patch set apart for the last resting
place of a well-known cleric. They were sure better things
would happen there ; and now that 30 tons from a sft. reef
have gone 12dwt., Ballarat is making a great huilabuloo.
But outsiders know Ballarat too well by this time to take
that sort of thing seriously. If some of the pioneers who
Balla n J h r. e r,„M met f7 , h , ad carried their wealth thither,
To the ru 3h But ff Se / CroWd that would flo( *
, . . • alas, the dross is irone and evpn
new strike t e h n e% a e r s e t Pl f^ kinB: Wn shlllin ~ rs to test the
new strike,J;he rest of the world moves on undisturbed.
had SSph i " Mel J :)ourne ' with nothing else to do,
whin The Bui T e W T,v ?V spec ‘ ” Test cricket stocks
It waitfnV fnr ™ J en , fc t 0 press - The stock Exchange
and everv till?* wires from the Adelaide ground,
Hoii i? J 1 £ hour or so those members who didn’t
sen Englands for a fall adjourned to the ’freshment
bar and bought small lots of Australias for a rise.
to ® e J 3a ® to P° 1 (Vic.) stocks which should rush
At the Somh B^I rtl - vare . South Star and Star D f the East.
shot»H h S , tar l ’ the last crosscut at the 3170 ft. is being
the ffide ab ° Ut 70ft - ° r 80ft - of should cut
the A i ‘ mp r ove “ ent m the value of the stone on
was tie o fl lode ’ ln i he Star ° f fche EaSfc ’ at the 1320 ft,,
Moft nnrnf rep °r ted - A contract has been let to drive
oUOrt. north on the course of the lode, and if the stone
takim' U ao P rim e ’fl CripperS T ll have a decent chan ce of
ioT.'Si/“i,S^to U S 00,t - • ho ” w p ' o,e 11 th,;
P ri appearances, Normanby, North
Ballarat, should pay. Both the 900 ft. and 1000 ft. levels
t 0 ope . r ! up fav orably. The 1100 ft. will have to
go further north to be under where the best stone is
being worked at the levels above. In a few weeks the
workings will be sufficiently advanced to
allow of a bigger tonnage being treated.
* * * *
Llanberris No. 2, Ballarat, has arranged to
work from the 1000 ft. level of the Normanbv North : and
with about 100 ft. of driving east and north, the co. will
be able to operate on the lode in its own ground.
* * * •
'Phe battery at the New Rice’s, Piggoreet, Bal-
larat mstrict, will soon have a chance to show whether
fhf r.,, 8 n ? 1 n d | Sto ! ie in s jg h k” carries enough gold to pay off
tne ±,3000 due to vendors.
* * * *
Peter s Gully (Vic.) begins the New Year under
new management. Ferguson, lately of Lyell Blocks, has
decided that all experts have mistaken the trend of the
reef, and is opening on the gold in the shaft to prove he
is correct.
*■* * m
Mt. Morgan people did the prudent thing in
June last, when they found that they had £52,521 to draw
for the half-year to May 31, on account of unexpected
surpluses on copper shipments. The market had bounded
up, and put the co. that much to the good. But the
directors reckoned that the market that climbed up
would probably not wait to climb down—it would just
slffie or else drop so fast that all the public would see
would be a perpendicular brown streak with a whizzing
sound in the middle of it. So, instead of reporting the
amount as profit, they turned it into a contingent
account., And already it has come in handy.
The co. s last half-year ended on November 30 •
and even up to that date £5930 had been drawn
from the account to pay back amounts which had been
overdrawn against recent shipments; and there was
about £lBO,OOO worth of copper in transit, against a
portion of which probably more than its value has been
drawn. The contingent account will therefore come in
handy again during the current half-year.
Without deducting the £5930 which has come
out of the contingent account. Mt. Morgan’s half-year’s
profit was £140,968, less £24,195 depreciation. (This
latter is rather less than the amount actually
spent on capital account—£29,222.) The net profit
was therefore £116,773, while the two 15d.
divs. call for £125,000. Just, however, as the
directors adopted a very cautious policy regarding the
surpluses before mentioned, so now they value the copper
on hand at only £5O per ton ;and it looks as though it
will realise a good deal more than that. If so, the profit
will be more than the accounts now show. With metal
markets jumping up and down the public can’t get too
tight a hold of the fact that the published accounts of
such cos., including statements of profit or loss, are
largely based on estimate ; and it is absolutely necessary
to know at what price unsold metal stocks have been
valued.
Mt. Morgan’s total output of copper last half-
year was 2505 tons. The net profit was £116,773. That
means £46 12s. per ton of copper. Assuming that
the under-valuation of copper in hand balances the over-
valuation of copper sold and drawn against, then copper
could fall £46 12s. per ton below last half-year’s average
before Mt. Morgan would show a loss, working on last
half-year’s basis as to costs, etc. Now, though the co.
doesn’t mention prices, the average of the monthly copper
quotations from May to November was £77 2s. ; so, with
the gold to pay costs, apparently the great mine can pro-
duce copper at £3O 10s. ; and all above that is the profit.
« * * •
Latest return from Chillagoe (Q.) states that
1560 tons of Mungana ore were smelted during December
for 160 tons lead bullion containing 87310 z. silver. No
doubt the copper from this ore will get into either the
January or the February return ; but shareholders
would appreciate a return that promptly gave even an
approximate estimate of the copper recovered (in the
form of matte) from the 1560 tons treated in December.
The return as it stands is desperately poor, but it is quite
likely that the average recovery of copper brings the
gross value up considerably. To the public the average
value of the ore and the smelter’s recovery are a mystery ;
but they are pretty well known to a few people, and
there is something .wrong about that. As to the mines,
the Girofla, which has the largest output at Mungana, is
sinking the shaft, but has to contend with a heavy flow
of water.
* * * •»
Queensland Copper Co., the English concern
which owns Mt. Perry, and makes very little fuss about
its success, has had the following record of profits during
the past three years 1905, £12,756; 1906, £28,893;
1907, £36,142. The co., like so many J. Bull concerns, is
over-capitalised ; there are 80,000 6 per cent, cumulative
pref. shares, and 133,507 ordinary shares, all £1 paid.
During the past year £32,296 was paid in dividends, equal
to 15 per cent.; in the previous year the ordinaries got 6
per cent, as well as the preference shares. A few months
ago it was expected that the co. would pay at least 20
per cent, for the year, but it bought a new property, and
when on top of that the copper market collapsed the
pleasant scheme for a further div. was off ; but an interim
div. for the current year is being paid this month. The
accounts are made up to the end of July.
* • ■» *
Complete returns from the Ruby, Charters
Towers, give an average of £7 15s. lid. per ton. That
sounds good; but with an output of only 100 tons a
month the Ruby requires good stone. The fashion nowa-
days is to float big cos., irrespective of whether the reef
is 6in. or 6ft. wide ; so the Ruby with 6in. in some of its
stopes, and at the most a foot, can’t feel too proud over a
return of £3OBl. It is much the same with Kelly’s and
the Golden Alexandra and all the small fry at the Towers,
where the dividends on the great mob of shares have
become too small and rare to create the slightest en-
thusiasm.
* * * *
Mining in the Kangaroo Hills district (Q.) is
practically a dead letter. Waverley and Red Hills mills
are hung up, and Kallanda township, except for the
“ pub ” and store, is deserted. At Ewan things are
almost as bad ; and a 5-head mill is quite enough. Seven
miles south-west from the Ewan mill the Burdekin River
Co. is opening up a promising silver-lead show ; some of
the carbonates, carrying canary ore, are as good as could
be wished for. The thing to prove is quantity, and, if
that is there, the show is all right. There is a lot of
heavy galena, but, unless this is rich in silver, it will
hardly pay under present conditions.
• * » •
Not one Tasmanian gold mine paid a dividend
during 1907. Mt. Lyell, however, brought the year’s
total for copper mines up to £330,000; tin mines paid
£170,730, and silver-lead mines £87,000.
* * * *
The Tasmanian West Coast miners are now
working at the British-owned mines on the old eight-and-
fourpence a day scale. Fifteen months ago the cos.
arranged to give 9s. while silver was above 2s. 6d. and
lead above £l7 ; but, though it is months since silver saw
half-a-crown, and weeks since lead slithered below £l7,
the cos. made no move until the beginning of this year,
hoping that things would mend. But they haven’t
mended, and they don’t look as though they intended to.
™. ana p; er , Ka PP. of the Tasmanian
Smelting o°., is next month going back to the
country where William sets everything right.
* * * «
Mostly * he local investment stocks that Maon-
enrt S t VlnK 1 S , ln did,,,t feel quite so well at the
were C f h £? dld at fche end of 1906 > though there
1 ® r ! 3 A' ° m ® notable exceptions. The Bank of New Zea-
and moved on up to £9 15s. Here are the closing prices
190 S h ex P ? S i t (^ e 7 e n/ earB : 1901 > £2 9s - 6d - ; 1»02, £3 ss. ;
Whe’nlf ’ 19 ° 4, f 5 ; , 190 7 £7 ls - ; 1906, £9 ; 1907, £9 15s.
hen it was proposed, the other week, that the N.S.W.
as I^arfne 1 Bfhu° 8 f h u° take a hand in the Lithgow ironworks
“Lf,,? a 6 ’ th< ; Daily TRlegraph said that the thing
anTmnnfJm work 77 tha fc there wasn’t a precedent for such
"™ P “ s ble combination. Yet all the time there was the
SU ?, Cess of thls State-saved and partly Sfcate-
n7l!^ban^i? a rH n ? oufc its encouragement at the top of
ce. The Union S.S. Co.’s shares have moved up in
years ,rom £U 7s - 6d to £2O 17s. 6d. ; the
J utn Pr from £l7 2s - 6d.—occurred during the
cnneprn a^h n J h !: In , fact ’ almost the only Maoriland
m7nnL7f7 b t 7 av ? n moved along briskly are such
manufacturing businesses as the woollen cos. Here are
,noted(Ull ‘ »»•
1901. 1907.
r —‘ "*" v
w . . Dividend. Quotation. Dividend. Quotation.
JKaiapoi .. 7 p.c. £6 6 0 6J p.c. £5 0 0
Mosgiel .. 6 „ 40 0 2j ~ 30 0
Wellington 8,, 550 6 „ 360
In the face of apparent increasing prosperity these in-
dustnal concerns decline ; and yet Maoriland won’t give
them the sufficient Protection that alone can save
them from the foreigner, who is flooding the country
n k., Sh 7 dd 7’ “ ade of the ra SS that are scratched out of
all the hovels of Europe.
The sale of the old Burra mine (S.A.) to the
Great Pingall 00. is said to be off. The reason assigned
is the heavy fall in copper, and the fact that the water is
more troublesome than was anticipated.
* * * *
“ Bullfrog ” : So the tariff is to be the stalking
horse on which 8., M. <fc 00. will close down some of
tneir W.A. cats.” In a recent interview in Melbourne,
w.j. Bonng is stated to have said that, “ owing to the
action of the tariff and high wages, they would have no
alternative,” etc., etc. Good old tariff ! it’s well to have
something or someone to lay the blame on, as has been
the case at Mooloort (Vic.), where all the blunders have
been laid at the door of old Henry Gore and others who
preceded 8., M. &Co., and who know more of deep alluvial
mining than the new men are ever likely to learn. It
wouH be interesting to hear Loring’s views on the effect
of his own country’s tariff on mining in “Murka,” and
he might tell us how it is that, in spite of duties much
higher than ours, ruining still flourishes there, and why the
Englishman still invests, though wages also are higher
than in Australia.
* * * *
There are some people who don’t believe that
the new plan for working the Great Fingall will mean
reduced costs. This comes from “ Yalgoo ” “In the
top levMs the Fingall’s shoot of gold was 800 ft. long, but
in the bottom level it is only 300 ft. ; and to work below
that from the present shaft will not pay them. The
shoot is dipping north, and what they propose to do is to
sink a winze in the drive at the north end of the shoot to
1000 ft., and put on trucks and cages and an air winch, so
as to work the downward continuation from that. To do
this will mean adding another 7s. 6d. per ton on
to the cost, with almost a certainty of the shoot of gold
getting shorter as they go down. There is only one hope
at present in sight ; that is in the north drive. In all the
other levels, when they got to the split in the lode, they
could not get anything past it; butin the No. 13 level, in
following on the footwall side, they have a good body of
good-looking ore, which is increasing in value as they
drive. This may save the situation, if there is enough of
it to make it worth while putting down another main
vertical shaft from the surface to catch it at about 3000 ft.,
which will mean an outlay of about £50,000. Otherwise,
Fingall will soon come to the end of its career as a big
dividend-payer.”
* * * *
. “Gk Hard ” : Re “ The Prooshan’s ” shaft-sink-
ing hatter (B. 19/12/’O7). At Ararat (Vic.) saw a really
ingenious portable device to rig over a shaft for single-
handed sinking. It had three ropes. No. 1 hauled up;
No. 2 ran the bucket out on a jib or spar ; No. 3 tipped
the bucket. It was faultless, only the man was fallible,
and sometimes pulled No. 3 instead of No. 2. Then a
bucket of dirt fell on him.
* * * *
“Janor”: “The Prooshan ” is very much off
the track with his shaft-sinking par (B. 19/12/’O7), for it
is utterly impossible for a lone hand to sink in the way
he describes. It is obvious that a bucket cannot be
tipped from below while it is supported by the handle ;
also no one could swing a bucket clear of a shaft mouth
by jerking a tail rope 40ft. below, and only a fool or a
would-be suicide would attempt it. To tip a bucket from
below, the tail rope must lead from a ring in the bottom
of the bucket, through a block fixed on a surface-post at
one side of the shaft, and return into the shaft. The
windlass is set in a chamber in the shaft bottom,
the hauling rope running over a whip-stick pulley.
Thus when the hatter has wound up the bucket,
he sprags the windlass, hauls the tail-rope tight, and
belays it; as the hauling rope is slacked off, the tail-rope
takes the weight, and the bucket swings clear, and
empties, just as coal baskets are swung and tipped into a
ship’s hold. There is no other way of doing the trick.
“ Shoots ” and “ cleats ” are all rot. Of course this con-
trivance can only be used in driving from a shaft. Sink-
ing on your own, themsual plan is to have two 10-gallon
oil drums hung in the shaft; having picked the dirt,
reach down the drums, fill ’em, shin up, and wind. A
God-forsaken game it is. As for miners who “think it
impossible to sink a shaft on your own,” as
“ The Prooshan ” affirms well, they don’t grow
in this country. Most Australian miners have done a bit
that way some time or other—through force of circum-
stances, for none would do it from choice. It cannot
“ easily be done,” and it is also slow and unsafe. Two
men sinking together will easily do 4ft. to the hatter’s
lft. Finally, the statement that the topman is “ idle
three-fifths of his time ”is pure bosh. When not winding
he’s blacksmithing, or trying prospects, or getting tim-
ber or charcoal. He’s been known also to pull the legs of
visitiDg experts.
* * * *
“ M.C.” : A tempting and much-advertised bait
was laid for Australian copper by American refineries—
the favorable contracts secured from them by Mt. Lyell
and Mt. Morgan. But it is worth while to consider the
present abnormally low quotation for electrolytic as
compared with G.M.B. or standard copper. The premium
the electrical trade was willing to pay for electrolytic
copper, because of its purity and high conductivity, used
to go a long way towards paying for the process ; now,
however, the premium on electrolytic copper has nearly
shrunk out of sight, so the process will have to be paid
for out of gold or silver recovered from the copper.
As to whether the loss will fall on Mt. Lyell,
Mt. Morgan, the Queensland Copper Co. (Mt. Perry), or
Chillagoe, which send blister copper and matte abroad,
or upon the refining cos., nothing certain can be said. The
refiners, who undertake to purify copper and recover the
silver and gold out of it, will certainly have a rough time,
and it seems quite on the cards that the mining cos. will
be made to share the loss. Captain Richard, of Mt. Morgan,
says that refineries near New York have run off compe-
tition from the other States ; shipping facilities, cheap
coal and labor have stood to them. Australia will have
to keep an eye on such devouring competition.
* * * *
Zipre: Certainly they do look good, but the
management is supposed to take risks ; and don’t forget
the 4J per cent, handicap Immigrant: Try your own
State Bank first; the terms are most liberal W.G.J. :
Thanks, noted Ezra: Sound, both of them Watson-
ville.: Mt. Boppy’s output: 1904, £91,460; 1905, £116,434 ;
1906, £125,961. Last year’s figures not yet available ; but
they will be ahead of any of these.
drom London: “Shipping people here are
wondering who is going to help the Orient Steamship Co.
to bund the seven new ocean greyhounds. Two and a
naif millions is a large sum for a private shipping com-
pany to finance. Laing, Beardmore and Vickers have all
been named as backers, though the best opinion plumps
for the 1. and O. as the real sponsors of the contract.”
S. M. Herald moralising over an adverse
criticism by Jordan, a wandering American
But the abundant criticisms and descriptions which
emanate from sources outside ourselves we can pass over,
even if occasionally they are rather irritatingly wide of
the mark. After all, Australia suffers no more than most
other countries from the casual glance. Quite differ-
ently, however, should we regard misrepresentations
and slanders which have their source within the Com-
monwealth itself.
This from the Herald, which bolstered up the
Stinking Fish crowd over the Six Hatters Lie,
the Petriana Lie, and other falsehoods, for the
mean object of injuring its political opponents !!


POSTAL EDUCATION
BEARS GOOD FRUIT
■O
fsc
S 3
m
High Silane* and splendid prospects are
opened up to those young men and women
who use rightly their spare evening hours
L Tuition. Besides all general educational
Eg subjects we teach by easy and simple
yet thorough methods i
Bookkeeping, Business Penmanship and
' Correspondence, Arithmetic, Shorthand,
Typewriting, etc.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, etc.
for “HOME STUDY/* Post Fr«a on application
STOTT 8J H O ART'S
BUSINBSS COLLEGE
MOORE STREET
A bad taste in the mouth arises from a
disordered stomach, and may be corrected by
taking a dose of Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets. They cleanse and invigorate the
stomach, improve the digestion, and give one a
relish for food.*
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
GHOSTS OF THE NEVER-NEVER.
No. 1. —Bacon and the Shake.
BILL: “My word, this is a long way off the
forest of Arden, Franky !”
FRANKY : “It is, Wilyum; and now we are here,
far away from all human habitation, suppose
we settle about them stolen plays?” (Pulls
out shooter.)
~T_ T _ , ... _
Ku Klux : He billy boiling. In spite
of the satire of certain Abo. writers, I support
“Batcher.” Place two round sticks on billy, and
water will not smoke, no matter what side of the
fire you place it at. But sticks must be round,
Smoke curls round and round, and away at ends,
Use square or flat sticks, and water will smoke.
Bismallah ! I have spoken.
“T.A.W.”: “W.H.M.” (B. 19/12/’O7)
lands in the midst of “ Agricola’s” yarn about a
gohanna and a ’possum with a tremendous thud ;
but his own account of how he hunted ’possum in
the bad old days moves me to ejaculate “ Rats ! ”
The only thing in the narrative that seems pro-
bable is the remark that they didn’t get many
’possums. In the first place, “W.H.M.” ap-
parently doesn’t know that ’possums don’t frequent
saplings—except perhaps at night time, for the
purpose of feeding on the young leaves. The
’possum likes a tree with a good, roomy hollow in
it. When I was a kid on the Murrumbidgee, we
hunted during the winter months with great as-
siduity, for ’possum skin is valuable at that time.
Our favorite method was snaring. The snare was
constructed of a double piece of pack-thread
about 2ft. long, and a piece of copper-wire of
about the same, or slightly lesser, length to
stiffen it. The whole was wound spirally together,
and a loop constructed at one end. Armed with
a couple of hundred of these snares and a toma-
hawk, we would wander forth in the late after-
noon, and when we found a tree which showed by
scratches on the bark and other signs that it was
the home of a ’possum, a stake would be cut and
leaned against the tree. The snare was then
securely affixed to the stake about half-way down,
and a circular-shaped running noose about three
inches in diameter formed across the stake by
means of the loop mentioned above. The copper-
wire stiffening caused it to retain its shape and
to stand up perpendicularly from the stake.
When at nightfall the ’possum came down the
tree to look for food, he selected the stake as an
easy way down the last few feet, and, not being
particularly keen of sight, would not notice the
noose until his head was in it. Of course many
snares would miss, but it was common to bag fifty
’possums or more in a night, and the skins were
worth from 4s. to 10s. per dozen. On moonlight
nights we augmented the bag by shooting, or
“mooning” as it is called —manoeuvring to get a
’possum between yourself and the moon, so that
you can get the gun-sights on him. But the
’possum on the Murrumbidgee is a scarce animal
these days ; the poison laid for rabbits has played
havoc with his kind. ’Possums like a change
from their ordinary diet of gum-leaves, and take
the bait much more readily than bunny. Conse-
quently the ’possum-snarer is no longer known in
the land ; his place has been taken by the rabbit-
snapper.
“ Mallarapoonie ” : Riding home from the
pub t’other evening, up a gully between the ranges
I came upon what looked like a small volcano in
active eruption on a little patch of bare ground.
Sand, dust, and gravel spouted 4ft. into the air.
I was interested. Sat on my horse watching it.
By-and-bye, 20in. of horny substance came up out
of the crater and waved itself at me. I was fasci-
nated. Then two legs with hands on them
appeared out of the dust and gesticulated at the
surrounding aspect. I was horrified. Reckoned
I’d struck an entirely new brand of jimjam. I
uncoiled the stockwhip, and hit the apparition on
the off hind leg. Then 30in. more of old man
gohanna backed violently out of the hole and
glared round. Beads of perspiration were on his
brow, and his whiskers were full of sugar ants.
When I rode away he was still guarding the hole
and poking out his tongue at me, and using
terrible language. Evidently he had important
business with those ants.
“ Sawdust King ” : You never know when
you have some men. Struck Dubbo, t’other day,
and observed leaning against a main street pub
post my old friend Bob. Plainly he
was depressed. He said brokenly :
“ My case is on ter-day, en ez far as
I kin grarsp the matter it’s abso-
blanky-lootly a blank cert I get five
years. It’s all over that neddy I
pinched time you an’ me wus ter-
gether. I faked th’ brands orlright,
but some swine noo ’im. I’ll do er
stretch over this right ’nuff. I wish
I never see th’ damn colt. I got ole
Blowhard ’pearing fer me, but wot
th’ ’ell can ’e do? I shook th’ moke
an’ that’s all erbout it. Avenother ? ”
I did, and waited to hear Bob
sentenced. But old Blowhard did
well. He argued and lied, and lied
and argued with much vim, and the
jury brought in a verdict of not
guilty. Bob settled dazedly with his
solicitor ; and I met him outside. I
suggested another refresher, and
while imbibing took occasion to con-
gratulate him on the obtuseness of
the law, and the fact that he was free
and ahead of the game by the value
of the colt. Convulsed with anger,
he turned on me and thundered out
“You gotter dam cheek, talking like
that ! ’Spose I made yer prove it,
where’d jew B ? Yer’eard ole Blow-
hard say I didn’t shake the ’orse ; th’
jury says I didn’t shake it, an’-an’-
damifiknowif-ididernot meself, now.
You cheese yer sorcy talk about that
’orse or I’ll ’ave the law on yer.”
A battered swagman is now lying in a
Victorian hospital as the result of miscalcula-
tion. He was camped under the end of the
Murray bridge at Echuca. Coming home on a
recent Saturday night, he threw himself and his
swag over the bridge to save, perhaps, 100yds.
tramp to the end of it and then back down the
earthen embankment. He thought the drop was
about a fathom, but it was really 60ft., and first
the falling swag and then the falling pilgrim
nearly landed on top of another swagman who
was camped below, and who nearly died of fright
at the thud. By some wonderful chance, the
long distance dropper wasn’t killed outright, but
he was so badly hurt that the doctors spent some
days cataloguing his damages.
* * * ft
“Brad” : I wrote a par about bees keeping
late hours, and I also mentioned a “triantelope’s”
web. “Pine Scrub” says (B. 26/12/’O7) I don’t
know anything about either matter —that bees
are always respectable and the tri. has no web.'
From this I gather that “P. Scrub” has never
met a bee that has dallied too long in its cups,
with the result that, the flower closing, the honey-
bibber has been locked up for the night. I have
met them, though—often. “Pine Scrub” says
that the tri. does not spin a web. Well, if he will
call on one of my “At Home ” days, he can still
gaze to his heart’s content on the identical web in
which the “ scrap ” I referred to took place.
A YOUNG PSYCHOLOGIST.
REVEREND PERSON (doing an odd job with the
church fence): “ You appear to be watching
me very closely, boy. Do you take an interest
in carpentry? ”
B OY: “ No! ”
REV. P. : “ Then what are you waiting for? ”
B OY: “ I’m waitin’ to hear what a parson says
when he hits his fumb wiv the hammer.”
“Cicfc” : Re the current plague of grass-
hoppers. The other week, while having breakfast
in a pub in the Corowa (N.S.W.) district, my
tenth egg proved to contain a ’hopper well up to
average size and weight. The insect, and also the
egg, had been deceased quite a long time. We
had a drink after that, and I was told the occur-
rence was fairly common. It would appear that
the fowl consumes enormous crowds of the insect
in a hurried kind of way, and the ’hopper is said
to sometimes become entangled in the egg manu-
factory and to find an exit per medium of the
finished article.
IN THE SWIM.
FIRST DIRTY ONE : “ Wot are you doing so near the water?”
SECOND DO.: "Just down for the lathing season.”
“Shaun the Post” : I heard this speech
delivered at a meeting of that most-humorous-
institution-on-earth, a Maoriland Road Board (it
was in the backblocks of Auckland): —
“ Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, I’m stopped. I’m
stopped on me road—the road I’ve been going
this twenty years these twenty years. Mr.
Chairman, i was driving a few ould cattle a
few ould cattle the other morning. When I was passing
McShane’s house, I saw McShane and the wife going
across the paddock. Whin I got to the bridge on the
road—the bridge on the road, the wife was on the bridge.
She’d a hammer —a hammer and a paper in her hand.
She was standin’on the bridge. ‘ Where are you going?’
says she. ‘ I’m going the road,’ says I —‘ the road I’ve
been going this twinty years.’ ‘ There’s no road here,’ says
she. ‘ There is,’says I. ‘ You won’t pass,’says she. ‘Butl
will, says I. Gentlemin, I wint to pass, I wint to pass ;
but she’d a hammer, a hammer, and she said she’d brain
me. Gintlemin, I’d to go round by the mountain road.
McShane sat on the top of the hill. He didn’t come down
at all. But the wife, she’d a hammer, she’d a hammer
and a paper in her hand ! Gintlemin, I want justice.
Here’s the plan, the plan of the road—the road I’ve been
stopped on.
Then the meeting buzzed like a capsized beehive,
and wild, staring men looked at the plan, and
everybody spoke at once for four hours.
* * * *
Le Petit Francais has been turning
Australia’s “laughing .Tack’’into French. Like
this: “0,6,6,61 d,d,d,d,dl Couac! couacl”
“Ed”: Moorm-
bool Forest (larg-
est Vic. State
forest), between
Heathcote and
Nagambie, con-
tains much
middling-sized
timber, with
about three
giant trees
to the acre.
The timber is
ironbark,
box, gum, and
stringy-bark,
and the whole
forest isleased
as a sheep
run. Before
the introduc-
tion of sheep
the trees were
very sparse,
but since then
immense num-
bers of seed-
lings have
sprung up and
caused a dense
growth of
straight sap-
lings, which
will in future
provide very fine
timber. The
sheep with their
sharp hoofs break
up the surface of
the soil, and the
fine seed of the
eucalypts, falling
on the loosened
earth, is able to
germinate. Th i s
second growth is
about 30 years old.
In the Avoca dis-
trict I have seen
splendid avenues of
red gums, which were
obtained by simply
running a couple of
parallel plough - fur-
rows in the vicinity of
the old red gums. The
very fine seeds blown
about by the wind were
intercepted in the brok-
en soil, and thereafter
germinated. Wattle trees
also spring up after a
bush fire has passed over
a district, because the seed,
being in a very tough skin, is
unable to germinate until it is cracked by the
heat. The spring rains after a bush fire cause a
great growth of these young wattles. The fire-
weed of Grippsland is another plant that comes up
very thickly after a bush fire.
* * * *
“ Trader,” from German New Guinea :
Apropos the yarn (B. 14/11/’O7) of the devoted mission-
ary who so stirred the last Methodist Conference in Mel-
bourne with the blood-curdling story of his sufferings at
Luiniuwa, the romancer couldn’t have struck a worse
island to fasten on to. In the letter that was read amid
“Hallelujahs” to the unsuspecting Conference, it was men-
tioned that there is no fresh water on the island, so the
inhabitants drink cocoanut-milk. As a matter of fact, in
the chief’s village on Luiniuwa is the finest well I have
ever seen in the Western Pacific, and the water is first-
class. I’ve filled my tanks there, so I know. The natives
have a custom of forming an arch made of cocoanut leaves
over any newly-arrived boat on landing, and they beat
the boat with branches at the same time. This is to scare
off any germs of sickness. Perhaps it was the prepara-
tion for this harmless custom which scared off the
teachers and led to the weird yarn which so moved the
good Methody souls. As to the natives having a terrible
fear of missionaries, that’s just rot—plain tommy-rot. I
don’t suppose, though, that they exactly yearn for tha
teacher and his teaching, for these would kind of clash
with some of their time-honored customs.
“Binang” : A correspondent (B. 26/12/’O7)
makes the statement that birds, after eating
poisoned wheat, fly to mistletoe berry or leaf
for relief. This sounds very much like a
whale. All the same, the mistletoe berry,
where I know it (N.Q.), is a very strong
emetic. The berries have a very pleasant
flavor until you have one too many aboard.
Then the unloading operations commence with
the suddenness and force of a cyclone. One
experence is guaranteed to cure the most con-
firmed mistletoe fancier of any desire for the
berries.
“ Hiphen’s ” tale :
Mac and I were plodding wearily along the hot, dusty
road.
“ How far to Birragurrah ? ” we asked a passer-by.
“ ’Bout four mile,” answered the country yob.
We pushed on steadily for about 20 minutes till we met
a road-mender.
“ How far Birragurrah ? ” we inquired.
“ Four miles,” was the answer.
In silence we picked up our burning feet and went
forward.
After an hour’s steady walking we hit a wayside shanty
where again we made inquiry as to the distance of
Birragurrah.
The gentleman of the house looked at us, gazed down
the road, made some abstruse calculations, spat, and re-
marked : “ Aw, abart four mile.”
' “ Thank HeaveD, we’re holding our own,” said Mac.
THE CURSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Curse op the Cow.
Dissatisfied Lad’s Story.
WORKIN'G FROM 4 A.M. TILL 9 P.M.
Yesterday, at the Central Police Court, a young lad
named Harold Brown appeared on a charge of absconding
from the apprenticeship of his master at Albion Park.
Brown, when arrested in Sydney, gave as his reason for
leaving Albion Park that he had to work too hard. He
stated that he was engaged on a dairy farm, where he
had to rise at 4 a.m., and work until 9 p.m. He was re-
manded till Monday to Wollongong Police Court.
Sydney paper.
Home thro’ the mud the Curses trail,
Home to the muddy milking bail.
Complaining bellows shake the skies
Before the farmer opes his eyes.
Then rises a most unholy din —
“ Ere ! get up you, th’ cows is in ! ”
With eyelids heavy still with sleep,
They stumble down, or crawl or creep
To where the Curses —calm, sedate,
Wait in a mob outside the gate.
Each stolid Curse awaits its turn
To give the milk that feeds the churn.
Each vassal as he toils, thinks, “ Now
I am the servant of the Cow.”
He fills the cans and milks away,
And sees the coming of the day.
And, when the morning’s milk is ta’en
Each Curse is driven forth again
To browse and dream out in the sun
(The milker’s day has just begun).
All thro’ the noontide heat they keep
Pegging away. (The Curses sleep,
Or swish their tails the stream beside,
Waiting the tranquil eventide.)
When come the hot and dusty men
To drive the Curses home again.
Then in a shambling mob they trail
Back to the weary milking bail.
Where, without sound, inside the bars,
The work goes on beneath the stars.
Till all the work is finished. Hark !
The pad of hoof-beats in the dark !
So, with the sound of cloven feet,
The Curses make their dumb retreat
Into the darkness black, forlorn,
To wait the coming of the morn.
The milker hurries homeward lest
The ebbing nigflt shall take his rest,
And respite seeks within the walls,
Until the sword of labor falls.
And in his dreams a Shape of Sin
Cries to him : “ Hey ! th’ cows is in ! ”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Your complexion, as well as your temper,
is rendered miserable by a disordered liver. By
taking Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets
you can improve both.*
A
Police
Magis-
trate,
dating from
Hay,
writes as follows
. > ' V"
mm
Lady’s 14-ct. Gold Lever, £7/15/-.
In 18-ct. Gold Case, £9 ; 14-ct. Gold Open
Face Case, £6/6/- ; 18-et. Gold Open Face
Case, £7/7/-
“ I may say that both watches have given me the greatest
satisfaction, still keeping as accurate time as the day I pur-
chased them from you seven years ago, though they have under-
gone very rough usage whilst I have travelled many thousands
of miles in the far backblocks of N. S. Wales. They are the
only brand that I have found to successfully resist the terrible
duststorms of the Trans-Darling country.”
The famed “F.&R.” Watches are made for and stocked
by us in every size for Ladies and Gentlemen, and are cased
in Gun Metal, Silver and Gold. They are made in two grades
—one grade with seven Jewels, the other with 15 Jewels.
Gent.’s f-plate Lever, Oxidised Steel Open
Face Case, 7 Jewels, 28/-; 15 Jewels, 33/-.
In Silver Open Face Case, 45/-
Every Watch carries a written guarantee for 15 years, and is kept in order free (breakages excepted) for two
.years. Every Watch is profoundly accurate and strongly reliable. We unhesitatingly say they are the Best and
Cheapest Watches the world has yet produced. We know this after nearly three-quarters of a century Watch
selling. We sell thousands of Watches every year, and receive numbers of such letters as the extract we publish.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
From Beatrice Grimshaw’s S. M. Herald
articles, “The Real Papua”
Hot? Yes, certainly. If one elects to travel within
nine degrees of the equator one must expect to feel warm
at times. But there is nothing deadly about the New
Guinea heat, after all. When one can ride all day in the
full sun, and acquire nothing worse than an amazing
hunger and a consuming thirst, there is nothing much to
complain of.
.That “deadly tropical climate,” as Bruce Smith
calls it!
* * * *
“ Minko ” : The bushy-detection question
arouses much difference of opinion. Know how
we pick them in Brisbane ? If in a mixed party,
the mulgas invariably clasp hands before ventur-
ing to cross the street—girls inside, older boys at
each wing—and after waiting until every electric
car in the neighborhood has passed their appointed
route, the wings rush across, dragging with them
the slower and more timid hen members of the
expedition. The hazardous journey negotiated
safely, they smile affably on each other while
regaining breath, and then turn to gaze earnestly
at the buildings on the side of the street they
have just left. No shop window fails to attract a
bushy’s attention. An undertaker’s wares are as
attractive to him as a post-card display. But the
fruit shop he cannot pass without entering, and
presently he emerges laden with a large bag of
orchard product, which he proceeds to put away
en route. It is not an uncommon occurrence to
see a healthy, blooming bush girl constitute her-
self the receptacle of a dozen large bananas in as
many minutes.
NOT HIS POISON.
BARBER: “ Would yer care for a shampoo?”
BARCOO BILL: “No, Mister. I never drunk the
blinded stuff. I don't mind ’avin’ a long
beer!”
A stranger to this country has written to
The Bulletin in great distress, and related a
story of infinite pathos and suffering, directly
attributable to a recent Abo. controversy :
I read that if a person comes in contact with a snake,
a good plan is to drop his hat to hold the long
thing’s attention while you go and get a stick. The
other day I met my first snake, and dropped my hat,
according to instructions. When I returned with the
stick I was surprised to find the snake was gone.
I was about to pick up my hat to proceed on my journey,
but found the snake had taken shelter inside. As no
instructions had been given to meet such a case, I waited
for some time, then decided to go on for advice. When
I got back both hat and snake were gone, and it seems
to me I have been badly treated. If any “ Abo.” contri-
butor finds a snake wearing a hard black hat, size 6f,
will he, therefore, please return the hat to the N.S.W.
Intelligence Bureau ? He can keep the snake.
‘Andante”: Has any Bulletin reader
dvirio- , P um^>.ers °f Pine trees (Pinus insignis)
tin'' U’ ,saptan P- Deaths are very numerous in
th s (Camden) distnet. To-day I found a pine,
rmla f W llch ’, S a PP^ ren tly quite dead, with the
dead portions literally covered with small cocoons.
flnr , , re iA ere a c e n ? coeoons the tree is quite green
» hlif 1 tby ‘ ? aid cocoons are a bout an inch and
, , n S’ a n (J contain a very lively and aggress-
ive black grub, decorated with a splash of cream
on his gable end.
Nodrog : Redmond and Marshall set
then lines, and lazily rolled on the bank.
I hey had ridden twenty miles for a
Saturday afternoon and Sun-
day's fishing, and now it was
dusk. Tired of the stillness of
the floaters, Marshall scanned
the ranges. By-and-bye his
eye became glued to a ledge
of granite, far up the hill.
He sat upright; he stood,
and still he gazed. His
eyes began to dilate and
his face whiten. Then
Redmond looked. He
also saw, on the ledge,
with its back against a
wall of rock, a huge
black object, human in
form, its long, black,
tawny hair falling over
its shoulders. “ It’s a
gorilla,” gasped Red-
mond. The two men
bolted ; and as they fled,
they knew the beast had
seen and was pursuing them.
The wallabies, startled by
the racing riders, thumped
through the bush ; and then the
terror-stricken men knew forcer-
tain that they were followed. Now
it was in front, and as thev wheeled
it fell behind. But when thev
got on the open road, it followed
them no more. When they reached
town a search party formed. Its
component parts scoured the
country through, but no track of
any monster could be found. But
pressing forward, there, on the
same shelf of rock, and in the
same position, sat the gorilla.
The excitement was keen now.
The men, with rifles loaded, com-
menced to surround the brute
Under cover of the rocks, they
crept up the mountain side ;
then one of them, in advance
of his mates, rose, took aim,
and fired. The bullet did its
work ; and when the men came
to divide their winnings, they
had one corpulent old black
gin, who had left her home some
tinm previously to die, and had been dead various
* * • *
“Agricola”: When a camp has been
formed in the bush by fencers, trappers pros
pectors or other nomads, they are not IoZ
without visitors who tend to become partud
boarders and lodgers. Within a day of fastening
the tent pegs, the magpies call round to do* a bit
of cleaning up.
Within 48 hours
the ’possums may
be heard skidding
off the roof dur-
ing the midnight
hours, and about
the same time an
officious gohanna
looks in. The last-
named visitor is
the least popular
of all, and oft-
times his friend-
ship gets nipped
in the bud, as it
were, bya waddy.
But, if ignored,
he does well on
camp pickings,
and becomes mud
fat. He also be-
comes a bit of a
nuisance, and will
collar miscellane-
ous items for
which he has no
earthly use. On
one occasion our
camp boasted a
monstrous bloat-
ed reptile, which
got so familiar
that it would
drop in for tucker
on Sundays, same
as week-days. For
some time we had
been mourning
the loss of odds
and ends of tin-
ware, and blamed
the swaggies.
However, coming
home unexpect-
edly one morning
for a spare pick,
I surprised that
gohanna making
off with his head
held high, carry-
ing one of our
few remaining
pannikins. I fol-
lowed him up, and found our missing pro-
perty in the hollow butt of a messmate; then I
smote the thief amidships with 2ft. 6in. of timber,
and collected his thefts. Since then, gohannas
rank with Chows, and are treated accordingly at
our camp.
* * * *
“Copper”: “Gum Boot” narrates (B.
21/11/’O7) how he found fish in gold boxes after
they had travelled through pipes for half-a-mile.
At the Wallaroo smelting works (S. Aus.) a large
centrifugal pump supplies the water jacket fur-
naces with water, drawing it from the sea, and
sending it into a large storage tank a quarter of a
mile away. Fish are drawn through and forced
into the tank without being damaged in the least.
Also spawn is shot into the tank, and hatched,
and whenever the manager requires fish for dinner
a man is detailed with hook and line to catch
some.
, ‘Benbeo”: For quaint; naming I think
J’ al; Linger and Die ” should be in the running,
though its neighbor, “Arise and Shine,” on the
other side of the water-shed (in Mackay district,
bi-), is close up. ihe Shire Council ran a rail-
way out to Linger and Die, but failed to per-
petuate that beautiful English name. As per
usual there was a member of the council who
Wished to lend his name to something, so Linger
mid Die became Kirkup. Come to think of it,
Jvirkup has a hiccuppy flavor, and is certainly
much more cheerful than Linger and Die
GEHENNA AS A PIPE LIGHT.
MIKE: “ Could you give me a match, sor?"
IRRITABLE GENT: “ Oh, go to hell!”
MIKE: “ Sure it’s a long way t’ go fer a light
fer a mans pipe.”
By “ Caro ” :
Sunday on an Outback station, and our day for service,
which means the rolling up of the whole district, and the
belated appearance of the visiting sky-pointer. The long
verandah was selected as the place of worship, and we of
the household toiled indefatigably, carrying out chairs
and lounges, fixing the hessian curtains, and struggling
with sundries. The first instalment of the congregation
arrived early, in the shape of a boundary-rider, his
“ missus ” and baby. They retreated to the hack regions,
to be regaled on tea and food. Two shearers, with
covetous eyes on the housemaid, rode up on valuable
hacks. The station men and their cronies gathered
round the stables, while their wives gossiped and
drank tea in the kitchen. A dilapidated drag appeared
from the next .station ; then a dashing dog-
cart with a Melbourne bride; a comfortable,
easy buggy ; a few spring carts, a waggonette, more
buggies ; and, lastly, the parson, jogging slowly and
creakily along, with mud-begrimed wheels and spiritless
steeds. After he had quaffed some refreshment and
scraped most of the mud from his bony countenance (he
had mistaken the ford at the creek), we took possession
of the verandah, amid much giggling from the cook and
housemaid, who were worried over their onerous posi-
tions as kitchen hostesses. Little black books were doled
round, and service commenced. The Melbourne bride
shared her book with a shearer, who nearly strangled
with embarrassment. A governess strummed the
hymns, and always managed, in spite of our lusty
efforts to catch her, to keep two bars ahead.
A few maternal disappearances with unruly infants,
a strange dog pursuing the family cat, and the
rat-like squeaks of an hysterical girl, were the only dis-
turbances. “ Let us pray.” I opened an eye and caught
the cook slinking from the outskirts in quest of the
dinner. The host was sleeping iniquitously in a canvas
chair, blissfully' oblivious of the stealthy thumps of his
better half. The bride unconsciously dropped her hand-
kerchief, and the shearer was meditating visibly whether
he dare pick it up. After the last “Amen,” came a
furious scrambling of chairs, much floundering of feet,
and some snorts. The goats were separated from the
sheep, and we went in to dinner.
THE PUBS DOWN BRIGHTON WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brighton Beach (Vic.) attracts the thirsty
owing to the fact that this suburb contains the nearest
and most conveniently-reached' Travellers’ Houses out of
Melbourne. In order that the law-abiding citizen mav
obtain a lawful drink on the Sabbath, every facilitv is
Tn'it’i l) ' V -] the * or ra P'd conveyance to Brighton, “per
lait s rail or Bent s new electric cars.
Beh boot he r ° arin " multitu de that goes, per bike and
Per day ? nd ° ar and Prad ’ t 0 beer at Bri »' hton Beach to-
Upon this day the Lord hath made—with quick cars on
the route
To feed the meeting-houses and the pubs down Brighton
way. °
Warm bikers swarm and shout along the bars, as thick as
shags
That throng the wet, seaweedy shore around the ship-
wrecked shark ;
All afternoon the stout suburban Bung pulls beer and
bags
His sinful cash—all day and through the thirsty summer
O, see the things that bounce along beside the Brighton
beach,
Wild motor-car and traveller’s trap, slow van and cab and
dray,
Whose drivers’ hot desires are set upon one aim—to
reach
Far havens of cool liquor in the pubs down Brighton way.
O, smell that scent —the scent of several thousand
Brighton beers !
Here, though the day be scorching hot, or
cool, or gray,
The boner-ftdey travellin’ bloke shakes off his doubts and
fears
And finds his joy and freedom in the pubs down
Brighton way !
vie.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
M> notice (except of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Alf. K. : Don’t know anything about the joke
you say you “sent in six or seven years ago.” Anyhow
the joke on that picture didn’t come from you.. ..Tas. :
Any items you send will be considered, but we can’t
undertake to acknowledge pars in this column. It would
take too much space... .Bloomophone : Horror comes too
soon after the Christmas pudding Clancy: Just
pleasant album verses—l 6 for sixpence Lucifer : The
path to the basket is paved with good intention's....
Habberton Lulham (London): Words... .C.G. : “ Which?
Ah, which?” To which we respond, “Whaffor?”
James Haskin : Please get discouraged E. Webber’ 1
Two rules for you : (1) Don’t send long explanatory or
apologetic letter in with MS. ; (2) Don’t send MS. y ...
w : X ery gruesome and dull is “John Shipley.”
W.J.A. : A very poor joke based on the Dreyfus affair is
a horrible case of being a century behind the ’bus... .Sam
Ambry n : And all the same, the blessed Act was broken
in ten pieces every day.. ..H. Peterson : There never has
been real I reetrade in any Australian State-at least not
for sixty or seventy years. Your question is too large,
r! a X ere <r. e « vln Ft : Sub i ecfc wants smarter treatment..
C.S.G. : Man s Love ” good in form, but the idea’s too
trite. Try again H.B. : You write breathlessly
to announce that you have been delivered of, or have
laid, evolved, or what not, “ an original snake yarn, true
but slightly spiced up,’ full of interest, bristling with
excitement, crammed with laugh-creating incident ” etc.
etc., and inquire the cash value of the effort.’ If It
approaches the specification supplied by you the work is
an epic, and hence, practically speaking, priceless. Send
it along on appro, with name and address on back—
always remembering that Milton snared but a few paltry
coins for the greatest snake-yarn ever written
1 Inconnu : Australian character essay not “up.”.! .".
Dingo : Probably your contributions weren’t good enough.
Its impossible to answer everyone in this column
True Blue (Central Queensland): Anecdote re “the
time-honored British Christmas pudding” in your town-
ship which turned out to be “ a thing noxious to the
body human ’ is over-weight in the matter of style
Lantana : Details re that prolific Tyringhamian with the
children appeared in Bulletin weeks ago Foolscap :
“Test Match ” only up to second-grade suburban form....
Wyuna : Jack-of-all-trades competition buried, and not
yet due for resurrection. Pars, are not acknowledged
—if they are good enough they are printed ; space won’t
run to anything more ...Spectator: Your weeping
letter, saying that Australia’s doom is obviously to be
swallowed by China, and we might as well give up all
hope, and spend the defence money in drink, to hand.
Over 2000 years ago an excited person brought the report
to Greece that Xerxes was coming with an army 5,283 220
strong, and he probably howled just like you. Also,
during the first siege of Saragossa, another Jeremiah
started holding forth to the inhabitants in the same
strain, but General Palafox, the “ war-to-the-knife ” man
hanged him in the first paragraph of his oration..
W.E.D. :No stinking fish, thank you S.W.L. : Not a
gleam of hope Vary :It rhymes—mostly. But, though
it is our day for being pleasant, We can’t honestlv say
anything more cheerful about it... .Guyblat: “Christ-
mas Song” shows some lyrical faculty, but not a new
idea it’s a pretty tough subject to tackle for new ideas.
.... Mahatma : Picked this out of a rather poor collection :
Once I dreamt the world was calling
For my verse—
Like Vulcan’s great sledge-hammer falling
I dreamt I heard the world a-calling.
Then I woke to hear it bawling
For my hearse.
Runham : Nice sympathetic little sketch, but out
of our line Yargan: Gladly agree to withdraw
Iluka from the Sad Town competition. By all accounts
it has no chance of success.... Cabin Boy: Tom swallowed
poison and the Boss gave him an emetic. Then the Boss
telephoned to Tom’s old man, who, being hard of hearing,
fell under the delusion that the Boss had assaulted Tom
with a mattock. The yarn might interest an ear specialist
....Sr: Decline to start a discussion re origin of
“ Matilda” and “ billy.” Previous discussions left things
where they were.... J.H. (GrongGrong): Lines beginning
I’ve been asking for work but ’twas all in vain,
For they turned me away like a dog.
If all other swagmen are treated the same
They’d not dwell on the plains very long,
to hand. From them it appears that you got a
fencing job and subsequently (as you did no work.
but slept under a tree all day) the sack
Wang : Bill has for the most part returned to his cow till
this time next year; wherefore the controversy as to
how the said Bill may be best identified in the city has
been shelved... The Bushranger: You send a w 7 ordy
yarn (alleging the same to be “ a real fact ”) concerning a
cow’ which fell ill in your neighborhood, and subsequently
died. The subject is old—old as sin. Cows are expiring
everywhere, every day, and have been for aeons past. You
offer no fresh stimulating criticism on the episode. You
don’t even know what the animal died of: simply she
died. Goto; and resolve to delve more deeply into your
subject before you again essay a cow obituary notice....
J.S.P. (Palmerston) : Verses show 7 promise, but you w’ant
to take more care w ith metre and rhymes. Try again
H. A. Ley: Not very absorbing R.W.T. (Fitzroy, Vic.):
Sorry you are ill. Cannot find any worth print in the
batch....D.H. : Merely a New 7 Year’s wish... G.F.B. :
“ Alone with Wild Regret.” Yes, so were we after we’d
read it.... E. A. D. (Ballarat): ‘‘ There’s many a time I feel
annoyed.” Well, when your verses came in we felt
annoyed... .Vandal : “Doing a Knock” crashed into
the basket... .Lysaus: We looked doubtfully at
May, and decided she was too riotous for print....
J.H.P. (Kelly’s Plains) : You say “ she left her home and
her husband’s love to join in the giddy whirl.” Well,
where is the giddy w'hirl? Others not up to print level.
....J. Peeb : We like to be as cheerful as possible.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Vox :It never had a hope Ault: Too small a joke
Red : “ Am I a father or a mother?” is a most anti-
quated conundrum H.W.T. : That person has fallen
pictorially off the same tram-car too often. Picture of
domestic feud torpid and unconvincing Star: All
hopeless F.B. : “ City Sketch ” too thin for words
Valli: “Any danger of a job?” is a question that has
been done to death. As for the man who mistakes a
tombstone-maker’s place for a cemetery, he is beneath
derision.


m
' VM"- sViall iffe
try te f
)m F^^ly
'Why 'ftfere IS Wy ,n II T All •
ft
o°tvinei
OfJ
• 'i#
M r 3udKins rcj\bbcvc4 "in A. viooroa^
denVme "H* wc#kK ,n C Tei<* * KeitcrA+'ina 0 h>S
IU T+o>urify“ Melbourne.
/\i
"rW ‘fioUa.ys
ve over ir-.s
>SS«e wr.i"s in
-fte H&/ V '*sf e ’' WI 11 b *
goodness v/e
%/<. I>&\C.K Ifo»r>e
U I>iy«SS f^' ..
Ke*\' n •
'"W*sW itfcir Tnrje Wirf, ll^-fbmfoolety
IK w ComI4 Tie worKir.' .fo/ «n*
1 nutti'" A
AVS^Jjlied-
B~ is much
tester r 1 0ur1 % )
J aj"
for $e buytitK
of life tb
"be in
f o*'' 0 *''
WV
I> r H
v «yW»WoNS M
Tie
(W IKere ire J
in IKe Test .Mitch** ike -rtjirci, k
I poi-fone pi «rc et f u'«,T one.
yia^^^n-fte 's.— *
w" " Ihe Ofyzr
9 'S
iower oj-
(J3e*vt~ j
The 'Atf" <Wv‘ rtr, J • _ •*
l+wo’Ut' of n r ß«fi f y, "’^ >
W* f
The Cov 1 " is firmly
+- /////ft)
af ike Senate h
f///
, Kt
Rogwamp a[=>!
" | Only a
'for' A i— *Hi hdicttlouV- I'h.-I Is
3 ' (lei -T ihsfn 3 )
JUDKINS, BENT, AND OTHERS.


QUEENSLAND’S POLITICAL SITUATION.
THE OVER-MASTED SHIP PHILP RUNNING BEFORE THE WIND.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming' Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents,
If you will give Chamberlain’s Tablets a
trial, and experience their mild and pleasant
effect, you will never wish to take another dose
of pills.*
HAVE A CARE FOR YOUR EYES,
The great Poet Milton asks :
Why was this sight
To such a tender hall of the eye confined.
Therefore when afflicted with Sandy
Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, &e.,
don’t experiment, but use the Australian
National Remedy,
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Preparation has been the salva-
tion of thousands. Rose’s Celebrated
Eye Lotion is sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally a postal note
for 1/9 to the Proprietors, will bring you
a bottle by return post.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers :
H. A. ROSE & CO.,
Chemist and Druggist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Chief Justice Madden, of Vic., who heard
the Wallace case and delivered the remarkable
summing-up, is 63.
Mr. Victor Shakspeare, a resident for 50
years of Warren, on the Macquarie (N.S.W.), is
dead. He told this scribe that he “ belonged to
the family of the Stratford-on-Avon man who
wrote plays.”
When a person called Bottle —Bill Bottle,
to wit—rolled into Melbourne City lock-up on the
last of six consecutive blistering days, he might
reasonably have been expected to be empty. But,
even after six days of blistering heat and drought,
Bottle was full—very, very full—so full that the
Court was unusually angry with him next day.
The most precise and methodical suicide
of the coming year will probably not beat a retired
Sydney ship captain, who got weary of struggling
with the bills a few days after the year had begun,
and took poison. He cleaned up the place nicely,
then sat down and wrote out the coroner’s verdict
for that over-worked official: “Death from an
overdose of laudanum, self-administered.” Then,
so as not to make a litter about the place he had
cleaned up, he pinned the verdict to the wall.
Naturally a man with habits as precise as that
wanted to be sure he was dead after he had killed
himself, so to speak; consequently he wrote
another note to the coroner asking him to stick
pins in the corpse, or do whatever was the proper
thing, to make sure that the corpse was as real a
corpse as it pretended to be. He reckoned it was
an untidy thing to be buried alive.
Vasco Loureiro, the Melbourne boy who
is travelling the universe (or some of it) making
profile sketches of his fellow-man at a “bob-a-
head,” got his photo and a complimentary notice
in the New York World the other week. Vasco,
the vivacious, has been gathering much silver on
the tour he mapped out for himself before leaving
Melbourne. He wrote from Hall Caine’s Island,
in July : “ I am living in camp at Douglas, and
do two return trips a week to Liverpool, Dublin,
and Belfast—average 160 miles a day sea travel-
ling. The English, Scotch, Irish, and Americans
on board keep me busy.” In America, he raised
his price to half a dollar, and went on prospering.
“Find biz on the Hudson River boats as good as
any I have worked on so far,” he reported in
October. “ But the season closes in a week, and
I shall leave next Monday for Florida.” Pro-
bably this unusual young man will sketch him-
self back to Australia early next year. The main
consideration with Vasco Loureiro is “ biz.” His
art is in the right place—next to his pocket.
Printed that Commonwealth Chief Justice
Samuel Griffith is spending the long vacation with
his son-in-law, Mr. George Doyle, at Cardington
Hall, near Molong (N.S.W.). The Hall was at
one time the property of John McNevin, a wealthy
squatter, whose daughter inherited everything.
She engaged herself to the son of a Molong family,
but threw him over for a more garish admirer, and
the rejected one vainly sued for damages, on the
ground that he had got into debt while striving to
live up to his position as the future husband of the
lady of the manor. The Sydney papers of the day
published the portraits of both suitors, and the
general impression among tailors and clothiers was
that the tie of the rejected man had killed his
chances.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant: —
The inquiry for a claimant to the honor of being the
oldest living inhabitant of Victoria has brought forth
Mrs. Jane Creswick, only daughter of Alexander Thom-
son, M.D., of Geelong, who on March 13, 1836, landed at
Gellibrand’s Point with her parents, she being then eight
years old. In 1833 the Thomsons reached Van Diemen’s
Land, and got a grant from Governor Arthur. Attracted
by the glowing accounts of the settlement by the Yarra,
the family crossed the Straits in the Caledonia (Captain
Symers). The settlement comprised a dozen huts built
with turf on a gently sloping hill near the Falls. There
was a public-house—the Royal Hotel —kept by John
Pascoe Fawkner —plenty of rum but no grub. In a mud
hut called the Mansion House lived Henry Batman,
brother of John. The white population numbered 50.
Later on Dr. Thomson removed to Geelong. He was its
first Mayor, and was one of five members elected to
represent Port Phillip in the first Parliament of N. S.
Wales. In 1849 Miss Thomson married Henry Creswick,
a merchant and pastoralist. He represented Emerald
Hill in the Vic. Legislative Assembly. The town and
district of Creswick were named after him. Mrs. Cres-
wick is now in her 80th year.
Aramac, the Queensland township which,
having no bridge, you have to swim to in flood-
time if you don’t take a flat-bottomed boat, has a
Kingston family which so far runs the following
shops:—Grocer’s and draper’s, saddler’s, sta-
tioner’s and news-agent’s, chemist’s, and butcher’s.
All these Kingstons belong to one family, and
there are other Kingstons coming along to oust
the Chinese baker, the local bank, and the
police sergeant.
Melbourne coroner Samuel Curtis Cand-
ler, who retired, the other day, aged 80, claimed
to be the oldest Victorian State servant. He was
appointed coroner for the districts lying between
the Loddon and Avoca rivers in 1853, and, with
the exception of about two years unsolicited leave
to walk about, has been sitting on the defunct
ever since. He was one of the civil servants
whom Governor Hothatn “fired ”in 1855; but he
was re-appointed to the Bourke district in ’57,
and “ sat ” there till he succeeded Coroner Youl in
the sedentary attitude for Melbourne City.
Amongst N.S.W. real-property notices of last
week is one belonging to old Sydney. The Union
Bank applies to bring under the Act 26f perches
at the intersection of Pitt and Hunter streets,
part of allotment 1, sec. 38, granted to Thomas
Marsden, who resided on the spot in the late
’twenties. One hundred years ago Captain
Nichols had the bit of ground. In 1814
he sold to Captain Richard Brooks, after-
wards of Denham Court, near Liverpool. He, it
is surmised, sold to Marsden, who was in the
wool business. Afterwards (in the late ’thirties)
Flower, Salting and Co. came, and with them
brought the Union Bank from the N.-E. corner of
Kin? and George streets. With Flower, Salting
and Co. was associated Mr. J. H. Challis, the
University benefactor, out of whose money the
Sydney University has just completed “Challis
House” in Martin Place.
INHUMAN, BUT TRUE.
BUSTED SPORT (with deep emotion): “ I’m a bad egg, boss, I know, but I’m dead broke, and ”
HEARTLESS CAPITALIST : “ And a bad egg is never so objectionable as when it’s broken. Pass
on, please."
G. W. Hawkes, who was more things in
S. Australia than any other man, died lately at
the age of 86. Adelaide is chockfull of philan-
thropic societies, and G. W. Hawkes was some-
thing or other in most of them. Sixty years ago
or thereabouts he had a brief but exciting
experience in Sydney; he was accountant in the
Bank of Australia when it closed its doors in
1843, with its safes full of property deeds, which
were later on disposed of by a tremendous lottery,
drawn at the City Theatre on New Year’s Day.
After drifting in and out of banks and commercial
houses, G. W. Hawkes became a police magis-
trate ; but he gave that up years ago.
The extent to which the anti-Australian
daily press will go in slandering any man who
dares to speak up for his native country is shown
by the yarn published in all the capitals last week
that Prime Minister Deakin monopolised the
telephone at his seaside place, Point Lonsdale,
and kept the line from public use for hours
at a time. A very little inquiry would have
shown that the yarn was a lie ; the official records
show that Deakin used the telephone line just
once in a whole month, and that he was rung up
only 15 times during the same period, and that no
conversation exceeded nine minutes. But as it
was only a matter of slandering a prominent Aus-
tralian, and there wasn’t a handy opportunity
just then to slander Australia itself, Sydney
Telegraph and the others of that gang rushed
the dirty little lie into print.
A very old identity of the Glebe, Mrs.
Janet Mary Korff, died last week at the age of
80 years. The house in Hereford-street wherein
she died is one of a number of iron structures,
amongst the oldest in the Glebe ; and there the
Korffs lived for over half a century. The de-
ceased lady’s husband was a familiar figure in
commercial Sydney ten years ago. His father,
Captain John Korff, was 65 years ago a ship-
builder at Miller’s Point. He built the first
ketch launched in Australia and the first steamers
running to Balmain. He discovered and named
Korff’s Harbor, now known as “ Coff’s.”
An old-time Melbourne bankruptcy has
at last been squared up. Twenty-five years ago,
Louis Spitzel, jeweller, filed the usual document,
and the Court refused him his certificate unless
he paid ss. in the £. The ss. didn’t transpire,
and Spitzel created remoteness between himself
and his old haunts. Four years later a Melbourne
man ran against him in Shanghai, where he
seemed to be prospering and in high favor. He
had the ear of big Chow officials, and shook them
cordially by the pigtail when he met them. The
China-Japan war came along, and Spitzel got hold
of army contracts and did well. Later he was
heard of running the blockade to Port Arthur
during the Russo-Jap. scrimmage, and finally the
cable said he had died, at Carlsbad, worth
£2,000,000. A Melbourne solicitor fished up the
old bankruptcy, and official assignee Densham
was sent to London to look into things. He
found that Spitzel had left a Park-lane house
worth £200,000, besides property in Carlsbad, and
big concessions and other valuables in China.
Then Densham broke it gently to Spitzel’s execu-
tors that the ex-jeweller was an uncertificated
bankrupt, and asked about that dividend. In the
end, he collected 20s. in the £, and 25 years’ inte-
rest at 6 per cent, and has now come home to find
the creditors, many of whom will be very hard to
find after all these years.
The compulsory service scheme of the
Deakin Government was prepared by Major
Legge, a brainy military man who used to be a
barrister and wrote a text book on law, and then
turned soldier and wrote military text books.
He’s always had a penchant for charging, judging
by his professions. ,
Willie Judkins, having returned from Fiji
like a midget refreshed, announces his intention
of downing the social evil in Melbourne. He says
that if he were invested with authority he would
put down the social evil in a fortnight (Applause.)
Judkins is a small, sallow, helpless sort of person
who has earned a reputation as a devil of a fellow
by jumping up and yelling desperately whenever
anything was being accomplished, but his egotism
is Alpine, and he really believes he has accom-
plished all the things he has howled at. The
social evil has been in existence since before the
time of the first Rameses, and there were Jud-
kinses when the pyramids were being built, but
the evil survives, and at present is about the most
robust evil on earth. Willie’s undertaking to
abolish it in a fortnight sounds like the threat of
a mosquito to upset Popocatapetl, best two out of
three, strangle-hold barred.
About an aquatic hero :
The late Ned Hanlan was probably a wonderful sculler
when he beat Trickett on the Thames, making a some-
what cruel exhibition of the long 1 , Corn-
stalk. At any rate he discovered to the world the
possibilities of a then comparatively new invention—the
sliding seat. Boyd, an English sculler of the period,
appeared to slide even more easily than the Canadian,
but he failed to get the same amount of devil into his
stroke. It is a fair thing to credit Hanlan with wonderful
skill and remarkable pulling power in his best days.
Nevertheless he was, at 26, an old young man at the
game. He had started as a boy to row himself to and
from school every day, and when he met Beach, the
blacksmith, who was 35 when he first stepped into a racing
boat, the big. ’un beat him for youthful vigor. Or,
perhaps, a seemingl3 r slight attack, of typhoid in the
meantime had weakened the vitality of the amazing
Hanlan who beat Trickett. The one certain thing about
the 11-stone Canadian was his original appearance of
sup riority to all rivals. James Renforth had been
accepted as a boss champion of the fixed-seat scullers,
but Renforth, who died in his boat of heart disease, was a
very bvgone hero when Hanlan came along and extin-
guished the last rays of poor old England’s setting sun.
Richard Green, who won a £2O sculling
handicap at Newcastle (N.S.W.) recently, comes
from an old aquatic family. Grandfather Dick
Green, still in good health (though 74 years old),
was the first Australian sculling champion ; while
father Dick follows the less laborious pastime of
sailing. Young Green raises hopes that there
may be another champion in the family.
“ J.A.C.” writes :
Francesco Sceusa, revolutionary and exile, sailed for
Italy last Saturday. Some years ago The Bulletin de-
clared him to be “the only avowed Socialist in the Public
Service of New South Wales.” He was born at Trapani,
Sicily, in 1852. In October, 1877, he was expelled from
his native country as a “ dangerous character a
dangerous person who never injured but one man, whose
name is Sceusa. He then travelled Asia, and, finally,
arrived in Sydney in December, 1878. Having taken a
degree as architect and civil engineer at the University
of Naples, he obtained an appointment as draughts-
man in N.S.W. Lands Office. His advanced notions
weren’t grateful to the ruling powers, and many
unsuccessful attempts were made to get rid of him. On
one occasion the late Dr. Manning looked at his tongue
and felt his Dulse, reported him dangerously ill, and re-
commended his immediate retirement. But Sceusa was
not taking anything lying down, and threats of exposure
in the public press stopped thpse endeavors. When it
was proposed that Joey Carruthers should stand as a
candidate for the Federal Convention, a requisition to
that effect was drawn up in the Lands Office. Every-
body but Sceusa signed it. He said, “ I cannot do so
while Mr. Carruthers is head of my department.” This
did not tend to increase his popularity ; but it is to
Carruthers’ credit that, when some worm came to
him with the tale, he said, “ Sceusa has acted perfectly
within his rights.” It was Sceusa who first obtained
the recognition of Australia as an individual nation.
He was Australian delegate to the International Socialist
and Trades Union Congress, held at Zurich (Switzerland),
in 1893, and he insisted on Australia having a separate
vote. The president, a Belgian, objected to this, and in
consequence Sydney papersliad the chance to publish this
cablegram :—“ Sceusa, the Australian delegate at the
Zurich Congress, created an uproar by shouting to the
president (a Belgian), who had refused to let him speak
on the Eight-hour Question, ‘ Australia is worth ten
Belgiums’l” Sceusa was expelled the meeting, but was
afterwards recalled, and carried his point. There was no
Stinking Fish in the tail-pocket of Francesco and
he was a better Australian by 1000 miles th" - many an
importer born in this country. For son'.. ears the
Sicilian exile has been an invalid, and his doctor ordered
him back to his native island. Whether he is still officially
an outlaw in Italy or not doesn’t seem certain, but, if he
is, he will talk firmly to the authorities, and probably get
the matter cleared up. His numerous friends presented
him with an address and a purse of sovereigns on leaving,
and there were real sovereigns in the purse—not 7s. 6d.
n silver.
The will of George M'Culloch, one of the
original proprietors of the Broken Hill mine,
has been proved at £375,000 net. Excepting some
five small legacies, the whole is left to his widow.
Should she die without a will, the whole goes to
her son, and should he die intestate the estate
goes to the nation for charitable and educational
purposes. But surely it would be a very careless
and untidy family in which both mother and son
forgot to make a will ?
The Bulletin’s oldest soldier remembers
things:—
I remember “ Dear Prince ” by courtesy, when I made a
short stay at aplace called Cawnpore, about the New Year,
’57. There were races, and the Raja of Bithoor, the “ Dear
Prince ”in question, was one of the stewards. Old General
Wheeler, who commanded the brigade, was especially
hand-in-glove with the Raja, who used to give picnics at
his old fort some 15 miles up the river, lend his elephants,
and make himself agreeable in other ways, in spite of the
fact that he had a grievance re the stoppage of a pension
that had been paid to his adopted father. A few months
later the native brigade in the station was in open
mutiny, so Wheeler collected the Europeans and
posted them round the hospital, where there were
a number of sick men left behind by drafts
marching up country. He would have liked to occupy
the arsenal, a mile or two away, a strong and defensible
place, with a good well of water, but he was afraid to
risk moving the sick ; so he gave the arsenal into the
charge of his friend, the “ Prince,” who, having plenty
of armed retainers, promised to take great care of it. He
did. As soon as Wheeler was established in the entrench-
ment he had thrown up round the hospital, fire was
opened from a battery of 24-pounders, taken out of the
arsenal. There was no water to be had in the entrench-
ment, and the inevitable result followed. Wheeler was
forced to come to terms. It was agreed that the women
should be left in the “ Dear Prince’s ” charge, and the
men sent down the river in boats. (The women, made
slaves, were forced to grind corn in hand-mills till it was
found that the Europeans were everywhere recovering
the upper hand; then, in mingled rage and terror,
they were all killed.) Next, the men were taken to
the landing-place, put into boats, without crews, oars, or
sails, and fired on from a perpendicular bank. Some of
the bolder managed to cut their boats adrift, and went
down the Ganges with the current. Some were mur-
dered by villagers on the banks, some were drowned, but
a good many escaped. And we may be very sure of one
thing ; not one of those who got out of that trap with
their lives would ever be caught again putting his trust
in a Prince with a brown skin. That Raja, who was given
charge of the Cawnpore arsenal, has since become better
known as “ The Nana Sahib.”
NASH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a man who sat upon
A torpid Melbourne tram ;
He looked as if all hope had gone—
He breathed a feeble “ D—n ! ”
He turned the paper inside out,
He read it through and through—
Then muttered, like a soul in doubt,
“ What did the Canon do ? ”
He searched thro’ columns dull and long,
He read “ A Layman’s ” views,
But found no details of the wrong
Which agitates the pews.
He tried to guess what scandal dread
The Bishop’s English hid,
And whispered, as he held his head,
“ I wonder what Nash did ? ”
The tram rushed on like any snail,
The man stared straight before ;
His countenance was deadly pale,
A dreadful smile he wore.
The office drifted gently by
AVherein he earned his cash ;
He merely murmured with a sigh
“ Goo’ Lord ! what’s wrong with Nash ? ”
n.s.w.
KODAK.


;• ? ■ 4 *7;
pi
i
1 : .
? • '
A. , : A' Aa . .
1 </ f o ‘
|ff§ -v
i
■ ■wk ; ’ j t-'
I
tigp
;? \ ' ■. ■
• gg£ - '
Yl
H I
■
, kk i <■' *3 "7
■
I«
9K
'
<c '" ' 5 . ' ‘ V : > • ' , -
k - v
■ si,
■
Hfl
g . / . 7;
■ '* * ■
. *
H
Ykk
»/
..:t
t
■ ■ i
ikW
Jm
' 4
) -£?-****,' ..
Jjfl
■. .
r ~
. -wagutM
aw % ‘
■ / y
V
■*■ ■
. '
1 J.vApink.%
C
graf: -fK. /: %
W? < ! i M
the South pole at last!
f
“Well, I’m
99


Furniture Upholstery
ALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
pi*
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
132 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will brace up the
nerves, banish sick headaches, prevent despond-
ency, and invigorate the whole system. Much
easier to take than pills.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
s:
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
AfcSO at Melbourne. _
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Age (8/l/’08): —
Farmers in the Bungaree district are complaining' of
the scarcity of harvest hands, almost every farmer work-
ing short-handed. The wage paid to harvesters is about
4s. per day.
Four whole shillings for about 16 hours’ work !
Truly, the demands of the workers in the “ great
natural industries” are becoming outrageous!
Actually, some men prefer to take 10s. or 12s. a
day in the Queensland sugar-fields when they
might get 4s. on a farm down south for at least a
month in the year.
TINTED APPARITIONS.
Looking at things all round, it is just as well that ser-
vants should not be unduly influenced in favor of immi-
gration, and then there will not be the disappointment
there often is when the attractions are too highly
colored.— DAILY TELEGRAPH.
L.B. FROM M. : “ The boot is on the other foot.
Granny. It is the emigrant who is often
too highly colored .”
An apparently effective, if dishonest,
method of criticism is to invest a proposal with
asinine features that it hasn’t got, and then cackle
discordantly. Sydney Telegraph’s “ military
representative,” discussing the universal service
scheme, chooses to presume that all the young
men would be called out for training at the same
time, and discovers that, consequently, the
telegraph and postal department, for one, would be
paralysed. But who, outside the lunatic asylums
and Sydney Telegraph office, which is much
the same thing sometimes, imagines or affects to
imagine that all the troops will be called out for
training at once, when the obviously simple
plan will be to spread the training over the
greater part of the year, dealing with successive
drafts ? And even in the impossible event of all
the men liable for training being called out
simultaneously, how would the temporary with-
drawal of the youths between 18 and 21 lead to
the utter and complete shutting up of the postal
show ? They only represent a fraction of the staff.
Since the Commonwealth took over the
weather, North Queensland has had 40m. of rain
and N. S. Wales hardly any. Secesh ! Revo-
lush !! Wade in !! !
The complicated juggle of N.S.W. Cabinet
is about complete. Mines and Agriculture, at
present bunched together, will be dragged apart,
and the Department will be known as Agriculture.
Mines are to be tacked on to somewhere, probably
the Chief Secretary’s office, which Department
will then want a new name. Mines and
All Sorts might do—or else Wild Cats and
Sundries. Perry, who was chosen to rule
over Mines and Agriculture because he knew
about Mines, sticks to the Agricultural Depart-
ment because he doesn’t know much about Agri-
culture The Mines staff clears out of the big
Lands building, and the Agricultural crowd goes
in. Where the Mines men go to isn t known. Alto-
gether, it seems a great upheaval with no results.
About the most cheerful thing The Bul-
letin has heard from Queensland for a long time
is the speech of Labor candidate Barber, at
Bundaberg :
Thousrh Mr. Kidston’s and the Labor parties were
appealing to the electors on their respective programmes
they had a common interest in the fight, in so far that
they were fighting for the vindication of democratic
Government. The Kidston fight was their fight, and
their fight was Kidston’s on this matter.
A general recognition of that fact among Queens-
land democrats would ensure an overwhelming
route of the Philpites; but alas ! the Radical
camp is in many places divided on some absurd
triviality, and thus the path is made smooth for
the revival of Philp finance and King Govern-
ment.
The “ Immigration League of Australia,
if it can be judged by the language of a certain
Oakley, one of its vice-presidents, is a very useless
object nowadays. Oakley, the other day, put his
official signature as vice-president to a letter pub-
lished in Sydney Telegraph, in which letter he
clamored for privately-owned railways as the sort
of thing to give Australia a nice, big, fat start. in
Australia we have built our railways too extra-
vagantly,” shouted Oakley, and he urged this
country to follow the bright example of the
United States—where the private enterprise rail-
ways cost, on an average, £3200 a mile more than
the State lines of Australia. The Immigration
League should sell Oakley, and spend the pro-
ceeds on the purchase of a vice-president who is
at least threatened with information.
A curious list drifts round Federal Parlia-
ment House. It purports to show the names of
two members, both Tories, who got £2OOO apiece
for changing their views about the necessity tor
taxing the Standard Oil Trust’s kerosene; of a
third Tory who was bought by being put into a
nice corpulent spec., and of a fourth Tory who
took the price of the betrayal of his country in a
different form, but took it all the same. Certainly,
a person who was openly alleged to be the emissary
of Standard Oil was lobbying most industriously,
and there was a sudden and amazing falling away
among those who wanted to reserve the Aus-
tralian market for the British co.’s oil, and the
Pour, regarding whom suspicion now stinks to
Heaven,'are said to have not only changed their
own views, but to have toiled enthusiastically to
make converts to the doctrine of Preetrade for the
Monopoly’s oil.
For 15 years or thereabouts Alfred Cowley
represented the sugar-growing district of the
Herbert, in North Queensland, and fought hard
and often for the nigger. Then, at last election,
Lennon, a Laborite and Kidston sympathiser^
beat him by a tew. inis time, instead
of running for Herbert, he is put up
for Burrum—as a Philpite, of course.
It seems that the Philpites in the Her-
bert looked round, and couldn’t trace
more than a dozen culverts and things
that Cowley had got for them, and they
wanted to know what was the having
a Philp supporter who couldn’t loot the
Treasury. So Cowley was passed out. It all
crives a beautiful idea of the morals of the people
who vote for Philp.
There id a classic impudence in the
suggestion of the wooden Wade
I will make a sporting offer, if the Federal Government
will act upon the selection, to make known in definite
terms, at very short notice, what site the people of New
South’ Wales are determined upon. As a test of his desire
to settle this question finally, I would like a promise
beforehand that the Federal Government would abide by
the selection.
Which calmly presumes that it is N.S.W., and
not Australia, which is to choose the Federal
capital site ! And except as to the influence of
its representatives in the Federal Legislature,
N.S.W. has no more claim to choose Australia’s
capital than has Norfolk Island.
The loud laugh of Jimmy Hogue and some
of his colleagues at the renunciation of “ commun-
ism ” by the wheelers at aWest Wallsend (N.S.W.)
colliery betokens the empty head. The men,
who had been paid a lump sum and left to
divide the amount among themselves, applied
to be paid individually, and over that incident
Ministerial laughter was let go. But at the close
of last session those very Ministers carried through
N.S.W. Parliament a measure which lands
Ministers in the “communism” from .which the
wheelers seek to scramble. Ministers were pre-
viously paid individual salaries, supposed to be
in proportion to their several duties and responsi-
bilities, but Premier Wade and his Ministry ap-
plied to Parliament to throw a lump sum to the
lot and let them divide it among themselves, as if
they were a lot of Early Christians holding goods
in common.
When the Wimmen’s League met the other
week at Janet Mrs. Clarke’s grandiose hennery,
in Melbourne, the chief light said she was quite
sure they needn’t trouble about mixed marriages
of brown Hindu man and white Australian
woman, because Chunder Ram was much too
proud and superior a person to even dream of
giving his name to mere white trash. And the
“Heah, heahs !” had scarcely subsided on the
premises of Janet Woman before Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.) turned out in great style to witness the
wedding of a local Chunder Ram of considerable
local tonnage to a local girl named Paget—no less.
Perhaps she wasn’t ordinary white trash, though :
Chunder Ram may have remembered that the
Pagets have been barons and things of that sort
since 1552, and decided to sink his pride in his
boot.
Right at the front of his rigmarole, the
gnorant person who has been writing to oy ney
Telegraph about the proposed Conscnp
army ” -puts the statement that under the
British flag there never has been compulsion as
regards military training” since feudal days.
Well, here are a few cases to go on with :
(1) Service in the militia of the West
Indies was compulsory. (2) The
militia in the original 13 States
of the U.S., when they were
British colonies, was compelled
to serve. (3) Service in the
Channel Islands militia is
compulsory. (4) During the
Crimean War the militia
in many counties was re-
cruited by ballot, and those
who were drawn had
either to serve or pur-
chase substitutes in
the old French
conscript way.
(5) Natal has
now a com-
pulsory
Militia
TEMPORARY EMBARRASSMENT.
UNCLE SAM: “John! John! For the Lord's
sake, John, have you any spare cash?”
service, (o) Canadian law makes service
compulsory between the ages of 18 and 60.
And even if there never had been one case,
it wouldn’t make a bit of difference to Aus-
tralia. There never has been an Australia with
an Asiatic horde waiting at its back door before
this, and new conditions make new precedents.
Philp, of Queensland, has just gazetted
about 300 new Js.P.— including his party’s elec-
tioneering agent. They ought to give Philp a
considerable lift in the matter of the postal vote.
Last election the scandal was bad enough ; this
time it is expected to be 300 Js.P. worse.
Robert Philp has made an announcement.
In the Queensland electoral campaign, he says,
the real dividing line between him and William
Kidston is that Kidston seeks to extend the
Wages Board principle to agricultural and pastoral
employees, while Philp stands like a rock for
unlimited sweating on farms. The great primary
industries, says Philp, will be ruined if they have to
pay decent wages. Philp goes the hog, the whole
hog, the permanent hog, and nothing but the hog
for low wages in agriculture. Kidston ought to be
well pleased with the definition. According to
Philp’s own statement, the fight turns on the fact
that Kidston wants the agricultural worker to be
a man, while Philp is willing that he should be
something very like a beast. It would make a
good line for an election placard : “Vote for the
Man Party. Vote against the Beast Party.”
The water trouble has fallen in a good-
sized heap on N.S.W. Sydney is threatened with
scarcity. Lithgow, across the Blue Mountains,
on the road to the State Grumblers’ proposed
Federal capital at Lyndhurst, reported last week
that it had only a very few days’ supply left.
Down south, Helensburgh, Wollongong, and
Nowra, on the road to Premier Wade’s proposed
Federal capital at Canberra, are parching. The
Queanbeyan river, near Wade’s proposed Can-
berra capital, has stopped running. Whether the
Cotter river, right alongside Wade’s proposed
Canberra capital, is dried up or not, no one seems
to know; that river is hard to find on the
map. But the Snowy, fed by the unfailing snows
of Kosciusko and its sister mountains, keeps going
strong, and advertises its banks all the time as the
ideal site for the capital of all Australia.
Now and again Bent seems to be almost
desirous of following in the footsteps of Carruthers
and Wade, in being nasty to the Commonwealth.
Recently, the Australian Government wisely de-
cided to limit the weight of bags of wheat to
2001 b. This end will be secured by prohibiting
the importation, after March next, of bags that
hold more than that quantity. Bent and Chap-
man had one or two interviews over the matter,
in one of which Bent looked rather foolish. As a
result, the bulky man has now decided to allow
bags weighing 2401 b. to be dealt with. Bent is
chucking in the extra 401 b. just to annoy Chap-
man. But the Commonwealth has the thick end
of the stick. It can not only block the importa-
tion of the 2401 b. bags, but it can stop their
exportation. So there is a loud squeal from the
State Frights crowd in Victoria, but this is counter-
balanced by the fact that the lumpers will sweat
and curse less, and die less frequently of strained
hearts.
Brisbane Courier has been throwing its
usual dead-cat at the country which is large-
hearted and soft-headed enough to let it live.
The tide of immigration is turning against
Canada, the Courier remarks, but what good is
that to Australia ! The scallawag and ne’er-do-
well are welcomed, “ while English tradesmen
may be compelled to pass a severe examination in
Swedish.” In fact, the scallawag “finds easier
admission than honest tradesmen and skilled farm
workers.” The foul Courier doesn’t mention
when one honest white tradesman or one skilled
white farm worker found the door slammed in his
face ; it can’t cite one case in which an English
tradesman was “ compelled to pass a severe exami-
nation in Swedish ” —in fact, the Courier can’t
cite one case in which its honest English trades-
man was compelled to pass an examination,
severe or otherwise, in anything. It simply has a
dead-cat on its premises, and shies it at Australia
—the big-hearted, soft-headed country that feeds
the beast and won’t hit back.
In Perth, some ribald interviewing re-
porter, who didn’t know that Gr. Beid was ever to
be taken seriously, asked him was the rumor
that l.e had come over to toss Bigjohn Forrest
for the High Commissionership, true. “Urgh,”
drawled Bignotes, “ that is
one of the impertinences
that we public men have to
put up with.”
Will these wrongs to the suffering Ma
State never cease? Here is R. B. Hungerfqrd, of
Sydney, successfully tendering for 20 miles of
telephone cable to be used in Victoria. 1 wenty
miles of Sydney’s first-class, paper-insulated, lead-
covered cable to be sent over to the accursed
Cabbage Garden for the sole convenience and ad-
vantage of the rascally Victorian wolves. A
thing like that never happened before Federation
arrived, with its inter-State freetrade—and yet
Premier Wade does nothing !
The Victorian Railway Commissioners
have apparently entered for the mean-man com-
petition. Since the arrival of Tait from the land
of snow and inferior maple sugar, the Commis-
sioners have been guilty of many acts of meanness.
The compensation paid to the widow and children
of the late Joseph Cherry, a driver who lqst his
life through sticking to his engine at a crisis on
one of the Commissioners’ rickety lines, beats
the band for sheer paltriness. The sum
awarded was £375, but as Cherry had been pru-
dent enough in his lifetime to insure himself for
£2OO at death, the Commissioners deducted that
amount from the compensation allowance. Thus
the sum total of their heaving generosity amounted
to £175.
THE WRONGS OF ART.
An authentic picture by Vandyck, the famous Flemish
painter—a portrait of himself—was recently sold for 4d.
“By Jingo , eh! Fourpence for a picture like
that! ”
“ Well, there are worse things than that. Why,
I sold a little black-and-white to-day—a thing
of my own, mind you —and only got 15 bob."
Already, with Philp back, they begin to
suck, suck, suck ! “The system of rebate on coal
taken by oversea ships is to be resumed.” “The
demurrage charge on coal waggons is to be
abolished.” “The charge for haulage of coal put
through the shoots is to be reduced.” A while
ago the Queensland coal-mine owners attacked
the railways, and said the shortage of trucks was
disgraceful. The railways inquired and found
that the owners were using trucks for storage
purposes to such a scandalous extent that each
truck averaged only one trip a week (22 miles each
way) ! Kidston and Kerr decided that the rolling
stock was reasonable if it was used reasonably,
and to get it used reasonably they fixed a small
demurrage charge —a rent for the use of the>ruck
after the first 24 hours. Now Philp arrives, the
owners whisper into his ear, and off gopsKxms most
justifiable charge. Soon there will be a cry for
more trucks—then more loans —more bust.
THE VISITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He slips around creation wide,
On glorious errand bent;
’Tis his to bless and his to curse,
And raise our wonderment;
And then to write to Britain’s Isle :
“ I wandered many a weary mile ;
I came ; I saw ; and All was Vile !
“ I spent a night in Sydney once,
And strolled about the Quay ;
I wandered Melbourne up and down
Ah hour of two or three ;
t passed a day on Egypt’s shore,
Atld thirty minutes in Lahore,
And f und the Punjaubi a bore.”
The p oblems of his land afar
Afe past his little wit;
Although, ’twould seem to thinking folk,
A m in of sense and grit
Might find a task for brain and pen,
Ffonl Britain’s festering slum and den
In lifting Things to live like Men.
but Britain's traveler knows full well
That task is grim and hard ;
’Tis easier far to trip around
And drop a casual card ;
To tilt at Windmills o’er the foam,
To leave at Home the Wrongs of Home,
And cheaply cure the Wrongs that roam.
No Honor in his Fatherland
The Prophet hath, ’tis true ;
But yet, it seems, he reaps abroad
A little more than due ;
But then, with gratitude so keen
He takes a noble stand, I ween,
And shows us what we might have been.
And bit by bit from oversea
The tidings of him come —
How noisily in London town
He beats his London drum ;
And how he tells, his wand’rings o’er,
“ I spat on far Australia’s shore ;
1 blew my nose in Mirzapore ! ”
queenslaSd.
FURSESS BORN.
THE COMPROMISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The London Times says that without the mother
country’s protection Australia cannot hope to exclude
the Japanese, and declares that in the matter of Asiatic
immigration the Imperial Government is not without
means of insisting upon “ a reasonable compromise.”
We take precautions to retain
The clean-skin, European strain.
Alas ! Imperial politics
Demand a few decisive licks
Of tar brush, and two almond eyes—
A reasonable compromise.
The Commonwealth’s beloved heir
Must have a Chow pigtail, and wear
A Jap’s flat nose, a coolie’s skin,
With all the hues of Asia in—
A thing clean races may dispise,
A drab, disgusting compromise 1
vie.
S.S.


our expense.
We
want you to try
thte Briton at our expense.
We know Typewriters, and we know that
the Briton gives the same service and satisfaction
as any other standard machine, and does it at less
than one-half their cost.
But it is not enough for us to know it—we want you
to share our knowledge. We want to convince you that the
Briton
is the machine for you to use. We are so sure that the
machine itself will do all the talking necessary that we are willing
to pay all expenses connected with your trial of it.
Upon receipt of your request we ship you a machine from
stock in your own State, all charges prepaid. You try it for 10
days, and if it does not come up to your expectations in all respects,
you simply re-ship to us, and we pay all charges.
This is the way we sell Britons; it is a fair, honest way, and
'■?
sk
you buy the machine in the simplest,
most direct manner, absolutely on
its merits. If you think it satis-
factory after the trial
(and you will) you pay us
£l2/10/-
You
cannot disregard an offer as fair as this.
Southern Sales, Limited,
284 George Street, Sydney (Box 1700).
18 Queen Street, Melbourne.
7 Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.
• •
• •
WEAR
Buckley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Three
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. 10 DC
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
15/3
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
or
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14/6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
WRITE FOR OUR BOOT CATALOGUE (ILLUSTRATED).
■MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
‘ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
Nothing more delightful can be imagined during Summer evenings than
lounging dimng, or sleeping upon a Hat roof in full enjoyment of fresh air
beneath the stars.
OUR REINFORCED MALTHOID makes an ideal roof, and may be
seen upon the Civic Club, Challis House, and the New Builders’ Exchange.
We court correspondence on the subject.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
(jLriC
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
G. E. CRANE & SONS. JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE FINEST SHAVING IMPLEMENT IN THE WORLD.
THE FAMOUS . . .
MAB
RAZOR
(Made in England).
Dwarf Size 4/6, Medium Size 4/6, Large Size 5/6 each.
The Special Amalgam of Steel renders Imitation impossible.
Read the following Testimonial—
-292-298 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Dear Sirs,—lt gives me great pleasure to certify to the excellent qualities of the MAB Razor.
I purchased one nearly three years ago, during which time I have been using it continuously
without being ground or set, and can safely say that it makes shaving a pleasure.
Yours truly, (Signed) W. P SINCLAIR.
If not obtainable from your local store send Postal Note to —
W. T. PATER & CO.,
Sole Australasian
Agents,
362 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
and 374 GEORGE STREET,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY.
i
tes
(fi)
The Plum has a Shaving Edge
IT has a perfect shaving- edge, and keeps it if you
_ look after it. You will get comfortable shav-
ing all the year round with a PLUM
PRICE 10 6,
Post Free to any
part of the World.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
If You Have occasion to Dictate
Letters or Other Matter,
I You cannot afford to be without our Booklet
entitled ** From Brain to Type.**
Author Brisbane, the famous Editorial Writer
for the “New York Evening Journal,” says :
“On behalf of all men living and to come
that must write in a hurry, I thank Mr. Edison
for the wonderful machine that he has given
to the world in the Business Phonograph.”
This remarkable invention of Mr.
Edison’s enables you to dictate
your correspondence just when you
want to without wasting the time of
a shorthand writer.
No matter how busy you may be,
fill in and mail us this coupon now:—
National Phonograph Go. of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. “ B,” 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Please post me your booklet “From Brain to
Type.”
M
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. “B,” 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Edison Primary Batteries
are absolutely the cheapest form of electrical energy for
stationary and portable gas engines, slot machines, fan
motors, railway and time signals, phonographs, sewing
machines, X-ray outfits, electro-medical use, telephone,
fire and burglar alarm systems, and all other classes of
work. •
The special features of the Edison Batteries have won
for them the commendation of all scientists and practical
men who have written on the subject.
Ask us to send you our special booklet on “Edison
Primary Batteries.” It should be in the hands of every
person interested in electricity.
Edison Manufacturing Co.,
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd. (Selling Agents),
Dept. “ B,” 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
mm


“ A short life, hut a merry life ” are words
well-adapted to describe the existence of the
celebrated 1900 Vintage of “Charles Heidsieck ”
Champagne. First opened in Australia in 1904,
it showed wonderful promise, and since then has
grown rapidly into public favor, being second to
no wine for delicacy in flavor and bouquet. We
learn from the Australasian agents—Messrs Swift
and Company, of 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney—
that this Vintage is nearly expended, a purchase
of many thousand cases at Rheims for the London
market leaving barely a year’s supply for ours.
This Messrs. Swift and Company at once secured,
and it is now being shipped out. The 1904 wines
that are to follow are of good promise, and will be
arriving by the end of this year.*
0
c
\
i
<?
The *
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
Wholesale
for Australia—
„ Hogg, Robinson
& Co., Propty.,Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
Keats sings with keen insight that “ Beauty is
Truth,” as indeed it is. Women are coining daiW to
recognise their natural right to good looks and woiConie
any natural means to that end. Hence tbc beauty
specialist is an essential to the modern won»n —just as
are the dressmaker and milliner. Mile. Jtubinstein, of
Valaze fame, is now in Vienna, writes with
enthusiasm of the beauty of the women. “ They
have immensely improved since I "'as last in Vienna,”
writes Mile., “and wholly' because modern beauty
culture has enabled them to become so. In Vienna here
the greatest scientists are devoting their lives to discover-
ing new beauty preparations.” Mile. Rubinstein didn’t
stop at admiration though. She promptly secured the
Australian rights of the most popular toilet articles in
use in the Viennese Beauty Salons, and has sent them out
here. “Valaze,” she writes, “cannot be bettered, but
my 7 new uossessions will add even to its renown. Amongst
the articles are Valaze Lip Lustre, a noble Rouge, a
Flesh Producer and Reducer, several Eye Beautifiers—
Oh, but ask Mile. Lola Rubinstein at 158 Pitt Street,
Sydney, or Ceska Rubinstein at 274 Collins Street,
Melbourne, to show you these.” [1
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE
FACILE PRINCE PS
99
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 14, 1908,
My Dear Arint,—
This is the season of the Picnic Race meeting.
Tiranna occurred on Thursday and Friday last,
and Bong Bong is the event of the current week.
The Bong Bong meeting constitutes a gallant
attempt on the part of our Very Best to emulate
the Point-to-Point and Hunt Club meetings of the
Cold Land. Whatever Australia has of “county
society” turns up at Tiranna and Bong Bong,
doggedly determined to do the thing m
proper style. The female dressing is of
a Randwickian standard. The youthful sporting
male, when he isn’t engaged frenziedly urging an
astounded racehorse around a track which ought
to be describable as a sward (but isn’t), hands tea
and sandwiches to his sisters and other people’s
sisters, the while he snares something more
stimulating for himself. -Dust, grasshoppers, and
a species of counter lunch, which is absorbed in
beetle-harboring bush-houses, are the main
features of the smart up-country meeting.
Of the three features in question the
one which most outstands is the Dust.
It pervades everything. You drive to the
course in a hurricane of it, yon eat it during your
lunch and quaff whole ounces avoirdupois in each
cup of tea. The different races resemble so many
Westralian willy-willies, and you take the home-
ward trail finally with a solid pillar of it fore and
aft. This Dust it is (according to the cognoscenti)
which induces the famous Picnic Race-meeting
Thirst—admittedly one of the most complete,
gorgeous, jag-compelling thirsts extant.
Tetrazzini’s portraits are smiling out of the
leading English papers. A fat, good-humored,
double-chinned lady, very like a cross between a
Jewess and a Maoriland native. Seems as if you
can’t be a singer of the first magnitude without
possessing a figure of outside-size globularity.
Professional singers have splendid digestions,
and most persons of that kind get fat.
Some doctors recommend singing exercises
to dyspeptics. The “ cure ”is said to work mar-
vellously. I know one indigestion-smitten damsel
with a voice like a curlew, only several notes
higher than that of the long-legged bird that flew
about Tennyson’s Locksley Hall. She has an
hour’s lesson every morning. After a month of
curiewing her complexion has changed from
kippered herring tinge to a nice pink and
brown, and her bones are no longer
published. But the cottages on either side
of hers have “ to let ” notices on their glass, and
the landlord has assumed a very unhealthy ap-
pearance.
Talking of gloomy subjects, such as the fore-
going : In a D.T. advt. column of Jan. 4 I found
this :
"M’EURALGIA OF THE TONGUE.—Can anyone
4-’ suggest relief to lady suffering for years ? Best
doctors have failed. Most grateful. L.M.0.,
Post-office, Granville.
I don’t think it is a joke. One who has chronic
neuralgia would as soon jest about the Seraphim
or the solar parallax. But it is cold comfort for
L.M.O. to read in the Lancet, the great English
medical organ, that a famous physician said,
before a meeting of the British Medical
Association, that “in two thousand years we
are no further advanced in our knowledge of
dyspepsia or neuralgia.” I know of but one chronic
case that was cured. The sufferer gave up tea
and coffee, and took to brown cod-liver oil, raw
sweetbreads and milk. She lapped milk till she
was ashamed to look a calf in the face or meet a
cow in a lonely paddock. Other chronic cases
have cured themselves with a revolver shot.
There is only one day in the year on which
local concert people are absolutely sure of a
crowded house. Visitors, according to their
merit or advertising, do well or ill, but local
people are pushed out of the running except on
Good Friday. And this is the day on which the
local council rushes up the rent of the Town Hall
to the region of £6o—having placed it by tender.
The result is a minimum of profit to the organisers
of the concert and starvation fees to the artists
who assist.
From a Sydney morning daily :
IJROM my prison I send best wishes for very happy
■ N. Y. No 14.
Poor No. 14 ! One may imagine his pals and
palliasses drinking " to the friend who is " away.’ ”
When the mail left London, our late visitor,
Miss Marion Grey, some time of the Julius
Knight co., had been engaged by Mr. Forbes
Robertson to play Bazilide in “For the Crown,”
Emilia in “Othello,” the Queen in “Hamlet,”
and Johanna Goodlake in “Mice and Men.”
Miss Grey sends a rather envious benediction to
our “ always golden weather.” She is sitting by
a fire, while “the fog without befogs, and the
drizzle never ceases from drizzling.”
Liliuokalani, formerly Queen of the Hawaiian
Islands, recently got matrimonially engaged to
Prince Pale Salmon, of Tahiti. Still more
recently the projected alliance was terminated, to
use the phraseology usual amongst royalties. Per-
haps other royalties were gossiping. Anyhow,
the Prince Pale Salmon, his Othello-like cheek
flushing, took up his pen and wrote to the Ameri-
can press a dignified explanation, showing forth
the arrangement whereby he accepted £352 to
release the ex-Queen from her engagement to
marry him.
Already the new season’3 hats are in the ware-
houses. Terry velvet has been revived for
millinery, and dyed tussore is a favorite. Long
and short ostrich feathers are used, most of them
dyed in dark colors, or several colors, on one stalk.
Swan’s plumage and white rooster-tail feathers
will be with us at coming hat-parades. Huge
bows are still on the broad-rimmed hats. Sailor
shapes, covered with old-fashioned figured cre-
tonnes, will be in thousands. Curled quills will
share popularity with straight ones, and if you
have a lot of money, and like such feathery gear,
you’ll wear cassowary feathers and marabout.
Talking of chiffony concerns: The Ola Hum-
phrey motor veil is on the Sydney market, at a
George-street milliner’s upstairs lair. It has
been “carried out” in brown, very fine crtipe de
chine, and must have been cut from a piece
6ft. Bin. wide. It consists of the circular crown
with a frill around it, and an oval piece, also
frilled, that falls over the face nearly to the waist,
and two wings at the back that don’t stay at the
back. They are brought to the front and tied
over the front curtain.
News from the Bull Country tells that Mrs. T.
A. Coghlan has broken down from nervous pros-
tration. No wonder ! The numerous and varied
engagements she has had to fulfil, and the enter-
tainments she has had to give and receive, must
have made her feel like a kaleidoscope or a whirl-
wind.
Two ancient Australian names were hyphened
on New Year’s Day at the Cathedral, Newcastle —
Cecil, elder son of the late George Wickham, of
Parramatta, and Bertha, youngest daughter of
the late William Goodsir, of Newcastle. The
Wickhams have been in Parramatta since time
immemorial, and one David Goodsir was in charge
of the coastguard station at Botany Heads three
quarters of a century ago.
At St. Helen’s Church, St. Quintin’s Avenue,
London, on November 14, Miss Edith Ruby May
Murdoch, eldest daughter of Billy Murdoch, the
old-time demon cricketer, and granddaughter of
millionaire miner, J. B. Watson, of Bendigo, was
wedded to William Charles Thomas, only son of
Mr. T. C. Thomas, of St. Helen’s Gardens,
North Kensington, London. Amongst the guests
was Mrs. McEacharn, the bride’s aunt on the
mother’s side.
You never know who your ne’ghbor really is.
Over at Mosman, across the Harbor, there is the
great-great-grandson of Archibald VI., chief of all
the McDonalds who stuck to “ Prince Charlie,”
and had a bad time with that scapegrace at
Culloden. The great-grandson was Alovsius
McDonald, who, after 30 odd years spent in the
Bank of N.S.W., died at Wellington (M.L.) the
other day. Aloysius—the family, though Scotch, is
devoutly R.C. —held numerous top-rung billets in
his affluent bank’s service, and for many years
kept a genial eye on the overdraft in Adelaide and
comforted the N.S.F. in its affliction.
Mrs. MacLaurin, wife of the Chancellor of
Sydney University, died last week in her sixty-
first year. She was a noted worker along philan-
thropic lines, and. until her health failed, was a
member of the State Children’s Board. Mrs.
MacLaurin was a daughter of the late Dr. Charles
Nathan, a man distinguished in the medical and
scholastic life of Sydney. Her husband and five
sons survive the deceased lady.
Three baby tigers at the Zoo are being nourished
by a Yorkshire terrier, and she is as fond of them
as if they were doglets. Report says that Pa
Tiger pushes food through from his side of the
cage to his cubs and their foster mother. Ma
Tiger wasn’t disposed to fulfil her maternal
duties. Seems that “ tiger, tiger burning bright ”
won’t take on such obligations unless she is free
to jag in the forests of the night. Another
animal story —one I know by sight—is that of a
well-grown retriever who wears a child’s “com-
forter” slung on his neck. When he wearies of
playing or fighting with other bow-wows he flops
in the shade, takes the comforter in his mouth,
and is happy.
A bunch of nuns have gone from Rose Bay
Convent, Sydney, to Tokio, in Japan, to start
educational work there on the gilt-edged little
Jap girl. Some of the same order of French nuns
will join the Rose Bay group in the work. As the
educational mission is by arrangement with the
Jap Government, the nuns will most likely find
their way strewn with cherry blossoms. The
Rose Bay brides of God have also lately opened a
convent at Spring.wood—a great joy to some of
them who were anaemic and pickled through living
so long close to the sea shore.
A Sydney architect, who keeps track (pictorially)
of the stately homes of England, mentions that
“ Forest Lodge,” the place recently acquired by
the Villeneuve-Smiths in Sussex, was, until a few
months ago, the home of Mrs. (Dr.) Rutherford
Jones, a sister of Mrs. Harry Plimmer. Mrs.
R. J. yearned for a constellated humpy in Wales
instead, and has got it.
I couldn’t be there myself, so “ Seaman
Gunner ” sends me this :
H. M.S. Kia-Ora, under way from Fiji to New Hebrides.
Great “ buzzes” re our business there. Have aboard the
High Commissioner of the Western Pacific and suite.
Arrive Vila. Find French man-o’-fight anchored. Great
commotion, much gold lace, cocked hats, official visits,
and salutes. Hands told off for guard of honor to land
with band, etc., on Monday. On Monday the old familiar
bugle call, and landing party tumbles down into the boats.
Land, and form one side of a square on a small green.
Band amuses natives with a few lively airs while waiting.
“Guard —’shun! Present —arms 1” and the guard from
the Frenchman marches into position facing us, looking to
a British blue-jacket’s eye like a crowd of ploughboys.
Natives and Europeans (mostly French) form the remain-
ing sides of the hollow square.
All hands wear that look of weird expectancy. Then
our Commissioner steps into the ring, seconded by our
skipper and his aide, gazes around, gets his bearings, and
opens out from a Proclamation in English (which nobody
but ourselves understands) —“ Whereas by agreement
between the Republic of France and the Kingdom of
Great Britain,” etc., etc., “ these islands, known as the
New Hebrides, shall henceforth be controlled by the joint
Government,” etc., etc., “each nation to have equal
rights and privileges,” etc., etc. “God save the King.”
Then the French Commissioner takes the ring, and does
it in French (which everybody but us understands).
When at length he has palled his capstan, the signal is
given and Tricolor and Union Jack flutter to the breeze,
the guards of honor present arms, and our band strikes
up the “ Marseillaise,” then “God Save.” And the two
cruisers in the bay boom out a royal salute.
And don’t the Froggies throw a chest apiece, and the
little French girls’ eyes glisten as the band plays their
stirring anthem ! Then the crowd “ Viva,” and even
attempt “ Hurrah.” “ Order—arrms ! ” and each of the
Commissioners, in his own language, gives a speech, and
wishes success to the new order. Then, “Form—fours!
Right! ” and down to the boats.
It’s interesting —apropos the recent burglary of
Cholmqndely Castle (England) by the Duke of
Westminster’s friends, from Eaton Hall—to note
that the Englishmen (more especially the blue-
blood of that race) has ever had a taste
for this brand of humor. Taine (him-
self a fervent admirer of the British character)
touches on the tendency again and again.
A decade ago no smart British house party was
complete without its expert maker of apple-pie
beds, and at least one guest ready and willing to
sew up at any moment the legs of some other
guest’s tubular clothes. Dark stories got into the
press of booby-traps (bags of flour, buckets of
water and the like) which crashed from
neck-breaking heights on to ducal, and eke
princely, skulls as the owners thereof unwarily
opened the doors of the Stately Homes of
England. A particularly shrieking and hence
popular joke was to confiscate the newly-
arrived visitor’s evening trousers half-an-hour
before dinner, and leave him fuming and unfed
while the rest of the guests absorbed nourishment.
(An Englishman would starve ere ever he ventured
from his room in the wrong sort of trouserings.)
Things went from bad to worse till, at Tranby
Croft, one of the young Wilsons —maddened by
food or excitement or something—addressed the
then Prince of Wales (now Ed. Rex) as “Albert.”
The embryo monarch could stand the forcing by
the Jersey Lily of a large wet mass of ice down the
back of his neck (though the incident was timed
for one of the coldest nights of the year) ; also he
endured with fortitude on one occasion the stun-
ning impact of cwt. of boiled sago on his head ;
but colloquial familiarity from a nouveau riche
commoner (and a male at that) was over much.
A ukase went forth under which all forms of
strenuously intimate jesting wilted even as the
green bay tree which has been ring-barked. The
recrudescence of the old practices in Cheshire is
significant as an indication of how innate charac-
teristics will come to the surface no matter who
says them nay.
French and American papers alike are unanimous
just now that another slender-waist epoch is at
hand. It’s not till the dread hour actually strikes,
and the ukase enjoining some wholly inadequate
waist-limit issues, that the average female in this
Commonwealth will fathom the depths of genuine
grief. Golf and swimming have played the mis-
chief with the willowi ness of our Nicest. Sydney
can show but one young woman with a beautiful
figure accompanied by a naturally tiny round
waist; and Melbourne, where the Maddens grow
and local girlhood runs madly to tea and cake
shops at all hours, can’t do as well even as that.
Mrs. Lachlan Beaton, her two little children,
and Miss Ruby Adams will leave Sydney in Feb-
ruary for an extended visit to London and other
outlandish places. Mrs. Beaton’s going will leave
a vacuum wide as the mouth of the Mississippi
in the life of Sydney, for she is one of the
brightest, most cultivated ard sympathetic of
womenkind. She is, it will he remembered, a
daughter of the late W. B. Dailey. Miss Adams,
whose beautiful soprano voice has lately
been raised aloft for the first time in public, wiil
submit her notes to further training and polishing
whilst abroad. Mrs. Amv Sherwin and Mr.
Arnold Gange will also be February departers.
Ada Crossley has once more come within the
managerial net of Mr. J. C. Williamson, and will
return here for an Australasian tour what time
September is yellowing her hair with—what kind
of flower dye does September use? Anyhow,
Kendall wrote of the yellow-haired September,
and it is yellow, like a wasp’s corset. Miss
Crossley has long been a top-branch bird in Eng-
land. Perhaps her hubby will come back with
her and prosecute his artistic fad—a taste for
Persian and other uncommon rugs. The fair
Ada’s house, in St. John’s Wood, once belonged
to Lord Leighton, the famous painter.
The Wangaratters have music in their souls.
When Paderewski was here the Wangaratters
asked him to play in their best front yard, and he
lifted his russet eyebrows in amazement. His
education was incomplete, and he hadn’t heard of
Wangarat.ta. But when it guaranteed him the
sale of 700 seats at half-a-guinea each, he began to
hear of Wangaratta quite distinctly. Melba sings
there towards the end of January, under even
better guarantees.
Lieutenant B. E. Pritchard, R.N., of His
Majesty’s floating homicide Prometheus, and
Madeline Vera (Mollie), youngest daughter of
the late Mr. M. Simmons, of Sydney, are being
congratulated on their engagement.
Judging by the dramatic news in the dailies,
we are threatened with more Little Brune. Now
what has Australia done that Providence and
J.C.W. should do it Brune a second time ? Miss
Brune was good as Sunday and l’Aiglon, but
we got as tired of her as we do of the nor’-easter
after it has blown seven months at a stretch.
Little Brune will probably be here about Resur-
rection time. Margaret Anglin’s coming is post-
poned till June.
Saw at a “When Knights were Bold” per-
formance a mighty pretty hair ornament. It was
a mass of ivy leaves in bronze tissue, veined with
steel. The girl along with it had trimmed her
hair over her left eye, and she was very fair.
But the tendency is to trim the left side of the
hair only.
Case of the late Mrs. Scott Harden, who in her
girlhood was a resident of Orange, has a pathetic
side. She had a mania for travelling on the
well-known ocean highways, and used to become a
greatfavorite, forherswasa fascinatingpersonalitv.
Her husband, a solicitor, left Sydney towards the
end of last year, and passed over the visible
horizon. The generous allowance he used to make
his wife ceased with his vanishment, and after
failing to get a living on the stage and along
the inky way she probably went out—by
way of the open door. She used to
take morphia to relieve neuralgia. A
hypodermic syringe was found near her when
her body was discovered, in a wood, near London.
One of the humorous facets of the imported
domestic damsel gambol is the tendency of the
press to interview Mary Ann Bull, as if she were
an actress. The Moravian on Sunday morn-
mg lessened the acuteness of the yearning
for more domestic girl by twenty-one. There
is a very natural desire on the part of the
twenty-one to have a look around before taking
places. Up to date none of them has spoken of a
prospective mistress, or “bag o” chips,” like the
girl in one of Zangwill’s plays. Also, the girls
are getting hot about the collar at having to go to
the Immigration Depdt to select and be selected.
In this matter they also want to go on their own
and the I.D. must by now have an idea that
Mary Ann Bull is doing the Continent a great
favor in adding herself to its population.
Mark Foy is erecting three acres of building on
the Liverpool and Goulburn streets block. The
staircase is to be the latest novelty. It revolves.
You put your feet on the bottom step and sail up
to the dome without any exertion. In the dog
days such stairways will be welcome to every cat.
Seventeen of the 20 Anglican bishops of Austral-
asia leave to attend the Lambeth Conference, in
England. How strenuous are the labors of our
bishops that we can do without 17 in a bunch and
not even notice their absence !
Dr. William Maloney, M.H.R., Melbourne’s
“Little Doctor.” is in Sydney with his only
daughter, Gladys. The women of Melbourne are
presenting the Dr. with an autograph album con-
taining over 20,000 names and addresses of women
workers. This is in recognition of his services in
the cause of the downtrodden sex that wears
skirts. The presentation will be made in February,
Miss Marion Parritt’s singing of “Blue
Bonnets,” at the Highland Society’s concert,
excited the audience more than did several skirls
of the pipes. And when she gave the Society
“ Sound the Pibroch ” you’d have thought the
Highlands had sat down on an ant-heap, so
suddenly did the Grampians rise. Then the
voice of Ben Lomond and Loch Shin was
heard in the land, and Auchterarder called to
Audi term uchty, and all Haggis broke loose.
Miss Parritt, who produced all these effects, is a
Melbourne girl, and if Sydney wasn’t so hot and
dull she would certainly be heard again before
her bonnet goes back over the border to the
Southern capital.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Bung lifts up his battered head in N.S.W.
and announces that in future he is going to have
a paper of his own which will withstand the
assaulting Gamp of Prohibition, and shy the
empty beer bottle at the skull of its enemy.
Fair Play, “the official organ of the Liquor Trades
Defence Union,” is a publication of promise, and
if it continues to put the case for Beer soberly
as well as strongly, it should have a future.
The railway parcels-office clerks are a
worried and wearied lot of men at Christmas
time, and most of them would cheerfully slay half
the populace. Still even they have their joys.
One long streak of Wayback slid into Spencer-
street (Mel b.) office on December 24, and gazed
solemnly at the clerk. “Y’ didn’t happen to see
Bill Jinks, of Wodonga. did y’?” he inquired.
“ Did he leave a parcel ?’’ “ N-no ; but I thought
he might ’a’ passed through.” “P’raps I didn’t
notice him. Did he have a label on him?”
“Ya! yerkiddin’!” said Wayback, and closed
the discussion. The expected Christmas goose is
a source of fearful worry. After vainly calling
six times for the anticipated dinner that didn’t
arrive, a little Lizzie lost her patience, and sang
out: “ Rats to you an’ yer old office ! ” The
sprat-to-catch-a-mackerel Christmas-box amuses
the clerks. Mostly it’s a turkey or goose, but the
other day a man called at Prince’s Bridge for a
parcel that he had been advised about. It turned
out to be one lone rabbit, and there was a shilling
to pay. “Y’ can keep it,” he snorted. “If I
take that bunny, I’ll have the whole, blessed
family down for a month.”
Downing-street, through Lord Stanley, on
July 10, 1845, thus sent to the late Victoria (vide
her correspondence, now published) the news that
some beastly colonial person wanted her to taste
something he called wine :
Lord Stanley, with his humble duty, submits to your
Majesty a despatch just received from the Governor of
South Australia, enclosing the letter of a settler in the
province, Mr. Walter Duffield, who is anxious to be
allowed the honor of offering for your Majesty’s accept-
ance a case of the first wine which has been made in the
colony.
Lord Stanley will not venture to answer for the quality
of the vintage ; but, as the wine has been sent over with
a loyal and dutiful feeling, and the importer, as well as
the colonists in general, might feel hurt by a refusal of
his humble offering, he ventures to hope that he may be
permitted to signify, through the Governor, your
Majesty’s gracious acceptance of the first sample of a
manufacture which, if successful, may add greatly to the
resources of this young, but now thriving colony.
The above is humbly submitted by your Majesty’s most
dutiful servant and subject.
It recalls the manner in which, over 50 years later,
the same superior authority received Australia’s
offer to go and shoot perfect strangers in S’Africa.
About a friend of ‘ ‘ Poleaxe’s ” :
Saxton, when first I knew him, was in hard training for
Vineyard service. His purposed specialty was the
Methody line of bondage. Saxton had the requisite Face
to a perfectly calamitous extent, which, with other assets,
caused him to be deemed on all hands a certain starter
in life’s sprint as Minister and Preacher. On a sudden,
he vanished utterly from my ken. Years after, while
absorbing a counter-lunch, I observed a familiar face, into
which masses of German sausage were being pushed.
Behold, it was Saxton. At the cost of one more pewter
and an ungodly aroma of dead alcohol, I learnt his
story. As aforesaid, he was running in the Maiden Stakes
for Methodist ministers. The Sabbath dawned whereon
he was to do his trial gallop or sermon before the stable
elders. Now, Saxton had, in all good faith, become en-
gaged to two different damsels, neither of whom (he was
convinced) knew of the other’s existence. Judge his
annoyance when, on coming out on to the track, he saw
both females in close confab below the pulpit. It com-
pletely put him out of his stride. The trial sermon was
a screaming failure, and as a result the Chapel cogno-
scenti unhesitatingly- wrote down its perpetrator as below
the poorest picnic racing form. The tw-o young women
awaited the would-be cleric in the saddling-paddock after
he had weighed in, and behold the fat was even as Dives.
The worshippers conceived the idea that Saxton had
ridden a snide race, or something, and treated him as a
common welsher. Thus arose scandal and the hostility of
the righteous, and afterwards poverty, thirst and tempta-
tion towards the consumption of those mysterious food-
stuffs which are given away with beer. Such was the
romance !of Saxton—a true type of those who lose the
world for love. His w-orld was a mighty small one, but it
was all the w orld he had, and he lost it.


MELBA
To “My Australian Friends.
30 G»eat Cumberland Placc
w
2^^
J $iW - OyiMT
tOU. 0(f\) %&*) CU/^IU^L el
§ . C(A/ m CU~ -
(f\ fcvuy
'Cm tfKZ
.? .
(C) f 4c*,/
/Li-f tT /
tf) £\ %-4jX^- e? 4^"'
4 X<vW Ay Ct >
iKrfe/W
fe/[ lZ&jZ* /Lo
C^V^Y
2
C/(*s j
A tUc tint# ■
BROADWOOD PIANOS
Broad woods* Manufactures tiave been recognised as
THE BEST IN THE WORLD
By All Leading' Musicians from
BEETHOVEN TO MELBA.
62J
yj.
AS
"V
ET
By Special Appointments to
His Majesty The RING.
Her Majesty Queen Alexandra.
The Prince of Wales.
H.R..H. The Princess of Wales.
&
%r>
Qjf
"MOW
ET
All intending purchasers of a first-
class piano should send for Broad-
wood booklets and illustrated
catalogues.
Sole Ag'ents
for
New South Wales
Easy deferred payments arranged,
and if required your old piano
taken as part payment.
The British Piano Depot, Ltd.
9 Barrack Street, Sydney.


CARDEN
HOS
TT
r Gives long service, does not kink
or burst, and lasts for years.
Specify “DUNLOP” Brands, and
you will get the Best Hose at a
reasonable price.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEAOINC STOREKEEPERS
k DUNLOP RUBBER CO
\ Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth. Bnshso?.
and Christchurch. N.Z
V
WRINGER
ROLLERS
RE -RUBBERED
BY THE
X
as
DUNLOP
RUBBER C 9.
We make a speciality of Re-Rubbering
Worn-out Rollers, which should be for-
warded to us detached from the machine.
Cost of Re-Rubbering: loin, x in.
Rollers, 4/- ea.; 11 in. x in., 4/6 ea.;
tain, x\\ in., 5/- ea. Repairs executed
without delay.
log Flinders St . Melb
Clarence SL,
Sydney,
i n Grenfell St.,
Adelaide.
76#-770 Adelaide St .
Brisbane.
8l King St.. Perth.
Worcester St.,
Christchurch. N
RL
PC
43
o
"JTYLLtJMPL
r- :
WORLD
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 13, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik,—
There’s not the slightest doubt now (though,
despite encouraging rumors to the contrary, it was
touch and go till very recently indeed) that the
Society divorce case, beside which the just-con-
cluded atfair would have ranked as a mere police-
court dispute, is “off.’’ The Wallace disturbance
was, after all, a “Society ” divorce for daily news-
paper scoop purposes only. The Wallaces
their entourage weren’t “ people one knew’—if
one moved in exalted circles. The more recent
trouble —which perished untimely in the
offices of a moderately discreet Gentle-
man One —would have been a hall-marked
wallow of 18-carat brand. People of
almost unnatural probity shuddered for weeks
at the certain prospect of a subpoena and the
thought of the garish arc-light of a vulgarly in-
quisitive lawyer being directed on their sanctity.
Stern, righteous old men hurried to their banks
in shoals during the past month, and ascertained
whether, in the event of the worst happening, the
finances would run to a year’s trip to some
sequestered spot like Irkutsk. And the anguish
of the co-re and of his worthy parents and his
relatives in three States was a drear circumstance
to view. The Hubby was badgered, threatened,
and implored on all hands to desist. And he has
desisted. Counter charges make cowards of us all.
Everyone who isn’t “ abrawd,” or in Tassy, or at
the seaside, and can afford to be away from his or
her own suburban lean-to, is up at Macedon. The
State Lady installed in Government Cottage is
entertaining relays of highly-respectable citizens,
and Miss Chandos Pole, the Carmen Pmschof
family, the Whitings, the Ernest Raleighs, and
all the other regulars have carried to the whole-
some height their respective atmospheres. Where-
fore the earnest adherent of the simple life curses
complexly. The simple life, lived thoroughly,
permits the liver to regain its normal size, and
encourages one to expose one’s naked complexion
to the blowing zephyrs. Smart neighbors pro-
hibit most women doing either. There is no
simple life at Macedon.
In January Melbourne’s social pendulum stops
completely. Grilling residents bolt for their
houses in the mountains or swarm into hotels andL
boarding-houses at the seaside. Every yard of
beach round The Bay seems to be under canvas,
and the necessary money-earning man drops his
office like a hot brick at the singed end of each
day, and travels miles by weirdly slow trains to
the hills or the seaside. A seaside train in
Victoria travels at an average rate of seven miles
an hour.
Melbourne maidens and matrons proved them-
selves real sports during the six grilling days of
the second Test match. Cricket was the only
thing that counted. The Governor Lady scarcely
missed an hour, and the Madden maidens risked
the perfection of their complexions in their
keenness. Mrs. Frocky Raleigh grabbed the
same corner all and every day, and wore
dreams of gowns. She chaperoned a Fenner
flutterer, as usual. The “Beauchamp pair,”
Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Thomas, aired smart
toggery and cute cricket jargon all along,
and Tettie Appleton never missed a ball. Vi
Levy, wearing big stripes and a wide hat like an
adorable coon, gave even the fascinations of a
trousseau-hunt best for the six days. An athletic
Queensland Amazon dominated one corner of the
grand stand every day with wild enthusiasm—she
went one better even than the Small Boy.
Cricket and its crowding excitements enticed
Mrs. Ernest Raleigh from her mountain solitude
(if a villa set in the midst of five-and-fifty others
may be counted solitary !) and brought her to this
over-heated hamlet for a week. With her lank
lord in her wake, she had a time which could be
described as good. One afternoon she made a
radiant appearance with an entourage which
comprised her own husband, another lady’s, and
a whole half-dozen beardless youths. The eight-
ninths of the party hung upon her utterances, as
though they came from the lips of that enchanted
girl whose golden voice broke a silver silence to
scatter pearls. What more could the heart of
woman desire than the undivided attention of
eight men—provided she gets it outside a law
court, where a woman may get the undivided
attention of 12 men ? What wonder that the
charming matron sparkled like an electric light ?
Purves, K.C., when cross-examining petitioner
Wallace in the famous divorce case, repeatedly
referred to the Bona as “ your rubbishy old
yacht.” This was absurd. Wallace had the Bona
specially built for his wife. The Sayonara was
quite good enough for him, but one afternoon he
took his wife and some of her friends out, and
they got their feathers wet, whereupon Mrs.
Wallace denounced the Sayonara as quite unfit
for a woman, “Very well, my dear, you shall
have a boat fit for a woman ! ” said Wallace
cheerfully, and he ordered the Bona, a beautiful
craft in which his wife had a saloon and a sleep-
ing cabin of a most luxurious type. The sleeping
cabin had a dressing-room and bathroom attached,
and was fitted with every convenience that money
and architectural skill could supply. In fact the
boat was a miniature floating palace, and a
grizzled old shark like Purves should have known
better than to call that sort of craft “ a rubbishy
old yacht.”
The twelfth juryman in the Wallace case was a
tent-maker ! O ! wise and subtle Omar Khay-
yam ! It’s proved at last that your vinous philo-
sophy has more intelligent adherents than the
hysterical young women who would sooner leave
oil their camisoles than go abroad without a copy
of your first edition. The twelfth juryman was a
tent-maker. The twelfth juryman gazed long
upon a moon of fair delight. Consequently, being
a dear, philosophical creature, he was the only
one amongst the ominous dozen who was so
pitiful or so credulous that he conscien-
tiously disagreed with a verdict against the
lady. And our local Khayyam’s unique
opinion has left an opening which permits the
convicted pair to appeal against the hard decision
of the odd eleven. At present it is on the cards
that the moon and her co-re. will collect another
expensive Bar, and through the loophole left by
the blessed tent-maker, troop back into the court,
where those whom God has joined together are
put asunder by a mortal disguised in a wig.
An enterprising purveyor of locally-made shoes
(described fatuously enough by him as American)
shows in his window a pair of dashing sandals,
“ The Novar !” Such is life—and a cute adver-
tiser ! A baker’s dozen of reputations and many
people’s peace of mind are blasted —to name a
bargain line in shoes.
The aftermath of the Wallace case seems to be
a general billing and cooing among mates who
had been ruffling their feathers. Costs are a
terrible warning.
Mrs. L. L. Lewis is almost returned to health.
She’s so much better that she goes to live at
“Fairleigh,” S. Yarra, next week, where she’ll
remain till she and her L. L. go to England in
April. Mrs. L. L.—the Rosa Dunn of long ago—
is one of those intelligently-charming women
whom one is loth to hear of as suffering ; so her
recovery has been joyously acclaimed by all who
know her—especially those seniors who adored
her as a stage divinity once upon a time.
The Bowes Kelly coterie has been having a spell
of bad luck. Mrs. Kelly was ill unto death.
Then the mountainous Bowes was gathered into
that fold shepherded by high-fee’d specialists and
Her Arrogance of the mauve uniform and
portentous little cap. Now Mrs. White, the
large sister of Mrs. Kelly, who is the most
imposing Fate in the family, has had her jewels
stolen. They were such fine ones too. She has
always been notable for a display of diamonds as
extensive and iridescent as a ball-room chandelier.
It would be amusing to know how a lady appraises
her trials, and discovers which she counts most
sore —to nearly lose some relatives, or to quite
lose her jewels. Probably this adage is a fair
suggestion : “ Our relatives are given us—we have
to buy our jewels ! ”
The youth whom Rumor announced as the
next oblation to a scandal-worshipping populace
has been withdrawn from that r&le by the adroit
stage-manageress. At latest, it is promised that,
instead of entering the arena where the fearless
philanderer is martyred by a tigerish petitioner,
he’s to be the victim of matrimony. On dit, that
his mate will be the beauteous daughter of a
quite undistinguished person. Which, considering
the prejudices of his family, will give them as
severe a shock as the youth’s threatened appear-
ance in a cause celebre. That’s the worst of one’s
family being victimised by foolish illusions —
especially those that relate to Sassiety. Natural
and proper circumstances take on the horrors of a
dire misfortune, and the inevitable and the com-
monplace become as intolerable as Divine ven-
geance.
A very varied crowd farewelled the Mongolia.
Clever Jennie Brennan, who sailed off in search
of better health, had about a hundred theatricals of
graded importance and the female belongings of
five aldermen to say good-bye. His Gaiters
Clarke had all the anti-Gnashites hanging on his
pompous utterances. Bishop Armstrong, of Wan-
garatta, was yet another voyager; the Canon-
Gnashites were in force to wish him luck, and
implore his endorsement of their cause in Hing-
land. And the Lachlan Mackinnons said
“good-bye” in an unsentimental fashion to a
number of well-frocked ladies, and a collection of
journalists who love a journey to Oanossa.
The musical boom promises to go rolling on
through this year. Mrs. Steinhauer (formerly
Mrs. Bahnson, of M.L.), who flourished in Mel-
bourne as a teacher of singing on the higher scale
of fees, and was fashionably farewelled when she
and hubby departed for London some ten years
ago, is coming back to set the Yarra ablaze in
May. Hubby aforesaid is Albert Mallinson, and
when London Times remarked that the lady is
“one of the few great lieder singers,” the critic
might have added that she is the only one who
arrives at her “ interpretations ” under the com-
poser’s personal guidance. Mallinson writes all
the lieder, and accompanies his wife at the piano
whilst she warbles them, so the recital is a unique
family affair. Mrs. Mallinson-.‘Steinhauer is a
Dane. Queen Alexandra took her up, as a good
countrywoman should, and backed up her clever-
ness to a triumphant success. For the “dear
Queen’s sake” the light of vice-regal patronage
will be turned on to the full at the Mallinsonian
performances.
Mark Hambourg, of the carefully-dishevelled
locks and the deeply-premeditated scowl, is due
in Melbourne in July, wherefore gushful girls are
beginning to save-up for the visitation. Little
Mark has married a wife since the last time he
shook his mane at a piano on the Town Hall
platform, but the happening of a Mrs. Mark will
make no difference to the matured spinsters who
formerly wept with delight when he gave them a
smile, and trembled with joy at his frown.
Matrimony, according to all accounts, has not
impaired the weird musician’s genius for sonatas
or his splendid talent for showmanship. He is
the same I, Me and Myself as ever he was in his
early teens, when Australia first knew him. The
same girls, supported by younger sisters, will rush
the organ-seats and hang gloatingly over the
waving hair and masterful hands and rolling eyes
of the Soulful One.
An erstwhile Melbourne girl was married, in
Sydney, last week, to a Westralian. The Voice
that Breathed in the hot air musically announced
the wedding of Hersilia, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Fred Henriquez, and Mr. George Francis
Shenton, nephew of Westralia’s Lieutenant-
Governor. The bride is a dainty little lady, who
has inherited her dark beauty from Spanish-
American ancestors, and she owns a nice little
heap of shekels, with which to adorn her loveli-
ness. The maiden had spent months in weaving
lace for the adornment of her wedding gown,
and the “chiffon ninon ” of its substance
was hung with, perhaps, a hundred guineas’
worth of rose point. The David Jones firm
mounted this wonder appropriately on layers of
silk and gauze foundation. The wedding was a
frocky affair altogether, and the feast was spread
for a huge party at “ Orme,” Darling Point-road,
after the ceremony at St. Mark’s. The Wedded
Ones are going West to live in the glow of the
sunset.
Melba, who must remember Herbert Flemming
when he was the adored of Melbourne shes,
brought her party along in the inevitable motor
to the Princess’s to see the burly Vicar, on
Saturday night. Mr. Sam McCuHQch cavaliered
the Diva, whilst her son and Bis . ter V
Lempriere) had their other halves in attend-
ance. The retreat of the sestette to central
seats in the third row of the dress circle
was quite an incident of the first interval, rre
viously they had sat in the direct lme o re
the remarks of a Lady Way-Back with a loud
voice, who had something very audible to say
about Melba and her pretty daughter-in-law and
other matters. The shifting of the camp was a
silent protest against this aggressive commenta-
tress.
The Arral warbler has been laid low with an
attack of fish-poisoning. “I met with an acci-
dent,” she says naively. “Eet was a '
The little lady is better, and wanders ott to ias-
mania this week.
One of the singing angels whom Melba really
does approve is Evelyn Doyle, a Brisbane gir ,
who learnt the nightingale industry m Sydney.
Melba gave the lucky lass much instruction in ttie
theory of bel canto, with a jewelled illustration
from her own throat. Now Miss Evelyn cranes
her neck in the direction of Europe (of course .),
and looks forward to further kindliness from the
Great Woman.
The earring craze becomes an obsession. To
one woman who draws delicate attention to her
pink shell with a gleaming jewel, half-a-dozen
others put the lobes of their flaps out of gear with
the weight of stone and metal. Anyhow, how
many women know the Oriental meaning of ear-
ringing? Simply the badge of slavery. In early
Jewish days, a slave was pinned to the door or the
master’s house with an awl jabbed through the
ear-lobe as a happy little initial proceeding.
Bings were put in to accentuate the piercing.
Guaranteed a pair of diamond pendants to follow
the painful ceremony, many a modern matron
would let herself be nailed to the backdoor, or
even to the door of the wash-house.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
’Tis said that at the end of their term we are to lose our
Le Huntes, at which we shall weep like the waters of
Jordan. South Oss has been proud of possessing the
handsomest Exes, in the ’Roo country, and it hasn t
many pleasures, poor old South Oss (beyond, of course,
its tram service). ’Tis also rumored that the present lot
will be the last imported State Excellencies, and that we
shall in future look at home for some one to open and shut
seasons, bazaars, and other things whereof the door is
liable to bang if not watched. And then won’t there be
conversation for Cats? “Have you called on the new
Governor’s wife, my dear? ” “ Good gracious, no ! Why,
her uncle’s brother’s second wife doesn’t keep a maid.
My people never knew them, and I don’t mean to.” Or,
“ Why, of course. We’re related, you know. My cousin
married her grandfather’s nephew.”
This State expects an epidemic of Voice during the
next five or six weeks Blanche Arral, the mysterious
and fascinating, will give us a concert or two, unless the
Melbourne express is ditched with its beautiful and
melodious burden, or some other disaster takes place.
Next Amy Sherwin warbles a farewell to us, bringing
along with her your young Sydney-side soprano, Ruby
Adams. And Melba is to descend upon us for two bursts
of melody at the Exhibition. When the population heard
the glad tidings, half of it came tearing back in a frenzy
from its summer jaunt, and has now retired into strict
and economical seclusion to save up the admission
money. Some of it is even alleged to be doing its own
washing for the time being.
Miss Maud Hildyard, the frocky lady at the Theatre
Royal, sports one of the gorgeous silver gowns so much
in vogue among stars of the moment. It’s a dazzling
temple of millinery with about a million joints that give
it a scaly, mermaidy appearance. And there is an over-
frock of net about as delicate as a spider’s drawing room.
Report says the damsel is receiving £BO a week, and
faith 1 she’d need it to pay the piper—in other words, the
clothes-architeet.
Mr. Henry Anlaby Dutton-who-wants-to-be-called-
Squire took his dear little gem of a yacht, Adfile, out of
its glass case, the other day, collected a party of the
Elect, and set out on a cruise up the wild and untamed
gulf. The latest addition to the expensive toy (by which
I mean the yacht, not the gulf) is a truly ultra motor
launch, which is expected to reach these barren
shores by the Britannia. It is described as a fast
launch, which did 13 knots at its trial. By the
way, it is Mr. Harry Dutton, son of the above (as
they say on the tombstones), who, with his motor, has
been leaping sand-hills and snags in the interior. At
latest, he was camped at the salubrious hamlet of
Oodnadatta, trying to teach the motor to swim.
The Chief Justice Ways have been partaking of the
hilarities of Port Lincoln, the chief excitement of all being
the laying of the foundation stone of a new Methodist
church. The Chief achieved the bricklaying deed, and
had the usual quantity of butter, rhetoric, and trowel
handed to him. Not to be outdone, he presented the
Oldest Inhabitant with a mallet of Australian blackwood,
silver-mounted and inscribed, and together the two de-
clared the stone well and accurately deposited. It was a
riotous function, I believe, and suggestive of theproceed-
ingk of Elagabalus, or some such individual.
Latest engagement hereabouts is that of pretty Sybil
Davidson (sister of the artist damsel) and George, son of
sharebroker De Rose.
There has just returned to us from the Angle Isle, after
an absence of eight years, one of our medical daughters,
Dr. Christina Goode. The damsel brought down her
degree with accurate aim at Adelaide and Melbourne
’Varsities, where she did various distinguished things.
Lately she has been practising in Britain, and was
resident medico at the West Ham Infirmary. She’s a
daughter of the Mathew Goodes.
Another young local medico, Dr. Alfred Stokes, has
been appointed house surgeon at the Great Ormond-street
hospital, London.
“Mario,” from Brisbane:—
The engagement is joyfully announced of Miss Brenda
Macaiister, she of the swift feet and flexible toe, and
daughter of the S. Brisbane C.P.S. Mr. F. Middleton, of
Sydney, is the other party.
Squatter Albert White, with his handsome missis (who
was better known to you as Mrs. Morrison, sister of Mrs.
Perry, of this city), is in town, en route for the South.
The Slade couple and their chilly daughter leave for Tas-
mania on Saturday next. On the same day the first three
daughters of Robert Philp (he has five) start for Tasmania
and Maoriland.
The general aspect of Brisbane just now is that of a
deserted city, and the only enlivened moment of the
week was when a mutual friend asked a few of us to tea
and let us into a romantic story from the North. A young
woman, whose father is a high official, had promised her
hand, without her heart, to a young man greatly approved
of by the family. After a while the right man hove in sight,
and the butter was in the conflagration. Pa and Ma”set
their faces against the right man, and ultimately bundled
Miss Wilful off to a station to stay with some of the wron t T
man’s relatives. During her visit the right man found hinT-
self transferred to Sydney, and at a much better salary
and having a drop or two of young Lochinvar blood in him’
he wired to his lady : “ Transferred to Sydney. Will you
come?” She wired back, “ Yes," or “Yep,” or some-
thing. Then she packed her boxes, concocted a story
about Ma being sick, and hurried off. She met the right
man, and became, by marriage, the right woman.' Then
a blow fell. The right man was ordered not to leave for
the South till the following week. So the lady thought
it best to concoct another narrative, and go home
Things went middling for three or four days, and then’
the happv husband ventured out to tea. A chilling wel-
come made him wish himself well away and on his de-
nature his bride received a correspondingly hot time-so
hot that next day she drove in and told her husband
that he must break the news at once. Then she went to
a friend’s and waited for Ma to come, after her husband
had smashed the information, and bring the prodigal
home She waited all day. But no Ma came with the
farted calf under her arm. At five the husband arrived
with the news that Ma and Pa had cast her off, without
even sending her a tooth-brush, or a night-dress. Then
he went and explained to his boss, and that potentate
kindlv packed them off to Sydney by that night’s boat so
that they might blush unseen away from questioning
friends and inquiring enemies. The lady’s trousseau was
scantv but she repaired it in Sydney. Ma and Pa are
now explaining things. What the wrong man is doing I
know not and I wouldn’t have the courage to ask him.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


o • •
THE
SALE of SA
S
Queensland’s Big' Money-Saving' Event begins
24th JANUARY.
Last July —the occasion of our Winter Sale —we took up a whole page in
The Bulletin to prove to you that Queensland —or rather Brisbane —is the
cheapest centre for Drapery in the Commonwealth. We suppose some
people laughed ; the “ don’t knows ” usually do ; but thousands believed —
tested the statement, were satisfied.
This advertisement is for them and for the doubters, who are given
7 o
another opportunity to come into the fold.
Turkish Towels.
White TURKISH TOWELS, suitable for Dentists, Hairdressers, and
Lavatory Towels.
Size 14 x 32 inches. Usual Price, 3s. lid. Sale Price, 2s. lid. dozen
„ 18x38 „ ~ 4s. lid. „ 3s. lid. „
Thick White TURKISH TOWELS.
Size 20 x 43 inches. Usual Price, Hid. Sale Price, Bid. each
Large White TURKISH TOWELS.
Size 23 x 54 inches. Usual Price, lllrd. Sale Price, Bid. each
Best Quality White TURKISH TOWELS. Manufactured by Christy.
Usual Prices ... Is. 9d. 2s. 2s. 6d. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 3s. lid. each
Sale Prices ... Is. 4£d. Is. 6d. Is. lid. 2s. 4id. 2s. lid. 3s. 3d. „
Sheetings.
White TWILLED SHEETINGS. 51 inches wide. Usual Price, 9Jd. yard.
Sale Price, 6s. lid. dozen.
Plain White SHEETING. 51 inches wide. Very soft, Pure Finish.
Usual Price, Is. yard. Sale Price. yard.
White SHEETINGS. Odd Makes, in Plain Twilled, 68, 72, 76, 80, 86
and 90 inches wide. Very much reduced in price.
Unbleached SHEETINGS, in Plain and Twilled makes.
52 to 54 inches wide. Usual Price, 10|d. Sale Price, yard
~ Is. ~ 9s. lid. dozen
Unbleached SHEETINGS, Plain Make.
80 inches wide. Usual Price, Is. 4|d. Sale Price, Is. l£d.
Unbleached SHEETINGS, 70 to 80 inches wide. In Plain and Twill ; odd
makes. Very much reduced in price.
White Madapolams, Calicoes, and
Congcloths.
Perfectly Pure MADAPOLAMS ; one yard wide. Regular Price, 3s. lid.
Sale Price, 2s. lid dozen.
Our Famous “Big Block” MADAPOLAMS, 36 inches wide. Perfectly
pure finish.
Regular Price, 4s. lid., ss. lid. dozen
Sale Price 3s. lid., 4s. lid. ~
Pure Finish LONGCLOTH. No. KG I.
32 inches wide—Regular Price, 3s. 6d. dozen. Sale Price, 2s. 9d. dozen
35-6 i) j> >j 3s. lid. ~ ~ ~ 3s. 3d. ~
Tea Cloths, Etc.
226 dozen White Fringed Damask AFTERNOON TEA CLOTHS, with
Red, Pink, or Blue Borders, size 27 x 27 inches. Sale Price, s£d.
each
106 dozen Red Bordered Fringed White Damask TRAY CLOTHS,
size 17 xl7 inches. Sale Price, 3l>d. each
51 dozen White Open-worked Fringed Damask RUNNERS,
Size 13 x 45 inches. Sale Price, 6d. each
~ 13 x 54 ~ ~ ~ ,,
162 dozen White Open-worked Fringe Damask DOYLYS, in round, oval,
and square shapes, size about 8 inches. All One Price —One Penny
15 dozen Frilled White Muslin CUSHION COVERS, printed in art
colored designs, fast colors. Usual Price, 3s. 6d. Sale Price, Is. 6d.
each.
UnderclotHing.
LONGCLOTH NIGHTDRESSES, Tacked Fronts, and Trimming of Frills
and Tucks. Reduced from 3s. lid. to 3s. 3d.
MADAPOLAM NIGHTGOWN, Embroidery, Insertion, and Trimming.
Reduced from 11s. 6d. to 9s. 6d.
MADAPOLAM NIGHTDRESS, Trimmed Torchon and Beading. Reduced
from 10s. 6d. to Bs. lid.
LONGCLOTH COMBINATIONS, Beaded Accordeon Pleated Frill. Reduced
from 3s. lid. to 2s. lid.
LONGCLOTH COMBINATIONS, Frill of Muslin, Pin Tucked. Trimmed
Embroidery and Insertion. Reduced from 3s. lid. to 3s. 3d.
LONGCLOTH COMBINATIONS with Frill and Madapolam, Tucked and
Yoke of Embroidery, all-over Insertion. Reduced from 3s. lid. to
3s. 3d.
LONGCLOTH COMBINATIONS, Trimmed, with Tucked Accordeon
Pleated Frills, 2s. lid.
MADAPOLAM COMBINATIONS, Trimmed Embroidery, Insertion, Bead-
ing and Tucks. Reduced from 9s. 6d. to 6s. lid.
Ladies’ COMBINATIONS. Longcloth. Trimmed Torchon Lace and Inser-
tion. Reduced from 9s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Ladies’ COMBINATIONS, in Madapolam. Trimmed Torchon and Em-
broidery. Reduced from 9s. 6d. to 7s. 6d.
Ladies’ LONGCLOTH KNICKERS. Trimmed Embroidery. Reduced
from 2s. lid. to 2s. 3d.
Ladies’ MADAPOLAM KNICKERS. Trimmed Tucking and Em-
broidery. Reduced from 4s. 3d. to 3s. 3d.
Small Women’s BATHING SUITS. In Navy and White Stripes. Reduced
from 2s. 9d. to 2s. 4d.
Women’s BATHING SUITS. In Navy and White Stripes. Reduced from
3s. 9d. to 2s. lid.
BATHING CAPS. Waterproof. Reduced from Is. lid. to Is. each.
Women’s BATHING DRESSES. Navy and White. Reduced from 2s. 3d.
to Is. lid.
Maids’ BATHING DRESSES. Reduced from 2s. lid. and Is. lid. to
2s. 4d. and Is. Bd.
Girls’ BATHING DRESSES. Reduced from 2s. lid. to 2s. 4d.
Women’s Cream Plated Spun UNDERYESTS. Plain or Lace Fronts.
Reduced from 2s. lid. to 2s. 6d.
Ditto. Reduced from ss. 9d. and 7s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. and ss. lid.
Women’s Cream Plated Spun COMBINATIONS. Silk Finish ; Fancy
Fronts. Were 16s. 6d. and 17s. 6d. ;to be cleared at 14s. 6d.
Women’s Cream Spun Silk COMBINATIONS. Were 18s. 6d. and 21s. ; to
clear at 14s. 6d. and 15s. 6d.
Plated Spun Silk COMBINATIONS. Reduced from 10s. 6d. and 11s. 6d.
to 7s. lid. and 9s. 6d.
Heavy Cream COTTON VESTS. Reduced from 3s. 6d. to 2s. 9d.
Brown COTTON VESTS ; shaped waists. Reduced from Is. 6d. to Is. 3d.
Plain Cream COTTON VESTS. Reduced from 9d. to 7^d.
Plain Cream COTTON VESTS, with short sleeves. Reduced from Is. to 9d.
Women’s Ribbed Cotton COMBINATIONS, with wide American knees.
Reduced from ss. lid. to 4s. 6d.
Fine Silk and Wool Coloniella COMBINATIONS. Very superior quality.
Sold ordinarily at 18s. 6d. and 19s. 6d. Now 14s. 6d.
Fine Silk and Wool Coloniella COMBINATIONS. To be worn with Evening
Dress. Reduced from 235. 6d. to 16s. lid.
Women’s White Scotch Gauze COMBINATIONS. High neck and short
sleeves. Reduced from 9s. 6d. to 7s. lid. A few with long sleeves,
same price.
Women’s India Gauze COMBINATIONS. Reduced from Bs. lid. and 9s. 6d.
to 6s. lid.
FINNEY, ISLES <a CO. Ltd.
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
Maryborough
(Q.)
And London
Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.)


Makes old Tanks
tfood as new!
<?
m
...
■ - >:
\\ *T
jap
\
at all first class Storekeepers*-Ironmongers
Manufactured
by ... .
THE ATLANTIC REFINING CO.
CLEVELAND,
OHIO, U.S.A.
Wholesale Agents :
DALGETY AND Co., Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
Tasmanian Woolgrowers’ Agency Co., Launceston.
W. D. Moore and Co., and Harris, Scarfe and Co., Fremantle.
Head Office: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
MAN’S ADORNMENT 1 I
Some fellows say Moustaches are out of
the fashion—but don’t you believe it.
Try CAPILLARINE and get one !
1016 Post Free Anywhere.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
Makes you look manly
"fer-
Before
1
After
CAPILLARINE, the only sure
Moustache Crower.
Improved LIQUID PISTOL.
IT 13 NOT A TOY.
SILENT and SMOKELESS.
The Best on the Market.
Invaluable for Cyclists.
Unprotected Ladies,
Night 'Watchmen and others.
Kwar-NVill Stop the Most Vicious Do* (or
Man) Without Permanent Injury.
Charged with Water, Ammonia, or other
liquid, and will fire 10 shots from sft. to 25ft.
■without re-loading. Besides its usefulness,
the greatest fun imaginable can be had with
the Liquid Pistol. Causes Roars ot Laughter.
STRONGLY MADE OF POLISHED NICKEL.
The U.S.A IMPROVED LIQUID PISTOL, with Extra Metal Covering and
improved Trigger Device, 3 6 E»ost, free.
ALSO IN STOCK-ELECTRIC POCKET LAMPS. 8s 9d & 7» 6d.
A. J. SMITH C£b CO., 14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The “JEWEL”
COLUMBIA CRAPH-o-phone
Price, £5.
The most popular and up-to-date machine on the
market.
o
ts
2*
m
Send for Leaflet “ B,” which gives a full description of this perfect machine.
Fitted with the
wonderful “ Lyric ’
reproducer and
all the latest
improvements.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Gen’l,
London, New York, Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg, Milan, etc.
255 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve Is 1
Packet of Ten lod.
MAKE MONEY WITH THE
■ • ■
EDISON CIHEMATOCRAPH!
price - - £32 10s.
m
We are selling them all over Australia and New Zealand to enterprising showmen
who want the finest projecting Kinetoscope in the World.
FOR BRILLIANCY OF PICTURES, ACCURACY AND PORTABILITY,
THE EDISON IS AT THE TOP.
It can be operated without any previous knowledge of the art. It gives brilliant
results, and is equipped with reels that hold from 1000 to 12,000 feet of film. It is fitted
with a stereopticon attachment for showing standard size lantern slides. It will outlast
any other machine on the market. It does its work perfectly all the time.
We make films of every description to order. We let films out on hire. We do the
largest Cinematograph business in the Commonwealth.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
200,000 FEET OF NEW FILMS IN STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., My Opticians,
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
THE ECONOMIC LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, list, till I sing of a beautiful thing,
Of a gospel so simple and grand,
That I’m sure you will deem it a suitable erne
•Tis the Law of Supply and Demand.
,Tis a wonderful law, not a fault or a flaw—
’Tis marvellous how it was planned ,
It came from above, on a mission of love,
With the blessing of Peace in its hand.
’Tis meant for the rich and the man in the ditch,
And each have a different brand ;
The poor are to try the Demand to Supply,
While the rich will Supply the Demand.
A gospel so sweet to the man in the street,
So kind to the Lords of the land,
Deserves we should raise up our voices in praise
Of the Law of Supply and Demand.
How the miner will glow in the darkness below,
How his big chest with pride will expand,
As he fondly dilates to his wondering mates
On the Law of Supply and Demand !
And the navvies will chaff, and will chuckle and laugh,
As they cheerfully hustle the sand.
And they’ll pity the fool who objects to the rule
Of the Law of Supply and Demand.
And the old and the weak will be lowly and meek,
For of course they will quite understand
That you couldn’t suspend, for the sake of a friend,
The great Law of Supply and Demand.
If you haven’t a bob and you’re out of a job,
You may join with the numerous band
Who obligingly die when they find the Supply
In excess of the local Demand.
W.A.
TOM BEASLEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The retail swindler becomes a spieler; the
wholesaler, a millionaire. A Ballarat hawker was re-
cently convicted of obtaining money by false pretences,
by selling gold-tilled, gold-cased and rolled-gold pins, not
as genuine gold, but as containing a certain proportion of
that metal. Now, if he had but imported and sold them
wholesale, he would not have been put to the indignity
of arrest, to say nothing of the inconvenience of three
months’ hard labor ; he would merely have been requested
to send his clerk to attend the private Customs
Court, and explain how the mistake occurred. And he
would have been very unlucky if he had been struck by
anything worse than a 40s. fine.
The advertising fiends, not content with dis-
figuring the beauty spots of the Port Jackson foreshores,
are adding to their sins by hiring boats to cruise on the
harbor itself, and flaunt on their sails the brazen notices
about “ Diddler’s Drops for Deadness,” etc. A favorite
time and place for these pests is right at the entrance to
Sydney Cove, just as the crowded ferry steamers are
converging towards their wharves. The result is that
most of the ferry boats have to dodge with marvellous
agility and at great risk of collision with other ferry boats.
The Sydney Harbor Trust has a regulation prohibiting
any steamer, lighter, punt or trading craft from naviga-
ting in Sydney Cove while the ferry traffic is busiest,
and this wise regulation should be extended to the
advertising sail-boat.
* * * *
A recent robbery at A.lf Summers’ Old England
Hotel, Melbourne, disclosed the fact that that jolly Bung
owns a silver coin said to be worth about £loo—to wit, a
NT.S.W. token of the denomination of Is. 3d., struck in
1820, in Governor Macquarie’s day. The thieves took it
with the rest of the boodle, some £3OO, but didn’t like
the look of it, and dropped it hurriedly. They hadn’t
patronised Bilanderson and observed what happened to
the person with the Incriminating Document without
learning something.
He was a capable, honest little clerk, and had
worked like thirty-five ordinary Trojans ever since he had
been with the firm. In addition to his other virtues, he
possessed the divine grift of forbearance ; but the gift had
beln severely strained by ten years of petty tyranny, and
in due course the last straw arrived. The boss was a
man whose life was cursed and blighted with suspicion
He suspected everybody and everything and thought
that if he only kept his eyes wide open, and paid enough
surprise visits, hewould eventually be rewarded by find-
fng out that his faithful accountant w-as robbing him or
hod robbed him, or was plotting to rob hitn. With this
amiable end in view, he had contracted a perfectly
useless habit of gliding into the office at odd intervals
and suddenly asking : “ What are you doing now
Mr Cashbook? ” or, “ Is everything in order, Cashbook?”
H the bookkeeper happened to be puzzling over an
account at the moment when he entered, he would put him
through a stupid cross-examination, and, because he was
unable to understand it, would wind up with a wail of,
‘‘ God bless mv soul, Cashbook ! 1 don’t know what you're
doing ' I never know what you’re doing ! Get the pass-,
hook made up to-day, and let me see if I ve got any
monevTeft!” After ten years of this the little clerk
fplr that life held nothing more in the way of insults
that coffid possibly interest him. On the day the last
straw came to hand, he was looking through an atlas he
had lust bought for his little son. He had become quite
engrossed in the book, and had it open on top of his ledger
at the map of South America. A shadow fell across the
na-e and the little man, looking up, found his employer
bubbling with indignation and suspicion in equal parts
.7 Wh * t are vou doing with that book ? demanded his
chief. “ What do you mean by looking at that book ? ’’
Then and there the little man revolted. Oh, I m
looking for a place to abscond to! Ive embezzled
£583 000 this week, and I’m trying to pick a spot where I
can spend it safely ! Do pow know of any place ?
His wildly astonished boss glared at him for one insane
second Then he rushed back into his private office,
slammed the door, and locked and unlocked everything
five times in rapid succession. Subsequently there was a
long, mysterious, dead silence.
Ever since that day the boss is almost apologetic when
he performs the weekly insult, and the little bookkeeper’s
manner, in consequence, borders on the triumphant.
* * * e
“£.s.d.”: Opposite a Melbourne suburban
store which boasts its ancient days, the newcomer has
arrived with this notice “ Established only the other
dav. No old stock.” I reckoned I might find an idea to
steal in those premises, so explored the window, and
found a broken brick in a pile of lemon-peel and currants.
On the window was a notice: “ Who threw that brick
and knocked down our prices?” I bought a box of
matches, as a sort of compensation to the grocer in case
you pay for this par.
« • *
“Sweet Pea”: Out back just now the home
separator is the new pet in the homes o’ Cow'. The milk
is put through the whirligig, and the daily cream-crops
are dumped into a can that is kept under cocky s bed, or
in a corner of the stable, till the week-end, when it finds
its way—the fresh contents with the stale —to the factory.
The Vic. Board of Health is beginning to bestir itself in
the matter of homogeneous cream consignments, and
there is much concern in Cowdom in consequence. The
most pathetic feature about the separator business is the
keen competition amongst the canvassers, while, without
exception, the most tempting head-line in the separator
prospectuses is that which tells the world of Cow that
the particular brand of machine referred to ccinbe worked
by ami child. The new' Commerce Act should prohioit
all reference to child labor in connection with the
separator business —either in print or practice.
The Railway Commissioners get pretty cool
proposals sometimes. Those of N. S. Wales and Queens-
land were lately asked if they wouldn’t quote a special
rate for carrying railway sleepers for export to S Africa—
in other words, whether they wouldn’t encourage a trade
that w'ould swiftly rush up the price of their own
requirements. The ears of the Commissioners were dili-
gently bitten ; but that pretty little piece of business
didn’t come off.
» * » *
“ N.L.” : Our washerwoman is spreading news
of a way to get something for nothing. It is the same
old “ given aw'ay with a pound of tea ” idea, but with an
element of mystery added. You don’t know what you
are going to get till the packet is opened. “ The can-
vasser came to mv place,” said the washerlady, “and
begged an’ implored me to buy some of his tea. I told
him I didn’t w'ant any, so he says just to take one packet,
an’ if there wasn’t a present he’d give me my money back.
So I took one, and when I opened it there was six spoons!
Then I took another, and got a lovely diamond and ruby
pin, nearly as good as real. The tea? No, it wasnt
much good. It hardly colored the water, and as for the
taste ! But you can’t expect everything. You
know I’d never have got those things any other way.”


BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS
m
-
■
U ;
r< ;, :
3S
'’£**3fssj^
* .-j
-
40p«
I«VW
«»
»•*
«W:
■■
r **gp • ***#►■'“
*»*
'*“3
' -■ %
- • w t ' ,; ' ; *
■
'*' « a •■■JaM* stasEC. » • ■ ■<■'■**: >_ '**K#:iw>t'~.^w»‘;
■*» I - * -£_# ' -* -'Vnm»wi»uT»»»
■ ,■_.. ':rt. V;
..■ ■•-■
FULL CONCERT GRAND, for Franco-Brltish Exhibition, London. Price 275 Guineas.
This Piano was, liKe all BEALE Australian PIANOS
MADE ENTIRELY IN AUSTRALIA.
The whole of the cabinet-work—the whole of the iron frame and all other iron castings—the whole sounding-board —all the bronze, gunmetal,
brass and aluminium castings —the screw-studs, action-bolts and nuts—the pedals—the ball-bearing castors—the keyboard —the carvings—the solid
iron wrest-plank -the patented wrest-pins—the agraffe studs—and even the lock and key —all were invented, designed, and made entirely in our
own factories in Australia.
The Scale was calculated and drawn out on plan entirely in our own factories in Australia. This is by far the most difficult and technical
item in piano manufacture.
This instrument is of the highest possible grade, unequalled in respect of the tuning-system—whereby its durability is greatly extended -and
is not surpassed in any other direction by any piano in the world. The tone is magnificent, the touch perfect. Further particulars gladly forwarded
to any inquirer.
No less than six different machines, automatic and semi-automatic, used in making the patented wrest-pins, drilling the patented iron wrest-
plank, making the agraffe-studs, making the screw-studs, action-bolts and nuts —were designed and made by us in our own factories.
Australian pig-iron, copper and other metals are used in this instrument. A Special Australian glue (which, after long experience of
both, we find superior to imported) is also used.
The improved hinges for the top (whereby a moulding may be had on all four sides, an impossibility with imported pianos) were designed and
made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
No Other Piano Manufacturer in the World accomplishes such a wide range of work.
The only part of this instrument which was not made entirely in our own factories is the Action (the mechanism which causes the hammers to
strike the strings when the keys are played on). This part was made by the action-maker admitted to be the best in the world, whose actions aie
used throughout the world only in the most expensive instruments. The style used by us is the very latest double repetition.
Inasmuch as wood-screws and steel and copper wire are not made in Australia, Nettleford s screws were used by us, and the wire was imported ;
but even then the copper wire was wound on to the steel in our own factories on machines designed and made by us.
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS' GUARANTEE.
BEALE CO., LTD.,
Australian Piano
Manufacturers,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES:
Trafalgar Street, Annandale, N.S.W^.
BRANCH OFFICES at 474 George Street, Sydney; Hunter Street, Newcastle; George Street, Bathurst, N.S.W. ;
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Vic.; 127 Bundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland). BRANCHES and TRAVELLERS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.


WOMEN OF THE HIGHEST TYPE
Acknowledge that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are Women’s Best Friend.
Women of the highest type, women of superior
education and refinement, whose sane discernment
and good judgment give weight and force to their
D?
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
Mg’
opinions, highly eulogise
the wonderful corrective
and curative properties of
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. Years ago, pills were
the medicine of the poor
only. To-day the efficacy
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills to overcome the
common ailments, and
restore health and happi-
ness to sick and ailing
women, has convinced not
only the working section of
the population, but the
wives and daughters of the
more wealthy, professional,
and independent classes,
that Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a great
female medicine, and are
absolutely indispensable to
every lady’s boudoir.
Women who value health should never be without
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Nurses ana
doctors recommend them, and thousands ot
women who now enjoy health and strength owe
their rescue to this wonderful remedy. Through-
out the many stages of woman’s life, from peevish
girlhood through womanhood, motherhood to the
declining years of old age, there is no better,
milder, or more effective medical companion to
women folk than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pms.
They heal inflammations and ulcerations, and cure
all womanly weaknesses, cleansing and restoring
the bowels, liver and kidneys to perfect working
order. A few doses occasionally when well, wIU
assure a pure and healthy system.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents— Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOITIONS
As far as it has gone the Third Test has been a
dreary exhibition from an Australian standpoint. The
veterans went to the dogs in the first innings, and the
colts came along and piled up 285, thereby pulling
the innings somewhat out of the dust. "W hen England got
to the sticks 363 were put together, leaving Australia
78 behind on the first innings. The second Australian
effort started disastrously, “champagne” Trumper being
taken without scoring. Noble, who has so of. I®® 1 ®®
stepped into the gap, and held the bridge toHowtioj
tried to plav the part again, and had made 65 when he
was caught by Gunn off Fielder. The day was blister-
ingly hot, and the fielding seems to have been hotter
still, but as The Bulletin goes to press the outlook,
which was gloomy, begins to brighten. Hartigan and
Hill had lifted the score to 304 for 7, and if the Aus-
tralians can find a good bowler, their chances are better
than Buckley’s.
* * * .* .
The fizz is off the “ champagne of cricket ” with
a vengeance in the third Test. In the first innings
Trumper made four, in the second none. The explana-
tion is that he is ill. If so, what is he doing in
the Australian XI., anyhow? Is the Australian XI. a
sanatorium, or a Rest Cure institution, or what t it a
man is too ill to play he ought to be turned down, and
someone who is well put in his place. But the desire to
keep new blood out of the Australian XI. is the run"#
passion with some people—especially some people in the
Australian XI.
* * * *
Talking of the second Test (which is ancient
history) the mistakes of the captains were as obvious to
onlookers around the Oval as they appeared in the printed
figures. Noble made too much use of the expensive
Cotter, whose average was six wickets for 224, as against
eight for 204 credited to Crawford on the other side.
Fane, for the Englishmen, showed more discretion as
regards Fielder than the Australian captain showed in tne
matter of Cotter, considering that he had the larger
assortment of bowlers to choose from. Noble himself
two for 67—might have won the match for Australia
whilst Cotter was getting some of those 226 runs knocked
off him. On the other side, Fane nearly gave the game
away by giving Braund the chance to secure a bowling
average of no wickets for 63 runs in the second innings
of Australia instead of keeping Rhodes longer at the job
As forthebatting.it is still an open quesuon whether
the Englishmen saved their bacon or courted defeat oy
playing the slowest game on record on the last two daj s
of the match. To the writer’s way of thinking they ought
to have been counted out like a fallen boxer who goes to
sleep for more than 10 seconds at a stretch. J ust 282
runs in 379 minutes was the visitors’ achievement, and
the absurdity of this rate of scoring is shown in the fact
that the two low-down batsmen, who bore the heat and
burden of the tight finish and carried their bats out of
it, were about the least slow in getting their runs. Also,
they added more to their reputations than any of the
others, bar Hutchings. Fielder totted a useful 24 with-
out getting out in either innings, and Barnes got 52 for
once out. Not being expected to do much, they did it
in striking contrast to the unnerved batsmen of better
class. For instance, it was refreshing to see rielder play
Armstrong with rational confidence after Braund had
been quaking and pottering at every delivery of the "V ic.
leg-break bowler.
+ * * *
Even the most enthusiastic cricketer begins to
admit that watching a Test match for five days has a
streak of monotony about it, and the question of the
hour is how to make cricket interesting all the
time. A Melbourne caitiff, writing under the name
of 4< Dogberry/* suggests that the stumps be increased
from three to eleven, the bat reduced in size, and the
batsman be compelled to run whenever he touches the ball.
On the other hand “Dogberry” would temper the wind for
the worried fool at the wicket by having both teams in
the field at the same time, and the crowd whose men
were batting should be allowed to trip up, push down,
hold back, and otherwise prevent the fieldsmen from
whacking the leather in. In fact they should have all
the rights and privileges of footballers to prevent the
other side getting the leather. No doubt it would make
cricket interesting, and also bring much grist to
doctors, undertakers, tombstone-makers, and obituary
poets. . ,
* * * *
The sixth round of the Sydney Metropolitan
First Grade Cricket Competition was concluded on Satur-
day last, and it was discovered that, while Sydney
generally had both eyes glued on the doings of the
Englishmen, North Sydney had surreptitiously plodded
right away from its rivals, and now’ heads the list with
15 competition points. The nearest rivals are Middle
Harbor and Glebe, with eight each, and then follow
Paddington, Gordon, Central Cumberland and Redfern.
All the rest, save University, which is plain nil, are some-
thing at the back of nothing.
* . * *
The downfall of Burwood, beaten by North
Sydney bv an innings and 18 runs, was an epitome of the
stories of Tyre and Sidon. Palmyra and Carthage. The
deadly bowling of L. A. Minnett on the previous Satur-
day, combined with fielding sharp as a cat’s reproach
when it reproaches with two feet, saw the once mighty
Burwood dismissed for 82. North Sydney made 256, and
then the Burwooders started out on the.weary contract
of catching up the leeway. But 121 was- all they could
rake together, and the end was grey grief for Burwood
and a three-point win for the Hillmen.
* * * *
A startling recovery was made by Petersham
against Redfern. The Syrian suburb made 319 the pre-
vious Saturday, and went home feeling good. But
Saturday last brought a hideous awakening, when Peter-
sham produced two century-makers in G. Harvey, who
made 114, and R. W. Law', who left 117 to his credit, and
totted up 384 for the innings. This gave a winning
margin of 65. For the rest Glebe downed Balmain by
148 on the first innings. Gordon wiped the grass with
Paddington with 50 to spare on the first innings. Central
Cumberland crushed Waverley, in spite of Syd Gregory’s
good play, by 62 runs on the first try ; and University
rolled over Sydney by 89.
* * * *
A likely looking colt is O. H. Dean, who was a
schoolboy last season. On Saturday he drove most of
the nails into Waverley’s coffin for Central Cumberland
by hitting the leather for 101 before Syd Gregory
managed to bowl him. Altogether Gregory was the
mainstay of his team on Saturday, making 80 with the
bat and taking five wickets for 41 runs.
* * * *
English professional cricketer A. E. Relf, now
“ coach ” at Auckland (M.L.), has been the (mainstay of
Auckland’s triumph in the Plunket Shield, the blue
ribbon of Maoriland cricket. In the match against Can-
terbury Relf scored 157, and also 83 against Otago. Relf
leaves Maoriland in March to get back for the English
cricket season, and is alleged to be carrying a tall order
to engage another batch of English professional coaches
for M.L. Associations.
. * * *
Saturday last was a strenuous day on Sydney
Harbor. The Lane Cove Club’s 10ft. championship was
run-off by competitors apparently worked up to a state
of baresark desperation. Ten started, and so fiercely did
they crowd on sail that six simply blew under the water,
one had to retire, and the eighth boat’s mast was not
equal to the strain, and snapped. The two uninjured
boats, Planet and Estelle, arrived in that order, and the
Waratah, in spite of a broken mast, drifted home third.
The Sydney Flying Squadron held its 18ft.
championship, and 17 came out to do battle in the hard
north-easter, which came with extra savage squalls and
spiteful puffs at brief intervals. Balers were working
hard from the start, especially as some of the
were carrying enough canvas to have shifted a White
Star liner comfortably. First excitement was the filling
ut> of Wonga under Bradleys Head. The crew
git on top and did a perish till assistance
arrived. Then Zanita, with 12 men aboard rcdled
over right in the track of a crowded steamer.
Rounding Clarke Island, Haritana s crew was slow
stowing the ballooner, and-puff-over went the boat.
Then plain sailing resumed, and as the man said at. the
inquest, “all was calm,” till they got before the wind
again. Eileen, Mona and Australian went away with a
bound, but Mona’s big balloon 31b blew right.out,.rib-
boned from end to end. A few minutes later Austra
ban’s did likewise. Then Crescent, sweeping along under
the 14-footer St. George’s sail, went gracefully to the
front and won by 49sec„ with Eileen in second place, and
Mona and Australian with their tattered sails third a
fourth respectively. A tine, exciting race.
But the event of the day was the Fringe
Alfred Club’s fight for the club championship. They
were all there, but, as usual, the interest centred in the
struggle between Awanui and Rawhiti The course was
the usual one, known as the Manly-Pile Light run, and
Awanui and Rawhiti promptly went to the front, Awanui
flying a small topsail, Rawhiti carrying lower canvas only.
Although Awanui got away first, the Auckland-built
vacht closed up steadily, and there were on^ v
between them right through the whole r *ce. And while
they chased and hunted one another, Brother W. ±.
Marks was driving the little Culwulla for all she was worth.
Racinf from Manly to Shark Island, Awanui got a lead of
mec 'from Rawhiti, and Culwulla was third with over
nine minutes of the handicap still to spare Accidents to
gear eliminated three on the run to Fort Denison, and
Rawhiti came tearing through the water under a g
ballooner. Then they raced away for the Pile Light, but
Rawhiti had broken the spinnaker boom, and bemg un-
ableto use that sail was at a considerable disadi antage.
Awanui had gained on the time allowance of 6min. lsec.,
and was leading by over half a minute irrespective of the
handicap, they blew past the marker s boat
Awanui was still in front, with 12sec. to spare, and Cul-
wulla llimin. behind the second. VV hen the time allow-
ances were worked out Awanui won by 2min. 7sec. from
Culwulla, which beat Rawhiti by 4min. 6sec. There is no
longer the slightest doubt that Awanui is I the fastest
sailer in Sydney Harbor. Mr. W. M. Marks handling of
Culwulla was clever.
* * * *
Lured by the hope of a new excitement, a crowd
that packed the seats, stood on the balustrades, and
slopped over into the arena, paid from Is. to half-a-crown
a head to assist at the opening of Melbourne s new Saucer
Biking Track, Saturday evening. Certainly the pine seats
are amazingly hard, and the incandescent track-lights
somewhat intermittent, and the man who announced the
results per megaphone was a fraud and a delusion , but the
erection of two electrically-worked result boards, one on
each side of the Jug or Cup Track, should not be beyond
the management’s capacity. Otherwise all is whirl, rush,
smash, and fierce excitement. The dangerof riding round
the slippery, sloping ends of the soup tureen is more appa-
rent than real, but it is there all the time. A slack tyre,
a broken chain, or the slightest touch from a competitor,
and one or more slither down to the asphalt, at a
30-mile gait. There were four notable falls—always at
what looks like the danger-spot—where the ends of
the tureen grade off into the “ straights. In a tandem
heat Corbett and Hall came down just after starting,
twisted the rear wheel, and wrenched the tyre
off In the half-mile handicap, Burton and
Murphy touched when going at top speed,
clung together and flopped down anyhow, their macmnes
being wrecked. And towards the end of the 5-mile race
P Hehir going all he knew round the rim of the saucer,
skidded and rolled to the bottom, three riders behind him
narrowly escaping destruction. Hehir didn’t appear to
have any bones broken, but he looked This
5-mile race was a notable wind-up to the evening s joy.
Pacers, doing half-a-mile each, took the riders round at a
sprintin»- pace. When the last pacer ran off with half a
mile to go, Pye set out for the tape as fast as
he could pedal, Gascoyne and A. J. Clark follow-
ing. At the gong Clark passed Gascoyne and
sailed on after Pye, half-way up the saucer run.
He had about 10 yards more to cover than the other, but
he did it, landing the £l2 first prize by half-a-length.
Time, lOmin. 35sec. J. G. Walker collared the Open
Handicap 4-mile “tenner” from 60yds., in 58sec., with
Lealow second, and R. H. Lynch third. Bob Morgan and
W. Palmer negotiated the mile Tandem Handicap, from
20vds., in 2min. o£sec., just stalling off Pye-and-Clark by
a yard. The great MacFarland was in evidence as M. 0.,
but the remains of a cold or something prevented him
showing his speed on the new track. -the management
observes that it is negotiating with the Rev. Major
Taylor, and one Friol, an alleged world’s champion,
from Denmark or thereabouts; and if it keeps its
riders “ clean ” it will probably reap the reward of virtue
cash, to wit. • But in the sth heat of the half-mile
handicap on Saturday, F. L. Millard, on the 15-yard mark,
deliberately paced Clark (scratch) up to the field ahead,
and then ran off, making no attempt to win. Clark won
the heat, but, having no pacer in the final, failed to catch
the field. That was doubtless good tactics in that heat,
but if such pacing is to be the rule, the public should
know which of the riders are going “on their own,”
and which for somebody else’s benefit. If riders are
to be allowed to “ whack" the prizes the Saucer
might as well be pulled up and sold for firewood.
The circling will occur every Wednesday and Saturday
evenings till the expectation of a mighty smash wears off,
or till the schemers get their little ’eads together. Mean-
while, the show savors of Wrenism—the announcer being
the fellow .who useter say, “Gentlemen, fer the best o’
twenty rounds,” at the Cvclorama. John o’ the Tote
occupied a box, and the therein force.
“Vulcan”: The success of recent Pekin-Paris
motor race stirs Paris Matin to further efforts at some-
thing extra —a round-the-world contest, to wit. The
route has been chosen so as to necessitate only two ship-
pings of the cars—from France to England, and from
England to America. It will run through Boulogne,
Folkestone, Liverpool, New York, Chicago, Klondyke,
thence over the frozen surface of Behring Strait to bleak
Northern Siberia, Irkutsk, Tomsk, Moscow, and Paris.
Technically, this isn’t a run round the globe, but a skip
around the top rim. But it is the nearest to the real
thing that is possible.
♦ * * *
The motor car meets a new horror, exclusively
its own, within a few months, first in France, then in
England. Two smashes have resulted from the chauffeur
dying at the wheel. In the first case, the driver suc-
cumbed when beginning the descent of a dizzy hill, and
five wrecked humans couldn’t be sorted out from the
ddbris of a wrecked car when bottom was reached. The
English accident occurred while the car was at high
speed. But, in this instance, the driver spasmodically
applied the brake when dying, and only a smashed
fence, a smashed car, and some slightly smashed
ladies resulted. Heart failure was the trouble in
each case. Of course, death under similar circum-
stances is just as liable to happen when a man is
driving the gentlest of Dobbins at the most funereal
amble ; but, in that case, Dobbin just pauses for refresh-
ment, or ambles indefinitely, and he isn’t a greased Sheol
streaking for the horizon.
” * * * *
Melbourne is beginning to take the hog in the
car very seriously. And about time, as the hog seems to
have been having a field-day very frequently of late, and
to be making good bags all the time. Curiously enough,
St. Kilda is the only one of Melbourne municipalities
which has a law to deal with the hog. - In all the rest, he
is apparently free to do as he likes, so far as municipal
authority is concerned. Some time ago, Tommy Bent
brought* down a Bill to license and register cars, but,
having a row with the Labor party over the minimum
wage of chauffeurs, he threw his Bill under the table and
put his feet on it. The consequence is that Melbourne
police see motor-cars running over people, but, as the cars
carrv no identification numbers, and get away quickly,
and the copper can’t run 20 or 30 miles an hour and over-
take them it is quite impossible to do anything
£d "Whin. v » jaass
impossible to secure a conviction. thortv
wuz travelling betwane twenty-foive an thorty
moiles per hour, yer Washup ! ” Not at all, not at au i
Not more than nine miles, yer Honor 1 say s the affluent
nartv from the box. And, as there are no marseu
r!nin?s between which to time him, it is impossible for
the police to prove the speed, and a timorous Bench
it must give the defendant the benefit of the doubt. Or,
if it doesn’t give him the benefit of the doubt,
man who can afford a £l2OO motor car ss. J?* ™?ou 8 ,»
should be supplied with watches withlarge second hands,
and then they could time the car gelling bloc ,
after which the rate of speed would be easily
worked out. As for penalties, nothing can be better
than the German law. In the Fatherland, a
Somebody Very well. Fat has to support Somebody,
.. his medical and all other expenses while he is laid up,
and also support Somebody’s family breadwinner
is about again. And all this does not take away therign'
of Somebody to recover damages for shock and sufferi g.
If Fat kills a breadwinner, then he has to support and
educatethatTperson’s family till it is oldenoughtolook
after itself, and the widow for the rest of her life, or t
she signifies that she desires assistance no longer, " hen
this fearsome Bill was introduced it was said that
motoring would die right out in Germany. It hasn t—
but the practice of running over people has.^
Although during the sailing contest there were
several times as many as 60 men in the water simultane-
ously, the swimming championship contests were really
carried out at Shearer’s Baths, BalmoraL
the day w as the 300 y ds. championship of the State The
holder of the record is H. Bakejr, and as n
was not present to defend his title Cecil Healy had
to attack his time instead. However, the day was not
suitable for record breaking. The strong N.E. wind P'led
the water up in great mounds and hillocks, and being of
a fluid nature it ran down again, and made an almighty
iobble. So Cecil’s name was Mud before he started.
Still he made a brave attempt, and got over the distance
in 3min. 36 2-ssec., which, considering the slipping of the
water, was fast. ,
* * •
Melbourne Swimming Club reps.—Gant, Harris,
Crane, Mason, and Fitts, covering 80yds. apiece-easily
annexed the Victorian squadron championship at the
Albert Park Carnival on Saturday afternoon. From the
moment Gant struck the water till Frank Fitts com-
pleted the 400vds., the Melbourne boys increased their
lead, finishing up 30yds. clear of the field in a choppy'sea,
and the clock said 4min. 15sec. T others—
Middle Park, and Brighton—were mostly out in the cold.
Frank Beaurepaire captured the 160yds. handicap from
scratch, giving away 18sec. Melbourne swimming car-
nivals are conspicuous for amateurish management, the
show man instinct being entirely absent.
* * * *
Watson’s Bay (Sydney) swimming girls got off
their second carnival on Saturday last, but—the pity of
it —only women were admitted. And all the grace, and
sweetness, and beauty but sparingly adorned were abso-
lutely wasted. Said that one sweet swimmer wore roses
in her hair, but when she saw there wasn’t even a male
reporter present, she tore them out in disgust. From
what one can gather, the Watson’s Bay girls do know how
to run a carnival, and there was not one angry word among
the officials during the whole afternoon ; the timing was
carried out without a dispute, and no competitor was
disqualified for giving back talk. The chief item was the
Ladv Rawson Challenge Shield, which carries with it the
back stroke championship (ladies) of N.S.W. it
was won by Gladys Alldritt for the Wentworth Club,
with Estelle Murray, of the same club, second, and Amy
Graham, of Watson’s Bay, third. It speaks volumes for
the management when even that didn’t break up the
summer peacefulness of the afternoon.
The Webb-Tresidder match for the sculling
championship (which was fixed for February 20) has been
postponed, owing to the tide being unsuitable on that
date. The match will possibly be rowed a week later.
The course has also been shifted three and a quarter miles
lower down, which will leave only one turn to be nego-
tiated and a straight mile at the finish.
* » • *
The appearance of a Maoriland professional
Rugby team in the fields of old England has roused the
amateur unions of England, Wales and Ireland to the
urgent necessity of doing something. Till the appear-
ance of Baskerville’s team, the Northern Union was
looked upon as a decaying body, but when it took on an
imperial attitude and actually brought along a Maori-
land combination, and followed the movement up by in-
viting an Australian professional crowd to come along
next season on the same terms, the haughty amateur
bodies became alarmed. So they too have taken up an
imperial attitude, and have invited an Australian amateur
team to come along next season to be run as a counter
show to the professionals. For the present Scotland
is standing out—it wants to make absolutely sure of
which way the bawbee will jump before risking anything.
Ireland and Wales admit manual workers to their amateur
clubs, but England allows only young men in collars and
cuffs to play, and the result is that English amateur
Rugby is in a mighty bad way. About the only way to
improve English amateur Rugby would be to re-establish
the game on a more democratic basis, but, in any case,
the competition of the professional clubs, which pay good
fees to crack players, would probably bleed the amateur
body of its best players, and turn the amateur clubs into
mere recruiting and training bodies for the professional
clubs.
* * * *
A Victorian country racing club, having in-
quired of Chief Secretary Peacock if it is compelled to
pay a fee of two guineas for registration by theV.R.C.,
received a reply that the law requires every racecourse to
be licensed by the State—and that is all. Now the little
club is wondering whether it can proceed against the big
club on a charge of blackmail or obtaining money by
threats or false pretences.
• * • •
Though clashing of Sydney horse and pony
meetings—a result of the Wade Betting Bill—reduces
profits in the aggregate, it is possible that the pony ven-
tures actually gain. More of the class who frequent pony
courses are at liberty on Saturday than on Wednesday
afternoons. Coming week-end will see newly-opened
“ unregistered” Victoria Park Club in opposition to Rose-
hill. Pony peoples’ advantage is that they get something
in excess of £l5O a day as license fees from Christian
Moses, and, usually, entrance fees total very little short
of £lOO ; thus is the £240 disbursed in prize money pro-
vided before gates are opened.
* • * *
Finish of Belmont (W.A.) Cup at Perth, Satur-
day last, had a strong smack of Kogarah (Sydney) training
track about it. The St. Swithin gelding Pause, which
won, but was disqualified for weighing in 2Jlb. above the
71b. overweight declared before starting, belonged, not
long since, to Sydney bookmaker Jack Beales, and the
while was prepared by Kogarah trainer Dick O’Connor.
Little Mary, which ran second, and was awarded the prize,
had also been in a Kogarah trainer’s charge for some
time, and more than once brought joy to the heart of
the bejewelled through winning an important event
when least expected to by those most interested.
* • * *
Possibly betting is less extensive in Queensland
than anywhere else the continent over: Queensland
Turf Club paid a tote tax of about £539 in connection
with recent summer meeting, but its profit totalled only
£370.
• * * *
How they do it in different States. Victorian
Gaming Act provides punishment for the Christian Moses
who makes a bet with a female. In Westralia the way is
smoothed and otherwise cleared, so that women may
secure tote tickets without risk of having a hat feather
disarranged, or a dress the least bit crumpled.
* * * *
W. J. Budge, rider of Jack Donaghue, winner
of first Bathurst (N.S.W.) Cup, 51 years ago, is now 73
„„„ ind living at Cohomia Creek, near Bathurst
KKk SnlO years of the “ allotted span,"
hut iockeys in hjs day didn’t try to make themselves
weeds, in spite of Nature, by sweating 12
fhe dav before a race in a Turkish bath.
Neither was their remuneration equal to the cost of the
“ good time” most present-day nders indulge m when
funds are flush. Budge celebrated the 50th anniversary
of his marriage last week. Mrs. 8., still hale and hearty,
is four years her husband’s junior.
* * * *
TTntries for A.J.C. autumn meeting are at least
satisStonu Dfncaster Handicap has enticed 98-12 less
than last Vear’s total, but the shortage is nearly made up
bv nominations for Sydney Cup, which reach 72-six in
excess of the number received 12 months ago.
* » * *
Published statement that crack M.L. youngster
Flevation bv San Francisco-Step Feldt, will visit Sydney
next autumn, has strong endorsement in the fact that he
Ts among entrants for Doncaster Handicap. Contended
that Elevation has never had a superior among Maoriland
colts and his manner of winning Palmerston North
penalty, Elevation is said to have lost 20 lengths at the
start and looked hopelessly out of the hunt, but, laying
his ears back, he fairly flew over the intervening ground,
and streaked along the straight at such a remarkable
clip that he landed the money half a length to the good in
lmin. 17sec.-a wonderful performance, weight and dis-
tance lost considered. Given a fair chance by the A.J.C.
handicapper, it will be interesting to note at what price
Christian Moses will be prepared to do business about the
visitor. # » *
English turf figures for last year are to hand.
Maoriland jockey L. Hewitt had 165 mounts and won 15
times. Victorian F. Bullock was successful in SO of 215
races and Sydney’s little ’un, F. Wootton, finished
thirteenth in the winning list with 39 firsts m 282
starts. Ex-Svdney trainer-owner, R. Wootton, gathered
13 races, in connection with which prize money totalled
£2741. #
The sporting Briton has endured a nasty shock.
Burns, the Canadian fighter who passed out Australia’s
Bill Squires t’other day, journeyed to the Condon
National Sporting Club, last month, to fight the English
heavy-weight champion, Moir. Moir was carved up in
workmanlike style, and the visitor’s magnificent rmg dis-
play gave nothing but satisfaction to such of the 1000
spectators as hadn’t backed the other man. But
what the spectators could not stand was Burns atti-
tude.” To begin with, he was too exasperatingly cool.
Moir, immediately before the event, was duly excited, and
showed it; not so Burns, who lounged by the ropes talking
indifferently to his friends as though the fight were some-
one else’s altogether. This was a circumstance, however,
to what occurred next. Calmly, solemnly, Burns stripped
and stood on a chair to be photographed. A hum of dis-
gust went round the club. Just as calmly and just as
solemnly the Canuck next got down and demanded that
the stake-money (£1000) should be produced for his in-
spection, and handed to the referee. After a horrified
pause at the introduction of these sordid business details
at so inspiring a moment, his request was granted.
Then, having firmly, but still with the same infu-
riating quiet, made his final arrangements con-
cerning gate money and cinematograph commis-
sion, Burns faced Moir, played him genially for
10 rounds (purely for cinematograph purposes,
apparently, since it is agreed on all sides that he could
have outed the soldier at any stage of the fight), and
then gave him the cheerful dispatch, and —still phleg-
matic —went home to bed. London Sporting Times wails
loud and long at this hideously “ unsportsmanlike ” con-
duct, and asks bewilderedly “ What is boxing coming
to ? ” The answer is that, whatever boxing may be coming
to, a satisfactory measure of horse-sense is coming to the
boxers. Burns’"action over the stake and other money
was exactly comparable with that of a K.C., who m
certain cases insists that his pay shall be put up before
he goes into court.
6 * * * •
One of the most fiercely-contested fights seen
in Melbourne came off on New Year’s Eve. It was im-
promptu and unofficial. The contestants were a well-
known pro., who is a scientific expert, and a bullock.v
street fighter who is in the bottle-o business, but
has figured in the ring. The pair came together in the
course of some festivities, and bad language led to grievous
assault. A policeman broke in on the first round, and
the elements of battle were scattered, but came together
again. The pugs and their supporters sought the seclusion
of a local churchyard, and there a gory battle, that tore
up or wore dow’ii about half an acre of well-kept lawn,
was fought to a finish. The fight was “all in,” bar
boots, and nearly ended when the tough got a strangle-
hold on the pro. The latter freed himself with a mouth
gouge, however, and outed the natural fighter in the 11th
round, just as a horrified clergyman and a hysterical
church caretaker arrived on the scandalous scene.
* * * *
“ Scutum ” • In reply to “ Specs ” (B. 2/l/’08) re
King, the Leicester pro. " The real reason of his non-
inclusion in the English team probably lies in the fact
that his batting average last season for 40 innings was 18.
Crawford’s was over 30. In bowling King was more of a
success, though “ Four Eyes ” had a better record even
in that department. Both Fane and Young averaged to
with the bat, and as the latter is the reserve wicket-
keeper, how, in the name of thunder, can it be claimed
that King is worth the other three together ?


KUGELMANN’S
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
fl TREE
/ SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
li. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Here's a Bargain!
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT-
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch O /
Post Free, *5/ “
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE,
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Illustrated Price List Free.
V
Pale Blue Bead Necklets, 1/- Each.
The very Newest Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock.
jpF" Write early if you wish to secure one.
MILLERS FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mention The Bulletin.
Also a« Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Joe Darling, who has dropped quietly, and
apparently at his own wish, out of the post of
selector of Australian cricket teams and captain
of them when selected, is sticking to business
these times. His sports-outfit shop in Adelaide
was managed by an understudy during Darling’s
frequent absences in England or on his Tasmanian
sheep run. Now the understudy, disappointed
(it is said) of a partnership, has started a vigorous
opposition establishment; so the veteran may be
seen behind the counter from morning till night,
keeping his threatened business connection to-
gether.
73
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
TO SAWMILLERS.
TWO HUNDRED MILLION FEET OF
RIMU, NEAR WELLINGTON I
200,000,000
feefc Rimu
(chiefly), in
New Zealand,
near City of Wellington, FOR SALE on a
Royalty Basis. Five miles from Upper Hutt
Railway Station, on Main Road. Railway
freight to City 1/1 per 100. Excellent timber—
clean, medium size ; high, but easy logging
country. Wellington City and locality sure
market for whole output.
Sawmiller must provide and erect his own Mill
and Plant to cut ten million per annum. Vendors
to put up bridge over Hutt River, and open
up about six miles of tramway on a 1 in 25 grade
(formation only) to give access to heart of bush.
.Twenty years license. Full cutting must begin
within one year.
Strong individual or company who will handle
whole proposition with modern machinery and
large output preferred. Upset Rimu Royalty
1/6 per 100. Net average profit to miller should
exceed 3/- per 100.
Fuller particulars and plan from undersigned.
Prompt application necessary.
Apply by letter onIy—
“RIMU COMPANY,”
o/o Charles Haines, Box 476, Wellington, N.Z.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
The
CITY MUTUAL
PipF INSURANCE COMPANY
I I |\U LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GBIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
F" TES. Fo dbv all ChnmitU.
AN UNPARALLELED BARGAIN
. . THE CHAMPION . .
SPECIAL SPORTING GUN
The Cheapest and Best Double-Barrelled
12-Gauge, Central-Fire, Breech-Loading
Gun in the World.
Carriage Paid.
Four
Guineas
With a Serviceable GUN-CASE FREE
to Early Purchasers.
sporting man who r«-a<ls the following description
of the Champion Special Sporting Gun will be convinced
that this is the Greatest Bargain ever offered. It is a
double-barrelled breech-loader, with genuine twist barrels,
left full choke, right modified choke, top lever action, re-en-
foroed concuve side-gripping breech, engine-turned extended
rib, double-bolt and Greener cross-bolt, low circular hammers
out of line of sight, solid strikers, rebounding locks, best
case-hardened mechanism and handsome blued mountings,
patent chequered spring fore-end, best heart-walnut stock,
highly polished, with chequered pistol grip and vulcanite
heel-plate. Weight about 71bs. Gun experts will appreciate
the greatly increased strength and durability imparted by
the Greener Cross-bolt through the extended rib. This
considerably enhances the value of the gun, and indeed makes
it equal to any £lO weapon, while the style and finish and
its many modern improvements compare favorably with the
most costly guns. Each gun has been thoroughly tested,
all the parts bearing the Government proof marks. Any
make of 12-gauge central-fire cartridges, that are stocked by
storekeepers everywhere, will suit this weapon. There can be
no doubt that the Champion Special Sporting Gun is the
Greatest Bargain ever offered—a marvel of cheapness when
the high quality of the weapon is considered. You may
think it too cheap to he good, so, to show our perfect confi-
dence in the excellence of the gun, you may have a week’s
trial of it, and, if you are not thoroughly satisfied, you may
return the gun and have your money back in full. You have
never before had such a chance of a magnificent and stylish
weapon at such a marvellously low price, and, as a further
inducement to send us your order promptly, we will give with
each gun sold within two months from the date of this
paper a serviceable tanned-canvas gun case, with cartridge
pouch, strongly bound, with leather straps and handle. To
obtain this concession you must mention this paper when
ordering. Send your order with £4 4s. by postal money order
or cheque (with exchange added and crossed London Bank of
Australia) in registered letter to
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A
POLICY FOtt THE COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
Amusements.
»T HE ATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY AFTERNOON at 2 o'clock sharp,
Last Performances of the Famous Dream Play,
BLUE BELL IN FAIRYLAND.
TTTT EVERY EVENING at 8 p.m.
JULIUS KNIGHT and OLA HUMPHREY in the
Picturesque Romantic Play,
the scarlet pimpernel.
Prices as Usual.
Plan at Elvy’s.
H ER r.. l l^* JESTY ’ S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of the ever-welcome and
popular organisation,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In their Latest and Greatest Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
\AI ONDERLAND CITY, „ „
ww (THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
BONDI.
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON
FREE ATTRACTIONS UNENDING.
SEN SATION MIRTH S PECTACLES
FREE CIRCUS FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE REGAL CONCERT BAND
Something Doing All the Time.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
w OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Morning Papers.
Adults, 6d.—To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, 3d.
/CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction of Edwin Geach.
EVERY EVENING.
FRANK
PRONOUNCED SUCCESS o
THORNTON
AND HIS NEW LONDON COMPANY
in
WHEN KNIGHTS WERE BOLD.
Prices—s/-, 3/-, 2/-, and !/• Plan at Elvy’s.
DAL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON and JOHN F. SHERIDAN’S
Mammoth Spectacular Drury Lane Pantomime,
CINDERELLA.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, and 1/-. Booking Fee, 1/- extra.
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
The Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES (“ T&e Best of All ”).
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
TIVOLI T H E A T R E, S Y D N E Y.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
World’s Champion Club Swinger, TOM BURROWS, in
his Brilliant Club Swinging Specialty.
HERBERT LA MARTINE, Clever, Eccentric Legmania
Artist, Expert Baton Spinner, and Vocalist.
EDWIN BOYDE, London’s Celebrated Comedian.
THOS. E. FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
THE FOUR EUGENES, The Incomparable and Perfect
Aerial Gymnasts.
TOM DAWSON. RAY and CALDEN.
OPERA HOUBE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicial Artists.
THREE SISTERS KLOS, Skilful Daring Aerialists Extant.
THREE CUNARDS, Expert Dancers.
ARTHUR CROXON, Comedian Mimic Monologue Artist.
MADAME RHODESIA, Society Ladv Juggler.
TERRY and BENTLY, Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. £3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING. J
GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
EIUMPTY DUMPTY.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, BERT BARTON,
HARRY PHYDORA, FLORENCE VOUNG,
MAUDE THORNE, IRENE DILLON.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
Amuaisjnomtp,
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn's Powerful Co.,
including' HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH, in
HER LOVE AGAINST THE
W O P r, I I The Dramatic Rage of -the
Jlt UD. last London Season.
Prices 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. HERBERT FLEMMING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
OLIVIA,
A Dramatisation of “ The Vicar of Wakefield," by
arrangement with the executors of the late Sir Henrv
Irving. J
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
v\ / 'RTH’S OLYMPIA
** T EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THEB O E P S I LL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
B IJ °V,T HEATRE ’ MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee : Mr. Wm. Andkrsojs.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
COMPANY in the Great Dramatic Success,
HER LUCK IN LONDON.
Magnificent Scenery by Rege Robins.
Pricesr-Es., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s.
Voig'tlander’s
Binoculars.
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINCTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
f
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is infl animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
| which lead to the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
nil
I
K
•m
Wv.
v.
Vi.
%
w
TO
KEEP
2
RIGHT
THE
k
V.
A
fa
y
V/
/1
//
L /
//
s:
r
a
»)
g
R


SEL
Our Mail Order Department makes it easy to shop from any distance.
No matter where you reside, you are perfectly safe in doing business
witb us by Mail. • • • • Absolute satisfaction guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOTUET MIRROR,
Silver-PkAed, Richly Embossed.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
FREE CATALOGUE
On t equest we will gladly send
you our Illustrated Catalogue POST
FREE to any address. Write for a
copy. It’s yours for the asking.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Black Morocco Leather,
Silk Lined.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/,
I
A. SAUNDEfeS.
LADY’S SOLID SILVER PURSE and CARD-CASE,
Handsomely Embossed.
With Solid Silver Extension Frame; size, sin x 3in.
Post £3. Pree.
Other Styles, £2/5/, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/-
FREE CARRIAGE
Our system of FREE CARRIAGE on
all goods to any part of Australasia
means a big saving to you. Goods
packed to ensure safe delivery.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHAIN PURSE,
Seal Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Lock,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles.
Post 10/6. Free.
Other styles,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER, Solid Silver,
Crystal Glass Roller.
Post 7/6. Free.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH,
Buckskin, Silver
Shield, Rubber Lined.
Post 4/6. Free.
Ither styles, 5/6. 6/6, 7/6, 10/.
JB
SB
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET POMADE POT,
Silver Mounted, Cut Glass.
Post 7/6. Free.
Larger, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
NAIL FILE, Solid Silver,
Steel Blade.
Post 3/6. Pree,
Glove Hook, 3/6.
111111 l
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome TOILET SET, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed,
Finest Quality Bristles, complete in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
Post £lO. Free.
Other styles, £2/10/, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/ 10/, £7/10/, £lO, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SWAN PINCUSHION,
Solid Silver, Velvet Top.
Post 5/6. Pree.
Other styles, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
r rrr-
A. SAUNDERS.
SILVER DORCAS THIMBLE,
Steel Lined.
Post 3/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Black Morocco, Leather Strap PURSE,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 8/6. Free.
Other styles, 4/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/0.
'■'t'-'f!'.-—'■'i
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver, Richly
Embossed, Fine Bristles.
Post 10/6. Free,
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK INKSTAND, Polished Nickel Mounts,
Crystal Glass Bottles, Solid Oak Base,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver Mounts and Screw,
Amber Stem.
Post 12/6. Free.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver Mounted.
Post, 15 0. Free
Other Styles, 15/6, 18/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S POCKET-BOOK. Black Morocco, Silk Lined,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 12/6. Pree.
Other styles, 5/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD GLASS, Rapid Adjustment,
Large Field, with Sling and Case.
Post £2. Pree.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 30/.
„ A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH. Solid Nickel Highly
Burnished, Badger Bristles.
Post 5/6. Free.
Other styles. 7/6, 8/6, 10/6. 12/6.
_ .
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver,
Embossed Handles, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Post 15/6. Free.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts.
Post 8/6. Eree.
Other styles, 6/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOLID SILVER CLOTH OR HAT BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Long Bristles.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other styles, 5/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
<£* Z-(3
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S COLLAR STUD BOX, Pure
Silver-Plated, Pierced Design.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco Covered,
Silver-plated Mounts.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
Qeorge-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


“ f LIES
cAmv
DISEASE
The COMMON
HOUSE FEY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
>
ss
<S>
/Evfery Fly is 6,
M&jv Killer
At He Art.”
IX S hairy body carries both disease
and death. Having its origin in
filth, it brings with it the ba&eria
which breeds in filth. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over the food of the table, flying from the lips of the sicK to
healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
The high mortality among children in the congested
districts of a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
living rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
the fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when the
flies abound.
Is the Greatest KILLER
of FLIES other Insects.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious*
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale :
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug Cox.
SYDNEY.


Father, Mother, and Two Girls
Covered with an Ugly, Pimply
Rash —Baby Covered from Crown
to Sole —Thought She Would Die
—Tried Every Kind of Ointment.
AT LAST COMPLETELY
CURED BY CUTICURA
“Myself and two little children were
covered with a red pimply rash, and its
was so itchy. I had tried every oint-
ment it was possible to get. Until I
tried the Cuticura Ointment, it was the
first relief we got. I was afraid to go
near a doctor for fear of him making
a fuss, as of course I knew it must be
infectious, for I took it first, then one
little one, and then the other, and finally,
my husband. I used about twelve or
thirteen boxes Cuticura Ointment, but
that wasn’t much considering all I had
to do with it. My own arms and be-
tween my fingers, on front of shins and
between my toes, were completely cov-
ered with an ugly, itchy rash, and my
youngest little girl was covered from
crown to solo. I thought sho would
have died. She was (inly a year and
two months at the time. My eldest
wasn’t so bad, but bad enough. Thanks
to the Cuticura Ointment, we are com-
pletely cured, and I shall recommend
the Cuticura Remedies to my friends.
Mrs. D. M. Grieve, Donaghmore Co.,
Tyrone, Feb. 12 and Feb. 19, 1906.”
DISFIGURING
Humours, Eczemas, and Itchings
Cured by Cuticura.
The agonizing itching and burning
of the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and crusting of scalp, as in scalled
head all demand a remedy of ex-
traordinary virtues to successfully cope
with them. That Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, and Pills are such stands proven
by testimonials of remarkable cures when
many remedies and even physicians
have failed.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour ot Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
A Co., Sydney: Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta: Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
aar Post-free. Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
The Bushman.
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
—POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA—
Lever
14/6.
'JpHIS is the ideal watch for country use. Yod
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas, We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is a polished steel LEVER Watch, with a fully
jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
can have the case either NICKEL or GUNMEXAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will be of interest to you.
Watch
14/6.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
115,000
The Wayback Series,
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
Australian Mutua Provident Society.
HUSI For Life Assurance on iHe Maine,
HAS”MONEY TO MND »
s«^s^!ffisra£as»«g
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during y y , _ WaJker Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
DiRECTORS-The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator theH . Hon F E winchcombe, M.L.0. ;
Short Esq.: James Burns. Esq.; The Hon. R. J. rd Teece F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. Generai Manager and Actuary . ■ ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ■ —: ■
Notice the Dainty Lines
of this Lady’s Shoe.
It is an aristocrat among its kind —the sort of shoe
that sets off a shapely foot and gives a stamp of
distinction to the wearer. As shewn in the picture,
it comes in patent leather, goloshed, with high
Wurtemburg’ heel and Ribbon Ties. The same shoe
may be had in Glacie Kid from
Postage in Victoria, 9d.,
to other States, Is.
21 1-
Send for our Booklet “ Shoelight.'
L EE^?t G s S tor E s
Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street,
Prahran j 1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
TRADE.
r That Mark Means Merit,
and will be found on every component part of
YOUR BICYCLE
if it is built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings
It is a guarantee of quality —it means that every
part which bears it has been designed by men of
long and wide experience in cycle component
construction—that the material used has been selected with the
utmost care—and that none but the finest workmanship has been
employed in its manufacture. It can only be found on genuine
B.S.A. productions, and its value is emphasized by the fact that
imitations are constantly being sold and described as B.S.A.
PATTERN.” That means nothing, and every
cyclist should beware of being misled by such a
description. Look for the mark insist on its being
there —otherwise disappointment and dissatisfaction
are bound to follow. Send for B.S.A. Handbook it
is free and will interest you.
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
BIRMINGHAM SMALL ARMS CO. LTD*
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne.
A
GRIEF WRECKED SYSTEM.
HARROWING TALE OF DESPAIR. LOSES MEMORY AT TIMES.
Clements Tonic
WORKS A WONDERFUL CHANGE.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
So many go on suffering year by year through
lack of serviceable information, it is deemed ad-
visable to place before the public the story of Mrs.
Mary Janeßudd, of 38 Young-street, Redfern. so
that a salutary lesson may be learned. What
Mrs. Budd said to our special was this :
“It is now eight years since my husband died,
a calamity that took place when we had been
living in this house nine years, so you see I have
been residing here a good while. ”
“ Yes,” assented the reporter. “ I believe you
are an old resident of these parts ? ” .
“ I was born in Bourke-street, and have lived m
this locality all my life. But, to go back to my
story. It was not long after my great bereavement
that I became a total wreck. The blow nearly
killed me, and for a good while I was really
stupefied with grief. For some considerable time
my memory was completely lost, and it was im-
possible for me to concentrate my mind for a few
minutes upon any subject. When my dazed con-
dition passed away it was then that I realised how
terribly my whole system had suffered, a fact
which dawned upon me as I stood at the table one
day feeling so ill that I did not think I would live
till the morrow. For my own part, I did not care
what happened, but I thought of my three little
children, and said to myself : ‘What ever can I
take to do me good for their sakes ? ’ ”
“ Was that the first time you thought of taking
anything ?”
“ It was the first time I thought of acting on
my own judgment, the reason being that I was
under a doctor for some length of time, and his
treatment hadn’t benefited me in the least.”
“What did your medical attendant say was
wrong with you ? ”
“He told me I had taken my afflictions in-
wardly, and that my nervous system was in a very
weak state. I knew that well enough, unfortu-
nately, for I could not even bear to hear the
children talking, their voices got on mv nerves so,
and if a tap came to the door I nearly fainted with
fright. I hadn’t the least desire for food, and I
think one of my greatest afflictions was my in-
ability to get to sleep. For four years I did not
know what it was to sleep properly for one night.
It was usual for me to remain awake till about 3
or 4 o’clock in the morning, and then dose off till
half-past 5, when I always awoke with a start, and
would get no more sleep till next morning. And
the dreams I had each time I slept—they were
awful.”
“ You must have lost weight during your
illness?”
“Oh ! I was ghastly. My bones were almost
protruding through my skin, and anybody seeing
me could not have thought otherwise than that I
would never get better again. I really thought 1
was doomed to die, and feel sure I would have
been dead long ago ONLY FOR CLEMENTS
TONIC, WHICH WAS THE LAST MEDI-
CINE OF ALL THAT I TOOK. A friend often
used to say, * Why don’t you try some Clements
Tonic ?’ but I always postponed doing so ; but at
last I thought that as I had heard so much about
it, and nothing else could do me any good, I would
give Clements Tonic a trial. This was the decision
that I came to the day that I stood at the table
feeling that I could not last another twenty-four
hours, so what better reason than that could I have
for saying that Clements Tonic saved my life?
You must understand that I was quite incapable
of doing any work, and that it was a common thing
for me to be in bed a fortnight at a time, utterly
unable to attend to anything that required seeing
to, so when Clements Tonic began to put a little
life and strength into me you can imagine how
thankful I was for it. And weren’t the neighbors
surprised to hear that I had taken a turn for the
better ? My word, it was a matter that astonished
nearly the whole of Redfern. But what a relief
it was to have my headaches ease off after suffer-
ing so long with them ! And wasn’t I glad to feel
that Clements Tonic was also doing good to my
nervous system ? Why, I had only been taking
that remedy a few weeks when I could stand noises
of any kind without wincing, and already I was
getting more sleep than I had had for years.”
“Did you feel more refreshed after it than
formerly?”
“Oh ! yes; much. The reason why, I suppose,
was that I did not dream at all, so both my brain
and body were resting all the time, and when I
awoke 1 felt so fresh and lighthearted—no nasty
taste in the mouth as before, a clean tongue, and,
my word, what an appetite for breakfast I had !
Clements Tonic did make me eat and no mistake,
and my nerves were getting stronger and stronger
as the days went by. Eventually my old fears and
imaginations died right away, nothing more
troubling me, and all this wonderful change was
entirely due to Clements Tonic. Oh ! I have
thanked God thousands of times that I was guided
to take that remedy, and I am so anxious that
other sufferers may regain hope by hearing of my
cure. But Clements Tonic served me well in other
ways. It put an end to the giddy feelings I used
to have, removed the swollen feeling from my
eyes and the suffocating sensations from my chest,
then, finally, built up my strength so perfectly
that everyone could see my health was thoroughly
regained.”
“May I publish your remarks?”
“I gladly give you permission to publish them
in any way.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MARY JANE BUDD, of No. 38 Young-s reet, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
iillness and cure by Clements Toi/ic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my statements—
;which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
(believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. (Sgd.) MARY JANE BUDD.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern this twenty-seventh day of August, one thousand nine hundred and four
•before me - THOS. CADDY. J.P.
The Inky Way.
Charters Towers (Q.) Telegraph has started a “Press
Matrimonial Agency,” or “ Bureau of Matrimony,” its
object being to supply Bill of Wayback with a wife to
order, and the languishing town girl, who has yearnings
tow;ards the rural simplicity of a bark hut or the
magnificence of a squatter’s mansion, with a husband
according to specifications. Here is some of the
prospectus:
“ We recognise that in North Queensland there are not
many chances of introductions for suitable couples, so we
will try to bring them together.
“Just jot down your requirements and address your
letter to the Editor. He wants to see everybody fixed up
and settled down happily.
“ The man out West who desires to get a bride to grace
his bush home and cheer up his loneliness has only to
communicate with us.
“ The man in town who has his eye on a bush girl should
drop us a line. We will guarantee that the bush girl will
see it. ;
“ North Queensland requires more matrimony. There is
not sufficient of it; and the Telegraph has determined
to help it along and to people the North with a happy
and prosperous race.
“ In order to encourage marriages, and as a mark of the
esteem in w'hich we hold the brides and the bridegrooms,
the Editor will present the wedding rings to the first
three couples married through this agency.
“ Be brief in your communications, and do not expect
to reach perfection. There are no men or women perfect
in this world.”
Applications are already tumbling in on that enter-
prising editor. For instance :
“ ‘ Widower’: I am 46 years old, a German ;my wife
has been dead about seven years, and I have two grown-
up boys. I have cattle and horses, and I have got money
in the bank. I have a good selection. Would like to
meet a woman with a certain amount of capital about the
same age. Certain marriage with a suitable mate. Good
home provided. Would like to see prospective partner.”
He would like to see his prospective partner. Good
heavens ! —how particular these Northerners are getting !
The Editor adds : “ To show the success of the scheme,
we need only state that * Louisiana ’ received upwards
of 40 applications, and, we believe, intends to give her
hand and heart to one man. ‘Ruby’ has been fixed
up, and we may be able to make the announcement of
an engagement next week. Others have received genuine
offers, but all our correspondents are careful to avoid non-
genuine applicants.”
The Gundagai Times (N.S.W.) is now celebrating its
jubilee. It is the oldest paper in Riverina, and one of
the three oldest papers south of Sydney. It was estab-
lished by J. B. F.lworthy, father of the present proprietor,
in 1858, under the title of the Adelong Mining Journal.
Two years later the name was changed to the Wynyard
Times ; later on it was the Tumut and Adelong Times ;
and in 1868 it became the Gundagai Times. Very few
country journals remain in the one family for half a cen-
tury ;in fact, not very many live half a century. The
curious fashion in which the old paper’s name has wan-
dered about indicates how the centre of prosperity
drifted from place to place in the auriferous days. One
week a place was worth naming a big paper after ; next
week, or next year, nobody would call his dog after it.
* * # *
“ K. 0.” : Auckland Herald, a paper run on economical
and psalm-singing lines, is not beloved of Maoriland
pressmen, who play off on it all their spare jokes. Many
things have happened to the Herald at the hands of its
ribald and reptile contemporaries. It has been induced
to publish a bright original poem, which was really
an acrostic, stating that the editor was an ass.
It has been rung up late at night by a bogus
Consul with the news that a Swiss man-of-war was coming
out from its native mountains to help the Dominion Day
celebrations. It has been taken in with news of the
arrival of an imaginary steamer carrying six passengers,
whose names were Weir, Pulling, Ewer, Legge (2), Day.
And lately an even worse thing happened to the un-
popular journal, but that worse thing was unpublishable.
* * • *
“ Willy ” Hearst, the millionaire owner of newspapers,
who pants to be President of the U.S.A., is no shrinking,
inactive slouch when one of his journals is assailed. The
Evening Post (New York) came out with certain reflec-
tions on the manners, morals, etc., of Hearst’s N. Y.
American. Following are the concluding sentences of
Hearst’s signed editorial in reply :
“ The New York American finds suffering and relieves
it. . . . It gives news. . . . It tells the truth. Its atmo-
sphere is as moral as the cloister. No Wall Street runs it.
No trusts control it. It was born free and owns itself.
It is an American, and doesn’t wear spats; declines to
worry about the Prince, and incidentally isn’t caring a
continental what London thinks. While New York lasts
the American will last ; while New York grows the
American will grow ; and on that great final day when
this city and the world as well shall be consumed in fer-
vent heat, the American’s reporters, clothed in appropriate
asbestos, will be there collecting fullest details.”
* • * ■»
“ Hiphen ” : It is both amusing and instructive to see
how a news item, which the evening press booms in
heavyweight type, is passed over by the morning dailies.
Thus one reads in the Herald at night
APPALLING CATASTROPHE!
MAN FALLS OFF A KERBSTONE!!
Great Loss of Life !!!
Sunstroke or Beer?
Coroner says Both !!!
Death Instantaneous !!!
This is followed by four columns of detail, with photos of
deceased, his wife and family, the spot (marked with an X)
where he fell, scene after the accident, etc. And in the
morning one reads in an obscure corner of the Age or
Argus
“ A man slipped off the pavement on Monday last, and
died from his injuries.”
The way of a man with a tart is queer, but the way of a
reporter with a news item passeth the understanding of
Solomon, and even of John Madden.
THE GOLDEN VEIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some sing the songs of the storied past, and some of the
lights-o’-love;
Some chant refrains of the underworld, and some of the
world above.
Let each man sing of the things he feels in a voice that is
clear and strong,
That each shall achieve the work of his heart and add to
his nation’s song.
For there’s often a twist of the master-hand in the build
of a hodman’s brain
That his fellows may fail to understand if he speak not the
trite and plain;
And an inexpensive and puerile wit may gird at the
thought in rhyme,
Unaware of the message enwrapt in it, addressed to a
broader time.
For many a body is like a hearse —its passenger dead
within ;
And there’s many a mouth to gibe at a verse with a
sneering, cynical grin,
While its fellow, bred on the same coarse fare, must suffer
the jeers inane,
For beneath the grime of his sordid life is a shoot of the
golden vein.
Yea, a man may stand in a dingy bar and traffic in beer
and rum,
And the soul of the man go wand’ring far—though
the voice of his soul be dumb —
Apart from the barman’s meaner self, a thing of another
sphere,
Abhorring the stale tobacco smoke, and loathing the
smell of beer.
For there’s many a good sea-song been writ in a city
garret bare ;
And some have scaled the Olympian heights at the head
of a creaky stair ;
And some have sat on an office stool and dreamed of the
deeper things,
While the chrysalis-soul of the man’s desire bides ever
with folded wings.
Let each man sing of the things he feels, in a voice that
is sure and strong,
That each shall achieve the work of his heart, and add to
his nation’s song ;
That the dream of a miner touch the stars, and a barman
hear the bees.
And the cabman’s soul go out to the bush, and the pawn-
broker’s to the seas !
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


.
-
Write for Price List
and Catalogues
to tl\e Sole Agents,
LIPP PIANOS.
The genuine LIPP PIANOS
were first manufactured in
1834.
Since that date over 27,500
have been manufactured
and sold. The experience
gained in making that en-
ormous number is embodied
in the present day LIPPS.
These Pianos are world
famous for their Pure Tone
Quality, Delicacy of Touch,
and Great Durability*
They are guaranteed to
stand true as a rock in
any climate, and to give
perfect satisfaction.
Catalogues Post Free,
MELBOURNE:
ALLAN & CO. PROP.. Ltd.
270-8 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.
338 George Street.
STOMACH TROUBLES EASILY REMOVED
THE
LONDON LANCET
says :
“It is now recognised as a
valuable addition to natural
aperient medicines.”
HOWTO STIMULATE THE LIVER AND PROMOTE DIGESTION.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the digestive processes so perfectly that errors of diet are neutralised
thereby. It enables you to eat ■heartily without the dread of overfulness, flatulency, or acidity.
People of sedentary occupation require periodical stimulation of the liver, which plays a most important
part in digestion. The bile should be discharged into the intestine to mix with the food from the
stomach, otherwise constipation will be very pronounced. Perfect digestion means perfect action of
the stomach, liver, and bowels. Kutnow’s Powder acts concurrently on each of these forces of
digestion; hence its value in ensuring regularity. Another point of merit is its beneficial cleansing
properties ; a dose of Kutnow’s Powder cleanses the Stomach, pouses the Liver, frees the bile, and sets
the machinery in perfect working order.
THE BRITISH
MEDICAL JOURNAL
says :
It is gentle, effervescent,
and is a very efficient and
agreeable aperient.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“ Wellesley, Church Lane,
“Highfield, Southampton.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publish-
ing my testimony concerning the excellent properties
of Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it
years ago. In my case it has proved to be an agree-
able and gentle aperient, cleansing the liver and
kidneys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of pain
or discomfort, and regulating generally the whole
organic system.
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN. 1
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD
The Genuine and Original Xutnow's Powder
can be had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the world. See that the fac-simile
signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER
A POPU LAR NOVELIST
i WRITES:
f “ 31, Gatton-road, Bristdl,
“ August 14th, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs,I—EVr 1 —EVr a considerable period I -suffered
from severe headache and mental depression, no
doubt accentuated by my sedentary occupation as a
novelist, but I now al ways fly to Kutnow’s Powder
when I feel an attaclk imminent, which never fails
to afford instant and pleasurable relief. It truly is
a marvellous and efScacious (remedy, and I do not
wonder at its enormous sale.—Yours faithfully,
"‘FEED LUDLOW.”
WELL-KNOWN
BARONESS
writes:
“Albion House, Send-hill,
Gibraltar South,
“ 12th Jan., 1906.
“The Baroness von Gausage
begs to inform Messrs. Kut-
now that she is entirely satis-
fiied with their excellent Kut-
now’s Powder, and has recom-
mended the same to many of
her friends.”
REV- E. LANCASTER
WRITES :
“ The Parsonage, Tsomo, Transkei, Cape Colony,
“January 22nd, 1906.
“Sirs, —I am most pleased and perfectly satisfied with
the results of using Kutnow’s Powder, and shall in future
never be without it. My little children, too, have also bene-
fited by using it, and, being so pleasant to the taste, they
quite enjoy it.—l remain, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) EDGAR LANCASTER.’’
NURSE BOGLE
WHITES : >
•t i-
. d
“ 37, Hill Top Mount, Leeds, , *,
“ Yorksfiire.
“Dear Sirs, —Before I ever heard of Kutnow’s Powder I
suffered horribly with biliousness and indigestion, but since!-
taking the Powder regularly I can eat anything and enjoy it.
I have tried several medicines, but they have all proved
useless. —Yours faithfully,
“(Nurse) JANET BOGLE."
BRITISH
| V2CE-CONSUL
WRITES :
v? “ British Vice-Consulate,
Tarragona,
March 12, 1906.
' “Dear Sirs, —I am still using
Kutnow’s Powder, and find
same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised
to do.— l remain, yours truly,
j “JAMES HAWES,
“British Vice-Consul.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER GOVERNS THE STOMACH.
2-8


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
(Tons
Commander.
WILCANNIA .. 49531 W. G. Lingham
GEELONG .. 7954 J. E. Ilbery ..
♦COMMONWEALTH 661 UT. J. Hine ..
| Sails.
.. Feb. 7
.. Mar. 7
.. April 4
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. wnmm
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS « 'J.
THE
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Queensland |)ational Bank,
limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 1860.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital n n
Capital Paid Up .. - •• 4 13.296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59,000 J „
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,6-1 o U
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout
iand. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR . .
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674— Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Offipb for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
The
Bank uf [|orth Queensland
x limited.
£700,000
370,000
(Established 1888.)
Authorised Capital ..
Subscribed Capital and Reserves
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERIQA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Manly.
Bank of Qeui Zoalood.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
£2,000,000.
£500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
fcs>
■!&
&
Free
r Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s/w.
||]ontdepieteO.«|.Co.,[;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mkkks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.)! Sir John Skk. K.C.M.G., J. J. Allkx,
Esa. J. Cami>bkli. Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbss’op, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Gbimwadk,
GeneraHlanager for Australia : JOHN OOODWYN A I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYUNLi.
The trustees, executors
and
agency company limited
4tt Collina-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested ill Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. H. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : K. ; Mu.i iay
finiiib, Esq.,O.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Gnoe, Esq.;
Hon J M Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
Hon. J. M. t™ A * MKS borrow MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDSv” by Edward Dvson.
“ Bust book of Australian humor, 4s. Gd.
Shipping.
IV. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LEO YD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. Lonrton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY’ Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA I.lth FEBRUARY’.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 10th MARCH.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 7th APRIL.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
IAHI I'l'ICI). ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E C.
j 19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAM.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to sail about 22nd Januarj.
AFFtIC, to sail about 21st Februarj.
SUE VIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
FARES-Oapetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 j> Q
London •• •• 95 5 0 to 36 5 0
New \ork, &c. • • 0 u
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia. __
TH€ AB€RP€€N L!N€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN ..I A. Simpson
‘MARATHON .. IN. Allan ..
SALAMIS .. . 1 R. McKilliam
London
Cape or Durban
.. 1 Noon. Jan. 31
.. 1 Noon. Feb. 28
.. INo in. Mar. 27
• Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
From £57 ' .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
„ eur „ Ul „.„ .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyet/y and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
I HO LI PAY
TO
N. QDEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
V';£
ss
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
_ 5
&w-
J
%
m
m
7!
If
are
you
thirsty
v
«r
try a
*
glass
&
89
of
e
*
LIME
.Va
JUICE
*
. -■■•■'. . •
“ MONTSERRAT”
Lime J\iice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
MADE IN TWO KINDS -
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Ju ce.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
w
ANTED TO BUY.
THE TOBACCO COY. of S.A. LTD., Adelaide,
South Australia, are .. .
Buyers of Cigar and Tobacco Leaf.
Publications.
Translatedl French Novels (Some Illustrated).
Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue Free on receipt of 2£d. (letter postage),
A. DE SAILLE, 20 Rue de la Michodiere, Paris.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALLIIED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
The Magnificent New Twin-Screw Steamer
M ARAM A
leaves Sydney, March 16 ; Brisbane, March 18.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.VIPA IY OF 't.Z. LTD.
Mamisriiiy Agents, Georsre-street, Sydney.
L '.
sHi
Lit
-rirritr
QUEENSLAND BRANCH —
308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of coarse you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd*, 374 George St., Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, !i to 5 Beaconifield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rivHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lover than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Shipping*
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
1 (LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Yongala, Friday,
January 17.
S.S. GranCala. Saturday,
February 1.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, January 18.
S.S. Yongala, January 25.
Best and Cheapest lioute to Cold fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company s Office.
Cl S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGERIES JARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
F.— H. S.
Federal*Houlder«Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
“DORSET”
11,000 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 28th January.
~ ~ „ Melbourne „ Ist February.
Jt ~ „ Adelaide „ 4th February.
FOR
London and Liverpool
(via SUEZ CANAL).
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON, d
MANCHESTER V £49 10s. £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
and LIVERPOOL )
To be followed by other similar twin-screw steamers
every 28 days.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Managing Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 18.
BUNINYONG. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 25.
OOOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
February 1.
ADELAIDE 'V
ALBANY
BUNBUIIY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
BURRUMBEET, 5 p.in., TUES-
DAY, February 11.
BRISBANE A
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON >
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
January 18.
KONOOVVARRA, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, January 21.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 25.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
,«,l
f v
.< <•
l-1- -
■Mg
n"«>.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.


Not the /east of the many
Charms which attach
so/e/y to -
,'
I
The Largest Importers and Manufacturers of Photographic
Materials in the Commonwealth, and SOLE AUSTRALIAN
AGENTS for KODAK LIMITED.
49
ill
, W >
/s its Entire Simplicity from
Start to Finish.
\ youngsters can make as good Photographs as their parents or
» pastors, and the little lassie in her clean frock, or the replica of the
damsel in the fashion-plate can
DEVELOP THE FILMS IN DAYLIGHT
free from risk of stain to fabric or fingers.
In the two important features of Size and Price KODAKS offer a wide
field for choice, ranging in many patterns from the 24-inch square “ Brownie ”
for a few shillings to the Folding Pocket at an equally small
number of pounds sterling.
In all sizes and at all prices THEY ARE KODAKS, the Trade Mark
which stands for Sterling Value in every part of their construction, in every
point of their perfect adaptation to artistic Photography.
0
U
Proprietary Limited.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “The Block,’
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba,
You Want a Good Watch
THE ONLY THING YOU CAN PAY CASH
FOR, AND YET HAVE “ON TICK.”
B
7
Gentleman’s 10-ct. Solid Gold Hunt
ing Cased Keyless Elgin Lever Watch
Buy now, as the duty is up 10 per cent
Price, .£8 10s.
We show here some of the best and most popular
styles of Watches now made. They combine Neat-
ness, Elegance, Quality, and Strength. Send
your order now, you can't do better. Remember —
money back if the Watch you buy does not open
up to your satisfaction. You run absolutely no risk
when you deal with STEWART DAWSON & CO.
25Y£AR
m
This shows our 14-ct. Gold-
Filled Watch for Women.
Sound, Serviceable, and
worth three of any cheap all-
gold watch. JB4 10s.
DON’T
DEL A Y,
WRITE
TO-DA Y
TO
Our Special Thin Model Keyless Steel Crystal
Front Lever. The Best Guinea Watch in
Australia. £1 Is.
cflflANP CORNER , GEQRCF
/ JLX
I i
The Thinnest 12-Size American Watch
made. A 1 Elgin Lever Movement,
14-ct. Gold Case. For a man who
appreciates smartness this is the watch.
<£B 10s.
‘
Gentleman’s 25-year 14-ct.
Gold-filled Hunting Case
Elgin Lever Watch. Im-
mensely superior to a cheap
all-gold watch. £5 10 s.
This is a specially fine 10-ct.
Gold Full Hunting Elgin
Lever, and we can advise
any lady to wear it, as it is
good both in case and works.
Free and saie by post for
35 YEAR
WRITE FOR OUR
FREE
CATALOGUES.


"Dalli
For Household Use. —To use it is the best,
most simple and most comfortable way of
ironing. Independent of stove and gas, it can
be used anywhere. Non-Inflammable fuel
without noxious fumes. No risk from fire;
healthier and safer than any other iron.
Dallinette
(A Smaller “ Dalli.”)
For light work and travelling only.
For general household work use the “Dalli."
Having a larger ironing surface and greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Stocked by
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
OOO
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
td take, and, what is of the utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable, in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance of
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Brain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent or threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
J l antibilious pills” make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medicine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in completely curing the complaints
named.
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to
4 —more or less as required—taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as an
auxiliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
oOo
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. not
obtainable locally, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE.—The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular way that a far BETTER
result is obtained than from an ordinary
aperient.
The Standard Remedy which ha* outlived the Centune*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In uae since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
ZEISS
PRISM FIELD GLASSES
with Enhanced Stereoscopic Effect.
Ocular distance.
X 6,
£6
XB,
£6 10s.
Enlarged objective distance.
XI2,
£9 ss.
X 6,
Stalking:,.
£7 I Os.
NEW MODELS
for Army, Marine, Travel, Sport, Stalking.
Brilliant Definition Mechanical Precision
Great Light Intensity Stability
Extensive Field Tropics-proof
embodied in a higher degree.
Ask for Prospectus T 96.
Obtainable from all Opticians and from
CARL ZEISS, LONDON W.
Berlin
Frankfurt o. M.
Hamburg
St. Petersburg-
Vienna
JENA
29 Margaret Street.
Regent Street.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHCEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
amone wnom are
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Grocers and
Hardware
Dealers,
Sydney— Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St.;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St.;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &00. Ltd,
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y.,U.S.A.
c\J
V
\7
L
/
U
CTT. 1 : 11
"‘ Ti - Vrj
\
I Swallowed Drugs
enough to stock a chemists shop, and found myself worse
instead of better when I stopped them.”
That is the story we hear every day; that is what thousands of weak and
ailing men and women are doing to-day ; turning themselves into chemists’ shops,
ruining their nerves and stomachs with narcotics, stimulants and poisons, only
to find themselves worse in the end than at the start.
Sir Ashley Cooper, the famous English surgeon, says:
“The science of medicine is founded on conjecture and improved
by murder. Countless thousands drug themselves to death
annually. Electricity is the remedy provided by Nature.”
IT YOU are drugging and dosing yourself, STOP before it is too late ; stop poison-
ing yourself and give Nature a chance to cure you. If you suffer from Ner-
vousness, Vital WeaKness, Debility, Varicocele,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indigestion, Consti-
pation or any Chronic WeaKness or Ailment, use Nature’s
cure—Electricity as applied by the world-famous
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
and it will cure you if you are curable. Don’t waste time, don’t wait for the final
stroke of paralysis, apoplexy or heart failure which will put you beyond a cure, but
act at once! Electricity is nerve fooil, no disease or weakness can exist in a body that is plentifully supplied with it.
an ?. 11ln S man or oma n whom it will not benefit, and it can do no harm when applied with our Belt.
rni !! incy Bwv Stl mi 0r It * S durren^. 1 ? “ direct galvanic,” which passes through the body smoothly and evenly,
Hip nrrvpa hi vl talizmg thrill can be relt all through the body as it pours its life-giving power into
the nerves blood and tissues, building them up and driving pain, weakness and disease out of thl system.
_ 9rf _ Anfi r S ?i m 6Very C,vinze / countr y m the world. The thousands of testimonials we have received from all
w*. a^ d thC many y f 3 f S of , success we have had here > are absolute proof that Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is
tne standard. We have manv imitators wif nr» pmiaic << -r* ««
tVi t* cf an A nr-A • "V . ", ™ ~ ~ CUcIL XJI . LVAUJL/ilUgllllll S TLICCiriC Udt lb
the standard. We have many imitators but no equals. Don’t be misled by false “ Free Belt ” offers, or the extravagant
an impossible appliance as bait for a 20-guinea course of drugs. Don’t taKe drugs s use
it and you will have nothing to ret rrpt. n.i nvira, .... ti.: * 1
TrWiriiHt t^l ? se w * lo P rom ise . -"-1 a FpMUI .c *0 uau im * course or drugs. .Don't taKe drugs ; us<
Electricity alone as we apply it and you will have nothing to regret. Our prices are within the reach of all
We "have published an illustrated
booik whifih every man and woman
should reiad. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure ol all other treatments.
It gives the prices and all information about the belts. We will mail
it, together with some of our testimonials, kr.EE, post paid to all who
write us, and our specialists will give you a diagnosis of your case
free. iAll communications aire treated with strict confidence.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
Office hours—9 a.m. to 5 . jj p.m.
the McLaughlin po„ Dept. 10,
Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
R. CORCOnAN
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book, Testi-
monials and Price List.
Name
Address
#
#
'‘"{ONCfTOljn
It aets like a ehapm In
DIARRfKEA
M *
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA & -
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical * Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to ftlanftind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONS SUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA
'
S° ld by Chemists all over the W orld, in bottles , Is. \\d. ; 20z., 2s. 9c?. ; 40z., 4s. 6 d. each
CAUTION.
given
Elephant” b ° ttle ° f * GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant, on the wrapper, &c„ witt 10 ut which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Anstrtdmax Rocke, Tompsxtt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.


These delicious High-class Cigarettes are totally distind from any others obtainable.
CIGARETTES.
No. 555 (“) Astorias (r““L) De Luxe GL\ W ) No. 999 (<g£,)
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Manufactured in LONDON by ARDATH TOBACCO CO. at their “model hygienic factory.” —Vide Daily Press.
GBD
PIPES
C i i
are Smoked
all over
Australasia
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH [
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
HOLLO WATS PIUS
* ##v
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down " cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
s^*
❖
A
5t
Si
c
s>
<v
and OINTMENT
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy For
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing Hoarseness Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations Z The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE-S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Largo Sire, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally
NOTICE. Hearne s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A docs NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
rhild and the most ailed person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
Ik
miMIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIUIIIIIIimhnZT' .
/
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
The old Tory reverence for Propputy and
the same brand of disregard for human flesh and
blood die mighty hard. In a Christchurch (M.L.)
Court, the other day, two J.’sP. fined a farmer £5 for
a brutal assault on his daughter with a stockwhip.
The girl’s serious injuries were not denied—they
were too painfully apparent for that. Almost at
the same time, a tramcar-conductor at Auckland
was being sent to prison for two months because
he had sold a ticket a second time and robbed the
company of—twopence ! The magistrate reckoned
that sort of thing could not be tolerated, and
further reckoned he’d make an example of the
conductor, particularly as his Worship thought,
on no evidence at all, that defendant might have
been at the game before ! It doesn’t seem to have
occurred to this kind of magistrate that the con-
ductor might not have stolen before, and that the
farmer might have flogged his daughter previously.
A paltry fine for thrashing one’s daughter almost
to death in a fit of mad temper ; gaol for the man
who steals twopence from an English company,
which is notoriously trying to squeeze the last
farthing out of the Auckland public, and which
has been fined and condemned by the Arbitration
Court for the tactless and selfish manner in which
it treats its employees !
The somewhat valuable time of a Sydney
police court was taken up one morning last week
over a penny egg. A special constable of the
Railway service proceeded against a carter for ex-
tracting a new-laid egg, valued at Id., from a coop
of hens which he was taking from the parcels office.
The carter protested that the egg was his
lunch, brought from home. As the Railway
Commissioners decline any responsibility over eggs
kid bv chooses m transit, their representative
admitted that the penn’orth of loss didn’t fall on
them. Further, the magistrate couldn’t decide
whether the egg, if there was one in the coop,
belonged to the sender of the hens or the sendee,
seeing that neither knew of its existence. After
nearly wearing out its eye looking at the case, the
13ench gave it up and dismissed the carter with a
caution. It appears to be up to Chief Commis-
sioner Johnson, who was imported to settle
N.S.W. railway problems, to deal with the matter
in a bylaw prohibiting hens from laying on
Government railways—penalty, £2.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
S6e LEADING
HOUSE for
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP ...
CAN’T
B
BEAT
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib left
full right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 7lb. ;of 16-gauge, 6£ to 6£lb. ... OS.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiif.
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
V-v
m
FRENCH ftRT STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datk, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.Asy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 1* xci Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jos. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Agf. of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Oaiine
Wifll make your complexion
clear and beautiful.
Make a point of trying this great English
face cream. It removes the dust and dirt
that clog the pores of the skin and which
soap and water does not thoroughly remove.
It is free from dangerous mineral salts and
animal fat, which heat causes to go bad. It
does not grow hair.
If you use Oatine regularly, the dry Aus"
tralian climate will not cause your skin to
crack or peel and ruin your complexion.
Get a jar of Oatine to-day. However
trying the weather or fierce the sun your
skin will always be clear and healthy if you
use it. Men should use it after shaving.
Price 1/9 a jar at all chemists, stores,
throughout Australia. Larger size, four
times the amount, 3/3.
BEAD, MARK, LEARN
HOW
TO
LOOK
YOUNG,
--
TWAIN’S
HOW
NOT TO
GROW
OLD.
GREY HAIRS are quite in keeping with t' ° role played by the
GREAT Humorist. But ordinary men to retain their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty. Women
desire to retain their youth and beauty. Darken grey hairs with
LOCKYER’S res^er
In bottles 1/6, of all chemists and stores.
DYSON’S “Faet’ry ’Ands,” 4s: 6d.
lightful and wickedly true. I’* 1 ’*
‘De
C.
NEW Ciub Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
aw heel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
/all cyclists the world over
Sole makers :
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
Tshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
Britisb=flustralasian
Jv
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
PHrf* POST FREE, £1 per year,
l l ILC ”U* j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters rnay be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR.
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
GARMENTS.
The Healthiest and Most Comfortable Fabric for
the Australian Climate.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
CELLULAR OUTFITTERS
(Solk Agents inN.S.W.), 94 KINC STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect, or write for samples and
Illustrated Catalogue.


V '
SOUP
RLTB
☆liRO
V. *^>oos£l.. .IIW W«*£L£2S3
'in
, DON’T DIET.
It takes all kinds of food to
satisfy the demands of the
body. Bat all the wholesome
food you want and ensure its
perfect digestion and assimi-
lation by taking Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules after each
meal. By doing this you will
soon forget your stomach and
find you can go the whole
meal three times a day and
enjoy it as you did when a
healthy boy or girl.
Indigestion, heartburn or
other stomach troubles have
no terror for those who use
Df She Id on’s
Digestive
\ Tabules
Vilest u/kat'j/ou. eat
ASK YOUR CHEMIST for . . .
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hire, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
STUDY YOUR HEALTH. DRINK ONLY
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
By Appointment to
H.M. The King
and
H.R.H. The Prince
of Wales.
By appointment to
H.M. The King of
Spain and
H.M. The King of
Portugal.
“THE LANCET” of March 16th, 1907, says:—
“The definite proportion of phosphates in CEREBOS SALT adds
substances of DISTINCT DIETETIC IMPORTANCE.”
Agents—Harrison &= Attwood, Sydney.
m j
t, f
v
* mv y
i st p
nze
FAT
WHICH IS DESIRABLE IN A PRIZE PIC
IS NOT SO
IN A PROPERLY CONDITIONED
MAN OR WO MAH
'V
Fat People reduced to Normal!
Our marvellous treatment, ‘‘ Fateure, ” is curing thousands of obesity sufferers in all parts of Aus-
tralasia. “ Fatcure ” reduces excess weight by as much as five pounds a week, and even over a
pound a day in many cases. It is a purely vegetable compound, pleasant and agreeable to the taste.
Absolutely no harm can result from using “Fatcure.’*
This treatment is unique amongst anti-fats in that it contains absolutely no harmful nor deleterious
ingredients, and though it reduces weight rapidly, its use could not harm the health of even an infant. Its
purity, efficacy, and freedom from deleterious or harmful substances is absolutely guaranteed. Its use
.nvariably improves the general health, a general improvement becoming noticeable within a few days.
CALL, OR POST 2d. STAMP FOR FREE SAMPLE.
If you can call we will give you Free Sample, and weigh you privately. If not, write for Free Sample.
All correspondence is confidential, and samples and treatment are plainly wrapped so that contents of
package are not disclosed. “ Fatcure ”is put up in tablet form. Hours : 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street.
The Thunderstroke.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rfiE sunless shadow in the hall of pain.
Files of pale beds, pale brows, and bem
and broke.
I with the fever-bats within my brain
Since the down-rushing of the thunderstroke.
(/hosts ruffe faintly down the long grey floors,
A twilight creeps far-flooding on the walls ;
The vampires rock me through black corridors
Up swimming deeps, the red earth fails and falls.
Wild heights of a wild world I trod,
Where never life had been, nor God ;
Striding the fastnesses of dreams,
Lit by no sun or starry gleams ;
Up past the bottomless abyss
Of the tumultuous precipice ;
Above me frowned the peaks that curled,
Sheer on the outposts of the world.
In drear despite I stumbled hard
Through the lone darkness, evil-starred,
From gulf to gulf, and steep to steep,
In whose black throats the thunders sleep,
In whose ravines the tempests lie
When shouting come they home to die ;
So fearfully and crazed I fled,
Silent and swift, as one new-dead.
No sound of wind ; a dim lone vast
Of utter midnight overcast. . . .
Lo, a gaunt stallion silver-white,
And a great rider of affright,
And evil form, upon his back,
That urges on a lumbering pack
Of flame-mouthed hounds. . . . Ah, me, their eyes
At sight of me. . . their hollow cries !
At sight of me ! Their echoings
Shake through the gloom on roaring wings ;
Baying the prey, intent they loom
Head down upon the track of doom.
Fear-winged I fly ; my spirit reels
To hear them thunder at my heels,
Fain for my soul, when spent and cold,
I scream to feel their fangs take hold.
The stallion leaps along the hill,
The huntsman cries the hounds, and still
Before them all across the night
I race for life from death’s affright.
The nether peaks have sunk ; before,
The dizzy Alp rears evermore ;
And the hell-hounds behind me roll
For the sweet morsel of my soul.
Black gapes th’ abyss of sin, and dread
Threatens the black cliffs overhead.
Waked by the clang of mad pursuit,
The winds rush out in hot dispute.
Spent and forlorn, I mount and rise
Beneath the nearer-circling skies.
They climb with me ; and 10, I face
The yawning precipice of Space.
Behind, the cry of doom up-hurled;
Before, the chasm of the world.
They come, hot-eyed, and bared fangs red,
Nearer and near . . . The prey is sped . . .
The skies roar down ... I fall . . . and fall
Into the vast with one high call;
Down . . . down ... a cloud swings slow beneath,
Whereon I lie and dream of death.
So pillowed soft, and faint in peace,
I sail across uncharted seas,
Blown round the world’s encircling dark,
Safe in the slow wind-rocking ark.
Half wake, I know before me lies
The rapture of red-breaking skies,
When all this horror dream of mine
Shall fade before the dawn’s design.
So gently swung and gently blown,
I drift through the grave deeps unknown ;
Serene the time, the tide is fair,
And in my soul is little care.
Sudden the night pales ; while and near,
A belt of beach shines silver-clear.
The shore wind drives, the shore waves thrash
The sand ; and dawn leaps like a flash !
The amber sunshine flushed the floor, and spread
Along the walls above pale beds of pain ;
A breathless calm is swooning round my head,
And in niy tangled brain.
maoriland.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
Fish an’ Chips.
SMITHY THE LIAR’S YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IV’S er schooner, er pint’s no use ter me,
V T an’ stop yer flarin’ gramophone, Irish.
t ' j . . r .i
i am t ad er taste fer er month.
nr
~q r mie > blokes, oo started it ? Did I.
w ther flamin’ ’ell wos I ter know ? Ther long,
skitin , schemin’ cow ! Wait till I git Long Bob
1 down Cumberland Place. That’s the third time
’e’s jugg e d me
(o/t,, . , ’ . . , , . _. _
W ij , ar e 11 ‘ But er ead on lb Bisb ‘
ouldnt yers’ave done ther same? Jalal, the
irt y> yeller Syrian, wos too ’andy droppin’ ’is
bundle ter Long Bob. ’E put me aw’y erbout
that bike I shook. All ther blokes’ll tell yer. I
owed i-Kof c • , , , .
wed that Syrian one. Any’ow-wot ? ’E opened
, 1S sho P next night, did ’e ? Gam ! Yah, ’spose
er bandige roun’’s scruff. Serve’m
right I done it. ’Struth, w’en I sees ’im agen
e be bandiged fer good an’ ever. I’ll stop ’is
gab.
“There was only ther three ov us-me an’
J u Bb er an Cockie O’Malley. Cockie wos on ther
shick, tight as er fly. Two long beers filled
Jugger full o’ fight. We wos orf ther chain,
ready fer biz.
“ Down we goes ter Jalal’s, an’ orders fish an’
chips fer three. We timed Long Bob. It wos
erbout er quarter ter 12, an’ nuthin’ much wos
doin . Nobody wos roun’ Black Eagle, so we
strolls quiet ter Little Lon. We wos on er good
wickit. Jalal’s ken looked bright an’ daisy.
In we goes.
Hasan, ther little ratty ’awker, wos feedin’
ther, torkin’ Syrian ter Jalal. Two big Dutchies
orf the boat wos chewin’ ’couta, gruntin’ like
stuffed pigs. Carlo Verdi, ther Dago gun,
watched them Dutchies liker ferret. ’E meant
ter dig ’em owt later on. Carlo wasn’t eatin’ fish
fer fun.
We ad our fried fish. I know ’e kin cook
orlright. Too much ile on ther mullet. But we
didn’t want ’is fish, we was arter chips. D’yer
see ?
‘ ‘ Cockie tossed out some spuds, an’ cort Carlo
under ther ear. ’E’s cockeye, an’ ain’t respon-
sible. Ther Dago flared up like matches. ‘Be
kripe, I’lla keeleema you,’ ’e sez. There wos
only ther three ov us, but we didn't mind er
barney.
J u gg er told Jalal ’is fish stunk, an’ orter ’ave
been fried in Condy’s. Jalal looked nasty. Ther
big Dutchies lifted up blue saucer eyes ; they wos
gettin’ interested. We finished our chew.
“Cockie staggered ter ther counter; ’e wos
’arf sober be this. Jugger sez it wos my shout, an’
I reckoned Cockie should stand Sam. We argued
ther point. Jalal waited quiet, grinnin’ liker row
ov tombstones. Me an’ Cockie started er bit ov
er scrap. ‘ This lot’s on yer, Jalal,’ says Jugger.
‘ It’s up ter yer ter shout, damn yer. ’
“We edges ter ther door. Quick an’ lively
Jalal’s over ther counter, blockin’ ther exit. ’E
wanted coin ; we wanted biff, so Jugger in an’
plugs ’im. Cockie ’ooks roun’ ’is left at Jalal,
misses er mile, an’ biffs me on ther eye. ’E
opened it er beaut. Ther swellin’ aint gorn down
long. Things wos only middlin’.
“A big Dutchie sprung at Jugger. Five
seconds owted ’im. I landed ’im on ther skull.
I ’ad er rock rolled up. in me wipe, that’s orl.
’Struth, Hans wos stretched out on ther floor liker
dead w’ale. Cockie was gettin’ in some pritty
foot work w’en Han’s cobber, er big cove, with
blue anchors on ’is chiest an’ arms, lifted Cockie
and threw ’im over the counter inter ther fire-
pleice.
“Little Hasan screamed fer p’leece. Jalal
grabbed er piece ov firewood an’ dealt it owt as
’ard as Long Bob with ther baton. I seen Carlo
make fer ther till. ’E wasn’t with us. Ther giant
’offered liker stuck buff. ’E yanked Hans up—yer
carn’t kill them sailors with an axe—an’ Hans
made fer ther wood’eap an’ started slingin’ logs all
over ther shop. There was an ’ell over row.
“ Yers should ’ave seen me in ther thick ov it,
dealin’ owt stoush. We broke up their tables an’
chairs ; logs flew thru ther air ; Carlo whipped
owt er knife an’ ‘Letta me atta Smeethee’ ’e
screamed, gazin’ roun’, ’is eyes shinin’ like coals ;
Hasan kept up ’owlin’ ‘ P’leece, p’leece ’ ; Jugger
tried ter bash Plans with ther poker. Jalal grabs
er fryin’ pan, fuff ov ’ot ile, ther cowardly swine,
rushes up, an’ pours it down Cockie’s neck.
“Screams? They’d ’ave woke Fatty Pete,
the sleepiest trap on beat. I gits inter the mob
an’ drops me wipe, with ther rock in it, on
Jalal. Yer told me ’e wos bandiged? I done it,
the cow.
“ Ther big sailor swung er lucky one on ter
me, an’ I wos dazed in ther kokum.
“ ‘Nit, Shoeleather,’ shouts Jugger, ‘it’s Long
Bob.’ I ’eard ’im sprintin’ down ther lane.
There wos er scoot an’ scatter.
“Wen I got down Riffraff Leine me ’ead felt
’eavy as lead. I was on me pat. I wondered
wos Jugger an’ Cockie nicked. I wos safe,
any’ow. I put me ’and up ter me ’ead. It felt
all sticky. Under ther lamp-post I ’ad er look at
me finger. It wos red. Wos this ther end ov
me ? I’m orf fer repairs, I reckoned.
“ I made fer ther ’orspittle. It must ’ave bin
erbowt one. Never seen er soul, an’ there wos
er ’arf moon. Ther streets wos dead quiet. I
goes inter ther caselty room, w’en, lorblime, there
wos Jugger gettin’ bandiged an’ grinnin’ at me
liker bandicoot. ’E must ’ave bin slick. I noo
nuthin’ —didn’t know Jugger from er sheet ov
bark.
“ Young Sawbones gits ter work on me. Told
’im er bar ov iron fell on me w’en workin’ night
shift at ther tram station. ‘ Keep quiet, carn’t yer,’
’e sez, w’en I starts up, ’earin’ voices. It wos
Long Bob torkin’ down the passige.
“In comes Long Bob an’ ’is cobber, Dick
Richardson, with them two Dutchies an’ Jalal an’
Hasan. I never seen Carlo. ’E’s too cunnin’.
“ ‘ Dere ’e iz,’ screams Jalal, spottin’ us. Big
Hans rushes at Jugger, blood in’is eye. Long
Bob grabs me. I only wantid ter ’it Jalal one—
jist one. ‘ That’s Smithy ther Liar,’ sez Richard-
son ter ther mob. ‘ Very clever with ’is ’ands.’
“ ‘ Thort we’d catch ’em ’ere,’ Long Bob grins.
“ Ther traps cops me an’ Jugger. ‘ We’ve er
cab fer yers,’ sez Long Bob. ‘Come with us ter
ther watch-’ouse, an’ yer kin st’y orl night.’ Jalal
wantid ter cum, too, but ’e ’ad ter git stitched be
Sawbones.
“Jugger an’ me’s ’ooked owtside ter ther cab.
It wos ’ard moz. Jist as we wos gittin’ shoved
in, I seen er drunk with er red wipe on ’is ’ead
staggerin’ erlong ther fence ter ther ’orspittle
gates. ’Struth !it wos Cockie O’Malley. Larf !
It wos too damn funny. Cockie wos too shickered
ter know better. ’E works right inter Long
Bob’s arms. ’E j’ined us later on. ’E wos
knocked erbowt, I tell yer, neck ’arf scalded with
fish ile.
. “ Yah, er pint. Fill it up, go orn, Irish.
Ain’t Long Bob on ter night ? Lucky fer ’im.
’E’s up ter too many schemes. Next time, blokes,
’e won’t find us at ther ’orspittle. I owe them
Syrians one, my oath. Jalal ’ll be at ther dashed
morgue.”
LOUIS ESSON.


LIFE OR DEATH.
Keep the Kidneys Healthy
and you Will Live to a Good
Old Ag'e—Neg'letf Them and
Suffering and Death must
Soon Follow.
tf'Ov.
“ Every
Picture
Tells a
Story. ,}
Weak Kidneys, Bladder and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism, Gout, Lame Back, Gravel, Bright's
Disease, Diabetes, and nearly all the Ills of Men
and Women can be traced to the Kidneys.
A SYDNEY MAN
OWES HIS LIFE TO DOAN’S PILLS.
Mr P Smith, 1 Cheltenham Street, Balmain Sydney, says ' “I used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they
miracle in my case. I had been under three doctors at different times,
their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad that I h^.^
be carried home on a cart, if an attack came on when working in the street.
Sometimes I taken to the hospital when one of these bad attacks
came on My wife Bays she thought that I would never live through some
of these'bad turns. I suffered with a kind of biliousness and vomiting
Mv secretions were very bad, I could never bend my back or move at all
when I had a bad turn The people at the hospital me medicmes
and recommended rubbing in liniments but it was of no use, did
benefit me I saw an advertisement for Doan s Backache Kidney Bills,
and procured this remedy. I only took one box and was cured M hen I
finished them I started work, and have worked ever since It jsheavy
work lam doing, but it does not affect me. These pills cured me after
years of suffering, and the relief was almost instantaneous.
Mrs Smith says, eight years later : “My husband has had wouderfu
health since he used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. lam con^n^ ed
he owes his life to this remedy. He takes a dose of the pills now and
again, just as a precaution, and because he thinks the kMneys need a ton (
sometimes. He is now so well, thanks to Doan s Backache Kidi y
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists an
Storekeepers at 2 9 per box (six boxes, 15/3),0r will be P° s
on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney.
V
\Yfc
ECZEMA CURED.
Mr. H. Watson, 3 Alfred Street,
Anuandale, Sydney, says:—-“A couple
of years ago 1 liacl Eczema break out
very badly on my chest. It was shortly
after I returned from a trip to India,
where I had gone with horses. I had
fever badly in India, and the Eczema
seemed to be the result of this sickness,
It was very severe, and spread rapidly,
until I was in such a state that the pain
and irritation nearly drove me mad.
When I went to bed at night my suffer-
ings were worse, and it was nearly morn-
ing before I could get to sleep. A man
I know advised me to get Doan s Oint-
ment, saying that he had heard of great
results by using this preparation. I
thought it a good idea, and obtained,
a pot. The first application was cooling,
and the second soothed the itch, and
after that I got along splendidly. Every
time I applied the ointment there was a
marked improvement, until I was quite
cured. Within a month from the hist
time I used the ointment not one trace
of the ailment remained. Doans Oint-
ment is a splendid preparation lor
Eczema, skin irritation, to take intlam
illation from the skin, and to hea .
Four years later Mr. Watson says :-~
“ It is a long time since Doan s Ointment
cured me of Eczema, and I am P leas ® d
say that the cure is permanent.
quite free of this dreadful complaint, ana
have been during the past four years.
The most obstinate of all skin diseases
—Eczema—is permanently cured by tne
great skin remedy, Doan’s Ointment.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chenns ■
and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, or w
be posted on receipt of price by r ostei-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
| But be sure you get DOAN’S.
A Gulf Sunday.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
sun climbed suddenly up out of the
I crimson east. “ China” Brown yawned
and turned over again in his blankets, with
an impatient eye on the tent-flap. At the opening,
the early light came in and rested upon his eye-
lids. It was Sunday, and China was in his hunk
for a late morning, after a tremendous week with
a timber dray and a badly-broken team. It was
a pity, however, that he had left the uncooked
part of his overnight supper-steak upon a fracteui-
case within the tent. To this, with the rising of
the sun, came a myriad of flies —large and small
whose continued roaring presently forced itself
upon Brown’s notice.
“Flies!” he murmured bitterly, and reached
for his hat, which he cast with precision at the
swarm browsing upon the steak. I here was a
crash, and the overbalanced case fell upon the
floor, taking the meat with it. The flies scatteied,
filling the tent, and then descended again glut-
tonously. China drew the hot blanket over his
ears, to dull the long, sounding note of their
insistent chorus; but presently, as the sun moved
higher in the sky, the heat became unbearable,
lie flung the blankets from him and sprang, fully
dressed, from his bunk. It is not unusual to wake
in walking costume in the Gulf country. W hen
one is dog-tired with the heat and effort of an
all-day conflict with an invisible track, a certain
amount of will-power is required to remove one s
shirt and things before retiring for the night.-
China left his couch of sacks and saplings, and
lounged out, blinking, into the sunshine. Below,
the creek plunged and gurgled over polished rocks
and naked purple roots, with the boughs above
casting an occasional pink-petalled blossom into
the foaming waters. China paid no attention to
the scenery. He was looking for food, and seized
his hinged gridiron with a heavy hand.
“Now, where is that bloomin’ steak?” he
muttered, peering into the recesses of the gunny-
safe. Jam there was, and tomato sauce, and
candles and soap, and onions, and a pair of socks
but no steak. Of a sudden he remembered the
flies, and went into the tent. He rescued the
meat, and dusted it upon the bunk. T. hen he
took it down to the creek and hung it in the water
for a time on a stick. After these processes he
grilled it, and made a large, unsatisfactory meal,
with the aid of the tomato sauce and some stale
bread. He then cut up a pipe of strong tobacco,
and sat on a cool rock in the shade beside the
creek. He sat there for some time, thinking.
At length he stood up again and straightened
himself. He took off his boots and trousers, and
went into the tent. Inside, he rummaged among
a pile of clothes which he kept in the
fracteur-case, and brought out a pair of
blueys, a couple of shirts, and a block of
yellow soap. Down to the creek he went again,
waded in, and sat upon a submerged rock in mid-
stream, with the water flowing about him. There
was another rock alongside, higher up, upon
which he put the clothes. He sat there awhile,
cool and pensive. At length he took a shirt and
wetted it in a leisurely manner, with his thoughts
far away. He soaped the shirt, and battered it
upon the rock, and soused it repeatedly in the
creek, and at last, having wrung it out, he rolled
it into a ball and placed it out of the water’s
reach upon the high rock. He treated the other
clothes in the same fashion. After another hour's
lazing, he gathered the whole bunch together and
took them up the bank, where he spread them
out on a branch to dry. Shortly, he resumed his
former costume of trousers, boots, shirt and hat, and
started off for the township. As he came up the
track beside the creek, a mighty thirst grew upon
him. He looked at the water in the creek, but
held himself in. Murphy’s pub came into view,
and the string of men scattered along the pub-
front watched him with lazy interest as he climbed
the road from the gully.
“ H’lo, China ! ”
“ Wotto, Strapper ! ”
Strapper was a giant with long, black whiskers,
who lounged against one of the verandah-posts,
smoking an incongruous cigarette. China made
for the bar, with a silent invitation to the Strapper
to follow. Everyone on the verandah included
himself in the call to beer, and Jimmy Murphy,
the publican, stopped serving drinks for a moment
to go out to the back.
“ China Brown’s shoutin’,” he bawled to the
half-dozen men who lounged and gossiped outside.
They made for the bar with some speed.
Into the resultant noise of tongues there pre-
sently broke the sound of a cracked bell, long and
viciously shaken at the entrance to the dining-
room. The men hastily gulped down what
was left in their glasses, and trooped inside,
thirty or more of them. There w ere several in
the crowd who had already reached that stage of
intoxication when the embeered one carefully
spreads out the tail of his coat to be trodden on by
the unrecking world.
An untidy, unshaven slab of a man slouched in
and strolled round the table, asking each diner in
turn ‘ ‘ Roast ’r b’iled ? ” When he came to Lark
Tudson, that bibulous person had his head on his
arms, and was half asleep. The slab pushed a lean
forefinger in among Lark’s small ribs. “Roast
’r b’iled ?” he demanded. Lark sprang up fiercely
and smote the waiter’s face with his.open hand.
“Who’re y’ stabbin’ in tli’ ribs?” he roared,
’'with unjustifiable violence. The slab caught him
with one hand by the collar of his shirt and by
the hair with the other, and bumped his head
diligently upon the table. “Roast r b tied.
he asked, insistently. ,
“ B’i-i-iled,” growled Lark, and suddenly wept
upon his dinner things. He was a large man,
and had already drunk 23 beers, and he was
shorn of his strength. . , . .p
The meal progressed quietly enough until ttie
fruit came along. The flies were still desperate,
and it was warm. Paf -y. v
“Hot!” said Murphy, agreeably, to 1 atcny
Sullivan, who sat at his right hand.
“Like Hell!” agreed Patchy, his mouth
crimson with ripe watermelon. .
Opposite Patchy sat his old rival and hater
Terry Meagher, ferry was in trouble with the
flies Every little while he struck at them with
a greasy palm, smiting his face each time with
considerable force. Patchy watched him, im-
patiently, and saw that every fly escaped ,
last, having finished the ripe interior of his melon-
Sllt “Trv thishe shouted, viciously, and flung
the slippery green rind full in Jerry’s unsuspecting
From him it cannoned and passed
along the line, catching China Brown on the
ear, and then landing saucer-wise upon Samson
Bourke’s curly hair. Meagher got up, delibe-
rately. He was heavy with food and beer, and
he rocked slightly as he walked. He went
steadily round to Sullivan, closed his fist, and
struck > hard where he thought SMhvan s face
should be—and smote but air. Patchy close
with him, and they both fell crashing to the
floor, and brought a bench with them.
“ Outside ! ” yelled the crowd, skipping down
towards the door. “ Outside ! ” and picked the
locked pair up and carried them fighting to the
open ground at the back. In the struggle China
Brown was knocked down and trampled on by
the surging mob. He dragged himself up to his
Lnees, and struck out impartially at the men
nearest him. Others came up behind and knocked
him flat again, and a large, heavy bool was planted
between his shoulder-blades as Lark Juds
stumbled drunkenly out in the wake of ™
shouting crowd. Up crawled China
gered after Lark, whom he caught by the back of
the shirt, and so was dragged to the scene of
excitement. By this time the row had assume
considerable proportions. No less than three
fights were going on in different places, eacl \ w
its crowd of excited onlookers, who stood the
warriors up again as they bit the dust, and urgec
them on to the fray. China stood there a
moment, uncertain, and in the end turned back
to the bar for a drink or two. He had ten during
an hour in the cheerful company of Joe Magenms,
who had just come in from Steele s Creek. By-
and-bye, he began to feel as though a clearer
vision of right and wrong had come to him. This
vision was rendered still clearer by the arrival of
Teddy Collins, who suggested more drinks, lhey
spent another hour or so in the bar.
“Well kim on,” said China, at length, recall-
ing the “’ trouble ”at the back. “ Le’s go’n see
whash happenin’.” 5
“ Ri> : ” said Joe, clasping an arm about China s
neck. Six drinks were the limit with Joe. Ihe
trio came out of the pub together, full into a fight
between the Strapper and Steve Macrow The
Strapper had had his life-blood tapped by a chance
blow from Macrow, and was for the momen
blinded. As he reeled, Steve caught him another
° n ‘‘ TteSi not fair ! ” yelled China, and broke
into the ring. He ambled up to Steve, who
stood somewhat taken aback by the unusual
nature of China’s approach. China hauled off a
heavy right and struck Steve in the teeth. Ihe
blow was a mighty one, and landed China sitting,
in its recoil. Steve was as large as the Strapper,
and a couple of stone heavier than China. He
staggered, and then recovering, flung himself
madly upon China, as he rolled on the ground.
The Strapper, having regained his sight, fell upon
Steve, and the crowd, roaring, sorted the bunch
out by grabbing the legs and arms which pro-
jected. This time, when a certain amount of
calm had been restored, it was China and Steve
who found themselves opposed. The other two
fiahts had ended in the meantime, and the
quartette joined the crowd about China and his
opponent. Among them was Jimmy Hansen, a
raw Swede just up from the coast, who thrust in a
huge, bare, purple shoulder, raw with sunburn,
between the combatants. China had lately done
Timmy the Swede a rather good turn, but China
had forgotten this himself, and smote Jimmy
blindly for his offfcioiisness. Forthwith he
sprawled headlong with an equally blind return
from Jimmy.
Mike Flanagan came up at that moment.
“Take thot ! ” he bellowed to the Swede,
catching him on the point with a fist like
a six-pound sledge. It was ill-judged of Flana-
gan, although he considered Jimmy to have inter-
fered unwisely, for China, in spite of his bewilder-
ing experiences, knew when a man was being
unfairly treated. With what remained of the
morning’s vigor and vim, China rose to his full
fighting height and struck one last, wild,
passionate blow—which landed fairly in the midst
of Mike Flanagan’s flaming countenance, and
covered his face with a sudden flow of rich Irish
blood. With a roar like a savaged bull Flanagan
charged the crowd, hitting out recklessly, with a
ducked head, and presently emerged, foaming,
near the bar. He gasped, and took several deep
breaths. ... ,-
“ Ye divils !” he said at last, looking from the
crowd down to his hands, and from his hands
back again to the crowd. “ Br-r-r he growled,
and turned disgustedly into the bar.
Once more the cracked bell began to ring for tea
this time. The men, beery and tired and dusty,
but inclined to be jovial, trooped in and took
their places at the long table. Between mouth-
fuls China gently mopped a damaged eye and a
widened upper lip with a w'etted sweat-rag.
After supper, China set forth with Jimmy the
Swede for camp. As he reached his tent and
turned once more into his blankets, with the front
flap open and the stars shining white and crimson
in a splendid sky, “ A hell v a day !’ he mui-
mured, amiably, tying himself up into a com-
fortable knot. Then he drowsed off to sleep with
his head resting upon his arm.
FRANK HENTY.


* c After having recovered from rheumatic fever I
so weak that I thought
BMWMBIBWWBWPBWWWWWI was
I would never get strong again.
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide.
at'
w
W
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Legin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
you.'Ve? ‘^AYEß’S , ’’ ati ° n Sarsaparillas that wil * disappoint
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FR
COLORED *
And
POST
Artistic
CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
i- 1 " W JS '*l
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Card 3 to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
hare sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send von for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent's Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we mud, give vou full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return t.he cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
FREE!
GARDEN SEEDS.
No Money Wanted.
£l,OOO.
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds.
All you have to do is to send us your Name and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Beliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by returu mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
We trust you—the risk is ours. Yon may retnrn the
seeds if not sold, though you will lind the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easv. for they are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer is withdrawn
Florists’ Seed Siippig Co. 52
HAMILTON STREET,
N.S.W.
Do You Know
that more than half the sickness in the world, especially of
Sna!ir^^/ 0nS t ipatioll? lfc can be Prevented if
BE,:,CHAM S I ILjjS are taken whenever nature calls for
assistance. Comfort and happiness follow the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
THE HANDY HOME REMEDY.
There’s no secret about the value of Beecham’s Pills as a
family medicine. Thousands of families always keep a box
handy and it is the first resort in case of sickness appearing,
being the stitch in time” which prevents further trouble, and
possibly serious illness. If you have not got a box of
BBLCHAM S PILLS in the house, get one now, you never know
how soon it may be needed. A dose taken wdien ailments arise
will soon right the wrong and restore you to health and vigour.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price 1/ft (56 piJls ) & 2/9 (168 pills).
WYSE & WHITE,
Squatters’ Agents for Employment
and General Station Supplies,
No. 1 London Bank Chambers,
Pitt & Market Sts., Sydney.
Coming 1 direct from the Outer
Darling, we know your wants and
are in a position to supply them.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Con'sssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY,
FREE TRIAL/I
NOT A PENNY TOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s' improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free £
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIO.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
m pills m
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
m.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY,
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blairs
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
. London. England
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours; 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called niedioal books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyelopmdia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
men
an o
WOMEN
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE,
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special" Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). /Vote Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“Elmley House,”
151 EHzabeth-st..
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
THE BROKEN HEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The harp of life Love fiercely swept
With fingers strong,
And from the wakened throbbings leapt
A rapturous song.
In their new ecstasy elate,
The dead strings spoke;
But —with a pulse of joy too great—
One frail string broke !
Sydney.
A.H.A.
THE AUSTRALIAN PRESSMAN
“ Typhon ” writes Surely the man who
wrote the Red Page notice of Given’s Making
a Newspaper hasn’t had a wide experience
of daily newspaper offices in Australia. He
quotes with seeming surprise the statement
that in America—“ The newspaper business is
one wherein young men shine, and having failed
to fight their way well towards the front, the
middle-aged find small demand for their services.
The fittest survive only until they are unfit, and
sentiment is not allowed to interfere with the pro-
cess of exclusion.”
That is an accurate description of the con-
ditions obtaining in daily newspaperdom in Aus-
tralia. Whenever a man in Melbourne or Sydney
begins to lose pace, and grey hairs begin to show,
the kind proprietors make every endeavor to get
him a job somewhere else. If he can be got on to
Hansard , so much the better for him. The Aus-
tralian newspaper proprietors, like the proprietors
of any other kind of factory, are ever on the look-
out for the brainy young man.
Then, again, your reviewer says that the
reporter's job in America isn’t up to much any
way. That is true; but it is also true of the
Australian reporter’s job. No evening paper in
any of the big cities makes allowances for lunch.
In fact, I have seen morning newspaper men in
the law courts feeding themselves with one hand
and writing with the other, so tl<ft they might be
‘clear” to take up duty in Parliament at half-
past four in the afternoon. As to war corres-
pondents in the United States having to do school
board meetings, I would like to mention the case
of Donald Macdonald of The Argus. Donald
wrote the best stuff of any war correspondent in
Soutli Africa. When he returned he had to take
ms share of mothers’ meetings, and the little
hole-and-corner cricket meetings at Young and
Jackson’s.
; As f to salaries, surprise is expressed that
the “ cub ’ reporter starts in America at £3
a week. Know one man, now bolding down a big
newspaper job in Sydney, who started on the Age
at . : a week. Also know half-a-dozen men
who joined the Argus staff at £2 or £2los. a week.
fu 6 8, Very f° rtunate man, and a tip-topper on
the Melbourne press who draws £6 a week as a
lt was different at one*time, but within
the last ten years salaries on the Australian press,
particularly in Melbourne, have tumbled badly
Men are now doing work on the Aye and Argus
for a week which previously was paid for at
the rate of Li a week. It is much the same ir
Sydney, although Sydney was never such a gooc
held for pressmen.
The story extracted from Given to illustrate the
dreadful morals of the American pressmen is one
that can be told about all the best interviewers ir
Australia. Ihe Australian reporter who would
get a bit of sensational copy from a man and then
wait until he retracted, wouldn’t hold his job very
long. ask anyone who knew, as reporters
Jack Edgar (dead), Harry Rhys Jones (dead!
iom Gilchrist, once of The Argus ; Schuler now
editor of The Age ; Frank Fox, also of The'Age ;
Cunningham, editor of The Argus; Dave Maling
(The Argus); or Monty Grover, of the S. M
Herald.
[The writer of the article (who started,
happily, on the Post , Wellington, M. L., at
30s. a week) did not assert that the Aus-
trail an newspaper office was paradise : all he
attempted to convey was that, no matter what
the conditions were here, it was not worth the
Australian pressman’s while to adventure to
America. There the evils now admitted to be in
Australia are ten times intensified, owing to the
keener competition and the more general accept-
ance of callous business methods.]
+
Fred Leist, one of the black-and-white
artists “discovered ” by The Bulletin, goes
to England in February to look round and (?)
come back. His “slick” and promising
work is familiar to our readers. For the
last three years he has been employed on
The Sydney Mail, turning out some artistic
covers, and he has represented the London
Graphic in Sydney for the same period. He
did some “ big ” work for that paper during
the visit of one Wales (ne York). Leist—
a hard and conscientious worker—has great
possibilities as an illustrator, and takes with
him the good wishes of artistic Australia.
Now the Literary Agency of London, 5
Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London,
offers two hundred and fifty guineas for the
best First Novel they receive. Authors
should write for particulars, enclosing an
addressed envelope and payment for postage.
Part 7 of Yol. iii. of The Forest Flora of
N.S.W., edited by J. H. Maiden, deals use-
fully with the “redbean,” the “redstringy-
bark,”the “bush ironbark,” and the “brown
beech.” All these trees, however, have
vernacular aliases.
Writing books for boys seems a steady job. In
the catalogue of the Junior Book Club, juststarted
by the Sydney Book Club, Ballantyne has 60 books
to his name, Henty 55, Kingston 41, Ellis 36, and
Fenn 30. Among the girl authors are Annie
Swan with 29 books, and Ethel Turner with 14.


PERDRIAU
FOR
GARDEN HOSE and
SPRINKLERS.
Price Lists Posted Free on request
270 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY. >
//
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
?■'
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock DriU tor
Mines or Quarries Weiirht about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
Mines or
sole acehts:_ w & j. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAM PA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
all first-
class STORES.
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“ PAMPA.’
Cocoa Handle - //-
Buffalo Handle - 1/i
Stag Handle - - * 1H
NEW SERIES —IVV.„ VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
Should
be
in Every
Home.
WOLFE.
SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
Tbe beverage
that benefits.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
ON THE HOP
PRICE. 21s,
A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
MOTOR GARS!
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE. ' I
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables: “ Riscuttaiso, Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W
Australian reference —F. G. CROUCH, Esq., Randwiek,
Sydney. N.S.W.
99
“AMERICAN EAGLE
EMERY WHEELS.
s. sj; sr “ Jrssysar. i £«*?=. r«:
works, at a surface speed of not less than 9000 feet per minute, giving a stress of more than 250 lb. per square inch.
Hints to Emery Wheel Users. —Mount wheels on heavy, rigid machines to prevent vibration-—'wheels
should slide freely on snindle to allow for expansion of the latter; cupped flanges about one-third the size should be
placed on each side of the wheel with leather or rubber washers between the flanges and the wheel. Run wheel
towards operator, keeping the rests close to the wheel. Run the wheel at the speed for which it was made-crowding
a wheel does not increase the cutting capacity ; it simply neats the work ana wears out the wheel soonei. Re\er
hack a wheel, but use a dresser and keep your wheels perfectly true and in balance.
Large Stocks always o« hand for immediate delivery. All Storekeepers or direct from
R. A. HERVEY,
SOLE AGENT for
AUSTRALASIA,
Cor. Clarence &. Ring Streets, Sydney.
<2
o
Q:
s
Co
S
5V
B._lf for any reason a wheel does not give entire satisfaction, write in immediately, stating what the trouble is, so that it can be exchanged for one suited to the work.
mm
The PHILLIPS Pressed
Steel Split PULLEY
Is the last word spoKen in goods of this class.
Very light, very strong, and of most excellent
design. Because of the preference shown by
some people for iron pullies, the sole agency for
New South Wales has been secured by . . .
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD. , 60 Clarence Street, Sydney
Write for Price List. A Large Stock on Hand.
WATER BAG, 14/-, 20/-
The “ABBOTT
99
Is now recognised as THE
Water Filter of Australia.
Guaranteed to stop
All Disease Germs.
Vide Bacteriological Certificates.
IF YOU VALUE YOUR HEALTH YOU WILL BUY AN “ ABBOTT.”
MADE IN GREAT VARIETY AT ALL PRICES.
The WATER BAG is particularly suitable for the country .
The ordinary Water Bag does not Fitter the Water.
Write for Folder giving full description and prices. Liberal Trade Discount.
RAPLIN
Hand ...
Ice Machine
Will freeze Water in
3 Minutes, and make
Ice in 20 Minutes .
PRICE £l2 lOs.
N. GUTHRIDQE, LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
