

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—“ TilTiiF a
J§§;:«:.* _ niiimuwr w W mmmmAmmArn \S s**»*#■■
99
107 Kent street, Syc^Lney,
•9
-FOR—
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
% t, ' ... AND .. .
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
ECQBArrr.
-Ufai
v i A \ ? &■>,
Hadleys Orient (jotel.
it&ifc:
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Take it back,
1 must have—
m®
fine-Apple brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHOBB S NEW DOOR LATCH
•r" ' ■
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
7lafionaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Societj').
W. A. 0188, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wante.
Qj&, all , h)al/{&u) fo&UfCu U■& feet.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of tha present day
are ■ ■ ■ * ■
TELEPHONES
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE SILVER TO WN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Syc/ney Branch :
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT SXRJES3EST, SYXS3\TBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
BENSDORPS
A
the Queen of all Cocoas
b
EAST WAY'S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOB ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
66
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making; Machinery.
Also la;
helidoh spa water.
Warm Carbonic Acid Gas is unpalatable.
HELICON SPA should be iced.
GOLLIN & 00.,
The Bulletin
Tol. 29.—N0. 1475.]
[Thursday, May 21, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Opperiheirn, The Missioner, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d,
postape 4d. Cleriph, History of Ireland, 12s 6d, p. Is.
Stubbs, Germany in Middle Apes, 7s, postape Bd.
Knapps, The Microbe as Friend and Foe, Is 3d, postape 3d.
Phil May, “ Humorists of Pen and Pencil Series,” Is 6d
posted. Le Bon, Evolution of Forces, ss, postape 6d.
Lomax, In Spain, “ Black’s Color Books,” 9s, postape 9d.
NOW READY.
Hargrave, Road Making: An Australian Handbook for
Local Conditions for Shire Engineers, ss, postage 3d
The Autocar Handbook, illus., new ed., Is9d, postage 4d.
Rainbow, Mosquitoes: Their Habits and Distribution
Is Cd, postage 2d.
Str TWn’K A i t i ° f i Sh °r: °f rd Writin £* fully illustrated.
The best book on the Art ; 10s 6d, postage 9d
A BOOK FOR ALL AUSTRALIANS.
OFFICIAL YEAR-BOOK OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
Statistics for period 1901-1908. Over 900 pages, freel.v illustrated, 3s. 6d. postage.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to L e c t u r e r s,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
palled upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
o o
<; pa
f
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of stamps from C. HUDSON, Manufacturing
Chemist, 5 & 7 Queen's Plane, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
Chesterton
'JTHE Man Who Was Thursday (Unwin)
is, alas, not another Napoleon of
Notting Hill. G. K. Chesterton, one of
the few brilliant writers in England, has
not been able to surpass that quaint
masterpiece ; indeed, he has been able
only to parody it. Following the pattern
set by his' first novel, The Man Who Was
Thursday begins in farce and ends in
allegory. But while the allegory in the
Notting Hill Napoleon was significant,
the allegory of the Seven Thrones seems
vague to the extent of insanity. Still,
it is a madness so brilliant, so delight-
ful, that we should not be sorry to
see more writers write mad—especially
Hall Caine.
The novel is called “A Nightmare,”
and it is. It is crammed with wild ad-
ventures and wilder absurdities and the
wildest sense. It is full of what, in a
Chestertonian sense, can be termed “ a
violent secrecy.” Take this dithyramb
about trains:
“An anarchist is an artist, because he
prefers a great moment to everything. He
sees how much more valuable is one burst of
blazing light, one peal of perfect thunder,
than the mere common bodies of a few shape-
less policemen. An artist disregards all
governments, abolishes all conventions. The
poet delights in disorder only. If it were
not so, the most poetical thing in the world
would be the Underground Railway. . . .
Why do the clerks and navvies in the rail-
way trains look so sad and tired ? It is be-
cause they know that the train is going right.
It is because they know that, whatever place
they have taken a ticket for, that place they
will reach. It is because after they have
passed Sloan Square, they know r that the
next station must be Victoria, and nothing
but Victoria. Oh, their wild rapture ! oh,
their eyes like stars and their souls again in
Eden, if the next station were unaccount-
ably Baker-street ! ”
“It is you who are finpoetical,” replied
the poet. “The rare, strange thing is to
hit the mark ; the gross, obvious thing is to
miss it. We feel it epical when man, with
one wild arrow, strikes a distant bird. Is it
not also epical wdien man, with one wild
engine, strikes a distant station ? Chaos is
dull ; because in chaos the train might
indeed go anywhere, to Baker-street or
to Bagdad. But man is a magician,
and his whole magic is this, that
he does say Victoria, anfi lo ! it is
Victoria. No, take your books of mere
poetry and prose ; let me read a time-table,
with tears of pride. Take your Byron, who
commemorates the defeats of man ; give me
Bradshaw, who commemorates his victories.
It is quite evident that Chesterton
hasn’t heard of our railways.
Chesterton once pointed out the extra-
ordinary appearance the world takes on
when a man stoops down and looks at it
through his own legs. And his are the
eyes that persist in looking at the universe
through his own legs. He has a quality
almost extra-mundane of seeing the
common things of our civilisation in a
new aspect—upside down.
Shall I tell you the secret of the whole
world ? It is that we have only known the
back of the world. We see everything from
behind, and it looks brutal. That is not a
tree, but the back of a tree. That is not a
cloud, but the back of a cloud. Cannot you
see that everything is stooping and hiding a
face ? If we could only get round in front—?
As in his earlier novel, Chesterton
herein displays his genius for the descrip-
tion of fighting ; and one chapter in this
book almost equals in interest that his-
toric siege of Notting Hill. But the book,
even in its incomprehensible allegorical
close, is beautiful, humorous, and packed
with stimulating paradox. As random
examples :
No man should leave in the universe any-
thing of which he is afraid. . . .
It may be conceded to the mathematicians
that four is twice two. But two is not twice
one ; two is two thousand times one. That
is why, in spite of a hundred disadvan-
tages, the world will always return to mono-
gamy. . . .
What is there poetical about being in re-
volt ? You might as well say that it is
poetical to be sea-sick. Being sick is a
revolt. Both being sick and rebellious
may be the wholesome thing on certain
desperate occasions ; but I’m hanged if I
can see why they are poetical. Revolt in
the abstract is—revolting. It’s mere vomit-
ing. It is things going right that is poetical!
Our digestions, for instance, going sacredly
and silently right, that is the foundation of
all poetry. Yes, the most poetical thing,
more poptical than flowers, more poetical
than the stars—the most poetical thing in
the world—is not being sick.
But, after all, Chesterton’s real genius
lies in biography ; his Browning and his
Dickens will live—along with his Not-
ting-Hill Napoleon. Thursday is, as he
admits, a Nightmare.
Art at the Other End
“Yes, among the painters of England
there is a growing impression that tne Aus-
tralian artists, as a body, are doing good
work. From this group Lambert indubi-
tably stands out. He has all the elements of
success—personality, energy, strength, and
the useful capacity for making the right
artist-friends—and that i*s the best beginning
for an unknown man. He is so likeable a
chap, and he has the work behind his bohe-
mianism. It is no use making friends
among the London artists unless you have
the work to back it. Lambert has hit the
artistic public hard once or twice ; if he hits
it harder, he will be an A.R.A. Among the
sculptors, Mackennal looks like becoming
the next A.R.A.”
Thus E. Phillips Fox, newly returned
from Paris, where he has achieved the dis-
tinction, in company with Bunny and Lam-
bert, of being elected an Associate of the
the New Salon. With his artist-wife, who
exhibits as Miss Ethel Carrick, he is now
staying in Sydney, intent on adding the
Harbor to his other triumphs. Fox deserted
London for Paris, chiefly for the reason that
in London art goes about in a silk hat and
takes afternoon tea with duchesses and the
wives of the lords of beer. Fox does not go
about in a silk hat, and the duchesses, if
they want him, have to find him out in his
studio. He has no time for afternoon tea.
At the door of the Royal Academy, he
says, an artist must knock two or three
times, and knock hard. There is no dis-
tinction in getting a picture into the R.A. ;
it might be very good or very bad among the
eleven hundred accepted every year. But it
is necessary for a portrait painter to exhibit
in the R.A. Fox tells the yarn of an artist
who was commissioned by a man to do a
portrait of his wife for £lOO. He added,
“I’ll make it £5OO if you get it into the
Academy.” His wife could sweetly ask her
enemies, “ Have you seen my portrait at the
Academy?”’ But though the R.A. is
especially a people’s show, the artist who
aims at becoming an Academician must make
an artistic and not a popular success. The
International is a much smaller show, and
the works on its walls are selected with
care, and hung with discrimination. A few
artists, such as C. H. Shannon, Orpen,
John, Lavery, are big enough not to have to
exhibit in the Academy. But the Inter-
national, while an artistic exhibition, is quite
disregarded by the public—which is a way
with publics. Lambert was lucky in getting
in with the International crowd, which is a
close corporation. Still, he knew how to
stay there.
In Paris the art conditions are remarkable.
The Old Salon is somewhat like the R.A.—
an academical show. The New Salon is a
smaller exhibition, and there the work of
each man is shown on one panel. There is
an Autumn Salon, where all the conventions
of painting are deliberately disregarded. Tlie
judges go on the theory that therej are no
rules in art; they will accept anything as
long as it is a freak. Fox tells that in this
Salon the color simply shrieks at you, and the
drawing has a naivety of impressionism that
looks like the work of a child of five. And,
as if this was not enough, there is a Salon
where any artist can exhibit, by paying for
the wall space. For the unknown artist
Paris should be spelt Paradise.
♦ —r-
Huxley’s famous essays, Man's Place in
Nature, form a valuable sixpenny illustrated
reprint in the R.P.A. series. These essays,
published in 1863, were received by the press
of that time as “an anti-scriptural and most
debasing theory . . . standing in blas-
phemous contradiction to Biblical narrative
and doctrine ” !
The April Science Progress (Murray, 55.),
a quarterly indispensable to the scientific
reader, has a contents list ranging from
“ The Transformations of Elements,” and
“The Action of Alcohol,” to “The Theory
of Diabolo.”
War
The utter futility of international arbitra-
tion as a substitute for war is clearly
indicated by Captain Mahan, the author of
The, Influence of Sea Power upon History, in
his recent book of essays, Some Neglected
Aspects of War (Sampson Low, per Dymock’s
Library, Sydney). Mahan makes the point
that war is an evil, but not in itself evil. To
say that war is wicked is to say that it is
wrong for society to organise and use force
for the control of evil. Behind the Hague
Convention must stand some force that can
carry out its decisions and coerce the party
that it conceives to be in the wrong. But
there is no such force. A recent Labor
utterance in Australia, deprecating defence
and relying upon the Hague for the
settlement of all racial differences, is due
to sheer ignorance. As Mahan remarks :
“ There are at this moment pending mo-
mentous differences which cannot be settled
by arbitration, because they involve the
oppositions of nations and races, and cannot
be brought under the head of any of those
accepted conventions that we call law. Such
are collisions of elemental forces, amid which
preparation for war will play a mighty part,
may insure peace, and may determine the
decisive solution.”
Man is fundamentally a fighting animal,
and it is war that has contributed most to
his evolution. There is no royal road to
peace. “We know that the process by
which men have passed from a life of war-
fare to a life of peace is nothing other than
the slow and sure process of the education
of the minds and the consciences of men,
and we know further that this slow and sure
process is the only one that will ever bring a
true world peace. .. . The world, if it is
ever to know universal peace, will find it only
through that same slow process by which we
have attained our present civilisation. Peace
congresses and international agreements and
tribunals are not the agencies which are to
do the real work, but are only the methods
by which public opinion is to be influenced
and quickened.”
Mahan makes this weighty indictment of
Australia: On the Pacific “two seas of
humanity, on very different levels as to
numbers and economical conditions, stand
separated only by this artificial dyke of legis-
lation [the exclusion of the Asiatic from Aus-
tralasia], barring the one from rushing upon
and flooding the other. As I look at the
legislation, and contrast the material con-
ditions, I wonder at the improvidence of
Australasia in trusting that laws, though
breathing the utmost popular conviction and
purpose, can protect their lands from that
which threatens. .. . All the naval power
of the British Empire cannot suffice ulti-
mately to save a remote community which
neither breeds men in plenty nor freely
imports them.”
This legislation of exclusion, Mahan
asserts, whether directed against persons
or goods, is essentially war ; defensive or
offensive, as it may please either race to
regard it; “and the popular feeling which
underlies is implicit war in a most dangerous
form, liable at a breath to bring people to
the very verge of hostilities, and that with
an impetus very likely to carry them over.
If with wealth, numbers* and oppor-
tunity, a people still cannot so organise their
strength as to hold their own, it is not
practical to expect that those who have
organising faculty and willingness to fight,
will not, under the pressure of need, enter
upon an inheritance which need will per-
suade themselves is ethically their due. . . .
In such a situation the only practical arbiter
is the physical force, of which war is merely
the occasional political expression.”
Rose Scott and her “Peace” Society
wants the N.S.W. school-children given
lessons on the subject of international arbi-
tration, deprecating war. This naval ex-
pert’s work can be cordially commended to
her as a text-book.
♦
“Vermis Liber” wants a list of “select
best novelists—a few of the top rank of FI
class.” H’m ! It’s a difficult recipe. But he
might take a teaspoonful each of Hardy
and H. James (hjs earlier works), add a
heaped tablespoonful of Meredith all
there is in stock, and sprinkle with Snaith,
Galsworthy, Kipling, Stevenson, Wells,
Locke, De Morgan, Hewlett, Conrad, the
earlier Barrie, and, for flavoring, add May
Sinclair’s The Divine Fire, Chesterton’s
The Napoleon of Notting Hill, Douglas’s
The House with Green Shutters. George
Moore’s Esther Waters, and Hichen’s
Flames. There are others. As he speci-
fies a homely flavor of English rural life,
he might stir up with Eden Phillpotts
(F 2), Meredith’s Rhoda Fleming, and, of
course, Hardy. There are other recipes
equally useful. Each cook compounds his
own.
There will be readers for Will H. Ogilvie’s
series of slight sketches entitled My Life in
the Open (Unwin), dealing with life in Aus-
tralia, America and Scotland. We prefer
the poet; but lately his Pegasus has gone
lame.
“C ” writes: Agreed with Red Page eulogy
of For Life story. It recalled a some-tirne-ago
conversation I had with a gentleman in the Bris-
bane S’Army shelter. And I ask Steele Rudd if
he is prepared to declare the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, concerning the
inspiration and authorship of the yarn which
helps to sustain Ins dwindling popularity. [But a
writer must find his material somewhere; and if
the shelter-gentleman told the story, Steele Rudd
wrote it, and wrote it well.]
The effort to supply supplementary Aus-
tralian reading matter for Australian schools
is attempted, with moderate success, by A.
Gf. Alan,son in Ben Halyard, a story of Bass
and Flinders (Dymock, Sydney). It gives,
in simple narrative form, some account of
Australian history.
The Tin Wreath
A Wort! for
Hugh McCrue
McCrae’s poetic vocabulary is infinitely
richer and more copious than that of any
other Australian now writ-
ing, and his lines are
illuminated by phrases lit
from the true poetic fires
Of his mastery of verse, his chosen instru-
ment of expression, it may be owned that he
has not yet persuaded it to yield all its tones
of infinitely solemn or tender music, but he
is young, and merely to be master of that
instrument is almost to be great.
Considering his personal idiosyncrasies of
thought, it will be at once perceived that his
imagery—one might say his poems—make
their appeal to the imagination through the
visual sense, a fact explained, no doubt, by
the knowledge that he is an artist as well as
a poet. His Muse comes to him in visions
—she does not haunt him with “airy
tongues.” As yet he is absolutely unmoral
in his art, as his poetic ancestors, Keats and
Rossetti, are unmoral ; inclined to bookish-
ness, he is (as yet) too detached from the
workaday world with its common joys and
sorrows ; but I cannot regard his present
attitude as final, and, greatly admiring his
past work, look forward to greater achieve-
ments as the years bring greater skill and
maturer thought.
A word as to McCrae’s likely competitors.
Adams is scarcely strong enough ; Lawson,
with some fine work achieved, can add
nothing to it now, and at his highest he
never had the potentialities of McCrae.
Quinn nowadays writes little of value, for,
though he has the art, his voice has lost the
impassioned accents of true poetry. Our
Laureate yiust be a singer—and Brennan,
alas ! lias been silent long. As for Jessie
Mackay, I wish that the writer of A Folk
Song ” could teach Hugh McCrae to siny as
she can.
z.
Two Reservoir
Poets.
Bayldon has publicly foresworn poetry:
Brennan has written nothing for ten years
past—the future is big with
promise for these men.
As for the rest, whose
name is legion—they have
yet to learn the wisdom of turning them-
selves off. They never allow a good “ head ”
to accumulate in their reservoir of emotion,
but dribble continuously into the sink of
journalism like so many defective water-taps.
True, their names become familiar to us as the
names of certain indefatigable soaps and per-
tinacious pills—but what else do we remember ?
But Bayldon has publicly turned off his tap,
never, he say's, to turn it on again. That is
all very well, but meanwhile lie re-
mains Bayldon, and sooner or later,
something must happen. To understand
the significance of his deliberate silence, one
must understand Bayldon. I know him,
although I have met him but twice. Once
he called about his book, and- again he
called with it. On each occasion lie con-
versed. With the conversations thrown in,
it was the cheapest book I ever bought.; For
Bayldon’s personality is as a sudden sea-
breeze to a sweating sundowner —a sea-breeze
with a velocity of 80 miles an hour. It
knocks you flat, but you cannot help admir-
ing his south-easterly manhood. And this
robust person has turned himself off, and all
the time his big storage capacity is filling, and
filling—when the Bayldon reservoir at last
bursts, there will be a bad time for all the little
poets who can’t swim. And the same with
Brennan. His fruity brains —maturing in
the rvood for ten years—will assuredly run
clear when next the spigot is drawn. Poten-
tial poets these two, for they are strong
enough to turn themselves off’, and wait.
D.O’R.


Jl
ar
FASHION
ECONOMY
and
at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Famous Low Prices.
mm
-ST-
No. 4271— Knitted Coif Jerseys, Self-
colors: Black, Cream, Navy, Cardinal,
and Black and White, 10/6.
No. 4336— A1l Wool Knitted Coif Jerseys,
Navy, Cream, Cardinal, and Cream with
Red, Green or Tartan Collar & Cuffs, 12/6
Top Quality at
Bottom Price.
*
J®3—Bhot Silk Hat, trimmed Roses,
roliag-e, Ribbon Velvet Bows at
side, 30/-
No. 126 — Ciace Silk Hat, Shirre Silk Crown,
Fancy Feather Mount, tt/6
No. 590 — Girls’ Skirts, in the New Fancy Winter
Tweed-
Sizes 28 30 32 34 36 in.
9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6
Warm Navy Winter Cloth—
-6/6 6/- 6/6
7 /«
7/6
Many other
Stylish Skirts,
as well as per=
fectly fitting
Tailor = made
Costumes,
Motor & Driv=*
ing Coats and
Modish Millin-
ery, are illus=
trated in our
Aut u m n
Fashion Port=
folio. Send for
a copy, posted
Free on appli=
cation.
d
m
No. 106— Glace Silk Picture Hat, Velvet bind at
edge, trimmed Ribbon and Full Fancy Feather
Mount, 35/-
No. 610/2— Cirls’ Smart Sicilian Skirts, Navy,
Black, Dark Green, Dark Cardinal —
Sizes 28 30 32 34 36
9/- 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/-
V9>
f
m
/
No. 406— Smart Velveteen Blouse, Black, Navy,
Brown, Wine, Green—best quality, 15/9 ;
second quality, 12/9.
i
No. 119— Black Sateen Blouse, fasten
in front; sizes S. W., W., O.S. and
Extra 0.5., 6/9.
No. 964— Plain Tucked Cashmere Blouse,
fasten in front, long sleeves ; Black,
Navy, Cardinal, Cream, 8/6.
fe-
~~ V-. •.//,\ v .
✓i v r i
IMS
y3SLi
No. 1064— A1l Wool Unshrinkable Cashmere xersey,
Cream, Navy, 12/6.
•** **&
No. S.B. 10— Smart Black Merve Silk Blouse,
trimmed Guipure, Long or Elbow Sleeves
Sizes S.W., W. and 0.5., 14/6.
■
No. 105—Mushroom Hat in Moire Silk,
trimmed band ot Velvet and Galon,
large White Roses and Foliage, 57/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ÜBUT
and other
SKINS;
Also
BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE,
send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
jLm tea.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES. TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing:, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales reridered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape
FOR
BOOKS.
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptamkron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3V
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy’, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary'-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
postl/3. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/- ; post 1/3. Manning’s
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring’ Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE.
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted-
This Picture Puzzle represents a Lion and liis
Keeper—Find the Face of the Keeper, and return to
us with your name and address, and ire will give a
genuine* FOUNTAIN PEN Free; only one answer is
allowed. We make this marvellous offer to advertise our
Mending Tissue. Mending Tissue is an article used for mak-
ing invisible patches and repairing clothing, gloves, furs, or any article of cotton, wool, silk,
linen, &c. It will hem any cloth much quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A
boon to bachelors. To all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 12 sample packages of
Mending Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated, we
require you to collect, from each person, with whom you leave a sample, 6d. (half the selling
price of samel. You then return us the money, and for this service we give Free, and in
addition to the Fountain Pen, Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments,
Silver Ware, Purses, Bags, Dinner Sets, &c. This is at least worth investigating. It costs
I nothing to try, and you take no risk. We simply ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us
I vour name and address. We then award you the
■fci
Fountain Pen and send you the 12 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according
to instructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you choose. Could anything be fairer?
This great offer is only open for a limited time. We will only accept answers from those who
did not answer our previous puzzle.
Write at once. THE GUTTA PEKCHA TRADING CO.. Ash St.. Sydney.
NATURAL
ENO’S
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNE Y.
a>
a>
u
VU
2-ft. High.
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR H BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks, brown eyes, and represented with flesh-coloure x body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, ail work ng parts are of best material, rapid in its action, and
ccurate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WHTCH
CHaiN and PENOHNT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
, We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money is/*, ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent wi<h the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prized given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright &Co., Seedsmen, 10 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
in
0
y
5
3
(t
C-B
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
CB
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
rapidly causing ordinary
types to become things
of the past.
Inso
different
styles.
Any and every
figure can be
made straight-
fronted by C.B.
Tailor-Made
Corsets.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are
the elixir of elegance,
smartness, refined dis-
tinction and comfort.
Light as air, yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
C.B. Tailor-Made
Corsets are an
insurance policy
on smart and
stylish dressing.
AH C.B. Corsets have rust-proof supports
From 8/11 to! Guineas per pair.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type as
far ahead of all other straight-fronted corsets as latter are in advance o
the old woven corsets. _ _ _ 0
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY; and BRISBAN
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
MFC
THE FREE-WHEEL FITMENT
js oftentinfes erroneously regarded as a trifle—little attention is paid to
quality—few questions put as to its grade—and yet there is no part
its
of
THE BICYCLE
upon which your pleasure is more dependent. Friction in the place of freedom
is always disappointing, but freedom where freedom should be is always a
delight! That is the secret of the success of
THE HYDE,
and its faultless freedom is aptly described in that well-known phrase, “it toils
not, but it spins.” Specify it on your next machine—any dealer win supply—
in the meantime write us for particulars.
V
D. Y. REHHIE, representing
BIRMINGHAM SMALL ARMS CO. LTD.,
4 Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.
(
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
>
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld. f The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
Of all Dealers.


Cough Drops
Are Drops
of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
lifer’s
'Cherry Sectoral
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing, relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
in the bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure ycu get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT,
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourhe St., Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
Two
docfo
rs
told
me
was
in
consumption
and both my lungs were
affected. / fried SCOTT’S
Emulsion and after a couple
of bottles my cough ceased.
/ have taken SCOTT’S for
twelve months and can safely
say if has cured me; I have
gained 2 stone 7 lbs. "
Mary O’6'RA'DY.
29 Loiiisa Street, South Freeman tie, West
[Australia.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why :
his s access illustrates the enormous
smTT^ 6 w hich constantly accrues to
oCOTT’S Emulsion by reason of its
digestibility. This digestibility
is achieved by the SCOTT process,
which also does away with the nauseous
aste and smell of the plain oil. Add
0 this the superb quality of all the
ingredients used in SCOTT’S and it
> s easy to see why SCOTT’S Emulsion
possesses a record for checking con-
sumption which is possessed by no
Th f ver em ulsion whatsoever,
f he ,° re ’ when purchasing, don’t ask
°r “ Emulsion ; ” ask for and get
scorn
EMULSION
the difference between them means
a cure for you!
See that
the Fish-
wan with
the Fish ”
is on the
Package.
Of all
Chemists
and
Dealers
in
Medicines.
o**"}2To*..
s
IRISH MOSS
FOR _-The besf remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Barm mg ton’s COL OS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
Tobacco
W MAnufarNred in
Richmond Virginia.
® by Larusa Brother C
Racked hy RTowns * Co. Agents .Sydney.
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot fret
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile 'reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS
grad * Bicycle with all thp latpat- imn»n scenes, ic describes every detail of the manufacture of a high*
L d tewkhoutSf ween hlgh - class
WITH THE FREE ART RnflKri ,ViU J ec ? Tethemostlib€ralandmari ' ellou s Bicycle offer
s assrsiwfflssis.'as sit svd
Write to-day, using sufficient postage aou *
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
A.<& F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Motice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Message of the Wind.
Oh, wind, you should never have told me
As you trembled the flame-tree’s red,
l 1 or the old, old magics enfold me
lhat I thought of as spent and dead.
Oh, wind, you should never have told me
As you trembled the flame-tree’s red !
For when he looked out to the willow,
Gazing up from the dusty tome,
Where the bosoms of blue skies pillow
The trails of the white cloud-foam,
How fair and how young was the willow !
And how grey was the dust-wreathed tome !
Oh, wind, you should never have told me
As you ripple the flame-tree’s crest,
lhat those void arms longed to enfold me
In the warmth of that lonely breast.
Oh, you wanton wind to have told me,
As you dance in the flame-tree’s crest!
For you know we may not be loving,
And you know we must not be fond,
lor you know we cannot be proving
All the rapture that lies beyond—
lhat hearts break with the strain of loving,
That souls stray that are all too fond !
Oh, wind, you should never have told me
As you scatter the flame-boughs red,
lor the old, old follies will hold me
That I prayed o’er as crushed and dead.
Oh ! you bad, mad wind, to have told me
As you riot in green and red !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Stranger and Friend.
One night from sheer perversity,
Grown callous from adversity,
And heedless quite of what the world might think
or say of me,
My family skeleton I took
From off its secret closet hook,
And arm-in-arm walked out with it where neigh-
bors all might see.
And then to everyone I met
This ghastly grinning castanet
I introduced politely as a stranger, yet a friend ;
And by the way they shook its hand,
Those neighbors made me understand
That ’twas no stranger after all, whate’er they
might pretend.
And ever since that fateful night
My skeleton I’ve kept in sight,
Till now, despite its ugliness, false shame I’ve
ceased to feel.
How vain for mortals thus to hide
A secret known both far and wide—
A secret that no cupboard ever built could quite
conceal.
Hong Kong.
J. D. Brown.
After.
The flow’ring gum is out again ,
And butterflies surround the trees,
The blue sky laughs without a stain
And fragrant streams the summer breeze—
Only my heart is still and mute,
Responseless as a broken lute.
The flow’ring gum is out again,
The creamy blossoms are unrolled.
The wild bees hum a glad refrain,
The birds’ sweet melodies are told ;
But here, in the old trysting place,
I hunger, vainly, for your face.
The flow’ring gum is out again,
And all the world is blithe and gay
Save I who pine in bitter pain,
Sick for the love I cast away ;
Yet nevermore I know you’ll come
To meet me ’ncath the flow’ring gum!
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.
Baby Clothes.
Humming a happy song she sews
The flannels, silks and calicoes;
Her needle like a fairy goes,
And in the fabric stitches dreams,
In all the gathers, all the seams,
Of Baby clothes.
A martyr’s hope of Paradise
No fairer seems unto his eyes
Than visions that her fancy knows,
As happy with her dreaming flight
She finds a labor of delight
In Baby clothes.
About the thread there seems to gleam
The rosy image of her dream ;
It smiles in every stitch she sews ;
And love is sewn in every seam—
A hundred hopes of promise gleam
In Baby clothes.
With hopes vague-fashioned from her breast
Shall baby, in those clothes, be dressed ;
For hope, a sunlit torrent, flows ;
Her heart glows glad and light and warm
With thoughts too dear to have a form
O’er Baby clothes.
And when Time’s march shall supersede
Their usefulness and Baby’s need,
In some close drawer shall they repose,
And in their memories made dear
They still will to her heart be near,
The Baby clothes.
N.s.w.
HAMER.


ii
m
3
O
sv
£
4
if
: -
c
:-• ; ■'
EE
ua
WUNDERLICH
ffi EBART METAL® JB
CEI LINGS
Originated by expert Designers • •
Modelled by first-class Artists • •
EMBOSSED BY
HIGHLY-TRAINED SPECIALISTS.
Erected by competent Tradesmen *
Decorated by skilled Colorists • •
Embossed by highly-trained
Specialists by means of powerful
Drop Hammers, which produce an
impression - Sharp, Clean, and True.
XVrite for TUuitrated Gatalogue.
TSfje Wunderlied Patent Veiling $ Roofing (Soy., Jf>td.,
S\ JNEY: 56 PITT ST. j MELBOURNE: 123 QUEEN ST\
«e» r3>ivt
S/
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth a,nd Castlereaph Streets.
g)®r TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
ct
Ut&S
Cocbm
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
<Joy
of' Living
constant use
robust health.
ensures
SR
■ft
KW^
\ V
wm
kIIXIJb
I
ttg f
E Rich &c?. i£ ;
SypAEY |sS^Lf^'
naWilßi
Makes
Buildings
Draught,
Damp,
Dust and
Insect Proof.
E. RICH & © II?.
SYP/'tEy BRISBANE
J-l
sw
Eleven Expert Chemists, with
a Large Staff of Assistants,
ARE working in the laboratories of the
various Paint and Varnish Works of
The Sherwin-Williams Co. These
eleven men are busy all the time, testing raw
materials for purity, experimenting with new
formulas and improving old ones, trying to
make every Sherwin-Williams
Paint and Varnish Product the
very best for its purpose that can
be produced by human ingenuity.
That is why Sherwin-Williams
Paint and Varnish Products always give such good satisfaction.
When you have need for Paint
Shop or Factory, or anything in
Sherwin- Williams.
or Varnish in your Home,
them, ask your dealer for
Write to-day for valuable little booklet, “ Who Makes the Best Paints and Varnishes."
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. MORRISON, Sydney, New South Wales.
4. Graham & Son, Wauerly, Sydney, New South Wales.
A. PARSONS & Co., Wollongong, " “ "
D. COPELAND & CO., Wagga Wagga, “ "
Frederick ash, Ltd., Newcastle, " " "
Charles Regan, Tamworth,
T. J. PHILLIPS, Dubbo,
BRACEY’S LIMITED, Llthgow,
JOHN MEAGHER & CO., Ltd., Temora, Neui South Wake.
BROOKS, Robinson & CO., LTD., Melbourne, Victoria.
CROOKS & BROOKER, Port Adelaide, South Australia-
COUCHE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & CO., Toumsoille, Queensland.
R. S. EXTON & Co., Brisbane, Queensland.
Hockley & CO., Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. FRED C. DONNISON, Lock Box 811, Sydney, New South Wales.
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Give
-5
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living- in it.
us approximate size of building, number of v rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.- —
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
Agents—
Harrison & Attwood,
Sydney.
directions
for using
' .. :
avenarius
-
i mi
SttAKt WELL £ 6T, R O FTfc N |
* 11 .J 'j
, - *' <r TTTTOrrrr«» ■•■ • #1
'
E.Rl€H&(S.ijp |
IMPORTERS
24626 O'Connell 5r
SYDNEY
° LE AUST^l 4HAOEhrs
For
oll
■
■•' •• if
A wood
preserving
Oil. that
doubles the
Life of Timber
and prevents
White Ante
E.RICtI a (R L T 9, sydi' e /'
a Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1475.
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 1908.
Prick 6d
THAT BOX.
State-Frights Premiers Bent and Wade say they will take their case to the country (in the matter of the division of Federal revenues). The Bulletin
hereby supplies a picture of the case. It will be handy to put the political dead in after the electoral battle.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiik Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin ivould oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, 'l'o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special 'Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention . _ The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
J o A niatcurs in lthich mid IF hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topicai drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central Neivs Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, hhl Hastings Street; Norman ,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.—C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
U.S.A. —Jones News Co., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt .—The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
A gents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x Uin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
jTie'^'aHetZoi.
THURSDAY, MAY 21, 1908.
FEDERAL REVENUES AND STATE
INSECTS.
The State Premiers have announced that they
will fight to the bitter end in resistance to the
Australian Government’s proposals for the division
of the Customs and Excise revenue after the
Braddon clause expires. If they carry out their
purpose, this ought to be the last shindy of any
note put up in the State Frights interest. A time
must come when the people will revolt against the
brute selfishness of these State Premiers, against
their enormous insolence, against their inventions of
fiction and perversions of fact, against their undis-
guised readiness to sacrifice the interests and hopes
and prospects and safety and the entire future of
Australia, and of the States which make up
Australia, and of the people who are both
the States and Australia, for the enlarge-
ment and bloating of their own personal dignity.
For, let it be noted, it is not a question of pre-
serving the interests of the people of Australia or
the people of the States of Australia. The newest
policy of the State Premiers is to leave the people
of the States of Australia utterly defenceless and
a prey to the first nigger invader who comes along
when Britain happens to be in trouble. This is
not because the State Premiers, or Insects, don’t
believe in defence; they would doubtless believe
in it most thoroughly if it was a question of each
State having its own army, and its own raft or
gunboat, and its own pomp and cocked hat. But
apparently they loathe the idea of any defence, or
any progress, or anything at all that is done by
the Commonwealth, because all the powers exer-
cised by the Commonwealth signify so much
less power and importance left for them—
the State Insects aforesaid. And appar-
ently every State Insect of them all would
sooner see his own State capital bombarded
and laid in ruins by a foreign enemy than have it
defended and saved by a fleet and army owned by
Australia—the Australia which he hates so bitterly
because it is something larger and greater than
himself. The State Premiers’ Conferences have
now degenerated into conspiracies against Aus-
tralia ; and it is wonderful how unanimous are
the Insects on the one subject that can keep them
together—their common grudge against the greater
power which has overshadowed their personal im-
portance and dignity—the importance of Wade
and the regal dignity of Bent.
It is necessary to fully consider the State
Premiers’ proposals for the division of the
revenues of Australia to understand the enormous
dimensions of the insolence of the Insects—those
Insects that have apparently gone mad with the
contemplation of their own importance, even as
some people have become dangerous lunatics on
being made J.P. Their proposals, in effect, are
these: —
As Regards the States.
(1) That the State Governments shall possess the entire
railway revenue as at present, and all future increases of
railway revenue.
(2) That the State Governments shall retain all the land
revenues as heretofore, and all increases in land values
arising through Federal works and the expenditure of
Federal money.
(3) That the State Governments shall retain all the
revenues arising from direct taxation, and all in-
creases in these revenues shall be their sole pro-
perty. (It has even been laid down —and laid
down over and over again—by State Frights persons
like Carruthers and Senator Gould, that there is no
Federal right of direct taxation, and that this source of
revenue belongs wholly to the State.) Present direct
taxes include land-tax, income-tax, stamp duties, probate
and succession duties, business licenses, etc.
(4) That the State Governments shall retain all the
revenues from water supply and other works, all the
mining revenue, and revenue from fines, fees, forfeitures
and miscellaneous sources, and all increases in these
revenues.
(5) That the State Governments shall have a first mort-
gage on the Customs and Excise revenue to the extent
of £7,000,000 or £7,500,000 per annum.
(6) That the State Governments shall have a second mort-
gage on the Customs and Excise revenue —or, rather, a
first mortgage on what is left of the Customs and Excise
revenue after the above-mentioned £7,000,0000r£7,500,000
has been paid them. It is suggested that this should take
the form of a payment by the Commonwealth to the State
Governments of so much per inhabitant on all population in
excess of that already existing. Various sums, from 10s.
to 30s. per inhabitant, have been suggested. It has also
been suggested that the State Governments should
receive £7,500,000 certain and the half of what is left, so
that, out of a tariff revenue of £10,000,000, they should
take £8,750,000, and leave the Commonwealth £1,250,000.
And as Regards the Commonwealth.
(1) That the Commonwealth should have the postal
revenue, which, last year, was exactly £179,789 net (that
is, surplus of revenue over expenditure).
(2) That it should have the miscellaneous receipts as at
present. These last year amounted to £55,761.
(3) That it should have the variable and uncertain scrap
of Customsand Excise revenue that would remain after the
State’s two claims are satisfied. And it must be remem-
bered that Customs revenue, at all events, is more likely
to diminish in proportion to population than to increase.
As the country manufactures more it imports less. The
United States, prosperous as it is, collects only about
£1 7s. 6d. per inhabitant in Customs and Excise. The
State Frights in Australia have seriously suggested that,
as regards the first 4,000,000 or so of Australian popula-
tion, the State Governments should be guaranteed in
perpetuity a sum equal to about £llss. per head as their
share, and should also receive a huge indefinite subsidy
in addition.
* * * »
And it must be further remembered that in thus
“demanding” almost the whole of the Customs
and Excise revenue, and in declaring what
Customs and Excise revenue they will accept, and
what they won’t accept, and in announcing what
they will or won’t put up with, and in explaining
what they will tolerate and what they will repu-
diate and revolushe about, these Local Insects are
dealing with a fund on which, after the year 1910,
they have no claim whatever. They don’t own a
penny of it any more than Joe COOK oyuis
Windsor Castle. They have just as much right
to it as the writer of this has to Wade’s clothes
and furniture. They are political brigands—
roaring, impudent, blustering klephts or highway-
men—pure and simple. Owing to the altera-
tion which George Reid engineered in
the Constitution, the right of the State
Governments to any share at all in the Customs
and Excise revenues ends at the beginning of
1911, and after that these revenues are entirely
Federal property. The Commonwealth, however,
doesn’t propose to take advantage of its powers.
It offers £6,000,000 a year gradually rising to
£8,750,000 a year, which latter is a far larger
amount than the States have ever yet received,
and it also offers to relieve the States of their
heavy old-age pension expenditure and other
charges. It offers, in addition, to gradually pay
off the debts which the States have contracted,
making a present to the States of the railways,
etc., into which the borrowed money has been
put. And in reply the State brigands demand
practically everything, and the Commonwealth’s
clothes into the bargain.
* * • »
These same State brigands have amazingly
liberal ideas as to what the Australian Govern-
ment should pay out of the precarious scrap of
revenue which they propose should be allotted to
it. It is to pay the cost of the Australian
Parliament, and the Governor-General, and
maintain the Observatory, Statistical Department,
High Court, and a multitude of small items.
It is to look after beacons, lighthouses, etc.,
round 7000 miles of coast. It is to assume the
Northern Territory debt, and pay interest
thereon. It is to open up and settle the Northern
Territory—an area of over 500,000 square miles,
which requires roads and railways and all manner
of things before it becomes a payable proposition.
Then the Australian Government is to build two
transcontinental railways over 2200 miles in
length, and thus incidentally increase the value of
State lands and add to the State revenues—even
the most lamentable State Erighter can’t deny
that, for defence purposes alone, these lines are
essential. The Australian Treasury is to pay the
almost inevitable loss of the first few years on
these lines. It is also requested to pay the States
a huge sum for “resumed properties’’—a cheerful
proposition has been made that the bill for light-
houses alone should be fixed at £16,000,000.
It is urged to build a Federal capital
immediately on a site dictated by one of the
States, and to construct the necessary water
works, etc. And, above all, it is expected to pro-
vide in a fairly adequate way for the defence of
this great country—our country. Britain has
taken its fleet out of the Pacific, and has told us,
rather plainly and not at all obscurely, that we
must in future carry a much bigger share of the
naval and military burden than heretofore, and
that it is up to us to do something like our fair
share in the work of defence. It has distinctly
hinted that it won’t fight with a shred of en-
thusiasm for the White Australia ideal, which is
our ideal exclusively; and that we must carry
that responsibility, or most of it, ourselves. In
Britain, defence absorbs more than half the tax
revenue —more than half the Customs, Excise,
property-tax, income-tax, land-tax, house-tax,
stamp duties, estate duties, probate duties, legacy
duties, succession duties and sundries. Now that
Australia has received so many broad hints to put
its house in order it also needs money for defence —
much money for much defence, unless we are one
day to become wood-and-water-joeys to an Asiatic
conqueror. And the State Insects propose that
there should be made available for defence about
one-twentieth of the Customs and Excise revenue
only. And, in addition to all the other burdens, the
State Premiers don’t mind if the Commonwealth
takes over the responsibility of old-age pensions.
* * * *
And the unspeakable State Premiers —energeti-
cally dividing in theory the property that doesn’t
belong to them, and cursing with shameless
effrontery because there isn’t more to steal —pro-
pose that the Australian Government should go
forth and face these stupendous responsibilities
with practically no resources save a precarious third
mortgage on the Customs and Excise proceeds.
For it must not be forgotten that the State Insects
have declared over and over again that the Corn-
wealth has no powers of direct taxation, and that
any attempt to levy Federal direct taxation will be
sternly resisted at law by the Insects. According
to the Insects’ own declaration, the Common-
wealth’s own resources will be legally limited by
the Insects’ scheme to the paltn - credit balance
shown by the Post Office and to the proceeds of a
third lien on the Customs and Excise. A.nd the
State Insects have already been suggesting the
adoption of penny postage throughout Australia to
swallow up the Commonwealth’s little postal sur-
plus, though if the Australian Premier replied by a
similar interference with State business, and a
demand that railway fares between Sydney and
Parramatta should be reduced, the State Insects
would probably burst with rage and amazement.
And Wade’s party strives hard to return
low-tariffists to the Australian Parliament
to cut down the Customs revenue. And Wade’s
Cabinet claims that all goods shall come in
free if they are imported by the State Govern-
ments —even if they are not for the State Govern-
ments’ use but for private sale ; in other words,
that the State Governments shall have power, by
constituting themselves general importers and
dealers, to reduce the Customs revenue to any
extent they please. They might even, if Wade
carries his point at law, reduce it to a figure at
which the fixed subsidy, which the Insects demand
shall be secured to the States, would swallow more
than the whole tariff revenue and leave the Aus-
tralian Government not only without a copper,
but compelled to borrow money to pay the
State subsidies. Presumably the idea is
that the Commonwealth should live on loans.
But the credit of a Commonwealth with so little
security to offer, and with its revenues so com-
pletely mortgaged, would be just about nil—cer-
tainly it would be worse than that of any of the
States. Still, by way of making dead sure of the
financial ruin of the Australian Government, the
State Insects further lay it down that there must
be no interference with their own borrowing
powers, and that they must be at full liberty to
rush the London market with loans just when the
Commonwealth is striving to raise 2d. to go on
with, and thus spoil its chance. And yet nobody
has hanged any of these State Insects !
* * * *
It must be specially remembered that, in most
cases, and so far as the evidence goes, this dis-
graceful attitude is taken up, not because the
State Premiers require money, but out of sheer
malice towards and hatred of Australia. Take,
for example, the case of N.S.W. That State last
year received £3,025,137 from the Commonwealth,
which was £400,937 more than it was legally en-
titled to under the Braddon clause. Its Insects
gave no thanks for this £400,937—0n1y coarse abuse.
Under the new arrangement proposed by Treasurer
Lyne N.S.W. would begin by receiving about
£2,300,000. It would also be relieved of £500,000
now paid in old-age pensions, for the Common-
wealth would make pensions a Federal matter.
That would make the return equal to £2,800,000.
Further, it would be relieved of the payment of
£350,000 per annum sinking fund, that re-
sponsibility being taken over by the Com-
monwealth. That would make the payment
equal to £3,150,000. Also, N.S.W. would
be relieved of the cost of maintaining lighthouses,
which work the Commonwealth is to take over.
Therefore, for the first year under the lavishly
generous new arrangement which the Deakin-
Lyne Government offers, N.S.W. would be at
least £200,000 better off than it was last year,
quite apart from any increase in its railway and
land-tax and other revenues. Now last year the
N.S.W. Government professed to have a surplus
of over £1,510,000. Therefore the Australian
Government provides that in the first years of its
proposed new arrangement, N.S.W. will have
every chance of having an annual surplus of
£1,700,000. And after that the amount paid to
N.S.W. by the Federal Government is to increase
yearly till the increase amounts to fully £1,000,000
a year. In other words, on the basis of last year’s
figures, the Commonwealth proposes to see that
N.S.W. is provided with money enough to pay all
its expenses, and with a surplus beginning at
about £1,700,000 a year and increasing till it
reaches £2,700,000 a year. When The Bulletin
wrote up this subject last week it recognised that
the Federal scheme was a most liberal one; it was
only as the details were threshed out amid a whirl
of acrimonious discussion that this paper realised
how magnificently liberal it was. With from
£1,700,000 to £2,700,000 a year available out of
revenue for public works, with the income from
these works to constantly swell the revenue and
make the N.S.W. State receipts bigger and bigger
(and if the money is invested with any care it
ought to make the revenue £50,000 bigger each
year, or £500,000 bigger each decade), it is difficult
to see why Wade and the snarling rags that follow
him are not satisfied, especially as all this is money
to which they haven’t a shadow of a legal claim.
But they are not satisfied. Instead, they are
raving like a cataract of wild animals.
* • * *
The Australian Government, in its anxiety to
pacify the thankless State harpies, has offered to
divide among them in subsidies, old-age piensions,
sinking fund payments, etc., almost all its exist-
ing revenue. For the money to put Australia’s
defences in order, to open up and settle and
garrison the Northern Territory, to protect the
White Australia policy, to build the two trans-
continental railways and their necessary branches
without which two-thirds of the coast-line lies
open to any and every invader, for postal and
telegraph extension, for old-age pensions—in fact,
for the reconstruction of Australia —it depends
mostly on the future increase of revenue. Promptly
the State Insects demand that they shall have the
bulk of that increase, and, for all they care,
defences, transcontinental railways, and Australia
generally may go to the Devil. They demand that
they shall keep every penny of increase in State
sources of revenue, and shall also get most of
the increase on Federal sources of revenue—this
despite the fact that they are already offered a
first lien on the Federal revenue for a huge
amount to not one penny of which have they
any legal right. And the loudest clamorer is
Wade of N.S.W. — Wade, whose Government,
last year, abolished £600,000 of taxation on the
ground that it had more money than it knew
what to do with, and who says that, despite that
reduction, he has this year £1,500,000 surplus, and
is simply bloated with wealth as well as with
arrogance.
It is difficult to find words to describe the utter
despicableness of the business, so far, at least, as
Wade and Bent, the representatives of the two
rich States, are concerned. Their conduct can
only be summed up as a scheme to destroy all pos-
sibility of Australian defence, to make the settle-
ment of the Northern Territory impossible, to
make the transcontinental railways impossible, to
utterly wipe out the future of United Australia.
Their ideal seems to be a bloated State Govern-
ment bulging out with millions that it doesn’t
know what to do with, and a Commonwealth
undefended, helpless, and in rags. The result
would be that Sydney and Melbourne would have
stacks of money for statues, and garish public
buildings, and Empire Day celebrations, and
other things that come within the range of State
control; while their defences —which are a Federal
matter —would consist of one ragged sentinel and
a rusted popgun. And when the enemy came he
would probably be an undiscriminating ruffian
who couldn’t distinguish between State and Com-
monwealth ; and he would put the solitary Federal
sentinel to rout, and then bombard the State
garishness into dust, and take the State surplus
as an indemnity. And he might—-it is just pos-
sible he might—hang Bent and Wade; but such
luck would be almost too much to hope for. The
country that doesn’t attend to its own business
seldom gets anyone else to attend to its business
for it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Going to Quietly Pocket £3,000,000.
As that disorderly and hysterical political female,
Mr. Wade, of N.S.W., further develops his
financial grievance against the Commonwealth, it
becomes more and more of a very bad joke. Thus
at Rockdale, one day last week, he again ex-
pounded the public rat which gnaws in the State
Frights garret: —
He asked them if they would believe that although
New South Wales and the other States were entitled this
year to a total return of £9,000,000, and to more as the
Customs duties increased from time to time, William
Lyne proposed to offer the magnificent sum of £6,000,000
only ? “ Thev are,” emphasised the Premier, “ going- to
quietly pocket £3,000,000 for the coming year alone.”
And there is serious talk of making the owner of
these amazing reasoning powers a JUDGE, of all
things in the world. On the face of things, a
sensible community wouldn’t make him a dog-
kennel. To begin with —if the States are, as Wade
alleges, not only entitled to £9,000,000 this'year,
but also “to more as the Customs duties increase
from time to time,” then there is no need for all
this fuss and fury and these threats of appeals to
the people. It is only necessary to sue the
Commonwealth in the High Court and get the
money. And, on the other hand, if the States are
not so entitled, then Wade is a dealer in false-
hood and a stirrer-up of strife upon lying evidence.
Again, if Wade’s statement is true, why doesn’t
he produce the evidence? For it is an amazing
and incredible statement. Everybody seemed to
think until now that after 1910 the State Govern-
ments ceased to be entitled under the Constitution
to any refund from the Commonwealth. News-
papers, politicians and the community generally
have been talking of the matter for years—and
now it appears that they were all mistaken, and
have been mistaken all along. Yet the man who
makes this stupendous discovery doesn’t produce
his authority, or threaten to maintain his case at
law ; he merely has public hysterics. And,
apart from that, Wade asks the community
to be very angry because the Commonwealth
is going to “ quietly pocket ” £3,000,000. Wade’s
own Government quietly pockets about
£13,000,000, and Wade doesn’t seem to see
anything remarkable about that. Will Wade
come down from the lofty but idiotic heights on
which he bellows, and say exactly how much the
Commonwealth ought to “pocket”? How much
does he regard as a fair thing for the maintenance
of a Government which has to look after a conti-
nent about the size of all Europe —to supply posts,
telegraphs and telephones, lighthouses, lightships,
beacons and buoys, to maintain the departments
of State, to pay bounties and old-age pensions, to
provide land and sea defence for an area of nearly
3,000,000 square miles, to build transcontinental
railways, and to do a few hundred sundries?
How much would Wade do it for ? That person
spends about £5,500,000 a year in N.S.W.
alone, quite apart from the cost of working
the railways, or the interest on the public
debt, and with no military or naval expenses to
provide for, and with no posts or telegraphs to
maintain? The £5,500,000 just goes; in the Aus-
tralian Year Book £648,811 of it was last year
simply described as “Miscellaneous items,”
apparently because it drifted away so indefinitely
that it was impossible to particularise. Now,
seeing that N.S.W. only stands for a little over
one-third of the Commonwealth’s population, and
a little over one-tenth of the Commonwealth’s
area, and considering that N.S.W. gets through
about £5,500,000 a year without including in that
sum any provision for building or maintenance or
working of railways, interest on public debt, posts,
telegraphs, telephones, military defence or naval
defence —in short, it gets through that amount
irrespective of all the really big items that go to
make up the cost of government—what amount
will all Australia need to spend on the big items
that go to make up the real cost of government.
Britain gets through some £60,000,000 a year on
defence alone—equal to about £1 9s. per
inhabitant annually for this one item. And
the bounding Wade goes on like a madman over
a matter of £3,000,000 (about 15s. per head), not
for defence merely but for all purposes. .Yet it
isn’t Wade’s money—barring the 15s. he will have
to pay himself. Neither he nor his Government
has a shred of claim to it. The Bulletin asks
the hysterical political female Wade to show
some vestige of political decency and fair play,
and come down from his pinnacle of shrieks, and
supply these details: —
(1) If he were Deakin, how much money would he run
the Commonwealth for—including posts, telegraphs,
telephones, quarantine, lighthouses, beacons, etc., t ' ra ” s [
continental railways, old-age pensions, land and sea de-
fence, and all the rest? . ,
(2) How would he get the money except by taxing the
people of the States? Would he get it from iranee or
Germany, „or where? . .
(3) Having put down his figure, which is apparently to
be a very small figure, judging by the row he makes
about the Federal figure, how would he account, for being
able to do such marvels of Federal economy in theory
while in his State capacity he gets through some
£5,500,000 a year in paying for a mere dust of small joDS
no interest on public debt, railway expenses, railway
construction costs, posts, telegraphs, or defence outi y
being included—-for an area which is only about one-tent
of the Commonwealth ?
If Wade can’t, or won’t, answer these questions,
then he is down to the level of the turgid but irre-
sponsible Sunday orator who shouts at large in
the Domain —the mere blathering denouncer ana
destroyer who waves a garish flag and urges the
people to “ Awake ! Arise ! ”
-♦
The Wickedness of the “ Class Cry.”
Significant indeed was the bitter complaint of
C. G. Wade at Rockdale (N.S.W.) anent the
“class feeling” that he alleged was being
“wickedly engendered ’ by his opponents.


“A cause,” he wailed, “that could only
win by abuse and misrepresentation and a
bogus class cry, was a cause that did not deserve
to win.” All of this because ‘ ‘ two things had been
charged against the Government —one an act of
administration in connection with the Common-
wealth Oil Corporation lease in the Wolgan Val-
ley, the other the failure to pass the Minimum
Wage Bill.” At last Federal elections, G. Reid,
with Wade’s expressed approval and earnest assist-
ance, attempted to seize the Prime Minister-
ship of Australia, solely on “abuse, misrepresen-
tation, and a bogus class cry.’” Two years
ago that egregious old politician stumped
almost every yard of N.S.W., most of
Victoria, and a fair portion of the remaining
States of the Federation, doing all that mendacious
man might to set class against class. The working-
people whom G. Reid lumped together under the
common designation of “socialists”—having pre-
viously explained that socialists were (1) thieves,
(2) dissolute persons, and (3) atheists—were held
up to the scorn of reputable citizens from a mul-
titude of platforms and from a dazzlingly
diverse assortment of viewpoints. In the
ardor of his crusade for the purpose of
setting class against class, G. Reid stuck liter-
ally at nothing. He pointed out to quaking
Mothers’ Meetings that the return of the Demo-
cratic party to power meant “ the breaking up of
their homes”; religious people were assured that
Labor legislators were, to a man, virulent enemies
of the Christian faith ; Social Purity enthusiasts
that a Deakin-Watson Administration meant the
inauguration of an era of free love. In a final
magnificent burst of untruthfulness, electors were
implored, through Reid’s two morning papers, to
support him as against Anarchy — viz., Watson.
During the whole outrageous performance
Wade never protested once. In fact, his
control over his feelings in this regard
was so marked that he plunged into the
fray himself on four separate occasions, and
repeated in substance the slanders already levelled
by G. Reid against the “ Labor-Socialists.” The
Australian people showed their appreciation of
Reid’s methods, and those of his adherents, by
hurling a number of his most-valued Parliamen-
tary supporters out of politics altogether, and
sending him back to the Federal House with a
broken and dejected minority behind him. And
straightaway the “class cry” slumped. “Anti-
Socialism ” became a term of derision. Carruthers
—an infinitely more astute hand at gauging
public feeling than Reid —refused absolutely,
despite the lamentations and threats of the
Sydney press, to have anything to do with the
fatal policy at the State election which followed.
In effect he told the Ma State electors he would
not be found dead with the anti-Socialist label
about his person. Wade is not a particularly
perceptive man, but when a fact is rolled right up
against him, as it were, he manages to discern it.
The fact he sees most clearly just now is that
Reid’s old cry —the “class cry” he approved
warmly two years ago—-is political spiff goods, so
far as the Deform politician is concerned.
The Yelp Inevitable.
Sydney Telegraph couldn’t resist the temptation
to cry down a potential Australian industry in deal-
ing (15/5/’08) with the enthusiastic remarks of the
visiting Scotch experts anent local fishing possi-
bilities. On one point those who are qualified to
speak are agreed, viz. : that the prospects, under
the new Federal bounty scheme, of the establish-
ment of profitable curing and canning businesses
in Australia are limitless. On the authority of
H. C. Dannevig (a man who has made a
life-study of the subject) “ the harbors and
estuaries of Australia swarm with fish equal for
canning and sardine-making purposes to any im-
ported to the Commonwealth.” But the
Telegraph, out of its large experience in the
political Stinking Fish industry, holds otherwise.
It cannot well deny the plentifulness of the local
supply, so it impugns its quality. Faced with the
proposition of the ten-mile-wide herring shoal
which the astounded Scotchmen ran into during
their trip “outside,” the paper says sourly :
But it would be unwise to jump to the conclusion that
the ten-mile-wide shoal of herrings, etc., which our
visitors claim to have seen, would pay as well to catch as
the herrings of the North Atlantic.
And it goes on to give the foreign fish, which
arrives here mysteriously in a tin, a boost at the
expense of the Australian article :
The “caller herrin’ new drawn frae the Forth” is a
creature of his own environment, like the French sardine,
which, though in appearance much resembling a Port
Jackson yellow-tail, is quite a different kind of proposition
when placed on a dinner plate, etc., etc.
The truth as to the average imported fish of the
herring tribe labelled “ French sardine ” is that it
is no sardine at all. The imported “French
sardine” is indeed as much of a snare and a delu-
sion as the normal imported bottle of French
“vintage champagne.” A computation was made
recently, which showed that Russia and the
United Kingdom took between them practically
all the genuine vintage champagnes of France
each year; the surplus which they allowed to
trickle elsewhere was practically negligible. The
rest of us buy and drink for the most part a
bogus “ vintage wine.” The analogy holds good
in regard to foreign tinned fish of the herring
tribe. The waters around France and Britain
don’t hold enough sardines to account for
nearly all the so-named beasts in tins that are
annually exported from France and Germany and
Chicago, and eaten by trusting folks in Freetrade
newspaper offices as “genuine French.” Aus-
tralia’s position in regard to its coming big-scale
fish industry is (1) that the Australian Govern-
ment provides an effective bounty on canned and
cured fish ; (2) that the fish exist in immense
quantities ; (3) that they are easily catchable ;
(4) that they are of excellent quality. As against
these things, this country has the usual dreary old
gang writing down and snarling at its fish-assets,
in an earnest attempt to prove that nothing of the
Bort is of any use to man or cat unless it
conies from somewhere abroad and carries a
foreign label.
♦
The Bega, Deceased.
The Bulletin’s Principal Mariner writes
The Bega inquiry is adjourned, sine die, to allow of
certain displacement calculations being made, but it has,
at any rate, so far as it has gone, brought to light many
things about the amazing incompetence of the crew.
Witness after witness testified to this fact—from the
master downwards.
The master in his evidence stated that none of his
regular crew were on board. The men he had were not
accustomed to the handling of cargo. Yet they did all
the stowage.
The chief engineer had not been, in his engineering
capacity, to sea for over two years. The second engineer
cad a shore-driver’s certificate, and no sea experience.
This witness is now missing, and all attempts to trace his
whereabouts have, up to the present, proved futile. His
evidence ought to be interesting, if not valuable.
Crawley, A. 8., stated that he had been at sea off and
on for about fouryears ; the proportion of “ off ” to “ on ”
was notgone into. Being questioned by Dr. Brissenden,
this witness admitted that he only knew a little about the
compass, also that thirurs generally were in a state of
muddle.
The stewardess, cross-examined, stated that the chief
officer had admitted to her that he was full up of the trip,
and would be uncommonly glad to get back to Sydney ;
also that the ship maintained its list to port, in spite of
all his efforts to counteract it by stowing the avail-
able cargo on the starboard side.
Some interesting features re the condition of the ship’s
hull are embodied in the following facts:—
Witnesses called by the Illawarra Co. admitted the ship
to be 25 years old. It had run during that period without
accident, successfully weathering the Nemesis and Mait-
land gales. Why these two gales should be accepted as
the local bad-weather standard, this scribe fails to see,
considering that neither the Nemesis nor the Maitland
could, by any stretch of imagination, be called a top-
notcher.
At the last half-yearly meeting of the co. the chair-
man’s report stated that for some years past a sum
averaging £2OOO per annum had been spent in repairs on
the Bega. It was insured at the time of its loss for —so it
was stated—£sooo. As the insurance might not repre-
sent nearly the value of the ship, it wouldn’t be fair to ask
how dilapidated a £5OOO vessel is when it requires £2OOO
worth of annual repair ; still the figures are interesting.
With regard to the carriage of deck cargoes, naval
architect Reeks pointed out that the awning deck of
vessels of the Bega type was, by Lloyd’s reasoning, in-
tended solely for the protection of passengers. If this is
the case, then the question of deck cargoes on N.S.W.
coasting steamers wants some close scrutiny. It was
admitted in this instance that a weight of 15 tons (and
live weight at that) was placed on this upper or awning
deck out of a total cargo weight of less than 100 tons. The
shipowners’ creed on the coast is to regard decks, whether
upper or otherwise, as space for the stowage of cargo,
but that theory may be carried too far. Both outgoing
and incoming coastal steamers sometimes appear not so
much specimens of naval architecture as perambulating
produce stores.
The loadline also appears to have had a chequered
career during this vessel’s lifetime. It was lowered in
1901 to compensate for a considerable loss of buoyancy,
due to the cutting of cattle doors. It was raised again
about a couple of years ago, in conformity with British
Board of Trade up-to-date ideas. (This was the British
official idea of stifling foreign competition.) Apparently
the loadline mark had the tired feeling badly, and sought
a permanent haven of rest in the Pacific, where surveyors
and their like cease from troubling.
In face of the overwhelming testimony as to the crew’s
general incompetence, the master states it was passed by
the Department’s inspectors as competent.
Practically the Department itself is on trial, although
by a peculiar juggle now allowable under N.S.W. mari-
time law, it is enabled to shift the onus of proof as to sea-
worthiness, etc., on to the shoulders of the company’s
officers.
The Department conducts the preliminary inquiry, col-
lects evidence, practically appoints the assessors, and
generally, through its counsel, conducts and acts as the
prosecution.
The Bega case furnishes potent argument against allow-
ing any outside interference with the provisions of the
Federal Navigation Bill, no matter whether it comes from
British or State sources.
The Disguise of W. Knox.
The Victorian Female National Association had
an afternoon tea, or an at home, the other even-
ing whereat the chief speaker was W. Knox, of
the Hat. In his speech Knox said that the time
had arrived (it is always arriving with men like
Knox, but never seems to quite get there) for the
establishment, in Parliament, of a “Constitu-
tional Party.” After much hard thinking over
the political principles of the present members of
the Australian Parliament, Knox came gravely
to the conclusion that no fewer than 43 of
the Representatives were fit and proper
subjects for his new party. Indeed, said Knox,
this was really a modest estimate as “ he thought
the working majority would be greater.” Then
William solemnly unfolded the banner of his
new party ; and immediately the flimsy disguise
worn by William blew away, and the “Consti-
tutional Party ” stood revealed as the same old
hard-shell Tory crowd that has so often tried to
bamboozle the electors. William’s platform has
10 planks in it, the first being the good, ancient,
Tory shibboleth of “Loyalty to the throne and
Empire.” Some of the others are worth quoting :
(2) Maintenance of the integrity and intention of the
Commonwealth Constitution.
(3) Maintenance of the full rights and privileges of the
States.
(4) Sound finance in the interests alike of the Common-
wealth and the States.
These three vague and shaky planks show that
Knox has joined himself to the State Frights
party, and they are enough in themselves to kill
William’s new movement. There is practical
unanimity as to the necessity of altering the
Federal Constitution to provide for the taking
over by the Commonwealth of State debts con-
tracted since Federation. Also, a proposal to
alter the Constitution to enable the railways to be
federated would be a wise and popular proposal.
Both of these alterations would badly fracture the
“ integrity of the Constitution ” as the Constitu-
tion stands at present. But, of course, the drift
of William’s three planks is easily seen. There
is a rapidly-growing desire for a wide extension of
Federal powers ; and, as most of the States are
more or less Tory, William and his class view
the acquisition of more power by the Democratic
Parliament with horror. Plank 7 of Bill’s plat-
form reads :
Effective Protection, with humanitarian conditions for
the worker.
Just how Joe Cook, and Reid, and Wilks, and
Kelly are going to swallow, or stand on, that
plank isn’t very clear. Knox loftily explained
that “ with the passage of the present tariff he
believed this disturbing element would be re-
moved for some years.” But, owing largely to
the disgraceful votes given by some of the allegedly
Protectionist members of Knox’s own party, it is
fairly probable that the next Parliament will be
elected on the fiscal issue. The new tariff is an
improvement on the old one, but it is lamentably
deficient in scores of directions. So the new
party hoped for by William of the Hat has an
astonishing small show of materialising. In fact,
when it gets into action, it will probably be found
to consist mainly of William himself and his Hat.
+
The Divorce Laws.
Justice Hood, of Victoria, last week was moved
to indignation by the “collusion” divorce. He
said :
These cases of desertion are so common that it is quite
time the attention of the Legislature was called to them.
In many cases there is collusion. Of that there can be no
question. The matter has reached such a pass that the
Legislature ought either to make divorce easier than it
is, or to take a step backwards. These things, at pre-
sent, constitute a public scandal, and scandals can only
be stopped by removing the bar to collusion altogether,
and taking the burden off the Courts by allowing people
practically to divorce themselves, at their own sweet
wills.
The present attitude of the law is, that if Mr.
Johnson wishes to divorce Mrs. Johnson, and
she is unwilling, that is all right; if she is
willing, that is all wrong. The latter episode
or circumstance is “ collusion,” and if discovered
is a bar against relief. From the point of view of
common sense it would seem that the best of all
reasons for dissolving a marriage bond is that both
the parties thereto are thoroughly sick of it and
wish to be released from one another. But the
Law does not see things in that light. It insists
that before a divorce is granted one of the parties
must oppose the dissolution of the marriage,
either really or apparently. A recent Victorian
Divorce Act (that of Premier Shiels) afforded a
way out for unhappily married folk, and .that way
out has proved a boon to public morality and
an aid to individual happiness. Desertion for
a term without any other conjugal offence was
made a ground of divorce, and “refusal of marital
rights ” was defined as desertion. So there is no
absolute need, when a marriage has proved un-
happy, for one or other of the parties to drag a
sordid, squalid tale of misconduct or cruelty
before the public. The parties can agree to
“desert” one another, and secure freedom on
that ground. Of course, that is bad for the
penny papers. It is bad for the lawyers who
fatten on the obscene evidence of the Divorce
Courts. It is bad for the Court-loafers and
the students of shady literature. But from
every reasonable point of view it is good,
whether it is called collusion or not. In
time public opinion will recognise that; and
will recognise openly, as a valid and reason-
able ground for divorce, that a married couple
wish for divorce, not insisting on misconduct, or
cruelty, or even desertion on one side or the other.
Those people who imagine that a consequence of
such divorce reform would be a general loosening
of the marriage bond, take a perverted and un-
wholesome view of human nature. Prompt relief
in the case of unhappy marriages would do
nothing to attack happy ones. Logically there is
no resting plaoe between no divorce and facile
divorce.
The Brutality of Freetrade.
B. H. Morgan, the British Manufacturers’ Asso-
ciation’s representative, now in Australia, uncon-
sciously supplies another argument in favor of
High Protection, and makes the Freetrade Labor-
ite seem even a greater anomaly than he looked
before. Discussing the possible establishment of
factories in Australia by people who have hitherto
shipped the goods from Europe and other foreign
parts, Morgan remarked to a daily paper that
the foreign manufacturer “must not only have
a sufficiency of labor, but also a surplus of labor...
With a bare sufficiency... in good times the
workman would control the situation.” That, in
a few words, is the condition which exists in
Europe; and that is the condition which an
unprotected Australia would have to bump up
against in the matter of manufactures. Given
Protection, however, combined with Arbitration
or Wages Boards, and it isn’t necessary to have
four men struggling after three men’s jobs. But
Morgan comes from a country which has neither
Protection nor Arbitration, and in their absence
the manufacturer whom he represents finds it
necessary to resort to cold brutality—for of course
a system which requires that there should be four
men struggling for three men’s food is cold
brutality. Neither Arbitration nor Wages Boards
would, however, by themselves, save either the
manuufacturer or the workmen. They might
regulate wages, but if they didn’t regulate
them low enough to block foreign competition,
the factories would simply shut up, and there
wouldn’t be jobs for even the three men. Join
Protection on to Arbitration or Wages Boards,
and you get the complete chain : the Protection
saves the manufacturer from the competition
which compels him to practise the brutal system
frankly admitted by his representative; and
the Arbitration or Wages Board subsequently
saves him from being crushed through the aboli-
tion of the labor-competition which he finds
essential nowadays.
♦
How to Make Melbourne a Real Port.
William Ferguson, of Maoriland, pretty gener-
ally recognised as the leading harbor expert
in the southern hemisphere, practically endorses
and amplifies certain proposals set forth in The
Bulletin of April 23. Premier Bent engaged
Ferguson to report on the best way to make Mel-
bourne an up-to-date port for deep-water vessels ;
and after examining various proposals, the expert
recommends an open cut from the Victoria dock
(lower Yarra) to the Bay, running into the latter
at a point just north of Port Melbourne railway
pier. He would have this cut, or dock, 900 ft.
wide and 35ft. deep at low water, while its
length would be some 7000 ft. He would
start building it from the Bay end, and
would extend it as required. He proposes
to let it stop about 300yds. short of the Yarra
for some years, his plans providing later on for a
railway bridge over the Yarra, below the big
dock, to be used to transport goods to the north
end of Spencer-street. The passenger traffic by
the railways down both sides of the cut he would
run into Flinders-street station by a junction with
the existing Port and St. Kilda lines. Also, he
would put large, two-storey sheds, served by
railway lines, along both sides of the cut, to-
gether with hydraulic or electric cranes, coal tips
and shoots, etc. The port entrances and the Bay
channels he would deepen to 36ft., and the Heads
entrance to 40ft. for a width of 2000 ft. He further
recommends the widening and lengthening of the
two Williamstown piers and the deepening of the
water alongside them. And, finally, he says, in
effect, that there is no hope of carrying out his
proposals adequately, or even of securing any
material progress, so long as the five different
bodies that now exist continue to potter about and
pretend to manage Melbourne port. He would
have one body or Trust, composed of a
paid chairman, who should give his whole
time to its affairs ; and four members.
This Trust should have the whole control
and management of the port right from the
Heads to Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne. He would
also empower it to act as wharfinger, and to re-
ceive, store and deliver cargo, and to construct
and manage cool stores, provide accommodation
and labor for grading, etc., and assist in any way
the export trade of the State. The financial side
of the problem may, he admits, be embarrassing
at first; but as the expenditure would be
gradual and only in accordance with require-
ments, he claims that his scheme presents
no insuperable difficulty. It is at this
point that Engineer Ferguson has over-
looked one item, viz., that the land through
which this canal will run, and the areas adjacent
on which cool stores, sheds, factories, etc., will be
built, and also the area beyond the Victoria dock
which can be similarly utilised, is all State land ;
and if Parliament would hand it, or most of it,
over to the new Port Trust in perpetuity, to be
leased but not sold, there would be an ample
revenue, steadily increasing step by step with the
Trust’s expenditure on dockage, etc., to meet
most, if not all, of the demands of Ferguson’s
scheme. This scheme is as wide, as comprehen-
sive, and as permanent as anything is likely to be
in this world of vain Bents and hopeless Wades ;
and it remains now to be seen whether Thomas
the Roarer, and Swinburne, and the hilarious
Peacock will be afraid of it.
♦ 1 -
The Curse and Desolation of Cow.
The crowd to which the Philp party appealed most
strongly during the recent Queensland elections
was the farming class. That body cocked up its
collective ear to the outpourings of back numbers
such as Denham and Barnes, and listened to their
tale of the horrors that were to overtake Hodge
when the Wages Boards Bill came into operation.
There is no record that a thought was given to
Hodge No. 2, but some extracts from the reports
of school inspectors were lately placed before
Banana]and Legislature, and they throw a lurid
light on Baby Hodge’s life and prospects. Some
extracts follow :
State School at King’s Creek.
The children here are, with few exceptions, below the
average in mental power. They are a depressingly dull
lot; some ot them seem half-dazed. The chief industry
here is dairying, and a large percentage of the pupils are
employed before and after school in milking, and they
appear to have little energy left for school work.
State School at Bergen.
This school is well conducted and organised. The
pupils are diligent and attentive in a general way, but
most of them appear tired and weary from the early and
late rather severe work at home in connection with dairy
requirements. The mechanical work is generally very
satisfactory, but the intellectual is not so good.
State School at Glencoe.
The services of the children at home, as soon as the age
of twelve years is reached, appear to outweigh the educa-
tional advantages which they would reap by a two
or three years’ course in the higher classes. Only on*
pupil is above the fourth class. Last year only three
pupils were above the third class.
State School at Glenvale.
The upper classes are weak in English, in sums, and in
writing. The pupils do not appear to be very industrious,
but from their attitudes, and the fact of some coming at
11 o’clock, it is evident that they have much work to do
at home before school, and arrive tired and listless. To
my mind this accounts for most of the weakness. It is a
constant uphill fight for the teacher.
State School at Templin.
The children here are mentally dull and slow-witted in
a marked degree. The main industry of the district is
dairying, which means long hours, hard work, and mono-
tonous routine for both parents and children.
A dull, unlettered, mentally-shambling, mentally-
sodden race—that is the legacy of Cow to Queens-
land. And even an Agricultural Wages Board
Bill won’t meet the case. What is required is an
Act for the Emancipation of Baby Hodge, the
infant slave who is made a semi-idiot through
the ceaseless pursuit of an animal that is itself
semi-idiotic.
♦
“Syndicate” Railways in Queensland.
“Virgil ” from Brisbane :
In a recent article in The Bulletin the Queensland
Mount Elliott tramway and the Burketown-Lilydale tram-
way are described as “ syndicate railways.” Attention
might be directed (by way of correction) to the following
facts.
The old syndicate railway proposals that aroused such
bitter opposition on the part of Queensland Democrats
some eight years ago were objected to for the following
reasons :
1. That they violated the principle of State control.
2. That they were not built under State supervision.
3. That private railway companies would probably levy
differential rates on producers.
4. That large concessions were granted in the way of
land and mineral leases.
5. That these private railv\ ays established an injurious
monopoly in private hands.
All these objections are perfectly sound ; but not one of
them applies to the present Burketown-Lilydale tramway
The Blind-Eyed Brotherhood.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Should an Asiatic bruiser,
Should a Jap or Chinese cruiser,
Smite Australia hard and use her
In a way that isn’t right,
We must state in terms emphatic
That our citizens erratic
Are intensely democratic—
But are disinclined to fight.
For our warriors and sages
Who’ve perused the musty pages
Of the dark and dusty ages
In pursuit of modern light,
Love the heroes who have perished,
For the principles they cherished—
For delusions that they nourished
On a healthy appetite.
So, in modest imitation
Of a dead, forgotten nation,
We’ve adopted Arbitration
For the settlement of strife ;
And in “Truth” and “Justice” trusting,
We have left our sabres rusting.
For our noble hearts are busting
To attain the Higher Life.
And, to show the Oriental
That our purpose, transcendental,
Isn’t merely accidental,
But is portion of a plan
To impress our fellow creatures
With the slant-eyed saffron features
That we’re honest, earnest teachers
Of the Brotherhood of Man.
Our resentment we will smother
Whilst our Asiatic brother
Gets his wind and lands another
On our Democratic jaw.
Yes, our anger we will stifle,
For it isn’t wise to trifle
With the chap who holds a rifle
In his long, lean, monkey paw.
Let’s do nothing to endanger,
Our relations with the stranger ;
Let us empty from the manger
Our accumulated grain.
We shall have the satisfaction
Of providing no attraction
That will justify his action
When he calls around again.
When our country gasps despairing,
When she’s damaged past repairing,
When the ship of State is tearing
Through the stormy latitudes—
We’ll ignore the stress of weather,
We will put our heads together
And vociferously blether
Democratic platitudes.
’Twill be sweetly edifying
To reflect when we are dying
That our lives were spent in trying
To be lovable and good,
And to know each generation,
Of the Yellow Federation,
Shall express its admiration
For the Blind-Eyed Brotherhood.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.


DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN THE EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without any detention from your daily routine
work. Endorsed by the highest Medical Authorities.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced
you incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years’
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which have resisted all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address —
“ EAROSCOPE ’’ Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S. W.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films every week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Quern Street, Brisbane.
or to the Mount Elliott scheme. To take the leading
points again seriatim :— ~ , , ,
1. These lines will be absolutely controlled and run by
the Commissioner for Railways. , ...
2. They will be built by the Commissioner just liKe
other State lines. , , ,
3. No differential rates will be possible—State control
obviating this.
4. There are absolutely no concessions at all.
5. No private monopoly is established, or possible under
the conditions. ~ ..
It might also be pointed out that the State contribution
to capital cost (one-half or three-fourths, as the
case may be) bears interest first of all up to
per cent., as a compensation for the fact that the
State is responsible for losses in working. In one
case the company contributes one-half of the cost
of the line—in the other, three-fourths. What then,
it might be asked, is the company’s object ? The develop-
ment of the mining properties which, it is alleged, are of
exceptional richness. The lines are to be purchased out-
right at the end of 15 years on a valuation. Criticism
may be levelled at the conditions of purchase, but the
assertion that the lines are “syndicate” lines is simply
arrant nonsense. They will be practically as good state
lines as any line built with borrowed British capital
State lines which are paying a tribute of 4 per cent,
to the foreign money-lender. The other day, in
South Australia, under a largely Labor Government,
a purely private mining line, 40 miles long, was authorised
simply by Order-in-Council, and no one raised any objec-
tion. The Mount Elliott people applied to the Queensland
Governmenr for a similar Order-in-Council, and were
promptly refused—as the Queensland Government desired
to retain control of all lines, and to give no encourage-
ment to the establishment of any private monopoly. At
the same time it must be apparent to any one that lines
of the Mount Elliott type are largely of a speculative
nature, and hence it is only fair that companies desirous
of getting such railways built to their properties should
be prepared to bear a portion of the cost and risk of the
undertaking. But surely the calling of railways built,
managed and controlled by the State “ syndicate rail-
ways, is a piece of uncommonly steep misrepresentation.
Who Has Lied?
Sydney Morning Herald says this strange thing
(18/5/’08) in an article dealing with the conclusion
of the tariff trouble in the House of Representa-
tives :
It is highly probable that the effect of the tariff will be
that both New South Wales and Victoria will gain indus-
trially at the expense of the less thickly-populated States.
New South Wales, with coal resources so superior to those
of any other part of the Commonwealth, will easily out-
distance all the other States, including Victoria, in the
race for industrial supremacy.
So the S. M. Herald has been under a mis-
apprehension during all the years of the just-
concluded tariff struggle. Those who have
been telling N.S.W. that it would wilt Rnd
die if Deakin— the alleged “representative”
of vague, unspecified “Melbourne interests” —
got the strangle-hold of his tariff _on Ma
State’s neck are mendacious persons in whom
no reliance may be placed. Ma is going to survive
the tariff nicely. In fact, the tariff is going to be
the making of the poor old soul. The Protectionist
“traitors” who pointed out the splendid in-
dustrial position in which Ma, with her immense
iron and coal assets, would stand in the event
of a reasonable Australian duty-schedule being
imposed, are not really the disloyal Ananiases
the Freetrade newspapers have been painting
them. They were Ananiases, “traitors,”
“minions of the Victorian manufacturers,”
etc., for election purposes merely. The
same old Ma who, while the tariff was
under consideration and in the making, was
going to fall stone dead if her alleged policy of
Freetrade were reft from her, is now, it appears
(as a result of having her Freetrade policy removed,
largely by the votes of heartless and conspiring
Victorians), about to boom like anything—and
that, moreover, at the expense of cormorant
States that were said to be eating at Ma-’s vitals.
It is as puzzling as anything in all fiscalism. All
that outstands clearly from the baffling mist and
murk of it is that someone has been lying.
—♦
A Cat-like Election in the West.
Westralia has just had a taste of the same ex-
perience that Victoria and South Australia have
every few years ; it has had a Legislative Council
election, and most of it didn’t know two things
about the matter until the whole business was
done. Over an Assembly general election a State
will work itself up into such wild excitement that
it will buy eggs to waste, and hang the conse-
quences ; but when it comes to electing a body
tnat has the power to throw the Assembly’s pro-
posals under the table, the same State has the
capacity for sleeping calmly through it all. Of
course, there are a few that don’t sleep ; but they
cunningly move about like cats, lest they should
wake up the crowd, and lest the crowd
should then realise what was happening.
In Westralia, so as to reduce the chances
of enough noise being made to wake the crowd up,
only one-third of the Fat House is elected every
other year ; so if the crowd shows signs of waking,
the Fat Oat, hurrying stealthily after its own fish,
purrs—“ It really isn’t worth disturbing yourself.
It’s only decimal" 33 per cent, of the lot after all.”
The result of all this Cat business is that, while
three out of every four Assembly electors have no
vote at all for the Council, not more than about
two in every five of those who have got a vote
exercised it last week. It is an appalling fact
that, according to the State’s Statistical
Register, issued the other day, there are
altogether only 37,869 people on the Leg. Council
rolls of the State, as against 124,675 on the
Assembly rolls ; so that in a State which firmly
believes that it has a system of government by the
people for the people, four citizens may go to a
heap of trouble to say “Yes” through the
Assembly, and then it is in the power of one of
the four—and often the fattest, most selfish, and
least patriotic—to turn the thing upside down and
say “No,” and “No” it is. That is how the
matter stands with regard to the State. But with
regard to the Commonwealth, instead of a handful
of 37,869, no less than 145,473 were enrolled and
entitled to vote at the Senate election in Decem-
ber, 1906. Actually more Westralian people are
entitled to vote for both Commonwealth Houses
than even for the State Assembly, and four times
as many as for the State House which says the
final word. Yet there are some few members even
of the Labor party, like Holman, of N. S. Wales,
who tell us that Federation arrived much too soon,
wherefore they are doing their little best to
restrict the powers of the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, where the 145,473 rule, and entrench and
even extend the powers of the State Parliament,
where the privileged 37,869 are supreme.
“D. H. Richards”: A couple of Queensland
M’s.P. the other day introduced a deputation
from the Northern sugar plantations to the boss
Customs officer on hand in Melbourne. This
deputation first tried to knock out the statements
of a previous one of workers, who complained
that they weren’t getting the 225. 6d. a week
which the Government said must be paid to entitle
the sugar grower to the “white” bonus. This
second deputation said the men were paid 3s. 9d.
a day, which was 225. fid. a week. But those who
know anything about cane-cutting, etc., know it
isn’t anything of the sort. The average weekly
earnings of a field-worker at 3s. 9d. a day (which
means no pay for wet weather) is approximately
12s. 6d., or less. Another statement made by this
deputation, that planters feed men throughout
wet weather, is, in some cases anyhow, a barefaced
lie. They pay all hands off, and tell them to
come back when the weather “ takes up.” This
has recently occurred twice on a plantation near
Bundaberg. On one plantation, the men
were allowed to stay on the place, but were
charged Bs. per week for keep. On another
plantation they were charged 10s. a week for keep.
These and similar conditions constitute absolutely
the only reason why the white man isn’t a very
long stayer on the Queensland sugar plantations ;
but when conditions are bettered, white men will
be just as willing to follow cane-field work as
they are now to follow shearing or wheat-harvest-
ing. But it is quite likely that a very mean
breed of sugar-growers will first have to be rooted
out.
The case of the Norwegian officer who was
recently arrested in Melbourne on a charge of
throwing a Chinese sailor overboard on the high
seas, threw an interesting light on the risks taken
by those Australians who rush to travel round the
Australian coast in steamers registered in foreign
countries and manned by foreign crews. As long
as any of these steamers are more than three
miles from the Australian coast, the Australian
passenger has no redress for any assault or
indignity, except by getting the Imperial author-
ities to make diplomatic representations. This
Norwegian was accused by the Chinese sailors of
having thrown one of their number overboard,
and some Chinese hair and a fragment of scalp
were found adhering to a bolt head on the ship’s
side. Chinese crews have a nasty habit of making
trouble by selecting the least popular member of
the crowd and doing away with him, and then
accusing an unpopular officer of having committed
the deed. Still the case howled for investigation.
But when this particular officer came before the
police court it was discovered that a foreign ship,
when more than three miles at sea, is a part of the
territory of the country to which it belongs, and
that though it was bound for an Australian
port the Australian courts had no jurisdiction.
And there the investigation stopped with a bang.
Presumably the same rule about murder-with-
impumty applies to Australian passengers
travelling round the coast in foreign steamers,
and when this fact is once thoroughly grasped it
should tend to make Fatman understand that
there is something in patriotism after all.
♦
Recent shriek from Sydney Telegraph :
New South Wales would pay the entire Commonwealth
old-age pensions out of her own pocket.
Well, if the Telegraph believes that silly lie all
it has to do is to fly to the High Court and obtain
redress. There is nothing in the Constitution
which allows the Australian Government to charge
N.S.W. with the old-age pensions of the other
States, and such an outrage would be knocked out
by the High Court in one act. Will the Tele-
graph give particulars of the alleged wrong, and,
incidentally, swear to the horror before a J.P. ? A
paper that has discovered a huge swindle like that
should be up and doing, and should be holding
forth in columns of fury and protest, and getting
legal injunctions and such-like; instead of just
mentioning the alleged gigantic fraud in two lines
as if it were of no more account than a half-pint of
beef-tea.
♦
“Janor” (who writes from a small Victorian
goldfield):—
Gold is once more saleable up our way, and again the
diggers surround square meals, or gaze on the foam of the
pewter, and tote the “ shammy ” without being “ shot in,”
for May Day saw the granting of the first gold-buyer’s
license in the district. It was given to a local store-
keeper. This man’s first application was refused on the
ground that his store was not flush with the alignment of
the road, so he built a sort of sentcy-box that was flush,
and called Premier Bent ten different idiots while doing
it, and succeeded at his second try, and at a cost of £2O
cash, much lost time and scores of lost customers.
Sales will be made easy for miners in remote
camps. They will give the packer a written
and witnessed authority to sell on their behalf—a separate
authority with each parcel of dust. When the packer
gets to the store, he yards the boss up in the dog-box
aforesaid, sells him the gold, and receives the cash,
and hands back the cash in payment of the joint and
several tucker bills. Then the boss takes the gold down
to the store (unlicensed) for safe keeping. The utter
absurdity of this humbug is underlined by the fact that
in this particular mining division there are no wages
men at work, and a miner couldn’t rob a company
to save his soul. One of the humorous incidents of
the unlicensed period was a mass meeting of miners
at which Victoria’s lion comique was called everything
but a lady. It was resolved, with great unanimity, to
boycott the Mines Department, to which end those pre-
sent bound themselves to work in future without miners’
rights or registration of mining tenements. This rotten
Gold Buyers’ Act has been referred to as “ hasty ” legis-
lation, but the diggers do not hold that view. They
regard it as a deep-laid scheme to deliberately knock out
the alluvial worker and drive him to accept the cocky’s
long hours, short pay, bread and treacle, and insanitary
doss.
♦-
It has been decided by the Victorian Govern-
ment to give 15 per cent, preference to Aus-
tralians on all Government contracts; and, failing
Australian tenderers, to give a preference of 74
per cent, to British manufacturers. The Austra-
lian Government has decided on the same policy
in letting contracts, and the other States are being
urged to fall into line. But 15 per cent, is ab-
surdly little. Look at the matter in this
way : In the last volume of statistics which
Coghlan turned out he estimated the incomes of
the Australian people at an average of £45165. per
head per annum. Of that the Government got,
during the same year, in taxes, stamps, railway
fares, etc., about £9 per head, or 20 per cent. That
is to say, when the Government pays £lOO to an
Australian, it gets about £2O back, and if local
rates are included it gets back more than that.
When it pays £lOO to the foreigner it gets back
just about nothing. Therefore it is worth while,
on purely business lines, to give £l9 19s. lid. per
cent, advantage to the local man ; even after the
State is Id. to the good. That is before the
question of patriotism even begins to enter into
the case. If allowance is made for the fact that
every local man is a prospective defender of Aus-
tralia against invasion, and the foreigner isn’t, it
should be worth while to give 25 per cent, prefer-
ence, and another 10 per cent, chucked in for
general patriotism would make 35 per cent.
Surely 10 per cent, isn’t too much to.chuck in for
general patriotism ?
♦
William Epps, a person who used to be much
heard of in National Ass. circles, but around
whom the murky cloak of obscurity has gathered
of late years, has been writing to the press about
“ the Eclipse of the Senate.” Epps reckons that
if Australia hadn’t adopted the device of letting
the people elect the Senate, but had left the job
to the State Legislatures, the institution wouldn’t
have been eclipsed. Possibly it wouldn’t, but if
so the House of Reps, would, and that would have
been worse. The fact is that the theory of two
Houses of Parliament with equal powers is wholly
rotten and absurd. It is as impossible as the idea
of two men editing one paper, or two generals
leading one army, or two kings sitting on one
throne, or two cats amicably pursuing one mouse,
or two boss devils reigning in one Sheol, with
equal powers and yet without friction. The thing
never comes off. Always one House is eclipsed,
and when the eclipse is decided the best idea is to
abolish that House. There is very little use for
an eclipsed House or for a defeated rooster.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Theatre Royal “ Sherlock Holmes.”
f “ The Midnight Wedding” (25th
Criterion - and 26th).
\ “ Fedora ” (27th, 28th, and 29th).
Palace Maskelyne and Devant’s Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
m nn ,„ f West’s Pictures and Kubelik(2lst,
I own Hall j 2 3rd, 26fch)-
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Prince Alfred Park. . Wirth Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow.”
Princess’s. .... “ The Merrymakers.”
Bijou “ Home Sweet Home.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Town Hall “ The Scarlet Troubadours."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
O
Farces do not stand the test of revival as
a rule. But “Brewster’s Millions” is an excep-
tion. It had a warm greeting at the Sydney
Royal on Saturday night, and again on Monday
night. Perhaps this is partly due to the adven-
titious aid given by the great storm scene—
certainly as good a piece of stage realism as
has been seen in Australia. Monty Brewster,
who has to spend £250,000 in a year with-
out having anything left to show for it,
except a headache and a bad conscience, comes
back having learned nothing new in the way of
money dissipation. Now if he had sat at the feet
of Wade during the late Premiers’ Conference, he
might have gathered how it was possible to ruin
himself, in Australia at least. In his capacity
as a Federal taxpayer he might rob himself
in his capacity as a State taxpayer, until the
loss ran into millions. It is a solution of much
simplicity, and Mr. Wade will explain it almost
any day when a by-election is on. This “ Brew-
ster’s Millions” revival is notable for the artistic
success of a young debutante, Miss Nellie Calvin,
who has the part of Margaret Grey. She gave
much sweetness and distinction to the playing
of Monty’s girl. On Saturday, “Sherlock
Holmes ” will be revived, and Sydney will have
a chance of seeing how Kingston works on cocaine
dope, and swift deduction.
* * *
After six weeks of it, King Solium is be-
ginning to have no difficulty in being weary of
the “ Humpty Dumpty ” jokes at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney). From outside appearances there is just
now only one possibly less mirthful monarch in
all the world than Sol. ; and he happens to be in
Afghanistan, where Mohmands and other un-
stable subjects play the worrying part that Harry
Shine plays in the Pitt-street kingdom. Habbi-
bullah’s trouble is that he gets £120,000 a year for
keeping order on the Indian frontier ; and, though
he wants that £120,000 desperately, Edward, that
other big player of kings’ parts, is beginning to
hint that he isn’t getting £120,000 worth of
order. At latest, the cheerful Afghan poten-
tate had announced that he proposed to tear out
the tongue or hack off the feet of anybody who
imperilled his £120,000, and thus made his life
miserable; so the chances are that, after Hab.
has handed over a tongue and a few toes as a
guarantee of his good faith, things will improve
up his way, and he will be able to smile again.
Just at present, however, it’s hard to say which
looks the more miserable —Hab. or Sol. All the
same, Sol. has evidently still a few things to
learn in the matter of being unpleasant; for
Harry Shine’s tongue still wags as gaily as ever,
and not even one dancing lady seems to have lost
so much as a toe.
** * *
“Her Love Against the World” was re-
vived at Sydney Criterion on Saturday night last.
Local stage enthusiasts know the strength of this
Love. It is of the brand which passeth all under-
standing. Madge Mclntosh, Harcourt Beatty
and Co. are the manufacturers, and the signal
success of their wholly unprotected industry con-
stitutes one of the few rational arguments left to
the Ma State Freetrader these days.
* * *
Wirths’ gigantic circus and menagerie has
entered upon its last nights in Sydney, and the
giraffe will be visible only five more evenings.
The giraffe has gripped the popular fancy by the
clothing, and the public is beginning to read up
the species and inquire pathetically why the
rather graceful animal was not introduced
before. In spite of the daring and glamor
surrounding the feats of the Rodriques
Bros, and the Sydney twins, Australian
audiences remain true to the worship of the
horse, and that champion rider, John Webley
Cooke, finds his admiring following in no way
diminished. Horse worship is like love of whisky
—your whisky-drinker may change his brand
occasionally, and he may look upon strange drinks,
such as byrrh, yfith a view to finding out what
they are like ; but he always comes back to the
whisky again. And the horse worshipper is
exactly so.
The follower of West’s Pictures suddenly
finds himself on the Time Machine brought up to
date, and the conveyance drops him somewhere
between the years 1189 and 1199, when -Richard
who ate the lion’s heart played the goat in
Palestine. It’s a quaint old world, full of
nodding plumes and horribly heavy armor, and
remarkable mostly for an entire absence of
decent drinks and tobacco of any sort. Still for a
space of 10 minutes or so it is entertaining
Owing to the irruption of Kubelik and the revela-
tion of the Catgut, the pictures are suspended till
Monday next, when the Crusaders will be again
on view. The only trouble about the pictures is
the absence of any explanation as to who the photo-
grapher was, and how the films escaped destruc-
tion during the intervening centuries.
** * *
At Sydney Palace the illusion of the un-
fortunate gentleman who loses his head and
wanders round looking for it, and carries it under
his arm when he finds it, has created something
like a boom. At present practically all Sydney
appears to be taking its turn to see the grisly
thing, which is one of the weirdest of the
Maskelyne illusions, and by being so deftly done is
picturesquely horrible and realistic. The pro-
gramme generally is the same as that of last week
although Mr. Barclay Gammon does vary the
order of his tarradiddles ; and his part of the show
owing to imperative encores, increases perceptibly’.
#* * *
The collection of blunt-nosed automobiles
and carriages with high lights on their polished
points outside Sydney Centenary Hall on Monday
afternoon suggested that a Star was raging inside
the building. But the congregation of vehicles
was due to their feminine owners being met to-
gether to do honor to the gentle Dead. A me-
morial to Miss Woolley was under discussion.
Lady Northcote, Miss Ravvson, C.-Justicess
Darley were all there in shining array. The Darley
lady read out the resolutions two or three times
over, and then upside down, and mixed the names
somewhat, but these little things didn’t matter •
she looked the grand dame all the time. Ex.
Northcote just smiled beautifully and said
nothing, Miss Rawson wore her usual ingenue ex-
pression. and a business-like man or two kept the
femininity right in the middle of the practical
road, but they had hard work to do it. Also, on a
man’s suggestion, a collection of money or promises
was made on the spot, and £7O was gathered
together. The memorial will take some musical
form.
** # *
The Mayor of Sydney is going to break
a record or a precedent or something, and
publicly welcome Kubelik. The noise of the
breakage may be heard next door. He declined a
public glad hand to Mark Hambourg, so nothing
was broken in honor of the bare-faced star but
many pairs of gloves (in applauding) and the heart
of a female melomaniac or two. The invited
welcomers will be men only. Kubelik will open
to a £5OO house on Thursday next.
** * *
This is the move-on week at Sydney
Tivoli, and the gods that this week know the
Artois brothers, and the Kaufmanns, and Alma
Grey, and J. P. Ling, won’t know them next
week. And the Artois brothers and the Kauf-
manns, at any rate, are very well worth getting
acquainted with before it is too late.
** * *
Adelaide Hippodrome has broken out
with variety business, as a rival to the Tivoli.
Both these houses have cut prices down to a mini-
mum of fid. and a maximum of 2s. Bland Holt
is still pegging away at the Royal, having happily
recovered from his sensational dive off the stage
on to the big drum. He has at last dropped
Drury Lane dramas for local color, and a State
that is mostly under water, as a result of last
week’s storms, is witnessing with acclamation
“The Breaking of the Drought.” “Robbery
Under Arms” (of which quite one-half is comic
films of improbable adventures) has had its boom
at the Town Hall. Counting the rinks, which
compete fiercely against each other, and the
athletico-punching shows at the converted City
Baths, Adelaide has a choice of as many as seven
amusements these evenings.
* *
At Melbourne Her Majesty’s, last Satur-
day night, “The Merry Widow” in a few short
minutes grew from an idea into an idol.
It is a play with many recommenda-
tions. It excels in such things as the tale
of an aged fowl that swallowed a handful
of brass shavings and laid a door-knob ; but these
are only incidental, instead of being the chief
supports of the play. “The Merry Widow is
light opera of a high-class brand. The narrative
is not a pretext, and it can show cause for its
existence. It tells of a lady, Sonia, who married
millions, and planted all but the millions m the
cemetery —as some women do. She is a native
of Marsovia, and first appears in the apartments
of the Marsovian ambassador at Paris, Baron
Popotf. She immediately becomes the disease of a
mob of unattached males and Tertium Quids. Ihe
latter neglect their divinities, the former their
vices, for the remote chance of the spoil. Each
seeks to outdo the other in really epic fatuity—all
but Vicomte Camille de Jolidon, who is buried up
to liis hair-parting in an affaire with the Baroness
Popoff. De Jolidon is a pretty youth,
and pursues his beloved with the earnes
ness of a poodle running after a fast train.
The Baron hears that the young man is in
love, but doesn’t learn with whom. Baron
Popoff has an eye for an ankle, and two ears tor
a scandal. He admits to being a particular juf ge
of women, and consequently entrusts to ms'* ,te
the delicate task of extracting froni de Joliaon
the name of the lady of his dreams. Popoff wants
to see her and consider her ankles. Prince Dan ,
Secretary of Legation, a loverof Sonia s early nays,
tries to remove some of theTertium Quidsby arra g-
ing duels between them and the deceived hus-
bands. Popoff learns that his own wife is the
appanage of de Jolidon. He throws himself into
a terrible Marsovian passion he is two
larger than a microbe—and determines to .
his knife in their false hearts. The event doesn t
come off. Running through the whole story is
the lingering mystery of a lost fan, withi the w-
“I love you” inscribed thereon. And vvhii
everyone attempts to find its owner, e^ e r
Novikovich prances in and out, m a stat il
maudlin ineptitude, tearfully bewailing *
wife’s faithlessness. The finale is. of course,
. conventional ; each gentleman clutches m
lady—and all are happy. The scenery.
dressing are elaborate and obviously exp >
especially in Act 11., where a rich feast of color,
a harmony of warm tints and old go , ", t
attained. Act 111. appeals more to the heart
than to the eye of the male playgoer, in the comedy
sextet which supports Miss Nellie V ikon l
song, “ The Girls at Maxim’s.” As for the music,
it will be a charming recollection even to the un
musical.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
Ltd., Cinematograph Specialists and Electricians,
<>93 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
&
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
In the part of Sonia, Miss Carrie Moore
exhibits conscientiousness and a goodly vocal de-
velopment. She has lost much of the hoydenish
piquancy of five years agone, but has acquired
style, character and increased grace of deport-
ment. She gives an excellent performance. Her
duets with Andrew Higginson, “ The Cavalier ”
and “I Love You So,’’are admirablv rendered
items with a sentimental interest. Miss Florence
Young, as Baroness Popoff, divides the honors
with Miss Moore. She is a more matured
warbler and a less embellished actress. In her
duets with Reginald Roberts, two fervid cooings
entitled “A Dutiful Wife” and “Love in My
Heart,” she shows that she has not lost her favor
nor her personality. Worthy of honorable mention
also are Miss Nellie Wilson as Zo-Zo, and Miss
Connie Milne as Praskovia. Concerning Andrew
Higginson and Edmund Sherras, the new arrivals,
they both possess good voices, but are otherwise
suggestive of the concert platform. As actors,
they are calm—rather too calm. Still praise must
be given to Mr. Higginson for his “Maxims,” a
song with a haunting melody. The übiquitous de
Jolidon is in the hands of Reginald Roberts who,
on his vocal efforts, is entitled to a diploma. As
Baron Popoff, Victor Gouriet is as funny and
finical as may be, and Fred Leslie, as Nisch. and
W. S. Percy, as General Novikovicb, are pleasing
all the time.
*• * * *
“The Merrymakers,” who opened at
Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday night, are
entertaining, but don’t seem likely to be profit-
able. Their performance has little or no appeal
to the unintelligent. It is light and whimsical,
intellectual and educative. The burlesques have
tiny, inappreciable subtleties, but robust slush
might pay better. On Saturday night, towards
the close of the entertainment, there arose
an outburst from the “ gods ” that was worthy
of the best traditions of Port Melbourne football.
They didn’t care for it, and, having paid the
least, were entitled to object the most. The
whole programme of “The Merrymakers” might
be taken as an effort to anticipate the millennium
in amusement. In the first part, Miss Betty
Oh Is, a pretty damsel, sings a French chansonette
—a dainty little trifle which is merely applauded
for the sake of appearances. The other items
comprise a series of songs and monologues,
equally cultivated and polished in character.
J. M. Campbell contributes the most humorous
monologue in “Mrs. Wizzin.” The three ladies
of the company warble feelingly of “ The Lovely
Girls” with lachrymose accompaniments ; and the
first section of the programme concludes with a
kind of part song, “ Cock-a-Doodle-Do.” Part 11.
comprises a couple of clever burlesques of modern
melodrama and musical comedy. Summed up,
it is a show that is prepared to take public intelli-
gence on trust —a dangerous risk. There is meat
in it, but to the majority it is a mere epigram.
If the show embodied a few flying axe-handles,
and arrangements could be made for somebody to
sit down by mistake on a tart, the co. might win
through.
*# * *
At Melbourne Olympia, the pictures of
T. J. West frisk across the sheet with the coy
artistry of a girl in a very brief skirt. And,
while they frisk, the grimace upon the ticket-
office breaks out into a convulsion of joy. The
intermittent announcer has now discarded his
megaphone—for which this paper fervently thanks
the Lord.
*# * *
There is a gentle simplicity, a destitution
of outrage, about “Home, Sweet Home,” which
appeared at Melbourne Bijou last Saturday
night. The theme is a morbid concession to sub-
urban respectability, and it preaches the creed of
a shabby, drab domesticism —as if a hearth and
fireside were the sole prerogative of humanity.
The contention may be right or wrong ; but it
doesn’t lessen the attractions of champagne,
oysters, and an evening-dress girl at 11.30 p. m.
“ Home, S. Home ” betrays an almost bigoted
prejudice in the matter of the hearth and
the hearth-rug and the coal-scuttle, and is
as conventional in development as the de-
scendant of ten generations of clerks. It
introduces a lovely fisher maiden (Joan), who
is the adopted daughter of fisherman David Armi-
tage. He had rescued her as a babe from a
wreck, and she grew up under a simple regime of fish
and fresh air, and became a delight to the old
man’s eyes. He is a stolid old man with a rever-
ence for the nobility. The lives of David and
Joan are quite peaceful until the cold, fishlike eye
of the Duke of Ancaster alights upon the
homely scene. Ancaster’s frigidity is terrible;
his mien is that of a Chinese god set in motion.
He tells old Armitage of his futile life, and of his
wife and che-ild drowned at sea; also of his son, a
hopeless idiot, who turns up in a white duck suit
and panama, to greet his pa with a chortle and a
vacuous grin. The youth, the Honorable Percy
by name, has married a music-hall star, Sybil
Fay, who shocks the peer with her immense im-
pudence and her less immense bathing costume.
Meantime, Joan marries old Armitage’s son and
heir, and, after a respectable period, there
appears, a little Armitage. Later, Joan is
recognised as the long-lost daughter of An-
caster, and takes up her rightful position as such,
leaving her husband and the infant lamenting.
Her return to the hearth and home, her realisation
of her maternity and her “ jooty ” make a tearful
climax to Act IV. She ceases to be an exotic,
and becomes a homely village vegetable. To
praise Miss Frances Ross and Robert Inman in
the principal parts would be mere vain repetition,
though Mr. Inman is occasionally a trifle heavy
and prosaic. Then he loses his romantic interest,
and is a less fashionable hero than he might be.
Of the others, Harry Douglas is responsible for a
good study of old Armitage ; while Miss Maisie
Maxwell, as Sybil Fay, is chirpy. That is the
best adjective the writer can think of for the
moment, but he hopes to look up another one next
week.
* * -* *
“ Miss Hook,” of Melbourne Royal, is an
endearing young thing. The better one knows
her, the more alluring she is. Now, on first
acquaintance, Miss H. struck one as being a stiff
and fatuous minx, with a horde of more or less
tedious associates. Further acquaintance proves
that she’s tuneful, even if she isn’t sensible.
Isolated items in her repertoire have the
faculty of hooking on to one’s memory, with-
out hurting that mechanism any. For instance,
‘Little Miss Wooden Shoes” is a melodious
exposition of Ruth Lincoln’s highest soprano notes,
ai) d “Soldiers of the Netherlands” makes
one wonder why on earth grease-paint coaxed
Arthur Appleby out of provincial oratorio into
the skin-tights of a comic operatic ’ero. Also—
oas®s—can be numbered the appear-
•■i t ? ie y ellow ballet. The graded yellows,
with their complement of warm, bright blue,
if i UP a P' cture . bke unto an apotheosis of the
nrst beloved barmaid of our callower years.
*# * *
Melbourne Opera House programme is
making earnest but futile attempts to spring ofE
ie g ootn in which it has wallowed for many long
weeks. To this end it captured the ravishing
sisters Klos for five nights. Those three graces
struck a joyous note, which unluckily died away
with their last caper. A new turn by Regan and
Ryan is just an eighth of an inch above medio-
j k consists of some patter, some song
and a dance, and the dance is unremarkable.
arWood 1S sil) g in g “Devil-may-care”
with the reckless abandon of one who would as
soon give twopence for the cigar as a penny any
day. Otherwise things are fairly quiet.
AT POVERTY POINT.
AUSTRALIA'S WELCOME TO "THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS."
KANGAROO : " This is indeed a pleasure.”
Mr. Edward Branscombe's English Comedy Costume Co.,
"THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS,”
appears Palace Theatre, Sydney, Saturday, May 30.
The club-swinging’ lunacy has gripped Maoriland by the
hair. After Tom Burrows, at the Theatre Royal, Wel-
lington, had whirled two lumps of timber incessantly for
62hr. 2min., and after one Parnell, leader of the orchestra
at the theatre, had banged an inoffensive piano for 38hr.
2min., Wellington became mesmerised or went mad with
the monotony of the whirl, and while in that state it
collected sufficient cash from itself to buy an expensive
Maori “ Tiki ” and greenstone sleeve-links for Thomas,
and a gold watch for Parnell.
J. and N. Tait, well-known directors of concerts,
have acquired A. K. Langford’s interest in Allan
and Co., Limited (Melbourne), the price being set down
at £32,500. Charles Tait, a brother of the above, has
been a director of Allan’s for some years. The business
was established in the early ’fifties by Joseph Wilkie,
in Collins-street East (between Elizabeth and Swanston
streets, north side). Wilkie was a member of one of the
early Parliaments (1859). He took one Webster into
partnership. Presently Wilkie became incapacitated for
business, and Allan, who had singing classes in old
St. Paul’s schoolroom, got an interest. It finally became
all his. Allan married a daughter of John Clark, tanner,
etc., who, with his wife and son, was lost in the London
in 1866. Robert Elvy, music warehouseman, was Wilkie’s
manager until he came to Sydney in 1861.
Veteran Howard Vernon comes before the public again.
The Buller River (M.L.) punt that carried his company
and props broke away from its guide ropes the other day,
and scooted gaily down-stream. Luckily it didn’t go
out to sea, but beached itself on a sand bank.
The higher culture has spread to the romantic com-
mune of Hurstville, near Sydney. They are going to have
what they call an eisteddfod, and among the compe-
titions is to be one for mouth-organs.
Mrs. Annie Besant, president of the Theosophical
Society, is about to commence a lecturing tour in tbe
Commonwealth. She started from Colombo, it is printed,
on the 16th instant. But Mrs. Besant is a good deal of
an extinct volcano these days, and the fact that the
British expedition to Thibet didn’t bring back even one
mahatma in a cage, or barking at the end of a chain, has
cast a gloom over the shadowy spooky cult.
• i<^? e : There are some weird thing's in accents
in Miss Hook of Holland.” Emmeline Orford, the im-
ported soubrette, announces, to begin with, that she has
nevah seen ah’ Meestah Hoo-kah in such goode tem-
pah, and ay-ah hev beenah weeth heem for fouah yahs.”
Unly the accompanying remarks of less affected members
°h ”5 c<^ 11 P an .V enable one to find out what she is talking
about. Then Dora Denton expresses her opinion of
soldiers by shutting up her throat tightly, and squeezing
out such sounds as “Mistah Hook heets sooljahs. Av
doont maynd, ay lake sooljahs.” When “Schnapps,”
the foreman of the distillery, calls the roll, and the pretty
blue-dressed girls answer to their numbers, one feels
inclined to get up and argue the point. It
if i , y ’ “Heeyah,” “ Uah,” “ Hee-haw ” — am’thing,
but plain, ordinary “ Here.” The silly little souls flatter
theniselyes that people will think they come from
Home, as they call England—a place very few of them
have seen, are likely to see, or would like if they did see.
Miss Orford’s accent would be regarded by English
people as pure affectation, and as for the other brands,
the only one of the many accents and dialects in England
that they resemble at all is Cockney ; to anyone who has
been in London, they suggest the ’busmen in Holborn
calling out “Chawncery Lane! Benk, Benk!” This
form of word-mangling is confined so far to chorus girls,
shop girls, and flappers, but it is spreading.
“ Melb. ”: Mr. Anderson says he cannot think of a
better name for his new theatre than the King’s. What
a pity ! Is he tied up to King’s, Queen’s, Victoria, Alex-
andra, Prince of Wales, or something like that? Why
not the National or the Commonwealth ?
, Mr. A. Nugent Robertson, of the ferry-penny episode,
is responsible for a three-act farcical comedy, “The
Microbe of Love,” which is to be produced by the Sydney
Muffs at the Royal Standard Theatre, on Wednesday next,
in aid of the Poor Clares, Waverley. It is to be hoped
that the play isn’t as poor as the Clares.
Frothed Rev. Henry Worrall, in Bendigo, on a recent
Lord’s Day night: “ Passing along the street they would
see some painted creatures, bejewelled and dressed richly.
One would ask, * Who is that woman ?’ and when it was
said, ‘ Oh, she is an actress,’ the lip went down, and there
was a look of scorn. The wife who stayed at home would
be at the Great White Throne when the actress . . .
would be rotting in oblivion,” etc. It is a typically Ker-
ristian (as opposed to Christian) viewpoint. The genuine
Kerristian (as opposed to Christian) person gets all of his
joy of life out of two things : (1) the present luxury of
thrusting the nether lip derisively downw T ards, and direct-
ing the regard of scorn at a fellow creature on the ground
that he or she is lost goods ; (2) the prospective bliss of
sitting on a cloud in the hereafter, and for all eternity
watching the afore-mentioned fellow creature rotting or
what-not in oblivion.
“ Cockaigne ” : The more I study up about Rachel
Ward, Countess of Dudley, n6e Gurney, the more
material appears in her for a novel. There is a play
called “ Diana of Dobson’s,” running in London, and
obviously founded upon her. Diana is a fashionable
millinery girl, one of those who are obliged to live in the
house, according to the regulations by which Giltgore,
Goldbug and Co. force employees to dwell on what navvies
call the “ truck ” system. That is to say, the millinery
girls have to live and sleep in the establishment, and all
meals are provided by the boss. Now take the three
epochs of Rachel Gurney’s life, and divide them into three
acts of a sensation drama. First she is in opulence, with
her banker father. The firm of the Gurneys had about as
much income as the Earl of Dudley. Then follows the
smash. Rachel has to go into the big millinery shop.
The Duchess of Bedford takes her out, and the Cinderella
man comes along in the shape of Dudley. Fancy some
Toorakienne saying “ I remember buying reels of cotton
and yards of tape from her ! ”
“S.S.”: Alfred Sutro’s play, “ John Glayde’s Honor,”
although an interesting: thing: in many ways, demon-
strates Sutro to be still something: of a tyro as a play-
maker compared with Pinero, or even a dramatist like
Haddon Chambers. The comedy of the American Iron
King and his flighty wife is defective mainly in the fact
that the critical observer cannot escape from the hand
that moves the chessmen. You see the author scheming
to get one set of people off the stage to make room for
another. The telephone trick of the second act
that clears the board of John Glayde to permit
of Mrs. John taking up the running with her
lover is too palpable, and the intrusion of the lover’s
mother in Act IV. is only brought about in order that
Lerode, in getting rid of her, may give Glayde a free
stage. The device is as glaring as a locomotive headlight.
Of course, dramatists have to do these things, but men
like Pinero and Ibsen —to mention a king of stage-craft
—do not give a hint of juggling. Pure craft dictates
the movements of Ibsen’s people, but nowhere is art
more artfully concealed.
The biograph— or picturescope, or whatever it maybe
called at the moment—has a use for the Parisian show-
man that Australia has not reached, and is not likely to
reach. It comes in handy to represent the few things—
and in Paris they are very few—that cannot well be acted
outright on the stage. The whole idea of one recent French
comedy is the desire of an official to catch his 1000th
erring married woman. It is his business to catch them,
and he has caught 999, and he will get some coveted
“ decoration ” on making up the round figures.
But the establishment on which he confidently
relied has got wise, and has installed machinery, which,
at a signal, turns all the dozen private cabinets into niere
safe-deposit boxes (and back again, at will). So the
official secretly gets a biograph film fixed in each of the
private cabinets ; and at the end of the play the films
are turned on, showing to his superior officers— and to
the audience— what happened in each of those cabinets.
And he gets his decoration easily, with a score of 1011
not out.
Harrison O.”: What’s wrong- with Tom Kingston,
anyhow? He does not play Sherlock Holmes as he
should, and seems to imagine that he is young Monty
Brewster again. I saw this show at Her Majesty’s, and
the bloke I there met is not the S. Holmes I knew of old,
the dreadfully unmitigated Calm Man described by Doyle
and portrayed by Cuyler Hastings. He has got the
same old cocaine habit, the same old dressing-gown, and
the same old awful Watson ; but he is no longer the cool,
calm and collected bloke he used to be. Kingston plays
him in much the same way that Baker used to play, say,
Bathurst in “The Squatter’s Daughter. I would
advise Kingston to sneak into Federal Parliament House
some afternoon, and study Iceberg Irvine for a couple of
hours. Then he will have an idea how to play Picklock
Holmes.
“ Star” : A preliminary drop-scene in “ Peter Pan ” is
a reproduction of Wendy’s sampler. The design incor-
porates many names beloved of childish readers—“ Dear
Hans Andersen, dear Kobert Stephenson, dear Lewis
V a ™ A e - to ’’ eto - an(l conspicuous in the bunch, “ dear
J. M. Barrie.” This play is by J. M. Barrie, and one won-
Tivr* ®y e f l tia.i nt and touching conceit emanates from
J.M.B. If so, it is a striking sampler of shrinking Scottish
modesty. Barrie, as distiller of a curious kind of Cale-
donian bathos, has many admirers, but to list him in the
goodly company of accepted authors adored of children is
an amiable perjury. I have never met a child who knew
Barrie, and his writings, it seems to me, are most
pleasing to very old children enjoying their second time
on earth.
. ® n cß ” t Melbourne people were always disgusted
with the coupon system of securing seats for first-night
performances, but the experience of hundreds who tried
J® Set seats for the initial production of “ The Merry-
Widow,” and failed after turning out at an unholy hour,
should serve to knock a fatuous idea fairly on the head.
What other business person would have the audacitv to
ask his customer to climb out of bed in the wee, s'ma’,
damp, dark hours of a winter’s day, and stand round in a
crowd with his false teeth chattering like a knitting mill,
while coupons are doled out—coupons which may or may
not secure him seats, after a second fight later on. when
the winter’s day is still dank and dismal, and while the
store teeth are still playing the same old bone solo ?
Miss Roland Watts-Phillips went unobtrusively away
on a White Star boat last week. She played for
years, and played well, with George Rignold, and estab-
lished herself firmly in the emotional buzzum of the
gallery-frequenting person. Latterly, she fell on rather
evil days, whereat her friends rallied round generously,
and benefited her with a financial change. The last
show she appeared in was the recent Palace Theatre
(Sydney) pantomime.
“ O.I.” : Mr. Bill Anderson is offering a reward of £5 ss.
for a suitable name for his new Theatre. As it is to be
opened next month, and, possibly, with “ The Squatter’s
Daughter,” let the new Temple of Thespis be named
“The Jumbuck.”
“Sibi”: At a Melbourne Opera House matinee, re-
cently, one of the Deane Tribune Co. performed a feat
that wasn’t on the programme. During the riot which
concludes the turn, an actor impersonating a quack
doctor flies out over the stalls, suspended on a
wire. This time the wire didn’t • hold, so the
flying quack tumbled. Fortunately for him, he landed
in a heap in the central alley-way, between the rows
of stall seats. If he had alighted amongst the audi-
ence, somebody beside himself might have been hurt.
This habit of hanging people up by wires has been grow,
ing lately; in J.C.W.’s latest, Peter Pan, Wendy, and a
couple of others float about On wires which, to all appear-
ances, are much less substantial than that which didn’t
hold up the Deane Tribune person the other day ; where-
fore I’m “ awaiting developments.”
“M.P.”: Daisie Ireland, the recent addition to the
Bland Holt brigade, has broken all records in a leap from
nowhere to a front-rank part in “ The Great Millionaire,”
at Adelaide Royal. Prior to her “Millionaire” show,
Daisie was a mere amateur with a small list of perform-
ances to her appellation. In fact, you could almost count
them on the thumb of one foot. She appeared with her
veteran dad, G. R. Ireland, in “ The Hunchback,” at his
benefit performance at Melbourne Princess’s (11/4/’O6).
Her share was a touch of light comedy as Helen, and she
did it well. As a wee girl the willowy Daisie did a little
work with Westniacott’s company, at Melbourne Royal,
in “ The Silver King.” King Hedley was the King—he
couldn’t help auburn-haired Harrie Ireland
was Nellie Denver. Daisie also took a hand in a prior
Ireland benefit in “Clytie,” produced at the old Mel-
bourne Opera House. Apart from her thatch-covering,
the younger Miss is built on similar lines to our Harrie.
Recently, at the Theatre des Nouveautes, Paris, practi-
cal search was made for potential Carusos by a committee
of front-rank artists and musicians, and an audience of
1200. The trial extended from nine in the morning till
ten at night, and embraced 156 aspirants. These included
a doctor, some medical students, an accountant, soldiers,
butchers, stonemasons, carpenters, postmen, several
landed persons, waiters, grocers, and a female laundry
hand. The youngest aspirant was a greait success ; he
was sixteen, and u-eighed 22st. ! Of the lot, the committee
sorted out four, who, according to the president, “ will
soon be of world-wide reputation.”
“ J.A.C.” : A Noo Yark bishop, one Olmsted, recently
preached a sermon in defence of what he terms “ the
ministerial kiss,” a particular brand of osculation which
the Amurrikan pastor has lately taken to bestowing
wholesale on the young and comely shes of his flock. Miss
Clara Morris, probably she w-ho, some yqp.rs ago, was
America’s leading actress, does not agree with the bishop,
and gives his holy men some loud and tumultuous bricks.
She describes some 30 different forms of kiss, among them
the melodramatic kiss and the kiss operatic, the soul kiss
(whatever that may be), and the half-minute blazer,
which should be a good enough thing. “ But,” says she,
“ the unctuous kiss of the tabby-cat parson has the least
right of existence.”
“Robbery Under Arms” has been resurrected at the
London Pav., with Roy Redgrave as the red-shirted saint
made famous in these parts by Alfred Dampier’s wonder-
ful voice.
“Jabez” contributes (in the only literary form appro-
priate to so tremendous a happening) the full and correct
version of the Abelard-Heloise theatrical trouble, darkly
adumbrated in “ Woman’s Letter,” 14/5/’OB :
CHURCH AND STAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Around the portal of the church
No crowd is fighting “ fit to kill ” ;
The homely sparrows lowly perch
And preen themselves upon the sill,
While down, the street the people throng—
They clamor there from break of day.
For hours the horror they prolong 1 ,
With struggles fierce and language strong
They tug and tear,
And lose their hair,
To buy a ticket for the play.
The church is open, seats are free,
There is no charge for booking here,
And yet the simple parson see
Discoursing to the atmosphere.
The playhouse asks a heavy price,
It’s, furthermore, a place of sin ;
But all come here, and some come twice.
If there’s a little extra spice
The eager rout
Can’t be kept out,
Where pastors cannot drag them in.
Oh, woeful force of wickedness,
Attraction ever keen and fresh !
Why can’t the churches dispossess
The world, the Devil, and the flesh?
They say our day is but a span,
W'hile endless is the life to be,
Then wonder that with ardor man
Grasps all this little life he can,
Ere tossed in space,
And called to face
The boredom of Eternity.
VIC.
E.D.
And now there came a time when Abe, in all
The trapping-s of his part, hied him apace
Flies-ward, and took his cue, and cap’ring on
Tripped and fell prone (by accident) at Her
Small feet, the which had him enthralled. But She,
Gripped with the giggles, nothing did but laugh,
And—for that laughter is infectious—Abe
Ceased in his stave perforce and cackled, too,
A trifle, and was blithe ; but not for long.
For see, there from the wings an eye peers forth,
Passion-suffused. Ah, horror ! ’Tis Heloise !!
She who ’gainst flirting sets an iron face,
Brooking it in no wise, nor any place.
The scena o’er recriminations start
And soon the yelp of smackfed maiden fills
The ambient ether ; whereat Abe, enraged,
Howls “ Damn it ” unto Heloise, also “ Blow”
Who straight collapses on a settle near
Hysterical; and waves her limbs, and moan
Makes poignantly. Arrives a comely mime
(Hight Sara) and, observing the drear sight
She waileth “ Brute,” “Beast,” “CruelMonster.” Abe
Maddened by Sara’s intervention swears
Most blasphemously—irritating one
Who Sara well belikes. He stoushes Abe.
(Woe ! Woe !) Abe stoushes back. Horrible sight.
Oaths, shrieks, and gore make hideous the night.
Thereafter all that grisly evening through,
At ev’rv “ wait,” ’twixt each short lilt, red war
Rages the scenic properties among.
Supe battle joins with supe, and “ star ” with “ star ’*
Engages. Coryphbes are seen at holts
On ev’ry hand, while near their straining forms
A frenzied call-boy with close-clench6d paw
May be observed bashing the limelight-man.
Aye and anon the roar of strife dies down,
And combatants reel on to take their cues ;
But—the chaunt finished—war’s resumed quick.
And so, till curtain-fall—when Wingfed Peace
Down-settling gives to bloody Strife surcease,


A SHIRT THAT SLIPS
ON LIKE A COAT.
THIS is known as the “ Slip on Easy ”or Coat Shirt. It buttons
down to the waist, and is cut with a fly so that when
buttoned the two ends overlap.
There is no troublesome struggle to pet your shirt on over your
head, you slip it on easily like a Coat, it having no more buttons
than an ordinary shirt; is just as comfortable and costs no more.
We have a fine lot of these in our Mercery Department, and will
be pleased if you will call and see them. They are made of
French Cambric in a number of Stripes and Fancy Designs ; also
White Cambric with a short front.
We send these Shirts carriage paid at the advertised price
throughout the Commonwealth, with the understanding that
should you not be entirely satisfied they may be returned and the
purchase money will be refunded.
Remember they “ slip on like a coat.”
Slip on Easy” Shirt, 7/9«
Post Free as illustrated.
David Jones Ltd., Sydney
The Premiers’ Conference began and
ended in empty clatter, seemingly for want of
an influence to act as a guiding light to reason,
and a soother of starving bosoms. The influence
of D.C.L. Whisky upon the counsels of the most
unwise, when given a fair chance, is such as to
impart sunny gleams of wisdom, which it
would do even through the mental gloom which
envelops anti-Fed. squabbles.*
Give me a stoup of sparkling: wine,
Give me a song:, a trusty friend.
Give me the wiles of beauty s smiles,
And I’ll be happy to the end.
But when the head with fever burns.
And higher creeps the temperature,
When chest is sore, and rest iso er, Oure.*
Give me some Woods’ Great Peppermint our
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
* ■*
From Melbourne Age, May 11 :
A scare was caused at Black Hill, Ballarat East, on
Sunday evening by a report that another murder had
been committed, and that the body of the victim bad
been thrown into an abandoned shaft. Blood and hair,
it was stated, had been found inside of the shaft. The
police hurried to the scene and found hair adhering to
the side of an old hole. On search being made the car-
case of a dog was found in the shaft. This announce-
ment caused great relief among the residents.
The deceased was a Roman Catholic, and died while
saving her prayers. She was found holding her rosary
with both hands.
Which satisfactorily proves that they are not all
Yellow Pups in Victoria, anyhow.
THE NOAHS ARK OF OUR PERIOD.
LOSS OF THE BEGA.
ALLEGED OVERCROWDING.
Dr. Brissenden : Then the space on the awning l deck
that is not required by cattle and pigs is reserved for the
steerage passengers.
His Honor : The deck is common to cattle, pigs, and
passengers.
The general library of N.S.W. Chief
Justice James Martin, who has been dead over 21
years, has just been placed upon the shelves of a
Sydney second-hand book dealer.
One McGee told a tale of woe in Sydney
Water Police Court last week. He said he went
into a barber’s for a shave, and that the barber
lathered him, and then hit him on the chin, and
he woke up in the hospital. The barber said that
McGee —lathered —was lying back in the chair with
his eyes closed, when a perfect stranger rushed
in, hit him on the chin, and leaped out again,
wherefore he woke up in the hospital. The Court
said despondently “ I dunno,” and left it at that.
Johnson, who now runs Sydney’s trams,
is convinced that the addition of glass fronts to the
vehicles will not be a source of danger to traffic
and will be a great blessing to the drivers. He
has therefore decided that the glass front is to be
provided—on all cars built in the future. Nothing
is apparently to be done with the few hundred
vehicles now running, as
it would not be possible to take old cars off the road for
the purpose of making the change owing to the necessity
for their constant use to cope with the traffic.
Johnson apparently imagines that the only way
is either to let the thing entirely alone, or else to
take off all the cars in a heap and do the job in
one huge act. Hasn’t Johnson even one spare
car that he can xiut a glass front in ? Then he
could let it run while he took off another car, and
so on. Does he mean that all the vehicles are
running all the time, and that he hasn’t a single
emergency box on wheels ? Can't anything be
done at night when the cars aren’t running ?
Can’t anything be done at all ? This helplessness
on the part of Johnson’s department doesn’t tend
to raise the public’s opinion of Johnson.
■* * * *
One commendable innovation in the Mel-
bourne Co-operative Society’s new bakery at Rich-
mond is the provision of hot and cold baths, wash-
basins, changing rooms, lockers, etc., so that the
employees may go to and leave their work clean
and tidily dressed, ready for dinner, or theatre,
or beach, as the case may be. There is an immense
saving of time in this, and an immense saving of
labor. A thousand men in a thousand different
homes w’ant a thousand kettles of hot water, and
a thousand other preparations, just when Mrs.
Bill is busy getting the tea and the hungry
youngsters are yelling for “ pieces.” In the
factory a hot bath or a wash can be had at a
quarter the trouble it costs at home, and at less
expense. Also, instead of the engineer making
himself a nuisance on tram or train with his
greasy clothes, there is no reason why he shouldn’t
be just as tidy and desirable a passenger as the
bank clerk. His work is useful and honest; but
there is no particular virtue about his “working
clothes.”
* * * *
Miss Sutherland, Melbourne’s agitated
protector of children, is a trenchant reasoner, any-
how. The new Catmittee that wanted to oust her
put a man in charge at the city receiving home
while she was away. Afterwards she told what
happened
When I reached the receiving home I found it locked.
I got a man to jump the fence and open the iron gate.
Inside the home I found a man I didn’t know. I told him
to go or I would have him put out. He seemed
unwilling, so my assistant, Miss Coltman, and I took him
by the coat collar and ran him out. . . . And yet they
sav I am too feeble to carry on the work !
Still the Catmittee isn’t satisfied. It evidently
reckons that the hand that rocks the cradle ought
to be able to throw a man out without the assist-
ance of Miss Coltman.
* * * *
A humorous 16-year-old damsel down
Braid wood (N.S.W.) way is said to have varied
the usual joke of trying to have a man hanged.
She was left at home by her employer with a
dressmaker and a baby. Early in the day thus
the story goes —she indicated that a joyous spirit
had come upon her by poking her head through a
door and remarking, in a sepulchral, inconse-
quential way, “ What an awful thing it would be
if we were all found dead!” At 11 a.m. she
proffered some victual to the dressmaker, but
Miss Snip declined to partake of the edible
because it appeared to have been seasoned with
match-heads. At dinner time the humorous
maiden rounded off the repast with a cus-
tard, but the custard tasted so bitter that the
dressmaker “ passed.” Then the employer arrived
home, and made inquiries into the intricacies of
the humor. She found lying about the premises
several dead mice and a defunct duck (apparently
they had eaten some of the joke). Sweet Sixteen
at first explained that she had flavored the custard
with whisky. Then she said she had seasoned it
with bitter aloes from the kitchen dresser. She
also volunteered the information that she had
eaten some of the comestible, and it made tier
violently ill. About this point the Law arrived,
and the maiden produced a third explanation to
the effect that she had colored the custard with
two teaspoonfuls of pink crystals, which she had
discovered in some old place. She had done it
merely as a joke, she said. According to the
employer the jokist is a “simple and harmless
character, who was on the best of terms with the
costumiere, and there was no visible reason why
she should have put two teaspoonfuls of strych-
nine in the tradeswoman’s custard, or a neat dis-
arrangement of match heads on her bread and
butter. Yet these are the articles that are sus-
pected of having been in the food, and if it proves
that they were really there it can only be set down
as a joke—the short-skirted damsel variety of
j° ke ’ . * *
“Wink”: The following notice from an
Anglican sky pilot to his flock, in a town in South
Droughtland, tickled my fancy muchly. Here s
the item: —
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On Sunday, the 29th instant, at 7.30 p.m., a special
SERVICE
will be held at St. Wallaby’s Church,- , when
prayers for rain will be offered.
You are specially invited to be present.
N.B.— Should rain come before Sunday, then the
Service will be one of thanksgiving.
. , Rector.
A well-known local bookie was much struck, and
remarked : “So help me, if this parson bloke aint
olright ! He makes his bloomin’ book to win
every time. He’s just losin’ his bloonnn time in
the bloomin’ pulpit, he is.”
A really successful strike has been called
off at Rocky Lead (Vic.), where the inhabitants
struck against a rise in the price of beer. After
three days the publicans capitulated, and pints
are 3d. again at Rocky Lead. All the Victorian
beer strikes have been successful. There is at
least one opinion in which Australia is unanimous,
and that is that a rise
in the price or a re-
duction in the size of
the threepenny beer
is an unpardonable
offence. Perhaps the
term “public spirit”
might be abandoned in
favor of “public beer.”
BAD LUCK.
“ So you failed in your exam, again.”
“ Yes , bad luck. They gave me the same questions
I couldn't answer last year.”
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant :
St. Francis’ R.C. Church and school hall at Belmore
Markets, Sydney, are to be resumed by the City Council.
In the ’thirties, and for many years after that, the cattle
markets were there, with the public pound adjacent, and
the waters of Cockle Bay (Darling Harbor) ran close
up. On the opposite corner stood the house known in
the ’fifties as the Nelson Hotel, and later as the Golden
Fleece. In the mid ’forties it was the Angus
Maekay. His father, Murdoch Mackay, of the 78th High-
landers, and his mother, Elizabeth, came to New South
Wales in 1827, when Angus was but three years of age.
Murdoch was a carpenter at Clyde-street, Miller’s Point.
Angus, as became a good Scot, was educated at Dr.
Lang’s Australian College. He opened a school for him-
self in the house that was afterwards the Nelson Hotel.
He contributed to the Australian Magazine and to the
Atlas newspaper, established by Robert Lowe, of
which, in 1847, he became editor. In 1850 he gave up the
ATLAs’to become manager of a business at Geelong (Vic.),
for Henry Parkes. He returned to Sydney', and attached
himself to the People’s Advocate, a paper owned by E. J.
Hawkesley. Again he went to Victoria, and in 53 he
joined in purchasing the Bendigo Advertiser, and in
starting two other provincial papers. He entered the
Victorian Parliament in 1868, and sat for Bendigo until
1877. In July ’79 he came to Sydney and established the
Sydney Telegraph for a company, of which he was
manager. He was Minister of Mines under McCulloch,
and died in 1886. Dean Sheridan, when in charge of St.
Francis’, built the school-hall in the early ’seventies, the
church having been built about 10 years before. The
Dean’s presbytery was the house in Castlereagh-street,
near the Yorkshire Stingo pub, for many years the resi-
dence of William Macpherson, Clerk of the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council. #
“ Australis ” writes :
Since the smash at Sunshine the Vic. Railway Depart-
ment has equipped guards’ vans with a glass-fronted case
containing an outfit for breaking away wreckage in the
event of a collision. This outfit consists of a tomahawk and
a narrow-set hand-saw. The axe weighs about 2Jib., and
seems to have been purloined from some child’s tool-box ;
still no doubt the guard will be required by Regulation
Z5694QF to get through the iron door-fastenings and
heavy panelling somehow, and if he doesn’t —well, the
regulation will protect Tait. If that gentleman paid
more than 2s. for this lot, they saw him coming.
* * * *
From Sydney Morning Herald (13/5/’08)
St. George Starr-Bowkett Ballot and Sale Society held
two successful appropriation meetings in the Town-hall,
Rockdale, on Friday evening, in the presence of a large
gathering of members and public. The ballot was won by
No. 317, held by a lady member, residing at Kogarah,
holding two shares. She, therefore, becomes entitled to
£lOO free of interest, repayable at 3s. 2d. per week.
The above affords a lesson in the sort of self-
deception that it is possible for the eminently
respectable person to practise in regard to him or
herself. The St. George Starr-Bowkett Society is
filled with the sternest anti-gamblers of Joke
Carruthers’ old constituency. These folk do not
go racing. Cards they abhor. Tatt.’s consulta-
tions appear, in their eyes, as vile treatings with
the powers of the Under-world. They shun domi-
noes and never head ’em, nor did they ever open
a jack-pot in their lives, or bluff on a small pair.
The Starr-Bowkett brand of gamble they regard,
however, as sanctioned —in fact, sanctified in
some vague way by religion. The lady member
who drew the winning number in the St. George
flutter virtually backed a rank outsider (she held
but two shares), and her horse, which was herself,
just staggered home a winner, and landed
her, in turf parlance, a useful sum in bets. But she
would get nasty if you told her so ; wherefore
this paper doesn’t mention it, and only makes the
above remarks in confidence.
“ Wat ” : Baresark fury is a curious thine
I went volunteering once, and saw the real dvM
in-the-wool brand of baresark right enough. \y
were defending a position, and were supposed » 9
be fighting a rearguard action, and the orders we °
to hold the enemy in check as long as possib/ 9
and then cut and run to a stronger position. \y ’
defended too long, a „lj
the attacking f orce
got too close-go
close that we heard
the click of the
bayonets hei n ,»
fixed. Then the
boss remembered
his orders, and
reluctantly
gave the word
to go. Up the
hill there
came bound-
i"g about
lift. 2in. of
incarnate
fury, wav-
ing bis rifle
and bayo.
net round
his head,
shrieking
blasphemy
and threats.
I saw he had
gone bare-
sark and
dropped into
the rushes.
He went
after the
smallest man
in the divi-
sion. The
briefest
grenadier was
retreating
leisurely, and
then turned
round ami-
ably to sur-
render. One
glimpseof the
face of what
he proposed
to surrender
to sent him
bounding
away like a
kangaroo. He
collided with a
wire fence, somer-
saulted over it with a
howl, got on his hoofs,
and tucked his hind feet
under him at a fearful rate,
leaving his rifle behind. Fortunately,
the wild rush up the hill had winded the giant, and
he sat down close to my rushes, where he waited
till another pursuer came up. Then he burst out:
“ Another ten yards and I’d have stuck the
cow ! ” The other man resigned that night.
“ Troides ” : Some men have cheek. One
of the cheekiest on record has just appeared be-
fore Paddy Dwyer, at the Melbourne District
Court. He had lived with a girl for five years,
and the wages of sin appeared in due course.
Then he married another woman. The first
damsel sued for the maintenance of the wages
aforesaid —two of them j and the father told an
astov ided Bench that he oughtn’t to he expected
to keep them, as he had six legitimate infants by
a former marriage. When Baddy recovered, he
fell upon the parent like the building falling on
the Philistines, and arranged for the upkeep of
the children at the usual rates.
* * * *
“ Wyung,” from Melbourne
Melbourne Fire-Chief Stein retires from the command
of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade after 35 years’strenuous
battling with Hell in samples. He will be succeeded by
Deputy-Chief Lee. Stein joined the M.F.B. as chief when
it was instituted in April, 1891, and a lovely job he had
ahead of him. Previously there lmd been a host of hre
brigades, mostly of the volunteer brand, in the metro-
politan area. For the city proper, there was the old In-
surance Companies Brigade, with its headquarters nea
the law courts. Stein was selected to boss this latter
concern at its beginning, and he held the ]°bs of supe •
intendent and secretary all through Owingpnncipall) to
his advice, a Bill was put through Parliament™ Mareh,189l,
abolishing all the old fire brigades, and constitumigthe
Metropolitan Fire Brigade of to-day. The measure came
into force in the following month. The newheadquarte -
station on Eastern Hill was built and equipped and the
first Board was constituted. The Metropolitan are
divided into five suburban districts and one oty district.
Then the trouble started. The old volunteers had .
violently ooposed the abolition of the state 0 . f
which they had part. They were the State Fr ghts or
Melbourne in that day. Steins ref _? r ™ P 'j2! n , eer
fought bitterly from the start,_ and t e
gangs, bossed by well-to-do citizeins,
principally of amateurs attracted by te
and gorgeous Roman helmets of the old u ’ 0
heaps of sympathisers. But there was no discipline no
administration —to help them and every fire of any sik
saw more fighting amongst the firemen themsel
against the "common enemy. The crisis < 3 ame one m ght,
when the intense rivalry displayed by to 0 ™ 1 ”"** be L
city fire resulted in a whole bunch of themMg*
shot in. The best men m ° n f s f he th * ew '° brigade
were kept on the strength of the ne
as auxiliaries at a small fee, wi ", p t 0 f them
liberal pay for services at fires. There are a lot of t
at the game yet. The first superintendents
districts were volunteer chiefs, of whom ’white,
Carlton Brewery, Peter Kelly, of Fitzroy, and
pti”»»-
“SSfflS was tor
one. But he was the man for the job, and b d
the old difficulties and feuds and 3 e a]ousies
other troubles became forgotten. * _ twonldand
wasstartedtheplantconsistedoffours a lot of horse
unreliable escapes, four manual engines and a‘* narefti
reels, with ten fire alarms in the whole me P mper)
To-day the plant includes ten steamers, a motor P q
motor chemical engine, horse chemic. 2 ' gjx 0 { the
lene engines, six escapes wuth water h n ’ climbs the
“stick and hook” ladders by which rUnn ing up a
outside of a ten-storey building like . r sa j V age
window-pane, 37 hose-reels 51 hand-wel for
waggons, 67 horses, 100,000ft. of hose, f * jjlg-sheets/'
small fires, and a big equipment of J P than 6 oO
smoke-jackets, helmets, etc. There T - lbourne
alarms, using 300 miles of wire. And the q( the
Metropolitan Fire Brigade to-day is said
first for efficiency on this smiling earth de it most
But the man who evolved it, and dis-
of what it is, is now at the end of his y arra
abled, done. The heavy fall that he got An<j tQ cheer
Bank fire a fortnight ago has alon? is the
him through all the trouble that h or p enS ion.
reflection that there is n0 4 F et i n - n a a accident fund, but
Stein may get a trifle from br * e r S ,he present syste®
that is all that he is entitled to, under the p
of mean economy.
WHUSKY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Presbyterian General Assembly, sitting in Sydney,
has passed a resolution in support of no license.
Hoot, mon, awa ; an’ Scots wha’ hae,
Lay doon th’ blithesome caber ;
Blaw oot th’ fiery cross an’ play
Nae more th’ pipes an’ tabor ;
Th’ wraith o’ gentle Robbie Burns
Greets in’ th’ midnight dusky,
And Scotland staggers as it learns
O’ Scotsmen minus whusky.
Th’ Scotchbyterian tae-day
Oor cherished faith’s destroyin’,
Tli’ odor sweet o’ sanctity
Nae more th’ kirk’s enjoyin’—
Th’ odor that’s more pungent far
Than frankincense or musk ; he
Deliberately would debar
Tn’ kirk’s foundation—whusky.
But canna we indict him here
For heresy or schism ?
For bringin' tae oor feelin’s dear
This shorter cataclysm ?
Can we nae cast the Deevil oot
An’ pass, in accents husky,
Deliverance that leaves nae doot
Aboot th’ power o’ whusky ?
Ma conscience 1 But we’ll dae it too,
An’ carry a recission ;
An’ see the kirk in beauty new
Triumphant in our vision.
While of dogmatics they inveigh—
McDonald and McClusky,
And sing “ We are nae fou ” till they
Hae finished a’ th’ whusky.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOR.


r
THIS RING
CURES RHEUMATISM
slowly but surely ; it first relieves-then cures the
dreaded Rheumatism and all kindred troubles,
and we shall be glad to send you testimony to prove
it. Imitations do no good—don t accept them.
Their only recommendation is cheapness.
Ask for the GENUINE RHEUMAGNETIC RING
(Patd.)
u
Made of Highly - Polished
Steel, nickel plated, 7/6.
Booklet Free on Application.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 46-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. 2
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
$6C®
Shirt TT?ake rs.
If we did not make our owm Shirts we could not put
the quality and value into them that we do. Made on
our own premises there is a quality in the materials —a
degree of perfection in the cutting, and a comfort in the
fit that you cannot purchase elsewhere at any price.
A NEW WOOL SHIRT FOR WINTER WEAR in Green,
Red, and Brown stripes—soft and comfortable, with or
without new shape soft, detachable collar and turned-
back cuffs.
WITH SOFT COLLAR AND TURNED-BACK
CUFFS, 9/6.
WITHOUT COLLAR AND WITH
WRIST BANDS, 8/6.
Please send Size of Collar worn.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
About auS. Australian matter that smells
like a myth at one end and a desperate struggle
after beer-money at the other :
Before steam arrived, the ancient Mount Barker-road,
that winds through the lonely southern hills, had a toll-
house. While it was in existence the road was for years kept
in good order ; but when the railway happened hardly
sufficient funds came in to pay the attendant’s dog’s-meat
bill, so he was retrenched. The toll-house is still stand-
ing, and drivers allege that on some dark nights a light
still shines in the queer little building, and a spook with
a lantern in its hand stalks out and demands the ancient
toll.
ir * * *
The credulity of woman is occasionally as
large even as man thinks it is. This fact was ex-
emplified in a divorce case which recently came
before a Melbourne court. The lady—she was a
mature matron of 44 and had a son of 17 by a
former marriage—had not been living very happily
with her second experimen t. It was alleged that, to
atone for an over-abundance of hot argument,
there was a shortage of even cold meat. She,
therefore, sought other distractions and learnt the
banjo. That was bad enough, but, worse, the
banjoist introduced her to a spiritualist whose
proselyte she became. He publicly carried
on the profession of a sculptor, and was con-
siderably more ancient than herself. Moreover,
he had ideals and aesthetic feelings. She visited
him seven or eight times in the capacity
of a trance medium, and seems to have got the
worth of her money in the way of thrills. Accord-
ing to her, he would mesmerise her into a sort of
half-conscious state, and breathe upon her, and
his breath, she said, “was fumigated with some-
thing which made her feel weak and cry bitterly.”
After that, he would narrate strange, weird
happenings in former stages of their existence.
He would become passiqpately expansive on the
theory of reincarnation ; tell her how she was once
his divinelv-beautiful model, while he was a soul-
ful, inspired artist; how she rose to greatness and
wrote a book; and how eventually he married
her. She absorbed these tender memories of a
frantic past with a woman’s incredible gusto, yet
she still averred that, if misconduct took place,
she had no knowledge of it. Her husband
thought otherwise. He was a materialist. To
her spiritualistic maunderings he only remarked
“Rats ! ” and asked for a decree nisi. He got it.
THE GENERAL REVIEWS HER FORCES.
As a result of the extraordinary falling off
in the milk-supply of Melbourne, customers are
complaining bitterly of short measure, and re-
tailers, posing as public benefactors, point out
that they have to give short measure in order to
make the cow-slop go round. Responsibility for
the trouble, it appears, rests with the authorities,
who are enforcing the law so stringently that the
millc-o cannot increase the metropolitan milk
supply from the horse trough without running
grave risk of detection and fine. The heroic
milkman giving short measure in a philanthropic
effort to serve all alike reminds The Bulletin of
that other fine-spirited citizen who, as head of a
great financial concern, finding he had not money
to pay all the creditors, decamped with the lot
“in order to prevent jealousy.”
MANLINESS.
THE MIŚUS OF THE HOUSE (concluding a trifling disagreement with the rent man, to her
husband): “Now, yer brute, if yer are a man, ’it ’im now, ’it ’im now!"
The S. Australian Full Court had a curious
little point to settle the other day. A man
married a girl with some money of her own, and
then promptly cleared out with some of it and
poured it forth on the other hussy. The wife felt
quite annoyed, and had a warrant issued for his
arrest. He was found having a more or less gay
time in Sydney, and was brought back and sen-
tenced. The South Aus. Divorce law required
the lady to prove desertion for 12 months or more ;
and the question was whether the gentleman had
deserted the lady for 12 months, seeing that she
had brought him back and got him put somewhere
where he couldn’t grace the family fireside and
growl at the lady’s cooking even if he wanted to.
One Judge hung the matter up for the opinion of
the other two ; but the other two agreed with the
third that there had been as much desertion as
the law demanded ; so the lady got her divorce.
“The Swimmer”.' Wanganui is not the
only place in Maoriland where children should be
protected against preposterous parents who foist
upon helpless offspring
ridiculous front names
which are intended to
perpetuate some tinpot
local event that happened
about the time of their
birth. Quite a number of
innocent babes, born at
various places that the
Premier visited during his
recent tour of the North
Island, have been com-
pelled by misguided or
shattered parents to carry
through life the names of
Joseph George in conse-
quence ; provided, of
course, that they were of
the same sex as Joseph
George. But one enthusi-
astic soul surmounted
even this difficulty by
naming his infant daugh-
ter Josephine Georgina,
and I believe that if this
particular increase of popu-
lation had not taken place
simultaneously with the
arrival of ths Premier’s
motor car at the village, the infatuated father
would have forcibly detained the head of the
Government till it happened. I emphatically
endorse The Bulletin’s suggestion that the
children of such parents should be numbered
to go on with, and allowed to choose their own
names when they attain to years of dissipation.
“ Javelin ” : The inquiry into the Sun-
shine (Vic.) disaster might be extended to cover
the whole system of railway management. People
outside the service have no idea of how officers
occupying responsible positions are worried and
harried by trifles. For instance, engine-drivers
are constantly invited to reveal why a pound or so
of coal in excess of the usual allowance per train
mile was consumed on a certain trip. There may
be many reasons—slippery rails, a strong head
wind, or the like —why the engine had to have
more food than usual, just as there inay be good
reason why Tait eats more dinner one day than
another. But the driver is called upon per memo
to explain the reason of that extra shovelful of
coal. He explains. The next memo says that
“ a further explanation is required.” He explains
further. The third memo says that his excuse is
not satisfactory, and he explains some more. The
tenth memo or thereabouts asks him if he can
show any reason why he shouldn’t be fined. And
yet Tait isn’t fined when he eats an ounce more
dinner than his average, nor has he to fill in any
silly old memo.
“ To what do you attribute your
Pre-eminence?” asked the interviewer
Of Madam Melba lately.
“ What keeps your voice so clear and pure,
The tone so steady, firm, and sure,
That charms the world so greatly ? ”
“ I kill a cold at once,” said she,
“ With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure, you see 1 ”*
* * * *
After all, woman remains the same old
mystery. Asked in a Melbourne Court lately if
her husband hadn’t blackened her eyes a score of
times, one of her proudly replied—“ Yes, but
that was before we were married.”
“ Runa ” writes :
Consider this advertisement:—
Ty ANTED, competent apd industrious young Lady
'' as COMPANION tochild of 6, light household
duties, must be expert needlewoman,- pers. refs., Eng.
accent essential. 373 Herald Office.
I read it, the other morning, whilst travelling Sydney*
wards from the plutocratic suburb of Strathfield, and
whilst wondering what might be the exact kind of speech
required along with the housemaid-needlewoman-com-
panion, my ears were arrested by the strange accents
which proceeded from the lips of two ladies who seated
themselves in my vicinity. They were mother and
daughter, I judged, from the similarity of their high-
bridged noses and the alert expression of their cold, blue
eyes. I likewise concluded they were Englishwomen from
the severity of the dull grey, tailor-built gowns and the size
of the broad-welted boots, planted down firmly after the
invariable fashion of the Britisher. “ What shockin’,
carriages they do have on Australian railways,” ejacu-
lated the elder, as she settled her angles into a nicely-
padded corner, “ just like what I’ve heard our third are
at home.” “I suppose so,” replied the daughter, “and
only think of it—they have no third heah at all! ” At
the next station two equally English-looking ladies
joined them, and were greeted with, “ Oh, heah you are.
How awf’ly naice of you to come. I was afraid it would
not be faine enough for you to venture.” These things
were said at the top of exceedingly high-pitched voices,
and all parties concerned indulged in the side-flap
hand waggle, which a morning contemporary tells
us is now the correct hand shake. The quartette
shook themselves down, and for the rest of the journey
kept up an animated chatter. The remarks were pitched
in such a key that the whole carriage might have had a
lesson in the pronunciation of “ heah,” “ theah,” “ naice,”
“maight,” “goin’,” “coinin’,” “gels,” and every other
word that lent itself to the British treatment, and the
whole conversation was interlarded with forced giggles.
A tremendous giggle came from the eldest of the group
as she drew attention to her daughter’s hat, which, she
said, had been purchased at a Sydney shop. “ Won’t
they be amused when they see me wearing a hat from
Sydney when I go home ?” tittered Emmeline, and they
all tittered in chorus, as if it had been suggested that the
young woman might appear in a London drawing-room
attired in a bead necklace from Fiji or a tuft of grass
from the Sandwich Isles. “And, weally, she doesn’t look too
bad in it,” said one, as she lifted her eyeglass on to the
article under discussion, which had probably come from a
London workshop in the first place. An old gentleman,
who had been snorting audibly ever since their chatter
began, and vainly trying to digest a S. M. Herald leader,
glared at this last piece of idiocy, and in his efforts to
leave the train, before it came to a standstill, trod
on the large toe of Emmeline that was aggressively as-
serting itself in the aisle. I think his feelings were quite
understandable, and I feel very sad when I think that
poor little kiddy of six may have found some one
to drill into her plastic mind that dreadful accent and
the views that go with it. And I know that my quartette
had the kind of accent that was advertised for, for they
were of the Naicest People, and they spoke with touch-
ing familiarity of the iDudleys, of dear Lady Poore, and
other scions of the nobility, and they expressed such
sisterly sympathy with poor Lady Northcote, whose
exile, they said, was happily nearing an end.
* * * *
The Melbourne Coroner is conducting in
an extraordinary fashion the Braybrook disaster
inquiry. He allows the Westinghouse Brake Co.
to be represented by counsel, but refuses to allow
counsel to appear for the relatives of some of the
deceased.
* * * *
“Stony”: Malvern, that Melbourne
suburb where dwell the Slightly Rich, has an air
almost of gentility, nowadays ; the shop-stuffing
only shows through under considerable stress, and
there the commercial traveller and the decayed
lawyer live in some comfort their artificial lives of
cribbage and ten-o’clock whisky. But Malvern
owns a canker which bids fair to rot its fair apple
of respectability. That canker is the Push. Mal-
vern has several Pushes, as a fact, of almost equal
vice and weediness and rat-like habit. The
shameful under-policing of Melbourne’s suburbs
has to do with this state of affairs, there
being two or three policemen to do duty
over tremendous areas. These Malvern rats
live in their holes in the daytime, mostly,
and come out to slouch about the streets
at night. A casual day-traveller can have no con-
ception of their number. Sometimes, however,
the fierce, white light of the police court beats
upon them, and a sorry lot they are in the day-
time. The other morning, when three of their
ghastly company were up at the local court on a
charge of assault and robbery—they were alleged
to have set upon a man who, a little while before,
had bought them drinks ! —the Pushes, and the
Pushlets, and the horrible hangers-on of the
Pushes came up in force to cheer the prisoners as
they were brought, handcuffed, out of the Malvern
halls of justice. There was a scene of unseemly
Push-enthusiasm as the accused were deported ;
the air was rent with loud cries of admiration and
encouragement—and these men-thingswerealleged
to have drunk beer for which their victim paid !
Still, the police authorities have other things to
think of than suppressing the Pushes—duties such
as arranging imitation “arrivals” of suspected
murderers; movings-on of the ladies to whom
Judkins used to object; and keeping back the
respectable, sheep-like crowd which goes to fare-
well the Loongana every other afternoon. But
the Push should surely get a turn now and again,
for a change. Malvern is only one suburb which,
under a fair exterior, is compelled to hug a viper
to its bosom because of insufficient police protec-
tion and inadequate attention from expert detec-
tives. There are many others, and the viper
varies in size.
LATITUDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Burton-on-Trent (England) the clergy of the Estab-
lished Church have almost as a body declared against the
Licensing Bill of the present Government. Burton-on-
Treut is the home of the brewing industry.—Akous.
The goodly clergy as a rule
Are hard on beer and rough on brandy ;
They’re of the Rechabitish school,
And have a heap of mottoes handy
To show that liquor is a curse
That stingeth like a snake, or worse.
The texts they use
Do not excuse
The men who brew or barter booze.
’Tis so in towns of common kind,
Or with the farmers and the hewers ;
But what a different case we find
In Burton ’mid the portly brewers !
They don’t teach there that any club
Will serve for him who keeps a pub.
There churches too,
• Prom Burton brew,
Derive their splendid revenue.
The sin our Judkinses would crush
With methods ruthless, quick and certain,
Would make a pious brother blush
If used on publicans at Burton.
Well, sin, we’re told by sceptics rude,
A matter is of latitude,
And any gent
Of pious bent
Allows a lot upon the Trent.
vie.
SILAS SNELL.
A RIME OF OUR IRREVERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An eminent dignitary of the church, and an equally
distinguished representative of commerce and literature,
speaking in different centres and from different points of
view, have come to the curious agreement that Australians
are lacking in reverence, and that this amounts to a
serious national fault.—Argus (11/5/’08).
Now, what is this bump on the brow of me, who am an
Australian born ?
O, I am a native, bold and free, with a proper Australian
scorn
For the tuppenny frills of a world effete and the people
that dwell therein,
And for those that arise to gird, with heat, at the pride
of their ’cross-seas kin.
But, please, kind sirs, who take such pains to show us our
humble place,
Would you kindly get your cultured brains to work on a
sample case ?
This bump you see—does it seem to you to signify good,
sound sense,
Or does it appear to your expert view as the bump of
irreverence ?
Of course, the simple and childish soul who comes from
the beastly Bush,
He can’t compare, in part or whole, with the proud, im-
ported push ;
But we (please, sir) mean no offence when we say Aus-
tralia’s fine,
For, though we’re slack in our reverence, in self-respect
we shine ;
And self-respect is a splendid thing, as the top-dog
nations know,
And hence, you understand, we sling straight talk to high
or low.
Oh, no—it’s not for us to pose as a nation of knaves for-
lorn,
Nor to lick the lovely boots of those who ain’t Cawlonial
born !
That most superior few whose blood beats blue all round
their souls,
To them the legion surnamed Mud may do kow-tow in
shoals
In their own native slums afar—wherever their kingdoms
he—
But the god who sits in the blue-blood car don’t thrill
plain Bill and me ;
For handsome is as handsome does when you live this side
the earth,
And the ancient Bonds-of-Empire buzz is a buzz that
makes for mirth
When a chatterer gets the Bonds abused by his cry for
a reverent crawl
At the feet of the folk who’ve never been used to people
like us at all!
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


Arthur Leplastrier & Co.
THE FIRM THAT SPECIALISES IN
STEEL SIDE TIPPING MINING TRUCKS, STEEL RAILS,
STEEL SLEEPERS, POINTS AND CROSSINGS, Etc.
64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CAMERON &SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY: Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Street
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDICO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants In any Quantity
IN STOCK— Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam lumps
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes.
Sole Agents for Camel Brand and Camel Hair Beltings, made only by F. Roddaway & Co., ■’
Manchester; Ransomes Sims’, and Jefferies Ltd’s Portable Traction and Stationary B
The WILD CAT COLUMN
No less than a dozen of the larger Northern
(N.S.W.) collieries were idle one recent week, having out-
stripped the railway facilities at Newcastle. There has been
an abnormal rush of shipping to the port for cargoes, and,
though the mines have turned out the stuff to meet the
orders, the trucks have simply been piled up on the coal
sidings, waiting for Mr. Johnson to shift them to the
cranes. Incidentally, there is a side light here for those
people who were lately shocked to see that men were
striking, though they had got as much as 15s. a shift.
As pointed out then, coal-mining is an exceptionally pre-
carious business. The trade conies in gusts, and enough
men are kept on the books to meet these sudden rushes.
Then, even in the middle of the rush, something goes
wrong, and a dozen mines are idle. (Note that it is always
put that way—not that the miners have been knocked off
without pay.) Presently the gust dies away, and men
who averaged five days a week have to be satisfied with a
couple of days, or even less. When ships crowd the har-
bor these men work fiercely, making the best of their rare
chances ; and that’s how they come to pile up records of
15s. or so a shift.
By the way, the yarn goes round in N.S.W.
railway circles that soon after Mr. Johnson arrived, and
when he learned what rolling stock he had at command,
he said he should want £1,000,000 to provide enough
trucks, engines, etc., to meet rush requirements. Car-
ruthers replied by getting £25,000 voted, which
was enough to provide one engine and one truck
where Johnson is alleged to have said he wanted 40.
Assuming the yarn is true, the experience with Johnson
is the experience with Eddy over again. Eddy, shortly
after he arrived, required not only a tremendous increase
in the way of expenditure on duplications, etc., but also
that £1,000,000 should be voted and spent in improving
the rolling stock, such money not to be charged against the
railways. The £1,000,000 was granted ; and thereafter,
year after year, £75,000 was voted from the Consolidated
Revenue to wipe out the debentures on which the money
was borrowed. Therefore, though admittedly Eddy did
good work, the fact remains that, in comparing his work
with Goodchap’s, he had what amounted to a bonus of
£75,000 a year, which Goodchap had Buckley’s chance of
getting. In the same way, Oliver, the Australian, know-
ing Australian conditions, was able to pull through and
give general satisfaction to railway users on the old basis ;
while the imported genius, who doesn’t know Australian
conditions, wants a million, like Eddy did, and when he
can’t get it there is confusion at Newcastle, confusion at
Lithgow, and a horrible tangle in connection with the
shifting of starving stock. Oliver, in short, knew Aus-
tralian conditions, and was able to make the best use of
his stock ; a foreign genius, who doesn’t know those con-
ditions, and therefore can’t prepare to meet them, has to
ask for a million to provide a substitute for the special
knowledge of the Australian who was sacked.
* * * *
The Western Australian Bank :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1902.. £17,416 I7i p.c. = £8,750 £8,666 £241,797
Sept.', 1902.. 15,489 l7| „ „ 8,750 6,739 248,536
Mar., 1903.. 18,780 17£ ~ „ 8,750 10,030 258,566
Sept-., 1903.. 20,974 17£ ~ „ 8,750 12,224 270,790
Premiums on 2500 new shares 31,250 302,040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 I7*p.c.= 10,938 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17£ ~ „ 10,938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 17£ „ ~ 10,938 10,295 337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20 „ „ 12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.c.= 12,500 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 „ „ 15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,758 20 ~ „ 15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 „ „ 15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums paid on 2500 new shares 31,560 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,568 20 p.c.= 17,006 6,562 449,440
When the new gold finds in the West turned thousands of
noses towards Perth, the Western Australian Bank, though
of great antiquity, was—say 15 years ago—a small concern
with a paid capital of £BO,OOO and reserves of £116,485.
Already the rush of business was inducing the directors
to issue new shares ; at this time 15 years ago 1000 were
being sent out among shareholders at an average price of
£25 6s. sd. per £lO share ; for even then the bank was
paying 17£ per cent, dividends. By degrees the paid
capital has been brought up from £BO,OOO to the present
£175,000, and out of the premiums a fine reserve fund has
been built up. The practice has been either to make a
pro rata distribution or call for tenders from share-
holders: the latter, which was the original plan, has just
been adopted, and an average of £27 3s. 6d. has been
realised for the 2500 new £lO shares. All the premiums
from this last lot have not yet been received ; when it is all
in it will mean a total addition of £42,932 to the reserves.
Four years ago the premium was £l2 10s.; two years ago
it was £lO ; the present premium is £l7 3s. 6d. When the
large premiums which have been paid for more than half
the shares are taken ipto account, the present nominal 20
per cent, dividend shrinks to an actual 10 per cent, or
less. Thus, allowing for the premium, the actual yield
on the new issue is only 7J per cent. ; and to that extent
the 20 per cent, is misleading. It is undoubtedly danger-
ous, from the shareholders’ point of view, to show such
excessive dividends. It is perfectly true that a large
body of the sheep-like public, either as lender or as bor-
rower, prefers to “ do ” with a bank which is paying out
dividends of an impressive size ; but the big public is be-
ginning to take a practical interest in these matters, and
to frown on 20 per cent, yields, and there is menace in
that frown. This bank is really inviting a menace which
it doesn’t deserve.
Some other recent movements of the Westralian
Bank: —
Mar., 1907. Mar., 1908.
Notes in circulation.. £124,483 £107,520 Dec. £16,963
Bills etc 81,743 143,899 Inc. 62,156
Deposits at interest.. 943,736 780,060 Dec. 163,676
Deposits, free ..1,225,882 1,143,355 Dec. 82,527
Liquid assets.. .. 1,172,849 964,004 Dec. 208,845
Advances .. .. 1,703,820 1,787,277 Inc. 83,457
Premises .. .. 62,500 65,000 Inc. 2,500
So in 12 months the public’s money held by this bank (in-
cluding balances due to other banks) has been reduced by
£201,010. At the same time the bank has increased its
advances by £83,457. Those two together are £284,467 ;
and that sum has been provided in this Way
By reduction of liquid assets .. .. £208,845
By increase of capital and reserves .. 78,122
Total £286,967
Less put into premises 2,500
£284,467
The earnings are still large, though they are not what
they were. On the basis of capital and reserves as at the
beginning of each term, recent profits have been as
follows
Sept., 1904.. £ll 6 9 p.c. Sept., 1906.. £9 1 9 p.c.
Mar., 1905.. 9 7 9 „ Mar., 1907.. 9 3 10 „
Sept., 1905.. 9 4 9,, Sept., 1907.. 10 4 2 ~
Mar., 1906.. 8 14 5 „ Mar., 1908.. 8 7 11 „
But the comparison isn’t very exact, because of the fre-
quent increases of capital. Thus during the past half-year
the bank has part of the time had the use of some of the
new capital and reserves ; if that w’ere taken into account
the shrinkage in profits would show up greater. But the
published figures of a bank doing business only in a State
with so many mushroom centres are not at all likely to
tell everything-. One very important question is :
What provision does it make for sudden slumps V
When things are booming, it is generally easy enough
to show big profits and big figures ; the real
test comes when the boom bursts. Then, and not till
then, can we find out to What extent the bank has been
writing down the book value of doubtful securities, using
some of the so-called profits of the boom-period for the
purpose. From the fact that, with about 50 branches,
this bank’s premises account stands at only £65,000, it
can only be said that it looks as though the management
is cautious and prudent; also it is obvious that it is
pushing business in the more settled districts. The very
large profits of the past will no doubt taper off in the
future ; the time will come, for instance, when the bank
won’t have so large a proportion of free, as distinguished
from interest-bearing, deposits—the time when a mere
2£ or 3 per cent, or so won’t be despised, as it apparently
is to-day.
* * * *
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (Sydney)
Net Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1901 .. £3Ol 6 p.c. = £45 £256 £256
1902 .. 1528 6 ~ „ 104 £1262 162 418
1903 .. 2957 6 „ „ 253 2583 121 539
1904 .. 2778 6 „ „ 320 2147 311 850
1905 .. 4958 6 „ ~ 368 4188 402 1252
1906 .. 4206 6 „ „ 432 4126 900
1907 .. 4352 6 ~ ~ 479 3873 900
1908 .. 8010 6 „ „ 535 7285 190 1090
The bonus is equal to 35 per cent, of the commissions
collected from consignors of dairy produce, and 10 per
cent, of the commissions on maize consignments. But of
the 35 per cent, bonus 10 per cent, is to be paid in the
shape of shares in the co., so that the money remains in
the business. This or some other plan of increasing the
capital was badly needed ; for on account of the very rapid
and large increase of business, the capital is now much too
small in proportion to either turnover or book-debts.
The same result would, of course, be achieved by putting
that additional 10 per cent, to reserves ; in that case also
the co. wouldn’t be expected to pay dividends on it. But,
until the principles of co-operation get more firmly rooted,
the co-operative co. will have to offer all the inducements
it can, for it will have a tough fight with the Private
Enterprise produce-person, who has made a study of the
art of offering what look like large concessions with one
hand, and making the unsuspecting Cow-raiser pay for
them into his other hand. And then there is always
hanging around the Co-operative Society’s premises the
idea that the profits made in one year belong to that
year’s co-operators, because they may not be co-operators
next year. It is a selfish idea at best, though ; even
granted that there is some truth in it as a matter
of theory, surely as a matter of practice the co-
operators are prepared to make a little sacrifice in order
to build up and strengthen the concern, with which,
moreover, in 95 cases out of 100, they will go on being
personally connected. However, this plan of applying
some of the 35 per cent, bonus to capital is a very fair
compromise, especially as none of the shares are prefer-
ence. The co., apart from ordinary small trade debts and
consignors’ balances, owes nothing: the total of these
items is £39,427. On the other side are bank balances
and cash, £19,372 ; and book debts, £35,096. The latter
item looks large —is large for a co. with a paid capital of
£8909. But it doesn’t seem so large when the turnover is
considered ; the total for last year was £642,237. For-
tunately, practically the whole of the capital is liquid,
and is thus immediately available to protect consignors
and other creditors in case the co. should be struck by a
hail of bad debts. All the same, in view of the growth of
the business,' and consequently of the risks, a strong
effort should be made to increase certainly the reserves
and, if the co. pleases, the capital also.
* * * *
The Equitable Permanent Benefit, Building,
Land and Savings Institution (Sydney)
Written Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1899 .. £7,810 9 per cent. = £6363 £421 £28,339
1900 .. No information supplied 317 26,785
1901 . 7,556 9 per cent. = 6373 1286 26,682
1902 .. 8,431 9 „ „ 6338 522 28,253
1903 .. 8,466 12 ~ „ 8451 210 28,058
1904 .. 8,966 9 „ „ 6338 1053 29,633
1905 .. 9,086 9 ~ ~ 6338 30 32,351
1906 .. 9,555 12 ~, „ 8451 687 32,768
1907 .. 9,875 9 „ „ 6338 36,305
1908 .. 10,102 9 „ ~ 6338 518 39,551
Though the profits have been larger there has been a slight
shrinkage in business during the year, which in the
natural course of events should show its effect in slightly
reduced profits next year. ♦ The deposits have, for
instance, moved this way :
1901 .. £93,553 1905 .. £138,211
1902 .. 94,338 1906 .. 152,350
1903 .. 108,277 1907 .. 153,540
1904 .. 127,476 1908 .. 149,868
In the same way advances have gone back during the year
from £230,379 to £224,725 ; and the bank balance, which
yields little profit, has moved up from £1274 to £6402.
No doubt this is largely due to the keener competition of
banks and other financial concerns which have been flush
of money and have been pursuing the advance business
more strenuously than usual; also private firms, financed
by large capitalists who can’t find other suitable invest-
ments, have been pushing the “Be your own landlord”
business. Under the circumstances- it is really sur-
prising that these older building societies have done
as well as they- have. Certainly there has been
a general feeling of confidence during the past three or
four years, and small capitalists have undertaken liabili-
ties for buildings ; but the conditions of the past three or
four vears can’t last—in fact, it looks very much as
though they have ended. If we go back to 1903, we
shall find that this society’s advances were £183,930 ; and
it is a question whether that isn’t closer to normal than
the £230,000 or so of the last two years. As to
profits, however, this co. is very well situated, because
(provided there are no heavy losses to make good)
it will have at least £lO,OOO more of its own money to
lend out than it had five years ago. All the shares
(70,425) are now fully paid ; some time ago there were a
few contributing shares which got only 8 per cent. In
addition to the regular 9 per cent., there has been for
many years a triennial distribution equal to another 1 per
cent per annum.
* * * *
The Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway Co.,
from the amalgamation with the North Lyell:—
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £2048
Reserves.
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil 113,124
Sept., 1904.. 129,502 12£ p.c. =£78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12 „ „ 78,750 £8,764 238,087
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 12£ ~ „ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 „ ~126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 „ ~ 157,500 10,071 568,907
Mar., 1907.. 282,938 32J „ „ 205,074 11,515 635,256
Sept., 1907.. 150,625 35 „ ~220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 1908.. 141,731 20 „ ~126,168 9,723 559,430
But the accounts of a concern like Mt. Lyell never show
the actual profit on the half-year’s output; for it is
impossible to have a complete cleaning-up. At the
end of September, 1907, the co. found itself left with
no less than 2389 tons of copper. The market was
then falling rapidly, and the co. simply couldn’t get
delivery taken of the metal. In some alarm the directors
six months ago took credit for this stock of metal at only
£5O, so they stated after the report was issued. Actu-
ally, according to the present report, that large unsold
stock averaged £6l 7s. 7d. per ton ; therefore the co. re-
ceived £27,185 during the half-year byway of surplus on
the previous half-year’s output. Against that is to be set
the stock in hand on March 31. But that amounted to
only 908 tons ; and though that also has been taken into
account at only £5O per ton, not only is the quantity
much less, but the market is also weaker than it was six
months ago. Even allowing that an average of £8 per
ton more will be realised than has been taken
credit for, the total to come into next half-year’s
accounts will be only £7264, as against the £27,185 by
which the now-issued accounts have been swollen at the
expense of the previous half-year. In short, though the
published accounts show a fall only from £150,625 to
£141,731 in profits, there has actually been a fall from
about £177,000 to £121,000. For that the metal slump is
wholly responsible. The average price realised for copper
during the past four half years has been : —Sept., 1906,
£85 9s.; Mar., 1907, £106 9s. 3d. ; Sept., 1907, £96 15s. 6d.;
Mar., 1908, £61 7s. lOd. When the last two quotations
are compared, the absurdity of assuming that there was
a difference of only £9000 or so between the profits of the
last two terms becomes very apparent.
Mt. Lyell’s output for the past few terms has
been as follows :—
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Sept., 1905 .. 4253 tons. 365,440 oz. 12,425 oz.
Mar., 1906 .. 4565 „ 374,762 „ 12,342 „
Sept., 1906 .. 4444 „ 329,183 „ 10,746 „
Mar., 1907 .. 3796 „ 355,372 „ 10,115 „
Sept., 1907 .. 4090 „ 344,715 „ 9,334 „
Mar., 1908 .. 4247 „ 344,608 „ 10,489 „
But for this increase in output the half-year would have
shown a much larger shrinkage in profits. And the in-
crease was accompanied by a shrinkage in costs : —
Mar., Mar., Mar., Sept., Mar.,
1905. 1906. 1907. 1907. 1908.
Mining, etc.. 4/11-91 5/3'82 5/10T2 5/10'69 6/4'35
Smelting .. 6/5'13 6/9'98 7/5'3'2 8/4'19 7/9'60
Converting.. l/7'35 1/5-25 1/1'53 l/2'32 l/2'44
13/0-39 13/7'05 14/4-97 15/5-20 15/4-39
It doesn’t amount to much, it is true ; but every penny
helps in a half-yearly output of 209,743 tons of ore. The
figure is still, however, much higher than it was, mainly
because as copper moved up other things also moved up
probably there was one common cause at work. Even
allowing for the increase in metal production and the
small reduction in costs, it is still difficult to believe that
a fall of £35 per ton in copper hasn’t made a greater dif-
ference in profits than even the above calculations sug-
gested. Anyway, at £96 4090 tons of copper would
be worth £392,640, and 4247 tons at £61 would be worth
only £259,067, and there’s a difference of £133,573 between
those two amounts. After allowing for depreciation, and
disregarding one or two reserve accounts, the net profit
in one half-year is said to be £128,981, and in the other
£128,729 ; and, in view of the foregoing figures, accounts
which work out in that way can really not be regarded
seriously.
If the change in the state of the finances has
therefore been infinitely worse than the Mount Lyell
accounts suggest, the change in the state of the mine has
been very satisfactory indeed. In the first half-3 r ear after
the Lyell and North Lyell were put. into one pot,
General-manager Sticht estimated the Lyell’s reserves at
4,495,310 tons worth 0’59 per cent, copper, l-99oz. silver,
and 0-04oz. gold ; the North Lyell’s down to 500ft. at
170,494 tons, worth on past results 6’25 per cent, copper,
2"25oa. silver, and 0'005oz. gold. The present estimate is
for Lyell, 3,523,416 tons, worth 0'54 per cent, copper, 1 -96oz.
silver, and 0’03oz. gold ; and for North Lyell, 606,658 tons,
worth 5-75 per cent, copper, l'33oz. silver, and O'OOSoz.
gold. Yet between August, 1903, and March, 1908,
1,329,091 tons were taken from Lyell, and 518,104 tons
from North Lyell and the smaller properties. But the
North Lyell has now been more or less explored to 1000ft.,
or twice the depth reached five years ago.
When the two Lyells were amalgamated, the
new co. took over the North Lyell’s debentures, and has
since been buying them up in this way :—
Debentures Retired Special
Outstanding. During Term. Reserve.
Aug., 1903 .. £140,000 — —
Mar., 1904 .. 120,000 £20,000 £1000
Sept., 1904 .. 97,750 22,250 1556
Mar., 1905 .. 89,760 7,990 1899
Sept., 1905 .. 78,420 11,340 1553
Mar., 1906 .. 76,720 1,700 1469
Sept., 1906 .. 45,220 31,500 —
Mar., 1907 .. 43,120 2,100 —
Sept., 1907 .. 40,200 2,920 —
Mar., 1908 .. 40,100 100 —
As mine prospects have improved, the debentures have
hardened, so no profit has been possible on recent pur-
chases, and the special reserve, consisting of those profits,
has disappeared. The debentures themselves mature this
half-year, and will be paid off. For that purpose there is
ample money, the liquid surplus at the end of the year
amounting to £455,563.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 Co., which digs up
silver, lead and zinc, and occasionally also some troubles :
Ore Value.
handled. ,, > Divi-
Tons. Silver. Lead. Profit, dends.
Sept., 1902.. 42,825 16’44oz. 17-89 p.c. £720 Nil
Mar., 1903.. 50,279 14-01 ,, 16T3 „ 1,509 Nil
Loss.
Sept., 1903.. 49,778 14-54 ,, 16-39 ,, 1,777 Nil
Profit.
Mar., 1904.. 69,777 13‘8 „ 15’2 „ 12,680 Nil
Sept., 1904.. 70,643 13T5 „ I4'8 „ 11,090 Nil
Mar., 1905.. 69,687 14T3 „ 14-92 ,, 20,438 Nil
o * -iook j 79,073 14*1 ,, 15*1 ,, 41,376 ] Ann
Sept., 1905.. -j g a j e 0 f stored by-products 72,964 j ’
Mar., 1906.. 72,364 14-0oz. 13 - 5p.c. 46,804 60,000
Sept., 1906.. 70,947 1ST1 „ 13T9 „ 49.625 30,000
Mar., 1907.. 70,770 12-34 ,, 13-32 „ 61,945 55,000
Sept., 1907.. 73,816 13‘72 „ 13-93 „ 65,786 50,000
Mar., 1908.. 69,121 14-24 ,, 15-49 „ 12,256 30,000
The increased values for the past half-year are due mainly
to the output of 2297 tons of mixed carbonates and
sulphides, worth nearly 22oz. silver and 32 per cent. lead.
The figures as to values are, by the way, not stated in the
report, but are calculated from data therein. The profit
is shown gross without deduction for depreciation or wear
and tear. It is made up in this way (previous three half-
years added for comparison): —
Sept., Mar., Sept., Mar.,
1906. 1907. 1907. 1908.
Silver-lead concentrates.. £40,358 £46,148 £51,243 £21,041
Stored by-products (in-
stalments) .. .. 6,218 12,381 10,000 Nil
Current by-products (un-
sold) 3,049 3,041 3,113 2,765
Interest — 375 1,430 788
£49,625 £61,945 £65,786 £24,594
Less reclamations on final
adjustments .. .. — — — 12,338
Profit .. .. £49,625 £61,945 £65,786 £12,256
The concentrates are sold on the basis of the market-
prices three months after delivery ; and, in consequence
of the rapid fall in prices, the co. has lately had to refund
£12,338 for which credit had been taken in the previous
half-year. No doubt this amount might very properly
be knocked off the previous term’s profits ; but there is
this against it—previously surpluses received during a
half-year have been added ; to that half-year’s profits
(indeed, this co. hasn’t distinguished them from other
profits); and if surpluses are treated that w-ay, so should
deficits be.
Block 10’s concentrates in the last six months
contained 7194 tons lead, besides silver. The mixed car-
bonates and sulphides shipped direct contained 735 tons.
The total lead output was therefore 7929 tons. Disre-
garding the reclamations for the moment, the gross
profit was £24,594, which was at the rate of £3 2s.
per ton of lead. The average price ruling for lead during
the half-year was £15 16s. ; therefore the cost price was
all the silver, plus Is. per ton of by-products, plus
£12 14s. per ton of lead. And as lead is now w-orth
about £13 only, while silver is worth 2d. per oz. less than
the average for last half-year, the situation doesn’t look
at all comfortable. The one thing to be set against this is
the probability that, in view of the rapidly falling
market, a too-great margin was allowed, and that a few
thousands may be recovered in the current half-year in
the shape of surpluses. It has to be remembered that
the profits for the six months include the proceeds of
the shipments of rich carbonates. These shipments
brought £2 14s. per ton, while the average mining costs
were under 11s. 7£d. per ton. There is a little of this ore
left in the mine, but it is difficult and costly to get at.
The surplus of Block 10’s liquid assets over
liabilities is alleged to amount to £155,563, but that
includes £98,901 owing by the Zinc Corporation on
account of its purchases of by-products ; and, as previously
remarked, though £10,000 fell due during the past term
it wasn’t paid. “Negotiations are, however,” the Board
reports, “ in progress for a definite arrangement.” That
doesn’t look at all as though the £98,901 is as liquid as it
might be. Then another £20,042 of the alleged liquid
surplus of £155,563 is represented by “ by-products on
hand at mine unsold,” and another £9935 consists of stores
at the mine. As a matter of fact, including only the
strictly liquid assets, the surplus may be set down at
about £26,000.
Broken Hill Block 14 made a profit of £12,758
in the half-year to March 31 ; but £1040 of this went to
wipe out amounts overdrawn on the previous six months’
output, and £3887 is absorbed by depreciation of plant
leaving £7631 net. But though the co. only made that
little profit, it paid away £36,000 in divs., besides the
preference shareholders’ 10 per cent, interest (£1500).
These preference shares, besides their 10 per cent. in.
terest, rank with the ordinaries for dividend. The pay.
ments, though large, left the co. in a very comfortable way
financially ; there was £65,420 of cash in hand on March
31, and (including stores, estimated surpluses, etc., as
liquid assets) the surplus on that . date was
£58,524. But the mine’s position isn’t as satis-
factory as those figures are. During the half,
year 13,762 tons of carbonates were mined and sold •
and the reserves of this rich lead ore in sight amount to
only 9000 tons. Certainly the sulphide mill has been
closed since about Christmas ; but it is pretty obvious
that, if the profit was only £12,758 gross, in spite of the
sale of 13,762 tons of carbonates, there must actually have
been a loss or thereabouts on the sulphides. This car-
bonate ore contained 4479 tons lead and I40,431oz.
silver ; that is to say, the ore was worth nearly 33 per
cant, lead and over lOoz. silver.
* * * *
Lying at the bottom of the trouble of the
Junction North is the fact that its ore is extremely hard
and tough. This hits the co. two ways—it puts up costs
and it prevents a decent extraction. For these reasons
the mine is in a worse position than almost any other on
the main line. Compare it with some others which,
having no smelters, are in the same class. First, as to
costs, taking the results of each co.’s last half-year (Block
10 to September, 1907): —
South. North. Block 10. June. N.
Mining .. 13/4'7 12/8 11/5-53 10/8'3
Milling .. 4/11-7 4/8 6/3.65 6/11.7
This doesn’t include development costs, which vary with
the state of the profit and loss account; when things are
booming the wise mining co. usually spends a lot of money
in getting ready for the duller days. Out of this com-
parison the Junction North comes fairly well, though the
milling costs are extremely high owing to the hardness
and toughness of the ore. Then as to ore values
Lead. Silver.
South 15-0 per cent. 5-4 oz.
North .. .. .. 16T0 ,, 6"05 „
Block 10 13"9 ,, 13’7 „
Junction North .. 14"4 „ 9-9 „
In Block 10’s case these figures have had to be calculated;
but they ought to be about accurate. Next as to the
recovery- of metals : —
Lead. Silver.
South .. .. 75T percent. 54-9 percent.
North .. .. 74-91 „ 52-75 „
Block 10.. .. 67-66 „ 36T6 „
Junction North.. 63-41 ,, 43’94 „
That represents the metal saved in the concentrates ; the
balance goes aside for possible re-treatment by-and-bye.
The metal actually recovered is, therefore
Lead. Silver.
South 11-26 per cent. 2-96 oz.
North 12-08 „ 319 „
Block 10 9-40 „ 4-95 „
Junction North 9 - 13 ,, 4'35 „
Lead at £13 per ton is worth 2s. 7 l-5d. per unit; and
silver is worth, say, 2s. per oz. Therefore the lead in the
South’s concentrate is w-orth 30s. Id. ; the silver, 5s. lid.;
total, 36s. In the Junction North the lead is worth 23s.
9d. ; the silver, 8s. 8d. ; total, 32s. 5d. The practical dif-
ference between the value of the ore in these two mines
is therefore 3s. 7d. per ton in favor of the South. True,
the Junction North shows a lower mining cost; but that
is probably due in part to the fact that the South’s ex-
penditure included Is. 5£d. per ton for filling depleted
stopes, which appears to have been on a considerably
larger scale than it has been at the Junction North during
the half-year. The South’s accounts closed also at
December 31 ; and labor costs have been gradually re-
duced since that date, on account of the lowering of con-
tract prices.
* * * *
From a mining engineer who knows his way
about“ The Great Cobar has the Alien Exclusion Act
strongly in force. Under no pretext whatever may
visitors be allowed below the brace. When consulting-
engineer Kendall visited the mine in December last for
the purpose of reporting on the reserves, he issued strict
injunctions that not only were no outsiders to be allowed
down the mine, but that a system of sampling and assay-
ing was to be introduced, so arranged that only the
manager and mine manager know the actual values of
any of the faces on the new bottom level (1000ft.). The
new shaft was sunk in country near the big central shoot
of ore ; but at a few feet below the 850ft. level this shaft
encountered a body of low-grade (0'5 per cent, to 1'2 per
cent, copper) ore of a highly siliceous character.
The shaft continued in this down to the 1000ft. level, and
that drive was carried in the same ore. Crosscutting for
the central shoot has met with disappointing results.
The central shoot, which on the 850ft. level was over
400ft. long and 52ft. wide, appears to have passed in
depth into low-grade siliceous ore. As the lodes are not true
fissure veins, but impregnation zones, it is to be expected
that the ore will become more siliceous in depth, ine
other two shoots are said to have opened up well, and to
have maintained their basic nature. But these two shoots
only represent about one-third of the total ore in sight.
Above the 850ft. level the ore averages 23 per cent, of
silica, and hence it is possible to smelt one ton of tne
siliceous Chesney mine ore with every three tons of Great
Cobar ore. If the central shoot has dropped in grade and
also become highly siliceous, it will not be possible t
smelt this ore, for there are no basic ores in the district.
All the mines on the line of lode, the Fort Bourke. t
Chesney, Occidental, etc., are highly siliceous in deptn.
“The ore reserves are officially stated at
tons for the Great Cobar, and 499,000 tons for the c b e8d
In regard to the former figure, it includes ore in tne cen-
tral shoot measured to 175ft. below the 850ft. level.
1000ft. level has not justified this assumption,nor a
at the time that the estimate was made. As the Chesney
ore can onlv be treated in conjunction with tne
basic Cobar ore, the reserves of that mine
available only so long as the Cobar ore: maintains itsJmuhc
nature. The new smelters are out of all proporto
the size of the mine. There are three units, togetn
with all necessary converters, reverberatones, and p
plant, each capable of an output of 600 t0 " 8 » da y ’ s
only two are kept in commission it means 36,000 to
the thirty-day month. The mine cannot maintain that
output. I expect that when the new plant startsupm
few weeks a big spurt will be made, but it will d
quickly. The mine cannot smelt ore from other mine^
for all the ore in the vicinity, except on the
C.S.A., is highly basic, and neither lime nor' 1 . ronst £" d
occurs within reasonable distance. The co. is
way, for £110,000 debentures must be redeemed this •
and’interest paid on £550,000 others. The , average «
covered is2-5 percent, copper, *oz. silver, an< * ft, a t
per ton (22401b.). Apologists for the management state
the attitude of the directors in prohibiting quail
tors from inspecting is due to an attack of n ( ,j he
quent on heavy ‘bearing’ some time back. • a(]( j
best way to help the ‘bears ’ is to dose the m on i y
allow every rumor-monger a free hand. This . c j u .
big mine in the Commonwealth that Pu rsu ® 8 gy„di
sion policy, characteristic of the wild-cat and boom >
cates methods.” ,
Developments at the True Blue, the show Pro
perty of Wyalong (N.S.W.), continue very satisfacio y


Hake
Your
& iu -
Ssr 1
«VtUt
be
ried
•
J
%
m
m
%
%
'■■a,
%
%
%
%
Appoint
PERPETUAL
// A'
-L
I
(LIMITED)'
ISERING ST,.SYPHP:
Fraser $ Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering,
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
A double 12in. suction dredge plant has just
been supplied to the Tekka Tin Mining Company of
Perak, Federated Malay States, by the Austral Otis
Engineering Company of South Melbourne. The plant
consists of two boilers, two 12in. gravel pumps, gravel
pump engine, air pump, surface condenser, feed pumps,
service pump, steam exhaust and other piping and
connections ; also Oregon barge and housing. The engine
is a marine type vertical coupled compound 350h.p.
The gravel pumps are both fixed on the same shaft, and
can be driven independently of each other. The boilers
are return tube dry back type. The barge is 50ft. x 45ft.
x 5ft., which gives ample room and sufficient floating
capacity.* [2
* * * *
The Scottish Critic, London, in its September,
1907, issue, comments upon the last annual report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, as
follows:—“The Society has a record of successful
business extending from 1873, and the position and
general prospect never were better than they are at the
present time.”*
* * * *
Cameron and Sutherland’s new catalogue, just
to hand, is the best thing of its kind that has been pub-
lished in Australia. There is hardly a line of machinery
and mining plant required for either copper, tin, gold,
coal, or indeed any class of mining, that is not illustrated,
described, and quoted in this issue. They are distributed
gratis, postage paid, and all mining managers will find it
to their advantage to secure a copy. The firm’s addresses
are: Post Office Chambers,, Sydney; Queen’s Bridge
Street, MelbourneLydiard Street, Ballarat; and Pall
Mall, Bendigo,*
• * • *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid!
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any:
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool;.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.”
* * * *
The King Screen has been remodelled and
important improvements effected for which new patents
are pending. We shall shortly be putting this essential
machine on the market. N. Guthridge Ltd., Sole Licensees
and Manufacturers.”
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay' balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* • ■* *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
« » • *
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply', a contract for which has been signed.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* •* * *
In connection with the visit of the American
Fleet, engineers will be interested to note that 16 of the
vessels, including all of the Class “A” battleships, are
fitted with water-tube boilers of the Babcock and Wilcox
make. This boiler is also being extensively adopted in
the Australian Mercantile Marine, two recent orders being
the S.S. Paringa, 1500 I.H.P., and S.S. Koombaba
4200 I.H.P., both for the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s inter-State.’
trade.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
C.ANBELEGO.— Mining speculators correspond
with Erie B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
With the advent of high-speed steel into the
engineering world has come a demand for more powerful
machine tools. To meet this, J. and P. Hill, of Sheffield,
have introduced a high-speed screw cutting lathe, which
has been specially designed to avoid complicated motions,
which may cause trouble, and to enable it to successfully
combat the severest strains. Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street,
Melbourne, have just landed one of these lathes, and those
interested in machine tools should not lose the oppor-
tunity of inspecting it.*
LOHMANN
(£1
COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating & Ice Maßing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing- Company and Victoria Breweries. Melbourne •
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining:, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [*.
At a depth of 1200 ft. levels have been run for a distance
sf over 200 ft. on a 3ft. lode channel carrying rich sul-
phide ore. The stopes show large reserves of ore.
Intrusions of granite occur at intervals ; occasionally a
shot is put into what looks like country rock, but which
turns out to be mainly solid mineral worth from lOoz to
15oz. gold per ton. For 500 ft. the lode varies in width
from oft. to a few inches. The new poppet heads at the
Brilliant shaft are 90ft. high, and contain 40 tons of
timber. The machinery is capable of working to a depth
of 4000 ft. The co.’s 25 head of stampers dispose of the low-
grade ore, while parcels averaging about 100 tons are sent
monthly to Cockle Creek. The monthly pay-sheet is
usually about £l7OO.
At the end of December last, this was the happy
financial position of the Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) • Cash
£226,468; bullion (not including gold in reserve)
£21,496; shares in other cos., £5930; sundry creditors]
£16,752 ; Oroya-Black Range loan account, £12,517 ; ex-
penditure on Central Boulder lease (to be recouped out of
gross profits on working), £5283; and stores, £11,931.
The co. had also a big wad of Oroya-Black Range shares,
but this asset is for some reason or other not shown on
the balance-sheet. Reckoning the co.’s debts at
£31,960, and ignoring its interest in the Oroya-Black Range
and its prospects of getting back what has already been
spent on the Central Boulder, the credit balance
on that date (exclusive of mine plant and “profit in
sight”) amounted to approximately £240,000, equal to
10s. per share. But whether shareholders will get this
amount, or whether it will be wasted on foreign wild-
cats, is another matter. The directors’ report for 1907
shows that £434,083 worth of bullion was won during the
year, and, after providing for costs, taxes, depreciation,
dividends (11s. 6d. per share), directors’ commission, etc.,
there remained a balance of £9OBB to carry forward to
1908. Some cheerful references, including 'the promise
of an early dividend, are made to the Orova-Black Range •
but beyond the significant statement that “ the difficulty
of formulating any estimates of ore reserves has become
greater,” and that “ the remnants of ore remaining in the
mine will afford profitable work during the year,” a
discreet silence is kept regarding the prospects of’the
Oroya-Brown Hill leases.
* * * *
Since the amalgamation of the Brown Hill and
Oroya cos., in 1902, dividends amounting to 70s. per
share, or over two millions sterling, have been paid.
Cash and liquid assets —exclusive of mine and equipment
—now total over £300,000, or more than the market price
of the stock. One asset not yet taken into account is the
accumulation of residues (about 800,000 tons) which
should yield a good profit when dealt with.
* * * *
From London: Oroya-Brown Hill meeting, held
in tms township the other day, was full of sensation.
It was said that the directors had taken in five years over
£60,000 in commissions apart from their fees, which were
£3500 a year ! G. P. Doolette was amazed that any share-
holder should cavil at paying the directors fairly for the
magnificent dividends they had distributed. Yes, but then
Doeilette didn’t help the Almighty to secrete the gold in the
Oroya-Brown Hill mine. Hoover, late of Bewick, Moreing
and Co., is going somewheres east of Suez, where the
best is like the worst, and there ain’t no Ten Command-
ments, and a man can raise athirst, ” to secure options on
which to plank the £300,000 reserve of the Oroya-Brown
Hill. Still, the Oroya isn’t alone in the matter of this
dividend-commission loot. The Great Boulder and several
other Kalgoorlie cos. pay a monstrous 5 per cent, on
profits to their guinea-hog directors. About 10 or 12 ex-
Australians draw £2OOO a year apiece in London this way.
The ore reserves of the Associated (W.A.) are
now estimated at 430,414 tons, containing 219,800 fine oz.
This is 100,000 tons more than was shown last year, with
the value about the same. The mine is opening up a little
better in depth, but values are still patchy, and the Board
is going to have a struggle to redeem its latest promise
to pay 3s. a year in dividends. Notwithstanding this
fact and that last year’s net profit only works out at
£70,000, minus London office expenses and a host of other
incidentals, the shares are still reckoned dirt cheap in the
West.
• * * a
At the slimes re-treatment plant on the Lake
View Consols (W.A.) about 200 tons are being handled
daily, and, starting from now, the profit from this source
should run out at £l5OO a month.
* * * «
Hannan’s Star Co. (W.A) is again asking for
exemption from labor conditions. In August last, when
this co. financed the reconstruction of the Boulder Deep
Levels, and arranged for the joint working of the two
mines, it looked as if a new leaf were being turned over ;
but, as only a little ore-rooting has been done in one
mine, and a short extension of a crosscut driven in the
other, it is obvious that it is the same old leaf after all.
The Bulletin said at the time that the Star directors did
not mean business with their own and the Deep Level
leases, and the fact that another application for exemp-
tion is now being made, on the old plea of work done,
money spent, and time to decide on and erect suitable
machinery, proves that the remark was justified. If the
co. wound up now, shareholders would get something ; but
unless there is prompt action, the chances are that there
will be nothing to divide. These facts speak for them-
selves : £172,000 of subscribed capital and £170,000 won
from ore treatment has been spent to date, and no divi-
dend has been paid ; and although there is still £40,000
worth of liquid assets in hand the shares are unsalable.
Whim Well Co. (W.A.) has sent away about
240 tons of copper ore, assaying from 22 to 25 percent.
Local papers have just become alive to the fact that the
mine is being gutted and that the end is not far off. The
Bulletin said this some months ago, but the remark was
pooh-poohed by the very people who are now jumping
over their own shadows in their eagerness to corroborate it.
The new find at Koolyonobbyn, near Southern
Cross (W.A.), boomed as something* prodigious a few
weeks ago, has now dwindled to a narrow shoot of gold
some 100 ft. odd in length on which scarcely a tap of work
has been done. Some of the VVestralian papers, however,
still rave about its richness ; but they are not so bad as
they were, which looks as if they are on the mend.
• • » *
It is cabled that £25,000 more working capital
can be raised to work the Tower Hill (W.A.), provided
the local tradespeople to whom the co. owes £5500 will
accept first-mortgage bonds, bearing 10 per cent, interest,
for five years in lieu of cash. As creditors on the spot
would probably get next to nothing if the co. liquidated,
this offer will no doubt be accepted, on the ground that
Hobson has to take what he can get.
* * * *
The Mararoa Co. (W.A.) has purchased another
10-head of the usual as-good-as-new stamps from a gone-
bung Coolgardie concern.
*■ * * ■*
North White Feather Co. (W.A.) claims to
have cut 4ft. of lOdwt. ore at 914 ft. This is the deepest
find yet made in the White Feather district, and if there
were any certainty of values being maintained, it would
rank as a good development. But, in that district, there
isn t any certainty.
* •» * *
Someone by the name of Crase has discovered a
reef in the Santa Claus, at Randalls (W.A.), which he
estimates will furnish a profit of £200,000 above the 75ft.
level. Anyone who doubts this assertion is invited to go
and see for himself; but as quite a number of people have
a ready gone to Randalls, and come back disappointed,
erase s invitation is likely to pass unnoticed—until he
* oll {f. sa . v . £20,000 worth of the gold on account.
A little gold was got near the surface in this locality, but
nothing favorable can be said of prospects at depth.
Nothing cheerful can be said about the London
and Western Australian Exploration 00. (W.A.). At the
recent meeting, chairman Moreing told J. Bull a doleful
tale about depreciation in securities, but predicted that
everything would come out right in the end. He
bracketed the Blythe River Iron, Block 10, Great Fitz-
roy, Zinc Corporation, Burmah mines, and Lancefield
mines as the co.’s best holdings ; but as some of these are
very lame ducks, it is difficult to account for his optimism.
In addition to the above interests, the co. has a big variety
of unsaleable stock ; and it really deserved better, be-
cause it has spent money freely on prospecting “shows ”
in all parts of the Commonwealth.
Ihe Colonial Consolidated Finance Co.’s luck
seems to be dead out. After allowing for depreciation
lr ; terests > etc., the 1907 accounts show a loss of
£7213 ; and of course there is no dividend. This concern
is interested in the Cosmopolitan, Bellevue, Hannan’s
Proprietary, and other mining derelicts in the West; but
in view of past losses the directors have decided that no
more money shall be invested in mining shares.
* * *
-The Flag Co., Phillips River (WiA.), is always
reporting developments which “augur w'ell for the
permanency of the mine” ; but, somehow, it is still small
and struggling. Either the small quantity of ore treated
to date has been picked and only rich assay results are
published, or capital is badly needed to lend a helping
hand in developing the mine.
* • * *
The Dreadnought, Menzies (W.A.), has been
floated, with a nominal capital of £5OOO, in 5000 £J.
shares. The public was asked to subscribe for 4750
shares; and as £3OOO cash goes to the vendors, the co.
will if all the shares have been taken up, start operations
with about £l5OO in hand. Of course, this amount is
absurdly insufficient to prove whether the mine is any-
thing beyond a one-horse show ; but those who bought
shares seem satisfied, and it is their funeral.
The report of the Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) for
1907 shows that, after allowing for £10,678 depreciation
and £7314 taxes, the year’s working realised a profit of
£61,967. Out of this, together with the balance brought
forward from 1906, four dividends absorbing £65,000 were
paid, and there was £4117 to be carried forward. When
the accounts were made up, the co. had a surplus of about
£25,000 ; but a little has been added since then.
* * * *
Gwalia Consolidated, Wiluna (W.A.), is still
being puffed, and in another estimate of ore reserves it is
put forward that the stuff averages nearly twice as much
gold as the mill has been recovering. Good profits are
again promised ; but with the past record as a guide the
public is a bit shy, and the task of “ getting them in ” is
likely to prove much harder than those who are trying
to boom the mine seem to expect. The fact that a lot
of money has already been frittered away, and that,
although much ore has been crushed, no dividend has
been paid, tells against the property.
* . * .
The Mt. Morgan (Q.) people, besides looking to
their own coal supplies, are reported to be reaching still
further. It is confidently stated in Brisbane, by some
who think they know, that the completion of the Boyne
Valley Railway will be followed by the absorption of both
Glassford Greek and Mt. Hector by the big co. It would
not be surprising to see Glassford going that way ; but
the sanguine and energetic directorate of the Mt. Hector
Co. would, in all probability, open its mouth a bit too
wide. This latter co., by the way, has lost no time in.
making a start with the erection of its water-jacket.
* * * *
Shareholders frequently have cause of complaint
in the meagreness of reports from far-away mines. Too
often they have to be content with such bare statements
as “ ore of the usual good quality is being mined,” and
“developments continue satisfactory.” It is so easy to
find code words for this information. Similarly, metal-
lurgical reports are often unsatisfactory and vague.
Here is a report from Mt. Chalmers : “ 2225 tons of ore
for 87 tons copper, wffiich includes the product of 76 tons
of low-grade matte returned for concentration.” What
information does this give? Very handy stuff, this
matte. Compare that with the metallurgical balance-
sheet issued by the Queensland Exploration Co., Clon-
curry, for March (the totals closely correspond with those
for April):—Smelted (including 32 tons limestone),
378 tons ; assay, 16 per cent. Produced—matte, 69J tons;
assay, 72J per cent. =5O tons 7 cwt. copper; also slag,.
230 tons; assay, 1.7 per cent. =3 tons 18 cwt; un-
accounted for, 2 tons 1 cwt. There you have everything-
But, then, Mt. Chalmers is not smelting 16 per cent, ore-
• * * •
According to the report prepared for the general
meeting of the New Anniversary Copper Syndicate, Her-
berton (Q.), the present stoppage is not due to any falling
off in the look of the property. In fact, “at no time
have the faces looked better.” There is no doubt about
the show being a good one, although shares have had a
considerable drop during the past few months, the
original £lO shares coming down from £35 to somewhere
near £2O. The present face of ore is nearly 6ft wide, and
averages 12 per cent, copper. The result of last year’s
operations was 600 tons of ore, said to assay 14 per cent,
copper and 7oz. silver, of which all but 100 tons was sold
on an average market of £65. The freight to Chillagoe,
where most of it went, is £2 a ton ; and, allowing for the
usual smelting costs, the return would pan out about
£2 15s. per ton of ore. From this mining costs would
have to be paid. The report, unfortunately, does not go
into costs. Out of the profits the 75 syndicators have
collected three dividends of £1 each. If everything
financial is all right, as it should be, the present closing-
down is quite a refreshing act of wisdom on the part of
the directors, though the regrettable thing in all such
cases is that the workmen are thrown out of a job.
• • • *
Vulcan tin (N.Q.) continues very sick: pretty
well everything depends now upon striking something in
tbe bottom crosscut. In the upper workings there is very
little good ore in sight. On present appearances southern
punters never fell in worse over anything than over
Vulcan. It was just about the top of the tin boom when
the southerners started to nose round. Old John Moffat
and the rest of the big local holders were such an innocent-
looking lot: they really hadn’t any idea what they had
got hold of ! The southerners smacked their lips : these
northern innocents were such easy game. The northern
innocents played the part splendidly ; they even agreed
to cut the shares up just to oblige. At the end
of 1905 there were 44,000 shares worth about £4
a-piece. Within six months they had been split into'
sixes, and were 50 per cent, still higher—equal to about £1
for the split shares. Then, when the south had relieved
the guileless northern men of their shares, at a price
which gave the show a capital value of about £250,000,
something went wrong. The guileless north said it was
the firewood supply. While tin boomed, the co. cer-
tainly paid £13,000 or so a half-year ; but it was over-
looked that, even under better than average conditions, the
mine had previously only paid £4400 a half-year, while for
the 11 years from 1890 to 1901 the dividends had averaged
just under £5OOO a year (£54,413 for the whole period).
Those quiet men of the north have lots of time to think,
and they thought over these things. And now the
southerners who relieved the guileless north of its shares
have time to think too. They were invited to do it 18
months but they weren’t taking any advice just then.
Shipments of ore from Mungana (N.Q.) have
increased to about 1000 tons a week. The great bulk of
the output is rather low-grade lead sulphide, and it is a
struggle to make it pay mining and smelting costs at
P r ® i ? en t- Certainly the exact smelting costs of such ore
in North Queensland are a mystery. If the management
can show a profit on crude ore of an average value of £4
or £5, it deserves credit, considering that Broken Hill is
girding at a smelter’s returning charge of 90s. Roughly,
Mungana’s output for 12 months was worth £87,000, and
for a mine shipping some hundreds of tons a week that
isntmuch. Of course there are rich assays, but these
good patches are due to mere secondary enrichment.
Exactly why a rich assay is wired south, while the bulk
value as disclosed at the smelter remains so low, can only
be guessed. What does it matter if some of the ore
assays up to £2O if the bulk value of 1000 tons is only £4
or £5 a ton ?
Charters Towers Stock Exchange is having a
feast after a famine ; 70,000 shares were sold last week.
In April 17,463 tons gave £55,057 ; calls were £2250, and
dividends nil, so the Towers boom is all anticipatory.
Certainly the main Day Dawn reef is stretching out 200 ft.
eastwards through the New Brilliant Freehold. It is
sometimes sft. wide, with a footwall that cuts through a
dionte bar without getting displaced. This reef is an
extension of Mills’ United No. 7, and is about 60ft. from
the East Mexican’s northern boundary. The E. Mexican
Co. is asking to be allowed to drive No. 5 from Mills’
United side into its own ground ; but the end of the level
is nothing to boast about. Mills’ United No. 8 level is
also of interest just now. It is near the N. B. Freehold
boundary, but on poor stone. Mills’ No. 6 hanging-wall
level is on medium stone near the boundary. Speculators
are going on the chance that these levels will improve as
No. 7 has done when driven on into the Freehold ground.
At present the N. B. Freehold stone has to be hauled up
Mills’ United shaft. The stone is cleaner than the first
lot. Queen Cross has struck a likely-looking formation
below 1950 ft. The rock got softer and the market
jumped, knowing what a rich zone Queen Cross has
proved. But so far it is entirely a gamble.
* * * *
Chalk’s No. 3, Maryborough (Vic.), is the one
big mine left in the district of the famous Chalk’s group.
Next door is the Charlotte Plains, one of the deplorable
“Britishers” whence yields come, but too poor to pay.
Chalk's 3, higher up the lead, got life through a grant of
£5OOO from the Bent Government. Later on £4OOO of
that was paid back, alternately with 6d. divs. Now the
co. is £1045 in debt, and has only' patchy wash to operate
on. It is the story of the spendthrift. When the co.
was on the gold the State loan should have been paid off,
and the balance husbanded. But everything must go to
give a div. or two. Now it is calls, calls. No 1 shaft is
shut down, and No. 2 plant drains the lead and keeps
the mine going. This on lOdwt. dirt is just possible, pro-
vided nothing goes wrong. A poor total the co. shows—
gold won, £182,000 ; capital paid up, £78,333 ; dividends,
£2500. What wonder shareholders shudder 1
* * * *
Band and Loch, Ballarat, is abandoned by its
big Melbourne supporters ; so Ballarat goes to the rescue,
Sewell, of the Star of the East, carrying the bulk of the
load. The co. is £5OOO in debt to the bank, and requires
nourishment from outside ; and the chances of getting it
are about as rosy as Willie Knox’s are of getting G. Reid
to hand over the leadership to him. Band and Loch
wants gold ; next, it wants its shaft put down ; after that,
it wants really solid backing in Ballarat. If it can’t get the
shaft put down, the dirt now being got will never pay.
That is the problem Sewell has to tackle.
• • • *
Star of the West, Kevington (Vic.), is a mine
that hit rich stone, paid a few divs., and now talks about
State aid to help it to sink a shaft. What more
ridiculous! “ Geology ” Dunn tells the co. that it
ought to concentrate its efforts on sinking the shaft
to reach stone under the break in No. 3 tunnel.
Yet the co. is groping about in the upper levels like a dog
in a crowd. It has gone back for months, and with its
retrogression the hope of Jamieson to vie with Gaffney’s
Creek as a mining centre expires. All the other pot-holes
in the district—Star of the West Extended, Blue Ribbon,
Red Ribbon—are in the same plight. Calls and no gold
to speak of. The shoots are too short to make men rich.
» * * •
“ Blisterer ”: The remarks of “Blister”
(B. 16/4/’O3) will be appreciated by all who have anything
to do with the Geological Branch of the Vic. Mines
Department. Professor Gregory certainly did institute
some good reforms (e.g., examinations for promotion),
and whilst he was there he vitalised the whole staff with
some of his own energy ; he made each member feel that
good work would be recognised, as far as recognition was
possible in a department whose ruling is that the most
skilled geologist, mining engineer, or metallurgist is (with
the exception of the director) not worth more than about
£4 per week. The Department is too fond of spending time
and public money on exact and detailed geological survey
of the surface which anyone at any time can see. It has
almost completely ignored underground mine workings,
which are soon covered with filling, or timber, or water
for ever. Its idea seems to be that because mines are.
run for profit, science should not be defiled by being made
thestaff of the money-hunter. The Geological Branch of the
Mines Department always was, and is, oblivious of the fact
that its only justification for existence is the help it gives,
or should give, the mining industry. It should put the
rule-of-thumb, £3 10s. per week, Victorian minemanager-
cum-surveyor-eum-assayer-cum-accountant on the track
of something profitable, and it should put the unfortunate
Victorian shareholder (who pays £7 for every ounce of
gold he mines) on his guard against those “ legal ” and
mine managers and directors, who keep mines going by
calls for the sake of their jobs and their fees. The
Department should point out the fallacy of sinking
to great depths to get into “settled country”
in order to get “good gold” (worth only £4 per oz.) ;
it should stop the aimless “ crosscutting to centre-
country ” to find “ auriferous reefs ” which are certain
(because they are in centre-country) to give “ a handsome
return for the investment of capital,” irrespective of
whether the mine is at Bendigo or along the Indicator
belt of Ballarat East. These are the things it should do.
On the other hand, it should not waste its time collecting
rocks, and specimens, and statistics of gold yields merely
for The Bent Three to lecture about and show to the
British exhibition-trotter, because not one of the three
knows anything about the business. It should not en-
courage, by Government grants, small parties and
companies to spend time, energy and money on the wild-
cat prospecting of little quartz stringers, which never
could make a mine worth a song to themselves or the
community. The Department wants higher pay and a
few officers who have had the actual running of mines
in Victoria and elsewhere, and it shouldn’t try to bolster
up every show, whether it has a hope or not.
* * * *
Fosterville goldfield, near Bendigo (Vic.), which
has been slowly dying for the last two or three years, has
at last flickered out. On May 6 what was left of it was
broken up in small pieces and taken away, an auction
sale being held of the Fosterville and the Thomas cos.’
engines, batteries, and other portable property. A lot of
money has been dropped on this field at one time and
another; the Government also dropped a fair amount
down a big exploring shaft. Nearly a dozen private cos.
had large plants there at one time, but they have all dis-
appeared. Fosterville was named after Henry Foster,
George Turner’s Minister of Mines, and in its palmiest
days had over 2000 residents.
• * • *
Tin-dredging in Tasmania isn’t the industry it
was cracked up to be. Three plants are at work. Of these
the Gladstone is pioneering somewhere, and with its in-
and-out returns the work is not covering exes. Ringa-
rooma dredge, near the South Mt. Cameron, has hit
better tin ; but as everyone now knows how streaky tin-
drift is, it would take a sheaf of divs. to make a market.
Dorset dredge has been more consistent, but no one is
quite sure whether month by month its exes, are not more
than its returns. Some day a shareholder will come out
with a club and demand these details. When that hap-
pens, cheaper management will ensue. Anyway, with
tin falling £5 and recovering only £3, there isn’t much
bread-and-butter for either directors or brokers in any
of the old-time tin boomers.
* * * *
R. and J. Dick, the well-known Balata belting
people, of Glasgow, have put their business into a
limited company, with a capital of £650,000. The sole
agency for this firm for N.S.W. is now held by James
Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney.
« « » .
“Coot”: The closing down of the smelters at
Zeehan (Tas.) may be an attempt on the part of the co.
to coerce the Government into granting the £20,000
asked for, and indirectly to discourage the erection of
smelters by the Tasmanian Copper Co., at Rosebery.
The sulphide ores at Mt. Reid and Rosebery do not con-
tain sutficient lead to admit of successful treatment by
themselves; hence the Tas. Copper Co. would become
competitors for the lead ores of the Zeehan district, and
Private Enterprise hates competition. Should the Gov-
ernment grant the cheeky request of the Smelting 00.,
there is no earthly reason why needy mining cos., or
needy works and factories of other sorts, should not be
treated in the same way, and other demands are certain
to be made upon the Treasury.


W All Commercial,
" General Educa-
tional & Technical
Subjects, and WE COACH BY
POST for ALL EXAMINATIONS.
Successful & satisfied students
all over the Commonwealth
are our best advertisements.
STOTT & HOAFCE’S
Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.
“ Home Study,”
post free.
The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridve Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for your
special needs.*
The Store for Men!
SMART SAC SUITS —beautifully Tailored to your order— so/-, 55/-, 60/-, 70/-, 75/->
85/- to 105/-. Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent rost rree
immediately on application. ... -m/ in
OVERCOATS—Finest English Tailored—handsome and exclusive m designs—-
85/- each Underclothing Shirts, Collars, Ties, Hats Caps, Boots and Shoes.
Clerical, Academical, Military Uniforms, Fancy Dress,
Lincoln Stuart & Co . Pty., Ltd.
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Janor ” : “ Cict’s ” information re wom-
bats (B. 23/4/’08) has not been drawn from reliable
sources, and I’m open to bet him a new cady that
never was a tail-race undermined by one of the
tribe. The wombat has an antipathy to water (it
is doubtful if he ever drinks), and at no price will
he select on moist ground. Hence his burrow is
at a high elevation on the spurs. As to under-
mining head-races, I only know of one such
happening in half-a-century’s mining experience.
Also, “ Cict ” is wrong when he describes the pig-
like animal as a great digger. He’s nothing of
the kind. He does not dig for pleasure, or amuse-
ment, or gold, or any other old thing, but for a
home only, and when he has dug that out at the
beginning of his career, his digging stops right
there. It is only the caving-in of his burrow, or
the inroad of surface moisture thereto, that starts
him shifting gravel once more, and even then he
makes strenuous efforts to patch up the old home
before excavating a new one. A lazy beast he is,
dividing his time between eating and sleeping.
And the wombat is the easiest bush animal to
trap, though a rabbit-trap is not the ironmongery
to do the trick with.
“ Cict ” : Re recent comment on the fact
that a horse, when once it has selected a death-
site, will persist in becoming extinct on that site
and that only, I would like to mention that this is
far from being the most exasperating of the
animal’s traits, when moribund. With absolutely
damnable cussedness it insists on becoming
deceased immediately adjacent to human habi-
tation. Have known an equine to be con-
ducted miles away expressly for death-purposes,
and the next morning its defunct remains to be
discovered piled against its owner’s back-door.
Should no one reside near the place wherein it is
taken mortally ill, the ordinary moke will ramble
over to the most be-travelled track in the parish,
and slip its spirit there.
* * * *
It was up in the mountainous Gippsland
country, getting towards Grant, and the Mel-
bourne sports on a walking tour had called up
Bain from his poddy calves to ask the way to
Condamine. Bain explained in a leisurely way.
He was chewing at the time, and explanation was
difficult. “’Tain’t no distance worth mentionin’
to Condamine,” he said. “Not more’n a matter
o’ twenty mile.” “ Could it be made less?” “ Oh,
yes, five mile can be knocked off by the short cut.
Along to the spur.” He pointed out the spur.
Bain seemed half disposed to say something more,
but he was so long about it, and the strain was so
great, that the pedestrians resumed their journey,
and left him ruminating. Two hours later,
near the spur, the wayfarers met a man
with a shovel, and asked him if that
was the near cut to Condamine. The man with
the shovel admitted it Was. “But it ain’t used
gen’ally,” he said disinterestedly. “Why not?
Doesn’t it save five mile?” “Oh, ya-as, but it
ain’t used gen’ally.” “Why not?” reiterated the
stoutest pedestrian with some impatience. “ Well,
maybe coz t’ save that five mile yiv gotter fall a
matter iv a mile.” The pedestrians took the long
way round, now eight miles longer, cursing the
loquacity of these Outback Australians.
“ Eiddal ” (from Northern Victoria):
My bowels of compassion are racked daily
where’er I go Up North at the number of starving
kine waiting for rain to bring sustenance in grass,
with a lingering death apparently in view in spite
of the weather prophets’ predictions. If the star-
vation state of affairs was general all along the
roads, maybe I might be more callous. But about
one cocky in ten has been thriftful enough to save
his hay and straw stacks in case of famine, so the
thrifty one’s kine get a life-sustaining, warmth-
giving dole, while in the paddocks adjacent the
starving kine of the unwise cocky who had no oil
in his lamp stand against the fences eyeing the
stacks of Tantalus, chewing a ghostly cud, and
with the gnawing pangs of hunger within their
baggy hides. Cocky is a poor scholar. He
learnt nothing from the lessons of the last
drought. The fair crops of 190 G were ruth-
lessly stripped for cheapness. The stubble
was burnt off—with such indecent haste in
some instances that the Law was invoked for
“ burning off” out of season. When cocky had a
stack or two, he cut it into chaff and sold it at
355. a ton, so eager was he for the lucre. Now he
can’t buy for £6 10s. a ton chaff half as good as
that he sacrificed. When this dry spell passes—
if it ever does—there will be an unholy squaring-
up of accounts throughout oockiedom. Some
cookies have mortgaged their souls as well as their
bits of dust to keep their live assets breathing,
and, after all their solicitude and soul-racking
expense, there are carcases to be skinned and
burnt, and the smell of the burning goes up to
Heaven.
THE ONLY THING LEFT.
A Sydney scientist declares that the habit of drinking
methylated spirits has shown a marKed increase of late,
with disastrous results to the drinkers. —Delirium Tele-
graph, April 20.
Young women in their teens take it without shame
—drink whisky, quench their thirst again and again
with the best champagne—do it until the cheeks
grow red and the eyes grow bright, and, perchance, be-
fore the evening is spent, the feet grow unsteady.—Rev.
Howell Price.
"And now, Bill, may I arsis ’oo is ter blame?
Why, the young women of Australia! Wot
wi' their guzzlin' o’ champagne an the like,
they'd drink the blessed country dry ef it
wer’n't for good ole Mcth.”
Dear Bulletin, —I have been waiting
patiently for months to see if any of your con-
tributors would submit to your notice a really
dead town, but, so far as I can gather from their
letters, the towns they nominate for the “ dead
town ” competition are not dead at all—merely
sick or dying. Wherefore I arise and sanguinely:
push forward the following. It is about 200 miles
south of Sydney. It has seven houses. In
summer it is a dust-storm in urbane form ; in
winter a rural blizzard. The nearest river is a
creek, which in hot weather isn’t even that, but a
series of waterholes. However, enough—your
accountant has my address for prize-forwarding
purposes. My unbeatable entry is C —nb—rr—.
Yours, etc., Araimo.
NOT A HORSE, NOR YET A COW.
YOUNG SELECTOR : “ Better have me, Liz, Eve got a good crop of oats this year."
LIZ (with scorn): “ I don't eat oats."
“The Prooshan” : The record for 100yds.
in gum-boots was secured some years ago by a
German sluicer on the Adelong Creek. But I
shall let old Hanover tell the tale himself
I vos vorking vit Pob Krady und Pilly Yillianis on der
Ardlong Creek, und it vos ’poudt tinner dime, unt Pob
said: ‘‘Petter you go oop unt durn orf some vorter.”
Yell, I goes me oop, unt ven I led orf some vorter a vile I
see von young diger snake, unt I made von pig schlab ad
heem Und miss, unt by Shimminv dot leedle diger snake
try to run bimself dot shufel handle oop ad me unt pite.
Veil, I killed him again mit anoder grack, you pet, bud,
Holy for Ghost, his farder snake, vot I not see lyink dare
pefore, yoomped ad me as vild as de Defil, und I trop dot
shufel und cleer for my life, und ven I looks pack, py
kracious, he vos ride at mine heels all de vav. It vos
town hill und voost suit dot diger snake, but dose
gum-boots day nod suit my foodsteps, vod ? Preddy
soon I come to von teep shannel for de vorter, unt ge,
vollop ! I yoomps id like a teer unt sit me on von pig log
on der Oder side, unt for den dousand pound could I not
move me von ting in mine pody, I vas dot bar dize mit
vright. Dod snake could ead me ven he like, but he stop
down in dot shannel for der vorter dill Pilly Villiams
come mit a shufel unt kill him. Nefer run away mit dose
gum-poots down hill from dose diger snakes, dey can
shase you like letter (leather) for hell, by shimminy !
* * * *
“ Biverina ” : As the worship of Horse
reaches its highest pinnacle of fervor in Australia,
naturally the horse-shoe is regarded as an emblem
of luck in the bush. You can generally see one
nailed on the door of the travellers’ hut, and the
station hut, and often on the wayside pub door.
Once saw a curious little incident which
arose from this superstition. Our old friends,
Bill and Jim, were plodding along a ’Bidgee
river track, with Bill —as is the custom—a few
paces in front. From the dust he picked up
a large horseshoe, carried it along awhile—
apparently muttering an invocation —spat on
it hard, and then threw it violently over his
left shoulder. It landed on his mate’s face.
“Gorstruth!” howled James, “ wot’d yer
pelt that blanky thing for?” “Ferluck!”
said Bill, without looking round, and he
plugged steadily towards the sundown. I
learnt later on that if you look back after
throwing the shoe the spell is broken, and
you won’t get the £lOOO a year, or the pub,
or whatever you happen to wish for.
* » * *
“Bunny”: Broken Hill has now to
beware of bunny. Many of the rabbits offered for
sale in the Silver City are caught on the common
at Silverton, where phosphorus has been laid by
the trustees for rabbit destruction. By the way,
the method of discovering whether a rabbit has
partaken of phosphorus is quite simple. Let the
kidneys be taken into a dark room and they will
show a glow if poison is present. If the rabbit’s
carcase be placed in water, the odor that arises
will give evidence for or against phosphorus
poisoning. There is no mistaking the phosphoric
smell. It will be a happy day for Australia when
the poison-cart is made into scrap-iron. It has
been a curse to the community in many ways.
“David H. Richards”: I have often
noticed what very excellent farmers Danes are.
If it were possible to raise traction-engines from
the soil, the Danish farmer would have a vigorous,
healthy crop of that machinery waving its foliage
on his plantation. His farm is always a model of
neatness and perfection, and the eternal envy of
adjacent earth-tillers. Probably the talent is
hereditary, for I talked to a Danish person the
other day, and this is what he remarked, as lie
caressed the handle of the plough : “ Mine farder,
he rear 15 jildren on the 85 acre of landt in teoldt
countrv, andt we all haf plenty to do andt plenty
to eat. He haf pigs, and cows, and fowls for te
eggs ; and now ve vas all of us marriedt, and lie
haf te farm to imself, andt be what you call quite
te squatter in dis coundry. 1 laff when 1 see
aboudt twendty men on three hundred thousand
acres like te pig station, or hear te farmer sav,
‘ Poor feller, only got two or three hundred acies
for cane or wheat.’ I laff.” That is the type of
agricultural settler Australia wants, and can get,
too, when it once falls upon the owner of 300,000
acres with a heavy graduated land tax.
THE ONLY WAY.
HORACE (just out from Hinyland, adrised to seck
work in the country)! "Say. fellah, [?] you
tell me the quwkest way to the shering
sheds?"
BOGAN BILL: "Just, run as’ard as y'r can along
this roul f'r another five mile, on then take
th' wire fence to th' right f' r three mile, [?]
In th left, swim th' biltabony. then foller the
first sheep truck y'r come to. on' y'rll to
there before sunset."
KAVA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Piper methysticum,
A pepper plant, has some
Peculiar pull secreted in its fibres,
Some ichor in its veins
Which, when distilled, enchains,
Enduringly, the fancy of imbibers.
Keen Kava, then, I sing,
The draught that is the thing
Where once upon a time “ long-pig ” was eaten ;
Spelled Ava, it may be,
(Yangona, in Fiji)
But always it is pepper-root, well-beaten.
Plus water, added by
A skilful hand and eye,
Long trained exactly quantum suff. to measure.
’Tis simple, but it is
The Island Johnnie’s “ fizz,”
By far his most-regarded liquid pleasure.
It isn’t nice at first,
And quite a tearing thirst
Is needful ere a neophyte can swallow
His portion of the brew
Without a face or two,
Or with a wish for any more to follow.
For, “ Ugh, it tastes of soap ! ”
He splutters, as the dope
Goes trickling through his disapproving throttle,
“ I positively think
That no more acrid drink
Was ever poured from barrel, bowl, or bottle 1 ”
In fact, like caviare,
Its foreign flavors are
Ungrateful to the ordinary being ;
But every drinker knows
How fast the pleasure grows,
How soon he and his liquor are agreeing.
It satisfies and cheers,
Like foam of many beers,
But never brings about inebriation ;
Intemperance in “ pegs,”
’Tis true, affects the legs,
Though not the happy toper’s cerebration.
So well may folk extol
The flowing kava-bowl;
Thanks to its innutrition of hot passion,
When brother who is brown
Sets out to “ paint the town,”
He does it in a gentlemanly fashion.
O, juice beyond compare j
No vintage rich or rare
From fertile France, or Rhine’s be-castled ridges,
Assays an equal joy
Without that base alloy,
A vertigo which festive rite abridges.
And penned in Sydney, here,
Where stimulants are dear,
And milk is priced too high and going higher,
While summer’s ardent glow
Makes water cease to flow,
And all the land, and I, are daily drier,
Fain would I pack my swag
(Or, rather, Gladstone bag,
Which holds a lot, but isn’t much to carry),
And sample straight away
The South Sea’s sparkling spray,
With pepper-essence Bacchanals to tarry.
To loaf with them, and love
The cocoanut above
The pungent root helow our place of basking ;
Two precious drinks these bear,
And both are free as air,
One takes them, or one gets them for the asking.
And men may come and go,
And wander to and fro,
A-tracing all the globe with divagations,
While never finding out
A cheaper way to “ shout”
And gratify their social inclinations.
Piper methysticum,
Unharming head or turn,
Long may you oust the potions of the stranger !
The white man’s poison-sprees
Scathe not your devotees,
But those who quit you travel into danger.
N.S.W.
*
TALAFEKAU.


TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets,
emist refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
OVE b signature is on each box. Is. ljd.
A LARGE DIAMOND.
The finest Blue-White Jagersfontein Diamond that ever came to
Australia, we are showing jus^l^iow.
It weighs 10 carats, and the price is £l5OO.
We are showing also a number of other flawless and perfect Steel-
White Diamonds —such jewels as are very rare, even in London.
SEE THEM—they are an education.
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
10-ct. perfect
Japersfontein Blue-
White Diamond,
£l5OO.
23 HUNTER
STREET.
Significant of other things than the way
trout-fishing is booming on Monaro streams were
the joyous references to the dry-fl v fishing possi-
bilities of the Goodrabidgee, at a recent crowded
meeting of the Rod Fishers’ Society. The
dry-fly angler is the scientist of the fishing game.
You do not find him except in countries where
rod-fishing has become an institution. The Dove,
Isaak Walton’s stream, is his main resort in the
United Kingdom ; but rod-fishermen who know
consider the Goodrabidgee another Doye,
and a better one than the original.
The Snowy, which, with its huge volume
of water, surges and spumes along like a Nor-
wegian river, demands little skill on the part of the
angler. A wet fly dashed anyhow into the aver-
age Snowy “ripple” means a trout-rise. But in
the smaller Goodrabidgee, with its deep, still
pools, the fish are shyer. Here the sportsman
needs to dry his fly with care, and cast skilfully.
Both sorts of fishing attract increasing crowds,
and the circumstance is having a national effect in
its own small way. The fly fisherman is never a
genuine State-Frighter. Allured to the capital-
site district by its sporting possibilities in the first
instance, he is rapidly transformed into a schis-
matic brand of anti-Federalist, who is against the
Commonwealth in most things, but promulgates
broadcast a heresy that the accursed Australian
Parliament has somehow blundered on to the right
place in its selection for an Australian capital.
IT WAS HIS STRONG POINT.
CROWS SOLICITOR : “Do you know what an oath
is?"
PRISONER : “I reckon I do, guv'nor. Ask yer
pal the John there!”
“ Pick,” his lie :
„ ou filers talk of strong-grog-,’’said teamster Dan.
hy, when they were a-buildingof the Cooma line the
Bn ' e * o feh e stuff sold in the shanties was stronger and more
W °l eson >e than the taste is in these days. Remember
or >ce on Colinton Flats, searching three weeks for my old
Po er, Rattler. Found him at last, doddering about in
e old bar-room of a shanty that had been abandoned
or six months, just getting off the d.t.’s from sniffing
o U f C 0 the old whisky bottles. Never got any good
everva lm a fe erwar ds. Always wanting to pull off at
la>n i . ne< l P u b on the line. He starved to death at
ea ning up against the signpost of the Travellers’
Wa ‘ . Reckoned when my best bullock took to booze it
caiwou 6 u me t 0 s °ber up, and that determination
shint- T h a slump in the drink traffic that half the
un ' es .between Gungoandra and Jews’ Flat had to shut
it’» fk ere made out of old Rattler’s hide, and
whiat of stu ff I ever used. Reckon it was the
ot th y cur ? < l the hide so well. You can get a whiff
Won 6 stagger-juice still every time the whip cracks.
w eu, so long, chaps.”
ANOTHER KIND OF TIMBER.
VISITOR: “ I suppose this is virgin forest?”
DRIVER: "No, sorr! Thot's mostly blackwood! ”
In the very zenith of its ill-repute, a Bris-
bane chemist bobs up to say that the prickly pear
is a blessing to man. Among the virtues he claims
for the defamed vegetable are juices that may be
distilled into excellent whisky, waste fibres that
will feed cattle, and sugar equal to that of John-
stone River cane. This attempted rehabilitation
of the obnoxious prickly yields ground for surmis-
ing that some studious man may yet discover poli-
tical virtue in a Ma State-fright.
*****
“ D.H.R.” : With the last sixpence I had
in the world I bought The Bulletin of 12/3/’OB,
and read about the dog that acted as “ boundary-
keeper,” near the Upper Clutha Gorge (M.L.).
I once released a prisoner
from a similar Gehenna, and
there was a sequel. I was
steering a mob of sheep
through the Pilliga scrub
(N.S. W.), and came upon
the dog one broiling day at
noon. He did such marvel-
lous contortionist feats, and
uttered such weird sounds—
like Paganini expressing an-
guish on a Strad—that at first
I imagined him in the last
stages of frothing insanity ;
but presently I saw an old
pan as dry as the Sahara
near him. Then I sized up
the situation, and emptied
my water-bag into the dish.
Afterwards, at lunch-time, I
fed him, and the way he
asked for a second edition
beat Oliver Twist. As I was
moving out, the look of hope-
less despair in the dog’s eyes
overcame my Sunday-school
scruples, and I released him.
Hardly, had I done so, when
the large, hairy, pugilistic
manager of the station fell
off a horse, and with the voice
of the giants in the fairy
stories asked what
right I had to interfere with
his animal; and as I was
slow in replying, he com-
menced to whirl his arms
about. Not being much good
at thumping, I was blocking
them all in the good old-
fashioned way with my facial
expression, and the day was
going sadly against me, when
Blucher arrived on four legs,
and attacked my assailant in
the rear part with such en-
thusiasm that he at once com-
menced to practise high
jumping. But the dog hung
on, till eventually the man
threw himself on to his horse and cursed me from
that safe position. That dog and I are cronies
yet, and for his sake I move that an Act be passed
to obliterate people who fasten dogs to scenery.
“Janor”: Herewith the tale of an en-
tombed Wesleyan Cousin-Jack miner, recalled by
“E. D.” (B. 23/4/08). When the inrush of water
came, all hands got out but Polkinghorne. It took
three days to dry the shaft, which sorrowful
interval was not spent, however, in prayers for the
deceased’s spiritual salving. Methodies, in common
with Nonconformists generally, abhor the idea
of praying for the new-made cadaver’s soul
Polkinghorne’s friends put their cash into pre-
parations for a gorgeous funeral. Thus, on the
evening of the third day, when the entombed,
mercifully preserved from death, tottered damply
out of the cage, he was confronted by a handsome
coffin on which his name and age were blazoned.
Bolky was annoyed and kicked the corpse-box
irritably, so that it rattled dismally and emitted
hollow noises. His amazed wife and children, tear-
stained and in brand-new mourning, rushed joy-
fully at him. “Damme!” he roared, “what be
this’ere fuss for? Come ’long whoam, Jenny,
lass. I be worth a stope-full er stiffuns, praise
God!” And so he departed. He was never re-
garded with much favor by co-religionists after-
wards ; and whenever a local prodigal returned
from a trip to Babylon by the ’Arbor, and told
tales of shameless confidence business, whereby
the unrighteous became enriched at the expense
of the unworldly, there was an embarrassed
shuffling of bluchers, and the company looked
straight at Polky, who should be dead, but wasn’t.
THE BARRACOOTA BUNCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A golden stream of melody falls softly down the wind •
A thrush recalls a crowd of pleasant happenings to mind
And mentions them, perched low upon the solitary gum '
That blooms across the way. Far trains, with mellowed
thunder, come
Along the silent miles and murmur musically down
Behind the gardened hill, to take suburbanites to town.
Too sweet to last! Too soon our peace is slain by men
that cry
Dead fish—the Barracouta Bunch comes rudely marching
The Barracouta Bunch is grey with barracouta-scales ;
The Barracouta Bunch’s change is small, and never fails
In oily odors of old fish. Its conversation is
A brutal bellowing about a loud and brutal biz.
And gentle morning breezes, once well-found in bushy
scents,
Now come to us assoiled with smells from where the
barrow-gents—
That bunch of odor-experts !—at short intervals, explode
In curious, shameful cries that wake harsh echoes down
the road.
They come, the Barracouta Bunch, all bargain-talk and
bray,
With barracouta-contents strewn along their gory way •
The decent fam’ly butcher shrinks and shudders on his
round
When, up the road, he runs against the barracouta
sound.
And we set out, in bitterness, to search for smelling,
salts, B
And groan for mercy when the barracouta-barrow halts
Outside ; our peace is slaughtered by the discords of the
Bunch
Serving the not-particular with dark-blue fish for lunch !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
F.P.K. : Hard to say which was the greater
fraud of a Freetrade policy in 1898—Reid’s or Britain’s.
Reid’s alleged Freetrade included duties on beer, bis-
cuits, dried, boiled and candied or preserved fruits,
candles (free in ’99), cider, cigars, cigarettes, confec-
tionery, currants, glucose, jams, liquorice, molasses,
treacle, morphia, opium, perry, raisins, preserves, spirits,
sugar, syrups, tea, tobacco, and wine. Britain at the
same time collected duties on beer, cards, chicory, coffee,
cocoa, dried fruit, currants, spirits, tea, tobacco, wine.
Reid’s tea duty was Id; Britain’s was 4d. Reid let off
coffee and cocoa, on which free-breakfast-table Britain
charged 2d. ; to square things he charged Id. on bis-
cuits, and from 3s. to 4s. per cwt. on sugar......
T.B.D. : Whatever merit your screed, entitled “ The
Luck of Drunks,” has is obscured by your awful fist
Kettledrum : Regret to say there is a heap of arrears on
hand. Probably items inquired for are among them
F. Allman : Your plea for the admission of the nigger is
based on the statement that “ most thinkers will'admit
that the color of the skin does not count for much so long
as a true heart and ready hand underlies it.” And we
briefly reply, “ Rats ! ” The first test of human capacity
is the exhibition of a power of decent and orderly self-
government— government by the people. No Asiatic or
African race has shown this power. Asiatic and
African history is a history of tyrants and subjects
—oppressors and oppressed. And wherever the colored
race mixes with the European the latter loses some of his
capacity for orderly self-government—witness South and
Central America, Russia, Turkey, Sicily. The twaddler
who would destroy the white race with a black admixture,
merely to gratify a diseased philanthropy (which is a
worse disease than drink), is a curse to the community
Caber : What is the cause of the enormous number of
fallings-away from the democratic standard among
Queensland politicians? Do you suggest that Queens-
landers are an inferior race compared to, say,
S. Australians? Or do you think it may be that a
few impossible persons have captured the Labor organisa-
tion in Queensland, and that they drive good men away
by their impossibleness ? Queensland’s Constitution gives
the Democracy a far better show than in Victoria, Tas-
mania, S.A., or Westralia; for in Queensland the
people control the Upper House through the
Lower one. Yet in S.A. the Labor party can work
with one Government after another—with Kingston,
Holder, and Price. And in Queensland the Labor
party seems to be always doing the Ishmael act
Bean Brummey : Mark Twain described that method of
tooth-extracting in “ Tom Sawyer,” decades ag0.... The
Wasp: A “ Parody on Longfellow’s renowned poem,
‘ The Open Window (or on any other subject) is a hard
thing to write acceptably. Yours is even below normal
parody-level.... Peanut: Has points, but the sweetness
is over-long drawn out A. McC. : A lad at your birth-
day tea called another a “ German,” whereat the assailed
one denounced his aggressor as “ a speckledy face Catho-
lic.” The riposte is hardly bright enough for print....
Brad: Item about seasick albatross not new. Every
sailor man can tell you that C.E. : “Life” is
plainly inspired by Longfellow’s “ Psalm ” upon the sub-
stance in question; it is neat and fairly accurate, but
sadly lacks inspiration.. ..M. A.C.: Yes ; the N.S. W. Miners’
Accident Relief Act provides for a weekly sum of ten
shillings payable during her life to the mother of a lad
killed in a mine. That is while she is unmarried. Similar
benefits are payable to the father of the deceased if, in
the opinion of the committee, the father was at the time
of his son’s death dependent on the deceased for support.
... .Cict: The point is a good one, and some of the lines
are telling; but there are numerous weak places
Eric B.: Hardly well enough worked-out W.C.S. :
More ingenuity than skill The Rager; You have not
dexterity enough Cosgrove A. :It has bright spots on
a somewhat dull background W.A.M. : Nothing to
recommend it... .Gertrude A.: You have invention, but
your workmanship leaves much to be desired. The
Prodigal: Nothing whatever in that....C.5.0.: Hasn’t
any “go” or spirit in it.... Wakatipu : That British law
does not exist here, and the landlord of the house can
distrain on a lodger’s furniture for rent due by the house-
holder ; that is to say, he can distrain on the furniture
except sewing machine, typewriter or mangle. The
only way a lodger might protect himself would be
by an agreement with the superior landlord
W. Towart: You’ll find your reasonable views expressed
in B. 7/5/’OB by “ Itan.” Tommerglin : But why
write about the selection of an Australian capital? The
place has been selected E.M.M. : “Rowing Club”
beginneth well, but at the end it taileth off considerably.
W.H. : When, for the 21st time in one poem, you
“rode across the bushland in the morning,” things
became a trifle wearisome Wareek : Handkerchief
tale a very old one Ajax : Smart in treatment, but
faulty in form here and there A.F.W.: No; we
don’t think it is waste of time. But, of the two items
sent, one hasn’t enough story in it, and the other is too
prolix Alf N. : And still you don’t catch-on
Ita : Both too long and weak in the back A.S. :
Approaches cleverness in places...... .L.G.B. : Alas, yes 1
We got your poem about the Braybrook calamity. Only
a strong constitution and a liberal use of somebody’s
Flushed Pills for Bleached People pulled us through
“Joy”: Glad to hear in regard to “the carnival held
recently at the modest town of Gulargambone, that you
can safely say a more orderly crowd of people were never
encountered anywhere else in New South Wales.” Also
pleased to know that all “ were on pleasure bent, and the
representatives of the Law to the number of two had simply
nothing to do also but enjoy themselves.” Joy, oh J0y....
J. 1.8. : This is the sort of opening sentence that is cal-
culated to wreck the finest adventure-yarn ever put
together: “ It is not everyone that can, with so light a
heart, recount an adventure wherein the hero, escaped
death by the skin of his teeth, especially when the hero
is none other than the ‘ raconteur ’ himself; but then
there is in the annals of voyaging no other record of one
that had so luckily cheated fatality, being able to con-
gratulate himself that he had been threatened with de-
struction by so amusing and unheard of an instrument.”
.... Yah : Suggestion that Wade should import Mississippi
(U.S.A.) water for Canberra site use impracticable....
B.R. : Marry the peerless girl lest worse befall. The saying
of one whose name we, for the moment, disremember —
viz., “ the red hot Idealist is more dangerous than the
Philistine by so much as a man is more dangerous than a
sheep ” —well meets your case. In any case, drop writing
torrid and unmetrical verse about her Oscar H. :
“Australian cockie and laborer” too repulsive
N.S. : The most that can be said for it is that
it isn’t quite ridiculous... The Moth : Chiefly remarkable
for the fantastic flourishes of yourchirography.. .O.L.E. :
You might as well call it a telegram as an epigram
Albert M. : It doesn’t show any promise Failure:
Exactly !... .H.H. : The badness of it is unspeakable
A.C.E. : Spirited but awkward in places, and far-fetched
in others... .D.E.J. : Nothing distinguished about them,
though “ Egotism ” offered an opening for fine treatment
Caesar: Not too badly written, but has no
discoverable point Wilbee: Don't care very
much for the story of the unsold horse
Nemesis: It is the old story. You sent a libel that,
unless supported by strong evidence, would probably
cost us several thousands. You sent no evidence, only
the say-so of an unknown person whose name and address
were so badly written as to be wholly uncertain (though
you write them rather more clearly this time). And
because we. didn’t publish the yarn without a shred of
evidence you say our “reason for not tackling the job
was a fear of offending people of high social standing.”
Doesn’t it occur to you that you are a miserable cur?
How would it be to swear affidavits on the matter, to
begin with, and send copies of them to the people
interested and the local press? Then when the
people interested sue you for libel you will
have a chance to show them up in court
Honey: “ Paddy Flynn ”is a mystery, and the problem
doesn’t seem worth solving A Native: Agree with
most of what you say, but viewing things as you do, why
do you object to Deakin’s idea of universal training?
You say the Australian will be all there when he is
wanted. So he will, but without training he will pro-
bably only be there to be slaughtered. The Boer war
gave a false idea about the value of untrained soldiers.
As a matter of fact, the Boer put up the scrap he did
because he was about the best-trained soldier in the
world —trained, not to “sa-a-lute,” but to long marches,
rapid advances, swift, orderly retreats, to clever scouting,
to good shooting, to making the best of cover, to
shifting for himself, arid at the same time to combined
movements, and to obedience to the word of command...
Grey Lynn : Why in the name of the Prophet will you
write in faint pencil streaks which are mostly smudge—
the pencil being soft —by the time the copy reaches us?
Namor : Your mate thought he was bitten by a snake,
but wasn’t. Doesn’t look very original, does it? Karri:
No, don’t do it again,.. .Young Aus. : Stodgy platitudes.
.... Quineecha : Rather jerky, but distinctly promising...
Dura: If The Bulletin ran a child’s column, story of
Martha the fowl would do very nicely. But it doesn’t
R.T. : “ Appetite ” joke is as old as the cave-men... .Jay-
bell : Six hundred and odd mostly lengthy words to inti-
mate that a Rockhampton (Q.) bound train ran into a
cow. Go to Veritas: A foolish par. In fact, all
pars, beginning “In a small manufacturing town not
a hundred miles from so-and-so,” etc., are foolish....
H. H. McD. : Pardonable for a first attempt... .Skookum :
It’s one of those pieces of cheap advice which mean only
“Be superior to human nature.” It’s like telling a circle
that it should try hard to be a square,.. .Wang : Your
bad metre blocks you every time....S. : Not absolutely
bad... .Fagin : Ingenious, but has hardly enough point
for print... .G.H.K.: Has some force, but the syntax is
faulty... .Talia : You have the poet-mind, and you are
improving somewhat in form, but whether you will ever
improve sufficiently, we can’t say... .Thomas S. : You
say we’ve printed stuff of yours “ that was a lot worse.”
Couldn’t have been worse ! G.F.T. : There is pathos in
it, but the idea needs stronger handling R.R.T.: Pithy,
but problematical. .W.J.W. : Neatly versified, but obscure
and wooden.... J.R.D. : Cut out contribution and post to
Bulletin accountant. Then will remittances speed your
way.. Alick: A tragedy with whiskers and a bald head. The
awful hopeless problem of how to lose “ a good woman’s
affection,” won originally in a light, foolish or alcoholi-
cally reckless moment, has harried fickle mankind from
the daybreak of civilisation... .Parkside : Rather un-
savory reminiscence of your dipsomaniac female acquaint-
ance, who was accustomed to get drunk constantly
during the’7o’s and early ’Bo’s in company with a billy-
goat, rejected... .Spawler : Interesting, but a thought
too steep... .R. 8.: Bald tale of incorrigible drunk
whose backslidings you observed on the Winton coach
unsuitable —even with your final reflection —“ Verily, the
road to Hell is paved with good intentions.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. Meyer : No great points about the joke, and the style
of art is so rare that we wouldn’t deprive you of it for the
world... .Ballen : Art rudimentary as yet, and one of the
jokes appeared in The Bulletin years ago. Whether it is
worth your while to persevere depends mostly on your
age... VV.G. VV. : Don’t try to work off that “iron con-
stitution ” gag on us at this late hour of the world’s
history.
An Oxley (Q.) resident has raised some
native plums, known as Davidson’s, which have
points of interest. The fruit is of good size, dark
purple, very astringent, and only edible after it
has been buried in the earth for a few days. Upon
resurrection it is mellow, and has moulted its
astringency. The fruit hangs in bunches on the
trees after the manner of dates. The name
(Davidson’s) is stolen from a pioneer sugar-planter
of North Queensland.


Dailies report the escapades of a band of immigrants of both sexes ashore
at Perth
«* Numerous nets of gross indecorum, to put it. mildly, occurred. The police
were glad when they returned to better control on board than could be enforced
on shore. It is evident that there is great laxity in the selection of such
immigrants ”
Furthermore, it has been found advisable to send several
immigrants to gaol lately.
“ASSISTED” IMMIGRANTS.
But that’s all right. Aren’t they imported specially to fill
“our empty spaces”?
THE INFLATED IDOL.
“ Football is once more in full
swing, and the 1908 season pro-
raises fo see the game more
popular r;hdn »ver."’
- U,i,lii pn V tr.
As a result ot stringent, aclministrn
tion of the Pure Food Act, dairymen
can no longer water their milk The
consequence is a sort of Milk famine in
Melbourne, the supply falling far short
of the demand.
Apparently there Is nothing like
the pump for making the milk go
round.
“Mr. Kingston's political career was
marked by great devotion to public
allaiis, entire disinterestedness in a
pecuniary sense, strong views of an in-
tensely democratic character. In short,
he was one of the ‘ big ' men— the nu n
who did things in the Hist Fedcial
Parliament.”— Arcus.
TnE SHADE: “Marvellous, isn’t
it. how death improves a man?”
S&1
was a young man of 27 years of age. who had been
pmrtloved bv the Commercial Bank for ten years, and, though
he P had the daily handling of from £3OOO to £4OOO, he was
- rewarded, and placed above the reach of wrongdoing, by the
muniticent income of £ll5 per annum, or £- 4s. per
I X. v
X LEAD us NOT INTO TEMPTATION.
The Clerk: -That’s my share-enough to live on, but not
enough to make it worth while to live on.
1 At recent representative gatherings of various sects
in Victoria there have been many doleful comments on
: the drift from the churches.” One reverend gentle-
man thought the public should be asked to make
suggestions for stopping this drift.
The Skipper: “Why, oh why, are you deserting
us, brother? have you nothing to suggest?”
The Drifter i ‘‘Well, if you ask me, I think all
that’s necessary is a new skipper and a new
ship.”
TOMBSTONES, FOOTBALL, &c.


AUSTR ALI A—ACC ORDIN G TO THE IDEA OF SUNDRY STATE PREMIERS.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming: Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321.
Fm O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
“ART AND INK.”
To Artists and Amateur Photographers.
Write re “ Art and Ink” Competition. Good Prizes.
Pull particulars “The Echo,” Ballarat, or Nelson P.
Whitelocke, Military Road, Mosman.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Superfluous item in the S. M. Herald’s
report of the citizens’ meeting convened to dis-
cuss the entertainment of the approaching Ameri-
can fleet: —
Mr. D. O’Connor also spoke.
Paul Kruger, a relation of Oom Paul, who
made so much history in South Africa, is at
present in Maoriland having a look at the country
that frantically exported a large quantity of
farm-burners to help destroy his native land some
years ago. He returns to the Transvaal shortly.
Charles Melton has completed his fiftieth
year of service in the Brisbane Courier office.
During that period ho has never missed a day’s
work through illness. In the office there are 27
men whose service ranges from 21 years to half-a-
century. There appears to be a lot of running in
Melton yet, for he occasionally takes a Sunday
stroll to Sandgate and back—a distance of 24
miles.
George Negus, the builder of many of
Brisbane’s best edifices, has given up the game
through Nature’s intervention. He was aged 76
when the camel called for him. Besides putting
up the Q. N. Bank, Court House, Royal Bank,
Bank of N.S.W., and many other structures, his
firm turned out railway rolling stock worth
£60,000. Queensland took to building its own
rolling stock early in life.
The heavy Victorian Bent has just pur-
chased his third motor-car, a magnificent machine
that looks capable of running round with the Zoo
elephant. Tommy has worn out two Government
motors in less than three years, mostly rushing
round looking at the land which he doesn’t resume
after all. The third is part of the machinery of
Government, and the bill goes to the accommo-
dating ratepayer, who is expected to foot it. The
new motor ran into a lorry on its second trip.
Fortunately for the lorry Bent was not aboard.
A veteran builder completed operations at
Wagga (N.S.W.) recently, aged 75. Charles
Hardy came to Australia in 1854, and in 1861
started to superimpose extraneous objects on the
surface of this country. In the process he erected
the principal buildings in nearly every N.S.W.
town between Yass and the Big Trickle. His
monument in Wagga is composed of all the banks
and churches, the majority of the public buildings,
and a substantial percentage of the private
residences.
William Walker, next to veteran T. A.
Dibbs the oldest officer in the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney, had his last official look at the over-
draft the other day, and then retired after 45
years’ service. He went north, where the white
man wilts, 42 years ago ; and he likes wilting so
much that, even now, he isn’t going to leave the
north. Amongst the few other things that have
happened to William Walker during his long ser-
vice in Queensland was the receipt of the first gold
found at Gympie by James Nash, the discoverer
of the field, just 40 years ago.
WATKINS, M.H.R. (N.S.W.).
Poor old “Colonel” Ike Austin, the
shootist, hit the heavenly target from Parramatta
(N.S.W.) Asylum, the other day. The “Colonel”
was ftn ex-United States army scout, and “after
the war ” (in which he served) turned his skill as
a marksman to profit by giving exhibitions. He
came to Australia years back, under engagement
to explode a rifle scientifically at a large salary.
Rumor, with vine leaves in its hair, called the
remuneration as much as £lOO a week. Then eye-
failure hit him cruelly, and he ricochetted in a
more or less direct line out of the public focusinto
the Parramatta House of Living Death. His
sergeant’s pension of 3s. 6d. per day helped him
“something considerable” in his retirement.
Mrs. Tucker, senior, proprietress of the
Maitland Mercury (N.S.W.), who died on
Friday night, was in her 91st year. She was
widow of the late T. W. Tucker, one of the
founders of the Mercury in 1842. The other
founder was Richard Jones, who entered Parlia-
ment and became Treasurer in the Cowper
Ministry (1857-’5B). Some papers in N.S.W.
begin to be of quite a respectable age.
“Joe” Giuliani, who broke his neck last
Saturday as a result of a fall from his hunter (he
was on his way home after a run with the local
hounds at the time), was famed as the most expert
hand with a refractory horse in N.S.W. The
most unpleasant equine “savage” became, under
his treatment, quiet and humble. Also he
“ made ” jumping horses with extraordinary skill,
so that it was said that there was no horse which
would not jump, and jump well, with Giuliani on
it. Joe had two bitter, unconquerable dislikes—
viz., horse-poets and motors, in that order of
detestation.
One George Randall, of Condobolin
(N.S.W.), having drained the cup of glory, is pay-
ing the penalty thereof. But yesteryear he was
mayor of his native town. H. Rawson, sea-dog
and State Governor, called there, and George
spread himself. He “ spent money freely.” Fizz
flowed in his bailiwick, and the Village Fathers
battled to the front and toasted “ The Flag ” and
“The Throne” and “The Royal Family” and
the Governor and themselves and George. George
“ received no allowance ” for these revels. “ All
the expenses came out of a business which he had
started with a small capital.” Now his estate has
been sequestrated, and as an entertainer of vice
or other regality he is a dead proposition. On one
point George may take comfort to his soul, He is
in notable company. The list of British peers,
knights, mayors, alder-folk and the like whose
insolvencies have been powerfully contributed to
as a result of wining and dining their sovereign
is longer than a boa-constrictor. George may
fairly claim a place in their glorious band—a niche
in the fame of those who have bust with loyalty.
By a Melbourne pressman :
Constable Mick Holden, who passed out of the Victorian
police force the other day under protest, on the ground
of undue interference with an engaged couple in a
Fitzroy Park, was probably the best known policeman in
Australia. He was not only known in Melbourne —he
had an international reputation. For years he was
stationed at Bourke-street West, from which the beats
along the wharves are worked, and, by reason of his
immense strength, to him was allotted the task of
keeping in order the various sailormen who at one
time turned Flinders-street after nightfall into a
place where the casual citizen took his life in his hands.
The hig, slow-moving, lumbering Mick, by his tact and
decisiveness, and, more than all, by his physical force,
turned Flinders-street into a thoroughfare as innocuous
as Oollins-street, and, at the same time, caused his
mana to become world wide. Lars Petersen and Antonio
Salvator ceased to slash at one another with clasp knives,
and incidentally stab the passing stranger. Dimitri
Otloff desisted in his custom of biting the ear of Alphonse
Mouriet. Visiting vessels were able to put off at the ad-
vertised time without having to scour Melbourne for
their crews. This work was not accomplished in a
night. For the first year he was on the Flinders-
street beat, not a week passed without Holden
strolling into Bourke-street West station towing-
three or four dungaree-clad persons of various com-
plexions behind him. He never deigned to take a
solitary prisoner if he could get two or three. The upshot
was that his name was passed along at every port by the
deep-sea sailors of the world. At ’Frisco, the seamen who
had just arrived from Melbourne warned the crews of the
outgoing boats to beware of Holden. At Liverpool, the
men off the latest tramp spread the fame of Holden
among those who were about to visit these climes. Infants
on the shores of the Baltic learned that the scar on
daddy’s cheek was due to collision with the fist of an
immense person named Holden somewhere in the South
Seas. In Neapolitan wineshops the Mafia cursed when
the name of Holden was mentioned. Mick’s methods
were simple. Barring his last escapade, he was an ideal
policeman. He never exceeded his duty, and never
struck a prisoner unless the prisoner looked for it. But
he followed to the letter the Biblical maxim that what a
man does he should do with all his might, and conse-
quently he encountered little trouble. On one occasion
be was rushed by a Chinese maniac, armed with a razor-
edged chisel. “ What did you do ? ” asked the Inspector
in subsequent proceedings. “ I just gave him a smack,”
drawled Holden. That was Holden’s one guiding prin-
ciple. He just gave them a smack ; and a smack from
the giant cop simply blotted out all views of time or
space. Nobody saw stars when Holden hit him. There
was no time. Things just ceased. As a ring fighter,
Mick would probably have made no impression. He was
too slow. But in the rough-and-tumble of police work he
was worth Burns and Squires put together. The police
force will have difficulty in looking on his like again.
So much of Rome as finds representation
in the Ma State is in a mild simmer of excitement
anent the pending appointment of Spanish Consul.
The office, which carries with it the right to wear
an ornate knee-breeched uniform, livery, disguise
or what not, and be visited by any number of in-
sanitary Dago persons annually, has been vacant
since the death of F. B. Freehill, its last holder.
It is in the gift of the Cardinal. “Young Tom ”
Dalton is “mentioned” in this connection, but
beyond being of the Faith and owning the lucre
requisite to purchase the official gauds, the claims
of Thomas are held by the cognoscenti to be slight.
He is not a Spanish scholar, so far as is known,
and would be badly at sea in striving to
resolve a maddened Hidalgo’s grievance. And
the grievances of the wandering Hidalgo who goes
consulling are as numerous as those of a State
Fright Premier, and as insoluble.
Some biography : —■
“ Charley ” Kingston had one brother, mostly known
as “Pat,” though his “company” name was Strickland
—so-called after the father. That father was a fine old
Irishman of the fighting school. He was well known as
Speaker of the Assembly for years, and, long before that,
he was Acting and then Deputy Surveyor-General of S.
Aus. He was probably the first white man to go over the
land whereon Adelaide is now built ; later on he helped
to lay out the city.
The family home was in Grote-street; there C.C. and
“ Pat ” were born and grew up, and it was for that district
that C.C. was elected to the Assembly. He never sat for
any other ; it returned him seven times. When the House
wasn’t sitting, the family put in most of its time at
Marino, on the foothills south of Adelaide ; the property
overhangs St. Vincent’s Gulf. There Kingston, sen., laid
out a great vineyard, one of the earliest in S. Australia,
and was proud of his wines and of his cellarage. When
the estate was divided this fell to C.C. ; and it was there
he spent much of his time latterly. But the vineyard is
a wreck, and the wine-cellars a ruin. C.C. took over
heavy liabilities along with the property.
The two boys had great strength and a Niagara of
animal spirits, an inheritance from their father.
Charley’s prowess as a footballer is still talked
of; but, Charley was never as fast a player as
Pat. For his bulk Pat had wonderful pace. Thev
both studied law. Every S. Australian knows
that they were at that time pretty wild. No
doubt the stories were exaggerated : anyway, S. Australia
owns a very large Nonconformist conscience, which
assumes there’s something shockingly wrong if you stay
out after 10. C.C. certainly didn’t read hard. Yet, even-
then, men who knew what he was really made of were
his warmest friends. S. J. Way, now and for 31 years
past Chief Justice of the State, had him as an articled
clerk ; and Way had come out of a Bible Christian manse,
and had stuck to that close little sect. It was he who
moved for Kingston’s admission to the Bar. It is not
often that an objection is lodged in such a case ; but
there had been family differences, and the unusual thing
happened. Way fought it successfully, and Kingston stayed
on in his office for three or four years, till he joined his
brilliant but racketty brother, and put out a shingle of
their own; and, though “Pat” drew out after a while,
the shingle remains in the same place until to-day.
When Kingston was buried, the rain
poured down so heavily that most of the people
who went to the funeral remained in the carriages
on the cemetery walks. Only about 100 ventured
out in the deluge. Deakin, it was noticed, stood
at the grave side bareheaded in the pelting down-
pour. The great Australian’s body was placed
beside that of his mother. She was a daughter of
Colonel Cameron and of the Portuguese heiress
with whom he eloped during the Peninsular war.
Dr. Maxwell, the highest-salaried Civil
Servant in Queensland (he gets £3OOO a year as
Comptroller of the Sugar Bureau), will, it is
alleged, not be re-engaged in October, when his
term of service expires. He has done fine work in
straightening up the finances of the central mills
—very fine work indeed. But Queensland has
an idea that the “ screw ”is too big. That
idea has been cultivated chiefly through a
yarn that when he accepted the job he
thought he was to get 3000 dollars ; and
Queensland argues that a man who was
willing to accept 3000 dollars isn’t likely
to be worth £3ooo—which, however,
doesn’t follow. Besides, the dollar story
is probably a joke. Maxwell was in
the Hawaiian Islands when he was en-
gaged, and he still has large sugar in-
terests in that archipelago of verdure and
leprosy.
Owing to the dry season [?]
lack of pasture, vasthonibers
of Victorian cattle are being "em-
igrated" to Queensland.
"What ho!
Grass Land
ahead!"
The item of “N.F.M.”
Re “Ned the Snag” (B. 23/4/’08), one “Teddy the
Snag,” who in many respects answers to your salvaged
acquaintance’s description, was wont to frequent the
Block in Boulder City (W.A.) years ago. He was /a
notable bar-breaster. Also he was no mean orator,
having the gift of tears and a ready emotionalism in other
respects. The last time I saw him he was standing on an
empty barrel outside a pub on the Boulder Block. He
was brimming - over with beer, and engaged in inviting the
community at large to fight with him. The worthy
fellow threw out his challenge in language that was
absolutely astonishing, and wept bitterly because nobody
would accept it. He bore a hideous reputation as a more
than normally lethal brand of pug, but no one ever
materialised who had engaged him. Doubtless they were
all dead. He was—between drunks —a fervent albeit
muddled churchman ; his faith hovering uncertainly
between intolerant Presbyterianism of the Dill Macky
brand and the creed professed by the Bright Red Female.
Governor Brisbane, the astronomical en-
thusiast of 80 years ago, is recalled by the death
of his niece, Mrs. Isabella Swan, at Balmain
(N.S.W.). Brisbane did nothing remarkable, yet
he is the only Australian Governor who had a
capital named after him. He was an excellent
clockmaker, and, when not pressed with official
work, he would sit clown to his table and make a
clock for a friend. If he was pressed with official
work, he just let the work slide and attended to
the clock. He cared little about governing in the
old early sense, but any plausible person who
wanted five or ten thousand acres of land in the
interior could get them and welcome by calling at
Government House. About 5000 acres was the
regular “hand out” at the back door of the
official residence in Brisbane’s day.
“Boree” sends some items about an
already obituarised citizen :
A “ white man ” passed out at Traralgon (Vic.) in the
person of Herbert R. Horne, 11. D., who died as the result
of a motor accident. Deceased was a stirring soul and
had a remarkable career. In his student days in Edin-
burgh he was champion lightweight boxer of Scotland,
and, later on, his fistic facility saved his life and that of a
mate in China. From a country practice in Victoria he
went as a private to the South African war, and contrived
to receive more bullets than any ten average cohentin-
genters. Invalided home, thanks to a shot which pierced
his heart and both lungs, his case was pronounced hopeless,
after which Horne made a rapid recovery and was
shortly back in S. Africa. There his bush knowledge got
his company out of a neatly planned ambush, in which he
himself scored nine wounds. Again invalided home, he
bought a practice in Albury, and there smashed his leg
badly while fleeing on a motor-cycle to see a patient. He
set his own leg as he lay on the road awaiting help—
which did not happen along until he was almost frozen.
Later on he practised in Amoy (Chowland) as medical
examiner for the China Mutual Life Assurance Society,
and while out in the country with Forbes Eadie,
collector for the Society, was attacked by 15
bandits with knives. The Australians ran with
vigor and decision. Eadie, however, tripped and
fell. Horne, looking back, saw him on the ground, and
returned to his rescue, and a Homeric conflict took place.
Horne’s deadly energy with his hands proved too much
for the Yellow Peril ; and backed up by Eadie, who made
himself very unpleasant with a large stone, he put up a
fight that is talked of yet. Two Chows he killed with his
bare fists; then the Australians got h- Id of the fallen
Mongolians’ knives and the battle raged until the as-
saulting party made off, minus six of their number dead
and wounded. Horne then bandaged his friend’s wounds
as best he could, and finally sewed up his
own body, which was ripped open in ghastly
fashion, after which he carried Eadie, or as-
sisted him to crawl, to the nearest village. Horne
had 48 wounds, and his life w r as despaired of, the body
gash and a head-stab being considered incurable. Never-
theless, he partially recovered, and was sent home to be
operated upon. Arrived in Melbourne, he considered the
operation wasn’t necessary, and recommenced work at
Traralgon—weakened and grey at the age,of 38, but game
as ever. The Chinese Government had to pay compensa-
tion —£1100 to Horne and £2OO to Eadie. Horne’s repu-
tation as a sportsman went beyond Gippsland. A keen
shot and a fine, albeit utterly reckless, rider, he also
captained cricket, football, golf, and tennis clubs, and
won trophies innumerable. He was flung out of his motor
a week or two ago, the steering-gear having fouled. He
-suppressed all evidence of his own pain- while he helped
his shaken wife to the nearest house, a quarter of a mile
away, and then he collapsed. His liver was ruptured,
and he died next day. Deceased was a brother of Dr.
George Horne, of Clifton Hill, and Dr. Alex Horne, of
Broken Hill. A sister of his is married to Dr. A. E. Syme,
third son of David the King, now deceased.
It was a remarkable coincidence that the
same Bulletin which recorded the death of Aus
tralia’s patriot, O. C. Kingston, recorded also the
death of J. P. Stow, who, as returning officer Wa
the first man to congratulate him on his’fir f
election to Parliament 28 years ago.
Died at Jindabyne, close to the Austra-
lian capital, last week, Mrs. McEvoy, relict of
James McEvoy, aged 89. iShe was the first
white woman to cross the Snowy River (in
October, 1830), at a place still known as McEvoy’s
Crossing. In her younger days Mrs. Mac was an
expert horsewoman, and she filled in part of one
day of her life in putting herself 70 miles away
from the place she had been in when she was there.
“Gallery Note ” writes :
Have recently been a witness of a striking contrast—
Joe Lesina, M.L.A., speaking fustian for seven hours in
the Assembly, and Railway (Commissioner Thallon deli-
vering a fifteen minutes’ reply to a toast in his honor at a
monster meeting of railway employees. The gulf between
the two men ! Lesina has sat in Parliament for about 10
years, and done absolutely nothing except fill Hansard.
Tnallon has been less than six,years Commissioner, and has
handled a State enterprise, having over 10,000 employees
and a capital of some -£22,000,000, with magnificent re-
sults. Yet Lesina is a roseate idol to a big crowd of ill-
balanced taxpayers, who w'ould momentarily grieve at
his political extinction ; and Thallon is simply a strong,
capable public servant who, if called upon to express his
views on human progress since the year 1, would pro-
bably come to a full stop in half-an-hour. It is a clear
case of Wind v. Worth. Just imagine what sort of Rail-
way Commissioner—or even Railway Porter—Lesii a
would make !
LOADED.
The States won’t have the Commonwealth’s scheme of
finance adjustments nor propose any themselves, the
time, however, is rapidly approaching when they will be
dislodged from their post of vantage. —AGE.
“ Can’t you read the notice ?”
"’Don’t care! Here we is. and here we sticks!"
The late and much-lamented C. C. Kingston
wrote a shocking “fist.” His thoughts raced
ahead of his hand, so, in his desire to
get the next word down, the word he was
writing invariably tailed off into a wavy line.
While he was at the Customs, doing an enormous
amount of detail work, the old habit got even
worse than usual, and reached its zenith dunng
the tariff struggle. Happily, an officer was un-
earthed (a descendant, •it was alleged,, of tne
Pharaohs) who could read Kingston at sight; so
he was put on to the job of doing translations o
Kingston’s hieroglyphic minutes before they left
the office.
A little man stepped in the shop,
And said : “ Now you be sure
To give me what I ask for pop,
That’s Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
It’s no use to try and force
On me some other class,
For though I am a little hoarse
I’m not a little ass.”


L_Ji
JO
15
13
n
0
1
m
tv
u
V-
i
>*-
&
O
V-v
/
-4
j
u
L
mm
'~JO
A
(A
PX
r •//
<
4
i \
n
saw
HOW THOSE OLD TIMERS WOULD HAVE RUSHED HAVELOCK!
In the records of the past and present there has never been such an universal favorite “ for Quality ” as HAVELOCK Tobacco.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
GO TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€i), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis
This Elastic Truss—
"r*v'V '.v’T'dir!!!
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
According to T. Bent, the Premiers’ Con-
ference performed a mountain of labor. A moun-
tain in labor, and no mouse !
At last a “ Secesh ” candidate has really
shown himself ; he is running against the two
State-party representatives for Carruthers’ old
seat.
A conference of Railway Commissioners
has been held in Melbourne to arrange uniform
methods and practices. Heavens ! Aren’t we to
be allowed to ride in reasonable safety anywhere ?
The S. M. Herald struck a great truth
in its contents bill last Saturday : —
MR. WADE AT ROCKDALE.
SUSPECTED POISONING.
Poisoning of the public mind with false state-
ments about the Commonwealth, no doubt.
AUSTRALIA ARMING.—THIS IS AS FAR AS IT HAS GOT UP TO NOW.
The irony of Page (Q.) is as unobtrusive
as a railway accident, and sometimes as bitterly
true. “Was the Treasurer aware,” Page in
effect asked, the other day, “that the ‘Corner
push ’ was intriguing to upset the Government,
with the purpose of forming a new Government
with Bigjohn Forrest as Prime Minister, and
Knox as Treasurer ?” It was a heavy jest; and
yet recent utterances suggest that the “Corner
push ” does dream of “ offis ” in its more irrational
moments.
C. C. Geade, a Maoriland journalist, now
pushing the pen in the Cold Country, paints this
picture in a private letter
The suffering and poverty of the unwashed millions
in England, when trade is bad, are things almost beyond
description. It is impossible to realise what the horrible
dirt and poverty is amongst so much of English life. It
is as depressing as it is revolting. The socialist and
political economists are beginning to realise that public
charity, admirable and Christianlike as it may be, is not a
remedy. It never touches the cause. Under the smoke-
laden atmosphere, some men, whose heredity frequently
originates in the slums, are doomed to an idle, dirty
vagabondage that is not always their fault. Poor food,
want of exercise, dirt—in short, all the shortcomings of
their environment, aided often by the inevitable heredi-
tary tendencies, stunt the free soaring spirit of the man,
and raise the idle, shiftless devil of the waster.
The absurd old fiction that ‘ ‘ the Crown
can do no wrong ” was resurrected the other day
in Tasmania, and knocked out the prosecution of
the superintendent of a boys’ training home for
selling milk without a license. The beastly
trouble in a case like this is that typhoid bacilli
and other badly brought-up reptiles won’t distin-
guish between milk from the Crown’s cow and
milk from any other cow ; and infected in ilk from
the Crown’s premises is just as liable to kill off
the population as any other infected milk.
Britain proposes to start a system of old-
age pensions. But it takes so much of Britain’s
cash to pay its immense landholders their in-
comes of from £lO,OOO to £500,000 a year, that the
number of the aged poor is something too terrible
for words, and Britain, rich as it is, doesn’t know
how to help them all. So it has been decided to
start the pensions at the age of 70, when most of
the poor are dead ; and even then to give only ss.
per week. N.S.W., Victoria and Maoriland start
paying pensions at the age of 65. Denmark
begins at 60. But Britain reckons that ss. a week
to the tottering venerable of 70 or more is all that
it can afford.
The cantankerous State Kids’ Conference
threat to go to law with the Commonwealth over
the wheat-bag question looks like fizzling out.
The Kids, before they dispersed, had a talk with
Customs Minister Chapman, who told them in
effect that, as long as Australians didn’t have to
lump murderous weights, he didn’t care two
straws how the sinful practice was stopped. The
State Kids promptly jumped at that chance to
preserve some part of their precious “ dignity, ”
and now it is ynderstood there will be no “law ”
there will just be a series of new railway regula-
tions popping prohibitive freights on to wheat
carried in sacks weighing more than about 2001 b.
Bent’s proposal to “ take a referendum to
decide whether the people approve of Federation
on the present lines” is on a par with Carruthers’
idea of similarly deciding whether a majority
favored Dalgety for the Federal capital. Quite a
lot of people don’t approve of Federation on the
present lines because the lines aren’t wide and
straight enough; others for various reasons. The
honest referendum would inquire whether
Australians prefer (1) the existing state of affairs ;
(2) less Federation, i.e.. a return to the old State
foolishness ; (3) more Federation—meaning there-
by the squelching of the absurd State insects, and
their unnecessary twelve little Houses, and the
expensive Governors and officials. But, of course,
Bent is only bluffing as usual. He doesn’t really
mean to have any referendum at all.
The State Government of N.S.W. is wast-
ing some public money on law expenses in the
effort to starve the family of a deserving old
public servant. Old John Heffernan, N.S.W.
postal official, went where the benevolent Ethio-
pians go, and the Commonwealth paid his family
a gratuity of £264. It is claimed that, according
to the last split hair of the law, the relatives of
old John weren’t entitled to this money, and
if they hadn’t received it, but had been allowed
to perish by the wayside, so to speak, the N.S.W.
Treasurer would have had more Federal surplus
coming to him. So the Wade Government of
N.S.W. has been suing the Commonwealth for
the cash that it lost through the dependents of
John Heffernan being shown some small con-
sideration, even as Dives, if he had been sufficient
of a worm, might have sued Lazarus for the rent
of the dog that licked his sores. Judgment was
reserved.
Knox, the Yic. politician who became a
public character by wearing an astounding hat, has
published a bathetic Tory plea for the reuniting of
the Liberal party in Commonwealth politics.
Knox’s scheme is simplicity itself. If all the
members outside the Labor party will only consent
to think like Knox, the thing is done. The com-
bine will presumably be called the Knoxious party.
Of course members must wear the Knox hat,
because the hat is Knox.
Amongst other things, N.S.W. Premier
Wade remarked tearfully, when he got back after
meeting Prime Minister Deakin and Treasurer
Lyne, that “for all the loans we raise in the future
we—the States—are alone responsible, and have
to find the interest the best way we can.” Yet
Wade heads a Reform crowd which is prepared to
swear all sorts of oaths that it would never dream
of spending loan money on anything but “per-
manent and reproductive undertakings.” All the
same, though he wouldn’t dream of borrowing
money for anything that wouldn’t pay its own
interest, he rails bitterly at the Commonwealth
and its financial proposals, and wants to know
where it thinks the State is to get interest on
future loans from. Apparently, as he also objects
to the Commonwealth having any revenue, Wade
expects it to raise money in Turkey, and there-
with pay his interest for him.
The sort of item the Tory daily papers
carefully hide away in an obscure corner :
William Lyne has received a letter from the office of
the N.S.W. Agent-General relating to the working of the
Federal Commerce Act, and stating that the Act was
doing a great deal of good to Australian products. The
chairman of the leather section of the London Chamber of
Commerce had declared that the improvement in the
condition and quality of Australian leather was remark-
able. In regard to the leather from New South Wales, in
particular, the use of foreign matters other than tanning
materials had almost ceased.
And how the Tory and Foreign-trade dailies cursed
that measure when it was going through Parlia-
ment, and denounced it as the botch of a deranged
amateur, and struck lofty and superior attitudes
about it, and expressed their sorrow that Australia
should be made a public scoff by things of the
kind !
Henniker Heaton, the penny post person,
threatens to start a campaign for the State re-
sumption of submarine cables and the introduction
of penny-a-word telegrams throughout the empire.
If the event comes off, the way the Australian
daily papers will froth at the mouth will be worth
seeing. At present cables are expensive, but they
are made cheap for papers inside the Combine by
a process of subdivision. The Combine keeps a
joint agent in London to send out news, and one
desolate hunk of fact does
for all. One result is blank
monotony. Another result
is that, when a multitude
of papers pay for a cable-
gram among them, the cost
to each paper is very small.
A third result is that no
new city paper can start
except with the Combine’s
permission; if one starts
without permission, and is
refused admission to the
Trust, then it must pay
full price for its own cable-
grams, and that would
just about burst Roths-
child. But with penny-a-
word cablegrams the new
paper would appoint its
own correspondent in Lon-
don, pay for its own cable
news (possibly a much
brighter lot of news than
the Combine’s), and make
faces at the Trust. There-
fore, the Trust probably regards Henniker as a
meddle some old man.
A recent cable states that the anti-Chinese
agitation is assuming large dimensions in the
shipping districts of London, and that irate
British sailors, done out of their jobs by the cheap
Chinee, are actually hunting the heathen round
the streets of Poplar. This cable must have spoilt
Bruce Smith’s breakfast that morning. With
anti-Chinese riots in the heart of London itself,
the ultimate struggle for supremacy between
White and Yellow is surely brought a little
nearer.
The agitation for the removal of the
Sydney Quarantine Station from North Head,
where it was foolishly put many years ago, is
being rushed into prominence. The proposed
removal to Broken Bay is not more urgent now
than it has been, but the fact that the Australian
Government is about to take over the Quarantine
business is an excuse for getting a move on.
Besides, the cost will have to be shouldered by
the Commonwealth. Were the Quarantine busi-
ness an asset, Wade would probably be demanding
millions before the Federal authority put its
vandal hands on it. As it is, Wade clamors for
immediate Federal action, and his cry is like unto
the dinner bell at a hash-tower.
Westralia had something that was more or
less of an election last week. It had to elect 10
members of the House of Big Landlords and
Lucky Share-Gamblers ; that is to say, the Fattest
one-sixth of those who are old enough to be
electors had to do the electing. Naturally, as the
Fattest are mostly of one mind about politics,
there wasn’t any contest at all in four districts,
and in the other six the contest was mostly a rather
tired hunting-up of personal friends. One of the
inevitable ’Ayneses wasn’t elected for Perth, but
Do-The-Thing-Well Jenkins’ son was; there was
a tie in another district; Kirwan, who was in the
Reps, once, beat a Labor man for the Goldfields
seat; miller and big landowner Piesse was un-
opposed for the south-east, as usual; and Connolly,
the Newton-Moore borrow-and-bust Government’s
representative in the Dreary House, was also
returned as usual for another district that took
the matter so seriously that less than 2000 voted
altogether.
The Labor candidate who is to try for
Kingston’s Federal seat is E. A. Roberts, who in
December, 1899, was one of three former sup-
porters who voted against the Kingston Govern-
ment when it lost office by one vote. J. Y.
O’Loglilin, who was four years a colleague of
Kingston in the State Cabinet, was third in the
voting by the Labor Selection Committee, his re-
cent defeat by Vardon having depressed his stock.
Kingston forgave Roberts long ago, and was on
friendly terms with him when he died. Roberts
is about the cleverest man in the S.A. Assembly,
buthehas been such a thorn in the side of Tom Price
and his Ministers that they will be very glad to wit-
ness his removal to Federal politics, while the leader
of the State Parliamentary Labor party will be
almost equally pleased to say good-bye to him.
Roberts is a slashing speaker, quick at retort, and
bitter in his invective. He fought in the Boer
war as a lieutenant, and was recommended by his
colonel for a Y.C.; but, as no British officer was
present on the occasion of his exploit, he did not
get it. He has no personal fear; likewise no dis-
cretion either.
Now that two large companies are sending
steamships to Twofold Bay, the future of the
Federal capital’s port may be called assured. But it
badly wants a breakwater. N.S.W. Public Works
Department estimated, some years ago, that the
breakwater would cost £150,000. Jetties are
also needed. But with improvements amounting
altogether to under £200,000, it was stated that
Twofold Bay would rival Port Jackson as a secure
anchorage and naval base.
"ANGUISH."
(After a celebrated picture in Melbourne Gallery.)
Kerang, Monday.—The mysterious disappearance of
golf balls on the local links was solved last week by one
of the members of the club, who, on taking a round
noticed a crow swoop down and fly off with his ball, mis-
taking it probably for an egg. The amount of golf
language the player used in his futile endeavor to recover
his ball is not recorded, nor has it yet been decided as to
how the new hazard is to be provided for in the rules. On
Saturday, when the links were formally opened for the
season, the crows were again present in numbers, and had
to be scared off to allow the game to proceed.
N.S.W. Education Minister Hogue gave a
“favorable reply” to a deputation from the
Peace Society, which “asked that abhorrence of
war should be inculcated through the public
schools.” And in a sense the Peace Society is
right. The people should be taught to abhor war.
They should be taught to abhor the other fellow
for going to war with us.
“A Man in Townsville” writes : —“The
Government of N.S.W. is advertising on our rail-
way station by means of most elaborate pictures,
which call attention to the beauties and attrac-
tions of the magnificent Snowy River. The
scenery, water, and fishing are described as
superb, exquisite and unsurpassed. And I sup-
pose it is all quite true. But what struck me as
peculiar is that Canberra is not mentioned on one
solitary advt. If it is such a charming place, and
the 4 soft Italian climate’ is so alluring as made
out by those interested in having it made the
Federal territory, why doesn’t Mr. Wade adver-
tise it instead of the Snowy River ? He does not
even mention the name on any of the advertise-
ments. How is this ? ”
GOOD TIMES COMING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. B, H. Morgan, representative of the British Manu-
facturers’ Association, is in Australia making inquiries
into the question of establishing branch factories here.
—News item.
Have you seen the rich importer, William Lyne,
Staring madly at the papers of the day ?
Have you heard the dreary echo of his whine :
“’Tis the tariff that has driven trade away”?
But a scribe from Sydney writes:
“ We’ve a man in search of sites—
Laud to build big factories on without delay.”
Do you hear the ring of metal, William L.,
You who revel in a tumult, loud and long?
Do your heart-beats seem to quicken to the swell
When the Hell-hot furnaces are making song ?
Night and day the ceaseless clamor,
Clash of steel and clang of hammer,
And the Babel’d sounds of industry that throng.
Can you see the workmen streaming, Tariff Bill,
From a thousand foundry doors into the street,
When the whistles shriek their “knock-off” loud and
shrill?
Can you hear the steady tramp of marching feet?
Men from mill and lathe and benches,
Men to fill Australia’s trenches
When, alone, we hear the foemen at our gateway loudly
beat.
There are good times coming, William, very soon,
When the nation from its shackles will be freed,
When the big machines run morning, night, and noon,
And we’re turning out our wares at lightning speed ;
When the orders keep on coming,
And the factories are humming,
And we’re busy making everything we need.
N.S.W.
VELDT.
THE AMENDMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The House of Reps, decided, in accordance with a
suggestion from the Senate, that in the tariff item,
“ Bent poles for vehicles, rough or dressed, 30 percent,
and 25 per cent.,” the word “ bent ” be omitted.
On the constant raucous wailing
That the States Frights party use,
When Australia they’re assailing,
Came the joyous, welcome news,
That the Senate had transmitted
To another place’s will—
That the word “ bent ” be omitted
From the schedule of the Bill.
Though they were not extricating
Us from ills we suffer from,
And the bent they were debating
Had no reference to Tom,
Still a hope sublime and sweet did
Sweep across our anguished soul,
That he yet may be deleted
From Australia’s fair control.
And the day that consummation
We have waited long’s occurred,
We’ll propose eradication
Of another little word ;
While Australia close is knitted
With no one her will to flout,
When the word “ Bent ”'s been omitted
And the word “ Wade” ’s been struck out.
N.S.W.
H. GLUBB.
CRIPPLED IN BED WITH RHEUMATISM.
COULDN’T TURN WITHOUT HELP; JOINTS SWOLLEN
OUT OF SHAPE. AGONY MORE OR LESS
FOR YEARS.
SYDNEY WOMAN CURED BY DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK
PILLS.
Mrs. Martha Price, 16 Church Street, Pyrmont,
was a martyr to rheumatism. She tried to cure it
with liniments and outward applications, but she
soon found that all the rubbing in the world
would never cure a disease that was rooted in the
blood. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills were the only
medicine able to cure her, and they did this by
driving the acid which clogs the joints and
gives rise to the pains, the swellings and the stiff-
ness from her blood. Por months she was practi-
cally a cripple, unable to move in bed unless
helped. To-day she is a strong, active woman.
She tells how rheumatism never troubles her since
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured her.
“ Pretty well all my life I was subject to rheu-
matism and I had a very bad turn of it six years
ago, ’’ said Mrs. Price. “ All my body got affected,
particularly my arms and legs. My finger joints
swelled and got so knotted that my hands were
quite useless, and my ankles were all puffed up.
I was helpless and unable to move in bed unless
helped—l had a rope provided that I could pull
myself up on. I could only sleep by taking medi-
cine from the doctor, otherwise I would never
close my eyes. The pains burned and gnawed till
I was nearly distracted. I had fomentations of
turpentine and different liniments, but all to no
purpose. For three months I was just helpless
with the agony. Besides the rheumatism I got
sciatica in my left hip. I couldn’t move my leg.
At last I started Dr. Williams’ Pmk Pills, and
they did me a vast amount of good. I fancied i
was better after the first few doses. As I kept on
with them the pains gradually lessened and my
joints got more supple, so that I could take hold
of any article I wanted to with freedom xty
fingers got less inflamed and tender. Formerly
I couldn’t bear anyone near me, I was in such pain.
Before many weeks I could move fairly treeiy,
and as I went on with the course the pain gradu-
ally ebbed away altogether, and I was at last
entirely free. I was able to sleep well an wa
with perfect ease. To-day my health is very good
m< L)r! < Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all medi-
cine dealers, or if you cannot get them locally,
send direct to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., -
tralasia Ltd., Sydney, 2s. 9d. for one box, six
boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.


Satisfaction Guaranteed
in our
£3/3/-
SUITS.
Write for Patterns and
Self. Measurement Forms.
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
J>)
M WL
WHEN the King of England wants to see a
show they bring the show to the castle,
and he hears it in his private theatre.
In democratic Australia we are all kings as
far as having our own private show is concerned.
We simply buy an Edison Phonograph and listen
to the latest popular song, to the famous tenor
opera singer, to a fine old hymn, to a funny
dialogue, or a rousing band march.
The Edison Phonograph is a theatre in itself,
and whether you live in the heart of the city or
way back in the “ never-never” you can command
the most finished artists to minister to your pleasure.
Anything that can be spoken, sung or played can be reproduced
in the Edison Phonograph with great naturalness It brings out the
most tender tone with unerring accuracy, and one ‘an a mos =>
the performer is present.
If you are a king-and Ruskin tells you that you can be-why don’t
you exercise your kingly privilege and have a show of your own
your house.
Hearing is -believing. Ask us and we will tell you the name of your
nearest dealer. He will gladly play over some recent selections for you.
National Phonograph Co. op Australia Ltd
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
-Malthoid Dampgourse
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not." — Marcus Aurelius.
The varying and unsatisfactory making and laying of dampcourses led to
the introduction of the Malthoid Dampcourse, which is always of the same
uniform standard that has earned for it the universal admiration of all
leading architects and builders who constantly specify it.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
'(Lent
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1884.
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
G. A. GARDINER.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Makes you look manly
If*
A. After
fl
Before
TRY IT YOURSELF—NOW
If CAPILLARINE is all we claim for it, then you will
be rewarded with the much-desired moustache. It wants
only a very little patience, for CAPILLARINE is the
ONLY SURE PREPARATION for the purpose.
CAPILLARINE
COSTS
10/6
POST FREE to Any Part
of the World in
SEALED PACKAGE.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
THE GEM OF MONARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
Further information may be obtained from the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate, Ltd., 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney; H. A. Merewether, Royal Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney ; The Manager, Mount Cooper
Estate, Holt’s Flat, N.S.W. ; or The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.
e
90$
• £®r (Sa “
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONL Y.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
CONJURING TRICKS,
PUZZLES, SURPRISE
& JOKE NOVELTIES.
The Look and Laugh Glass,
See the Passing-
Show . Y our friends
grotesquely Photo-
graph e d —s tout
people look thin —
thin people look
stout. The Laugh-
ing: Camera fur-
nishes all this, and
more. By getting
a focus on passing
pedestrians, horses,
waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures
are witnessed. All
The Laughing Camera.
grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly made, and cannot get
out of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Quite Shocking’, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOGRAPH—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having- a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the
pretty picture, and turns the button in the
confident expectation of seeing something
interesting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get Qut of order, and can be carried
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue-
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
r:
:~r. k = t: z t":
Wista 01*5*5
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market. Even
our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled. Three
entirely different moves before the purse can be opened.
It is made of superior leather, with inside pocket, and
strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated directions en-
closed. Post free, anywhere, 2/-. Do not miss this
chance of obtaining one of the best and most
useful puzzles ever produced.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarketi Post Office.


[ DRINK \
Charles Hefdsieck
VINTACE 1900
Champagne. J
THE VERY BEST.
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
• (
Wholesale
for Australia —
Hogg, Robinson
&Co., Propty. ,Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
The Woman Who Studies Beauty is always
the most sought after, and has the happiest of lives. You
cannot be beautiful if you haven’t got a clear fresh skin.
A little attention and that wonderful skin food Valaze
will attain for you the beautiful complexion that is
delicate, natural, and attractive. Valaze nourishes the
skin and removes every wrinkle and facial defect. It
sinks into the pores, evicts all the impurities, leaving a
clear glow of health and beauty. Valaze stands alone and
supreme as a skin food and complexion beautifier. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. 6d., postage 6d. Associated with the Valaze in
its ministry of beauty is the Valaze Skin Tonic ; it tightens
the skin, acts as a preservative, and is especially bene-
ficial in curing a greasy skin. 3s. 6d., postage (id. From
all chemists, or direct from Mile. Helena Kubinstein and
Co., Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney;
274 Collins Street, Melbourne; 9 Brandon Street,
Wellington, N.Z.'*
Emhm
cm
’ f f.cz
: J(\
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
That’s a packet of Robur
tea—you’ll know it when you
see it on a grocer’s shelf it’s
not showy, only just an
ordinary looking packet with
Red and Green printing upon
it—but what does the outside
of the packet matter —it s the
tea that’s inside that counts.
You may stake your life
upon it that any package
bearing the word Robur
contains pure tea and nothing
else. No rubbish for flavoring
it or anything like that is
added—it’s just pure, nice
tea, very wholesome, and
wonderfully economical —try
the No. 1 grade —it’s delicious.
a
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.
99
FA CILE PFUNCEPS
ftFMPBR IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May' 19, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
From the Queen (the London lady’s newspaper)
of April 4 :
Qokenslands. —Where can two boys coming from the
colonies, where they were allowed to run wild,
procure stays to improve their figure i —Mrs. George
Sykes, 24 Hanover Square, is very clever in making
them. Ordinary ladies’ stays would not do. You
need quite a different cut for the male figure.
Now, is some Queenslander having a joke on the
dreary, solemn Queen ? Or is some female counter-
part of Professor Turveydrop really going to put
the two Australian youths into corsets? And
how do boys’ figures “run wild”? These boys,
you will note, have but one figure between them.
But observe the piercing sense of observation
possessed by the lady who is “ Answers to corre-
spondents”: “Ordinary ladies’ stays would not
do. You need quite a different cut for the male
figure.” She hasn’t gone through life with both
eyes in a sling.
Seriously, though (yet it is difficult to be serious
on the topic of Stays for Him), corsets are worn
by more men than are dreamt of in the feminine
philosophy. A tailor told me this and showed me
some of the corsets. The sly things—the men,
not the corsets —keep the secret very closely.
That’s why no woman doctor has a chance
to inveigh against the martyrdom of man
(in corsets) as the male physician does
with the corseted woman as his objective. Men’s
present fashion, the tailor-man explains, demands
the wearing of a corset because the coat has to fit
closely at the waist-line, and the skirts of the
fashionable garment of to-day are full, and often
whaleboned round the hem. A glance at a plate
in a fashion journal showing a group at the Grand
Prix, for instance, shows the men’s skirts as cut
with a flare at the hem. Their shoulders slope—
the stuffing has been knocked out of them. Their
tall hats are tilted back off their foreheads and—
now this is so important that it ought to be heard
with an ear-trumpet—their gloves are turned back
from the wrist over the hand. Viennese fashion-
pictures show the same fad. The man who doesn’t
turn his gloves back at least two inches is aesthe-
tically lost, and deserves to be hanged on the
finger-post to fools. Its other name is Fashion.
Exeellencette Rawson is living laborious days
and evenings. The rain of executive meetings, of
openings of Homes, of anniversaries, of Worthy
Objects, of Women’s Councils, of Infants’ Kinder-
garten Unions, and Charity balls has increased to
a deluge. Most persons have the sense to come
in out of a deluge. If not, their friends gently
but firmly put them under cover and so save the
bother of first-aid to the drowning. Excellency
Rawson will send his ewe lamb away to some
quiet holiday pasture in June, and she probably
won’t come back to hard work again until the
dizzy time when the Canned Beef Fleet is here.
A girl friend bleats about an outing given by
the Women’s Patriotic Club :
A special tram conveyed about 200 patriots to Botany,
via La Perouse (avoiding the six different odors to be met
with when the route is via Botany township). Their
destination was Bunnerong House, right on the shores of
Botany Bay, a fine old residence of 20 rooms or so, with a
few acres of ground. It.is just the place for the object
in view—a home for training 20 State girls as domestic
servants. The place was once the property of one named
Walsh, a woolscourer, whose scour was adjacent. Walsh
has since gone to join the angel band, but his house is
now the property of the bank, which wants but £7O a
year as rent, all on account of the surrounding tanneries,
woolscours, and such like.
After everybody had wandered round for a bit viewing
things, While the band played, Mrs. Jenkins, one of the
committee, made a speech, very well delivered, short and
to the point. Indeed, she was a model for some of our
public speakers. A mere man supported her remarks (I
don’t know who he was), and then Mrs. Moseley added a
few more observations. (Applause, afternoon tea, and
then the band played again.)
Afterwards we went to La Perouse and had dinner with
the Ist Regiment, “A” Company, under Lieutenant-
Colonel Holmes, as a preliminary to a “ Camp Fire ” near
the edge of the Bay. There Were only half-a-dozen of the
gentler sex present, and about 400 men. A huge confla-
gration burned in the centre, and the men who sur-
rounded it sang martial choruses, in which we all joined,
assisted by the brass band: There were a few comic songs
by some of the men, and contributions by Major Watson
(of Pretoria note) and Captain Kennar'd. Mrs. Colonel
Holmes gave some imitations of “ Proposals.” Then there
was another song from one of Company A—a sudden
attack from ambush bv the bicycle corps in the middle of
it, a call to arms, a breaking up of proceedings, and after
that home by special trams to the city.
The Roman papers state that King Victor, of
Italy, highly approves his Abruzzi relative’s Yan-
kee marriage intentions. Things have come to
such a pass these days with effete old Yurrup’s
dynamite-harassed sovereigns that family con-
nections with a.mighty democracy aren’t undesir-
able. Moreover, the Duke’s chances of becoming
king are far from bright. There is a Crown
Prince (Prince Humbert); and the Count of Turin
and Duke d’Aosta, both of whom are married, have
prior claims to those of Australia’s acquaintance.
And finally there are precedents. The father of
the present Duke of Abruzzi (he was Amadeus
d’Aosta) married the Duchess of Cisterna, and
she, though not of royal blood, eventually as-
cended the Spanish throne. Again, the ex-
Empress Eugenie, Thomas Lipton’s friend, was
merely Miss Montijo—which was just a shade
better than being merely Mary Ann—when she
wedded Napoleon 111., and yet became a French
sovereign. These circumstances cut ice in huge
quantities. A precedent is a thing that is
regarded with as much awe by a king as by
a stipendiary magistrate.
Mrs. Arthur McArthur, the regally handsome
dame who steamed from these shores eight or nine
months ago to place her two sons at school in the
land their ancestor brought N.S.W.’s original
sheep from, is having a gay old time—in fact,
several of them. (Please don’t write to say that
McArthur got his merinoes from S’Africa—he
didn’t send for those till a year or two after-
wards.) Mrs. McArthur consorts with nothing
but duchesses, and moreover selects her
duchesses carefully and well. Herein she shows
wisdom. It is hard for the travelling Australian
Society women to be too meticulously careful these
days in her choice of British duchesses. The
’Ome strawberry leaf is a wilting piece of vegeta-
tion afflicted all too often with the fruit-fly of the
Probate, Divorce and Admiralty Division; and
the even deadlier Codlin Moth of the Insolvency
Court hovers over it with ominous persistence.
Miss “Pattie” Mort is on her way to Buenos
Aires, in which fair spot she will be united to the
Zezza di Zapponeta personage who won her maiden
heart. The reason for all this travelling resides in
the fact that Baron Zezza has achieved “an
appointment ” (vague, albeit rather magnificent
phrase) in Argentina ; and proposes to hang on to
the same till things financial in the foreign noble-
man line begin to look a thought brighter.
Zezza is deemed by his people a gay and
winsome lad, wherefore they are delighted
to know he is going to settle down as
near Home, Mother and the Hearth as Buenos
Aires. A friend, a member of the famous Colonna
family (it boasted in the good old days of mediaeval
Italy—before Governments grew squeamish and
middle-class, and instituted nonsensical anti-
murder laws—some of the most effective poisoners
in Europe) got Zezza the job, and hopes to good-
ness he will keep it. Mrs, Spottiswoode—she was
out here in her maiden days, staying with the
Rawsons—accompanies Miss Mort to South
America, and will see the hitching well and truly
executed.
A few days ago Miss Clarissa Fiaschi, daughter
of the well-known Sydney doctor of that ilk, was
married in Italy to an indigenous Marquis with a
hind name which reads like a cross between the
emblazonment on an ice-cream chariot and a King-
street fruit baron’s cry of wrath. The family had
been anticipating the news for some time. Miss
Fiasehi’s pre-matrimonialstory was aromantic one.
She was engaged originally to a tall, fair youth
named Mumin—a son of the great champagne
house. The fact that Mumm, junr., was under-
stood to be the owner of a castle containing
either 700 or 7,000,000 windows rendered him an
object of veneration to the Best People here-
abouts during his stay in Sydney. With scant
warning, young Mumm took ill, and shortly
afterwards shuffled off this mortal overcoat of
flesh. It then turned out that he had left a con-
siderable proportion of the ancestral windows, etc.,
to his bereaved fiancfie. For months and months
she remained inconsolable. She rented a large flat
in Maequarie-street, hired a staff of servitors, and
there abode, brooding upon her exceedingly sor-
rowful lot. There came a day when she decided
to gather together her traps and hie her to
Italy. It was a fortunate decision and day.
At one of the first entertainments she patronised
(it was a mummer entertainment, as it chanced)
her Marquis loomed up. .From that moment till
he won her marriage-consent, the Marquis—a
more than usually pertinacious nobleman—never
ceased to loom on every possible occasion. Con-
stant looming softens the heart. He now has his
charming and many-windowed reward.
The consternation of the melomanics (who had
booked seats for Kubelik’s first night) when they
heard that the Marama and the fiddler would not
be up to date was piteous. They poured into
Paling’s like plungers shooting a chute, and de-
clared that they must have the same seats they
had booked on what would have been the second
concert date. It was suggestive of Edward Vll.’s
coronation—the one that didn’t come off—when a
friend of mine heard one newsboy say to another,
“Good G—, Bill! To-morrer’s postponed!”
The accurate British bleat has a market value.
A girl who came here a while ago from the Old,
Cold Country was eagerly taken as governess by
one of our Very Best Families, “ because she had
such a correct English accent.” Australians who
have met the imported party assert that her pro-
nunciation and intonation make for such “correct-
ness” as to render her almost unintelligible to them.
The virulent form of English-as-she-is-racked is not
often the disease of the English born and
bred. It mostly attacks the visitor to England—
the Australian who has spent a few weeks
or a few years there has it quite badly at times. It
is these persons who come back fairly exuding
“Heah” and “Naice,” just as another lot of
people who visit the U.S. A. come back with what is
called the American accent laid on in flakes. But
the English accent’s the thing ! Put your foot
through the Decalogue in several places, but so
long as you deny the charge in a cultured bleat
you’ll be—well, perhaps you won’t be believed,
but the denial will be much admired all the same.
Departers by the Rome included Mrs. Barbara
Baynton, and by the Runic on Friday went Miss
Eva Champion, the Maoriland contralto. Mrs.
Quesnel, Percy Grainger’s aunt, went in the same
vessel as her pupil.
A ten-year-old girl, little- Peggy O’Connor,
daughter of Mr. P. O’Connor, and niece of Mr.
Daniel of the name, has started out on the inky
way. In some of the weeklies in this State she
has done some surprising work—for a child.
Miss Gladys Alpen, who has been with one of
J.O.W.’s opera companies for the last year, isgoing
to Europe and study presently. A concert on a
“ hugeous”, scale is being arranged for her on
June 6in the Town Hall. The young lady
inherits her music from her German father, who
has for years been music master to the public
schools of this State.
A correspondent:—
Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Donnelly, of Waratah, celebrated
their ruby wedding at Waratah on 2nd May, and ap-
pear to be going strong for their golden anniversary.
Mr. Donnelly was a member of the Legislature in the
middle ’sixties, and after the attempted assassination of
the Duke of Edinburgh some crazy individuals sought to
identify him and his father-in-law, the late William
Cuming's, who represented East Macquarie, as being
the right and left hands of the famous Kiama Ghost.
They were closely watched for some time, and an excuse
was made to strike Mr. Donnelly from the Commission of
the Peace, although he was subsequently reinstated.
Public life bad left a nasty taste in his mouth by that
time, and he never attempted, to re-enter it. Old Billy
Cumings, on the other hand, stuck to his guns until
the railway materialised over the Blue Mountains—a work
for which he had fought strenuously during many years.
Two Sydney girls have achieved a minor great-
ness, which is more satisfactory than having great-
ness thrust upon them. Miss Dorothy Wiles, of
the Fort-street Model School, and Miss Myrtle
Brown, of Newtown, have won Lord Meath’s
Challenge Cup and money prizes for the School
Competition essays on Empire Day. Competition
was open to schools throughout the Empire, so
the youngsters have some excuse if they experi-
ence several spasms of gratified ambition and
intellectual pride. Prizes were a silver challenge
cup, valued at ten guineas, and personal prize
of five guineas each.
Concerning Florence Young’s frocks in “ The
Merry Widow ” : One is a black filet net over gold
net lined with pale grey chiffon satin. A little
bolero and front panel of gold makemoreauriferous
this dream dress, and a great mass of trailing gold
roses clamber on the underskirt, whilst emerald
green decorates outlying portions of skirt
and underskirt. Another lovely frock for
the same artiste is a grey-blue with cut steel
decorations. But it is the cloak that “ goes with ”
the black and gold gown that takes the peacock.
The designer just took a long piece of what the
trade calls “ cashmere satin ” —emerald green—
and nipped up three reefs on one side of it to hang
down at the back like three little hoods ; tethered
a gold tassel to each point, and two gold cords at
the alleged neck whereby it may be held on —and
behold the dream was in flower.
A story of a vestal and her Roman soldier-lover
is being told nightly in pictures at West’s
Theatrescope at the Town Hall. Rosamunda and
Ethelinda, of the domestic staff of a Point Piper
household, threw a new light upon ancient
classical romance whilst they witnessed the idyll,
and I listened to the new light, which was a loud
light with a threepenny feather in its hat. A
young Roman maiden (according to the gospel of
West’s pictures) is in love with a young Roman
swashbuckler. He is about nine feet high, and
wears the usual classical tea-pot-and-he-fowl
kind of helmet. Evidently he goes off to the
war (the pictures hurry a bit too fast) without
asking her, “Will you when I come back—that is,
if I come back ? ” She, in desperation, rushes off
to the temple of Vesta and becomes a vestal.
Her raiment as a priestess is about as heavy as a
shroud of mist, and displays as much of her great
natural resources as the astounded Sydney public
recently beheld through the drapings of the princi-
Eal women in “ The Lady Dandies.” The war
as evidently been brought to a triumphal Roman
conclusion (in eight seconds), and General
Horatius returns with his lovely petticoats, and
headpiece quite fresh.
The vestals are strewing roses in his path,
when, “with a start of mutual recognition,” as
we would say in journalese, the General and the
Girl meet. Before you could say “ Lars Porsena, ”
the guilty pair have agreed to meet again. Hist !
They meet (this is the third time I have said
meet) three seconds later at midnight. Nine-
foot Horatius flickers into her quarters in
the vestry or the vestibule (or whatever
name Vesta’s fane was called), like Gaston
Mervale into Madge Mclntosh’s dream-cubicle
in “The Midnight Wedding,” only with
more courtesy and less overcoat. He is busy
kissing her, and she forgets the sacred fire and it
goes out. (She has the broadest jaws I ever saw
outside the act of gnawing bones on a mat.)
Then the alarm is raised, and in rush the long-
bearded Pontiff, the priests and slaves and guards.
The girl is dragged out of sight—but Horatius
draws his sword and fights like Hareourt Beatty.
He mows down guards and slaves, and escapes.
In the next flicker the Pontiff and a large and
representative gathering of-Roman Society is com-
fortably burying the vestal alive, when Vesta
works a miracle to prove the girl’s innocence.
She rekindles her sacred fire just as General
Horatius comes on the scene with a lot of gallants,
all prepared to “deal it out ” to the long-bearded
chief undertaker. After that all is joy, con-
gratulations, and sitting on one chair.
About Rosamunda and Ethelinda. —Ethelinda :
“But why should she keep the fire burning?”
Rosamunda: “ To keep herself from freezing, of
course. Just look at the way she was dressed.
And Rome is fearfully cold in the winter—all
snow and ice. My last place lived there, and used
to tell me about it.”
Amongst departers for London by the Miltiades
next Friday will be Mr. Harry Tighe, a son of the
late Mr. A. A. P. Tighe, of Tighe’s Hill, Newcastle.
Said A. A. P. Tighe was, for a brief space (less
than one month in fact), Postmaster-General of
this State. Son Harry, who fades away to northern
latitudes, has given a good account of himself in
the literary circles of the Old World, and has
just sold the Australian rights of his last book (an
Australian yarn) to a Sydney publisher.
The Sydney hunting season opened the other
day. There is but one pack of hounds in the Ma
State, and it is qualified to hunt no more elusive
prey than a red-herring steeped in asafoetida.
The chase occurs at fixed intervals during the
winter months, causing considerable disturbance
and diversion in and around the jungles and
forests of Parramatta. The same old hounds and
hunters have been shuffled somewhat, and are now
known collectively as the Cumberland Club,
instead of the Sydney Hunt Club, as was the case
in former years. A new huntsman’s cottage and
kennels have been secured at North Parramatta,
and one J. M. Dunlop—a dauntless horseman—
will be Master. Members sally forth in quest of
their insurance moneys on Saturdays, and occa-
sionally on Wednesdays, regardless of the suicide
clause in the foolish old policy.
Two most decorative circumstances in Sydney
these early winter, purple-misty days are Flag-
Lieutenant Fisher and the Palace Theatre drop
curtain. The latter, of course, has been a long
time with us, but I never found a worthy match for
it until the new man came with the Poores to
Admiralty House. He is a young man with
Mount Morgan on his uniform, the diplomat’s
mouth and eyes, and a you-mav-broil-me-at-the-
stake - but - I’ll- never-gi ve-away-the-secrets-of-the-
Imperial-navy expression. And the concealed
artfulness with which he backs up Lady Poore’s
artful steering of the Garden Party and dance
elements ! F. L. Fisher is a valuable addition to
Sydney’s fine water frontage.
In July the Royal North Shore Hospital will be
the objective of a novel frisk, to be given in the
Mosman Town Hall. Instead of the usual ball,
which has rolled annually for five years, the com-
mittee has decided to have a progressive Euchre
and Bridge evening, to be followed next day by a
Children’s Ball. Mrs. R. Arthur is President of
the Committee, Mrs. Mayoress Leahy is Vice-P.,
Mrs. Vallentine and Mrs. Cooksey are lion, secs.,
and Mrs. Alec Thomson is treasurer.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :
Sad and thorny are the paths the vice-regal fnit
must tread. Our Governoress has opened two drea
sales of work this week, and has also attended to sever!
mothers’ meetings and kindergarten rallies and suet
like baby enterprises. She departed to Southnon
at the week-end to recover her breath, and to bring honT
the family, but that was merely by way of fortifying he 7
self against more dull, brown labors to come *La r
Thursday evening the Mayor and Mayoress, together with
the Chief Justice, the retiring Celia, and a host of
“ others ” (as the Society columns say), dined at the State
Government shelter. His Ex. broke away from th
madding crowd, and spent a happy and careless week-end
with the Lumley Hills at Bellevue. He is said to have
been bumped considerably on the way up per motor but
he arrived happy though bruised.
This week has been one solid sea of dentists at
play. (The toothsmiths call themselves “ odontologists ”
but that doesn’t make the deep-rooted back stump come
out any more easily.) Dr. Magnus and his happy
missus are up here from your own city; the doctor
is to deliver a series of clinical displays (interspersedwith
golf, lunches and dinners) at the newly-founded Dental
Hospital. As the Magnus family largely entertained the
Queensland delegates to the recent Sydney conference
Brisbane is doing its little best to return chop for chop'
The festivities culminated on Friday in a dinner at the
cafd with the unpronouncable name that sounds like a
large Polish family falling down stairs.
My heart bled for Railway Commissioner Thallon last
week. He is off on holiday, and was swamped with
presentations. There is nothing more pathetic than affairs
of this sort, even when, as in his case, the affection is
genuine, so to speak. The man that makes the gift looks
as miserable as if he had just received a long sentence
without the option, and the recipient looks as uncom-
fortable as if he were inventing a plausible explanation
and offering" it to an inor dulous wife. Before Mr. and
Mrs. Thallon left for Canada, they had to undergo ordeals
calculated to undermine the nerves of a traction engine.
First, the male of the pair was called upon to receive at the
hands of the railway men a testimonial, a travelling bag
and an address, while such trifles as fitted cases and gold-
mounted field glasses were showered upon his wife and
son. Later the citizens came along with a purse of
£5OO, a highly ornate address, and a jewel for Mrs.
Thallon, combined with a party in the Exhibition
Gardens. The guest, who had previously returned the
railway men’s cash, to be used in the ambulance fund,
pocketed that of the citizens without turning ahiir, and
the address without enthusiasm, for he has about enough
of them to paper his house with by now. Mrs. Thallon
“ just loved ” her diamond and tourmaline pendant, so
she said. Next day 7 saw the now almost frantic Commis-
sioner getting another send-off at Parliament House and
letters of introduction from His Ex. His admirers pur-
sued him td Pinkenba, and only left him on the very
g"ang-plank of the Manuka.
There was another onslaught of Dervishes at the Exhi-
bition Grounds on Saturday evening, and once again did
they slay with vengeful force our noble defenders. Later
they were themselves destroyed by an avenging army,
and ambulance men, gunners, and bluejackets all took a
hand. All this took place in aid of the Fallen Soldiers’
Memorial Fund, and about 6000 persons paid three six-
pences and looked on.
It is something to have seen Celia Ghiloni nervous.
Brisbane found the lady in an embarrassed state and fry-
ing in her own blushes at the closing of the musical
comedy season at His Majesty’s on Friday evening. After
persistent calls for Mr. Bracy, that gentleman led the
popular actress out in front to say good-bye. The big,
fair Madame' Michu shook visibly beneath the fire of
applause, and nervously gathered up her gown in one
hand as she stammered her thanks and promised to come
back “ soon.”
Yours Affectionately, AKENEHI.


, t
#
0
WITH THE
J
' * . • *
A
*•
/
«£?* .
*
t
m
V .
• f
J I
I
/ w
R
r.":
-
<^~3k
k
**• ~,tv
<w
! 4r
KEMP’S
PATENT
SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
BLACK,
RED and
BLUE.
IS NOT AN OIL, AND WILL
NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
CASES containing two 4-gallon Tins
4s. Gallon ; or eight 1-gallon Tins
4s. 6d. Gallon.
AGENTS IN MELBOURNE- (Dalgety (Sb Co. Ltd.)
„ ~ SYDNEY <E. Rich (Sb Co. Ltd.)
„ ADELAIDE (D. (D. J. Fowler* Ltd.)
„ „ KINGSTON. S.A. (Dalgety (Sb Co. Ltd.)
.. „ BRISBANE (E. Rich. (Sb Co. Ltd.)
AGENTS IN ROCKHAMPTON (Dalgety (Sb Co. Ltd.)
~ TOWNSVILLE (Dalgety (Sb Co. Ltd.)
». ». FREMANTLE (Dalgety (Eb Co. Ltd.)
** •> HOBART (Wm. Crosby (Eb Co.)
>• .. LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell & Co. Ltd.).


p The
Right
Corset
at
*
&
(elebrafaj
i£BBTW£>
<kUp
J
fitter
Makes all
thediffei
ence. The
stout
w Oman
sighs as
she beholds
the lissom
long-waisted
woman, vet
the “ P.O.’
Corset
will add
length t o
her own
w a i s t —at
the same
time make
it more
s 1 e n d er—
giving her
the long
sloping hip- •
line. The
“P.D.” will
produce all the
desired lines of trimness —slender waistedness
—the long hip and rounded bust. Thus the
over-stout woman (and the over-thin woman
too) will find satisfaction and pleasure in
every pair of “ P.D.” CORSETS.
All Drapers and Storekeepers.
Poems of Love, Life, and
Sentiment,
Being the Best Poems of ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.
A large Crown Bvo Volume of 150 pages, paper covers
Is. 6d., or attractively bound in Cloth Boards, 2s. 6d.,
Postage 3d.
T. C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
KS
\
*r.
Dunlop
Garden
Hose
Combines the necessary strength
to ensure Durability, and is
sufficiently pliable to prevent
cracking and bursting. A Hose
of the best quality and finish
that will give long service under
Australasian conditions. Un-
equal led for Garden and Stable use.
Stocked by all leading Stores.
Accept only “ Dunlop'Brands.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Auct. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
L Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.
tfe
*
flv
-
'Bushmans
1
TYRES
for
Hard Riding on Rough
Bush Tracks.
HARD TO PUNCTURE,
and HARD TO WEAR OUT.
Obtainable through any Cycle Agent, but
you must specify “Bushman's." Mads In 2
sixes : 28in. x IJln. and 28in. x t|ln. Sample
Section Posted on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER 00.
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, CbrUldWfb, N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 18, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik,—
The name of the lady of Cliveden still figures
largely on committees, charity-concert programmes
and the like, but in reality she is a close prisoner
to the hou§e, and some anxiety is felt regarding
her protracted illness. She is now forbidden to
deal with any business, a galling restriction to the
dowager, whose energies are not handicapped by
her weakness.
Notoriety still pursues Bill lies. Lately he was
acquitted on the charge of murdering Mrs. Madge
Graham —and right there he should have died out
of public memory. But no ! The Melbourne
press, denied the ineffable boon of recounting his
last sad moments on the drop, still disturbs his
seclusion. It states gravely that Bill—poor Bill !
—lately visited the hole where Mrs. Graham was
discovered, and that, for a few minutes, he gazed
eloquently into the depths. It now announces
that his reading has got into a chaotic mess,
wherefore he will have to decline a knighthood
until he has had leisure to go through the Aus-
tralian press reports of the murder and subsequent
happenings. Later on—who knows ?—he may be
thrust into an engagement —probably with a circus
or the waxworks. But what is the interest of
plain, commonplace Bill, anyhow ? What is there
curious or fantastic about him ? Has he a cork
leg, an artificial liver, or green pants, or what?
Carrie Moore is the moment’s theme in Mel-
bourne. The booking office for “The Merry
Widow” ran crazy after the first hour of the on-
slaught of hungry coupon-holders. Every seat in
circle and stalls and back circle and half-back
stalls was snapped up, and the army that wears
white shirt-front and bare shoulders to the theatre
wailed in vain to five-shilling-book the gallery
seats, where the lemonade bottles rattle and the
pie is eaten between acts. So Saturday night saw
a full glow of first-night dazzle, and the name of
Sassiety that wasn’t there was Earth mixed with
Water. Mr. and Mrs. Williamson and Mrs.
Tallis were in their box.
The gaud Mayor shone from the centre circle,
and his Mayoress shed a wide benediction of lilac
rustle and silk. All the new brides were dotted
about in their span new wedding dresses, suggest-
ing a debutantes’ set of lancers. Mrs. Stephens
accented her whiteness with a scarlet cloth coat,
and Mrs. Woverington added a jealous-looking
green head-chook to her bridal attire. Muriel
Gumming and her Attached-One beamed from a
e >rner. The Raleighs are back again. There
was a purple glimpse of a woolly Macleod,
and the youthful silver heads of the two Railway
Taits shone in the stalls. Heads showed mostly
the epidemic of tassel —heavy bullion, gold a,nd
silver, dashed on blonde and black and Titian
with a Midas-like recklessness.
Carrie Moore has kept all her old audacity,
and has clothed it with a subtlety that turns her
into a very witch. It was a demure Sonia who
entered to the excited whispers of the bee-like
black-and-white men of the posters ; a demure
Carrie bowing to the mad applause of the house ;
a demure Widow who thawed and warmed and
flashed and sparkled till the moment of the mad
waltz that rings down the curtain of the first act.
The opera runs on this waltz as on a thin silver
wire ; dreamy or burlesqued, fantastic or madly
passionate—-the waltz twists in and out like a
shadow. Carrie’s dresses are wonderful things—
soft and clingy and droopy—Grecian simplicity
of line married to a fantasy of exotic materials.
The frockery of the whole thing is fine. Elorrie
Young reaches a gorgeousness of soft coloring,
and as for the background of Jo-Jo, Lo-Lo, Fro-
Fro and company—their Frer.chiness is under-
mining to Woman’s dress-burdened heart.
The ballet apparently searched the inner heart
of things and got soft baby colors—tender tints
that haven’t grown up—and the management
considerately gave them “ Maxims ” to dance in.
“Maxims” in Paris has been copied to the least-
liest line, a subdued, severe color scheme that
would drive anyone to devilry.
The new baritone jumped at one bound on to
the altar before which the matinee girl bows
down in worship. The young man was suffering
from a “ temperature,” on the opening night, I
believe, and did not let his 60-horse power voice
“ go.” But his subdued warble was highly artistic.
At the finale, the audience threw him a
wreath of blue gum leaves, which he fingered
curiously, while Carrie tried to sign to him to
sniff; then, being busy with her own nursery-
garden load, she left him to discover what his new
laurels were for.
Carrie entreated and implored Williamson to
come down and speechify. The curtain went up
ten times before he descended. The harp by that
time had gone to bed, and the “ after-boys ’’ were
slamming-up the seats ; but the gallery wouldn’t
budge. Then Carrie Moore dragged her manager
on and shook him heartily by the hand.
Fate and the booking-clerk played a pretty game
with the seats at “The Merry Widow.” Two
Councillors and their wives were booked unknow-
ingly together. The dames have passed the pecking
stage to the Wild dare that speaks the angry
mind. They swept in like 100-ton yachts at full
sail, coiffured heads erect and noses tip-tilted,
and, from opposite sides their flunkeys shepherded
the two to seats —side by side. The frigidity of a
Polar depression set in on the moment, and the
meekly-following husbands were silently and
furiously forced to seat themselves as an inade-
quate wall of separation.
I am told that the Alston Wallaces, whilst in
the midst of high revelling at the Ritz Hotel,
learned that their best motor car had been burnt
to the last screw. Of their three cars, to have the
best wrecked was indeed sorrow. The lady’s
comment through her sighs was, “And so many
women in Tooralc will be glad” ! Giving that
simple exquisite pleasure to her sisters hurt her
more than the loss. The couple go back to
London in May.
Lovie Mueller’s frocks and frills for the Kubelik
tour were the talk of all Anglo-Australians in
London when the last mail left. The big, jolly Ben-
digonian is now long and curvey, and does the
Piccadilly two-step with the best.
“ The Democracy of Poetry” was a paper read
by the Rev. Charles Strong at the general meeting
of The Australian Literature Society at Fur-
long’s rooms on Thursday last. The Warden of
the University, Tay Pay Mclnerney, took the
chair, and moved a vote of thanks, “as
it was the most original and intellectual paper
he had ever heard.”'
The great country mansion that Matthew
Davies built for himself in the days of the Boom
and the Glory has at last been sold. A bank has
had the elephant on its hands for many years,
and has spent a fortune in caretaker’s
wages and sundries. Matthew built the
stupendous place regardless of expense, and
panelled it with costly imported woods. There
are better-looking woods to be found in Queens-
land, but there was a garishness about the idea of
imported panelling which appealed to the spirit
of a period when a man could start 12 banks all off
his own bat, so to speak.
Going forth into the wilderness where ear-wigs
not eremites dwell, for picnicking purposes
t’other day, I browsed on a recent International
Review which had an article by Kathleen Pritch-
ard on “ Art in Australia.” She said that the bril-
liancy of Norman Lindsay’s genius directed local
limners and scribes towards the proper goal.
Also, she described the tiny assemblage which
registered itself as “The Australian Literature
Society,” and which sits in semi-darkness in the
Royal Arcade, as a herd of local Parnassians, who
browse on the bush-growth of local verse and
other literary salads, to the infinite benefit of
Australian writers in general. The Melbourne
Literature Society she arraigned as a classically
inclined coterie which hung to the tail of a grey
Pegasus ridden by great dead ’uns. As far as I
know, this latter society meets infrequently, and
when it does, a man with a silvery fringe of great
length recites excerpts from “The Egoist,” and
waggles the tail of his evening coat in vain emula-
tion of Mrs. Mountstuart Jenkins.
Contrary to the friendly rumors that subscrip-
tions are to be returned and his series of concerts
abandoned, Prof. Beard gives his second matinee
on June 20th. He is going to conduct two new
masterpieces—one a rhapsody of Dvorak ; the
other the “Finlandia” symphony of Libelius.
This latter is said to be a work of passionate genius
and clever orchestration. The northern com-
posers, headed by Libelius, offer new wonders to
the music-lover. After a long course of Wag-
nerian voluptuousness, and classic intellectuality,
and philosophy which struggles to express itself
through the medium of a stave, the melodies flung
at us from near the Arctic Circle strike with a
sting at our souls. They’re poignant, beautiful.
The Luke divorce commanded a couple of hours
attention from the Judge in Disentanglement, and
about ten minutes from the general public. And
as the suit was undefended, a decree nisi was the
natural result. The tertium quid in the affair was
the family’s groom until he commenced to offer
his arm to his master’s wife in public, and dis-
pute with that quiet gentleman his precedence
in the matron’s affections. After that exposition
of exaggerated equality, he doffed his livery for a
divorce suit. The lady will pursue a theatrical
career.
Apropos Vaffaire Luke : it’s interesting to note
the sort of animal the general public is. The
Wallace divorce, wherein the woman made a brave
effort to save her good name, occupied about two-
thirds of the G.P.’s mind for its 26 days’ hearing,
and the following nine days. Mrs. Wallace was
canvassed variously as a picturesque fiend and a
persecuted angel. The Luke case concerns equally
well-known people, and an equally handsome
woman. But she, not bothering to put up a
defence, is left with no worse wounds than a loss
of alimony. And the G.P., after reading a short
paragraph to that effect, leaves her alone and
doesn’t throw more than a pebble in her direction.
By the Mooltan, Mrs. Evie Muret McEvoy and
her bulky lord return. The lady brings along a
holdfu! of marvellous gowns, and a headful of
most interesting gossip. By the same vehicle the
Jack Wallaces return. Mrs. Jack boasts of seven-
teen new hats, each one more ruedelapaixian than
the other ; also an additional stone of avoirdupois.
The Una Bourne-Kyffin Thomas concertlet
occurs on May 27th. Everyone adores the simple
Una’s music, and so many like the slender
musician that she can always be sure of a full
auditorium.
Mr. Charles Saunders, a fat man with a fat
voice and a pleasingly plump, soft-warbling wife,
has been giving recitals of song and chat.
A much-discussed mythical scandal has grown
out of nothing and flourished mightily in a favor-
able atmosphere. It alleged a schoolgirl and
schoolboy elopement. Cold facts show the rumor
to be baseless, and Girleen is touring with mamma
and sister, heart-free and unattached. She sends
weepful messages to her uncles and her cousins
and her aunts because of queries and pointed
javelins that come from her dearest chums.
There have been, it is said, excited doings at
the Alexandra Club. The rush of Melbourne’s
smartest women down Collins-street after a recent
indignation meeting caused the revelations ; with
angry heads down they were mooing excitedly
like a herd of wild-eyed Lincoln reds. In spite of
club secrecy, snorts of rage and atoms of fact
escape. At the genesis of the club the subscrip-
tion was a modest golden guinea, with £2 for
entrance fee, but as tone and exclusiveness grew,
the subscription grew also, and reached five
guineas. It is a proprietary club, and there were
occasional calls for new furniture and other decor-
ative stuff. The riot came over a half-guinea call
by the proprietor. Now the club has taken
new rooms in Flinders-street, and what is going
to happen to the Collins-street rooms and the
club name isn’t quite clear.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The death of Charles Kingston cast-a dark, deep gloom
over this tram city last week, for, although he had his
goodly share of enemies, most people had the grace to
admire the man who had spent both health and fortune
for his country. He was given a State funeral, and
everybody who was anybody, including the Governor and
Prime Minister and hundreds of local and inter-State
celebrities, were there. It was the longest funeral seen
in this city for many a long year, and when the hearse
was abreast of Government House the end carriages had
not left Archer-street, North Adelaide, a distance of
several miles. Mr. Kingston was buried (amid torrents of
rain that somehow seemed suitable) in the family vault,
which had only been opened a few days before to receive
the remains of his sister. The vault was completely
smothered in flowers.
Fiddler Eugene Alderman joined noises with his chum,
pianist William Silver, on May 8, and provided some
goodly melody at the Town Hall. His two or three years
abroad have done marvels for the young fiddler, and his
audience —an ultra-musical one—arose and hurled its
appreciation at him in strenuous tones. He has a quiet
and unaffected manner, also great power and excellent
technique. And the occult and initiated agree that he
can give points in the wielding of his meowsical instru-
ment to any violinist South Oss has seen for some time.
The two seraphim were inundated with beauteous vege-
table offerings, and bore the infliction cheerfully.
Adelaide has always been obsessed with the joy of pulling
its garden up by the roots, and can’t be taught to see the
eternal unfitness of the thing when the recipient is a
sane-haired he-perforiner.
Adelaide has a permanent grudge against that Latin
gentleman named Pluvius for his conduct on Oup Day.
It was the champion wet day of the century, and frocks
and frills were distinctly off. Hardly any shes ventured
away from the domestic hearth, and those who did had to
swim through rivers and seas of mud, and came home
with their best poultry feathers looking sadly out of re-
pair. The lawns were a dank and dreary morass, punctu-
ated by much shivering man a d a tailor-made girl or so.
And Adelaide had to put its best chiffons back into their
glass-case, unworn, unhonored and unsung.
A just-announced engagement is that of Miss Jacobs
(one of the pretty S. J. Jacobs girls) and her cousin,
barrister Jacobs, of Melbourne. This is the fourth
daughter who has married into the same family. Another
joining of cousins will be that of Miss Hay (daughter of
the late Alex. Hay) and the Edmund Gosses’ eldest son.
Eden will breathe in July.
The next hymeneal sacrifice will occasion some stir at
St. Peter’s, Glenelg, on Tuesday, 26th. The parties to
the transaction are Miss Minna Gebhardt and Mr. Fiddler
Heinicke, of the Conservatoire.
The University Ball will be the first to roll this season,
and great is expected to be the rolling thereof. The
frilly throng is due to gyrate on the 29th, at the Elder
Hali. Any number of pretty flappers are getting their
hair and frocks in train for the occasion. Messrs. Mac-
lennon and W. K. Bakewell join forces to secretary the
affair.
A gay little spree of the week was a young people’s
dance, given by the Alex. Buchanans at their jolly house
at Hyde Park. It was to celebrate the birthday of the
one daughter, a charming damsel still in the short-
frocked stage.
That sweet young nightingale, Gladys Edwards, who
has been polishing up her trills in the land of Edward
Kex, has just been made an Associate of the Royal Col-
lege of Music, and will now wear A.R.C.M. after her
name. As she only left for Britain one short year ago,
this is rather an achievement, besides being a whole
ostrich in the headgear of her former teacher, Miss Hack,
of the Conservatoire.
South Australian artist Hayley Lever, now dwelling at
St. Ives, Cornwall, which is situated in that selection
called England, has been chosen a member of the Royal
Society of British Artists. There were a hundred candi-
dates, and he was elected among the first three. His
exhibits were “ Landing Fish ” and “ The Bay at Even-
tide,” and the president of the society, Mr. Alfred East,
A.R.A. (and half the alphabet), shook Hayley by his
paint hook, and said that the works were good.
There is boundless excitement in Adelaide ! Twenty
horses and a plough are churning up our streets for the
electric trams.
Died last week, Mrs. Sarah Tilly, who came to South
Oss in 1836 in the Buffalo, which also brought Governor
Hindmarsh, the man who stood under a gumtree at
Glenelg, and announced that the territory thereabouts
was duly taken possession of on his Sovereign Lord
William’s behalf.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
As to Cardinal Logue’s cabled statements
that Australia is on the verge of rebellion against
Britain, a handy test of the truth is the fact that
this year Australia has, without bargaining and
without any concession in return, given to Great
Britain tariff preferences worth some millions a
year.
Though the financial scheme proposed by
Prime Minister Deakin and Lyne was shrieked
at by every State Premier (certainly, S. Aus. only
shrieked in moderation), nobody but Bent so
much as suggested an alternative scheme. Bent’s
scheme wasn’t, of course, Bent’s ; it was the work
of Michael Minogue, Accountant to the Treasury,
and admittedly a man of large capacity in the
financial way. Deakin and Lyne’s “ shadow ”in
the business was G. T. Allen, Treasurer’s secre-
tary, who is worth the same adjectives as Minogue.
“ D ” is beguiled out of coin :
Struck an original brand of tapper last week—original
as to manner if not method. And since in the tapping
game manner mak.vth money invariably, I fell to him
humiliatingly. He was decently clothed, the owner of
spectacles (behind which gleamed a pair of compelling
green eyes), and of a wide gracious smile like a ravine in
a water-melon. He bailed me up outside a Macquarie-street
Club, and with extreme fluency plunged into his personal
history thuswise : “ Yool pardon me makin’ bold, sir,
but ye see in me a British emigrant nooly arrived on the
Soovic. Fruiu good ole Surry I ’ail, and orl this weery
munth I’ve been trampin the ’ard Cold streets in search
uv lionist toil. Troo it is they speak the mother tongue
year, but the mother 'Art— if I may use the term—is
sadly wantin’.”
I stopped him with a feeble query as to what it all had
to do with me He looked painedl.v surprised, and said,
with an effective break in his round, fruity voice,
“ Excuse the liberty, sir, but am I not addressin’ an
Englishman?” I replied “No,” with decision. Fora
moment he was as one countered in argument. Then he
made his recovery. It was a fine effort. His eyeskindled ;
he squared his shoulders gallantly. Said he : “If not an
Englishman I am addressin’ I ’ope—nay, know, a Man.” A
frenzied idea crossed my mind that I would assure him I
was a woman in disguise, but ere I could speak he was
into his stride again : “ Yus ; four long and weery weeks
’ave I been in the colonies—self, namely, the dear wife and
the little children. Work I harsk on every side,
work, fer Gord’s sake, gimme work ; but they
’aven’t got it—none, that is ter say, .that a man
in delicate ’elth kin take on. And wot’s the result?
Wot is it? Why, the result is that yer see me now
abserlootly, as it wur, at poverty point.” To my shame
be it said, I here dammed further speech with coin of the
realm. He took it with the deftly simulated air of
astounded gratitude that one notes in the lady star of the
busking or other theatrical show when the bouquet she
has ordered the same afternoon is passed up. Nor was
this surprising, for indeed he, like the lady, was some
thing of an artist.
Just as this issue was going to press, there
flew in the news that the High Court had knnoUa
out New South Wales’ disgraceful <£2
against the Commonwealth for paying 5
small gratuity to the dependents of 1
deceased N.S.W. postal official after •»
years’ service, whereby the amount of Federal
surplus coming to N.S.W. was diminished bv
a few pounds. N.S.W. has already got more
Federal surplus than it was legally en
titled to, and the awful conduct of its
State Government in trying to get tlii-
small crust out of the mouths of »
family whose breadwinner had served the
State for 24 years, and all Australia for three
years, was an unutterable disgrace. The event
happened five years ago, too, and was aged
history. All the five Judges were agreed, and
N.S.W. gets the wretched dirty advertisement
and the bill for Costs.
London Pall Mall Gazette mentions a
few of the “prominent Britons” who “cheered
Mr. Asquith, the great protagonist of Freetrade
in the United Kingdom,” when he rose to speak
at a recent Hotel Cecil dinner, given in his honor'
Mr. L. Bamberger, Mr. P. L. Cohen, Mr. August Colin
Mr. F. J. de Guingand, Mr. F. Dupre, Mr. A. P. Durlacher’
Mr. Majc Fontheini, Mr. E. Goldstein, Mr. H. H. Haldeni
stein, Mr. C. Hamfeldt, Mr. F. W. Hecht, Mr. G. Hoefke
Mr. E. Koopman, Mr. A. Lewisohn, Mr. Lindenberg, Mr'
S. F. Mendl, Mr. Metz, Mr. Sinn Oppenheimer, Mr. 6. F
Pfeifer, Mr. Isaac Seligman, Mr. Otto Strauss, Mr. S
Terachi, Mr. O. van Biema, etc., etc.
It begins-to seem as if even the Freetrade move-
ment were imported.


Oif££il*LAND
Hat form
G=-
m
*er
J
't, > -x-
» 1
*
& > ?n :
J
i >t
H
*
»
<X
=N
.
:■■■
5*
BURKE
wesToN
LEAVING THE SOUTH FOR
THE SUNNY NORTH.
Queensland is the Winter
Paradise of Australia.
The Tourists* Ideal Trip in Winter is
to go aboard the Mail Train at .Sydney
or Melbourne, and waKe up in Sunny
Queensland.
Write to the Queensland Railway
Department, Brisbane, for full particulars.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON
♦BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE
'BRISBANE and CHARTERS TOWERS
"BRISBANE and CAIRNS
&G O
IO O
12 O
14 5
9 15
IO IO
IO I 7
♦lncluding' Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
0000000


THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITT, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity
Average wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water .
CAUTION.
Note the name «Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER. and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Pari
of the Label.
For Closer Settlement
ST. AUBIN’S ESTATE,
SCONE.
FOR SALE BY AUCTION at the
Oddfellows* Hall, Scone,
on
Tuesday, May 26, 19D8
at 12.30 p.m.,
On account of Mr. W. BAKEWELL.
This Estate, the pick of the Hunter River Valley, surrounds the flourishing and scenically
beautiful Municipality of Scone, and is surrounded by uniquely beautiful scenery, fringed
by rich basaltic ridges and hills, and capped by wooded mountains, and is picturesque in the
extreme. The Land is of unexcelled richness, with variety of soil, beauty of aspect, and an
ideal climate. The a.verage rainfall is about 26 inches. The soil is Rich Black and Chocolate.
HERE IS LAND FOR. THE LUCERNE GROWER,
FOR. THE WHEAT AND MAIZE GROWER.,
FOR THE MIXED CROP FARMER,
FOR THE VITICULTURIST,
FOR THE DAIRYMAN,
FOR THE WOO EG ROWER.
The Estate Has 8 Miles of Frontage to the Great Northern
Railway, and Scone and ParKville Railway Stations
are on the Estate.
Every Block is within 1J mile of a Railway station. The Estate is only about 75 miles
from Maitland, 100 miles from the City of Newcastle, and 200 miles from the City of
Sydney, and is only 7 miles from Aberdeen, the most up-to-date Meat, Butter, and Bacon
Factory in the State.
No. 1 Subdivision comprises 70 Blocks, ranging from 8 to 400 Acres. Splendid Agri-
cultural Land, with Rich Black and Chocolate Soil. Much of it is under cultivation, and
nearly all is ready for the plough.
No. 2 Subdivision comprises 16 Blocks, ranging from 40 to 1360 A.cres, comprising
Cultivation Land and Grazing Land of high carrying capacity, most of it with a double
frontage to Glen Creek, all scrubbed, clean country, of high carrying capacity.
No. 3 Subdivision comprises 109 4-Acre Town Lots, and 27 Farm Blocks, from 1 to 39
Acres. ALL LUCERNE LAND.
The whole of this magnificent Estate is highly improved, has no noxious
weeds or rabbits, and is well watered.
Lithographs are now Ready, and can be obtained from the Auctioneers or from
the Vendor. Intending purchasers will be driven over the Estate,
Auctioneers: Messrs. F. A. SIMPSON & CO., Messrs. EDWARD HIGGENS,
PARKINSON & CO., in conjunction with Messrs. SNAPE & CO., ROWLAND
and DODDS, NORMAN EBSWORTH, and H. H. BROWN, of Paterson.
Solicitors : Messrs. ANDREWS, MOSELEY, and MANNING, Moork Street, City.
KSSr:
ESBMOQOS
L;
EW
R
A/A
WINCHESTER
B 1 ck Powder Shotgun Cartridges I
The important points in a shotgun cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFOR#
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
£
CL
a
NLUARDSM
ISE-MOME •
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to be placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Writs for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCK.<&Co.
420 GEORGE ST SYDNEY .
AND
mtuimm?
MELBOURNE.
OUR LATEST MODEL.
THE ...
‘REGENT’
Graph-o-
Phone.
PRICE
£5 10s.
Exactly as
Illustrated.
This Model has a
Tone Quality
equal to the high-
est-priced Machine.
Send for full particulars and lists
of Records.
Columbia Phonograph Co.,
Gen'L,
255 Clarence Street. Sydney.
£Jh
lAyl
-as*
COLUMBIA 10-inch
DISC RECORDS
(New Process),
2/6 each.
BEST QUALITY
NEEDLES, ty-
per box, con-
taining 300.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A plaint conies from South Africa re the arrival
there of cases of fruit which had been condemned in Aus-
tralia under the provisions of the Commerce Act. The
cases had been marked “unsound” by the official in-
spectors, but some swindling representative of Private
Enterprise had calmly erased “ un,” and the fruit arrived
at its destination marked “ sound.” The Customs De
partment is trying to get to the bottom of this barefaced
fraud, but it ought to know better than give the dodsrv
commercial gang a chance like that. When fruit or
other produce is condemned, the cases should be sten-
cilled all over : “ Condemned. Dashed Blanky Bad
Rotten. Unfit for Crows to Eat. Hopeless. Only good
for Fertiliser.” These remarks would be difficult to
plane off, and the exporter would have to buy a new
box.
* * * *
“John ”: A little motor experience is a dangerous
thing. Two years ago I bought a single-cylinder, two-
seater, 8 h.p. runabout, and by the end of four months
the mania had me by the hair. I got tired of being con-
tinually passed on the road, so I sold and invested in a
two-cylinder, four-seater, 10-12 h.p. Another six months
saw me again dissatisfied and anxious to sell. When I
had converted the smell-producer into cash I paused and
looked round. I decided to make a splash. I
bought a four-cylinder, five-seater, 15-20 h.p. car
with a profusion of lamps, a hood, a musical horn'
a clock, a speedometer, and about 764 sundries
and patent notions. The whole outfit tipped the
scales at 1J ton. For three months I ran over dogs
played hymns on the musical horn, and generally con!
sidered I was just It. Then, one day, a back tyre blew
out with a sound like the furious Frank and fiery Hun
shouting at Hohenlinden in their sulphurous canopy;
and I made the discovery that I needed a new set of
tyres. A £65 bill appeared at the end of the month for
those tyres, added to three months’ petrol and repairs!
This made me think some. The same day a friend asked
how much the car cost to run, and, as I didn’t know I
began to think some more. That night I sat down to get
at the facts. I reduced the matter to cold figures. The
car cost £B5O, and I estimated its value in five years
would be £250. So I put down, “ depreciation, £l2O per
annum.” Interest on a reducing scale at 5 per cent, on
capital outlay averaged £3O. Tyres, petrol, lubrication
and sundries accounted for £260. Total cost of running
per annum, £410! That was £8 a week, and my salary
was £lO ! There I had the motor lunacy reduced to a
plain business proposition. I saw it to be a game for
millionaires and maniacs. I came out of that investiga-
tion a sane and sobered man, determined that in future a
push bike would meet my needs. I drove straight to a
newspaper office to put in an ad., and all the way the
four-cylinders chugged the refrain, “ Car For Sale.
Cheap. Apply 1 Fool,’ Star Office.”
* * * *
“Bon”: I mean to travel with the guard in
future. Was one of a crowd in a race “ express” crawling
back from an up-country meeting. Time was passing as
slowly as the mile posts, so one of the party proposed a
game of nap. Had lost quite enough backing seconds
to satisfy my liking for games of chance, so de-
clined an invitation to join in. My example was
followed by my window-side companion. This sur-
prised me, as he had been laying down the
law on card games. He explained in a whisper:
“ Three of ’em are plain rooks. Besides, they don’t hold
half-a-sov. amongst ’em. Watch the old sport stack
’em.” The stacking was too cleverly veiled for me, but it
came to light thusly. After several hands the ancient
one dealt. The first two passed, the third went three,
while the dealer allowed he’d go four. “ Get ’em ! ”
quoth his next neighbor, saying as he played a rag on the
king that was laid down, “ S’truth, Ikey ! why don’t yer
go nap? ” Taken off his guard, Ikey retorted, “ How th’
’ell can a cove go nap when Blinker’s got ther ace?”
The only man who wasn’t a rook threw a portman-
teau with bad aim. It was only a baby brawl
till one of the crew stood on the fingers of a strange and
ticketless bird of passage hiding under the seat. He was
promptly and bitterly bitten for his pains. The stranger
emerged, and smote all and sundry. In the subsequent
dust-up I lost a month’s laundry receipt and a poem
addressed “To Phyllis,” contained in a wallet. As Phyllis
and the papers had alike rejected the poem, it didn’t
count much, but I’m almost positive that it was the
window-sider (the man who warned me) who went
through my pockets during the brief excitement.
MEDITATIONS ON A PAWN TICKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let carrion conspire to damn my name,
The rocky roadway to enduring fame
I have explored, and I have paid the cost,
For one by one my chattels I have tossed
Unto the bandits who in ambush lurk,
And thrive so very well who seldom work.
Assistant porters agitate my hand,
And find me cushioned seat, nor make demand
Of cash, for in the pocket of my vest
I hold the passport to the regions blest.
For this, my badge of pride, I sniff disdain
On lazy men who failed to catch the train,
Who, groping for some priceless collar-stud,
Their passage lost, but found a deal of mud.
With much placidity I gaze afar
On one who, in his snorting motor-car,
Shutters the sunshine from his goggled face,
And strives to emulate my aerial pace.
For well I know how he is handicapped,
And drugged and stiffened and in luxury lapped.
And most profoundly do I guess his ire
When large tin-tacks rise up to burst his tyre ;
Or when some guardian of celestial order
Disputes his right to scorch across the border.
And so, because I sit on Fortune’s knee,
I call the guard ; he with humility
Takes of my orders due delivery
That I (I mention pain and penalty
And special care for men like Carnegie)
Must not at any cost disturbed be.
I lodge complaint, for that there is a draught
Somewhere. I smite the man and vow him daft,
And bid him draw the blind, cover my shanks;
Ail this he does, and so, to earn his thanks,
I give him twopence ; he forgets his scars,
And sings my praises to the blushing stars.
And now, to ponder o’er my present state,
I give me up to calmly cogitate.
My old friends, Crabbe and Dryden, I have pawned-
The gods know best, and often I have yawned
Their leaves among, and sought for louder lays
That voiced the tumult of existing days.
What of it ? Is it not made manifest
That he who seeks the Muses with full zest
Shall be the coal of his own altar fire,
Or come to buying furniture on hire?
Why quarrel with the gods ? Are they not good
Who hand us bills-of-fare for special food?
If all is “ off,” there is no need to question
Or search the plate for germs of indigestion.
Yon strutting merchant, who, with bellied girth,
Shadows the children’s portion of the earth
In long obeisance to his goddess, Pelf,
First pawned his principles, and then himself ;
And that his body pledge was little worth,
Aspires to pawn the country of his birth.
Victor, a speck of sunshine, now does flit,
And “ Hamer,” of the meditative wit—
And, maybe, “ Kodak ” one day joins the Throng
Where bailiffs never interrupt the song.
I, too, shall live on stews empyrean,
And so I scorch to heights Olympian,
Holding within the hollow of my hand
The precious passport to the Glory Land.
TAS.
THE GHOST


Representing Australia at the
Franco-British Exhibition.
ifm
"■'V
%
&JM
>£%?*****
,V-
-•taWj&sy
.
J "
'
■
• ; S"
m-v**' V<oK^'
.
ssS&sgSSss!
. •■& •>
'"•■ mm
’:■ > f'-
The piano from which this drawing was made is a
BEALE AUSTRALIAN FULL CONCERT-GRAND,
and was, like all Beale Australian Pianos, made entirely in Australia.
The whole of the Cabinet-Work, every detail of it, was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The whole of the iron frame and all other iron Castings were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The whole of the sounding-board was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
All the bronze, gunmetal, brass and aluminium castings were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
All the SCrew-StudS; action-bolts and nuts were made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The pedals, even, were made entirely in our factories in Australia.
The whole of the keyboard was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The ball-bearing castors was made entirely in our own factories in Australia.
All the carvings were executed by hand, entirely in our own factories in Australia, from our own original designs.
The tuning-system was invented by us in Australia, and patented throughout the world.
The wrest-pins were invented by, patented, and are all made by us entirely in our own factories in Australia.
The improved hinges for the top (whereby a moulding maybe had on all four sides, an impossibility with imported pianos) were designed and made
entirely in our factories in Australia.
The S3ale was calculated and drawn out on plan entirely in our own factories in Australia. This is by far the most difficult and technical item in
piano manufacture.
Australian pig-iron, copper, and other metals are used in this instrument. A special Australian glue (which, after long experience of both, we find
superior to imported) is also used.
The veneer-presses and other apparatus used in the manufacture of the instrument were made by us entirely in our own factories in Australia.
No less than six different machines, automatic and semi-automatic, used in making the patent wrest-pins, drilling the patent iron wrest-plank, making
the agraffe-studs, making the screw-studs, action-bolts, and nuts, were designed and made by us in our own factories in Australia.
The above is a categorical statement of the details of our pianos which we make in our own factories. We deliberately assert that no other piano
manufacturer or piano manufacturers in the world accomplish such a wide range of work.
The only part of the above instrument which was not made entirely in our own factories is the action (the mechanism which causes the hammers to
strike the strings when the keys are played on). Action-making is a separate trade, and the mechanism of this piano was made by the action-maker
acknowledged to be the best in the world, whose actions are found in all the best instruments. The style used by us is his very latest double-repetition.
The only details not already mentioned are the wood-screws, and the steel and copper wire. Inasmuch as these are not yet made in Australia,
Nettlefold’s screws are used by us, and the wire was imported; but, even then, the copper wire was wound on to the steel in our own factories, on machines
designed and made by us.
As to the tone of our piano, no words can adequately express its wonderful charm, coupled with its unequalled volume, purity and sweetness. It must
be heard to be properly appreciated.
A DUPLICATE OF THE ABOVE PIANO IS NOW ON EXHIBITION AT OUR SHOW ROOMS, AT
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A. ; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE .
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The meeting between Bandits and Corinthians
was easily the star struggle of Sydney hockeydom on
Saturday‘last. It was an interesting scrap, inasmuch
as Bandits had won their three previous matches, and
Corinthians were generally admitted to be worthy of the
practical championship of the past season. The game
started with a surprise, for Bandit Makinson took the
ball from the bully-off, and, charging through single-
handed, side-stepped the Corinthians in a marvellous
manner, keeping the ball under perfect control all the
while. Before the backs could fall on him, he sent it
flashing between the posts, the prettiest goal ever seen
on Gladesville ground. When the staggered Co-
rinthians had got their wind again, they made
a few remarks, bullied off, and let loose
one of those rapid and yet perfectly ordered charges,
with the ball playing lightly to and fro across their rush-
ing front, that have made the Corinthians so terrible
when they are properly going. But the Bandits swooped
down in a line also, and, securing the ball, sent the Corin-
thian forwards back, and tried to smother the backs with
their own men, while they passed away to the wing. But
the Corinthian backs came charging through the
melee, leaving the forwards to recover themselves
as best they could, and pressed home a counter
attack. Right in front of the goal posts, Wat-
kins, the Bandit who can’t be bustled, played a game
that was beautiful to see. He broke up that Corinthian
charge on his own, and drove the leather back almost to
mid-field, where his forwards again got going, and once
more threatened the champions’ line. Again and again
the Corinthian captain let loose charges th-.t seemed
impossible to stop, but when all others were passed, Wat-
kins would intercept, and with a mighty drive relieve.
It was not till right on half time that the Corinthians got
past him and equalised the scores. After the interval, the
Bandits, realising that the best defence against those pass-
ing rushes was to be the attacking force, played a marvel-
lously swift and forcing game, and again they scored. Then
Corinthians galloped over them and equalised. The speed
began to tell on the Bandits. Their attacks fell off, and
the noise of their gasping was like the footsteps of many
crabs on the seashore. Then the Corinthians exclaimed,
like Cromwell at Dunbar, “ The Loard hath given them
into our fist, begob!” Three successive charges each
added a goal, and then Watkins let himself go. He
blocked with his legs, he smote with his club, he became
a whirling dervish and a howling tornado. All the same,
when the whistle went the Corinthians had won by five
to two. # .
Out at Waverlev Oval, Pilgrims I M by fast and
determined rushes, downed Sydneians I. by seven to one.
Sydneians put up a great fight, but the Pilgrim combina-
tion was too keen, and the bright individual players ot
the Svdneians withered out under the weight of combined
rushes. The Fleet plays better hockey than football, and
out at Parramatta the bluejackets smashed up Barbarians
I. by one goal to nil. Both sides played splendid hockey.
The Corinthian B team playing against University I. made
a great recovery, and turned what seemed a bad defeat
into a draw, with four goals each.
* * * *
With four different brands raging simultane-
ously, football in Sydney is getting out of hand so far as
the press is concerned. Saturday last saw no less than
15 first-grade matches played, and to adequately report
them all is no longer possible. The weather, considerably
cooler than the previous Saturday, was much more favor-
able to players. In the League division the scrap of the
day was that between Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney
—both teeming nurseries of mighty ’bailers. From the
kick-off East charged right down to the Southern line,
where the Southern backs fell on the leather, and with a
succession of rushes and scrums, carried it right back to
the Eastern line. There, in the midst of a Homeric
struggle, the Southern captain piled on his whole avail-
able weight and pushed it over. The shot failed. South tried
another passing rush, hut right on the line the Eastern
men wrenched the ball away, and scragging through, the
whole mass went rolling down the field again, right to
the Southern line. In vain the Southern men tried to
head off the Easterners. That charge was irresistible, and
the teams swept over the line, forward Brackenrigg
adding the points. South came again with a series of
charges, and kept East on the defensive. The Eastern
men struggled desperately to get possession, but the
South was too quick, and in Rugby of any sort
the defending side plays a losing game. Charge
after charge failed, but right on half-time
South burst through, and scored another three,
the shot at goal failing. Resuming with a lead of one
point, South tried the same tactics. But what wind
there was was dead against it, and in the absence, of
Messenger the sides were so nicely balanced that the wind
was an important factor. One splendid five-man charge,
however, broke the Eastern line, and again South lost the
winning points bv failing to kick the goal. Then East
pulled itself together, got the leather, and tried a few
charges on its own account. East won by 13 points to 12.
For the rest, Balmain and Newtown drew with
13 points each, after a game that was exciting enough.
Glebe crushed Western Suburbs with 25 points to eight;
while Newcastle stamped Cumberland flat, jumping on it
to the tune of 37 points to nil. Eastern Suburbs and
Glebe are in the front rank with six points each, North
and South Sydney have four each, Balmain has three,
Newcastle two, and Newtown one. Cumberland and
Western Suburbs are nil.
**. * *
In the Union competition, University and
South Sydney are running neck and neck, with 10 points
each. Close behind, Eastern Suburbs and Newtown are
together with eight each, Glebe with six, Balmain five,
Sydney four, Manly—the and St.
George, Western Suburbs, and North Sydney two each.
University team is a fine organisation this season. . It
plays with machine-like precision, and the captain’s
instructions, roared in dog Greek or slum Latin, are
obeyed implicitly. South Sydney is also more efficient
than ever, and charges with rushes that resemble stam-
pedes of bulls in their forcefulness. Glebe, so far, has
had shocking luck, but it is getting its tail up, and
on Saturday it fell on Western Suburbs, and hanged it by
17 to nil. University put in a pleasant afternoon running
over Sydney, which simply lay down, and the score was
34 to three. The surprise of the day was the savage
attack made hv Manly on North Sydney. From start to
finish the Villagers had the Hillmen fairly beaten,
and they gave no respite till the whistle blew the
sign to cease shooting, and Manly rushed from the field
to whoop that it had at last won a match, and won it
with the comfortable margin of eight points to nil. It
was no snap victory, and the surf-bathers earned their
victory over the hill-climbers.
* * * *
In the Soccer competition for the Rawson Cup
Glebe and Balmain head the list with five points each.
Fyrmont, Garden Island (lately The Despised), Sydney and
Ultimo have four points each, Rozelle and Western
Suburbs two each, and Northern Suburbs is roosting in
its nest. This upheaval of Garden Island is quite amaz-
ing. It has soored 11 goals, beating Glebe and Balmain,
which head the list, by one and seven respectively.
» * * ♦
Pyrmont, the premier club last year, which had
such a struggle to heat Garden Island last week, was this
Saturday flattened out by Glebe, last year’s runner-up,
by five goals to three. In the first half the champions
held their own, but in the second Glebe got some
excellent combined work in, and simply overwhelmed the
premiers. In the match against Sydney District, Garden
Island men showed good form and splendid tactics. At
the opening, Sydney held its opponent cheap, and waded
in to polish the navy men off in an artistic manner. The
attack was repulsed, the repulse followed up, and the
goal secured. Before Sydney recovered from its amaze-
ment, the naval men got a great rush on, and when the
Sydneyites swarmed down to defend their goal it
was too late. The navals had scored again. Then
Sydney attacked with homicide in its eye. The
struggling bluejackets were overwhelmed, and Syd-
ney made its first score. The first half ended with
the bluejackets leading by two to one. In the second
half the Sydneyites once more assumed the aggressive,
but were out-generalled, and three times the naval
counter-attack was rewarded with goals. The |Sydney
charges were all blocked by a defence that showed that
the naval men are not going to be at the bottom of the
list this season. They have learned the game, and
learned it thoroughly. The Rozelle victory over Northern
Suburbs was its first this season, and as Northern
Suburbs is the baby club, Rozelle could hardly lose.
* * * *
The fact that the All Blacks wrecked Queens-
land by 34 to 12 suggests that the Bananalandershave not
yet mastered the details of the new Rugby. Judging b>
the meagre accounts to hand, the Queenslanders played a
brilliant individual game—with the usual results. The
Maorilanders were often enough pushed back into their
own territory, but combined sweeps not only recovered
the lost ground but raked in tries and goals, and the end
of individualism was, as right through history—disaster.
In the Australian League competition interest
centred on the meeting of East Sydney and Redfern,
both of which had so far been unbeaten this season. The
result was a fine game. Australian football is something
akin to human chess, and these two clubs gave a great
exposition of the finer points of the business. So closely
were they matched that when the final quarter com-
menced there was only a difference of seven points,
which difference was promptly wiped out, and a few
minutes before time the teams were dead equal. A
splendid finish saw Redfern win out by picking up those
points again, the final score being 36 to 29. Newtown
beat Sydney bv 49 to 17, which was light compared to the
disaster Y.M.O.A. inflicted on Paddington, the figures
being 89 to 31.
* * * *
Saturday’s Vic. League football saw Carlton
maintain its prestige and establish itself as the only unde-
feated team so far. Essendon was the latest victim, by
5 goals 13 behinds to 4 goals 8 behinds. The “ same old ”
had defeated “ Saints ” the week before with comparative
ease, and its supporters “kidded themselves” on a repeti-
tion of the operation, but the old Blue-and-Whites proved
too strong in defence, besides having acquired a couple of
forwards who were equal to, if not better than, those they
displaced. Still, the others put up a great battle, and are
evidently a team to be reckoned with. The game was
more stubborn than brilliant, though there was no
stoush prevalent. A more one-sided but prettier game
was that between “Saints” and “South.’ The latter
team bullocked away like 18 devils, and furiously strove
to carry the day by main force, but, being up against an
equally weighty team with vastly more science, found all
striving vain and a mere waste of energy. “Saints” at
present approach nearest to the old Oollingwood
“system,” their high marking, followed by concerted
play, being pretty and effective. South’s first defeat
this season was considerable—26 points to St. Hilda’s
65. The rising ’Roy eighteen discussed matters in
academical fashion with Richmond, and held their
own all the way through the debate, finishing with 11
goals 14 behinds to 7 goals 13 behinds. Here, and at South
Melbourne, competent umpires, who promise to make
good presently, kept the players in order and got away
unharmed, though the Southern supervisor narrowly es-
caped damage at'the close of the proceedings. The Mel-
bourne men proceeded to Geelong, whence by all the
laws of logic they should have returned with their tails
drooping dejectedly ; instead they passed a handy thrash-
ing to the seasiders, by 72 points to 50. ’Wood met
’Varsity on the East Melbourne ground and flattered its
supporters immensely by piling up 31 points to two in
the first quarter (there was no wind); but after that the
big men from the colleges—there are four of them over
6ft. —bogged in to some purpose, and steadily reduced the
deficit, ending up 7 goals 12 behinds to ’Wood’s 8 goals 14
behinds.
* * » *
During the week the League delegates met and
branded themselves asses by deciding that their disqualifi-
cation of sundry ill-regulated players at the latter end of
last season was ultra vires and of no effect, and that the
said players had beenstanding down unnecessarily, and
because they, the delegates, didn’t know their own rules.
It appears that the hasty’bailers had been “reported”
by the committees of the competing clubs—Carlton and
South—whereas by the rules the only person competent
to report was the umpire. At the inquiry the umpire
said he had not observed any rough play—though almost
everyone else had seen it—and was of opinion he had been
assisting at a charmingly courteous and extra-polite
episode, and the only report he had to make
concerned the peaceful nature of the atmosphere,
or something to that effect. So the League, having
carefully re-read its rules, lifted the disqualifications.
The League then considered the case of one Taylor.
Taylor was disqualified by the Wednesday League, a while
back, for rough play, and appealed to the Vic. League.
The Wednesday League refused to submit any evidence
until Taylor had lodged its recognised appeal-fee of £1
Is., whereupon the Vic. League, which has no rule about
appeal fees, refused the Wednesday body’s request for
affiliation, and carelessly left Taylor where he w T as before.
Meanwhile that enterprising individual, who was also
disqualified by the Association away back in ’Ol,
has applied to it for re-instatement, and his case
is to be considered by the Association next week.
He is a persistent player, this Taylor ; also a hefty one ; but
he seems to have bad luck. Having settled this moment-
ous matter, the League informed the Bendigo and
Ballarat branches that their practice of replacing players
injured during the progress of a match was illegal under
the rules of the Australasian Football Council, and that
as long as they continued doing so they weren’t play-
ing Australian football, but merely a harmless little
amusement of their own. Having issued this dictum, and
being quite sure it was sound in wind and limb, copper-
plated, unbreakable, and duly inspected by Government
experts, the League rested from its labors.
In the Association, the pure amateurs of Essen-
don—late Essendon Town—encountered their toughest
proposition so far in the “brickies” of Brunswick.
Latter put up a great struggle and held their own for a
while, but experience and science beat them badly in the
end, the board showing Essendon 87 to Brunswick’s 52.
The lamentable “ Ports ” and the almost equally regret-
table “ North ” bogged in at the Glue Pot, as the North
Melbourne reserve is called, to the accompaniment
of much “ blime.” North scored its first win
bv 46 points to 40. Ports still boast the undesir-
able “duck.” Brighton and Williamstown pro-
vided a pretty encounter at the seaside ground,
former playing decent football and threatening to win at
three-quarter time, when the scores were 6 goals 10 be-
hinds to 3 goals 9 behinds, but in the failing light of the
last term (the game didn’t finish till six)’Town carried
matters much as it pleased, and the record was 8 goals
10 behinds to Brighton’s 6 goals 11 behinds. There are
rumors that the proceedings during the last quarter are
to be investigated ; but a much more desirable inquiry
would bejnto the awful incompetence of Tait’s railways.
It is asserted that at least once in the last two seasons a
football “ special ” to Geelong arrived on time, but a
department that can’t run a trifling suburban special
from Brunswick to Prahran or from Williamstown to
Brighton without losing half-an-hour on the way, ought
to go out of the business and take up bullock-driving or
fishing. Prahran encountered Footscray and taught it
something it knew before but hadn’t properly digested,
i.e., that ill-regulated bogging-in is a fraud and a thing of
naught when opposed to concerted, systematic play, even
though the players can’t kick as straight as they should.
Tally—P’ran, 55; ’Scray, 41. The negligible Preston
passed a licking to the more ditto Northcote by 91 to 45.
’Cote threatens to beat North Melbourne’s last year’s
record of playing half the season without skirmishing up
a solitary win.
» * * »
The most practically important result of the
win of Wolverhampton in the English Cup will be one
that would hardly occur to Australian footballers. It
will enable the club to buy a new team ! While the men
now playing have, with splendid pluck and a lot of luck,
gone unbeaten through the few short, sharp shocks that
decide an English Cup, they are probably not the
strongest team in the country by at least 25 places.
Simultaneously with their successes, they have been losing
ordinary matches to quite ordinary clubs. Their keen
ambition is to finish the season as first or second in the
League’s second division. That would mean their going
back into the first division, where they used to belong ;
but they are quite unable to get higher than about, Bth.
So now, with the thousands of pounds the Cup semi-final
and final must have brought them, their secretary will go
to Scotland or elsewhere, and buy the finest players in
the market. Next season the.v will be worth watching—
and then probably, by the irony of Fate, they' will be
thrown out of the English Cup in an early round, as was
Manchester, the strongest team in the country, this
year.
J * * * *
Adelaide Cup, on the wettest day on local re-
cord, was won unexpectedly by Destinist, a six-year old
belonging to Loftus Moorhouse, a local stockbroker. The
180 J people who fancied him got a totalisator dividend of
£l3 14s. each for their pound. Destinist is a grey, also he
is chiefly a hurdle racer. He carried Bst. 41b. Enchanted
States was a long length behind, but the cheerful local
custom of two dividends gave his backers £llBs. apiece.
Dyed Garments just failed to get anything—except 50
sovs. for third,place. He carried (including a penalty)
9st. lib. nominally, but actually about a ton of mud, as
he got away last, and was splashed all through the
journey'. Consequently’ Painted Clothes hadn’t much of
a chance.
* *■ » *
Adelaide Cup furnished evidence that form is
nearly' as unreliable as most other things connected with
horse racing. Dyed Garments’ second in the Elder
Stakes, a few days before, demonstrated that he had his
recent Sydney Cup form with him, and nothing seemed
to have better prospects; y'et six-y 7 ear-old gelding
Destinist, unplaced in Elder Stakes and Goodwood Handi-
cap the same day', won, with The Enchanted States
second, and Dy'ed Garments third. Destinist finished
second in Onkaparinga Cup on Easter Monday, and beat
a big field in Adelaide Tatt.’s Cup on April 25. Two years
ago Destinist was sold for 265g5. to put over jumps. Few
nags have come on so rapidly. He only began racing
2£ years back, and that fact no doubt helped him
materially.
* * * *
Nine months of the current Australian racing
year expired on 30th ult., and to then Grafton’s progeny
topped the list of winners ; 66 of them had gathered 153
events worth £18,760, which is over £4OOO short of what
the Graftons scooped last year. Twenty-four of Wallace’s
get appropriated 55 races, and their loot totalled
£17,831, considerably over twice as much as the haul
credited to the same sire throughout the preceding 12
months.
* * *. *
Mr. “Jim” Brennan, owner of Scotland, Pen-
dant, Istria, Malt Queen, etc., who for years ran the
popular Sydney National Sporting Club (now the much
more profitable National Amphitheatre), has stretched
out further and gathered up the richly-pastured and
watered Woodlands estate, of 1750 acres, near Muswell-
brook (N.S.W.). He is intent upon establishing a stud
farm. In Pendant, Istria, and Beresina he has three
exceptionally speedy mares to start with.
* * * *
R. Ramage, up on Little Mary, winner of
recently run W.A.T.C. Rockingham Stakes, was a suc-
cessful jockey as far back as 1887.^
When Harry James started back to Melbourne
from Svdney, he took the Dunlop-shod Talbot car, with
three ladies aboard, down the South Coast, through Bega,
and over bridle-tracks and imitation roads to Kosciusko.
The attempt on Kosciusko was a mad effort, as the winter
had begun. But James delights in mad adventures. He
could not get to the top owing to the slush and grease ;
the car swayed and slipped about till it seemed it must
go over the side and roll down into the ravines. After
getting about three parts of the way up, even James had
to admit that he was beaten right out, and he slithered
back to his base. Then he made the wildest, maddest at-
tempt ever made in Australia. He started out
over snow-clad mountains, where the snow was still
falling, for Kiandra, and battled over 50 miles
of white coverlet lying in places feet deep.
There’s not a dog-chain to be got in the district
now for love or money : James bought them all to wind
round his wheels to prevent skidding and to get a grip.
But even then he and the three ladies had to haul the car
up snow drifts with ropes, and, after herculean efforts,
they finished up by getting stuck in the Eucumbene
River. The girls went on through the weather, and
brought back horses and assistants, and eventually the
car arrived at Kiandra. Car and tyres stood the strain
splendidly, and seemed none the worse after being washed
down.
* * * *
“*Quan ” : Referring to the Motor-Hog, The
Bulletin says (7/5/’08): “What is badly needed is a
system of numbering and registration so that offending
drivers can be got at.” Such a system is now in opera-
tion in Brisbane. Clauses recently added to the Traffic
Act Regulations provide that before being let loose in
public, the Hog must have his registered number painted
in plain, red figures, at least sin. high and 2in. wide, with-
out flourishes or frills, on a white ground, on a conspicu-
ous part of the back of his buzzing smell-flier ; and that
the nocturnal animal of the House of Pork must carry, in
addition to the usual lamps, a tail light which shall shine
upon the aforesaid plain, red figures so as to reveal them
clearly.
* •* * *
The Australian Military Board has approved of,
and drafted regulations for, the establishment of an Aus-
tralian Volunteer Automobile Corps, which will consist of
officers only—majors, captains and lieutenants—who must
be capable drivers and the owners of efficient motor-cars.
The uniform is to be khaki cap, tunic, breeches and leg-
gings. The members can wear any shade of boots they
like —as the boots will not be seen. The corps is to be
purely volunteer, and the only subsidy from the Defence
Department will consist of petrol for parade and drill
purposes. Presumably the idea is to utilise the cars for
dispatch and scouting work. But The Bulletin believes
that in a few years, or after the first big campaign
in which one side uses motor-cars, the jugger-
naut will develop into the actual fighting machine.
Imagine the effect on an ordinary army of the charge
of about 100 armored motor-cars, carrying machine
artillery and magazine-rifle men 1 The first intimation that
the fighting motor has arrived in deadly earnest will be a
brief cable upon the opening of hostilities, that the in-
vading force of 70,000 men was attacked and utterly
routed by a brigade of 1500 fighting motors, which, at-
tacking it on three sides, enclosed it in a ring of fire from
which only a few scorched remnants managed to crawl
away unobserved. And then the military nation will find
itself committed to a policy of building great squadrons
of fighting cars, as well as fleets of 16,000-ton battleships,
and the strain will become unendurable.
* * * *
Talk about Juggernaut. A motorist was re-
cently charged in a Sydney police court with having
flown down Oxford-street at 60 miles an hour. An
amazing magistrate fined him £4. If the awful speed
was clearly proved, six months without the option
would have been lenient. But perhaps the magistrate
was so completely broken up at the imaginative powers
of the witnesses who estimated the velocity that he sort
of fell off his perch. Still even 20 miles an hour in Ox-
ford-street should be good for £25 fine and confiscation of
the car.
* * * *
S. R. Steelman, of Dunedin (M.L.), on a 3|-h.p.
motor cycle, put up a fine performance recently, when he
rode from Dunedin to Christchurch (265 miles), from
start to stop in 9hr. 49min., lowering the record by over
3hr. He was unfortunate in being delayed by a bad
spill, otherwise he would have covered the distance be
tween the two towns under railway time. His actual
riding time for the 265 miles was Bhr. 57min.— an average
of just on 30 miles an hour. The roads in many nlac«
were anything but first-class, a great part of the last Bft
miles having been allowed to get back to an unformed
state. The mail—or snail—train takes 9hr. Bmin to do
the journey, and the distance by rail is only 235 miles
30 miles less than by road.
* * • *
The sport which is nearest the grave just nowin
Maoriland is cycling. It hasn’t actually given up the
ghost, but it is in need of the services of a doctor and
nurse. Occasionally at gatherings of broken-xvinded
sprinters in the uncivilised backblox, hairy-legged country
youths urge decrepit ironmongery round "a ribbon of
asphalt, leaving the mile behind in about smin. 37sec
the first three criminals past the post being rewarded to
the extent of 10s., 55., and 2s. 6d. The fairly liberal
prizes of a few years back are no more ; the cycling clubs
are bankrupt, and a tired public wouldn’t pay
half-a-cent to see a crowd of scantily-garbed
lunatics tearing round a saucer in hasty pursuit of
eighteenpence. Even road racing has passed in
its checks, having been severely mauled by the police for
furious riding—although it should be stated that fully
nine-tenths of the competitors in an average race are
quite incapable of doing anything particularly furious
Track sprintimr will never be missed, but the death of
road racing is lamentable. It certainly deserves en-
couragement, for in countries like Australia and Maori-
land, Tom Larcombes and Jack Arnsts, who, travelling
alone and on ordinary bikes, can leave behind 20 solid
miles per hour, and go on doing it for about a week
would be of great service as despatch carriers and the like
in the event of war.
* * * *
Something like a blizzard of disappointment
sxx'ept over Sydney followers of motor boating on Satur-
day last, when George Whatmore’s hydroplane, Slippery
Dick, failed to materialise at the starting line for the
14-mile race for boats over 11-h.p. Still, the most disap-
pointed man of the crow'd xvas George Whatmore himself
—the boat was not finished. Fairbanks was also missing,
there being nobody available for the position of steers-
man, so the race settled down to a tussle between
the Australian boat Invincible and Mr. Smidmore’s
Cooee. The green boat conceded 17min. start, a big
handicap in a 14-mile run, but the result proved that
handicapper Macfarlane knew his business. Finishing
with a tremendous rush, Relph’s green masterpiece was
only beaten on the post by a margin of two seconds. The
way he lifted it through the water in his final spurt was a
sight worth going far to see. The Bulletin regrets
having to record the melancholy fact that, so far,
there is no word of Mort’s Dock building any 250-h.p.
flyer to sweep the Sydney waters and make the Australian
master of his own seas. And yet it ought to be apparent
to the great Dock that it would be the best possible
advertisement. The Motor Construction Department
practically owes its existence to the exploits of the In-
vincible, a boat that was built under great difficulties.
With the splendid plant now available at Woolwich, the
Dock could turn out a magnificent boat, a real howler,
which would break the hearts of all the Yankee ex-
porters, and prove to the world that, given a fair oppor-
tunity, the Australian can do as good work as any. And
patriotism pays sometimes.
* • * *
Roger Fitzhardinge, who stroked the victorious
N.S.W. eight-oar crew, is a creditable athlete. For years
he has been the crack Sydney Rowing Club oarsman, and
in bygone days he was mighty at lacrosse, while
previous to that he held the five-mile crosscountry
championship for a year. He also lost the mile champion-
ship by a bare six inches during one part of his career,
and that sort of defeat is just a shade less meritorious
than a win. The N.S.W. crew owes its success to the
trouble and hard language he expended licking it into
shape.
• * * *
Departed unobtrusively Bullwards, recently, by
the Oruba, N.S.W. distance runner Lynch. His objec-
tive is the laurel wreath that awaits the first man home
in the Marathon race. In private life Lynch is a tram-
driver, and the trip is the result of a joint effort by his
brother juggernauters and the East Sydney Harriers. It
is a significant fact, however, that the ticket was only a
single one, the strenuous athlete apparently depending
on the luck of the native-born to bring him back.
Although there has been nothing sensational in Lynch’s
performances, he is a stayer, and likely to hold his end up
where a more brilliant man would fail.
* * * *
' Melbourne ’Varsity and inter-Collegiate cham-
pionships, decided at the University Oval last week, pro-
vided some strenuous contests. The feature was the
broad jumping put up by Greenham, Lawton and ;<.
Four contestants cleared over 20ft., and John Lawton...
leaper of note hereabouts for several years, held the main
with 20ft. BJin. Then Greenham came to light with
20ft. llin„ and John exited. In the inter-Collegiate
contest Greenham went one better with 21ft. ljin.— he
waved his legs in the air and appeared to climb through
space. Lawton again played second fiddle, but he
annexed the tall jumps with sft. sin. His best is some-
thing like sft. Bfin. Amongst the peds A. M. Wilson
cleaned up the mile in 4min. 41 3-ssec., and the others
couldn’t get near enough to push him faster. Ormond
College copped an easy win with 66 points, Queen’s was
second (51), and Trinity third (37).
* * * *
Hackenscbmidt, writing friend Jim Beckett, of
Melbourne, threatens to invade Australia for repair pur-
poses, but as Hackey has declared so afore in many mis-
spelled efforts, this scribe will believe when he views the
massive form and feels the continent tip up.
* * * *
Clarence YVeber encounters Peter Bannon in a
return wrestling match, to occur on Monday, June Bth—
a daylight affair at Melbourne Saucer cycling track. As
Bannon, on his previous showing, has merely a feeble
chance of upending the big fellow, the contest is unneces-
sary, except as a money-getting affair.
The sculling fever in Maoriland is gradually
being stamped out, and Wanganui, still with traces o
whisky leaves in its hair, is going back to business, ine
lunacy has, however, only been pushed ahead, tor it
has been practically decided that champion Webb an
big Dick Arnst will battle for the honor and the pront
attaching thereto on Dec. 15.
One of many newspaper items re the
awakening of the British farmer :
Large meetings have recently been held in the hop
growing districts of Kent and Worcestershire in favor oi
a duty on foreign hops. Some strong evidence to
same effect is being brought before the Select Commit
on the Hop Industry. Mr. Edward le May, a member o
a well-known firm of hop factors, gave evidence on tne
subject last Tuesday. Unfair foreign competition ana
“ dumping,” he declared, were slowly but surely ■
ing the home grower. He advocated a duty of 4us. p
cwt. on imported hops, xvhich, he said, would seep
market free from the “ dumper,” but would not bar com
petition when prices were good.
THE GREATEST ORGAN IN THE
WORLD.
Most people think the greatest organ 1
world is m the Sydney Town Hall. > ,
ever, is not the case. The greatest organ is 0
in each of our own bodies, and is the •
When it gets out of order our whole systen
becomes deranged. We are dull and heavy,
life is a burden. The climate of Australia, ana
the tendency to over-eat and over-drink, ar -
principal causes of this great organ & e^ n ? /r
harmony with the rest of the system. Hr. ,
Indian Root Pills reach the liver as no otne
remedy does, opening the clogged ducts, cauws
the bile to flow, and aiding in the digestion
assimilation of food.


RUGELMANN’iS
©
©
&
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt c>y
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pur* Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
COMMISSIONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
FOR ADVANCES DEPARTMENT
(known as Credit Foncier).
Thirteenth
Issue of
Debentures for £lOO,OOO, at 3! per cent.
TO MATURE 31st OCTOBER, 1919,
To be issued under the authority of the Acts of Parliament
of Victoria, Nos. 11,81, 1722, 1778 and 1878.
CONDITIONS FOR. TENDERS.
Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’ Head Office, 29 Market Street, Melbourne, until noon on
Tuesday, 2nd June, 1908.
Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO, or £5OO, as may be desired.
Interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be payable half-yearly on 30th April and 31st October, the first such
payment being- due on 30th April, 1909, at the Commissioners’ Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
Any Tender below £9B per £lOO will not be entertained.
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash, or bv a Bank Draft payable to the Commissioners of
Savings Banks, amounting to 5 per cent, of the face value of the Debentures applied for, and if the Tender be
accepted in full, or pro rata , the balance must be paid on 30th November, 1908, or may be paid at any earlier date.
Interest at 3J per cent, per annum will be allowed on accepted Tenderers’ lodgments of 5 per cent, and over
from date of receipt to 31st October, 1908, and will be payable up to that date on the issue of the debentures.
Commission will be allowed only to Brokers who are members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate of
ten shillings per cent, on the face value of Debentures for accepted Tenders.
The due payment of these Debentures, and of all interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by
and the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 of Part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed by
the Government of Victoria.
Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected, and Conditions and Form of Tender can be obtained upon
application at the Head Office of the Commissioners or any of their Savings Banks.
9th May, 1908. By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*O*U*PS Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
'l* - ■
m
o
The Razor with the Keen Edge.
PLUM RAZORS are made with all the old-time skill of the
famous Sheffield cutlers. In the PLUM they have produced
a keen shaving- edge on a blade of pure silver steel that will
glide over the chin easily and comfortably every day in the
year.
PLUM RAZORS cost 10/6 Post Free Anywhere in the World.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
BOVRIL
Should be in every home as well as in every hospital.
When you are worried and cannot eat well nor sleep well, you will
find a great help in BO VEIL.
BEWARE OF CHEAP IMITATIONS.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
«*
YOUR FEET WILL SING THE PRAISES OF THE
ELECTRIC FOOT WARMERS
Very Comfortable and Healthy.
PROMOTE CIRCULATION.
Cure Nerve Troubles.
Tone up the Whole System.
Now only 3/6 per Pair.
PREVENT CRAMP
Avert Colds, Chills and
Rheumatism.
(Usual Price 5/6 per Pair)
VOU will never suffer from Cold Feet while you wear these Ktecfoip Insoles. Fit any
1 size boot or Hhoe. Comfortable even in a tight boot. Alternate plates of Copper and
Zinc generate a mild and pleasant form of electric energy that promotes the circulation
of the blood and thus tones up the entire system. Positively PREVENTS CRAMP, cures
Nerve Troubles, saves you from Colds and Chills and dispels Rheuipatic Pains. Reduced
to 3s. 6d. per Pair, and we pay carriage. Mention size of foot wheh ordering.
The UNION Go., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
TitE^Hw#
THE JUNE NUMBER is now in the press,
full of fine pictures, good stories, and
interesting articles.
Air-ships are “in the air” just now; our
Paris representative contributes a special illus-
trated article on the navigation of the air. France
is the centre of this, as it is of the automobile
industry, and the article will give a complete view
of the progress so far of aviation.
Miss Florence Young, the well-known prima
donna, writes on the Australian chorus girl;
Beatrix Tracy continues her “Explorations in
Industry” with “The Girl-in-Waiting ” ; Louis
Esson’s Asiatic Sketches are carried on. Other
vitally interesting articles are “The Australian
Salt Harvest,” “John Longstaff, Portrait
Painter,” “Australian Grand Opera! Why
Not?”, “Towards An Australian Drama,” and
“Mighty Hunting in Africa.”
“Memories of Papua,” by J. B. Higginson,
gives a picturesque account of our Australian
black Possession, which is now so much in the
public eye.
The stories, the verse, the pictures—about those
next week.
The (®«e Hand
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
There are six “ public” hospitals in Sydney, and
it is stated that last year they admitted 17,986 in-
patients, who cost a trifle less than £5 each, or a
total of £89,702. Of that amount, £52,332 was
contributed by the State Government, while only
£33,461 was “subscribed in various ways by the
public.” There was also a deficit of some £4OOO,
which the Government will sooner or later have
to liquidate, making its share of the up-keep 63
per cent, of the whole. The six hospitals claim to
have a total of 1000 beds in all, costing £7O per
bed, of which the Government finds £44 odd ;
nevertheless the State, which provides two-thirds
of the funds, leaves the management to Boards
elected by the subscribers, who find only the other
one-third. And, when it is all said and
done, the accommodation is pitifully inadequate.
In Paris, where the municipality takes
charge of the whole business, there is one bed to
every 183 of the population ; in Sydney, with only
1000 hospital beds all told, there is but one bed to
every 500 people. Actually, therefore, Sydney
maintains fewer hospital beds than it does pubs :
in the metropolitan area there were 1078 of the
latter at the last count, not to mention about 380
wine-shops. Yet, to judge by the clatter Hospital
Saturday makes, you might almost fancy Sydney
maintained, out of its own private pocket, a whole
hospital to every 500 people or so.
To get level with evaders of the dog
tax, the Parisian police employ men to bark at
the back gates of persons suspected of surrep-
titious bow-wows. A good barker commands a
very respectable salary.
The latest consumption remedy recom-
mended bv European medical men is the “Balloon
Cure.” It is argued that it would be cheaper to
spend an hour or two daily among the clouds in a
captive balloon than to go away and live in expen-
sive mountain hotels. A well-known tuberculosis
expert recently declared that balloon treatment
could be carried out with greater benefit to
patients than could be possibly attained in any
mountain resort. In a few minutes the patient
could be conveyed into an atmosphere where
neither vegetable nor mineral particles were pre-
sent —air which would be absolutely pure and free
from germs.
Missing Friends.
SIDDALL, trading as Mr.
SCOTT, thought to be in Australia or
California.
The relatives of the above are anxious to know
as to his whereabouts.
Will the person or persons able to give the de-
sired information kindly communicate with
MRS. MARY JANE HARGREAVES,
218 Wellington Street, Leeds, England.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 7.45.
Wednesday and Saturday Afternoons at 1.45.
THE GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT. MAY 23.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S DISTINGUISHED DRAMATIC
COMPANY, Headed by
Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH,
In the World-Renowned Detective Story,
SHIiRLOCK HOLMES,
FOR SIX NIGHTS and ONE MATINEE ONLY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plar) at Elvy’s.
CR I TER To N THEATRE. SYDNEY'
Lessee : MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, JOHN WREN, MEYNELL and
GUNN’S COMPANY.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE
HARCOURT BEATTY & MADGE McINTOSH SEASON.
Crowded Audiences Nightly to witness the Revival of the
u r c e Dr«na, an ' THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY, MAY 27, 28, 29.
MATINEE THURSDAY MAY 28, FEDORA.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Elvy’s.
TH E LYC EU M HALL. SYDN E Y.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES —25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. HENRY HAYWARD.
EVERYTHING NEW
—AT—
MASKELYNE & DEVANT’S
MYSTERIES.
Day Sales, White Rose.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
“|“ O W N HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES "°*
Everything 1 New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 1/6. Plan at Nicholson’s.
yyiRTH BROS. WIRTH BROS.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
HAVE YOU SEEN THE GIRAFFE?
LAST DAYS IN SYDNEY.
CONCLUDING A MOST TRIUMPHANT SEASON
ON EMPIRE NIGHT.
LAST TWO MATINEES, SATURDAY and
MONDAY (EMPIRE DAY).
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and 1/-. Plan at Paling’s.
GL A C
A R I U M.
OYD N E Y
ICE SKATING SEASON
RE-OPENS THIS EVENING, MAY 21.
ADMISSION 2s. SKATES 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATITE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
KAUFMANN TROUPE, World’s Greatest Bicyclists.
SYLVO, World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
Farewell Performances of Mr. CHARLES MILDARE,
England’s Greatest Whistler.
Continued Brilliant Success of
THE SISTERS ALBERT. ARDO, The Human Frog.
Mr. FRED. BLUETT. LITTLE BABY WATSON.
Miss NELLIE MAHER. Mr. LES WARTON.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPE RA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
REGAN and RYAN, Eccentric Comedians.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
MURIEL ANDREWS, Child Violinist.
TWO AHLBERGS, Comedy Acrobats.
JOHN HIGGINS, Champion Jumper.
IKE and WILL SCOTT, Comedians.
DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
THE
ENGLISH MERRYMAKERS
Selected by Messrs. G. P. Huntly and Herbert Clayton.
IN SONG AND STORY.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE THEATRICAL EVENT.
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
IN
MISS lIOOK OF HOLLAND,
By PAUL RUBENS.
Prices—3/-, 2/., 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOUR N^.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW AUSTRALIAN DRA-
MATIC COMBINATION in
HOME SWEET HOME.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Early Doors 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
L|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
THE CENTURY'S GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MEILEY WIHOM 7 .
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|«|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Generously granted free by J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY, MAY 3Q, SPECIAL MATINEE
PYGMALION & GALALIA.
Proceeds to equip the new operating theatre at
The Alfred Hospital.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
|y| ELBOURNE TOWN HALL.
FOR A SHORT SEASON,
Commencing MAY 19,
THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS.
A COMEDY COSTUME CONCERT CO.
(From London).
PRICES —45., 2s. 6d., Is. Plans at Glen & Co.
SYDNEV SEASON OPENS MAY 30.
W 1 R T H’ S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES ™ E^| s l Lt .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
/ Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Victure worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at> Glen’s.
ICE SKATING.
THE MELBOURNE
GLACIARIUM
MORNINGS and AFTERNOONS, 2s. CHILDREN, Is.
Popular Prices Every Evening, Is.
SATURDAY MORNINGS, SCHOOL CHILDREN 6d.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation ofthe lining membrane
of the nose and passages which lead to the* ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.


A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH,
Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed,
Fine Quality Bristles.
POST 20/ FREE.
Other Styles,
25/, SO/, 85/.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak
CRIBBAGE BOARD
and CARD DRAWER,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other Styles,
10/6, 15/, 20/.
CALL JUST FOR IDEAS
How much worry you would save by a visit to our extensive Showrooms just for ideas before finally
deciding. Our immense business enables us to manufacture and buy at the lowest possible cost, with the
result that when you buy from us you get far greater value for your money than you can obtain elsewhere.
Our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE WE
SEND POST FREE ON REQUEST.
ALL GOODS SENT CARRIAGE FREE
TO ANY ADDRESS in AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT STAND, Fancy China Base,
Pure Silver-Plated Gallery.
POST 7/6 FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S SHAVING ROLL, comprising Pair of Razors,
Finest Sheffield Steel, Corn Knife, Scissors,
Tweezers, Leather Roll.
POST 21/ FREE,
Other Styles, 12/6, 16/, 22/6.
Nickel SHAVING STAND,
Swing Mirror,
Cedar Base, Hot Water Bowl,
Shaving Brush, Soap Bowl.
TOST 25/ FREE.
Other lO/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE BOX, Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver,
Handsomely Embossed, Silk or Gold Lined.
Size, llin x 4in.
POST £3 FREE.
With Handkerchief Box to Match, £5/10/ pair.
&
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET BOOK, Black Morocco Leather,
Silk-Lined, Sterling Silver Mounts and Lock.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAND MIRROR,
Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed,
Bevelled Mirror, Full Size.
POST £2 FREE.
Other Styles,
20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING MUG,
Pure Silver-Plated on
White Metal,
Highly Burnished.
POST 13/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 15/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed,
Long White Bristles.
POST 10/C FREE.
Other Styles,
12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER,
Crystal Glass Roller,
Sterling Silver Mounted.
POST 7/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ CHAIN PURSE,
Crocodile Leather,
Extra Massive,
Sterling Silver Mounts.
POST 18/6 FREE.
Other Styles 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
EIGHT-DAY WALNUT CLOCK, Dull Polished Case,
Strikes Hours and Halves, Cathedral Gong,
Enamel Dial. 16in High.
POST 30/ FREE.
Other Styles, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/. ,
A. SAUNDERS.
BILLIARD CHALK HOLDER,
Sterling Silver, Plain.
POST 5/6 FREE.
£
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ CHAIN PURSE,
Seal Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other Styles,
10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ebony HAIR BRUSH,
Finest Quality Bristles,
Bure Silver Mounted.
POST 17/6 FREE.
Other Styles,
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.-
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-Plated,
Richly Embossed Floral Design. Size, sin x Sin.
Silk-lined.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 10/0, 12/6, 17/0, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Double INKSTAND, Polished Nickel Mounts,
Crystal Glass Bottles, Polished English Oak Case
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other Styles,' 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver Mounts
and Screw, Straight or Bent Amber Stem.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 4/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ASK TRAY, Pure Silver-Plated on white
Metal, Satin Finish, Hand Engraved.
POST 5/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 4/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING! FOLIO, Black or Brown Seal Leather,
Fitted with every Convenience. Silver Corners,
Nickel Lock.
POST 13/6 J REE.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
Ej
,'u *t 1
.10 | *
,8. 4
•z 0 S-
A. SAUNDERS.
EIGHT-DAY FRENCH
CARRIAGE CLOCK,
Solid Brass Case,
Lever Escapement, 4Jin high.
POST 40/ FREE.
Other Styles,
25/, SO/, 35/, 40/.
CABINET PHOTO. FRAME,
Solid Silver, Richly Embossed
Floral Design.
FOST 12/6 FREE.
Other Styles,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT PIN STAND,
Sterling Silver,
Velvet Cushion.
POST 8/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PLAYING-CARD CASE, pure Silver-plated,
richly Embossed, with Rotary Counters.
TOST 20/ FREE.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 25/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney,


JUST AS YOU CHOOSE.
The
BUT if you choose to develop your roll film in the
dark-room, you choose a method which involves
much discomfort for yourself and considerable risk
of fogging a highly color-sensitive film without the slightest
compensating advantage.
Investigation has shown that there is no necessity to
look at the film during development; that the best treat-
ment for an over-exposure and the best treatment for an
under-exposure, is the treatment that is best for a correct
exposure; and that you do not make good either over-
exposure or under-exposure by modification of the developer.
A DARK-ROOM ceases therefore to be necessary
except in so far as it enables you to transfer the
sensitive plate. to the developing dish. In the case
of roll films this operation is performed entirely in daylight
by means of the KODAK DEVELOPING TANK. The
exposed film does not see the light until it has been fully
developed and washed, and the result is a strip of negatives
the quality of which is unequalled.
LET US SEND YOU
FULL PARTICULARS
Proprietary Limited
Sole Agents in Australia
for KODAK LIMITED.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
4 The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
INFLUENZA AND LIVER HEADACHES REMOVED
SYMPTOMS TO WATCH!
HE TERRIBLE ATTACKS which
Influenza makes upon the popula-
tion from time to time are only too
well known to enlarge upon them here.
Severe headache, extending to the eyeballs
and behind the eyes, is one of the most
marked and painful symptoms of this
insidious disease. These headaches occur
more particularly with those persons who
suffer from liver disorders and whose
bowels are frequently constipated. The
poison of Influenza seems to fasten upon
the centre of least resistance in the consti-
tution, and it is, therefore, highly essential
in every case to keep the bowels well regu-
lated, the liver active, the kidneys cleansed,
and the whole of the digestive organs in
perfect condition. This is what Kutnow’s
Powder does, and this is the reason why
Kutnow’s Powder acts as a prophylactic
in disease ; or, in other words, is a pre-
ventive of the trouble.
How to Guard Agaisist
Fraud.
The Genuine and Original Kutnow’s
Powder can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the World. See that
the fac-simile signature, “S.'KutnoW &
Go., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap, are
on the carton and bottle. You will then
avoid fraud and know how to get
GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER
t
urn.
KUTNOW’S
Improved ErrtßvtSccwT CaRISBAO
POWDER,
A
Hirsciicnspruiig or Deer Leap
L?
4 m London
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C
REGISTERED TRADE MARK..
1
Emphatic Testimony !
fIAJOR S. K. COWAN writes :
“ 121 Haring Kade, Scheveningen,
“ Holland, 11th Jan., 1907.
“Gentlemen, —After a hard day’s work I
used to feel fagged and fatigued, and sleep was
frequently broken and belated. Four months
ago I began to take Kutnow’s Powder, and I
am pleased to state that I can now work strenu-
ously without any ill-effect, and sleep follows
naturally. Your powder is without a doubt
refreshing and invigorating, and an excellent
nerve bracer.
“SAMUEL K. COWAN,
“ Major 3rd Royal Irish Rifles, M.A.
“(Trin. Coll. Dub.).”
REV. J. n. DRYERRE writes :
“Gordon Villa, Burnham, Somerset,
“ Nov. 9.
“Gentlemen, —It may be of some interest
to you to know that I have used Kutnow’s
Powder from time to time with most excellent
results, and I consider it only fair to acquaint
you of the benefit I have experienced from
so useful a remedy, which fully carries out
what it is advertised to do.
“ (Rev.) J. MELDRUM DRYERRE,
“LL.B., F.R.G.S.”
NURSE ISABEL A. HUDD, C.n.B.
(QUEEN CHARLOTTE’S HOSPITAL),
WRITES :
“ 94 Westbourne Park Road, Bayswater, W.,
“ August 27th, 1907.
“Sirs, —A short time ago you sent me a
bottle of Kutnow’s Powder. I write to say
that I have found it extremely beneficial in
cases of constipation, also for haemorrhoids.
Some of my patients have used Kutnow’s for
rheumatism ; they also testify to its excellent
qualities.—Yours truly,
“ISABEL A. MUDD, Q.C.11., C.M.8.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER REGULATES YOUR LIVER.


Every Part of Body Affected —Was
in Hospital Five Times—Army
Doctors and Nine Different Reme-
dies Did No Good—Speedy Im-
provement and Finally a
PERFECT CURE BY USE
OF CUTICURA REMEDIES
“I have suffered with chronic eczema
for fourteen years. Every part of my
body was affected. My father has been
in the army and I have been attended
by army doctors who all failed, I have
been in hospital five times, but none
of them did me any good. I have tried
nine different kinds of remedies and
none took any effect on me. At last I
read of the wonderful cures which the
Cuticura Remedies have made and in
May I got a box of Cuticura Ointment
and used it. When I had used half of
the first box I saw that there was a great
improvement in me. After that I got
the Cuticura Soap and Resolvent Pills
which did all the better. Since then I
have used five boxes of Cuticura Oint-
ment and am now completely cured.
Had we known of Cuticura years ago
we would have given pounds for it. I
am writing this letter so that other
sufferers may see it and get cured by the
Cuticura Remedies. O. F. Hedge,
51, Vaughan Road, Coldharbor Lane,
Camblewell Green, Dec. 5 and 11,1906.”
CUTICURA TREATMENT
For Sore Feet and Hands with
Shapeless Nails.
Soak the feet or hands on retiring
in a strong, hot, creamy lather of Cuticura
Soap. Dry and anoint
freely with Cuticura
Ointment, the great
Skin Cure. Wear during
the night light band-
ages of old, soft cotton
or linen. For red,
rough hands, dry, itch-
ing palms, with shape-
less nails, this treat-
ment points to a
epeedy cure of the most distressing
cases. Cuticura Remedies are guaran-
teed absolutely pure.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants. Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
&Co„ Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul.
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skm Diseases.
TS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
A LIFETIME
A piano should last
a lifetime !
Therefore you should
take particular care
in the selection of an
instrument .
Don't believe all you
hear the speakers
may be interested in
making a sale of
some particular make
of piano ♦
Investigate for your-
self the merits of
The STEINWAY
and let your own
good judgment de-
cide whether it is
not the best piano
made .
Cash or
Terms.
Catalogues
Free.
We're on the safe
side when we hand
over a Ten Years'
guarantee with THE
STEINWAY the
best piano made .
34-2 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
115,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed ! ! !
aad keeps audit ing.
No. S.
Red Harry Is.
DAINTY BEADED
Evening Shoe
FOR LADIES,
18/6
A more dainty Evening Shoe
would be hard to find. It is
most tastefully beaded, is very
light in make, beautifully
finished with padded insole,
and has a luxurious beauty
that cannot fail to please. 18/6.
If ordering in Victoria, add
9d. for postage; if in other
States, add 1/-
Drop us a Post Card for our Booklet “Shoe-
light,” beautifully illustrated with our
finest footwear. We send it FREE.
LEEMING’S BOOTS TORES, 109 Swanston
Street, Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
PEOPLE
who are
FAT
■ often fail
to fully
I ' y
COPIED fßon ACTIJAU PtIQIQDRAPJia
realise what a tremendous burden they
are carrying. A body intended to carry
ten stone must suffer severely when
constantly loaded with 50 per cent, ex-
cess weight. Dead weight, useless tissue.
Why do you carry it? Obesity ruins
the health.
“F atcure ”
reduces excess weight and cures Obesity. It
reduces and keeps down Corpulence. It rids
the body of five pounds superfluous fat per
week. No drastic dieting or exercise is
required. It is harmless, and pleasant to
take. Improves the general health and re-
stores a good figure. Send 2d. stamp, or
call for free trial sample. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance from Castlereagh or Market Streets. [3l
“ No cootinfl,
add water
only.”
IS AN
r IDEAL FOOD
S' for infants, in-
r valids, convales-
f cents, and the
aged. Easily di- A
gested,
ening and /
soothing, j
f The
food
that
never
f fails or
r disagrees.
Prepared
from healthy
cow’s milk, malted
barley and wheat.
Sold by all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail
Stores, &e., &c.
Samples: 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. Wale 9.
Horliek's Food Co., Slough, Bucks, England.
9»*
POST
m
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
> YOUR
POSITION
m(M\» <y
vOtiP Splendid
QOMMERCIAL
BOOKKEEPING.
! ACCOUNTANCY.
SHORTHAND.
•PENMANSHIP,
ENGLISH.
LANGUAGES. AC.
AGRICULTURAL.
SQIL MANAGEMENT
DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATION.
BREEDING AND
MANAGEMENT OF
LIVE STOCK. AC.
QOMMtRCIAL art
DRAWING.
LLU ST RATING.
ADVERTISEMENT
WRITING,
DESIGNING. AC.
Mon*/.
HIGHER SALARIES and
Splendid prospects await
those who take advantage
of our system of POSTAL
INSTRUCTION. We teach
wherever the mail reaches,
and our methods ensure the
acquirement of MONEY-
MAKING KNOWLEDGE.
Our instruction is thorough,
practical and complete, and
our instructors are men of
unquestionable ability and
experience. Every student
receives careful individual
attention, and the instruction
is private. We prepare
candidates for all PUbLIC
EXAMINATIONS.
It costs nothing to inquire.
Write TO-DAY for FREE
copy of PROSPECTUS E
and state subject in which
you are interested.
SOUS
56 HUNTER ST SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE:
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
• ‘ •
m*) *
4
m
¥
A zestful relisk
of mscious tomatoes-
ncked fruits fresli frofn the garden, fairly
fursting with ruhy ripeness—only these
re good enough for DyVson to use in the
naking of his Tomato Sauce. All the
Selicacy and daintiness of\a Home Made
reserve—and yet more choicely flavoured.
. .Wing to a score of years'Experience • in;
>Eondiment making. '
preservatives
diatever in
■tk ere are n
of any kind
DYASCW'S
TOMATO SAUCE.
Tomato Chutney,
Tomato Catsup.
Sold by Grocers everywhere.'.-^
J
THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
60/-
!"v
THIS racing- CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It tunes
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and l
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dia ,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back, in
Chronograph is only in use when wanted— tne
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fun}
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, an
perfectly finished in every detail. It is woun
and set without opening the case, and tne
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by sup-
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GU -
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white ai >
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed 1
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not g
complete satisfaction, I will*return your pu r ° na *®
money in full. This watch is something out of tne
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any te
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I hai
the same works in sterling silver cases and son
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER*
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND y
can’t keep current with Australian ’
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many bl !
stories and sketches. Send in a year s subscrip
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
The Jap Slave Trade.
A littlk English paper called The Shield has
lately been publishing items gathered from various
sources about the Japanese slave trade in Eastern
Asia. One or two follow in a condensed state :
The Bulletin Abolitionists of November reports that
M. Francis de Prkssensk, a leading French abolitionist,
member of the French Parliament, and President of the
League of the Bights of Man, has questioned the Minister
of the Colonies of the French Government with regard to
the following letter from a reliable eye-witness :
“ I was a second-class passenger on board the Oalb-
donien, pf the Messageries Maritimes Line, which sailed
from Saigon on September 8, 1906.
“ 1 noticed a place barred with iron situated between two
passages of the lower deck, which was generally reserved
for trunks and packages, and from which there was no
exit except by the opening at the top (on deck), which
was closed at the time by tarpaulins.
“ There were eight or ten young Japanese girls in their
national costume penned up in this place, under the
guard of a Japanese man with a hang-dog appearance,
who was walking in the passage. Two of the girls ap-
peared to be of the ages of twelve and fifteen years, and
the oldest about twenty.
“ I made inquiries. An officer on board told me that
they were going, or being taken, to Singapore for the
‘ Jleleve.’ ”
(Releve is originally a military colloquial expression,
meaning the replacing of one body of soldiers by another,
or fresh relays of horses in a military campaign. The
word has been taken over by the procurers of the
Slave Traffic, to indicate a fresh set of victims for the
tolerated houses, to replace those who have become ill,
or worn out, or who have left for other reasons.)
M. Pressense, in his question to the French Colonial
Minister, said: “I will not dwell upon the sadness and
humiliation of such a traffic at our period of the world’s
history. You may not be able to hinder the sale of these
young girls, children even, in Japan, but French ships
ought not to be used in this odious traffic, nor should
French officers be made the accomplices of the traffic in
helping the transportation of these unhappy creatures.”
And again:—
The following letter was sent to the Japan Times from
Peking by Mr. G. S. Railton, travelling Commissioner of
the Salvation Army
“ Since arriving here I have been appalled by facts
which will, I am sure, distress your readers also.
“Not only in this city, and in Tientsin, but in many
other cities a large number of Japanese girls are sold into
a form of slavery most degrading to themselves and to
the good name of their country.
“ A miserable destiny awaits the girls who have been
sold and sent here. Bi tter are the tears they shed under
the cruel treatment of the brothel-keepers.”
Also, some more :
The Kobe Yoes.jin gives another scandalous case. This
newspaper published a letter from seven Japanese girls,
who were then at Ipoh, in Perak. This letter is authenti-
cated by two members of the Patriotic Association of
Japanese Ladies, who had encountered the girls, and had
learned from them their narrative of suffering. The girls
were natives of Kinsjioe, and met these men at Nagasaki,
who promised them good situations in Korea. No sooner,
however, did the girls find themselves on board a junk
than the attitude of the procurers changed. They were
compelled continually to submit to the sensual desires of
these scoundrels. They were ill-treated, and, if cross,
were only given food once a day, or even once in two
days. One of the victims'committed suicide by jumping
into the sea. Another was killed by one of the tyrants on
an occasion when she called out for rescue.
The girls were later transported on to a large ship,
where they were put in a place in the hold. At Hong
Kong some of them were sold to a licensed brothel. The
rest were passed on to Singapore and other places, where
they were sold for considerable sums.
The remarkable Miss Rose Scott, of Sydney,
lately wrote to the press in denunciation of any
serious attempt at providing for the defence of
Australia, and pointed out that, even if this
country was conquered, it wouldn’t really matter
much, as the Japanese were quite kind to “ their
captives.’’ Unfortunately, there are many defi-
nitions of kindness, and so Miss Scott’s off-hand
assurances don’t carry so much weight as they
might. There is a lack of detail about them.
What we do know is that the nation which is our
most probable enemy is powerful, ambitious, and
aggressive, and that it has the unpleasant habit
of often regarding even its own daughters—it
would probably be still more ready to regard
other people’s daughters—as merchandise. Bruce
Smith has, he admits, “a weakness for colored
races,” and Miss Rose Scott seems almost to
yearn to be a “captive,” but surely they would
revolt at the idea of the handsome white daughters
of their friends at Darling Point being sent away
in the hold of a ship as saleable goods, six or eight
of them herded in a den with an outlet at the top,,
and that covered with a tarpaulin. There is a
lack of ordinary refinement about the transporta-
tion of a herd of bought or kidnapped girls in a
sort' of marine bear pit, their food being let down
to them at the end of a string, or in some such
fashion, and their owner inspecting them from the
top at any hour of the day or night to make sure
that they are all there.
♦
One “ Blayney ” writes from Vancouver, on the
Canadian west coast —the one next to Asia :
By this mail I send you two recent editions of our local
dailies bearing on the Asiatic question. These should
be of special interest to you, seeing that you in
Australia consider you are in a bad way with
regard to this question. Yet, compared to Canada,
you have no grievance. I hope Australians will
become aware of the proposition they have to face when
emigrating to this much-boosted country, which in reality
is simply a delusion and a snare, the smart engineering
work of advertising genius for which Americans are
famous. That glorious land of Canada, where wealth
abounds and poverty is unknown, is, I can assure you, all
a myth, and this fact is borne out every day by those who
are fortunate enough to be able to repack their trunks
and make more room for the increasing population of
Chows and Japs. Those, on the other hand, who have
been deluded to this country, and are not so fortunate as
to be able to get away, are compelled to accept the daily
pauper meal tickets issued by the city council, and look
on at the Yellow Peril as it thrives and grows fat, either
as an employer of labor or as a much-sought employee.
Under the circumstances, is it any wonder that, when
you take an evening walk away from the main streets,
you risk being held up by armed men, who persuade you,
at the point of a revolver, to hand over your money or
jewellery? This sort of thing is happening every night;
on Saturday night, the 24th January, no less than 13 cases
of highway robbery were reported to the police. That
isn’t bad for one night in such a small place as
Vancouver. All this is due to the unchecked influx of
the Chinese and the Jap. In Australia if a steamer
brings a cargo of four or five Chinkies there is great con-
cern, yet here we get shiploads of 400 and 600, and as many
as a thousand in a bunch. They are brought here by the
big corporations, the big employers of labor, and gradu-
ally but surely they are working out the white laborer,
with the result above stated. Even as I write, a large
Japanese syndicate hag lflade arrangements for the pur-
chase of a block of 1(1,000 acres in order to establish a
Japanese settlement fot the cultivation of sugar. The
Canadian Pacific Railway, the largest single employer of
labor on the American continent, will only employ white
labor when the colored is not available, and this applies
also to many other concerns.
It is. estimated that the population of this town (Van-
couver) is 70,000 people, and these figures include 10,000
Japs and Chinese. The estimated population of the
province of British Columbia is 200,000, including 50,000,
or, in other words, 25 per cent., of the Yellow Peril.
It is only when we come in direct contact with con-
ditions such as exist here that we Australians appreciate
our own country’s worth, and you may accept it from me
that the aim and ambition of an Australian in Canada
is to accumulate sufficient money to purchase a ticket
to his homeland.
«
‘ ‘ Austral Roo ”: Went into a shop in Cobar
(N.S.W.) to buy a pair of kangaroo-skin boots.
Asked why boots had gone up ? Shopman said,
“Oh, the tariff, you know.” Where are kanga-
| roos grown—in England, or Germany, or Japan ?


Pertinent Pointer
REGARDING CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY.
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY.
WHY II IS GOOD.
A good Cough Remedy is one that can be
depended upon to Cure Coughs.
Not one that cures some particular cough, but
cures coughs in general.
It must be a Cough Remedy that can be relied
upon to cure all the different coughs that are so
prevalent in Australia. While the causes of all
coughs are primarily the same, yet the condition
of the patient is what makes the difference in the
nature of the cough itself. Coughs of healthy
persons are easier to cure than the coughs of
invalids. The powerful convulsive cough of a
large man is harder to cure than the cough of a
baby. If you get a remedy that will cure a large
man’s cough, and yet not be too powerful for the
baby, you have a good cough remedy.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is just this kind
of remedy. It is good for any member of the
family. It cures coughs of all kinds.. It is the
product of much thought and study to produce an
ideal cough cure. It is composed of things which
cure easily and soothingly without harming the
most delicate tissues of the throat. It acts as
easily and safely on the young as on the old.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is the ideal remedy
for coughs.
His Experience.
E. E. Hill, Bridgetown, W.A., writes : “ From
personal Experience I can testify to the efficacy of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. Last winter I
was troubled with a very bad cough, and tried
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which quickly
cured me. Now I keep a bottle on hand, and
take a dose at the first symptom of a cold, and
have never since had a cold or cough.”
She Don’t Worry.
Mrs. C. NEWSON, 111 Creek Street, Bendigo:
“Have used Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy for
many years in my family", and, since I am the
mother of eleven children, think I am entitled to
pass an opinion. All the children have at times
had coughs, colds, and a peculiar hacking cough,
which seems to run in the family. In every in-
stance we have used Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy with splendid results. It promptly re-
lieves and cures. We don’t worry over these
attacks so long as Chamberlain’s Cough remedy is
in the house. I always tell my neighbors to keep
it, and several do so.”
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy may not be
needed to-day, but what about to morrow? Colds
come into every home, so be prepared.
CHAMBERLAINS
COUGH REMEDY.
WHY SAFE AND SURE.
In buying a cough medicine for children never
be afraid to buy Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
There is no danger from it, and relief is always
sure to follow. It is intended especially for
coughs, colds, croup, and whooping cough, and is
the best medicine in the world for these diseases.
It is not only a certain cure for croup, but when
given as soon as the croupy cough appears, will
prevent the attack. Whooping cough is not dan-
gerous when this remedy is given as directed. It
contains no opium or other harmful drugs, and
may be given as confidently to a baby as to an
adult.
“ Best for Children.”
This is the opinion of Mr. THOMAS SNED-
DON, Family Grocer, Mornington, Dunedin,
N.Z., regarding Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
“My little grandchild was very bad with croup,
and we had tried nearly everything we ever heard
of, but with no results. We secured a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and gave it to him
according to directions. It only took a couple of
doses to cause all the phlegm to come away, and
soon he was out of danger. I really think,” he
adds, “ that Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is the
best remedy sold for children.”
Was Completely Cured.
Mr, W. MARSHALL, Inspector Vermin
Destruction Act, Coleraine, Vic., says:—“We
always keep Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the
house, and would not be without it. I consider it
the best of all medicines, for it gives instant
relief, whether the patient is one of the children
or myself. When I first tried Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy I was driving through the Caster-
ton district, and had caught a severe cold. I
bought a couple of bottles from Messrs. H. and G.
Harris, of Casterton, and kept a bottle in my
pocket, taking a dose about every three hours, and
before they were used was completely cured. I
used to suffer from bronchitis, but by taking
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy at the first symp-
tom always ward off an attack. I have given
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy a sound and sub-
stantial trial, and have no hesitation in saying it is
the best of all cough medicines, and can highly
recommend it to anyone with a family.”
Every Bottle Guaranteed.
If you fail to get' beneficial results after using
two-thirds of a bottle of
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
according to directions, return it to your dealer
and get your money back. It is well known for
its prompt cures of coughs, colds, and croup.
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY.
HOW IT ACTS.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy assists Nature.
Being purely vegetable, free from all narcotics, it
fulfils the requirements of a perfect cough remedy.
It is soothing and healing. It not only checks
the cough or cold, but assists Nature in throwing
from the system the cause of same, and helps
bring about a condition that renders a second
attack less dangerous. It tones up the mucous
membrane, enabling it to withstand exposure. Its
power to control congestion and inflammation puts
it in a different list from all other cough medi-
cines. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy loosens the
cough, relieves the lungs, and makes expectora-
tion easy.
Commercial Traveller’s
Experience.
Mr. GEO. P. TIDEMAN, the “Hustling Tra-
veller ” for Messrs. Burns, Philp and Co., Towns-
ville, Queensland, writes: “Just a line to tell
you how grateful I feel for the relief I obtained
while travelling up North. Some time ago I had
a very severe cold, caught whilst sleeping on the
A.U.S.N. Co.’s mail steamer. When I arrived at
Geraldton I felt very mean. My throat was very
bad, and I could hardly speak. Knowing the
benefit other people had received whilst using
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, I obtained a
bottle from the leading storekeeper there, and
took it according to directions. The first dose
gave me relief, and before I left the town my
cough was quite cured. I must say it did me a lot
of good, and I am now never without a bottle;
also keep some in my home for future use.”
Mother’s Recommendation.
Mrs. MARY GRAY, Wagonga, N. S. Wales,
writes: “Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has a
splendid reputation in this district, and I know
of many cases where acute croup and bronchitis
have been cured. I had been a sufferer from
bronchial asthma for many years, and never found
any treatment that would relieve me until I com-
menced taking Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
and that completely cured me. It has never
failed to cure coughs or chest complaints among
the members of my family. I always keep a
bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the
house, and would advise all mothers to do
likewise.”
Officially Declared Free.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is the only cough
remedy sold in Australasia that has been officially
declared by Australian authorities Free from all
Poisons.
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY.
FRIEND TO FRIEND.
The personal recommendations of people who
have been cured of coughs and colds by “ Cham-
berlain s Cough Remedy ” have done more than
all else to make it a staple article of trade and
commerce over a large part of the civilised world.
This is especially true in Australia, where by
word of mouth—friend to friend—the good this
remedy is doing is being constantly repeated. We
doubt if there is a single home in the Common-
wealth that has not heard of this household article,
and in the majority it is being used.
The makers of “ Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy ”
do not claim it to be a cure-all. They do, how-
ever, claim it to contain the very best drugs that
money can buy, and also assert that the care used
in course of manufacturing does make it an ideal
cough medicine.
A Tourist’s Praise.
Mr. FRANK W. FRAZER, of Scone, N.S.W.,
writes: “ I was touring New Zealand some time
ago, and, owing to the continued wet weather,
contracted a very severe cold. While staying at
the “ Royal Oak,” in Wellington, a friend advised
me to try Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. »This
advice was followed, and after I had taken a few
doses was completely cured. I can confidently
recommend Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to any
one suffering from throat or lung troubles.”
TICKLING IN THE
THROAT.
TRIFLING BUT SIGNIFICANT.
This seems trifling, but you know these little
insignificant complaints gradually develop into
the most serious unless checked in time. Nature
invariably sounds the alarm, and if you don’t
heed, disastrous results generally follow. When
there is a tickling in the throat you may res'
assured there is some cause 5 some foreign
substance lodged, or some inflammation. You
must take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. You
can feel at once its soothing, quietening, and
healing influence. It is no experiment. Not
only does Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy reduce
the inflammation, but strengthens the delicate
lining of the throat; makes it stronger and more
able to throw off pulmonary diseases.
Cough while you can, for after taking Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy you can’t cough any more.
A certain cure in every bottle.
THIS MEDICAL BATTERY
Is not a cure-all, but it is a practi-
cally certain means of relieving or
curing entirely—
RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO,
SCI A TIC A,
GOUT,
NERVOUSNESS, etc.
Medical men are unanimous that
electricity really does these things,
and the letters of testimony we are
constantly receiving are further
proof. We are practical Electricians,
and test every battery before it goes
out to ensure its being in perfect
working order.
m.
Price
3 51
POST
FREE
WRITE FOR OUR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
EOYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
«A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
“C.” (who may be a false prophet) writes
violently from Brisbane :—
Kidston should make the most of his trip to Europe ;
when he comes back, he will be welcomed with deafening
hen product. The majority of his late supporters bitterly
resent his action in selling the party without consulting
either his Cabinet colleagues or the members who stuck
to him through thick and thin. Kidston tricked his
friends in a particularly despicable fashion. He told
them nothing of his negotiations with Philp until he had
completely compromised himself, and made sure of his
European tour. None of the Labor members attended
his send-off banquet, and the great majority of his own
party purposely stayed away. It was a Fatman’s feast all
through—fat turkey, fat wines, and fat heads. From
what 1 hear in the ranks of the late Kidstonian party, the
erstwhile leader will return to find a Labor-Democratic
combination strong enough to knock Philp and Kidston
kite high. Then Kidston’s fate will be the fate of all poli-
tical betrayers since the time of Judas, and before.
Consider the eternal vigilance of the
British War Office. The other day six small boxes
from Woolwich reached this country. They
were labelled “ glass, with care,” and separately
addressed to six different Defence Ministers, one
in each State. Still it is only seven years since
the Commonwealth took over the Defence Depart-
ments ; and you can’t expect the War Office to
learn a thing in seven years. Yet there are some
ill-regulated people who think that perhaps Aus-
tralia had better get ready to put up a bit of a
defensive fight on its own account, instead of
trusting wholly to an office which is so spry and
so well-informed about what is happening down
this way.
“Billy T.”: H. Gyles Turner, the Mel-
bourne banker who has got himself accepted as a
sort of literary authority in his own city by a con-
sistent display of unskilful criticism, expressed in
a recent lecture his disapproval of the Australian
for his alleged tendency to “blow,” and because
he is “ not sufficiently impressed with the new-
ness and comparative insignificance of his
country.” I am weary of this stupid iteration of
me charge of “blow” directed against the one
man on earth who has no Jingo ballads whooping
ct his vast superiority over all other men. As for
me Australian’s refusal to recognise the insig-
nificance of Australia, I am ashamed to say he
uoes recognise it in some things—in thinking he
can t grow Governors equal to those imported, and
IT. rp enm £ with patience to the carpings of critics
'*; e J-urner who are wroth with him for not being
Wholly a worm.
It was recorded on Monday that things
are so bad with the Australian military forces
that there is one rifle for seven cadets, and a
poor rifle at that. All the same, when the Aus-
tralian Government proposes to spend a trifle on
defence, Wade, of N.S.W., rushes out to Rock-
dale to orate about the Commonwealth “calmly
putting our money in their pockets.”
The Bar of England proposes to banquet
H. H. Asquith, on the ground that he is only the
second lawyer to fill the office of Prime Minister
in a century. Spencer Perceval (1809) was the
other, so 99 years elapsed between Gentleman
One and Gentleman Two. There were also sundry
Prime Ministers who had studied law, but they
hadn’t actually pursued the elusive refresher, so
they are not counted. The Devil’s Brigade has
been better treated in N.S.W. Martin, Reid,
Carruthers, and Wade were all in the six-and-
eightpenny or its allied occupation.
Wade, back in Sydney after meeting Prime
Minister Deakin and Treasurer Lyne, had either
the monumental ignorance or the monumental im-
pudence to describe the financial scheme in this '
way : —
The substance of Mr. Deakin’s proposal is, that the
States are to receive from the Customs and Excise
revenue an aggregate sum of £6,000.000 a year for 35
years.
The Sydney Telegraph can stand a good deal,
but this was too plain and unvarnished a misre-
presentation, so it threw its cold, calm Joss over at
this point. Among other things that the Joss
forgot to mention were these :—
The Commonwealth proposes to pay £6,000,000 a year
iof the interest on the States’ debts for the first five years.
It proposes to pay about £100,000 more every succeed-
ing year.
It proposes to relieve the States absolutely of their
present debt at the end of 35 years.
It proposes in the meantime to pay for old-age pensions,
and thus relieve the N. S. Wales State Government of a ‘
drain of about £500,000 a year, which is likely to be
£800,000 in 25 years.
Wade omitted all that. Instead he talked of an
“unfortunate day” when, 35 years hence, the
States will “surrender the whole of their Customs
and Excise revenue to the Commonwealth with-
out receiving one single penny out of it.” The.
mere fact that the States are to receive a discharge
for about £245,000,000 of debt wasn’t worth
alluding to.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth. ,
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116.621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. r—W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £'3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £81,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Officb for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: .
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
of [|orth Queensland
(Established 188 S.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
PDAUTC rtDACTC on Australia, New Zea-
unAN I O Unttr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
CjV
$
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
TSr.S.'W .
IHontdepieteo.i!s!i|.Co.,ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74: CASTLEREAGH Sr., 74, SYDNEY
Aim AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
r^ 1 A I\| Accident and Guarantee
w O »—• ’ Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. \V. Mkkks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright &'Co.), Sir Joun.Sk.e, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allkx,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: U. A.
Jkssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 C
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 C
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.; Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J. M. I’rktt, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson,
j “ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. Gd.
Shipping.
3XT. ID. Hi.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
via Ports.
Leave Melb’rne 3 days later
~ Adelaide 6 ~ ~
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDCMAR 2nd JUNE.
PRINZ SICISMUND 30th JUNE.
MANILA 28th JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridsre-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal j)ank of Queensland
IjIIUJTKJK **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £475,041 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174.350 0 0
Reserve FuNDdnvested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
£719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.G.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
Tjondon.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Leave Sydney.
Noon, May 22
Noon, June 19
Noon, July 17
Noon, Aug. 14
Noon, Sept. 11
♦Twin Screw.
t New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 10th
June.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about Bth
July.
SUEVIO, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New ITork, &c. .. ' 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of" Accommodation.
Pamvhlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Anplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
J)a/</eti/ and Coinpani/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
> HO LI PAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
' s
CRUISES. C
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Legal Notice.
FREDERICK HALL LILLEY.
PURSUANT to an order of the Court of
Chancery of the County Palatine of Lan-
caster made in an action Huime v Godwin (1908
Letter H No. 37) whereby an enquiry was directed
whether FREDERICK HALL LILLEY is
living or dead and if dead when he died and who
are his legal personal representatives the persons
claiming to be the said FREDERICK HALL
LILLEY if living or to be his legal personal
representatives if he is dead are by their Solicitors
on or before the 14th day of August 1908 to come
in and prove their claims at the Chambers of the
Registrar of the Manchester District of the said
Court at Duchy Chambers Clarence Street in the
City of Manchester or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said order. Tuesday the 6th day of October 1908
at 11 o’clock in the forenoon at the said Chambers
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
the said claims.
Any person having information as to the where-
abouts of the said FREDERICK HALL
LILLEY if living or as to the time and place of
his death if he is dead is requested to communi-
cate with the undersigned Solicitors.
NOTE.—The said FREDERICK HALL
LILLEY was born on the 31st day of May 1875.
He sailed from England in the year 1894 for
Australia. The last letter received by his relatives
in England was dated 27th September 1898. It was
written from Violet Town Victoria and contained
a request for a reply to the care of his uncle Mr.
GEORGE BENTLEY 184 Napier Street Fitzroy
Melbourne.
Dated the 3rd day of April, 1908.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
BOOTH & WILKINSON,
122 Katherine Street,
Ashton under Lyne,
Near Manchester, England.
Business Announcements.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. §ee machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Hotels, &c.
An Opportunity for A PROGRESSIVE HOTELKEEPER.
THE “ FEDERAL” HOTEL, NORTH SYDNEY. Modern
building, containing 27 rooms, exclusive of Bars.
Occupies finest business position in the district, at Post
Office Corner and new Tram Junction. Best house and
best trade in the district. Just renovated throughout.
Bars to be reconstructed. The undersigned Trustee for
owners desires proposals for A LEASE OF 10 YEARS on
BONUS and RENTAL TERMS. With up-to-date
manag ment, this property can be made the best outside
the City. Principals only.
W. J. SPRUSON, 169 King Street, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconifield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
' ’
G
EORGE
St. Hilda,
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Sh.op,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiie Bulletin.] 16
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports 3
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Gran tala, May 23.
(Without transhipment.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Norfh to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, May 23.
S.S. Innamincka, May 30.
Ttest anti Cheapest linate to <lotdllelds, „
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IYJESSAGERIES j^jARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking- passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR'
DAY, May 23.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 30.
GRANTALA, SATURDAY,
June 20.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 23.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
May 26.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, May 30.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
GAN ADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.—-5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
(via Madeira).
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,300 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers. a
Will be despatched from Brisbane on the 4th June,
„ Sydney „ 10th June, 1908
„ „ Melbourne ~ 15th June, 1908
„ „ Adelaide „ 20th June, 1908
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-bertn
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior Third-class accommodation comprised oi
2,4, and 8-berth cabins, situated on the main dec,
amidships, with dining-room on the upper deck,
lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decKS.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provision
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon ami
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Ket
Tickets issued. Prepaid passages arranged
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and I £49 10s< £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
LIVERPOOL .. *■ o
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed every four weeks by other fast twi
screw passenger steamers. For further informa ,
illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to.
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Ltd., Melbourne.
ELDER SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.


TOOTH’S
XXX ALE
IS
UNRIVALLED.
*
AULDJOCK
TOOTH & CO., LTD..
Proprietors,
KENT BREWERY,
SYDNEY.'
NEAT and
STRONQ.
TO
MEND
BELTS'and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the'prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1058, Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington, Eng.
Price List on
application.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY,
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
DI&11 O RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fait.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT * Co., 229, Strand.
London. England
F
P.OLW.E I i_:s
V MSJ I r
£
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES. Read the following proof of its efficacy: —
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford, writes :—“ If the value of ‘POWELL’S BALSAM OF ANISEED’
was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I have done for
upwards of 50 years; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably sets me up. It is
invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have had three
attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and 2or 3 bottles had the desired effect when all else failed. You may make
what use of this you like."— December nth , /907.
Mrs. S. W. Bailey, 32, Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W., writes:—“l may add that I recommend your
BALSAM after 12 years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts, for 33 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers.’’— January, 1908.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Nero South Wales and Queensland :—
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR COUGHS.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
A Half-Page of Beautiful Tiling's from wHicH
to Choose.
How do you liKe the New Style of NecKlet
Set with the Fashionable Turquoise Matrix?
Very effective when worn, we can assure you;
and the Style and Color suits the majority of
people. We have a variety of designs after
the style ci the one we picture here.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.
Then we have the Malachite Necklets -rather
a pretty stone in shades of green. They come
out at the following prices—Bos. and 90s. If
you want to wear the very newest you can
order one of these with safety.
C2.—15ct. Gold and Real Pearl Set Necklet, in case, <£4//0/-
Fine Opal and Diamond
Marquise Ring, ISct. Gold, JE/7//0/-
01.—Fine Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Necklet, in case, £4/15/-
No. H1549.—11eal Pearl
Set, Amethyst and Gold
Pendant, £2/101-
No. G 9396. —15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl
Set Brooch, £1 11716.
No. F729B—Pearl Set Gold Spray Brooch,
211- ’ with Pearls and Olivines, in 15et.
Gold, £2.
No. H7727—15et. Gold, Pearl and Exquisite Enamel
Pendant, vvith (-iofd and Pearl Necklet, iii Morocco
Case, £B/10/"
No. G 5009.—
Sapphire,
Pearl and
15et. Gold,
The Latest Style of Necklet. Real Turquoise Matrix and Pearls, mounted
in Uold, £5/5/-.
Other styles, somewhat similar, for 70/-, 80/- and 90/-.
No. H7729.—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Tortoise Brooch in 15ct.
Gold, £2/151-
No. H772B—Whole Pearl
Acorn Brooch, in 15ct.
Gold, 35/-
Fine Gold—Whole Pearl—Diamond
and R. Ruby Brooch and Pendant,
in case, £3O.
a
Act. Gold Tie
or Safety
Pins.
lin., 3/6
ljin., 4/6
l|in., 5/6
2in., 8/6
No. H772C— Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Necklet and
Pendant, in Morocco Case, £9 10 -


m
BRIARS do not
BURNorCRACK
Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia •
2 51 Clarence St. Sydney
FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
to take, and, what is of the utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that' is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance or
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested..
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Brain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent or threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
“antibilious pills” make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medicine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in completely curing the complaints
named.
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to
4 —more or less as required taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as ao
auxilliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. & If not
obtainable locally,, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE.—The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular way that a far BETTER
result is obtained than from an ordinary
aperient.
A CURED WOMAN
Relates her Intense Sufferings—how Doctors
Failed to do her any Good. She Finally Tried
Clements Tonic
Which Makes Permanent Cure.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
■pr _- a . narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us by
Mr * H Ann e Young Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address, where
fhe has been livinf for thl past eleven years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
illness, you refer to It doesn’t seem half so long ago, for
everything is as fresh in my memory as though it was only yesterday.
“oh "St'XiSS?? had neuralgia in the head ! I hope not for it was
something dreadful. Right across the forehead, through from one temple to the other, and up to the
something are * acute pain imaginable harassed me. The agony was so great that often I
top of my headthernost and j really used to think j wou ld go mad with it.
Rhldsuch an effect on me, indeed, that even my sight went bad and, as for the feeling in my eyes
1 well they felt as if they were double the size they should have been. Ah ! what desolate, melan-
choly days they were ! I’m sure I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the world,
and I think I had occasion to be, in view of the fact that the outlook was so black,
“ Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote ?
“They did indeed, for I had been attended to by several doctors, and the most they could do for
me was to give just a little relief now and then ; but there was nothing lasting about it and if I felt a
S better one day, I was sure to feel ten times worse the next, and the medicine, besides being so
ineffective w a3 always disagreeable to take. A strange thing was that I felt always so worn-out,
inenective, was A j W as only fit to go somewhere 'and lie down and die—yet, when I made
o,o« think™ »l/? Nofa bit of it. I’d twist and torn nearly the whole n.ght
through and when at last I dosed off the dreams I had were fearful.
-And you couldn’t get permanent relief from these symptoms through the medicine prescribed
f ° r No” unfortunately. But finally I got something to do me good Clements Tonic it was and
the best’remedy I ever had in my life, too. Goodness, what a show it made of everything
T T fad taken for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the base of my
fifirmities and lifted them out by the roots ! In addition to what I have already told you, I must
fatethati was highly nervous-nobody could be more so, for I was actually afraid to stay in my own
house by myself, and was continually worrying myself about things that I imagined were going to
haonen Trouble was always hanging over me, and I couldn’t get the idea out of my head-not until
I had been taking Clements Tonic for a space of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding
over such silly things, and my mind became as happy as the day. Oh ! it was wonderfu what an
altered woman Clements Tonic made me. Instead of being anxious and timid all day I got as happy
and cheSul as possible-nothing frightened me, and my nerves were steady It is because I know
so many nervous women that I deem it my duty to say what a splendid remedy Clements Tome is for
that complaint, though, for that matter, it was equally beneficial to me in other ways, I used to get
earns down the small of my back and about my shoulders, also palpitation and pains in the region of
mv heart which made me think that something very serious was wrong with me there; but Clements
Tonic thowed itself to be such a pain-removing med.um that I can faithfully recommend it to all
sufferers Its regulating influences on the heart were extraordinary, and for making ones sleep sound
and peaceful the same rlmedy was the only one to meet with my requirements I wish I had used it
months before for plenty of people told me what a grand medicine Clements lonic was. Ihe least I
can do is to assist my neighbors to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in
any manner you like. ’
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
t 4TVWTF YOUNG of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Coratmonwealth of
b 2 n( \ sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and tnat it contains
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains m, tall permission
and li b in !nv wv mv statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment ; and I make
to publish n >nj w y conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
this solemn declaration conscientiously uci.c b (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG.
ACt Subscribed and declared at Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand
before me.
Uhe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is.
PACKET OF TEN. 10d.
m
u
&*J
m
PURE, WHOLESOME,
INVIGORATING.
“ 0.T.” is just the very
drink for the critical man
in search of a perfect bever-
age. It is natural, whole-
some, invigorating, deli-
cious—a drink guaranteed
at every point. Mixed
with water, wine, spirits,
lemonade or soda it has no
equal as a winter beverage.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Sydney :
Orme, (Keigwin & Co.
Brisbane:
Quinlan, Gray & Co.
Adelaide: Tolley & Co.
Fremantle : Tolley Ltd.
[2
JDIXONtO
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Cenuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY anti CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England—l/I\, 2/9, 4/6.
Cw TP'
<•
IBS2I
Beware!
The Drugs!
Beware the pills, the powders, the tonics. If they do
not actually injure your nerves and ruin your stomach,
they deceive you into giving time to wasting disease,
nerve exhaustion, debility or rheumatic conditions to
work further ravages in your constitution, because they
hide the real trouble by affecting the symptoms. They
give false strength or deaden the nerves, so that pain
ceases, but they do not make real strength or remove the
cause of the pain. They make you feel better when you
are really growing worse. Death lurks in a remedy which
hides the danger. Don’t imitate the foolish ostrich, who
hides bis head and thinks he is safe. Don’t hide the real
danger from yourself by means of drugs which stimulate
or deaden the nerves, and which ruin the stomach, and al-
low the inevitable total collapse or incurable state to come
uo unchecked. If you suffer from Nervousness,
Exhaustion, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Stomach Kidney or Bowel WeaK*
ness, Loss of Vitality, LacK of Vigor,
Varicocele or Rupture, use Na'u e’s cure —Electricity—as applied with the celebrated
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECJTRIC BELT
audit will cure you if you are curable. Electricity is nerve food, no disease or weakness can exist in a body that is
plentifully supplied with it. Our Belt will not burn, sting or shock, although the heating, vitalizing thrill can be felt all through
the body as it pours its life-giving power into the nerves, blood and tissues, building them up and driving pain, weakness and
disease out of the system. . . . Our Belts are sold in every civilized country m the world. The thousands of
testimonials we have received from all parts of Australia, and the many years of success we have had here, are absolute proof
that Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is the standard. We have many imitators but no equals. Don’t be misled by
false “Free Belt” offers, or the extravagant claims of those who promise an impossible appliance as a bait for a
20-guinea course of drugs. Don’t taHe Drugs ; use Electricity alone as we apply it and you will have
nothing to regret. Our prices are within the reach of all. All Belts are sent by
parcels post, carriage and duty free to any part of Australia.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
It gives the prices and all information about the belts. We will
mail it, together with some of our testimonials, FREE, post paid to
all who write us, and our specialists will give you a diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict confidence.
the mclaughun go., Dept. 10,
Office Hours —
9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
Castlereagh and Market Streets. SYDNEY.
R. CORCORAN
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STS., SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book,
Testimonials and Price List.
Name
Address
lie the land hunger. Recently a fam-
ished, but poetic, hunter of soil, while waiting in
the precincts of the Melbourne Lands Depart-
ment to appease his appetite in that respect,
dashed off a little thing on the blotting-pad :
This is the house of red tape,
In the city of Wait-a-while ;
The region of cuffs and collars,
The place of the eye-glass smile ;
The club of the greasy squatter
And the politician bland,
Where the man must wait on the doormat
Who wants to go on the land.


“ Cross Nibs ” keeps bad company, and
reports the result: —
Mozzer, erstwhile doctor’s coachman, was down at the
Flying Cork Hotel, with two companions. He wore signs
of recently-healed abrasions upon his physiognomy.
“ I tugged me port away fr’m th’ ole' Pill ’n’"Powder
larse Chewsdee, Squidder,” he said, addressing the stoutest
member of the brace.
“S’truth, y’r a dead dozer t’ leave a prime plotch.
What d’y’r say, Buzzy ? ”
The last-named person yawned lazily, and remarked,
“Gimme gig-guidin’ t’pokin’a pick ’n’shovel inter th’
continent ev’ry time, in my hours uv toil.”
“C’n y’r tear another taste inter y’r?” asked the
doctor’s driver, as he detached some silver from his hip-
pocket.
“ I cu’d splash a few on a tough thirst,” said Squidder.
Then the barman arrived and requested them to
“ screech their stimulants.”
“ Mine’s a glars uv J. Bull ’n’ bitters,” answered Buzzy.
“ Trickle out a pair uv ales,” ordered Squidder.
“Couple o’ pulls o’ th’ pump in a pewter,” said Mozzer
as he gathered up a handful of broken biscuit from the
luncheon tray.
When the refreshment was served, he gazed critically
at his acquaintances, and, lifting his cordial, observed,
“ This is th’ tincture that tore me off th’ physic perch.”
“ Dicken t’ th’ recitation,” sneered Squidder ; “ fasten
y’r face to it ’n’ lap away.”
“ ’E moans like a mulcted miser,” laughed Buzzy.
Mozzer tilted the pot towards his trachea, exhausted
the contents, then placed the empty vessel upon the
counter.
“ Mops ’em up marvellous,” suggested Squidder.
The coachman grinned cynically. “ Look ’ere,” he
observed, “ Pll tell y’r ’ow it biffed me off me branch. I
come in ’ere larse Chewsdee with Nut Cooper, ’n’ started
sippin’ ’em up sudden. I got back t’ th’ ole pulse-
toucher’s reelin’ a road wide, with two bottles uv brew
under me feedin’ limbs f’r ballast. I ’ad been on th’bunk
in th’ coach-’ouse about ten minutes, when th’ missus
beefs out, ‘ Gawge, did ’ger water th’ stag’orns?’ I must
’er felt blanky obnoxious in th’ block, f’r I ambled out
with th’ labelled lush ’n’ roared : ‘ Madam, will I scatter
some shicker over ’em f’r a change ? ’ She skipped inter
th’ kitchen ’n’ said t’ th’ slavey', ‘ Gawge is gittin’
delearyous. I ’ope ’e won’t do any ’arm till
th’ master arrives.’ I just ’ad me eye-lids ’ung
f’r slumber again when Mr. What’s-y’r-trouble bungs
inter th’ crib ’n’ starts arskin’ nasty questions. A
doctor’s no bloomin’ ’ero to ’is groom, y’r c’n take it fr’m
me ; so I swung f’r his melon with a bottle loaded t’ th’
capsule. It missed b’ a mile, ’n’ then ’e started t’ place
’s closed fingers upon me fevered brow in a fast ’n’ furious
manner. I wuz just thinkin’ uv takin’ the count out,
when madam rushed inter th’ whirl, dragged ’ifn off, ’n’
told ’im not t’ degrade ’imself. Strike me saucy, why ’e
was all out doin’ that t’ me. Enny’ow, th’ ole Pill tossed
me silver across ’n’ said ’e wuz sorry t’ part with a ’andy
young feller like me. I told ’im ’e wuz a ’andy ole bloke
’imself, ’n’ th’ way ’e piled the punches inter me person
wuz supplyin’ it t’ satisfy a pug-patron. ’E snickered
a few ’n’ said ’e’ ’ad collected them at college. I bounced
off th’ boundary before th’ ole girl chatted me f’r th’
change uv ’alf-a-dollar she’d given me to buy a tray’s
worth uv mullet f’r th’ Maltese cat.”
“’N’what are y’r doin’ f’r y’r dough now?” inquired
Buzzy.
“ Nuthin’, but I’m clutchin’ a cop at th’ Union bottle-
yard next week.”
Squidder struck a match, ignited an inch of stained
cigarette, and after slowly exhaling a cloud of smoke,
murmured reflectively, “ You’ll be at th’wrong end uv
th’ game, Mozzer. Gimme the back o’ the bar before a
cemetery uv dead marines.’’
Australian Mutual
Established 1549.
For Life
Provident Society.
Assurance on the Mutual Principle,
HAS MONEY TO LEND Secu^ it y ot Freehold or uaseh o^
* w City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IMF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. •
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... Is
Packet of Ten 10d
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant:
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd ~ and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
yINCREASES THE FOOD N
VALUE ENORMOUSLY^
lancet. •
COCOA
?v
10 TIMES MORENUTRIT I.OUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA ,
L DELICIOUS A
HT DIGESTIBLE^fI
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
HOLLOW ATS PILLS
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ” or “ out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
V
AND
ffINTMENT
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of 1 Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE.—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.vS.W.
2T/>e LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
mfmwmfkf u 1
{!SKSSSI2??5
No. 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
m
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14s
CANT
B
BEAT
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted witfi moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
Sizes —
4in., 7/6 ea. ; sin., 9/6 each
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind tiie Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught V 3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. Aew
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting And
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR " PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occiir to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, <fec., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamf on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 38 (id. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I.jST - Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovkp.s’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Drf.ams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 19 uJ. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alb Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
tbe Society or
Manufacturers
and traders, £td.
For the protection, encouragement ana
development of the A utomobile Industry.
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
which will be pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
Traders who can best supply
their needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure),
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationary Motors,Component
Parts, Tyres, or Accessories.
Address :
Maxwell House, Arundel St,
London, England.
EBSD ’ MARK, M3A.RN
HOW
TO
LOOK
YOUNG.
'-a
-jr
HOW
NOT TO
GROW
OLD,
TWAIN’S
GREY HAIRS are quite in keeping with the role played by the
GREAT Humorist. But ordinary men desire to retain their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty. Women
desire 10 retain their youth and beauty. Darken grey hairs with
LOCKYER’S RES H T A <i R REB
m bottles 1/6, oj all chemists and stores.
•J.SVI 01 NMONX
««LIII
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
simply address
“‘Greener, Birmingham-”
DYSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,”
lightful and wickedly true.
4s.
Gd.
“De-
MOLLER’S
HYDROXYL-FREE
COD LIVER OIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption and
all Lung Complaints.
>ls a food and_ huiltlf-r'-uft for botlt children
and adults, MQLLER'S OIL is unoguaHa! . .
BECAUSE; It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE GOD-LIVER OIL
A GUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS S.4YS ABOUT MOLLER’S
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL .
Medical Review.—“ We have no hesitation in saying it i« quite unexcelled. It is
of a pale golden colour ; it is free from any trace of free acid ; it is easily assimilated,
and, what is most important, it does not cause eructations or nausea.”
Medical Press.—“ Messrs. Peter Moller, Ltd., by the introduction of their
Hydroxyl-Free Cod-Liver Oil, have placed in the hands of medical men a most excel-
lent and valuable preparation which is almost free from taste, limpid in character,
and, what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable ‘ repeatings ’ we
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
MOLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the only Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
. PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
§£ Brifisb=Hustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES ,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter :
Copy of Testimonial.
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
Lady Mary Lygon wishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
(Signed) C. JARDINILR.


hfiiniii
[
if NF not EN ° ufccora ® of a very severe cold, and is dangerous
it not properly controlled, as it is likely to develon into
n^TbVLt?n iB 'Jte d , an^rs of . fchese oompStlo^
teasnonnfnl rl 1 r - Sheldon s New Discovery be given in
mnedv will ***7 tW ° ,° r three hours, as this powerful
dy will at once relieve and soon cure the worst cases.
A MOTHER’S LETTER.
*?“A m T elf ™ ld the children have had
we haZr,77 y ’ h , Ut t ! mnks t 0 Dr - Sheldon’s New Discovery
avnnnp ? 2. ie . reco y ered - 1 would recommend it to
anyone suffering from colds.
Mrs. HARGREAVES,
harparilla Hotel, via Echuca, Victoria.
r
f s
UCHS i/e 37-
OLDS AND J 5/-
ONSUMPTION
3Hofl
'.Js
B mm
Couchs
Colds
Co o u p
Consumption
AND ALL
Bronchial
Pulmonary
Affections
op THE
Throat,Lungs
and Chest.
snraM
THESE
PRIZES
FREE
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we offer FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or 6d. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Pilled Muff
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing' Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money—-just your name and address.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
f Post Card \
Department/ j
476 George-streef, SYDNEY,
BEWARE ! CHECK THAT COUGH.
The simple cold or cough is man’s great enemy. Directly assailing the chest, it inflames the lungs,
impedes healthy respiration, and makes possible the following grave diseases Pneumonia, Pleurisy,
Catarrh, Throat Atrophy, Influenza, and last, but not least, Consumption. The careless possessor
of a cold takes great risks. The cold destroying sleep and health may be cured rapidly by that
unfailing remedy, MRS. MACLURCAN’S COUGH CURE. Its effect is unfailing, aiding respira-
tion by killing the “ cold-germs,” removing the cause, and curing speedily. MRS. MACLURCAN’S
COUGH CURE may be obtained from all chemists or storekeepers throughout the Commonwealth. It
Price l'/6 per bottle. Mrs. MACLURCAN’S Cough Cure “Cures.”
Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
*c 11 u nTtr
VO #v
£
O CARBq
m
S
<?
5%
§?
<<;
<o
1
£RGt^
i
l
I
*
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP.
6d. per Tablet.
ECKERSLEY’S
EUCALYPTUS
TT T Purest A Strongest I j'l |
i I Analyst'! Certificate I; : I
■ j'.i or Every Bottle. I I
Mail us your order direct for a 16 ounce bottle of
ECKERSLEY’S EUCALYPTUS. You get double the
strength and eight times the quantity of oil contained in
ordinary bottle (16 ohnces).
Posted all over Australia for 3s. 3d.
ECKERSLEY (£L SONS,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
The Friends of Fallen Fortunes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE battlefield behind us,
And night loomed on the track ;
The Friends of Fallen Fortunes
Were riding at my back.
Save those who lay face upward,
Upon the sodden plain,
Not one of all I’d trusted
Was missing from my train.
A draggled train and blood-stained,
With helmets dented in,
With battered, loosened armor,
But with a cheerful grin.
No dark look bent upon me— ■
I noted to my shame
That Friends of Fallen Fortunes
Are aye the last to blame.
Not one of all I’d trusted,
Who’d followed to their cost,
Save those who lay face upward
On that red field I’d lost ;
And here and there a soldier
I’d trusted not at all,
Like an unexpected mourner
At a poor man’s funeral.
And as the horses stumbled,
And footmen limped along,
They all joined in the chorus
Of a good old Next Time song.
Behind us in the distance.
By hill and lane and wood,
My ever-dwindling rear-guard
Fell back again and stood.
They recked not wounds nor losses,
They all seemed very kind,
From knight who rode brside me
To boor who limped b;hind ;
And some borne in their litters
Through that long agony—
Their death-white, pain-drawn faces
Had no reproach for me.
And so from noon till darkness,
And morning grim and grey,
The Earl’s son and the Peasant’s
Were brothers that dark day.
I straightened in the saddle,
And proudly glanced me round—
I still w'as king of comrades,
Whoever might be crowned !
•I straightened in my saddle,
And glanced round proudly then—
Whoe’er might reign a season,
I held the hearts of men.
No powder of gold can buy them
While battles shall be fought—
The friends of Fallen Fortunes
Are never to be bought.
Through rain and marsh and hunger,
To what their fate might bring,
The remnants of my legions
Toiled on to join their King.
From north and south the captains
Of scattered bands won through—
Beneath its beaten colors
My beaten army grew.
And in the West before us—
The West was ever thus—
More Friends of Fallen Fortunes
Were gathering food for us ;
For refuge and for succor—
For safety, food and rest —
The best of beaten armies
For ever seek the West.
With these men for my captains,
When we marched east again,
Our enemies were scattered
Like dust across the plain.
Our city lay before us,
And as we marched along,
We joined the grand old chorus
Of the glorious Next Time song.
And though they wear no armor,
And bear no blade nor bill,
The Friends of Fallen Fortunes
Are riding with me still ;
And, many times defeated
By city, field, and sea,
The Friends of Fallen Fortunes
March on to Victory !
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
Sheep and Shepherd.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONE who has been used to the brisk,
stirring life on a cattle station does not
easily adapt himself to the tame, com-
monplace routine of sheep. The first is poetry,
the other prose; yet the prosaic existence is re-
sponsible for three parts of the bush doggerel that
is written. It affords more time to dream. For
all that, sheep-farming is not a lazy man’s job.
Even on the tablelands of New England, the
river lands of Riverina, and the prairie lands of
the Darling Downs, it is the hardest of all stock
work; while on the runs of the Western Division,
in dry times, it is one of the short cuts to consti-
tutional ruin. It is significant that very few
aborigines will work constantly among sheep,
while they will live their lives out among cattle.
Nevertheless, sheep life has its gleams, and at least
twice a year it presents attractive features, when
the fleeces are falling, and when the lambs are
losing their tails.
Once all sheep were shepherded, and penned at
night. Occasionally some are still shepherded in
the trans-Darling country. Men follow in the
wake of thunderstorms in quest of a liquid deposit
where a flock may be pastured for a week or so ;
or flocks are removed from dried-out paddocks to
a distant bore, or into the open country—which
in good seasons is no man’s land, but in the time
of want is traversed by myriad flocks. Here the
old shepherding days are revived —the days of
small flocks and unfenced runs that gave employ-
ment to thousands of greybeards and others who
were unfitted for hard work, but who, with the
help of a dog, and carrying a gum stick in lieu of
a crook, could still follow quiet jumhucks across
hill and flat. Then the presence of hostile natives
made shepherding necessary—and likewise in-
teresting. Now 100,000 miles of wire fences do
the work, and an odd boundary-rider keeps them
in repair.
Old fellows, following flocks from place to
place, travelling for feed, talk of those days as “ the
good old times,” agitate their pale locks sorrow-
fully, sigh for the degeneration of the age, and
tell of their glorious experiences. I have met
them coming in from the north, and I have seen
some resting on the Darling Downs—pitiable
wrecks who were still vibrating from fever and
ague, whose eyes were dim and lids aflame from
sandy blight. But the good times are always at
the back of yesterday. We who feed our dried-
out flocks to-day on the open country, who dodge
among the lignum of the Bulloo floodwater,
anathematising our neighbors for coming too near,
and thus making more work ; who foregather at
evening by the drains and channels diverging from
Tinneroo Bore, and on the fringes of Thurloo
Downs, raising one unanimous voice that every-
thing is as bad with us as it can be, will be talk-
ing 50 years hence of the good times we spent
there. What a mellowing hand old Time lias ;
what a glamor of romance he throws over our woes
in the course of a few decades ! The good times
of the past are the days when we were boys—and
wished we were men.
But the era of the shepherd is gone. Australia
is too big for shepherds, and no peregrinating
unemployed thinks of inquiring if such an expert
is wanted at the stations he passes. Selectors
here and there shepherd a flock, but the work is
done by the children, often by one or two girls,
who follow the woollies all day and yard them at
night. The little barefooted shepherdess, bringing
her flock to the fold, is a touch of old-world
romance that has been sadly neglected by the
Australian poet and artist ; yet the environment
of the Australienne is more picturesque, with the
great gums and ironbarks towering over her,
millions of brilliant-hued parrots screeching and
chirruping in their tops, the magpie warbling its
good-night song, the crow of evil memory watch-
ing the sick, and the skreel of the curlew and the
plaintive call of the mopoke ringing from hill
and scrub as the sun goes down.
The old man, who finds the usual avenues of
employment closed against him on account of his
a -S e > yet is too proud to live on charity, sometimes
gets a little flock to tend for a month or so.
Then he resumes his wandering, regretting the
good times when his sort were wanted as
shepherds everywhere.
I spent some days with one in the open country
in the neighborhood of Tinneroo. It was not a
time when homesteads are abandoned, and families
migrate and follow the vanishing reservoirs like
birds ; but “ Old Jack ” shepherded a flock every
summer in this particular quarter. He was a tall
man, with a long grey beard, and must have been
quite 60, but he was still wiry and active. He
was not an old-timer at this work ; he had been a
drover and stockman, and had pioneered on more
than one run. He lived in a tent, and had a
temporary brush yard to hold his sheep at night.
Dingoes troubled him, and the ominous rumble of
rushing hoofs and the barking of his canine assis-
tant would rouse him out more than once between
dusk and dawn. When the dry time lasted longer
than his main pasture, and compelled him to shift,
he had calico hurdles with which to make an en-
closure.
His was a lonely life. Dawdling after the sheep
all day through the bush, looking now and again
at the sun to note the time, and anon sitting
under a tree to smoke a pipe, while crows cawed
around him, and the eagle-hawk, with a critical
eye for fat lamb, preened itself overhead. He wrote
poems in his pocket-book, and recited them to his
dog. When that patient animal went to his happy
hunting grounds, the ancient “In Memoriam ”
doggerel would find a fitting place on his monu-
ment: “Affliction sore long time he bore.” At
night, when the sheep were shut up, Jack would
repair to his tent to boil his quart-pot, and refresh
himself with salt-junk and damper. For an hour
or two after he would talk to himself by the camp-
fire. Then he would stretch himself, have a look
round, and turn in “all standing.”
One day, while shearing was in progress, a
rouseabout was sent out to tell Jack to bring his
flock in on the following day. The flock was
found scattered about the bush, but the shepherd
had disappeared. In dodging about after the
sheep, he had lost his bearings, having shifted to
new quarters, and during the first night out had
also lost the flock. When found, four days later,
he was standing on the brink of a claypan, which
had been filled by a passing thunderstorm, holding
a long rod in his hands. Now and again he would
swing it through the air, and call excitedly to
his dog, “Block him, Bluey!” He explained
that his sheep had all dived into the claypan, and
he was fishing them out. Later, he ascribed his
(Continued on next ‘page.)


KIDNEY TROUBLE affects people DIFFERENTLY
Though no two persons alike are
affected in precisely the same way by
kidney disorder, the danger is always
equally great. One man may suffer
from pains in the back and loins, or
from rheumatism—another may have
urinary troubles, and his eyes may be
puffy and swollen; one woman may
notice heart irregularity, she may be
sleepless, nervous, and despondent —
her neighbour may have all the
symptoms of dropsy or Bright’s disease.
It depends on the sufferer’s constitution
and the nature of the impurities kept
back in the body by the blood filters—
the kidneys.
Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills
Should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong. ■ .
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or in-
directly through kidney weakness or
inflammation; they drive out the uric
acid that irritates the kidney mem-
branes and clogs the passages. Doan’s
Pills help the kidneys in their great
blood-filtering work, and give tone
to the whole kidney organism.
J
z-r
X
)
iiMtiihiuuniimiim
j
r
r
m
PI
y
ttM!
lIMIIUIIIIMIIIIIH
iiiiimmiuuimim
WW
“Every -picture tells a story.**
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box, or
posted free by Foster.McCleilan Co., 76 Pitt-street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. S. O’Rourke, 39 Griffin-lane, Surry Hills, Sydney,
says:—“For nine years I’ve been troubled with the
kidneys. In that time I used all sorts of remedies, but
the first to do rne good was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills—these were Al. I used to get pains in the back
and across the shoulders, hot flushes of blood to my
head, burning pain under the eyes ; I was frightfully
nervous, and had palpitation of the heart. Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills started to relieve me when I had taken
a few doses. After I had taken them for a week, I felt
so well that I forgot to take them. Anybody who needs
a kidney medicine should get Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
Mrs. O’Rourke confirms the above five years later. —
“ I am free of every distressing symptom mentioned above,
and have been ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me five years ago.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., ex-Railway Guard, 749
Harris-street, Ultimo, says:—“Some time ago I strained
myself pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the
effect in the small of my back. For three solid months I
was unable to work. I had a very lame back, and a dull
pain through the loins and the kidneys, and my secretions
became unnatural and irregular. I used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and obtained wonderful relief. lam so much
better, I can now do heavy work. I am firmly convinced
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy,
and I never fail to recommend them among my friends.’
Mr. Carroll makes a second statement: —“I am still
well, and have never suffered with my kidneys since Doan a
Backache Kidney Pills cured me eight years ago.”
Backache
Kidney
strange behavior to a touch of the sun. coupled
with exposure, starvation and scare. They took
him to the homestead, and after a week’s spell he
went back to his lonely camp and told the quart-
pot what a qualified old fool he had been.
There were thousands like old Jack in the ante-
fencing days, and many not only lost their sheep
but their lives also ; and there were those of them
whose fate has for ever remained unknown. Jack
was not one who regretted the passing of the
shepherd. He finally joined the ranks of the army
of fossickers, and, for aught I know, may still be
chasing the elusive speck on the sunbaked fields
of Mount Browne.
Exclusive of tank-sinkers and fencers, who
mostly work under the contract system, the
average western station employs about half-a-
dozen hands —a blacksmith, a rough-carpenter, a
bullock-driver, a couple of boundary-riders, and a
general rouseabout or “wood and water joey.”
The cook and the Chinese gardener are not in-
cluded among “station hands.” Neither is the
manager’s principal factotum, who may be store-
keeper and book-keeper, or overseer. In any
case he’s another boss.
When there is a day’s mustering to do, you will
see the blacksmith mounted on a sorry-looking
crock, and armed with a lump of wood to induce
him to hurry occasionally ; the carpenter, wearing
one rusty spur ; and the bullock-driver in heavy
bluchers, which are thrust with difficulty into the
largest-sized stirrup-irons, and carrying the bul-
lock-whip fastened to a short stick with tying
wire. These are “sheep-station stockmen,” and
they are brilliant riders —some of them. I was
once riding with one of them, when he challenged
me to a jump over a 2ft. log. I accepted, and he
went 100yds. back and rode hard, but not neces-
sarily fast, at the obstacle. The horse cleared
it with several inches to spare, and though the
rider received a rough shaking and a slight shock
to the system, he was able to remount and ride
home.
Besides riding and following their special avoca-
tions, the three tradesmen mentioned have to
repair fences, yards, and the woolshed, pump
water from the well, and water sheep in the
troughs in summer, trap and poison rabbits and
dingoes, cut scrub, pull out bogged sheep and
skin dead ones, cut stacks of grass for hay with
reaping hooks, and do many other things. They
are the handy men.
At lamb-marking time the number of men is
doubled, and a special cook is put on for the out-
camp. He takes the swags, tents, rations, and
cooking utensils out in a springcart or waggonette,
while the new men, engaged for yard work, walk
along behind. If the horses are in good condition,
they ride with the cook. The outcamp may be
only six miles away, and it may be 20. Each man
has a waterbag, either carried in the hand or
swung under the vehicle, and when the camp is
far out a halt is made for lunch by the roadside.
They look like a mining syndicate going to the
rush.
The mounted men carry their bags strapped
under the necks of their horses. They leave early
in the morning for the first paddock. Here they
spread, keeping in sight of one another from end
to end of the paddock, and driving all stock
towards the centre men. It is slow work, the
mustering of a paddock four miles square occupy-
ing the greater part of the day. As the mob in-
creases, progress becomes slower, and good dogs
are much in requisition. But dogs soon tire on a
hot day, and if pushed too much they strike, and
take the shortest cut for camp. While a good
cattle-dog is required to bite and not bark, the
sheep-dog must “speak up” but never bite. So
the sheep-dog gets hoarse and dry-throated, and
requires a nip pretty often. This the owner gives
him by pouring a pint of water from the bag into
the dumped-in crown of his hat. The less barking
the dogs do, the more shouting the men have to
do, and it is not uncommon to see an unfortunate
dog being kicked and belted on the way for not
making enough noise. The owner objects to keep-
ing a dog and barking himself. The men are often
on foot, leading their horses, and bashing the
packed sheep with bushes. Sometimes a man,
having a' slow-starting horse, will jump off and
run after breaking sheep, that course being much
the quicker.
As they come in sight of the brush yards the
men of the camp contingent go out on foot and
meet them, some armed with bushes, and some
with old tins, which they bang with stones and
waddies; and each one dances the “shepherd’s
hornpipe” with great energy. They are useful at
the yard gates, being able to turn quickly, and
block a running string of sheep, while the black-
smith is pulling up, or the carpenter is hauling
his horse round.
The work in the yard is the merriest. There is
more barking and shouting, to the accompani-
ment of swinging bags and bushes, and the
whacking of tins, while the whole yard is ob-
scured with blinding dust, and the sheep are con-
tinually ringing and stubbornly refusing to go
through the gates of the inner yards that lead to
the race. At last a few are rushed in, and a, man
crouches behind the brush and stubs to hold them
there until the main mob is brought back to the
gate. Then the men jump and “shoo” and yell
and bang tins, and swing the jute goods and
shrubbery for another half-hour. By that time
the first yard is full, and when the dust has
cleared sufficiently for them to see where they
are, the whole performance is gone through again
until the two or three smaller yards are packed.
Then the sheep are jammed and shoved and poked
and prodded through the race, at the end of which
a man stands with a gate in each hand, opening
into three pens, and drafts the running string by
earmarks and faces. The least stoppage in the
race sets the corroboree going again in full blast.
When the pens are full there is a blessed respite
while the lambs are marked.
The men are dressed in all manner of overalls.
Some wear chaff and bran bags, with head and
armholes cut in the bottom and.sides; others
don old shirts, back to front, and hanging loosely
to their knees. The markers are ranged on the
outside of the pen, and operate on the lambs as they
are dumped on the rail by the catchers, who hold
a foreleg and a hindleg in each hand. Knives and
teeth are used alternately by the operators.
Splashed with blood and covered with dust, they
are as good as a turn in a circus when, the pen
emptied and the tails counted, they scramble over
fences in their fancy costumes and resume their
wild fandango down the yards. It is the shep-
herds’'fancy-dress corroboree.
At dusk the, worn-out men file down to the
camp, coated with dust from head to foot, hoarse
with shouting, and their eyes inflamed and half-
blinded. Then tents are pitched among the trees
by the side of a waterhole, or on the bank of a
creek. They are used only on wet or cold nights.
The men sleep under trees, using green leaves for
mattresses, and with mosquito fires smoking
around them. Supper is served on a bag spread
out on the ground, and the men sit on logs around
the fire, which is their only light, with tin plates
on their knees, and pannikins of black tea beside
them.
At daylight in the morning the work begins
Eigain, and sore throats from dust and shouting
are now evidenced on all sides. When the yard-
ful is put through, the horses, belled and hobbled,
are run up on foot, and another paddock is mus-
tered. The camp men meanwhile shepherd
drafted sheep, repair the damaged yard, and build
brakes.
Lamb-marking, like shearing, comes but once a
year ; but sheep are mustered and drafted scores
of times for other purposes. Then, when the
wethers, ewes, hoggets, etc., have been separated
and put into different paddocks, they have to be
daily driven off the fences to tanks, until they
become accustomed to their new conditions. With
a mob of stubborn old ewes, you travel at the rate
of one mile in two hours, and when you feel that
you cannot yell any more without doing yourself
some serious injury, you get off, and push and
shove and kick them along. Your dog has long
ago knocked up, and is lying somewhere in the
shade; your horse follows suit, and, tying the
reins to the stirrup-iron, you finish the heart-
breaking task on foot. Your track is strewn with
knocked-up sheep, and I have seen the manager
driving behind with drums of water, and a rouse-
about pouring the refreshment down the throats
of the perishing animals to revive them sufficiently
to get them to the tank. The year 1902 was a
perisher. Jupiter Pluvius had been napping a
long time, and the stock were on their last legs.
At some places the shearers had to go to the sheep
on the run, and shear them on tarpaulins; at
other places, rouseabouts carted them to the sheds
in drays. Those that didn’t die on the shears
were carted back again after the operation. For-
tunately, mustering with a horse and cart is a
rare experience, or even the veteran shepherd
would get him to a cattle ranch.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The Dolorous Gard.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
NOT here, not here, but under skies
Touched with a deeper, tenderer blue,
And changeful as a sea-maid’s eyes,
I built in dreams a home for you.
Far set in lonely lands of thought,
A fairy tower, serenely light
As some bright flower in fields unsought
That trembles to the starry night.
All down the silent galleries
My steps re-echo as I pass.
The sunlight falls in traceries
Of gold and crimson thro’ the glass
Of deep-set windows, richly hued
With many an old armorial shield,
Whose lions waded deep in blood
On some old, dim, forgotten field.
The heavy tapestries are still:
No hasty arm disturbs their folds.
The jasmine twines about the sill,
The nesting sparrow fearless scolds.
No voice rings thro’ the startled halls,
No shadow falls across the door ;
The pallid mirrors on the walls
No sudden image brightens o’er.
And sometimes, stealing, half afraid.
At even thro’ the closing gloom,
I find, not hitherto essayed,
A little, moonlit, empty room.
Here lies a book, the leaves still shut.
Here languishes, untuned and dumb,
A lute ; some blossoms long since cut,
Lie dead, or e’er the Queen should come.
And there are gardens, never sere,
Green-alleyed, faint with rose and musk,
That bloom for ever thro’ the year.
The fireflies flicker thro’ the dusk,
Wheeling their mazy dance aloft,
Where one tall poplar rears above
The fountain, singing sweet and soft,
Like music heard in dreams of love.
Sometimes I watch the peacocks strut
Where the old dial, throned in flowers,
Displays his motto, quaintly cut:
“ I number only happy hours.”
Till, by the shadows made aware
That the long day draws to its end,
I seek the winding turret stair,
And there a brooding hour I spend.
To watch the summer moon uprise.
Large, red ; even like that fruit of death
Which laid Troy low for Helen’s eyes,
And fair, false mouth and amorous breath.
And through the silence, pauseful, clear,
Like one who weepeth all alone
By night in some old house, I hear
The sea’s old, mournful monotone
Till, deep within the cloven skies,
A pallor slowly spreads and grows;
And on the heights the white mists rise,
And all the earth is flushed with rose.
The stars die slowly, one by one,
And, shrill across the dewy lawn,
To herald in the day begun,
Peals to my ear the bird of dawn.
Ah, stately palace ! lovely flowers !
From the wild world so far apart !
A sadness is upon your bowers,
And finds its haven in my heart.
How many months of sun and rain
Must fret the grey and lichened stone,
Before my Queen at last is fain
To hither come and claim her own ?
(For far from here, and under skies
Touched with a deeper, tenderer blue
Than gleams within a sea-maid’s eyes,
I built in dreams a home for you.
Ah, come, my sweet ! Not all in vain
Let me await you here alone.
Take up, my Queen, your rightful reign,
And come at length to claim your own !)
N.S.W.
F. S. BURNELL.


f
:S
“ I have worked on the Barrier off and on for several years, and
had to lose a good many shifts
through ill health. I could neither
eat nor sleep well. In fact, work of
any kind was out of the question
until I struck a good thing in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I had only taken one
bottle when I felt a lot better. In
all, I have taken seven bottles and
now am quite well. I always tell any
one that feels off color to take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and it will put them in
working order.”
J. W. Scott,
Broken Hill, N. S. W.
Imperfectly digested food breeds poison? and im-
purities which are quickly absorbed into the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
will strengthen the stomach and make the digestive juices more active.
As a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion we cannot recommend it
too strongly.
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you get
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other kind put up in imitation of it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., J. S. A.
f
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’ and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIE'S'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS. SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER
CASED CURB BANGLES, EREE to the value of ONE
POUNDS. All you have to do is to sEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward vou 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflo ver, Stock, Mignonette
Caudytpft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we wi'l send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list" WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS You may return the seeds it not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SPiND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn We defy contradiction when we asseit that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustratious.
\Q>
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co 52 BOND STSYDNEY. NSW.
SMYT4a
Superior to s
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases ■without
inconvenien'e
48 hours.
the name
M!DY
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
CURES
Australian Blight,Falling Eyelashes,Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, rlO, LambetU Hoad. Loudon, Eug.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address. •
In uae since 1596.
Vltfili
A MERRY-MINDED MAN
his temperament in his face. His eyes are laughing eyes.
His outlook is joyous and attractive. He is optimistic to a degree*
and you may be sure his body is attuned to his mind. No dyspeptic
he. No biliousness in his composition. No dizzy headaches in his
experience; and depend upon it he is a wise man as well as a
merry man, and
IS MADE AND KEPT SO
by the regular use of Beecharhs Pills. For it is now a generally
accepted fact that as a preventive and curative medicine these pills
are absolutely reliable in their results, and there are few troubles
arising from disorders of the stomach, liver, bowels,or kidneys that
they will not speedily cure. The ultimate result is the healthy
magnetic personality of the happy man or woman. You are certain
to carry a light heart if you feel really well, and this you
may always do
BY USING
BE EG HA M’S
PILLS. ■
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/lb (56 pills') «£ 2/9(168 pills).
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre- 1
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antisepticallv cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for (
bath or toilet, and a good saleguard i
against infectious diseases. 1
Sold by all .Chemists and Stores. (
dadeby F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.'
nn HE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
I Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
2?
sc
m
4^
SO
m
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY TOWN.
Simplv drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s til proved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all vases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free Sr,"®
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book' which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weaken any way
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paper <
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL 'quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 16s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. ..£1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Douhle-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellentstock,
with cartridge machine arid cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all Hies and affords comfort to everv home—
iu dining-room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
s*#s
to
are troublesome.
Clean, i eat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
seas n.
-old by
Wholesale
nruggists,
Groce s and
Hardware
Dealer i ,
among whom are :
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you'll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—•
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
STEEL WINGS
Tremendously Powerful,
Long Stroke, Automatic.
Australian Invention .
Write for Catalogue “C.”
STEEL WINGS
WINDMILLS can be In-
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney .
PATERNOSTER’S
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Goiit, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
*
V.
i
Her Theatrical and
I Domestic History.
Po6t Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMACURE
ERIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Herrons Conphs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT A Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemist*.
m
men
A IVP
#’WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
_ / from all Booksellers, Price 76. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting', up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted wHjt long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. So simitar book has ever been published.
FREE
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this jrreat work Free on enclosing- five stamps (the aetual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement, out out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments ”
on receipt, of this advertisement. Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elmley House, 1 ’
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


If You want
to wear an OVERCOAT
that will give you thorough protection as
well_ as a good appearance, this Military
Macintosh will please you.
It is a beautiful waterproof coat designed
to the War Office pattern, but quite suit-
able for ordinary wear.
The illustration shows the style. We
have them priced in various qualities at
30/-, 37/6, 55/- & 63/-
Carriage free.
Another splendid wet protector is our
Military Circular Cape, reaching to the
knees. Priced at 37/6.
Ask us to forward our Winter Catalogue,
No. 17, and quote your height and easy
chest measurement when ordering.
sniao aiv „U3Q
99
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by comnressed air, consuming: about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly? ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE. .CENTS ; - W . & j. tEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
JOHN W. JAFFRAY,
ENGINEER & MACHINERY MERCHANT,
Chambers, 32 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BUYER, SELLER & MATHiMCDV
IMPORTER of mivtKY
ENGINES, BOILERS, PUMPS.
Mining, Woodworking, Brickmaking, Refriger*
ating, Wool Scouring and Drying Alachinery,
Engineers’ Tools, Contractors’ Plant, &c.
Low Pricks and Satisfaction Ensured.
“JAFFRAY’S MACHINERY REGISTER.”
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd,
270 George Street. Sydney.
JOHN HURST & CO.
WatchmaKers and Jewellers,
HAVE REMOVED FROM
321 George St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydney
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
Family Stimulant.
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
K '£?HfCS
Wi ***iA
m o.
«5A
Mining Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR
ATLAS ENGINES & BOILERS
A Good Stock kept in Sydney .
ATLAS ENGINES represent the Highest
standard of manufacture, in every type.
A
Gutaiogues, Prices, and aii Particulars on application .
FERRODOR
Manufactured by
GRIFFITHS BROS. <a CO.,
... LONDON.
not affLtrainwatfr 0 "’ Stee1 ’ Tinlber ’ Bricks> Stone or Cemenfc * All colors in 6fcock * The onl y Paint whi * h thoroughly adheres to Galvanised Iron. It withstands Acids, Salt Spray, etc., and does
Qne P al »tu?g with “FERRODOR” will last longer than two paintings with any other paint. Galvanised Iron painted every four years with “Ferrodor” would be practically everlasting.
from a few of many Testimonials received :
MARYMMDCE CAS St COKE CO., Maryborough, Q.— We have used “ Ferrodor” over five years for our Gas
Holders, an 1 prefer it to other good and highly-recommended paints.
8, L. FORMER, C neral Storekeeper, Coulburn, N.B. W. —After four years’ wear the “Ferrodor” on my stores
at Captain’s Flat seems as good as ever. It is the onlv paint which has given me satisfaction on
Galvanised ron.
omxactors, Waratah, N.B.W. —We consider “Ferrodor” the best paint we have ever used,
'aj aeity is enormous—about 1000 square .yards per cwt.
b<. N.B.W.—Any person one using “ Ferrodor ” will use noother paint.
Dock St E igineering Co., 8/dney.—•“ Ferrodor ” stands heat and exposure, and remains
It does not crack or scale off, and covers more surface than ordinary paints.
SfIUTHOfJ BROS
The coverin
Dr. A. E. FITZPA
J. P. FRANK!. M(
firm and inf
MELROSE & FENWICK, Townsville, Q. —"Ferrodor” has proved far ahead of anything previously used,
although the climate and salt air is very severe on such goods.
C. PHILLIPS, Civil Engineer, Brisbane, Q. —“ Ferrodor ” forms a close, hard and tenaceous skin, which neither
cracks nor chips off. It appears to become part and parcel of the metal itself, probably due to some
chemical affinity between the base of “ Ferrodor ” and the metal.
LAUNCESTON CAS CO., Lsunctstcn, Tasmania.—We have used “Ferrodor” for some five years on our Gas
Holders and Connections, Condensers, Washers, etc., and have found it better than anything tried
previously. It stands remarkably well, and resists the action of ammonia splendidly.
INTERNATIONAL LIGHTINC ASSOCIATION, Hay, N.S.W.—I have used “ Ferrodor ”on weatherboard cottages and
other work, and find it the best paint I have used. It covers well and finishes a nice surface.
Amongst Many other Works “ FERRODOR ” has bee i used on the following
„ Hawkeabury Penrith, Menangle and Suburban Overhead Bridges ; Gas Works Bridge, Parramatta River ; Pipe Head, Rvde, N.S W • Victo
Melbourne • u...1:. ™:.. . . . - ■ -- - ■- 1 ’ - ’
Mt. By
Seal Rocks
Fort Seratohlev, Newcastle.
AH
ria Bridge, Brisbane ; all the Bridges over the Yarra, including Princes Bridge,
Vnrksj Welling*on Harbour Trust, N.Z. ; Wallarah Colliery ; Bellambi Colliery ;
sorth Head ; Inebriate Home, Hawkesburv River ; Hornsby, South Head,
Head. South Head, Middle Head; Submarine Miners’ Station, Chowder;
Storekeepers, or Direct from R, A. HERVEY, Corner Clarence & King Streets, Sydney, Sole Agent for Australasia.
Catalogue Vo. 1
describes
WATER WELL MACHINES
of many sizes, both traction and
non-traction, for wells 50 to 1000
feet deep, and gives full illustrated instructions for operating.
Catalogue No. 2
describes
MINERAL PROSPECTING MACHINES
for exploring for Iron, Lead, Zinc, Coal and all minerals. Several sizes both
traction ; also FLACMt OOXJB ¥S«*XY« MACMJTE* for
lake and river beds to bedrock. Can be used on boat. They make large holes
and bring to the surface everything found. Full instructions for operating.
traction and non-
Alluvial deposits,
through anything
Catalogue No. 2B
describes our
CORE DRILL
operative with above machines for coal prospecting. It is used instead of
the ordinary drilling tools on any well machine.
Catalogue Ho. 3
describes
OIL WELL MACHINERY
instruction* for operating.
for wells 1000 feet to 2600 feet deep.
Several sizes, with full equipment and
Keystone Driller Co.
Prodoct of 25 **■"’ experience in their manufact™.
se all over the world. GRAND PRIZE AWARD AT WORLD’S FAIR. Right Prices. Catalogus Pree.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
SOLE
AGENTS,
Sydney & Melbourne
