

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—
' - - —ii, , dfc. — *
R. G. WA.THLINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
6- &
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND ...
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
HOBART.
_uy., - -
Hadley s Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EWERY belt guaranteed.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
UaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wante. 1a
all, u)'aU&uf Mutfu uH* ie&t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of tha present day
are
TELEPHONES
66
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “ SILVERTO WN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch :
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSAGHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
ASTWAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MS’
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS, cNcfu Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Mailing Machinery.
LIDON SPA WATE
HEUDON SPA is the best Natural Mineral )
Water on the market . I
GOLL3IM & CO* s
Agents,
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1477.]
[Thursday, June 4, 1908.
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Eickard, Recent tl.vanide Practice, 10s, post Bd.
John’s Notable Australians, 2nd issue, 1908, 10s 6d, p. Bd.
Porritt, Sixty Years of Protection in Canada, 6s, p. 6d.
Dan and Willmott’s English Shop Fronts, 18s, postage 9d.
Gosse, Father and Son, new edition, 10s, postage Bd.
Castberg, Production, 10s 6d, postage Bd.
Tilby, The English People Overseas, 18s, postage Is.
Latouche, Anarchy, 7s 6d, postage 6d.
Lander, The Municipal Manual, 4s, postage 6d.
The Art of Showcard Writing, with 256 illustrations, and
32 lettering plates, 10s 6d, postage 6d.
Oscar Wilde, The Soul of Man, 4s, postage 6d.
JUST ISSUED. THE BOOK OF AUSTRALIA.
OFFICIAL YEAR-BOOK OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA. —Being- Statistics for
Period 1901-1908 by Commonwealth Statistician. Over 900 pages, freely illustrated, diagrams, etc., 3/6, postage 1/-
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
swr* an ideal remedy
G.WVIDSO/V.
<£**
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1,6
For Cougiis, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Orug
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bactericidal j,
as is creosote.” Ja
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the j 0
they have a beneficial effect, as their j oo j,
properties prevent abnormal fermentation o
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on receipt of
1/6 In Stamps.
G. HUDSON, Manufacturing Chemist, 5
7 Queen’s Place, Sydney
The RED PAGE
Tin Wrcathers
THE local bard has been busy lately ;
and the quality of three recent volumes
will, on the whole, bear comparison
with the latest output of English and Ameri-
can verse. Though, in their class, Herbert
Trench’s New Poems (England) embody some
of the highest poetry, Miss B. E. Baughan’s
Shingle Short, and Other Verses (Maoriland) is,
in another way, equally distinctive ; while
Mary E. Fullerton’s sonnets (Australian) are
as striking as those of that over-boomed
American, George Sylvester Yiereck ; and—
dropping abruptly to a distinctly lower poetic
level—Johannes C. Andersen (Maoriland) is
not much worse than a name of some weight
in England, Alfred Noyes. A consideration
of these overseas poets may be given later.
For the present we are concerned with
ourselves.
W
It occurred to that painstaking and verbose
person, Johannes C. Andersen, to rewrite
the theory of evolution in metrical prose
with rimed endings, and the dreary result
is The Lamp of Psyche (Lothian, Melb., 2s.
6 d.). Through innumerable stanzas Andersen
contrives to state scientific facts and sum
results with a certain neatness and precision
—that is all. For instance, it is undoubtedly
true :
That change on change
Has moulded plastic sea and land,
That plains have ris’n to mountain range,
That hills have burst and worn to sand :
What ages dawned and ceased to be
Ere sandy shores might marge the sea !
But there is no necessity for Andersen to re-
state the fact in rimed prose. Of course,
for those who like their evolution compactly
phrased, there is nothing wrong in poetry
like this—except that it isn’t poetry :
Our birthright we cannot deny,
We cannot sit aloof, alone,
Or say, The gathered gains shall die,
Or say. My acts are all my own ;
Unconsciously are we compelled
To use, transmit, the lore of eld.
But wfiilst as heirs we daily use,
Though leavening of circumstance,
A somewhat we must add, or lose,
With us is its retard, advance ;
Though whether we succeed or fail
We cannot break the old entail....
No more seems life than matter fired
With subtle power to evolve;
But how that power was first acquired
The probing scalpel cannot solve ;
For groping, reading the far first,
How was the cell to life coerced ?
Nay; further than that complex cell;
Far, far beyond or lens or knife :
In matter’s self the force may dwell
That thrills the matter into life :
Of life, sense, reason, faith,—the spark
Hides in the atom, cold and dark.
Andersen has some three hundred stanzas
like these. Those who want more can buy
the book.
There is, however, the right poetic stuff in
B. E. Baughan. Though the woof is
Browning, the web is indubitably hers.
Shingle-Short, and Other Verses (Whitcombe
and Tombs) contains much distinctive work.
Miss Baughan’s earlier books aroused a
quiet confidence in her future, and the name
poem of this book more than justifies that
hope. It is the story of a dulled intellect,
an outback rouseabout Caliban in his whare, a
man who suffers from what he expresses as “ a
booze inside his brain.” This shingle-short
talks to himself through the night; and this
monologue is artistically justified by the
fact that he—unlike Shakespeare’s villains—
is a person likely to hold converse with
himself.
It isn’t you what’s wrong, it’s me . . .
It’s ached too often to the touch.
Right back, at home, they next-door boys,—
“Let’s have a game with Softy’s toys.”
An’ Teacher yellin’, “ O you fool I ”
That week I’d wanted so at school:
An’ mother’s look, afore she died,
Me sharpenin’ scissors at her side,
An’ askin’ her why Granny cried ?
An’ since,—the curses an’ the blows.
The sells, an’ mocks, an’ filthy jests,
An’ harder hurts, that no one knows. —
Reckon they’ve taught it past all tests.
Besides, look here, I know I’m dull ! . . .
Look here ! It staggers me how God,
As crams a two-inch bit o’ sod
With littlest leaves, an’ blades o’ grass.
All perfeck, can a-bear let be
This hugger-mugger muddle, Me !
Ay, You could right me, yet You don’t.
You hit-too often as You aim
For me to think Your skill’s to blame,
An’, so it must be, ’cause You won't. . .
P’raps He can see some reasons for’t;
But I’ll be jigger’d if I can !
All I can see is, spilt an’ spoilt,
An’ murder’d to a shingle-short,
Matter that might ha’ made a Man.
\t>
Therein, with great art, Miss Baughan has
pictured her hero. Note the terse, homely
graphicness of phrase, the subtle touches,
such as “me sharpenin’ scissors at her
side,” which give the picture with the reti-
cence of the true artist.
But the shingle-short forgot God, and he
turns hopefully for an explanation to him.
We’re the tangle, but you’re the clue,
And what’s our tonnage alongside you ? . . .
God ! if we’re shingle-short—you’re not ! . . .
And still your turn-out’s like your Thought ?
What’s that? . . . you meant us this way then ? ...
There’s just one thing as He can’t make,
But that one thing is—a mistake ! . . .
I ain’t no failure, then, nor sport ?
You kind o’ wasted one ray sort ?
Right, God ! I’ll be Your shingle-short!
And so the dulled mind comes out from its
cloudy reasonings into a kind of faint dawn
of hopefulness ; and the long poem ends in
this delightful outburst of optimism :
Hullo, Sun ! You’re the bestest friend !
Dull’s the dinginess you can’t mend,
Burstin’ out with your kind old face,
Chuckin’ cheeriness round the place.
Ain’t the rain got the paddicks green ?—
“ If rain was honey, mud ’ud be money
Don’t the black o’ the logs look clean ?
Dandy, them puddles in between !
Each a-winkin’ his bright blue eye—
Little run-away bits o’ sky.
Minahs fossickin’ round about,
Thrush a-turnin’ his song-box out —
Feels so jolly he’s got to shout.
Reckon the wet’s a-polish’d the air—
Such a shininess everywhere ! . . .
vf/
It is an encouraging sign that out of the
South such a remarkable poepi should come.
It reads convincingly, and in it, as in the
rest of the book, Miss Baughan has given the
actuality of the M.L. landscape with an inti-
mate and cunning touch. Is not this Maori-
land ?
Logs, at the door, by the fence; logs, broadcast
over the paddock ;
Sprawling in motioidess thousands away down the
green of the gully,
Bogs., grey-black. And the opposite rampart of
ridges
Bristles against the sky, all the tawny, tumultuous
landscape
Is stuck, and prickled, and spiked with the stand-
ing black and grey splinters,
Strewn, all over its hollows and hills, with the
long, prone, grey-black logs.
And so she tells us of the township, “with
its dozens of passing people, its three bene-
ficent stores ” ; of her lover :
Straight: spirited : clean : look’d up at women,
and down on lies :
Cool, at a hurry : stuck to things : and took com-
mand with his eyes.
And of “The Hill” with its terrible secret:
Musterin’-days—that’s the terrible time ! —Sickish
I turn, an’ cold . . .
Men —an’ dogs ! —nosin’ over an’ over . . . an’
what if you up an’ told ? . . .
Twenty year! an’, only in rains (which I reckon’d
’ud help him rot),
Bet you there ain’t been more than ten minutes
together when I’ve forgot.
Men as I’ve known ’ud ha’ carried it off—married,
an’ started sheep.
Couldn’t—just think o’ the woman. . . . Besides,
what if I talk asleep ?. . .
Was that a shake?. . . Thank God, it wasn’t !
Shakes turn me silly wi’ fright.
For then’s your chance, if you’ve got a grudge, to
spit him up into the light....
v!/
Of the other work in the book, “ Early
Days ” is a charming story, happily told;
but in “The Paddock” she gives too free
rein to her ever-present tendency toward
garrulity. This, indeed, is the one fault
that disfigures a book otherwise strong and
earnest. But “Shingle-Short” has given
Miss Baughan a final place in the select list
of Australasian poets. The author is hereby
sternly commanded to produce a Maoriland
novel. She has the gift of expression, the
knowledge of life, the power of painting
atmosphere, the human touch. Why not ?
Mary E. Fullerton’s Moods and Melodies
(Lothian, Melb. Is.) shows us a deliberate
sonneteer, whose work maintains throughout
a high standard, but that is all. She is a
well-shod mountaineer who is familiar with
the lower slopes of Parnassus, but leaves the
summit for more masculine souls. Yet her
group of thirty-seven sonnets does not dis-
grace Australasian literature. None of these
sonnets is altogether bad, though many of
them are disfigured by the persistent pursuit
of The Big Word, finally captured in the
fourteenth line. She believes in closing the
sonnet-door with a Bang. As thus :
Unbreathed by her repudiating lips.
For the sweet kiss of altruistic night.
Once more the reckless Imp Catastrophe.
The pageant of fulfilled apprenticeship.
Yet she knows the value of a kindlier,
softer close.
Say not you wronged me, love ; I have no ears,
Only my lips to take those tears, those tears.
And all her sonnets have in them some
thought and much loving craftsmanship.
Three may be quoted :
LOVE’S EXCLUSIVENESS.
Oh, little heart ! the honey in thy cells
Is all for me; the house is far too small
To banquet more than her ; ’tis not for all.
In dainty plenitude the sweetness swells,
One pair of lips shall find it where it wells ;
And if, anon, there ooze beyond the wall
A tiny drop on which the hungry fall
Like greedy ants, one hath the secret dells.
Oh, little heart ! what are the big world’s woes?
The wide world’s needs? Do lovers know or care ?
Not more than cares yon peasant, as he goes
Home through the starlight, how those beings fare
Who, in wild terror in a world afar
Down gulfs of space fall with their falling star.
THE ARTIST.
How came this picture ? By your hand, I know,
Poured from yon boundless soul to fit a frame.
The Art is not the wonder, but the flame
That makes it infinite. How much you owe
That uncouth savage of the long ago
Who, gazing on the morning as it came
Across his forest, felt but knew no name
For the quick flash that lit an inner glow.
That thrill inspires this picture ; and all Art,
That holds some hint, some touch, some tone,
some word
That sweeps along the tideways of the heart,
Sets us on charmed shores ’mid sounds new
heard :
We are his children who are raised and stirred,
And you, his child, and Shakespeare, and Mozart.
THE IDIOT.
Sad are the eyes of her who sits apart
With her dead babe ; but sadder still is she
Who lays her idiot child upon her knee ;
Its every pulsebeat crucifies the heart
That loves, but prays : “ Perfection as Thou art
Take what the tides have made deformity,
And flung a wreck from the abysmal sea—
A wisp of flotsam, and without a chart.
“ I dare not let the instinct of my love
Cling to the woeful gift: Thine was the fault
That brought him where the darker waters move
And did not wash him in the wholesome salt
That for the tug with Time makes mortals fit—
Ere I shall love too much, his web unknit.”
The Tin Wreath
Bill’s
Opinion.
Oo’s the pote laureate, yer want ter know ?
Now blime, coves, the joker makes me blush
By arslcin sich a question. Yus,
yus, yus !
They aint got any reverent feelins
now,
Them blokes that torks about Horstralian potes
As if they was a mob of ewes an rams
Sent to the show. Taint right. Now, Bill an
me—
Bill Shakespeare’s often at our place these times —
Aint never found out oo’s the greater pote,
Himself or me. I think e skites the best
In blood an thunder pieces, though, my oath,
My own Ned Kelly epic aint too stinkin.
But when it comes to little simple things
About a bloomin kid oose mother croaked,
Bill owns that e carnt touch me. Then me hodes
About Horstralia’s navy. Bill carnt show
Nothin to equal them, an owns e carnt.
“ It’s great,” says e, “ now blime if it aint,”
An slaps is thigh. Now what I want ter know,
When all the bloomin torkers ave their say.
Wot price the best Horstralian pote, cash down,
Before I enter for the bloomin at
Of gory tin ? Lawson an Paterson,
Grant Hervey an the rest have wrote some stuff
That even Bill admires. Chris Marlowe dont.
But Chris goes always strong for Roderic Quinn,
An reckons Adams an Will Ogilvie
Ave points that rather andicap old Greene.
But wot’s the use of torkin, wot’s the price ?
There’s the respect that weighs with Bill an me.
JEMIMA BEAUMONT FLETCHER.
A Block Vote from
Eketahuna.
Please knock the moss off, and flatten
the dents of that symbolistic Tin Wreath,
ready for handiug out!
Am commissioned to
voice the sentiments
of our district, as to
poet with strongest and widest claim for the
Wreath Stakes. It is astonishing to note
the amount of keen interest being taken in
M.L. over the controversy as to which is the
best poet in Australasia. There is, how-
ever, no dissension on the subject in our
backyard (and most are Bulletin readers,
with long memories as to Bulletin writers).
Henry Lawson is herewith presented with a
block vote 200 strong. Naturally, you
ask why ? Because he has experienced
everything he has written, and has
the realistic touch to present it to readers—
not as a man in search of copy (padding an
incident with tons of superfluous detail), not
because he rises to superb heights—but just
because one recognises in Lawson’s themes
the touch of a kindred spirit and the man
who has been through it all. There are
plenty of Australasian writers who, for
polish and absolute correctness of style,
quite outclass Lawson ; but somehow the
dominant note of true sympathy seems lack-
ing. One cannot, in all fairness, gauge any
particular writer by his one admittedly best
effort, but musttake his whole work and judge
by evenness of quality and sustained general
interest, as a whole. Take, for instance,
Roderic Quinn. His “Hidden Tide” is
first-class, but a lot of his work is coldly
artificial, and, stripped of the pretty little
decorations with which it is furnished, leaves
only a bare, dull incident, leaving no per-
manent impression on the mind of the
reader. .. . Brady, Edmund Fisher, Will
Lawson, Hugh McCrae, Helen J erom
“Kodak,” “Milky White,”
Goodge, Evans, are all passable in thri
respective styles; but capacity to handle Bn h
jects seems limited. Adams deserves to h
remembered, if only for his intensely hum!!
Bereft. Quite agree with scribe that
Paterson would gam the verdict if left to pu k
lishers’ statistics, but there is a wide di
tinction between statistics and “ best poet*”
So I hereby (metaphorically), on behalf 0 f
our syndicate, shake hands with Henry Law
son, and (win or lose) congratulate him on
giving us a real good solid run for our con
fidence.
T. H. MCKINLEY.
As a counter-blast to “ John P.’s” dvna
mite (“ R.P.” 2/4/’08), the appreciation of
Kipling by W. B. Parker, in The World's
Work, is worth notice. Parker says : “ Th e
judges who awarded the Nobel prize made
no mistake. The world does not contain a
more impassioned idealist than he. He has
been, in fact, preacher-at-large to the English
speaking peoples, celebrating with admoni-
tory comment their triumphs, scorning their
weaknesses, castigating their sins, interpre-
ting their nature to themselves, and
striving with a passionate earnest-
ness to imbue in them the spirit
of devout and instant efficiency.
The eye is overworked in Kipling’s
stories. The pages remind one of the pic-
tured walls of ancient cities. Always it is
image, image, image ; whereas the memory,
the ear, the backward-reaching and reflective
mind is often untouched. May we not say
that the heart remains too often untouched ?
. . . Perhaps the failure to touch the heart is
even more apparent in the poems. . . . The
prose has a certain hardness of effect because
of the predominance of visual impressions;
the verse has a certain severity because of
the strongly moral quality of it. . . . The
prevailing influence of Kipling’s verse is his
moralising zeal.” As to Kipling’s method,
Parker remarks: “The page is scored,
interlined, marked and crisscrossed with
erasures, changes, elisions, transpositions,
until often scarcely a fifth of the original re-
mains unchanged, and it is to be remem-
bered that the first copy represented the
residue of a much larger output; for Kip-
ling admits throwing five-sixths of all he
writes into the waste-paper basket.”
The sheer sanity of Bernard Shaw is
vividly evident in his shilling reprint of a
long review published by him in America
upon Max Nordau’s Degeneration. But
The Sanity of Art: An Exposure of Current
Nonsense about Artists being Degenerate, with
a new preface, is more than a review ; it is
a delightful and incisive attack upon the
hypothesis that art in all its departments is
nothing but degeneracy. The one outstand-
ing fact of Shaw’s greatness is that he is never
out of date. This essay, first published in
1895, reads as if it had been written yester-
day.
Be your appreciation of Joseph Conrad
Korzeniowski (born Poland, 1856; first
book, 1895), I venture (writes “Taiwa”), to
place The Nigger of the Narcissus above even
Tuan Jim. The narrative runs easily and
straightforwardly, like a ship before a fair
wind. The psychology is almost perfect, or
at least appears so to one who has had ex-
perience of shellbacks of all sorts and con-
ditions. Clark Russell and Co. may give us
a black eye or two, but naught to the
purpose. Consider how the “crowd” are
drawn, from the nigger himself to the
ship’s boy, each individualised, all “akin
with the brotherhood of the sea.” The
mate is evidently a portrait from life. I
suspect the original was the chief officer of
the old Duke of Sutherland. Conrad was
ship’s watchman of her in Sydney harbor
one trip, not long before she was wrecked in
Timaru roadstead. Conrad composed the
book in French, translating as he
went along—one may trace the glitter-
ing Gallic clearness overlaid by the
more sombre Anglo-Saxon, but beneath both
lies the Slav—looking at life from a different
angle to us, may be seeing visions and hear-
ing voices unknown in the West. Lord Jim,
great as it is, is marked by Conrad’s second
manner, involved, burdened with what—to
the plain man—appears unnecessary detail—
dare I say, bluntly, long-winded ? Ihe
psychology, like a fussy and incompetent
shipmaster, interferes in everything. Why
the episode of Brierly’s suicide? Why the
half-dozen other episodes? “You are so
subtle, Marlow,” says a voice, and Marlow
is Conrad himself. May be the later books
are the greater to the critic, but the plaw
man thinks of those works inspired by
Conrad’s adventurous youth, and quotes
“Oh Youth ! The power of it, the strength
of it, the imagination of it.”


A.
7
m /Zi (ii A’qn'H .10
a-iiqddtfg qas qooojg P|OQ JC6—*xig *o^
H 9
eiaiiiiiiiiii
111 111
-/SI lv )O0 ! -/8Z ‘3JIH3O
qsAqiamv qiiAv ‘qooo-ia Pl°o JOSl— 'SSS ‘ON
-/g ‘ajiqddrcs jo
Aqng ;as ‘qoooja Pl« 0 - IC6— - xgg ON
/ll ‘MOOOJa PIOO ’lo6—'lsB on
■9 'ZE K ‘A'qmi
jo oJiqddt!s l ’qoooja Pio*) 'JOSl—' x 9f "ON
9/Zl ‘oahwo
IsAqiauiv ‘qoooja PIOO 'JOSI—‘ON
Excellence Economy
Combine in
Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices.
No. 1872.— Sterling- Silver-Mounted Cioth
Brush, Bird and Mask design,
6/9, IJ/6, 12/-
We offer three
quarters of a million
pounds' worth of
the World's choicest
commodities. Lists
sent Post Free.
No. 1834.—Silver-Mounted Comb,
Tortoiseshell Color, 6/-
Pgr
No. 1829.— Sterling Silver-
Mounted Mirror, Cupid
design, 32/6.
my
m
;v
ass?
¥M
M
o
?.'•
No. 1864— Sterling/ Silver-Mounted Powder
Boxes, Iris design, three sizes, 5/9, 8/-, 9/6.
Similar shape, Sterling’ Silver-Mounted Powder
Boxes, Oupid design, four sizes,
4/9, 6/6, 9/-, 12/3.
mm
tm
P^J/j
v •>
No. 1867.— Sterling: Silver-Mounted Powder
Boxes, Cupid designs, three sizes, 6/-, 8/6,11/-
No. 1862— Sterling Silver-
Mounted Mirror, Lily
Design, 32/6.
No. 32x.— 15ct. Cold Brooch, set 2 Diamonds
and 3 Rubies, or 2 Diamonds & 3 Sapphires, 29/6.
6
r»
@5
_
j j
No. 52x.— 9ct. Cold Brooch, 3 Amethysts,
1 Topaz, 20/-
No. 47x.— 9ct. Cold Brooch, 1 Emerald or
Amethyst, 11/6
fe\
m
start
No. 56x. — 9ct. All Cold Brooch, 9/6.
• J&&-X
si'fy
mi
m
No. 34x.— 15ct. Cold Brooch, set with either
Sapphire or Ruby, 25/-
No. 26x. — 15ct. Cold Brooch, set with either
Sapphire or Ruby, 15/-
No.
182915.
No. 1829 B —Sterling
Silver - Mounted
Mirror, Cupid
design, Cast border,
57/-
Sterlingr Sllver-
Mcunted Brush to
match Mirror (No.
18‘z9B), Cupid
design, Cast border,
best bristles, 42/6.
No. 1861.- Sterling
Silver - Mounted
Mirror, Floral
design, Cast border,
66/-
Sterling Silver-
Mounted Brush to
match Mirror (No.
1861), Floral design.
Cast border, best
bristles, 47/-
*
m
£-•
Mil.
No. 1861
Our Illustrated Departmental Price
Lists place the Vast Resources of
the New Palace Emporium at the
command of the most distant
settler. Send for copies, posted
free on application.
m
m
■«*y
No. 1024.—China Biscuit
“arrel, mounted Electro-
tro-plate on Nickel Silver,
choice design, 10/-
No. 1021— Oak Biscuit
Barrel, mounted Elec-
tro-plate on Nickel
Silver, 16/-
No. 858. —15ct. Cold, Pearl or
Turquoise-set Pendant, 75/-
No. 1 2178. —lsct. Cold, Pearl-set
Pendant, Amethyst Centre, £3 10s.
No. 2208.— 9 ct. Cold Photo.
Pendant, Gem-set, imitation
Sapphires and Rubies, 10/6,
12/6, 15/-
No. 906.— 9 ct. Cold Links, 14/-
15ct. ■„ ■„ 31/6
Silver, Hall-Marked, 3/6
A
No. 896.— 9 ct. Cold Links, 14/-
15ct. „ „ 31/6
Silver, Hall-Marked, 3/6
No. 897.— 9 ct. Cold Links, 13/6
15ct. „ „ 28/6
Silver, Hall-Marked, 3/6
No. 904.— 9 ct. Cold Links, 14/6
15ct. „ „ 34/-
Silver, Hall-Marked, 3/-
No. 905.— 9 ct. Cold Links, 14/-
15ct. „ ~ 30/-
Silver, Hall-Marked, 3/6
iJy
No. 894.— 9 ct. Cold Links, 11/6
15et. ~ ~ 25/6
Silver, Hall-Marked, 2/6
s'
No. 682.— Trinket Box, Electro Silver-plate
on Britannia Metal, chased design, 4/9.
Send for
our PRICE
LIST of
Celebrated
CLOCKS,
posted free
on request.
No. 1824.— Baby’s Silver-Mounted Hair
Brush and Comb, in case, 13/6, 15/-
No. 1874.— Sterling Silver-
mounted Hair Brush,
best bristles, Rose de-
sign, Cast border, 42/t.
Sterling Silver-Mounted
Hair Brushes, Bird and
Mask design, good bristles,
10/6, 14/-
No. 1863.
No. J B63.— Sterling-
Silver - mounted
Mirror, Watteau
design, 22/6.
Brush to match
Mirror (No. 1863),
Watteau design,
10/-, 16/6.
No. 1574.
We are Family Drapers, Complete
House Furnishers, Australian
Manufacturers, and Universal
Providers, and our unique system
of business is a guarantee of
Top Quality and Bottom Price.
No. 1818 B.—Handsome Nickel Stand,
Bevelled, Swinging: Mirror, Brushes
with black polished wooden backs,
nickel mounts, 28/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfielct Hill,


KiGBIT
and other A,so butchers’ produce, send *
SKINS; Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YD WE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS. HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account bales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage ot
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
IvREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. Mr Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptamkron. 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How TO MRBMKRISB I HYPNOTISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE,
Is. Love Under, the Tiles, Is; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
poBtl/3. Kreuteer Sonata, 1/- : post 1/3. Manning’s
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal op
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwivbs’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25. 6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins,ls. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover's Letter Writer,* Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winch-ester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOOr.
WINES rhe Best *2"*° only 0/ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, <fcc.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
&>
<3>
U
CL
I IP
7/nJIk V/777.
2-ft High
A LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR A BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life=siz?d Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-oainted
French c eation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, be tutiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye , and represented with flesh-col mre body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will standalone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng i arts are of best material rapid in its action, and
I cent ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WATCH
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
' Selling only 12 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send vou the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money b/*, aim we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advei Using our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seed.- in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice arid Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent v i'h the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given lor the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Eoy's Rif e.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright &Co., Seedsman, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
TMU*
f B'SSs
C O«S tTi
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
waids of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 3/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flindar’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
„ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House.
Hobson Street,
AUCKLAND.
*
FT!
1 •
:::• .
UP
and DOWN
You cannot have all level road. .The “ups and downs
must be encountered, and the Cyclist best equipped to ne-
gotiate them will get the most enjoyment from his tour.
Up the hill you want ease—the way to get it is to have a
variable gear. Down the hill you want safety—and that can
only be assured by the possession of a brake control of
absolute efficiency. In the
EADIE TWO'SPEED COASTER
both these are embodied. There’s a high gear for the level
and downhill spin—a low gear showing a 23% reduction for
the climb—a free wheel on both gears, and a brake that is
efficient under all emergencies, nsk your dealer for partic-
ulars, and write for illustrated booklet
D. Y. REHNIE, representing
BIRMINGHAM SMALL ARMS CO. LTD.,
4 Stock Exchange
Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
*
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
/ all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, e ng.


“ For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
•4H
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
ylifer’s
'Gherrif &eetoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &. Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
r
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to an one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Co ven try Fiyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
F ree to any port In the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Larue i profit <
easily made. Write a- once, using mffleient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO.,d,*. m LIVERPOOL.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
2\ years, was
troubled with
bronchitis, and
although I
tried many
preparations,
did not get
any better ;
very often I
was kept
awake with
her all night.
After the first
bottle of
SCOTT’S
Emulsion, her
LINDA MCKELLAR
cough was almost gone, and she was
eating and
sleeping well
I continued SCOTT’S and now she
is quite cured, and twice the size she
was before.” MAY McKELLAR.
91 Princes Street, Church Hill, N.S.W 29/7/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts. Here is
Proof in the Reason Why : The reason is
that of the numerous competitive emul-
sions (all copied from SCOTT’S which is the
original), none is made of the same in-
tensely nourishing ingredients by the
unrivalled SCOTT process. The advan-
tages secured by the SCOTT process are
perfect digestibility and absence of nauseous
taste and smell, both supremely important
points where delicate children are con-
cerned. Therefore, when purchasing, don t
ask for “ Emulsion; ” ask for and get
SCOTT
Emulsion
—the difference between them means a cure
for you! See that the Fishman with the Fish
is on the package. Of all Chemists and
Dealers in medicine.
IRISH
G^°
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . , .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption,
Av*,
PiF*
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
The New Frag'rant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
6/4
Tobacco
<S> Manufactured in
Richmond Virginia.
® by Larus & Brother C°
Packed hy RTowns * Co. Agents,Sydney,
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot jrefc
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile 'reduced) of 2oz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
A. @> F,
9
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Slot ice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd '
Limited.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Debt.
I spoke to a man a week ago at the corner of the
street;
To-day there is no light in his eyes, and in his
heart no beat.
And the slow black plumes go nodding by at the
corner of the street.
He was neither friend nor love to me, but only a
man I knew,
And down in the busy walks of life no personal
loss I rue ;
Never a blank is left for me with the loss of a man
I knew.
My hands are full of flowers to-day, of crimson
and gold and white.
Someone I love in the star-still hours left them at
my door last night,
The rose of red and the daffodil and the dear, tall
lily’s white.
Since life has given to me so much, must I not be
giving too?
I will creep out in the moonless hours, in the
star-gleam and the dew,
And place love’s gift on the lonely grave of the
unloved man I knew !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST .
I Know a Little Lady.
I know a little lady—
A treasured one is she ;
And where the bush is shady
She often strolls with me.
She nothing knows of cities—
Their glory or despair ;
And yet she loves and pities
The crowded people there.
She nothing knows of Letters,
And lost is she to Art
(She says the twain are fetters
That keep true souls apart);
And yet she loves the sighing
That echoes thro’ the pines
When western winds come prying
Amongst their swaying lines.
She likewise loves the glories
Of sun and moon and stars,
And thrills to hear Night’s stories
Sobbed on the river bars.
She says the Bush is splendid,
And there she is content;
For Care has not extended
To where her days are spent.
I know a little lady—
A lonesome lass is she;
But where the Bush is shady
We walk for company.
We never talk of Letters,
We seldom talk of Art,
Because the twain are fetters
That keep two souls apart.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY .
Springtime.
Earth heaves ; it is springtime :
Come, love, with me, lest
Spring passes and leaves you
No babe at your breast.
A lifetime, a moment
So life be complete ;
You are ripe for the wooing,
All sun-kissed and sweet.
The secret you guarded
I yesterday guessed.
My sins are forgiven,
Your lips have confessed :
I’ve taught you the mysteries
Of kisses, my sweet,
With the gum-boughs above us.
My heart at your feet.
Earth sings : “It is springtime !
Haste, girl, to him, lest
Spring only bequeath you
Tears in your breast! ”
Tears at the lone fireside !
O, think of it, sweet,
When you might laugh with lover
And babe at your feet !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY .
A Jug of Wine.
Pursuing Omar.
A book of verse as pillow for my head ;
A Jug of Wine —what is the use of bread ?
And your voice singing in the wilderness—
Why, even that would cause me little dread !
A book of verses of a decent size
Can make a pillow that the best might prize ;
And you —the you that always will intrude—
Why, you can hunt away disturbing flies.
Sing if you will; in a suburban street
I live my days, and there much music meet.
I doubt if you such discord can create
As when the neighbors with their songs compete.
But why the bread, that happens in the line ?
Is it the poet’s, or the flies’, or thine ?
Perchance it is a pillow for your head—
My thoughts are centred in the Jug of Wine.
N.S.W.
HAMER .


r
3
o
£
£
msmm
c
TVW
WUNDERLICH
< ART METAL 88 ffi
CEI LINGS
Originated by expert Designers • «
Modelled by first-class Artists « •
EMBOSSED BY
HIGHLY-TRAINED SPECIALISTS.
Erected by competent Tradesmen «
Decorated by skilled Colorists • «
Embossed by highly-trained
Specialists by means of powerful
Drop Hammers, which produce an
impression - Sharp, Clean, and True.
Write for Illustrated (Balalogue.
V)6e XD underlie!) (Veiling dr Roofing @oy„ jfatd.,
SYDNEY: 56 PITT ST. MELBOURNE: 123 QUEEN ST.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy arid Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(I.ate with . . .
Miss A'an Biiakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Oastlereag-h Streets.
m~ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
9
S
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures
robust health.
"(s>/i.e *Jcyy
of* Living (
-A,
sw
40,000 Tin Cans a Dav
%/
ARE made in one of The Sherwin-Williams Co.’s tin
can factories. The Sherwin-Williams Co. finds it
necessary to operate three tin can plants in order to
produce enough cans to fill the demand for Sherwin-
Williams Paint and Varnish Products. The output of one
plant is 40,000 cans a day—over a million a month, the
______ other two are busy, too. These are the small packages only
and do not represent the large amount of goods put up in bbls., y 2 bbls.!
kegs, etc.
There’s a reason for the great demand for Sherwin-Williams Products.
They are the highest quality paint and varnish products in the world.
It will pay you to use them. There is a special product for every
purpose. Each is the very best for its particular use that it is
possible to produce.
When you have need for Paint or Varnish in your Home,
Shop or Factory, or anything in them, ask your dealer for
Sherwin Williams.
Write to-day for valuable little booklet, “ Who Makes the Best Paints and Varnishes.”
'4-
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. Morrison, Sydney, Neui South Wales.
J. GRAHAM & SON, Wauerly, Sydney, New South Wales.
A, PARSONS & Co., Wollongong, " “ "
D. COPELAND & CO., Wagga Wagga, “ " "
FREDERICK Ash, LTD., Newcastle, “ “ “
Charles Regan. Tamuiorth, “ " «
T. J. Phillips, Dubbo, “ “ "
bracey’s Limited, Lithgow, " “
JOHN Meagher & CO., ltd., Temora, New South Wales
BROOKB, Robinson & CO., Ltd., Melbourne, Victoria.
CROOKS & BROOKER, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
COUCHE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & CO., Townsville, Queensland.
R. S. Exton & Co., Brisbane, Queensland.
HOCKLEY & Co.. Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
Mr. FRED C. DONNISON, Loch Box 877, Sydney , New South Wales.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*o*U*l*S Velveteen
DON’T FORGET
THE CHIFFON VEL=DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
. rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
To be obtained, from.
Drapers and, Silk Mercers
throughout, the Colonies.
!S STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
Here's a Bargain
Tins Nkw
FASHIONABLE MOUNT—
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch O /
Post Free, “
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE,
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Illustrated Price List Free.
m
Pale Blue Bead Necklets, 1/- Each.
The very Newest Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock.
Write early it you wish to secure one.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mention The Bulletin.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living in it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuilding's, etc., and get our price.
5 Mutual Life Euildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.-
ARTHUR R. LOM \X, Maxland,
Mungindi—
“ My contractors say it is the best wire
they have used. By this mail I am
ordering a further three tons.
H. L. M. CROSSING, Kcclcndi,
Pilliga—
“ Have proved it to be in strength all
that is claimed by the makers.” -
W. B. PERRY, Comp'on Station,
Narramine —
“A vast saving in cost ... A
better fence than ordinary wire.'’
CHAS. L. BADGERY, Binda-
gundra, Coulturn-
“ It gives the greatest satisfaction.
Please forward another ton.”
E.RICH €> CQ.IIS. ' f/
SYDNEY £> BRISBANE
SAMPLES FREE
ON APPLICATION


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1477.
THURSDAY, JUNE 4, 1908.
Pkjck 6l>
THE MIRAGE.
I CAN SEE IT ALL RIGHT, BUT IT TAKES A WONDERFUL TIME TO GET TO IT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SITRSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• f'
Half-yearly ... ... ... n t n
Quarterly ... ... ••• 0 7 0
By sending direct to Thk Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have, Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
lloir to A ddress J.otters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bullrtin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social,or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. . ,
Thk Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamvs
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. _ The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in !thick anil White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topicai drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interetting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gofdon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London. W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., I ancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. 11. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Xl.S.A.—Jones News Co., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lhin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
2£T3§z 'zlleZz/fr.
THUKttDAY, JUNE 4, 1908.
ON THE EDGE OF INSOLVENCY.
Just now, when “Untrammelled Borrowing” is
one of the principal shrieks of the State Frights
party, it is interesting to consider how close this
community may be to public insolvency. Look-
ing at the matter seriously, it seems that the crash
may come almost any year. It isn’t a question of
any sudden new development in Australia itself ;
we may go broke from wholly extraneous causes
at a time when our finances look sound enough
and there is no visible cloud on the cash horizon.
For Australia has done an amazing and incredible
gamble—such a gamble as has no parallel in
modern history among nations that really intend
to walk the chalk line of honesty. It has bor-
rowed from John Bull about £200,000,000 pub-
licly, and much more privately, and has made its
public borrowings repayable at fixed dates. No
provision worth mentioning has been made for
repayment ; this country simply hopes that
when, say, £20,000,000 falls due to the old
Bull who lent the money, that same Bull,
or his son the different Bull, will lend another
£20,000,000 to pay the same Bull or the different
Bull, whichever Bull it may be. Our solvency
doesn’t depend on ourselves; it depends on Bull.
We have solemnly promised that on certain dates
Bull will lend us certain immense sums of money,
and if he fails to do so, we are gone where Por-
tugal and the Central American republics and all
the other financial debris went. In other words,
our solvency depends on Bull keeping our pro-
mise to us, yet Bull himself has promised nothing.
It is a ludicrous situation.
***■*■
The question arises : Why did Bull lend us all
this money ? Apparently for these two reasons: —
(1) Because he believed that while Australia was
allowed to follow a policy of peaceful expansion, and
wasn’t harassed and devastated by war, it would pay up
honorably.
(2) Because he believed that he— -Bull —was strong
enough to protect Australia and his investments in Aus-
tralia against all-comers.
That was the whole situation. And the day that
Bull loses faith in his ability to protect us and
the money he has lent us, and yet doesn’t get, in
place of his old faith in himself, a profound belief
in our ability to protect ourselves and the money
he has lent us, Bull will cease to lend and decline
to renew. And if that loss of faith happens just
when a big mass of loans is falling due, then Aus-
tralia’s bankruptcy under the present system will
arrive. We will go to join the defaulting nations
in the ash-heap of the world’s contempt. And,
there is no lack of evidence that Bull is losing
faith in himself very fast. He has withdrawn all
his serviceable ships from the Pacific to guard his
own shores, and so high an authority as the Lon-
don Times reckons that it is quite unlikely he will
again attempt to maintain a marine force of any
importance in these waters. The navy that was
once equal in strength to that of any three other
Powers is now below even the two-Power standard,
and for a nation which has to defend not only
its own coasts, but also the food routes from the
United States and Canada and Argentina, lest it
should be starved out, that is cutting things dan-
gerously fine. Then a Little Navy Government
is in power, and a Little Navy man is at the head
of the Admiralty, and the shipbuilding pro-
gramme has been grievously cut down. And
Britain has begun to see the German Danger in
its sleep. It is liable to begin to see the Yankee
Danger in its sleep also. It realises that both
Germany and the States are now ahead of it in
aggregate wealth, and far ahead of it in popula-
tion, and that it has nearly 400,000,000 scattered
niggers to hold down, and that, because Freetrade
and landlordism have destroyed its agricul-
ture, it is so completely dependent on foreign
food supplies that it is the one great
nation on earth that two months’ blockade
would starve into submission. With these
changed circumstances a curious and depressing
change has come upon British literature. British
fiction deals largely nowadays with dismal tales of
invasion, defeat, surprise and disaster. British
political writings consist largely of warnings that
the epitaph grows altogether too conspicuous on
Belshazzar’s wall. And British authorities of
all sorts make no secret of the conviction that
Australia is due to hustle for itself, especially
since, by the adoption of the White Australia
policy, we have thrown a challenge at Asia in
which Bull himself takes little interest, and have
done it for the sake of an ideal that Bull doesn t
even pretend to understand.
* * * *
Of course it is impossible to say for certain that
Bull—our father Bull—is decaying. It may be
merely a period of temporary depression and
despondency, and the future of the Empire may be
even far brighter than the past. But on the
other hand there may be no future. It is
necessary to stand off at a distance of a few cen-
turies, and view History’simpressionistpicturefrom
afar before one can say for certain that that was
the time when the permanent and hopeless dry-
rot became manifest. The men of the period
seldom see things clearly. It is possible now to
fix the telescope on the magnificent Empire of
Greece, and to guess, with a fair approach to
accuracy, when its case became really hopeless,
though probably at that date no Greek really sup-
posed that anything was seriously wrong. In those
days the Empire was still the richest on earth ; it
had a lien on the world’s trade and the world’s
finance ; its fleets still ruled the seas ; its armies
were still fairly successful, though they were
much less Greek than they had been, and the
Empire had begun to depend more on alliances
and less on its own legions. In fact, there was a
time when the Greek Empire occupied, in theory
at least, the place that Britain does now, and
seemed, relatively, almost as strong; yet, looking
back upon that period to-day, it can be seen that
the Empire was doomed beyond hope or repair.
It was using up the last vitality of its old age,
and though 'even after it was really dead, an
occasional ruler of might like John or Manuel
dragged the corpse of Byzantium into battle, and
by sheer force of will made the dead thing
perform creditably, there was no hope of any
real resurrection. Yet the German Empire went
through an apparently ruinous process of dis-
integration, and revived in greater strength than
ever. There is no sure evidence one way or the_
other in Bull’s case, but the fact remains that
for the time being he has plainly lost some of
his old belief in himself as the boss person of the
globe.
* * * *
And that is where Australia’s financial danger
comes in. Some day, it seems to be assumed on
all hands, Germany will feel itself ready, and will
issue to Britain the long-expected challenge to
fight for the job of Mistress of the Seas. Or
Germany may simply look as if it were liable to
issue the challenge at any moment, and the result
may be the same. Bull may lose confidence in
liis ability to defend himself, or he may merely
lose confidence in his ability to defend all his
gigantic outside possessions, and may reckon that,
in the free fight that is probably coming, Australia
will have to hustle for itself. And he may look at
Australia’s army and find it inefficient, and at
Australia’s navy and find that there isn’t any navy
worth mentioning. And being very doubtful of
his own ability to defend his money in Australia,
and having no faith in Australia s readiness to
defend his money in Australia, he may simply
refuse to subscribe to the renewal loan and say
“ Gimme me cash.” He may go on the policy of
trying to save a few pounds out of the ruin. And if
Australia isn’t ready with the money it will be a
disgraced creature among the nations, and a thing
of no account.
* * * *
The far-sighted Australian Government has
viewed these possibilities upon the horizon, and
it propounds three remedies. One is that there
shall be established a fairly efficient Australian
defence system. Another is that the Common-
wealth shall take over all existing State debts,
and consolidate them, and establish a sink-
ing fund for their repayment, so that when
a loan falls due this country may be
fairly able to meet the liability itself, and
not be wholly dependent on its promise, made to
itself without Bull’s authority, that Bull will
renew the bill. A third remedy is that all new
State loans shall carry a sinking fund which will
provide for their payment at maturity, so that,
again, Australia won’t be wholly dependent for its
solvency on its own promise, made to itself with-
out Bull’s authority, that Bull will renew the
bill. These are precautions that any sane Govern-
ment would take; but, as usual, the crazy, jealous
and infatuated State Insects meet them with
curses and contumely. They demand such huge
liens on the Federal revenue as would make
defence impossible. They clamor that the con-
solidation of the existing debts is unnecessary ;
their own gigantic intelligences are quite equal to
all the possibilities of the case. They howl that
any making of terms as to future loans is incom-
patible with their dignity—the stupendous dignity
of Wade and Bent and Jacky Evans and Newton
Moore. Australia is gambling with a big danger
and a huge disgrace, and the only safeguard is
some such policy as the Deakin Government pro-
poses. But the interests and safety <?f Australia
are seemingly a mere secondary consideration in
the view of Wade and Bent and Jacky Evans
and Newton Moore. These persons have their
importance to consider.
EDWARD VII., KING, EMPEROR, DIP-
LOMATIST. PEACEMAKER, AND POS-
SIBLE ARBITRATOR.
This country has just finished with Empire Day.
There were many speeches and a quantity of beer.
The speeches were mostly poor, and the quality of
the beer was often moderate. There were a fair
number of flags. The school-kiddies were talked
to in a dreary and horrible strain by partially
dead persons, and they got certain buns. The
greatness of the Empire was dilated upon. Ihe
greatness of Edward VII., King and Emperor,
was very much dilated upon. There were orations
about the men who made the Empire, and about
the men who hung on to it after it was made.
Joseph Carruthkrs, ex-Premier and one-time
State Insect of N.S.W., is cabled as having said
in London that on the momentous occasion
Two Million Australian children had saluted
the flag—which seems like wild exaggeration,
but then perhaps Joseph really said 200,000.
Janet Mrs. Clarke and the Womens lory
League, of which she is the chief offender, went
strong on Empire Day. So did Wade and Bent
and others. It was an occasion when the lory,
the purely British loyalist, the Foreign-trader,
and such-like theorists emerged into the full glare
of the limelight, and whirled the banner some-
thing tremendous, and told all parties concerned
about the greatness of the occupant of the throne,
and the magnificence of his dominions, and about
how it is our duty, if necessary, to perish in
defence thereof. True, almost every man who
held forth conspicuously on these matters is
among the gang which curses and in some
cases seeks to destroy King Edward s Common-
wealth of Australia; and which denounces with
excessive bitterness the proposal that Australia
should submit to military training, and should
put up the money for a decent fleet, in order to
defend its own country (which is, incidentally,
one-fourth of King Edward’s empire), and to be
able, if needed, to lend a hand with a gun in it to
King Edward himself. Most of the orators
belong to the crowd which demands that, m the
division of the Australian revenues, practically
the whole lot shall go to the States, and that the
Commonwealth shall be left so utterly penniless
that it won’t be able to buy anybody a rifle where-
with to help the Empire in its day of trouble.
Even the fatted rhetoricians who held forth most
fearsomely about how it is our duty to carry our
share of the imperial burden are in many cases
the loudest in denouncing any proposal to let the
Australian Government have as much as a
spare 2d. with which to hold up the
said burden, and the maddest in demanding
all the money for the purely Australian road or
railway, and the purely Australian culvert; also
they are the most crazy in their desire to arouse
popular hatred against the Government which
proposes to train and arm Australia in order that
it may be in a position to do exactly the thing
that these fat men say they want it to do. And
the papers which gave the most space and the
biggest headlines to Empire Day, and blared the
loudest trumpet over the Empire Day proceed-
ings, and called most bitterly on Australia to do
its duty, are also, as a rule, among those which
curse Dkakin and Lyne and Chapman for propos-
ing that Australia should maintain a moderate
naval and military force, so that, if Edward VII.
feels this section of his crown tottering, he need
not call to us wholly in vain. But these are side
issues. , » * •
The personal character of the King and Em-
peror was a subject which stood forth conspicu-
ously amid the sunset glare of Empire Day.
Edward VII., the able statesman, the clever
diplomatist, the astute man of the world, the
preserver of peace, and the capable remover of
international differences, was the subject of much
loose oratory on that occasion. All this loyaL
clamor suggests an idea. Seeing that Edward
VII. has acquired a really large reputa-
tion for smoothing away national differences,
why should he not be asked to arbitrate
on some of our differences ? Australia is no mean
country, for it represents fully a fourth of
Edward Vll.’s dominions, and it promises in the
future to be one of the strongholds of the race
which keeps his territories together and holds up
his throne. Therefore it is not absurd to ask him
to spend a little of his time at the work of
peace-making hereabouts. He need not
all the work personally; he could appoint
competent legal advisers to assist him, and thus
reduce the strain. There is, for instance, the
question of the Australian capital. Would
Reid, and Cook, and Bruce Smith, and the
S M Herald and Sydney Telegraph, and
other deafening mouth-loyalists be willing
that the Dalgety party and the state
Frights party should each lay a condensed
statement of its case before the royal and imperial
arbitrator and ask him to report: (1) Whether
the selection of Dalgety is or is not a breach of
the Federal compact, as alleged by Wade and
Co. • (2) whether a Federal demand for 900 or
even 5000 square miles for a Federal territory is,
or is not, a breach of the Federal compact, as
alleged by Wade and Co. ; (3) whether the right
of selection of a capital lies wholly with the Com-
monwealth or in any sense with the fetate Legisla-
ture of N.S.W.; and (4), in a general way, whether
the alleged Ma State grievance in this matter is
any grievance at all, or mere lying and anti-
Australian cussedness ? Similarly, the King might
be invited to decide, with the aid of competent
financial advisers, whether William Lyne s pro-
posal for the division of the Australian revenues
is a fair division, or is unduly liberal to the
States, considering the huge responsibilities which
the Commonwealth has to carry, or whether it is
the outrage on the States that Wade and Bent
declare it to be. He might even, with the aid ot
competent constitutional advisers, hand down an
opinion whether, on the evidence, the Labor party
really seeks to burst up the home and destroy the
marriage tie and confiscate all property ; in other
words whether the crowd with which George
Reid and Janet Mrs. Clarke are associated is
simDly a gang of mean liars and a collection of
base degraded slanderers, or otherwise. Possibly
the last would be too abstract a question for arbi-
tration ; but the Federal capital and the financial
problem are concrete matters regarding which the
opinion of an intelligent and independent arbitra-
tor would be of real value. #
Possibly the Tory party will reply that these
are matters of purely Australian concern, and that
Australia is a self-governing community and must
settle its own affairs without outside interference.
But there is abundant precedent to justify a
nation calling in an arbitrator from outside when
its internal rows became too violent for peaceful
settlement. And if the arbitrator acted merely
on this country’s invitation there would be no
sacrifice of its self-governing powers. And surely
the Empire Day push wouldn’t regard Edward
VII., our own beloved monarch, as representing
“ outside interference.” Moreover it is surely a
cold day for Edward VII. if he can wander
about the European Continent fixing up
troubles and grievances, and yet can’t be
allowed to adjust a severe verbal scrimmage
among his own subjects. This paper has a certain
craving to hear the opinion of Edward VII., as a
gentleman and a man of the world, on the capital
site question, and on the row about the division
of the Australian revenues, and on the marriage-
tie and bursting-up-of-the-home lie. If he would
consent to arbitrate between the States and the
Commonwealth on any of these questions, the
verdict would probably be that the occupant of
the throne wouldn’t iike to be seen dead with
some of the people who whooped so loudly for him
on Empire Day. These people have already gone
to arbitration, in the sense that they have carried
three alleged State grievances before the Austra-
lian High Court, and thrice the High Court has
thrown the State Tripe crowd down the stair on
its ear. Perhaps they are tired of arbitration.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “S. M. Herald” Clamors for Protection.
Last week the S. M. Herald came out with an
article about “The Iron Industry,” and the
earnest shout of the Freetrade paper for Protec-
tion for this N.S.W. undertaking was a very
memorable shout indeed. Some extracts follow
Recently we had occasion to draw attention to the
extraordinary treatment meted out by the Federal Parlia-
ment to the VVolgan Valley shale oil industry. It now
looks as though the Lithgow iron industry is going to fare
no better. When, earlier in the week, Mr. Thomson,
M.P., asked the Prime Minister what he intended to do
before the session closed to assist the iron industry, the
answer he received was that the Manufactures Encourage-
ment Bill was on the business paper, and would be pro-
ceeded with “as soon as possible.” But unless “as soon
as possible ” means this session, it may mean any time or
never. That is in regard to the bonus. The position in re-
gard to the duties is no more satisfactory. Certainly the
Treasurer has power to impose the duties prescribed in
section 6A of the tariff schedule by proclamation, but that
proclamation is subject to a resolution by both Houses of
Parliament. So that unless the resolution is passed this
session the future of the industry is as problematical as
ever. And what is its present position? We have Mr.
Hoskins, the spokesman of the proprietary which took
over the Lithgow works from Mr. Sandford, telling us
that the furnaces are turning out pig iron equal to the
best produced anywhere, but in the absence of either
bonus or duty it cannot be sold in competition with the
imported article ; it has simply to be stacked on the
ground. Obviouslv this process cannot go on indefinitely,
and if it has to be' discontinued the results may be very
serious, not only to those who have embarked large capital
in the enterprise, but also to an army of workers, and also
to the mountain town whose interests are so bound up
with the fortunes of this industry.
Is it not an absolutely preposterous position that the
industry which in so real a sense is the mother of manu-
factures—the industry which transcends them all in
importance—is precisely the industry about which a Pro-
tectionist Government, pledged to what it rejoices to call
a “ national ” policy, evinces the least concern ? We may
be guilty once again of that “ narrow provincialism ”
which both Mr. Deakin and Mr. William Lynb so fre-
quently and so feelingly deplore ; but, nevertheless, we
venture to think that if the Lithgow ironworks were in
Victoria we should not be wondering at the fag-end of yet
another session what treatment the iron industry was
likely to receive. The Victorian members would have
seen to that, and the circumstances being as they are, we
cannot congratulate the New South Wales members on
that energv and unity of action which would betoken
full appreciation on their part of the value of this
industry to their own State and to Australia as a whole.
Now, supposing it were true that the Lithgow'
ironworks would receive more Protection if they
were located in Victoria —could the S. M. Herald
wonder at it ? N.S. W. still supplies the bulk of
the Freetrade contingent in the Australian Par-
liament, and Lithgow itself is in a constituency
that returns a violent Freetrader. As that person
declares, in season and out of season, that it is
Freetrade which builds up great industries, would
it not be almost natural for the Government to let
the principal industry of his electorate have the
Freetrade its member clamors for, and which it
presumably clamors for through him ? There is a,
great difference, from the standpoint of abstract
logic, between granting Protection to an
industry in Wilks’s electorate (N.S.W.) and
doing the same in Jabez Coons electo-
rate (Victoria). Wilks says Protection is a
curse, and his attitude of lofty pity for
Protectionists is a horrible example of mental
patronage, yet he clamors for Protection for in-
dustries in his own electorate. Coon says Pro-
tection is a blessing, and also wants Protection
for industries in his own electorate. Hut w ilks
still votes against Protection for industries that
are not in his electorate; while Coon wants Pro-
tection for all industries. And if Wilks s in-
dustry is protected, all the Government gets in
return is the opposition of Wilks when it tries o
grant Protection to industries outside the v\ ilk.
radius, and the terrific scoff of Wilks because
believes in Protection at all. On the other nan ,
the granting of Protection to industries m JAMS
Goon’s electorate means that at least Coon wo
howl with scorn at the Ministry f° r being Protec
tionist, and try to drive it out of offiw® 'J
time it gives Protection to any industry that
doesn’t lie in Coon’s little locality.
men ask for assistance, and one gives only curse
and hostility in return, and says you are> a fool tor
doing it, while the other gives at least ameas
of courtesy, there is a natural tende y
draw a line between them Similar*
would be quite reasonable if a distinc
were made between the 8. M. Herald se <■ K
Protection for the N.S.W. iron industry,
Melbourne Age seeking Protection : foir the V
torian hat industry. The Herald stalky
tection is a curse, and that Deakin ami
Lyne are fools for being Protectionists and
even if Deakin and Lyne give it
Protection it asks for, it will still urg
public to throw them out for not being *
traders. In a case like that it wouldJ «
logical to tell the Herald that no , att f ent p rote c-
be paid to any demand it may make f »
tion until it ceases to denounce i .
a S a curse, and Protectionists J
quated and incapable .persons. £nd 0 f
any industry exists solely m the be run
Wilks or Cook, logic-if a country could De^ d
on the principles of abstract logic m j ts
that these industries should get Free trad
most absolute form till they ga P - E ven if
who declare that Freetrade is a blessing.
it were true that bydney melus r -yf e ibourne
toil under Freetrade conditions i-rc t 0 see
ones were protected, it wou.d . g yc j n ey
where the Herald’s gneyanoe came m. »y
elects mostly men who say *at Freetrade
blessing, and Melbourne elects mostL it js
say that Protection is a blessing, and
possible to give each place its own blessing, , g
shouldn’t it be done? As a mutter _ f j iation as
difficult to see that there is any Government
alleged-in fact, the Australian Govern^.^
seems to have labored hard to supp y P j d be
all round-but if thefHerS
proved, what right would the S. IV .
to complain ?


“ Get Him Into a Bank ! ”
An ex-bank official tells the story of his life, for
the benefit of all the fond parents who think it
would be such a good thing to get Horace into a
bank (the ex-bank official supplies dates, names,
and places confidentially) :
I joined about nine years ago, and remained in the ser-
vice for six years. I started on £3O per annum (less
some deductions), being then over 16 years old. They at
once sent me away about 100 miles from my home. I got
board and lodging at 18s. per week, which overdrew my
salary 6s. 6d. ; and, of course, I had to dress decently.
My father had to sign an undertaking that he would
supplement my salary for three years. After three
months’ breaking-in, I was transferred to a suburb with a
good report from the manager. I remained in the suburb
about nine months as junior, and got on splendidly ; the
manager’s report was that I was “ a youth of great pro-
mise, punctual, and took a great interest in my work,
and showed much ability.” I began to think that I was
all right. I thought they might even modify the agree-
ment by which I was to serve at £3O, £4O and £5O for
the first three years.
To begin my second year I was sent to a big country
branch, where we had numerous mining accounts. Here
I had three ledgers, including one kept exclusively
for the mining accounts. It was a very heavy counter,
as we paid all the wages, etc. The teller was a very smart
fellow of 23. He was getting £9O a year, and was hand-
ling thousands a day, for which he was responsible. I
opened new ledgers for the start, and shortly after the
inspector happened along. He specially commended me
in his report on the branch—a rare thing for that parti-
cular inspector to do. I had a very good report from the
manager also. Yet materially these reports made abso-
lutely no difference.
In my third year I was promoted to be ledger-keeper
at another branch on £5O. This branch was a very busy
and important one. The teller was getting £l2O ; the
position was well worth £2OO. The accountant, reckoned
one of the best men in the service, received £2OO after 14
years’ service.
Apparently I did well there, for, with a manager, I was
next sent to open a branch in another State. Nominally,
I was to be teller on £6O a year. I received a rise of £io
(which made the £6O) three months sooner than I would
have done in the ordinary course, but I didn’t get another
increase for 18 months.
Still another promotion arrived, but the salary was the-
same old £6O. In the new town there were five banks, ins
eluding the Savings Bank. We had a very good busines
and also an agency. I used to go once a week on the old
horse we kept for the purpose, a distance of 16 miles each
way, mostly bush track. I used to carry about £l5O in
mv bag. I was never attacked by bushrangers. Yet
Heaven knows there was temptation enough ; for of the
tellers of the other banks—old officers mostly—one was
paid £l3O, another £l6O, and another £l2O, while my
little lot was £6O. (For that I handled £6OOO over the
counter every day.) All these fellows were friends of
mine, and I had to struggle to live as well as they. I was
just on 22 years old at that time. In desperation, I
applied for a rise, and got another £lO per annum after
nearly eighteen months.
With the heart pretty well knocked out of me I resigned
and went over to another bank, and was given £l2O per
annum to go to Perth. The first- twelve months they
deducted £l6 6s. from my salary for guarantee and provi-
dent funds, etc. Then I was sent to the goldfields, where
I resigned owing to ill-health.
Two years later, after having done some station book-
keeping meantime, I heard that my old bank was very
much in need of clerks ; so, remembering the reports
that stood in my favor on the records, I applied. They
seemed quite pleased—and offered me £7O per annum.
But I was to pay an entrance fee of £lO, while about 10s.
a month would be deducted for guarantee and provident
funds. So I would have £54 the first year. To square
things my father was to sign an agreement that he would
supplement my salary till I was in a position to support
myself. 1 was at this time 24 years of age !
1 declined the offer. Next day I sailed for Maoriland
on spec, and landed on to an average of about £3 10s.
per week.
The Federal Capital at Dalgety also
the Wade Government’s Advertisement
Thereof.
On every railway platform in Queensland where
the traffic seems sufficiently large to make the
expenditure worth while, appears a big and
highly-colored poster with a view of the Snowy
River (N.S.W.) —the great stream which rushes
past Dalgety, the selected capital of Federated
Australia. It is a really gorgeous view, and
beneath and around it, in many-colored type,
appear shrieks like these :
The Health Resort op Australia.
Bracing Air.
Gorgeous Scenery.
Ideal Touring District and Resort for Anglers.
And much more of the same sort. This is
N.S.W.’s appeal to the blase outsider to
come and see and admire and revel in the
splendid district which N.S.W. Commis-
sioner Oliver (specially appointed by the
N.S.W. State Government to report on possible
sites), declared to be the best place (within the
limits of the Constitution) for Australia’s capital,
and which the Australian Parliament selected on
Oliver’s recommendation, and which N.S.W.
State Premier Carruthers declined to surrender
on any consideration at all, and which is now one
of the'worst of the Ma State grievances. The yell
of Carruthers and Wade was, and the yell still
is, that the Snowy River district is quite unfit to
be a capital on account of its barrenness, wretched-
ness, cussedness and all manner of drawbacks;
and thac the only possible place for this continent’s
political centre is Canberra (or else Lyndhurst).
All the same, the N.S.W. State Government so
fully realises that neither Canberra nor Lyndhurst
is the sort of place that any sane tourist would
want to see, that it never dreams of posting bills
on the railway stations of adjacent States, asking
the traveller to come and view and revel in Can-
berra or Lyndhurst. The bill-posting business is
a matter of business. The N.S.W. Government
wants a rush of visitors to make trade for its rail-
ways and hotels, and to boom things generally.
Hence it urges the wandering Queenslander to come
and see the glorious Snowy River country, so
that, having seen it, he can die happy. Yet when
the same locality is mentioned as the site of the
selected Australian Capital, the N.S.W. Govern-
ment declares that it is utterly barren, so sterile
that no vegetables will grow there, so windy that
coaches blow over as an ordinary thing, so in-
accessible that a Federal politician can t be reason-
ably expected to get there though he is paid £6OO
a year for getting there ; and so generally awful as
to be quite out of the question. It is a woeful
discrepancy, but the State Frights’ gospel is full
of discrepancies.
The Reliable Landowner.
“J.G.”: The Kerang (Vic.) Shire Council,
mostly run by big landowners, some 20 years ago
got the Government to find the money for
about 14 miles of railway from Kerang to
Koondrook, on the Murray. The arrange-
ment entered into was that the Shire Council
would manage the line after it was built,
and would keep it in order and pay interest on
the cost of construction. So the line was built,
and called a tramway, although it was to all in-
tents and purposes a light railway, built on the
same gauge as the other Victorian lines. After
the line was built, the land for miles on each side
of it went up in value by about £2 an acre. And
the Shire Council took over the management of the
line, and managed it so amazingly that in a few
years it owed the Government about £lO,OOO m
interest alone. In other words, the Shire Coun-
cil, in its dealings with the State, did as most of
those bodies do—it showed no honesty, no shame
at breaking its word ; it was just about as reliable
as a nigger republic, and its bond panned out like
the bad cheque of a babu. In fact, it was the
usual discredit to the allegedly honorable tradi-
tions of the white race. When things got very
bad, the Government impounded the annual sub-
sidy to the Shire of Kerang, and the Shire Coun-
cil shrieked that this was worse than highway rob-
bery. Now these shire councillors have the
brazen cheek to ask the Government to take over
the line, with an accumulated interest bill
of £9500; and that added to the liability of the
cost of construction, makes a total of £27,000
for about 14 miles of light railway, which
has been more badly starved than even Tait’s
lines, bad as some of those are said to be.
When the Vic. railway men were struggling for
civil and political liberty during the strike time,
the Kerang shire councillors appeared on the
scene in the r6le of strike breakers. They pulled
their ancient trains on to the Kerang and Bendigo
railway line, and ran a few trips between those
two towns while all the other trains were laid up.
It was a sight for the gods when the old, doggy,
ramshackle, pre-Adamite engine of the Kerang to
Koondrook tramway slowly panted into Bendigo,
drawing the ancient carriage which appeared to
be going to pieces for the lack of a coat of paint to
hold it together. The jeers of the assembled
populace were something to remember. This
venerable firebox and the ark on wheels are part
of the turn-out that the Kerang Shire Council
wants the Government to take over for close on
£30,000. And they are older now than they were
when they blew into Bendigo.
Commonwealth, Shire, and State.
The recent N.S.W. Shire Councillors’ Conference
in Sydney was a horrible disappointment to State
Premier Wade. It was the first time there had been
such a conference under the new Local Government
Act, which Carruthers and Wade have crowed
so much about; and Wade expected that the Con-
ference would look upon him as a small boy looks
upon his great and wonderful father, who can do
just about anything, and that it would take its
tune from him, and cheer when he cheered, and
booh when he boohed. Wade in particular wanted
some boohing done just then. He had come back
from meeting Prime Minister Deakin and Trea-
surer Lyne, who had horrified him with a proposal
to take over the State debts, pay the interest,
and hand over a clean receipt for the entire debt
in 35 years. Wade, prepared to see a grievance
in anything, saw one in even this, and hurried
along to the Shire Conference to tell the small boys
to split their little throats in yelling “ Booh !” at
the Commonwealth. And then the disappoint-
ment began to happen. Wade left, and the Con-
ference forgot all about the alleged State griev-
ance. It didn’t so much as curse Deakin once,
or hiss at the name of Lyne. It didn’t even men-
tion Lyne. But it mentioned Carruthers and
Wade pretty often, and most times it only men-
tioned them to suggest that they had been guilty
of a confidence trick, and that their own system of
State finance was a wretched fake. For three years,
one member pointed out, the road vote had been
starved; though revenue had been unusually
large, something over £400,000 less than the
average had been spent on road works in three
years ; and then the starved works had been
handed over for the shires to wrestle with. In
plain language, the Conference, instead of boohing
at Deakin and Lyne, accused Carruthers and
Wade of faking a succession of surpluses by
letting the country roads, bridges, etc., go to
wrack and ruin, knowing that the responsibility
for those works would be presently passed over to
the local governing bodies. Possibly the Shire
Conference didn’t think of it at the time ; but, as a
matter of fact, precisely the trick that had
been played upon the shires had already been
played upon the Commonwealth, especially in con-
nection with the post office. Still, even without
remembering how the Commonwealth had been
treated, the Conference, going on its own experi-
ence, wasn’t taking the State Government on
trust any more, and, instead of cursing Deakin
and Lyne, was too busy heaving awkward bricks
at Carruthers and Wade. And finally the Con-
ference passed a great number of resolutions, some
of them calling upon the State Departments to
pull their oar out and leave off interfering, and
others demanding extended powers of self-
government —just, in fact, the powers that they
will have when the State Departments are abol-
ished altogether, and the government of the
country is divided up between the shires and the
Commonwealth. Wade’s attempt to nobble the
Conference was about the most dismal failure in
a long list of failures.
— ♦
The Motor Car.
The Sydney Morning Herald’s motor-owning
proprietary holds that the person in the car is so
infrequently a Dangerous Hog as not to matter,
and in its issue of 27/5/’OB it hurls rebuke at
Inspector Garvin and his myrmidons for their
scurvy treatment of “a peaceful and law-abiding
class.” The paper states, in denouncing Garvin’s
administration of the Metropolitan Traffic Act,
which it fears will be surpassed in stringency by
the coming Motor Bill, that—
As a class motorists are careful and cautious to a degree
beyond most drivers. This is certainly so in the city
area.
But is -it ? Two people have been killed stone
dead by motor cars “in the city area ” of Sydney
within the past few weeks, and a number of others
have been injured. But those calamities the
motor fiend brushes aside as “flukes,” “ inexplic-
able mischances,” “the fortune of war,” and so
forth. In the Herald’s view, and that of all
other apologists for road-hogging—
The only safety test that is worth anything is the time
in which a vehicle can be brought to a standstill, and, in
general, the extent to which it is under control.
Reasoning on which basis, trams are proclaimed
dangerous and horse-drawn conveyances de-
nounced as lethal, while motors are held up to
admiration as models of security. Yet it is a
good while, after all, since a tram ran over
and slew a Ma State citizen (though there are
many hundreds more trams than motors careering
through the streets daily and nightly), and fatal
horse-vehicular accidents are rare, despite the
thousands of traps, drays, carts, sulkies,
and the like which throng our cities.
The Road Swine and his special pleaders always
have a score of theories, jumping with their own
inclinations, to explain each successive motor-
tragedy that occurs. Either the mechanism of
the Juggernaut went wrong in some inexplicable
fashion, or the steering gear failed, or the driver
lost his head or his heart; or got a liver attack and
saw spots instead of the deceased—any old cause
is pushed forward save that of excessive speed.
The public, which doesn’t own motors, but which
has had a relative or two run over by them, and
recognises that it is liable itself to be flattened out
at any moment in its own streets, hearkens un-
convinced to the motor-enthusiasts’ side of the
case. It doesn’t worry about the fine points of why
the accidents happened and keep happening. It
doesn’t consider it worth while. All it notes is
that they have happened and do happen. When
it is suggested (as it always is) that the policeman
who has pulled up the urban or other scorcher has
done an act of gross injustice (no arrested scorcher
■ever admits to more than the regulation speed),
the same public smiles cynically. It has mostly
become acquainted nowadays with motor-owning
people. It knows how many minutes the smart
chauffeur reckons it will take to reach town
if pinched for time. It knows likewise just how
long the average motorist requires to run up to
Katoomba for lunch, or to some other equally
distant spot for tea. And that knowledge
puts the public in dread of its life. The N.S.W.
Motor Bill will become law shortly, and the Road
Hog and his supporters are squealing dismally in
anticipation. But their discordances should not
affect things. There is but one certain method of
ensuring safety pending the time when motor-cars
cease to go inexplicably wrong and motor-drivers
leave off losing their heads and other assets, and
that is limitation of speed and rigorous police
enforcement of the same. Inspector Garvin,
whose task it is to draw up the new motor regula-
tions and see they are carried out, has a plain
duty to the public in this regard, and all the din
of the killing of all the pigs in Chicago ought riot
to prevent his doing it.
The Cow Devil, and Shylock, and the Child
Sweater.
There is no child-slavery in the N.S.W. South
Coast dairy districts, reported a Government
Inspector the other day. The charitable view to
take is that association with Cow has corrupted
that inspector till he doesn’t know what child-
slavery is. The crime which he denies is, in fact,
rampant in every dairy district of Australia. The
richer the land the longer and stronger is the hold
of the octopus. It is not easy to get direct evi-
dence, but occasionally damning testimony comes
drifting along from a school inspector or
teacher, who is appalled at the mental and
physical dwarfing of the children, the result of the
early-and-late drudgery to which they are sub-
jected. These accusations have appeared both in
Departmental reports and in the press, and have
not been contradicted. Then there are the scores
of cases which do not come under the purview of
the bush teacher, for the children do not attend
school at all, and are growing up without even
elementary education. They are the sacrifice by
their fathers to the great Cow Devil. An indepen-
dent witness of this tragedy cropped up in Princi-
pal Potts, of theHawkesbury Agricultural College,
who recently told the butter-factory managers’
conference that “ the most serious aspect of the
industry was the daily employment of children of
tender years. Often children had to tramp long
distances to and from school, and were deprived
of much-needed rest.” His hope lay in “ the in-
troduction of machinery and the application of
science.” But the average farmer, especially the
dairy farmer, is not taking any application of
science if there is a trifle of expenditure attached
to the scheme. It is almost impossible to per-
suade him that milking machines will pay.
If he was persuaded, there would be such a
rush for machines that many factories would be
needed to meet the demand. At the bottom of
the sin and the crime against the nation lies the
debasing influence of land monopoly. It has been
shown that parents are obliged to enslave
their children because their rents were so high
that they cannot afford to pay for labor. The
exorbitant price of land purchased on the time-
payment system has likewise done its share
in the same direction ; the instalments must be
kept up, and child slavery is the readiest means
within reach. Yet perhaps the hardest-driven
serfs of them all are the children of the share
farmer, who only receives one-third of the pro-
ceeds of his own and his family’s labors. And he
has no future prospects, not even the poor pros-
pects enjoyed by his neighbor who is struggling to
pay off his staggering instalments.
♦
The World’s Champion Smuggler.
“ VigilaNs ” writes from the North :
I know something about the smuggling and the smug-
gled Chow. I spent three years in the Chinese Maritime
Customs in Canton and Amoy, and some more years on
the China Navigation Co.’s boats. In Canton we had a
large and efficient staff of officers, yet we could not cope
with the oily heathen who smuggled opium. We drew 20
per cent, on all seizures, and we hustled, you bet. Have
seen the river steamers cut from stem to stern to make
hiding places for the drug-. I have also seen a coffin,
with a supposed corpse inside, used to get the stuff
ashore ; also edible dogs and cats carried by hawkers on
the end of a stick. They are the world’s champions at
the game.
A Malay interested in smuggling at Port Darwin
recently told me in a fit of spleen that opium is thrown
overboard at Point Charles from almost every incoming
steamer, and picked up by sampans supposed to be used
by fishermen. Of course it is buoyed. This is a favorite
mode in Canton waters. We used to go down the river in
a very fast launch, and we made many hauls that way.
I know a Pagan in Port Darwin who regularly smuggles
10 coolies a year to work in his mines. I have, seen 20
alleged miners working on one show and only one could
speak English, and that one’s first words to me were :
“You likum ‘ square ? ”’ At least 50 per cent, are in the
same junk. The Chow in the Territory rarely speaks
English, and where he comes from no one troubles to ask.
During a recent two-vears’ sojourn in the Northern
Territory I lived most of my time with John on the fields.
He only laughs at the prohibition of opium. Opium is
carried in bags of rice and other stuff from Darwin to
Burrundie, where there are no railway or police officials.
Thence it goes across country to Mount Wells tin field,
Horseshoe Creek, Mount Todd, Mount Diamond,
and other Chow-infested mineral fields. There is
no possible error about it. Opium dens are to
be seen everywhere if you care to look for them,
and the dealer makes a fat thing of it. Of course, he
doesn’t keep it all. The respectable (or what seems the
respectable) heathen is the worst enemy we have. He
treats you to “ square,” and sends you presents —he is
such a good fellow ! Always look out for the Chow who
offers you “ square.” Palm-greasing is the custom of the
North, and, in many cases, the white knows where the
grease comes from. ' If a Royal Commission inquired into
the bribery and corruption that goes on in the Northern
Territory, it would astonish Australia—or it would if the
Commission got at the facts.
Melbourne and the Gambling Act.
The Bulletin’s remarks on the above-mentioned
subject (April 16 and May 14) have drawn a
“reply” from the Victorian police, through the
Age. The Age has, in general, a poor opinion of
Victorian police administration; but, on this
occasion, they are bedfellows in adversity, for
The Bulletin drew attention to the fact that
advts. notifying “open betting” were being pub-
lished in the Melbourne papers. The Age only
answers that charge by misrepresenting it: —
It was stated, among other things, that “open bet-
ting ” was carried on publicly at the Flemington running
grounds, and was even advertised in the Melbourne news-
papers, the assumption of the writer being that such
betting was illegal.
The Bulletin did not state that “ open betting ”
was carried on publicly at the Flemington running
grounds. What it did state was that the intima-
tion of “ open betting ” in the Melbourne news-
papers was an “ open and flagrant violation of the
law ’’—which was the whole purport of the
article. The Age and its temporary pal, the
police, ignore that declaration and evade that
issue ; and, with a fine piece of hypocrisy, remark,
with a snuffle, that it was stated that open
betting “was even advertised in the Melbourne
newspapers as if the Age were quite unaware of
what had transpired in its own advertising
columns ! As for the rest: —
The Chief Secretary has obtained a report from Ser-
geant O’Donnell as to the working of the Act... Street
betting was not spreading, and at present there was not
a great deal of it done. There were a few at it who were
very wary and difficult to catch. These men had their
regular patrons, and would not bet with strangers.
Yet such letters as this appear in the Melbourne
papers (Herald, 22/5’08): —-
Being a visitor... I, in company with my wife, was
going up Little Collins-street, between Swanston and
Russell streets, and was disgusted and annoyed to see
bookmakers carrying on their calling, surrounded by
loafers and spielers, in broad daylight, and had to walk
on the road.in consequence.
I was informed that by-laws had been made, but had
been upset by a Judge, and that the police can do nothing
unless they prove a conviction by police betting with
them, which is a farce, seeing that bookmakers know
them. 4
It is a blot and a disgrace to your fair city that some-
thing is not done to wipe it out.
Asa matter of fact, however, O’Connell’s “de-
fence” simply amounts to this : pernicious street-
betting is carried on, but the police are not active
or intelligent enough to catch the offenders. Pro-
bably the offenders get warning and know when to
run/ Anyhow, there is a story current in Melbourne
that recently a business man complained about the
congregation of street bookmakers and other riff-
raff, who were plying their illegal trade in the
neighborhood. On his information, it is alleged,
The Song of the Doodle Doos.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O, this is a song of the present time and a Ballad
of Freedom’s Foes—
A song more fitted for careless rhyme than it is
for honest prose;
For this is the song of the Goo-Goo push, and the
city-bred yahoos,
Of things that seldom are seen in the bush—and a
song of the Doodle Doos.
—’Die Doos—
And a song of the Doodle Doos.
O, this is the song of the great Oh Mys ! that ever
have been since Rome,
Of the Sanctity of the Marriage Tie and the Safe-
guards of the Home.
Of the Better Protection for Women and Girls —
the song of the Female Gel—
Of the voice that shrieks and the arm that whirls—
and its sung by the Great H. L. !
Oh L !
It is sung by the great H. L.
O, this is the song of the Women’s League, and
the Brutal Neglect of Man ;
Of his Talk-dulled ears and his great fatigue—and
a dirge for the Black and Tan.
Of the Wrongs of the Wife, and the Husband’s
Place—and a song of the Selfish White—
And the penalties husbands shall have to face
who’ll be out after ten at night.
That’s right—
There’ll be Acts after ten at night.
O, this is the song of I Told You So, and a ballad
of Who’d Have Thought ?
Of the Duty on Whatsitsname, Don’t You Know,
and the Battle That Women Fought.
The song of “Just Fancy!” “You Don’t Say
So!” and “Nevah!” and “Ain’t it a Shame! ”
And whether Our Chief will get in or no —and the
voting for Whatsisname.
It’s a shame !
She’s voting for Whatsisname !
Of the Letter of Introduction, too, and the letters
from Eminent Men,
Of the Clack in the Office, till all is blue, and the
siege of the Editor’s Den.
And the flying fur, and the pleasant purr when
the Eminent’s hand she pats.
And the smile (for Her Country’s Good) of her,
unknown to the other Cats.
Oh that’s
For the Patriotic Cats.
There are some because they have nought to do,
and Democracy is “ The Thing,”
The fashion and fad of the fluff-fluff crew, and
the craze of the Maundering.
“We really should Study the People now,” and
so they flutter and friv.
“And Broaden Our Minds,” and they wonder
how the Wo-o-rking Pe-o-ple live.
Would they give?—
Nary give.
O, this is the song of the Awful Shock, and the
rise of the Silver Spoons,
For this is the song of the Four O’clock, and the
Thursday Afternoons.
O, this is the song of the Yellow and Pink—till
winter comes round again—
“ This Aw-w-ful Drought,” and “ Do-on’t you
Think that the country’s in Need of Rainl”
They explain
That the country’s in need of Rain.
Like hysterical girls, or a loony wife, there are
some who were always wronged,
And they mfide it Hell, as they went through life,
for the folk to whom they belonged*.
They shriek for Justice on all that is, they weep
for the world and moan ;
And their only complaint in the world is this :
that men have left them alone.
None would own—
They left them severely alone.
There are some who never have had a child nor
a girl about the place,
Who’d rush into print, with a letter wild, for a
lane-brat’s dirty face.
Neglected Children, and Brutal Men, and Young
Unprotected Girls !
Are the cries of the Awful Neglected Hen, and —
that is the way it whirls.
Yes, it whirls,
And that is the way it whirls.
They’d burst up homes and the marriage-tied, and
they’d sell their country too ;
And they always accuse the opposite side of doing
the things they do.
They are on the Be, they are on the Make, with
seldom a thought of others,
So this is a song for Australia’s sake, and her girls
and her wives and mothers.
Her husbands and fathers and brothers —
Her sons and her daughters and mothers.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


DEAFNESS and NOISES
COMPLETELY CURED at your own home with pure
Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long- standing or
whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, etc., etc.
REV. HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HINDMARSH
SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL,
CHURCH, ADELAIDE, writes:—“The Earoscope you
sent me has wrought a marvellous change in my hear-
ing, although I have only used it. a couple of months.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel it my
duty, even at this stage, to recommend it to anyone
suffering from deafness in whatever stage it may be.”
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
vou that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful discovery.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
“EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St.(D. 26), Sydney,N.S.W.
25,000
More Signatures
required to monster petition to
Federal Parliament re One Parlia-
ment for all Australia Referendum. Who will
volunteer to get some ? Write AT ONCE for
petition forms to
“ NATIONAL COMMITTEE,”
192 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 CEORCE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
warrants were issued for the arrest of several;
but, when the police arrived to serve those war-
rants, the whole gang had curiously disappeared.
Why?
Onslow and Bonaparte.
One of the principal factors in the hostility of
organised labor towards defence matters is the
attitude of superiority taken by many military
“ officahs.” As this superiority has gradually
become obliterated during recent years, so has
the hostility of labor dwindled, until now it is
almost confined to a handful of extremists. It
has been left to Lieutenant-Colonel Macarthur
Onslow, the stop-gap member for Waverley
(N.S.W.), who was elected more as a slap in the
eye to Banana Tom Jessep than for his own
qualities, to stir up the class feeling that once
made militarism in any form repugnant to demo-
cratic sentiment. In a speech delivered the other
night to the Women’s Patriotic Club, Onslow was
silly enough to put forward the proposition that
it was necessary to military efficiency to have
officers of a higher social scale than the rank and
file; in other words, that the officah must be a
person of different clay from those he controlled,
and that the “common soldier” should continue
to be a pariah, cheered in the aggregate, but
denied admission to the high-priced parts of places
of entertainment in the individual, and not served
in public-houses while he had his uniform on.
Onslow’s snobbish opinions might be left to carry
their own condemnation by their very foolish-
ness, but for the fact that the mass of
people are so ignorant of military history as to
take any person in uniform as a military
expert. Australia has not to go far to find solid
soldiers—and men capable of passing muster in the
exclusive circles that Onslow himself adorns—who
have risen from the ranks. Major General Hoad,
the present Inspector-General of the Australian
Military Forces, was a ranker ; so was his prede-
cessor, Major-General Harry Finn ; so was the
late Colonel Ricardo ; and so were a score of
other men whose performances in the South
African war stamped them as capable, while their
performances in private life stamped them as
gentlemen, even though they did not depend
upon the charity of their ancestors for a living.
Further afield, the career of that brilliant soldier,
the late Hector Macdonald, is known to all,
except possibly Onslow. The honorable member
for Waverley in the Secesh interest, would do
well to look up the records of the men named,
and, when he has finished, he might turn up a
history of Europe 100 years ago and investigate
the work of an obscure soldier named Napoleon
Bonaparte. This same Bonaparte, though not a
ranker himself, stated once that he owed all his
success to his ability to choose the right men to
act for him, and a glance at the records of the
marshals of France might be illuminative to
Onslow. Possibly, his attitude towards Napo-
leon would be like that of the Scotch parson who
said he did not think the better of the Saviour for
walking through the cornfields on the Sabbath.
In the face of such a difference of opinion between
two great military experts, the casual Australian
civilian finds it difficult to say whether Murat,
Bernadotte, Lefebvre, Ney, and the rest of
them should have been given the batons of
marshals, or should have been told by Napoleon
Onslow to go back to the ranks and keep their
places, if they didn’t want two days’ pack drill.
“0.C.C.” writes :
Like the eternal sea, the ignorance (or mendacity) of
the Sydney Kkllygraph is without beginning and without
end. In a recent issue this great daily heaved the lino-
slug of scorn and the ink-barrel of indignation at the un-
fortunate hop-growers of Kent (England) for daring to sug-
gest a duty on hops as the last resort (it should have been
the first) to save their collapsing industry. Now, I was born
and bred in Kent, and so may be allowed to know some-
thing of the subject. Forty years ago the hop industry
of Kent played an important part in England’s economy.
Not only was the entire beer-market of John Bull
supplied, but even Uncle Ham drank his hop-brew with
Kentish hops at the bottom of it. Forty years of insane
Foreign Trade have brought a once-flourishing and valu-
able industry to the stage of complete collapse—so much
so that, unless something is done immediately, hop-
growers may as well burn their poles and depart for the
precincts of Whitechapel, and become hop-importers.
They might then make a crust and an occasional fried
kipper. But to return to Ma’s own Daily ’Graph and
its unfathomable ignorance. After remarking in a
choking tone that the time is not yet “ ripe,” the
Jellygraph airily declares :
“ The total import for the whole of last year was only
10,000 tons. And that, it appears, is about the same
quantity as has been imported annually for a long time
past.”
Now 10,000 tons of hops imported annually is, of
course, a trifle to the Yellygraph. which, if it had its way,
would probably import 10,000,000 tons of devils from
Sheol, if thereby it could kill any local devil industry.
The amazing journal then proceeds to develop its grand
argument against the proposed duty of 40s. per cwt. on
imported hops. It appears that some of the more dis-
honest and unscrupulous brewers (there are dishonest
and unscrupulous brewers, just as there are dishonest and
unscrupulous papers) have been using quassia (also
imported) in place of hops. Consequently the D.T.
shrieks: —
“ If the duty were imposed, they (the public) would
have to go on drinking quassia beer, and in larger quan-
tities, because many of them could not afford beer made
with hops. Thus, while the duty would not build up the
industry, it would promote the increased consumption of
p >or beer.”
For colossal stupidity this “ argument ” takes the entire
confectionery trade. A 40s. per cwt. duty would knock
out the Bavarian and Yankee hops in one act. Instead of
10,000 tons, not 10,000 ounces would be imported annually.
The rush back to the hop-lands would be so violent that
the Telegraph’s London correspondent would have to
hire an (imported) motor-car to keep up with the proces-
sion. On top of the duty a neat little two-clause Act,
forbidding the use of quassia or any other adulterant,
would just hit the dishonest and unscrupulous brewers
where it would do Bull the most good. A fine of £IOO
per barrel on the cronk beer might be made the starting
point of the penalties. Then Bull would again get good
beer, made out of his own hops, and the Kentish desert
would bloom again, as it did in the long ago of my boy-
hood.
*
Something new in gambles is being pushed on to
Sydney. The concern, which calls itself a
“Mutual Loan Agency,” sells tickets (it calls
them “share warrants”) of £1 and ss. each, and
has monthly drawings; but what you get isn’t a
prize—it is a loan “ free of interest for 50 years,”
and granted without any security whatever.
There are some side-issues, but they are not of
much consequence ; the outstanding feature is the
promoters’ sublime faith in human nature, and
their solid confidence in the virtues of a 10 per
cent, commission. Naturally there are no names
on the prospectus ; perhaps the promoters were
not too sure that they had managed to dodge the
law, after all. If they have, it is too slow a law
to capture even a caterpillar which has been feed-
ing on cabbages and is out of training.
+.
Thk trouble, or alleged trouble, about the Post
and Telegraph Department all resolves itself into
a question of finance. When the Commonwealth
took over the Department, it set itself (1) to
reduce charges and to vastly increase facilities;
(2) to pay for all improvements and additions out
of revenue, instead of charging them to loans, as
the States used to do; (3) to try, by hard
economy, to reply to the insensate yell of the
State Frights push about “Federal extravagance,”
which was a hopeless matter, for, even if expenses
were cut down one-half, the shriek of “ Federal
extravagance ” would have continued. Of course,
difficulties arose. The business increased
enormously. The staff was overworked, and mis-
takes occurred now and then, and when they
didn’t occur the State Frights people invented
them. Then the State Frights people roared and
demanded an inquiry. The results of the inquiry
are interesting. In the next three years about
£2,000,000 will be required for extension, so rapidly
is population growing under the Federal policy, and
so fast is the postal business expanding. In the
effort to pay ridiculously large subsidies to the
State Governments, which, as a rule, only gave
curses in return, the Post Office has been starved,
and if the State Governments’ ideas about the
future division of the revenues are adopted, it will
be starved to a still worse extent in the future,
while the yell about “Federal extravagance ” will
doubtless go on in the old way. The only appar-
ent remedy is for the Commonwealth to do all
necessary improvements, repairs, and expansions
out of revenue regardless of the bill ; and when
the ridiculous State Premiers complain that they
aren’t getting back enough surplus, to tell them to
depart unto Gehenna-upon-Styx.
Solemn Lee, N.S.W. Minister for Works, has been
out discovering Broken Hill and the Far West;
and the railway is to be built straight away,
though Solemn Lee hasn’t decided yet whether
it shall go from Cobar via Wilcannia or from
Condobolin via Menindie. The line will, of
course, be built out of loan money, whereupon
it will be expected to return per cent, over
working expenses, in order to pay interest; and
there isn’t even Buckley’s chance of it doing
that. From Broken Hill to Sydney via Cobar
would be 739 miles; via Condobolin it would be
709 miles. (In the one case 275 miles and in the
other 374 miles of line would have to be built.) But,
as Broken Hill is already within 235 miles of
Port Pirie, where two-thirds of all the
smelting is done, and within 333 miles
of Adelaide, the chances of the new line
carrying the trade that now goes to Port Pirie
and Adelaide are the before-alluded-to Buckley’s.
Yet some day the line will have to be built, if only
for defence purposes, as a link in the line that
must stretch right across the continent, from
Sydney to Perth ; and viewing it from that point,
the Condobolin-Menindie scheme, being nearer
to a straight line than the other, is the better
route. Further, seeing that it will have to be
built some day, the sooner it is built the better,
because Broken Hill won’t last for ever, and the
railway might as well get whatever benefit it can
derive from Broken Hill while that city is some-
thing more than a hole in the ground.
«
Simpson, the Scotch inventor who claims to have
produced a gun or a catapult or something that
will shoot a 20001 b. missile from London to Paris,
has had a talk with an Age representative. Hear
him: —
All I can say is that my weapon—it is not correct to
call it a gun—is without recoil, noise, smoke, or smell.
What more do you want? What more can you have?
The noisy, dirty, smelling gun of to-day is not creditable
to a nation or a world of progress.
A nice, clean, orderly man is Simpson, but, all the
same, he hasn’t done Britain a very good turn.
If his gun will really carry 200 miles, it will enable
London to bombard Paris, but it is plain that
it will also enable Paris to bombard London, and
London is the bigger target of the two. and the
more valuable property. Also it will enable Paris
to destroy the shipping in the Thames, while the
shipping in the Seine doesn’t matter much.
Further it will enable the French, if they get
the bigger supply of Simpson’s guns, to
clear the overwhelming British fleet out of
the straits and lay England open to in-
vasion, while it won’t enable Britain to clear
away any overwhelming French fleet, for there
is none. Further, if the French planted Simpson’s
gun at Calais it seems that they could seriously
wreck London, and also do a little damage to
Birmingham and many other populous English
towns, while Simpson’s gun at Dover could only
take long shots at Paris, and the biggest French
towns, apart from Paris, would be out of its
range, owing to the fact that they lie away south.
These considerations suggest a reason why Britain
may not thank Simpson very cordially after all.
♦
“Nothing,” says the English correspondent of
an Australian paper, “ checks the steady increase
in the pauper population of this country—the de-
vices of politicians, local bodies, philanthropists
and emigration societies all equally fail. There
are now 822,862 persons ‘on the rates.’ In eight
years the total has risen by 113,689. Approxi-
mately, one person in every 40 of the population
of England and Wales is a pauper. The number
of the persons in the workhouses of this country
exceeds by 174,000 the total number in receipt of
indoor relief in America, a country which has
more than double the population of the United
Kingdom. There are now 275,000 English people
permanently immured in workhouses.” And
then the same writer gives one item of ex-
planation. The Americans have started to sell
hops in Freetrade England under cost, with the
intention, of course, of recouping themselves by
charging high prices when English competition
is killed and they have a monopoly of the
English market. The present loss they regard as
the sum they pay for the goodwill of the English
hop industry. So the annual wages paid in con-
nection with the hop business have declined in
20 years from £3,650,000 to £1,320,000. Tne
difference represents quite a multitude of people
added to the mass of British paupers. And
when all the hop people have gone to the work-
house, the price of U.S. hops will go up to just
whatever figure the U.S. trust or combine pleases.
G. H. Reid spoke some memorable words at the
Sydney Exchange Empire Day whoop-up :
By the way, was all this childish ? (No-no!) The
question arose, what could we do for the Empire. We
gave £200,000, and there were some clever statesmen
who wished to sneak even that out cf the British
Treasury. But whatever we thought about this or that
system of military development, we ought to feel that,
in equipping our boys to be soldiers , we not only pre-
served the integrity of our own homes, but equipped
ourselves, if the time of danger ever came, to stand
shoulder to shoulder with the Empire, whatever the
danger might be.
So it seems that the whirling of flags, the waving
of elocutionary limbs, the dining and hooraying,
as a contribution to the defence of the Empire are
not childish. These things are real men’s work.
But as for the genuine defence—the carrying of
the proud banner in the advance, and the fetching
away of the draggled flag in the retreat, the bitter
fighting, the long marches, the cold dreary muddy
toil in the trenches, the hunting for the scarce
provisions at the cannon’s mouth —these things
are, according to the Reid gospel, mere kids’
work. So let us “equip our BOYS to be
soldiers.” The Dkakin-Lyne Government has
ideas about equipping our young men, having an
idea that a mere cadet army is a poor thing in the
hour of trouble; but Reid must be against Deakin
and Lyne. So he advocates training the small
kiddy while the big men wave the flag and do the
feeding and hollerine - .
An attempt was made, last week, to work up a
shriek of State frenzy on the ground that
Treasurer Lyne had endeavored to put up a huge
robbery on the States, but the story fell very
flat. The situation was this : It has been the
habit of the Commonwealth to pay to the States
each month three-fourths of the Customs and
Excise money to which they are entitled; also any
other loose moneys that may be lying about.
The Surplus Revenue Bill, which appropriates
those loose moneys for old-age pensions, was half-
way through Parliament towards the end of May.
If it got quite through before May 31, the States
would get for the month their legal three-
fourths of the tariff revenue; if it didn’t,
they would get that and the loose moneys as
well. So on Friday, Lyne telegraphed to the
Federal officials not to pay over to the States
that day—it seems that the States have got into
a habit of getting their money a day or two before
it is due. Then the Surplus Revenue Bill wasn’t
passed in time, and Lyne wired to his subordinates
on Saturday, May 30, to pay in full. The States
got all the money they were entitled to ; also they
got a lot more than they were entitled to ; and
they also got it a day and a half before it was due.
And, all the same, the row about Lyne’s alleged
attempted “ robbery ” ran to columns of ridiculous
shout and curse in the daily press.
♦ ■
Australia imports some queer rubbish. For
years past it has annually taken from 50 to 100
tons of “flock” from England, and, after mixing
the stuff with its own rags, it has been sleeping
upon the abomination. A few score tons besides
have come in with the “real English-made furni-
ture,” stuffed into chairs and “ Chesterfields ”
and “Ottomans.” Nobody apparently has
troubled to inquire into the “ flock’s ” parentage;
Boards of Health haven’t so much as poked a
finger into it. Aet “flock” is nothing but old
rags torn to shreds; and (so B. Morgan, com-
missioner for the British Manufacturers’ Associ-
ation, tells The Bulletin) there isn’t in all Eng-
land a law to insist upon the offal being sterilised
either before being torn to tatters or afterwards.
It is received in all its filth from any old dis-
ease-bed of Europe ; in its filth it is.teased into
“flock”; and with its germs nicely scattered it
is exported for Australia to spread itself upon,
and hug in its dreams. The rubbish that is
turned into the imported shoddy with which some
of Australia drapes its figure does at least have to
go through a process of violent steaming ; but the
rag that isn’t quite decent enough to become
shoddy is good enough to go into the machine that
makes the “ flock ” ; and if there is an ounce or
two of Death on the rags—well, the importer gets
as much for the ounce of Death as if it were an
ounce of “flock.” The Boards of Health ought
to give an eye to “flock” ; it might even give the
thing two eyes and still do it no injustice.
The N.S.W. Dowlings have always been
prond of the fact that one of them helped to arrest
Bellingham, the assassin of British Prime Minister
Perceval, and when the assassination was alluded
to in print, the other day, without any mention of
Dowling, a family protest arose. The Dowling
who helped in the arrest was a Parliamentary
reporter at the time. He was also a sporting
writer, and became editor of Bell’s Life. He
gripped Bellingham by the collar, and extracted
a pistol and some papers from the assassin’s
pocket. Bellingham, however, was quite tame
and harmless at that stage of the proceedings.
He shot Perceval and then crumpled right up.
It is rather quaint, in view of the
Macarthur-Onslow’s expressed theory as to “the
only satisfactory officer ” being one whose “social
position is superior to that of his men, to note
that Holman, D. 5.0., who runs the Ist Austra-
lian Light Horse (the regiment which from its
inception has been a close preserve of the
Macartliur-Onslow tribe), is himself a “ranker.”
A recent bankrupt in Wellington (M.L.)
stated that the cause of his ruin was the “ harass-
ing legislation of the present Government.”
When the Official Assignee came to investigate,
he seemed to suspect that there might be some
other reason, and by the time he had dug down
to the bottom of things, he was sure of it. So
was the Court—so certain that it gave the victim
of Socialistic legislation six months. This is the
sort of person whose voice is generally loudest in
the Anti-Sosh chorus.
While enthusiasts are advocating the
claims of Hamilton Hume to a public monument,
his companion in the journey to Port Phillip,
William Hilton Hovell, should not be forgotten.
Hovell was born at Yarmouth (England) in 1786,
and came to N. S. Wales m 1813. After s:x years
of coastal trading, he gave up the sea and settled
at Narellan in 1819. Then he commenced ms
career as an explorer, and travelled from Ulla-
dulla to Shoalhaven. He accompanied Hume
overland to Port Phillip in 1824, and assisted in
the settlement of Western Port in 1826. He took
up his residence at Goulburn in 1829, and died m
1876 in Sydney. In niches in the Lands Office
front in Bridge-street, Sydney, are freestone
effisies of Hume and Hovell.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Hurnpty Dumpty.”
Theatre Royal “ The Prince of Piisen.”
Criterion { “ Mummy and the Humming
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow.”
Bijou “ Lured to London.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
V> “
“The Mummy and the Humming Bird”
opened at Sydney Criterion on Saturday night
with Beatrice Day and Herbert Flemming in the
principal parts. It is hard to say all that means
to the intelligent among local playgoers. For the
first time for a dismally long period a Criterion
audience was privileged to see more or less real
people, saying natural and occasionally amusing
things, in rooms that looked as though genuine
human beings inhabited them. It was a pleasing
shock, which sent a packed house nearly crazy
with enthusiasm.
* # * *
The story which the play tells is rather trite;
the essence of it has been exploited in a score of
Palais Royal farces. Its strength lies in the
“ smartness ” of its lines, in its skilful construc-
tion, and in the acting opportunities which it
gives. Lord Lumley (the Mummy) is one of
those charming fellows, a stage man of science.
Good, courteous, witty, generous, and a model of
unconventionality (the snobbish British menial is
reformed by the mere fact of “taking service”
with him), brave, affectionate —he has all the
virtues. But alas ! like every other upright
genius of romance, he is absent-minded. It is his
only fault. In the ardor of chemical research, he
forgets to dress for dinner; and he doesn’t
keep in mind the date of his wife’s birthday.
There arrives an Italian novelist, D’Orelli (the
Humming Bird), whose principles are infamous,
but whose memory in regard to Lady Lumley’s
birthdays is good. Lady Lumley, who yearns for
“attentions” and for a volcanic brand of love
which no scientist in the history of stage craft has
yet been known to accord his spouse, turns for
solace to the Humming Bird. The Humming
Bird is a fowl whose attentions trend inevitably
towards privacy, champagne and appurtenances.
And so Act 111. discovers Lady Lumley and
D’Orelli in the latter’s chambers entering upon the
coffee and cigarette stage of an immoral-looking
meal. The husband, stirred from his work-obsession
by the menace to his happiness, arrives dramatic-
ally at the street door. (He knows of the Coun-
tess’s whereabouts from lus valet, Giuseppe, a
Sicilian ex-organ-grinder, on whose premises the
Humming Bird has also hummed in other days.)
D’Orelli hides the lady shudderinglv, and awaits
her lord with a show of confidence. But he has.
a metamorphosed Mummy to deal with now—an
alert, resourceful being who combines the deduc-
tive powers of a Holmes with the dash of a Ruri-
tanian royalty. So vice is routed badly, and
leaves its baggage on the field of battle. Lady
Lumley is whisked home in the family brougham
and an odor of respectability, and her would-be
betrayer is left with the horrid knowledge that
the retired organ-grinder (a fanatical believer in
the vendetta principle) is on his trail with a
dinner-knife.
» * * *
Herbert Flemming’s Lord Lumley is a
fine study. It is delightful to note this actor’s
unstagey methods and the quiet, restrained surety
with which he scores. The young mime seeking
the things to avoid should hasten to the Criterion
and mark with what effect Flemming puts the
cheap laugh and the meretricious cheer behind
him. H. W. Varna’s Giuseppe is another good
piece of work ; and Miss Beatrice Day makes a
delicious and altogether human Lady Lumley.
D'Orelli, as portrayed by A. S. Homewood, strikes
the writer as an unnecessarily repulsive character.
One jibs at the idea of so crawling, unpleasant,
and obvious a dastard as he, winning female
hearts in great numbers. In the nature of things,
the real-life Humming Bird does not carry his
proclivities thus openly on his brow ; if he did, he
would wake up the Mummies of this world at his
first faint twitter. #
“ Fedora ” was revived as a wind-up to the
Beattv Mclntosh season at the Criterion Theatre
earlier in the week. The extraordinary female
who, on her betrothed being slain, hankers to
administer the death-blow to his assassin in P e^ n >
who grows to love the said assassin in sudden
order; who so grossly mismanages the business
of her “revenge”; and who finally suicides
as the only way out of her bungled
existence, proved as convincing a female staroi
title as ever. In Miss Madge Mclntosh s hands
Fedora is a slightly different Slav from some we
have known—quieter in manner, less hysterical,
more missish and young-ladylike. Yet in the
suggestion of the prime essentials of aggressive
valor and wild blood-thirstiness she fills the m l
comprehensively, and so satisfies a public vv ici
demands red meat above everything in its bardou
heroine. A notable scene was that in which
Fedora “learns all,” and denounces the photo-
graph of the dead and faithless Vlad.mir-an
episode which requires a Bernhardt if an elfec
of reality is to be achieved, and a capable actress
if it is to be rescued from bathos.
** * *
Except that the two clever people who
have hitherto been an elephant are now some-
times a horse, there isn’t any momentoimehange
in “Hurnpty Dumpty,” at Her Majesty s
(Sydney). The horse is hitched to a chariot, anrt
Phydoni and Gilbert help to roll ttrtWCgjJ
they spill » few jokes as they go. M'>»
Morgan being wanted elsewhere Miss Mata*
the Maoriland lady with the sweet voice is now
the Princess who gives Huinpty Dumpty a sta
in life; hut she doesn’t put any great quantity oi
spirit into the princessing business.
** * *
Evidently comic opera, musical comedy, 01
whatever it may be called, follows in America the
same downward tendency as in England. j
Belle of New York ” gave promise of a m
comic opera which would be at once an
amusing, and be at least comparable with tn
good English work The Mnct of
promise has not been fulfilled. t-Hav
Piisen,” produced at Sydney Royal baturday,
is a fair sample of modern American musical
comedy, and it is of the “Girl” schbol-the
“Shop Girl,” ‘ Circus Girl, am That
Girl” of present-day London fashion,
is to say, it is inane in idea, shadowy
plot, undistinguished in music-just a threa
on which to hang song-and-dance, ajdjo
display the song-and-dance variety


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
Ltd., Cinematograph Specialists and Electricians,
393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
/ PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY U. CARY, Chairman.
The progressive portions of Bent’s policy
speech were sane enough to have been inspired
by that delightful mental refresher—D.C.L.
Whisky. But as his pretty promises will requit e
much grit to materialise them, their fate depends
upon his faithfulness to the source of his best
inspirations D.C.L., the inducer of Wise
Optimism.*
Still, there is bright setting, with bright
dresses, bright singing, and bright acting,
and these make up an evening’s entertainment
which doesn’t strain the think-engine unduly,
which is a very comfortable accompaniment to
digestion, and which wouldn’t be open to any
complaint at all if it were honestly labelled
“ variety show.”
* * * *
The cast of “The Prince of Pilsen ” is
mostly Australian. There are two new comers,
Ohas. A. Loder, comedian, and George White-
bread, a baritone with a romantic part. Loder
made pretty good from the start on the first night.
He is very distinctly American in his humor,
which is of the unctuous rather than the dry
school. In his impersonation of a German-
American brewer he seems to show a trace
occasionally of an Irish-American alderman ; but
that may be only our Australian ignorance of the
true characteristics of a German-American
brewer from Cincinnati. Loder is always funny
—sometimes very funny—and he is funny in
a different sort of way from the comedians
Australia has been accustomed to lately, so he is
passed on for a vote of thanks. George Whitebread
has the figure and appearance for a matinee idol,
but his voice is unpleasantly nasal; he always
talks and sometimes sings through his nose. Per-
haps that is a matter of national habit that he can
shed later on. Far the most successful of his
items is a drinking song, in which he is supported
by a Liedertafel chorus. The girls of the cast
are bright and winsome without being particularly
distinguished. Miss Daisie Wallace has apart,
which seems to have been intended for Miss Fan
Dango. She will make better use of it later;
for the present, she is just bright and chirpy with-
out being quite coherent enough or quite agile
enough. Miss Olive Godwin, Miss Amy
Murphy, Miss Maud Thorne, and Miss Alma
Barber are of almost equal importance in
the cast, with rdles which have to be “made”
to shine out at all ; the book helps them nothing.
The ladies make them, too, very satisfactorily.
And, of Course, there is the chorus, the invariably
tuneful and gay Australian chorus, which is
always the strongest feature of a musical comedy
production in the Commonwealth. For the
rest, Myles Clifton is the second fun-maker
in a fatuous Johnny part. He works hard
and with intelligence to portray a person
who is absolutely lazy and useless and foolish,
and his assumption of a vacant mind earns
an occasional loud laugh ; but the fatuous Johnny
is a little overdone as a musical comedy property.
His empty head, his spats, his eyeglass, his loud
clothes cry out for a rest. It is to Mr. Clifton’s
credit that he gives some slight new interest to
the part with a laugh that is an exquisite idiocy.
Edmund Sherras sings well in a “second juvenile”
part, and Frank Stirling as Sergeant Bree shows a
truly ludicrous pair of legs, which will do a little
to help keep “ The Prince of Pilsen ’’ running.
-* # # *
On close acquaintance the Scarlet Trouba-
dours, at Sydney Palace, prove to be a rather
affable company of singers and jokists, whose
business is neither wildly new nor oppressively
matured, but just bright and pleasing. Both
ladies are charming to gaze upon, and
delightful to listen to, and all that they
do is done excellently. The Troubadours
are also interesting, and have a fine sense of
humor, and most of their music is of a bright and
jovial character, with just sufficient of the senti-
mental and pathetic drawn through it to make
the jovial nature of the mass appreciable.
The limited nature of a programme that is
confined entirely to the drawing room enter-
tainment gives them but little scope, but one
and all, especially the basso, Mr. Ford Waltham,
throw out strong hints that they are capable
of doing well in a more ambitious environment.
No matter what form the entertainment may take,
the great test of its value is how it makes the time
pass, and judged by that standard the S.T. are
good.
** * #
As Spencer’s Tlieatrescope at Sydney
Lyceum and West Pictures at the Town Hall are
displaying practically the same films at present, it
is unnecessary to waste two lots of space referring
to them, and it is unnecessary for the public to
spend two prices of admission seeing the same
set of films. The chief item of interest at
each is the splendid reproduction of the
great Motor Boat contest at Monaco. The
boats are first seen arriving by rail, and the
unloading process is watched anxiously, in case
something should get broken. Then develop the
blue stretch of Monaco Bay, the cloud-etched sky,
and the racing boats almost hidden in clouds of
blinding spray. The evolution of a Japanese
flower-bed into a myriad of pretty girls, and
a silk worm into a star danseuse, is a brightly
colored series. The folly of borrowing is
hammered in by a series of pawnshop views,
but the valuable lesson was mostly thrown away
by the failure of either management to secure
Wade and Waddell in the front seats.
*
Gladys Alpen will have a big concert in
Sydney Town Hall next Saturday (June 6). Miss
Rawson has promised to be present, and teachers
and scholars are coming from every public school
within 100 miles of Sydney. Also, Miss Cathie
Duff, who returns from Glasgow this week, is to
vocalise at the same building on June 13. The
merry and genial Andrew Black will lift his voice
in support.
** * *
Careful study of recent Sydney Tivoli
programmes confirms a suspicion that has been
more or less on the premises for some time past,
i.e., that tbe acrobat and the juggler have of late
years been growing luxuriantly, and that the
comedian with the green hair is gradually dying
out. So far as the ordinary comedian is con-
cerned, dying-out is about the only thing he is fit
for. The latest development is rather an improve-
ment. A man has to be a particularly bad
comedian before the populace get restless at his
turn, but if the acrobat and the juggler are not
moderately good, they don’t as much as get a look
at the stage. Dexterity is displacing humor—or
what passes for it in the theatre —more and more
every day. Present Tivoli programme includes
three acrobatic or athletic turns, one other
turn with a contortionist in it, and two
jugglers. The Rigoletto Brothers (who revolve on
ladders), and John Higgins, an astonishing jumper,
both help to shove the comedian further into the
wings. Both acts are of good average merit.
Others deserving honorable mention are the Deane
Tribune Trio, Alberto, Sylvo, the Ahlbergs, and
Fred Bluett. The poet remarked “The rest is
Silence.” In this case the rest are Silence.
Bland Holt still holds the stage at Adelaide
“ The Bondman” has had a week’s run,
with a fine and large eruption of Stromboli. Stvan
is steadily winning the public’s approbation.
rs-Bland Holt has not had as much to do as
Adelaide could wish. The co. has now gone back
to Australian drama. By the way, “ The Break-
ing of the Drought” gave offence in some quar-
ters, it being held that the portrayal of devilry by
night in a Sydney club was altogether too lifelike.
Ihe town Hall is now held bv the Merry-
makers. They are first cousins of the
Scarlet troubadours, and their gentle humor
is always well intended, though it doesn’t
always quite “get there.” Now, the Royal
Artillery band, to which Adelaide has regretfully
said farewell, is like St. Paul; it intends to get
there, and is not particular about the means of
doing so. It can play in a general way Anything,
yet it is. not too proud to hum, or whistle, or sing,
to bay like a dog and wail like a mopoke, to
imitate the Last Trump or (apparently) the tear-
ing of a yard of calico. Those short-haired, short-
moustached North Countrymen look as if they
could lay aside their instruments at any moment
and put up a good game of football. One really
good piece of work they seem likely to carry
through incidentally. They have picked up “The
Song of Australia ” in Adelaide, and play their
audiences out with it. Australia badly needs a
National Anthem. S.A. has the very thing in
stock, and this visiting English band may be the
means of making it widely accepted.
* * DC- *
“Lured to London,” which appeared at
Melbourne Bijou last Saturday night, is, to say
the best of it, quite unalluring. As a drama it
engenders profanity. As a theme it is tame—
lamentably so. Its best spots are almost as in-
spiring as a meal in a temperance and vegetarian
restaurant, where blankose and such things are on
the menu. Its worst spots daze the beholder and
leave him in a state of fright. Still the company
makes the most of it, and, indeed, develops an
earnestness that would be highly commendable if
it did not intensify the effect of such sorry stuff.
Geoffrey Carrington is the principal monster of
iniquity, and, from the commencement, asserts
his right to a nimbus from the Devil’s kingdom.
His sardonic humor, his versatility, and his white
eyeball (like a livid phase of the moon) are
dreadfully compelling. Apparently, he began
his career with a forgery—a small thing compared
with the succeeding grandeur of his exploits. Lily
Stirling, a maid of unblemished repute and
antecedents, is his first victim. She, he merely
“sedooces”—which, considering the fashion-
able design of his clothes and face-garniture,
looks like regal condescension. By a campaign
of magnificent lying and slander, he fastens Lily’s
trouble upon his relative, the Rev. Leslie
Carrington. Seemingly the reverend gentleman
is beloved of all the village—much for the might of
his left, but more for the strong dilution of Sosh
in his Christianity. He, however, goes to Lon-
don in the same train as the Lily (that girl, yield-
ing to Geoffrey's polished burble, has fled from
home and father), and his neglect in not hiring
from Johnson a train all to himself is adduced as
damning proof of the Reverend’s guilt. While
Lily’s stricken parent is inconsolable, Geoffrey
falls upon his own pa, just after that old gentle-
man’s will has been stolen by a wholly im-
possible burglar. The result of the meeting
is that Carrington, senior, after an appalling
visitation of St. Vitus and aphasia, expires in
a misfit or something. Thereafter, the narrative
becomes terribly dispiriting, and also patently
silly. The eye gets unnaturally distended in
pursuing the will and the erring Lilian. Lilian
turns up with Geoffrey in the riverside retreat of
Jake, the burglar, who incidentally holds the will.
Her father, happening thereupon, is brained and
pitched into a canal, from which he is rescued by
a nondescript kid of the “Jo” species. Succeed-
ing blotches of outrage and undisciplined palaver
lead up, with intolerable spasms, to the end, when
everything is violently put right as if it were a
dislocated neck being dragged into position.
* ■* * *
Ernest Leicester presents an interesting
picture of the democratic parson, his physique and
quiet style aiding him notably. Jefferson Taite
is unremarkable as Lilian’s astonishing parent.
Stewart Garner is nicely revolting as the devious
Geoffrey ; while John Hesford interprets a wildly
idiotic policeman with studied detail. As for J.
P. O’Neill, his conception of Jake, the cracksman,
will never be quite forgotten, and this paper lets
it pass at that. Miss Ethel Buckley’s exposition
of a waif and stray is very well done—after the
style of Miss Beatrice Holloway. Miss Nellie
Eergusson is effective as Lady Stirling ; while
an exceptional piece of work is the character of
Rosannah Lovejoy, handled by Miss Helen
Fergus.
** * *
“ The Merrymakers ” having departed for
another section of the planet, Melbourne Prin-
cess’s is, at present, like unto the mind of the
reveller the morning after—vacant !
** * *
Respecting “The Merry Widow,” at Mel-
bourne Her Majesty’s, comment, vulgarly speak-
ing, “goes off its onion,” and becomes a maniac
of the first magnitude. Whether the cause of
that amiable lunacy is the plague of music and
maid or the epidemic of Popoff’s “gags” is really
a matter of indifference. There is a lurk-
ing delight in the music, and a mastering
influence in the maids. Indeed, the maids
inspire one with deep pity for the misogynist and
the anchorite. As for Popoff, his wisdom becomes
a variant to the discussion of Gnash or Pre-
Raphaelite art at Toorakety dinner-tables.
Every person, who is a person, must have one of
his jtipes to deliver with telling effect in the placid
debate between courses. Incidentally, it may be
noted that even a mouse has its uses. That refers
to Act 111. of “The Widow,” where Margot,
Clo-Clo, etc., at the cry of “Mouse!” jump on
to chairs and, in a state of fright, gather up their
frocks, revealing—oh, so demurely !—a very few
inches of stocking. It is a revelation, but a very
shy little revelation.
** * *
Melbourne Opera House is moulting its
recent gloom, as some reasonably bright new ar-
rivals bring in their carpet bags. J. P. Ling,
“ Mimetic Monologuist” (vide the programme), is
the most incandescent item at the moment; though
Charles Mildare, an excellent imitator of birds
and bird warbles, is also of numerous candle-
power. The Kaufmanns are doing the unique on
wheels for a night or two before they go for good.
Meanwhile The Bulletin notes Miss Gertie
Cremer as a quaint—a very quaint—infant.
** * *
At Wirths’ Olympia, T. J. West is growing
retrospective. He is now careering back to the
days of the Crusades, when Richard of England
achieved many valorous deeds against Saladin.
That innovation—if it is one—suggests that West
might career right back to the beginning—to the
Fall, indeed. The suggestion has its glamor.
For one thing, it would settle those existing
doubts from which have evolved some of the
tenets of the Higher Criticism. For another, it
would demonstrate whether Adam was ab-
stemious ; or whether he managed to secrete his
cloves in any portion of his overcoat. Again, one
would like to see whether the Serpent had a
bleared eye and talked epigrams—whether, in
fact, he was the prototype of Don Juan and the
evening-dress villain with a cigarette. And yet
again, the modern woman could comprehend how
Eve ignored buttons, irrespective of the larceny
of the rib. The idea should be carried out forth-
with. All that is necessary is a camera, some
imagination, and an Adam, likewise an Eve and a
few yards of Serpent.
** * #
Revillo, the Spanish operatic soprano,
gives her first concert in Melbourne on Saturday,
June 6. Her numbers will include arias from
“La Boheme,” “Aida,” and “La Traviata,”
Allitson’s “Song of Thanksgiving,” and Luzzi’s
“ Ave Maria.”
** * #
Mr. Albert Malinson and Mrs. Malinson
(known here as Mrs Anne Steinhauer) arrive this
week from London, and give their first Song
Recital in Melbourne on June 20. Mrs. Steinhauer
is a Dane, and glows in the exalted and immediate
patronage of Alexandra the Queen. Mrs.
Malinson sings Mr. Malinson’s songs, and Mr.
Malinson leads Mrs. to the piano as a lover might
drag his bride fondly to the altar.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal, “ Miss Hook of
Holland ” is becoming bulkier with fresh interpo-
lations. One very tolerable novelty is the “Has
Anyone Seen a Lady ? ” item, in which is intro-
duced an immense vegetable cart, containing
cauliflowers—and also the lady. Simon Slinks,
the great evader of toil, conveys some fresh im-
pressions on that thrilling subject in “Work”;
and the quaint picture in the “ knitting octet”
(Act I.), wherein eight girls appear in alternate
costumes of red and black, has some points
about it.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Pro” : The late Alfred Dampier had the soul of arr
artist. Consider his physical disadvantages. You can
imagine his friends jesting at the idea of his making any
mark on the stage. The worst drawback was his elocu-
tion, and a successful mail could only be worse in the
person of a Beatty. Then Dampier had a quite inex-
pressive face. It was a pleasant, handsome face, but it
couldn’t contort to represent the seven deadly sins.
Brooke never could make his face expressive, and had to
lord it by the music of his voice, and the magnificent at-
titudes of his fine person. Yet he had no mind. Dampier
was all mind. He had every trick of the stage at his
finger’s ends, but always strove to overcome the stagi-
ness that appeared inherent in him. He made his dbbut
as the Player King in “Hamlet,” at Stratford-on-Avon,
and was proud of it. In very few' years he became a
leading man, and from that pedestal he never would
step. He bad all Brooke’s pride that way. Dampier
succeeded Irving and Neville, as leading man in
Manchester. Harwood engaged him for Australia
in ’73. Dampier had before this made his splendid mar-
riage with Miss Katherine Russell, a lady of excellent
family. Very few actors are so completely fortunate in
wedlock. I cannot imagine a more harmonious pair.
Mrs. Dampier w'as like Mrs. Charles Kean in the de-
voted care of her husband. It is many years since I met
Mr. and Mrs. Dampier in Bourke-street, he clinging to
her arm, white-haired, and apparently worn out. But
how the war-horse would wake up 1 Alfred’s devotion to
Shakspeare w'as like that of William Hoskins. His Aus-
tralian d6but W'as at the Melbourne Royal, as Mephis-
topheles. With a wonderful tour de force, he was Romeo
to Mrs. Scott-Siddons. Again, take him in Wyndham’s
light comedy part, in “Saratoga,” called “Brighton in
London.” How delighted the public were when he
brought out his two little daughters, Lily and Rose, in a
Victor Hugo piece, for which he had a cordial letter of
eulogy from Hugo.
Frederic Villiers, the w'ar correspondent who proved
to be such a poor lecturer, now gives a short turn, illus-
trated by his own sketches, at a London music-hall.
The 18ft. alligator, shot at Tamworth (N.S.W.) recently
by the owner because it threatened to chew’ someone’s
arm through the cage, had been leading an eventful life
of late. Its inclination to show fight was sudden, for the
cold of the New England tableland had made it a very
subdued reptile indeed. At the N.S. W.-Queensland
border the authorities officially regarded it as an
animal and wanted to dip it for ticks, but the
manager, after waiting for three-quarters of an hour,
did not notice that there was any rush on the part of the
officials to do the job, so he moved on with the beast still
unwashed. At one raihvay station the authorities didn’t
know how to schedule the reptile contemporary for
freight purposes, but at length they decided to chance it
as fish. In its obituary notice the Sydney Herald said
that the deceased w'as 400 years old. It seems a con-
siderable figure. Still The Bulletin isn’t going to argue
the point with the Herald. If the latter can’t be
accepted as an authority on the antique, it might as well
go out of business altogether.
Nance O’Neil has taken a header—great was the splash
thereof—into vaudeville, and appeared, together with
McKee Rankin, a couple of months ago at the Fifth
Avenue Theatre, New York, in a condensed version of
“ Leah, the Forsaken.” Albert Whelan, also remembered
here, was giving his impersonations at the same theatre.
“Star”: Old playgoers have scores of recollections of
Alfred Dampier. My most vivid one comes with a mental
picture of the actor-manager in “Robbery Under Arms”
at the old Melbourne Aleck, when a backcloth and a pile
of scenery came down with a crash, exposing the bleak
interior behind. For a moment Starlight gazed at the
ruin, then he yelled, “What did I tell you? The land-
slip! The landslip ! Run for your lives 1 ” and he led the
run off as the curtain fell. Of late years Alfred’s stage
movements were hampered by a painful physical trouble,
and when he, as the noble hero, had to struggle with and
overthrow the foul villain, it was impossible to make the
tug of war look quite realistic. Also Dampier’s admoni-
tory asides often reached the audience. “ Gently with
the actor-manager 1 Soft.ly, softly, my boy. For God’s
sake, don’t push ! ” Alfred on the stage suggested a suave
personality, but he was a stage-manager, and he had the
staire-mariager’s gift of languages. You should have
heard him at a dull push of supes, or a negligent herd of
scene-shifters. On one occasion “Adam Peer” was drill-
ing a party at Melb. Bijou, when a pious Age reporter
reproached him. “Swear not at all,” quoted the scribe,
appealingly. “ What 1 ” cried the actor-manager—“swear
not at all ? Do you think I’d ever get through with this
crew of blank blanks if I stopped to swear at them indivi-
dually ?” [The Bulletin desires to mention that “Star”
is the first scribe within its knowledge who has accused
Dampier of using language even to the most idiotic scene-
shifter. Several Bulletin men have seen him struggle
with the dreary stage-herd, and on these occasions he
absolutely refrained from the sort of speech which is sup-
posed to urge the bullock uphill.]
“Melb.”: A burning question concerns the Sunday
shows. The following are all open, and taking big
money :—Socialists, at the Bijou Theatre ; Wesley Church
Pleasant Afternoon, Cyclorama, Masonic Hall, Hippo-
drome, Guild Hall (late Hibernian), and Sangston’s;
total, seven. Wirths’ Olympia would be eight but for
Bent having killed Sunday shows in this case by a Sabba-
tarian clause in the ground lease.
“ R.N.” : The Criterion D’Orelli strikes me as some-
thing of a libel on the distinguished original, whose torrid
romances most of us have read in translations. I had the
joy of seeing this world-famed Lothario in Venice shortly
after his desertion of the great actress whose agonising
life-story he afterwards made into a novel. He was
lunching at the Hotel Danieli with two Yankee-looking
ladies and a little boy. They talked French animatedly,
and laughed a good deal. There was nothing sinister
about the notorious one’s appearance. He didn’t gesticu-
late at all, nor sneer unpleasantly, nor scowl in murderous-
wise when the waiter handed him boiled onions instead
of potatoes. He appeared a good-humored, kindly soul.
His laugh had no snarling note in it, but was open and
pleasant. He was unromantically bald on the top of the
head. Only his eyes, large, shining and expressive,
riveted one’s attention. He teased, perfunctorily, the
child who sat beside him, and drank deep Of some mineral
water or other which stood opposite him in a big,
stoppered flask. He did not “pose” so far as I could
note. In fact, he looked a very innocuous Humming Bird
indeed in contrast with the ominous inhabitant of the
Criterion aviary. Which only shows how much truer Art
is to Life than Life is to itself.
“ Lud ” : One of the fads of the late eccentric Earl of
Dudley was to hold a long lease of Her Majesty’s Theatre,
London, and refuse to let it to anyone. That is to say, he
made the conditions so onerous that nobody would take
it. There the vast and magnificent place remained, month
after month, rotting away. It was like Dickens’ Miss
Havisham, who continued through the long, tangled heap
of years to wear her bridal clothes ; or like a very curious
great mansion that yet remains in London. A gentleman
furnished this mansion for his bride. She bolted with the
third person. All through his long life the house was left
as it had been when he heard the news—the same save for
dust, moth, fluff, and decay. Her Majesty’s was burnt in
1789, and again in ls-67. This was a fearfully disastrous fire,
absolute destruction, like Elijah’s fire, even licking up the
water in the trench. The heaps of splendid music went,
the wardrobe, and everything else. The opera season,
under Mapleson, was in full blast. Exactly similar was
the burning of Covent Garden Theatre in 1808, chiefly
disastrous in the destruction of precious music. It is
supposed that the literary materials for the “ Life of
Shakspeare ” were burnt in the Globe Theatre. Good
job. Wish it had been so with Carlyle and Dickens.
“Viator”: Returning to any city, even after only a
very few years, in this rushing age, you can never see
form at a glance as to the relative importance of the
hotels, restaurants, newspapers and theatres, however
well you may have been acquainted with them before.
They change positions like a handful of shreds of paper
which one flings to the wind. Take the Melbourne
Theatre Royal. In 1884 (as in ’74 and ’64) it was at the
top of the tree, with the Triumvirate in command, ere
the Famous Three opened the new Princess’s. Then the
Royal descended to the barn-like state of the whilom old
wooden Princess’s. Next Bland Holt took it in hand,
and was years working it up to be the local Drury Lane.
Yet the Princess’s was top dog. Then J.C. W. so amazingly
fetched the rotten-looking Alexandra into the running,
neck and neck with the Spring-street house. The Royal
was rejuvenated, to the disgust of Ooppin, who couldn’t
see how the many thousands were coming back. Meynell
and Gunn chipped in with their astounding rent of £lOO
a week. The furore over “ Miss Hook of Holland ” proves
that the Royal may be the most fashionable house. The
swarming is to the high-priced divisions. At “Miss
Hook of Holland ” a Sydney man said to me : “ You Mel-
bourne people are wonderfully slack in applauding.”
“ Well,” I replied, “ I can’t make it out. This place must
have become toffy all at once.” How will the Russell-
street theatre disturb the equilibrium?
A TRIBUTE TO BLOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One of the most disastrous theatrical seasons on record
comes to a close to-day. Very few pieces produced so far
have proved attractive to the playgoing public, except
those in which crude excitement w'as an important
feature. —London Daily Chronicle.
London grows blasi somew’hat; it is bored—
Bored unto tears by Shakspeare and the wits
Who followed him. The “ classics ” last year scored
Unerringly a series of mis-hits.
The works of Mr. Henry Arthur Jones
Cut little ice, howbeit bright the star
That shone in them ; it is in London’s bones '
These days to worship Henry from afar.
In vain Pinero, Sutro, Bernard Shaw,
Laid of their best on the theatric board ;
Nothing “ went down ” the sated public maw.
Folk did not want the wine-wit that they poured.
Even the Halls of Music, where strong drink
And weakly females make their joint appeal,
Tottered the season through on ruin’s brink,
Making the veins of shareholders congeal.
But aye the thrilling Fambly ’Erald shows
Waxed famously, and went exceeding well,
Proving (what every serving-maiden knows)
“Blood—crude, red, sticky blood—will always tell.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
THE NEW WAY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is alleged against one Victorian clergyman, whom his
bishop tried to shift, that he “did not draw the Best
People.” He was not “an attractive preacher.” The day
of the dour minister who bustled people into Heaven
through trial and tribulation has gone by for ever
A wondrous vision haunted me to-day.
I saw a people tread the heavenly way,
Not straight and narrow, set with thorns and rue,
But wide and neatly paved ; and roses grew
Profusely, but in trimmest order down
The long, clean avenue that led from town,
’Neath stately, shading trees in silver crates,
Right to the stairs of Peter’s pearly gates.
Along the way slim parsons plied with zest
To point the road, and to amuse the rest..
They sang and danced, with high diverting kicks,
Or edified with clever conjuring tricks.
The black of custom was discarded here,
And silk and satin was the clergy’s gear.
And every parson was more lovely than
The loveliest kind of beauty actor-man.
Some preached from onyx pulpits ; high their choirs,
More charming than the ballet, swung on wires,
And each contrived in every line to cram
A brand-new joke or clever epigram.
Some, driving crystal water-carts, did spray
With subtle scents the smooth, delightful way,
While at the stairs, for indolent and old,
A few ran elevators, gay with gold.
These cars were marked for Papist or for Jew,
For Anglican, and Presbyterian too,
And smiling pastors with the wily gift
Ran touting, each for his peculiar lift.
Bands played on swan-like trams along the route—
Refreshments were provided, also fruit,
And Heaven’s host scowled o’er the wall in woe
For envy of the sinners down below'.
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.


900 Fancy Vests
to choose
from. J 2?
#
/fj-
r
■ '
ir
■ :
111
MUCH can be said of the New Fancy Vests for
the Winter season. We have a stock of over
900 in our Men’s Mercery Section to choose
from. Some of the newest Vestings are
those of Scotch wool, with a shadow stripe on
plain ground, in Plain Lovat, Lovat with greeu
stripe," Lovat (a pale shade of green) with Red,
Brown and Blue. These are made in Scotland.
Price - 325. Od.
Others again are just soft, plain, woollen
material in mixed plain colors.
Then there are the Knitted Vests, like the
illustration, in wool, in the following colors :
Black with Red Spots, Black with White, Reseda
with White, Red with White, Green with Red, and
Myrtle with Red Spots.
Price - 225. Od.
These Vests are sent carriage paid at the
advertised price anywhere throughout the Com-
monwealth.
Write for our new Men’s Catalogue entitled
“ Clothes Craft.”
David Jones Ltd.
SYDNEY
He tried Port Hacking after fish,
But only caught a cold, .
He said, “ Atchoo ! By Jove, I wish
I’d done as I was told.
This is indeed a Hacking cough,^
Good name it’s got I’m sure .
But next day he was right enough ,
Through Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
SOCIETY
NOT FAIR TO THE MISSUS.
A man has been sent to gaol for a month without the
option of a fine on a charge of cruelty to a horse. — News
Item.
“ By yum, an' when I nearly killed me wife you
only yire me a week! "
Alexander Brown, who died in a Sydney
hospital, and was buried, and then dug up again
and examined for signs of poison, promises to
supply one of the criminal romances of N.S.W.
Whether Jane Baikie, now awaiting trial on a
charge of filling Brown with arsenic, be proved
innocent or guilty, the romance will still be there.
The scene of the narrative is mostly laid in com-
paratively humble streets and places. Brown
was elderly, and he isn’t described as being speci-
ally beautiful, and he couldn’t spell well, and he
was some kind of plain toiler on or about a wharf
at 455. per week. Mrs. Baikie is past her first
youth, and just ordinary in appearance, and her
front name, as already mentioned, is Jane, though
the deceased Brown seems to have called her
Maude, which sounds a lot better than
Jane. Brown stayed witli the Baikies cer-
tain nights in the week, and other nights
he stayed elsewhere. In course of tone
there was so much arsenic in Brown that he died
in hospital. Mrs. Baikie was known to have pur-
chased arsenic, but thousands of people do that,
especially in these days of bubonic rat scares; and
the question whether it was her arsenic that got
into plain, elderly, wharf-laboring Brown, and
if it was hers, then who inserted it in Brown
i 3 for the jury to determine. Brown was partly
post-mortemed in the hospital previous to his
burial a month or six weeks ago; but the under-
taker was waiting with the coffin under one arm
and the tombstone beneath the other, and the
grave was calling for Brown, and the doctor seems
to have just taken a perfunctory look at Brown’s
inner cavity and let things pass. So when sus-
picion accumulated it was necessary to dig up
Brown, and it was then that discoveries were
made. On the matter of possible motives there
was talk about a will made by Brown in favor of
Mrs. Baikie—a weird brief document which reads
as follows: —
I, Alexander Brown, will, to Jane Baikie all I posess,
including the jewerely I am possed of at present.
That might certainly suggest a very clear motive
for the deep damnation of Brown’s taking off
(assuming that Brown didn t take himself off) if
Brown was a man of wealth, but, on the other
hand, there is no evidence yet that he owned any-
thing, save his boxes of clothes, a trifle of jewellery,
and an unblemished reputation for wharf-laboring,
and this last asset was buried with him. He
seems to have been almost the only man in Aus-
tralia who hadn’t even the remotest claim to the
“Page Millions,” or to any other inheritance
whatever. So the unfinished tale of Brown rests
there pro tan. There is no love interest in the
story; and the poison was a cheap, crude old
poison much used by the apprentice murderer or
amateur suicide—no experienced suicide would
resort to such stuff; and it is impossible to
build much of a halo round Brown; and the
heroine, if her daily paper portrait is reliable,
doesn’t look quite like Frances Ross when she
puts on her furs and walks with a stately pace and
a pair of high-lieeled boots through the cardboard
halls of her ancestors. In fact, it is a 455.-per-
week tale, and it is absurd to expect many
accessories for 455. a week. Even the faded back-
cloth used by a travelling company costs more
than that.
* * * *
One marriage shop in Sydney is located in
a cheap coffee palace. There are thus all the
facilities for marrying in haste.
* * * *
“Micawber” ; She was recently married
and had just moved into the neighborhood.
Added to this, she was very thin and sedate,
whilst her affectation jarred on one’s nerves. Ihe
shop was full of customers, but in no wise deterred
she made her way to the front. “Butcher, 1
wish you to serve me daily. My address is 17
this street.” “Yes, ma’am.’ To-morrow 1
would like you to send me a nice piece of-ah-
roast-beef, say about ah-one-and-a-half-ah
pounds. On Tuesday, ah, I shall not
need anything. On Wednesday you
may send a pound of chops, but for
Thursday, I must have a nice-ah-
shoulder of mutton - about -ah - two
pounds. Yes, I think two pounds
, will be sufficient. On Friday you
may send half-a-pound of anything
that’s tasty.” “ And Saturday,
ma’am ? ” queried Beef, struggling
with his feelings. “ Oh, I shall-ah-
order a small bird. I like a little poultry
once a week, and the remains will be very
nice stewed on Sunday.” I wept for her hus-
band, as I walked home with my 21b. of dinner
steak. * * * •
“ Bill Truck ” : Be the strenuous life led
by Victorian railway officials, as mentioned in
The Bulletin (21/5/’08), the following hap-
pened to a train which I was helping to
shove to its destination. Four telegrams (all
marked “ Urgent ”) overcook the conductor, and
the rest of the correspondence was privately com-
municated to him afterwards by a friend in the
office: —
(1) To Conductor Pullem : Door of the last car in your
train has not been closed. Have door closed at once.
Answer —Anthony Whistles haft, Superintendent.
(2) To Conductor Pullem : Why is door on tram open .
Answer. —J. Balaam, Examiner. , . ...
(3) To Conductor Pullem : Am advised that train lett
here with door open. Advise fully by wire. Why dis-
regard order 23? Answer quickly.—Samson Pilate,
Chief Clerk to Supt. ... ,
(4) To Conductor Pullem : Inspect train at once and see
that all doors are closed. Call at office on your return.—
Job Drinker, Trainmaster.
(5) Memo to H. Been (Private Sec. toTrainmaster): When
Pullem comes tell him I am out. He is suspended for
five days on account of open door.—J.D., Trainmaster.
In reply to the bundle of telegrams, Pullem sent
the following :
The door isn’t closed, because it isn’t there to close.
Bill reads : “Car to be billed to shop on return to have
new door supplied.”—Ferous Pullem, Conductor.
O, it is a strenuous life right enough !
THE LANDLADY'S EMPIRE.-THE HOUSE IN WHICH THE DUST NEVER SETS!
Apart from the matters of the inquest and
commission of inquiry into the Sunshine (Vic.)
disaster. Costs is likely to have an affluent time.
Here, for instance, is one case: Among the
victims were Griffiths Hughes and his three
months’ bride, both of whom were killed. The
wife left no will, and Hughes’ will, being made
prior to his marriage, was invalid. As Hughes
left considerable property, the Law will presently
want to know whether lie or his wife died first;
for, if he died first, the wife and her heirs are en-
titled to the whole of his property up to £lOOO,
and half of the residue if over that amount. If,
however, Mrs. Hughes died first, her heirs have
no claim whatever on Hughes’ estate. Further-
more, the State laws provide that, where a person
dies without leaving property of any kind,
administration cannot be granted to any person
representing the intestate ; so if Mrs. Hughes,
who had no property, died first, her friends would
be unable to obtain letters of administration, and
could not, therefore, it is alleged, sue for compen-
sation. The House of Lords settled one part of
the problem years ago, in the matter of Wing v.
Angrave. In that case a husband and wife and
all their children were washed overboard from the
Dalhousie, in 1854 ; whereupon “ the Lords” gave
a ruling, refusing to presume survivorship m the
absence of evidence thereof. But that ruling
seems to leave the question of the disposal of
Griffiths Hughes’ property as uncertain as ever.
Anyhow, Costs is fairly certain to get its share.
It had a great time in the Wing-Angrave case,
some sharks arguing—first before the Court of
Chancery, and then before the Lords—that the
husband, being the stronger, would survive his
wife, while others held that tne lady s clothing
would naturally support her the longer. Nobody
threw a lawyer and his wife overboard to settle
the question. It was a notable case, and left a
precedent; but it didn’t leave much else.
* * * *
In Maoriland the Arbitration law lias been
thrown pretty well on its beam-ends by the
decision of the Attorney-General, that a strike
occurs when it begins and at no other time—that
the throwing-down of tools is the strike, and
nothing else ; consequently anybody who doesn’t
incite men to throw down their tools, or aid and
abet the movement after the tools have been
dropped but before they hit the ground, and
merely keeps the strikers going after the tools
have hit the earth, isn’t doing anything
unlawful. It seems a pretty steep dictum ; and
yet insurance men, at least, ought to have
looked at it that way all along. For years
they held that an illness “occurred when
it started, and the difficulty of telling when
an illness really does start didn’t stop them
from hanging on to the definition. However
there was no decision on the subject till IJU.f,
when Justice Bigham said he wished the insur-
ance people’s quaint idea was wrong, but unfor-
tunately it wasn't. It was a case (the Melbourne
Insurance and Banking Record reported it at
the time) in which a Manchester man had a policy
against sickness, which didn’t cover malaria. He
had had malaria once, and when he fell ill again
he thought it was his old friend back once
more, and therefore didn’t give notice. In a few
days, when his state was critical, it was found
that he had pneumonia and not malaria at all ;
but by that time he was too ill to give notice,
and, anyhow, the policy said he was to give
notice within 21 days of the “occurrence of the
illness, and by this time the 21 days from the start
of the illness had expired. The Judge, while
pouring out gallons of sympathy, said there was
no doubt what “occurrence” meant; and bred
the young man out, and that’s how the matter
was left. •
* * * *
The Doctor of Law seems to be a mis-
understood person in N.S.W. Justice bimpson
told in court, the other day, how Dr (LL.D.)
Lang was brought in haste to the bedside of a
dying mail under the impression that he was a
physician. Barrister Coghlan (also an BL.D.jex-
plained how another LL.D. doing circuit work
found a roomful of patients waiting for him m a
back blocks town. Dr. Garran, late editor of
S. M. Herald, was more than once roused out of
bed at night to attend midwifery cases. All this
suggests need for a change. It is too late for the
medical man to alter his designation, but why
shouldn’t the law man be called Commodore
instead of Dr. ?
An amazing tale of a woman who cap-
tured an apparently desirable young husband but
didn’t know what to do with him, was tyold to
Chief Justice Madden at the present Melbourne
divorce sittings. It appeared that, early in 1905,
George Kidd, then aged 21, married a lady of 31,
whereupon they took up a market garden at
Spring Vale. But the new Mrs. Kidd proved of
a singularly frigid nature. She was so reserved,
in fact, that she never spoke to Mr. Kidd, unless
he spoke first. Apparently she prepared the meals
and tidied up the house, but as far as friendly
intercourse went she might have been frozen
Kidd or even an iceberg. Thinking that she
might need thawing, George Kidd bought her a
pony and phaeton, and desired her to go abroad
and take the sun ; but she merely gazed at him
and relapsed into another lengthy spasm of
silence. She seems to have been the most silent
woman on record since Lot s wife. Finally, when
George had endured three years of this chill
reserve, he grew weary and asked for a divorce
on the ground of constructive desertion. Justice
Madden promptly decided there was no desertion,
constructive or actual, though there might be
unconquerable frigidity, which, after three years,
might afford grounds for a decree of nullity. So
the case was postponed till next sittings, to give
the lady a chance to reply to that charge, if the
husband likes to allege it.
* * * 4
Bananaland had 22 new cases of leprosy
last year —the awful penalty for its traffic in
yellows and blacks. Health Commissioner Ham
has hopes that a cure will yet be discovered. ..he
chaulmoogra oil has been used at the Peel Island
lazarette, but better results are obtained from
guaiacol. Naturally, Dr. Ham is keenly in-
terested in the researches of Professor Deyoke, ot
Europe, who has cultivated the lepra bacillus
itself, and from the organism has extracted a fatty
principle, which, on being injected into lepers,
gave rise to a reaction, as tuberculin does in tuber-
culosis. He has thus been able
to arrest the disease in some
cases, but the wholly cured
leper isn’t yet on view.
BUSHING TO CONCLUSIONS.
TEACHER; "Now, children, who can tell the
ladies and gentlemen, on this our Empire Day
who is the kind and courteous gentleman ail
loyal Victorians think of! ”
A SMART BOY: "Mr. Bent.”
“ H.S.” complains :
I broke into Hyde Park on Empire Day,
obeisance with the thousands of young Cook,
pected to find there paying to one Jamej
navigator. I found the statue of th deserted,
this continent to the Empire, alone i w
Of all Cook's four or five million children non hed
him with a flower or a leaf from the land q the
to them. None placed about the commanding
flag he carried into Botany waters lo ’d s away
planted on these shores at old Kurnel • ‘ aroU nd a
thousands of people, young and old, crowde oook>
fifth-rate band. They mostly had the arß stood
I walked along Macquarie-street. In a rae dley of
Victoria, her podginess almost hl dd 0 j sa vage
foliage and Grand Old Flag and electric g T
colors. At the old lady's feet a politician tall-ed and
GRAPH-ese in a fat voice regarding thei Queen
Empire-building, but said no word ~ ' ji ne than
plorer, who did more in the Empire-fashiom ijf 1 windgor
all the Queen-mothers that ever satabou 1
and London palaces for a living. Has oui sense i
portion gone wrong, or what.
A WAKE OF DEAD MARINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The voyage of the American battleship fleet up the
Pacific Coast has been a triumphal progress. Everywhere
the fleet has been received with frantic enthusiasm.
Over 300,000 people witnessed the parade at Seattle,
Washington State, of bluejackets, Federal troops, and
State militia. . , , .. ,
Officers declare that lavish hospitality has demoralised
the crews, and that to restore them to their wonted con-
dition a period of stiff discipline will be necessary— Cable.
Fourteen bells in the first dog watch, and not a sign of a
star,
Smell o’ gin on the cabin stair, an’ they don’t know where
they are ;
Somethin’ black with the cork pulled out that never was
filled with tea
Bobs in the tangled wakes that streak the face of the
lonely sea.
The battleships all are out of line, and the gunboats any-
where,
A storeship walks with a cruiser trim—they hardly make
a pair.
Bos’n sits on the wardroom floor, with a mug of Mountain
Dew,
And says to the Admiral, “ Waal, my son, here’s how—l
looks towards yew ! ”
Man at the wheel has a roving eye, and steers without
much skill;
He uses the wheel to lean upon and calls the captain
“Bill.”
And the captain he never orders him to stop or to go
below,
But leans on him, as on a friend, and says, “ ’Scuse me !
my name’s Joe ! ”
The lamps are out, the course is lost, but nobody cares
a durn.
The sea has a lovely smell of rum from dead marines
astern.
A battleship with a heavy list goes rolling thro’ the fleet
And leans on the waves as if it felt uncertain oh its feet.
Nineteen bells in the tenth dog watch—there’s nothing
the crew can drink.
The ships drift by in a joyous mob—the dawn is fresh
and pink.
The gay A.B. kicks up his heels and howls in his hempen
cot,
<• Waal, you bet your life, if this is war, I want th’ hull
blamed lot!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Rheumatic Patients
Use Nature’s infallible cure —Electricity— by
wearing the Rheumagnetic Ring. Recom-
mended and used by doctors. Speedily
relieves or cures Gouti Sciatica, Insomnia,
Neuralgia and Weak Nerves. Ask us to
prove it.
We will send our Booklet FREE.
THE "RHEUMACNETIC”
RING, nickel finished, 7/6
post free.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RINC
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. U
u
£
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
j|SBßoi.i:
■A~
D
Made t<? Stand Hard Wear.
If Riding Breeches will not stand the heavy strain put
upon them in the saddle they are useless.
The striking feature of t liese splendid Riding Breeches
is the way in which they will stand the hardest of
hard wear, and come up new again in the laundry.
They are cut in good style—are perfectly shaped, and
most comfortable.
Riding Breeches in Khaki
Cotton Twill,
In Grey and Brows Tweed
Saddle Twist,
15 6 I
27 6 J
Postage
6d.
extra.
When ordering, state Measurements of Waist, Seat,
and above and below knee.
,PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
Hi
309=311 GEORGE STREET,
... SYDNEY.
Perth’s opinion of Parliament hasn’t been
gilded during the last few weeks. For years past
the city has been paying such fancy prices for its
gas that the poor co. supplying the stuff hasn’t
been able to pay more than about 25 per cent,
dividends as a rule, though now and again some
shares have managed to get a trivial 60 per cent.
Still whenever Perth reckoned that it must be
costing about lid. to cook a chop on the gas-stove,
it got into the habit of saying, “ Oh never mind,
things’ll be right after 1907.” It got into this habit
through observing that the Act said that, any
time six months or more after Dec. 31, 1906,
the City Council could take the concern over on
paying a price fixed by arbitrators. But when,
last year, the council began to talk about appoint-
ing arbitrators to find out what the works were
worth, the gas directors replied that the value of
the works was a trifle compared with the value of
the goodwill. “We’ll soon settle that!” Perth
said, and asked two counsel—lrvine, of Victoria,
and ’Siah Symon, of Adelaide—whether goodwill
came into the matter at all. Now it has got the
replies: Irvine says “Yes” and Symon says
“No,” so the council is no forrarder, and it still
costs the same old lid. to cook the chop.
SPEARING FROM EXPERIENCE.
MORD :“ Don't yeh wish yeh ’ad a mother like
that, Jane Elizabeth ? ”
JANE ELIZABETH (pessimist): “But if I ’ad
she’d on'y yawn ’em for beer."
Ihe Rev. J. Paterson, of Broken Hill, is
the latest cleric to fall in with a splash and leave
his hymn-book floating on the river of publicity.
Excited by the heated atmosphere of the General
Assembly, the rash young man brooded over the
sins of the Hill and found them blacker than
the inside of an ancient coal-scuttle. He
arose and made aspersions about the place he
came from, until it seemed that Providence
had neglected its duty in not wiping it out.
Mining investors who read the published
reports of his speech saw clearly how the slump in
metal values had come about, and remarked
gloomily that they wished they had known it
before. But Broken Hill read what its cleric had
said about it, and arose with battle in its eye and
slag in each hand. About this time the orator
had time to read over his fermented and spiritu-
ous language in cold print, and, seen with the
froth off and in a flat state, it looked as if the beer
of veracity might have been adulterated. When
he arrived back at Broken Hill—which was more
Broken than ever —he started to dilute his intoxi-
cated speech by saying “the impression given
by a brief newspaper report, in which the
sentences were not in their context, often mis-
represented the whole meaning.” This excuse
looked plausible enough, but a soulless daily got
hold of the Presbyterian Messenger and printed
the church organ’s report parallel with its own,
and that made things, if possible, worse than
before. The fatal tendency of the parson to fly
off the handle and see things is always getting one
of the cloth into trouble, and the hat and hymn-
book of the Rev. J. Paterson, of Broken Hill,
floating down stream, are a solemn but useless
warning to the rest of the tribe on the bank. The
next reverend “ charger ” may be expected to fall
in just as heavily when his time for “ seeing red ”
arrives.
• * » *
Judging by the experience of Kurz, there
is something in a name. This unfortunate was
pedalling like Hades to Beulah (Vic.), to answer
the Law’s “Whaffor?” in connection with a
charge of horse-stealing. When plugging up a
stiff rise his tyre suddenly blew out. Having no
repairing outfit, he was practically anchored.
Time was running out, and no other conveyance
by which he could reach Beulah in time being
available, he walked into Ballarat and gave him-
self up to the local police till his tyre should be
reconstructed. Then he struck more trouble. The
local police refused to allow him to continue his
journey on his own recognisances, or his own
bike, or on any other means of locomotion, and
away in Beulah the local beaks hilariously
estreated his bail. Just now Kurz is very doubt-
ful about where he stands, and the Law is in a
worse fog. He gave himself up before the actual
time when he was due to appear, and the Law
cannot absolutely charge him with refusing to
attend, seeing that he was in custody at the
psychological moment, and the police wouldn’t
allow him to go on. And Kurz’s bondman makes
no progress at getting his money back, because
Kurz was not at the court when called upon. In
the meantime the charge of horse-stealing has
been whittled down to a mere partnership dis-
pute. This looks like a matter calculated to
obfuscate even the High Court.
* * * *
“K. 0.5.”: Apropos the healthfulness of
North Queensland. I was interviewed, after
school hours one day, by a travelling oculist,
looking for biz. In reply to a remark of his, I
mentally ran over all the boys and girls in the
school, from the young lady of seventeen who
wore a brooch and a saint-like expression down to
the little barefooted kiddie who pronounced
, “fly” as “f’y,” and then I answered —
W “Look here, there isn’t a short-sighted
nipper in the school, nor yet one with sore
eyes. Why, I don’t exactly know, but the
fact remains that, though I’m not a particu-'
lariy beautiful writer, every youngster can
read my writing the length of the school
away.” Has the prevailing green of the
abundant vegetation anything to do with the
good eyesight, or is it the almost constant
humidity of the atmosphere? Both, I think.
The children have green before their eyes
almost all the time—green cane-fields, green
grass-paddocks, green trees, and a very green
playground. Then the air is always moist
—so moist that the dew that falls during
the night’ remains on the ground the
next morning, in shady places, till
eleven and twelve o’clock, and
consequently there is no glare,
even though the heat may be
great. I have been here over
a decade, and as the school
runs something over a hun-
dred pupils, a good many
children have passed through
my hands in that time. Only
one has worn glasses, and
he was not a local product,
but a boy who came from
the South for a few months,
and then returned whence
he came. We hear so
much of the drawbacks of
the North, where the
white man can’t live, that
it should be refreshing to
hear of something which
is in its favor. No one says
that the white man can’t
live in the West; yet the
children there are almost
blind, poor little sufferers,
from sore eyes. But the
North is taboo; and yet here
the eyesight is keen and clear, and the
o y es —oh, such eyes ! Often, when a child is
speaking to me, 1 am thinking, not about what
she is saying, but about her beautiful eyes, her
treasure better than rubies or diamonds, and in-
tinitelv more glorious—blue, black, brown or grey,
all colors one sees them, but all splendid, bright
and shining, with clean, firm lids, and I believe
that the climate and the environment are in a large
measure responsible.
* » » *
Within the last week or so there have been
three cases in various parts of Australia where a
divorce was refused because it was suspected that
both parties wanted it. This suspected animal is
called “collusion,” and it is a curious beast.
When Mr. Smith flees from Mrs. Smith and is
seen no more, there is a very good suspicion that
he wants a divorce. When Mrs. Smith, after the
requisite period, applies for a divorce, it is dead
certain that she wants one. But if it isn t men-
tioned that they both want it, they get it ; if it is
mentioned that they both w’ant it, they don’t get
it, because it becomes collusion. If the same rule
were applied to conveyancing, then a house could
only be sold if the buyer didn’t want it at any
price, or else if the seller simply hated the idea of
parting with it. The fact that sales of property
are only made when both parties are agreeable
represents collusion in its worst and most con-
stant form. It is time the Law fixed its eye upon
this evil and did something with it.
The N.S.W. Tramway Department, a
branch of the service that is now controlled by
the imported genius Johnson—the man who was
to make everything right—gloomily anticipates
something like a breakdown a few months hence.
The U.S. fleet will be here, and a tremendous
extra strain on the Sydney tram service will
naturally follow. More electric power has been
wanted for a good while, and then it will be very
badly wanted. But the system which caused
Johnson to be imported leads naturally to the
importing of the new electrical machinery. It was
ordered, and some of it came and proved defective.
Some of it started, but didn’t come; it was
wrecked on the voyage out. The making of some
more was delayed by strikes in England, which
country is beyond the reach of N.S.W. arbitration.
So now electric power is so scarce that even in
the slack winter season several new tram lines
which have been built cap’t be opened for want of
electric current to run the cars, and when the
weather grows warmer, and business increases
through the young man taking his ‘' tart” to Coogee,
and on top of that there arrives a huge extra rush
of traffic, caused by the advent of Uncle Sam’s
fleet, the system is expected to double up like
boiled blotting-paper. Then the proud and pos-
sibly scurrilous Yank will ask the reason, and he
will*be told that the importing craze has done it,
and he will speak through his nose with unutter-
able scorn and say “Great Scott!” And inci-
dentally the revenue will probably lose three
times as much in tram fares as it thought it was
going to save by the employment of cheap labor
on its new machinery.
* * * *
That strange man who ties up girls and
then leaves them lying about was heard of a week
or two ago at Centennial Park (Sydney), and so
far as is known he is still untraced. He was quite
a harmless person this time. Sarah or Jane, the
servant girl, was taking in the clothes at dusk,
when —so she says—the man leaped on her, took
down her back hair, tied her arms with a sheet,
wound some more sheet round her head to prevent
her screaming, and then went his way. He did
no harm to Susan, and she doesn’t believe she
would recognise him again, so there is no likeli-
hood of anybody being hanged. When stories
like this are untrue they merely signify a certain
humble craving to be pawed—even pawed in the
imagination—and the craving can usually be
traced to some drama at which the girl had “six-
penn’orth of hang over,” and in which the queenly
heroine was dragged round a good deal in the
moated grange by the handsome villain. A certain
desire to be a heroine and to be similarly dragged
round comes over some girls, and makes them
throw themselves round on vacant allotments
about dusk. And sometimes, it may be, a bloke
does the deed, but the elusiveness of that bloke is
something amazing.
* * * •
Since Minister McNab’s book got loose,
Maoriland has been realising that it is a country
with a past, and relics are beginning to crop up
all over the islands. In Canterbury the site of
the old Kaiapohia Pa, which Te Rouparaha
stormed and sacked, has been reserved, and some
attempt is being made to reconstruct the old
fortress. For years a curiously smooth and per-
forated stone has been an object of interest at
Plimmerton, outside Wellington. It has been
removed to the museum, for that interesting
old boulder is now said to have been the
anchor of Kupe, the Maori Columbus, who
came from Hawaiki, when the islands were
occupied by the moa hunters, and that hefty
bird made sweet music in the evenings by
burying his bill in the mud and blowing the
air of “ God Save the King” through it. Kupe,
unless tradition lies, was a man of parts. He
sailed down the west coast of the North Island to
what is known now as Port Nicholson, where he
called the two islands after his daughters, Makero
and Matin. The young ladies were left there for
safety, and Kupe crossed Cook Strait and slew a
fearsome octopus—probably a land syndicate—
which had grabbed the South Island. Then he
returned, picked up his daughters, wrote his name
and address on sundry cliffs, and returned to
Hawaiki, wherever that was, by the east coast.
Why he left his anchor behind him has never
been explained, but he seems to have been a
Dropper, like that other great navigator,
Brassey. He also left sundry paddles behind
him, and these too have been placed in the
museum. It’s remarkable how curios turn up
when they are required.
THE FULL PLATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a recent sitting of the Melbourne Presbyterian
Assembly certain reverend members declared that the
only time when the clergy could get the business man to
listen to them was when he was eating his lunch. “ Un-
less we can speak to him while he is eating, we shall not
speak to him at all,” said one minister. It was suggested
that city men be invited to bring their lunches to church
and eat them there while the service is progressing.
This is not quite a foolish plan,
But Church must go one better,
It can’t induce the city man
To listen to the Letter
Unless it fills him where he sits
With cups of tea and cake, and bits
Of grateful bread and butter,
While from their pulpits, placed on high,
The pastors very long and dry
Denunciations utter
Of theft, adulteration, cheating,
Likewise the sin of over-eating.
We see the Church stretch arms of love
To meet our mundane wishes.
The preacher can’t be heard above
The clatter of the^dishes,
Except when, for a moment, none
Are calling : “Soup, two ! ” “ Corned beef, one !”
Of course, the watchful vicar,
To so control the drinking that
No head-piece may outgrow its hat,
Himself will serve the liquor,
While bishops, in their cunning gaiters,
Should make most amiable waiters.
The Bread of Life is not enough
To satisfy the sinner ;
From caviare through fish and duff,
He asks a six-course dinner,
And clergymen who want to book
A crowd will have to learn to cook.
“ The Bread” may do on Sunday,
But parsons, too, are forced to state
The old, familiar empty plate
Will never do for Monday.
Too long in church man’s sought to light on
Some solid matter he could bite on.
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.
DEPOSED
yeM-3 I l°ng,ed 1° be
\ I [bfir b\\ in sJI. %/ts & disfMsce.l
J f 15° 0 n wter fierce je<d®us
—df only (V m°meni she /f
==> other mens vs
existence. \
There t°tt°wed tD<>nlKs wneo :>be
nine,
jor hM tw> yen'hoc,
ißuryoo l Celt lc°uld
ifv trifle °| ber clewion
'Inerted IW htinfc *11 »nfc.U
Was spmtimes b°nn£>
5T°r£j§£>
TOfcjdt iK O-ll!
N&ltctccL opv, *X e*5t l ?brM
Am fcmntjy I ol€5E> Ibt b^by.
SNEL.


Queensland Mining Managers.
A “NATIONAL” SUCTION GAS PLANT,
working: with charcoal or coke, is the cheapest power on earth.
N.B. —The “National” is known throughout the World as the “Gold Medal Plant,”
having beaten all competitors in open trial.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER (EL CO., 04 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Street
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street
. BENDIGO : Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK— Winding- Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam ump
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes.
Sole Agents for Camel Brand and Camel Hair Beltings, made only by F. EnWines.
Manchester; Ransomes Sims’, and Jefferies Ltd’s Portable Traction and Stations y
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
Nearly every State Premier and Treasurer has
been crowing' about his surpluses. At the same time,
nearly every one of them has been vigorously cursing the
Commonwealth which-provided a large part of those sur-
pluses by handing over hundreds of thousands more than
the States had any legal claim to, even under the tem-
porary Braddon clause. Again and again Australian
Treasurer Lyne has issued a warning that things couldn’t
go on that way—that Federal expenditure was increasing,
and that there were large demands for further increases.
Month by month, however, he has paid over to the
States all the surplus revenue that he didn’t
actually require to meet hills in hand. Now with
£992,000 thus already overpaid during the current
year, the Government proposes to provide out of the
June revenue for coming payments in regard to naval
defence (£250,000) and old-age pensions (£222,000); and,
as there will be other heavy expenditure for the month,
it is probable that the States will receive nothing in June.
Out of this a tremendous State grievance has been manu-
factured ; in fact, when Treasurer Lyne proposed to
withhold part of the May revenue, Wade, of N. S.
Wales, boiled over, and politely referred to him as a
burglar. Yet the plain fact is that, even if the
States don’t get a ha’penny in June, and assuming that
the three-fourths of the revenue for that month will
amount to £731,000, they will still have received £261,000
more during the year than the Constitution says they are
entitled to.
It is quite true that Parliament hasn’t yet
passed legislation which will absorb the money that the
Treasurer proposes to lay by; but that legislation
is proposed, and there is every reason to expect
that it will be carried. If it isn’t, then the
money will revert to the States. The States may
not be able to understand this system of finance. When
one or two of them have adopted old-age pensions, they
haven’t troubled to specially provide the money. They
have relied upon dipping into the one old common pot,
and when that pot ran out, there was Uncle Cohen to fall
back on. The Commonwealth Government hasn’t, how-
ever, got an uncle ; consequently before it incurs a large
new expenditure, it wants to see the money wherewith to
pay the bill. So far as N. S. Wales and Victoria are con-
cerned—the two States that are making most noise—they
already have old-age pensions ; so if the Commonwealth
pensions are authorised, those States will not have to pay
their own pensions, and they will be that much to the
good.
There is, of course, the inevitable Constitutional
point, and the same people who took the wire-netting
business to the High Court talk also of taking this newest
State Fright. The Constitution says that, as long as the
Braddon clause lasts, the States shall be entitled annually
to three-fourths of the Customs and Excise revenue ; also
the surplus shall be paid month by month. The State-
Frighter says it is monstrous and unconstitutional—and
Wade says it is also burglarious—to retain for the Com-
monwealth in (say) June moneys in excess of the actual
expenditure for June. According to this bright theory,
if in May the Commonwealth’s one-fourth isn’t sufficient
to pay the actual expenditure for May, then the unpaid
hills can never be paid, because the Commonwealth
wouldn’t be entitled to pay anything but June bills with
June revenue!
The S. Aus; Government has taken one step
further towards securing a coal-mine for its own use;
after the Premiers’ Conference in Melbourne, Acting-
Premier Kirkpatrick passed on to Sydney, and up to New-
castle, and is understood to have got a Maitland property
put under offer. Of course, the S. M. Herald and other
such organs, obsessed by State Frights and the divinity
of Private Propputy, see in the scheme many “ novel pos-
sibilities.” “There are also considerations of high poli-
tics,” the Herald remarks: “ How will N. S. Wales like
a portion of her territory owned by another State?”
Well, Maoriland has an Intelligence Bureau in Sydney,
and has a lease of premises in the heart of the city ;
and if it had bought the premises instead of leasing
them, nobody would have even dreamed that
any consideration of “ high politics ” had arisen. Also if
N. S. Wales, instead of paying rent for Agent-General’s
offices in London, buys the crib, neither King Ed. nor
Asquith is likely to lose two seconds’ sleep over the busi-
ness. Even though they have got State Frights on the
brain, these papers probably wouldn’t have seen any con-
siderations of “high politics” either if it hadn’t been
that, if the State buys a mine, some Sydney coal sellers
will lose a mighty good customer. Yet if any other con-
cern requiring as much coal as the S. Australian railways
were content to buy the stuff instead of working its own
mine, the financial bosses of those papers would certainly
regard that concern as wildly improvident. Some of the
inter-State shipping cos. that sell coal don’t, year in and
year out, handle more than the S. Aus. Government con-
sumes ; yet there probably isn’t one of these cos. that
doesn’t own either a whole mine or part of a mine : the
Adelaide S.S. Co. only the other day bought a big slice of
the North Bulli, for instance, and Howard Smith’s finger
is deep in the Caledonian and other mines. What is good
business for these shipping cos. is surely good business for
the S. Aus. railways.
The Bank of New South Wales
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1902.. 115,507 10 p. e. = 100,000 15,507 1,297,050
5ept.,1902.. 118,229 10 „ „ 100,000 18,229 1,315,279
Mar., 1903.. 115,793 10 „„ 100,000 15,793 1,331,072
Sept., 1903.. 117,370 10 „ „ 100,000 17,370 1,348,442
Mar., 1904.. 119,582 10 ~,,100,000 19,582 1,368,024
5ept.,1904.. 120,435 10 „„ 100,000 20,435 1,388,459
Mar., 1905.. 127,811 10 ~„ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept., 1905.. 126,963 10 ~,, 100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar., 1906.. 129,385 10 ~,,100,000 29,385 1,472,618
5ept.,1906.. 130,115 10 ~ „ 100,000 30,115 1,502,733
„ I(VV - i 141,581 10 ~,,100,000 26,581 | , - 0Q ~,,
Mar., 1907.. j V oted to Provident Fund 15,000 j 1 > 529 > 314
5ept.,1907.. 142,966 10 p.o. = 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
Mar., 1907.. 156,742 10 ~,,124,399 32,343 1,593,988
Twelve months ago, and for many years previously, the
paid capital was £2,000,000 ; of the extra £500,000 issued
last year £493,720 had been paid up at the end of March,
1907. The new capital when all paid up will mean
£25,000 extra in half-yearly dividends, assuming that the
10 p.c. is maintained. So far, not only has the extra
amount called for been available, but more has been
added to reserves than for any previous period since the
early ’nineties. Now, it is practically impossible that
the new capital has really earned IQ p.c. ; so the only
conclusion is that for some time previous to the increase
of capital the position of the bank was being improved
internally by using undisclosed profits to write down
the book-values of doubtful assets. No doubt this bank
has had a good deal of that to do. It was one of the
few that did not close during the banking crisis
15 years ago ; and, though that added to its prestige, it
also prevented it from having a sudden cleaning-up at the
expense of either shareholders’ capital or depositors’
interest. What reconstructed banks did at one swoop—
not always thoroughly even then, it is true—this bank has
had to do gradually. On the published figures it may have
seemed a rather daring thing to practically undertake to
pay 10 per cent, on 25 per cent, more capital ; but it looks
less daring when it is remembered that this gradual
cleaning-up has almost certainly been in progress, re-
ducing the ostensible profits, but strengthening- the
general position.
Even now, though it is highly probable that
assets have been steadily written down out of profits, the
interest shown on capital and reserves combined is not
very large. The recent figures have been :
Sept., 1904.. £7 3 0 p.c. Sept., 1906.. £7 9 10 p.c.
Mar., 1905.. 7 10 10 ~ Mar., 1907.. 7 4 1 „
Sept., 1905.. 7 8 8 „ Sept., 1907.. 7 12 10 „
Mar., 1906.. 7 10 3 „ Mar., 1908.. 7 15 11 „
The new capital raised during the past two half-years is
reckoned as having been available in each case for half
the term. In comparing these figures with those of the
’Asia and Union, for instance, it must be noted that those
two write down bank premises by an appropriation of
profits, whereas the “ Wales ” shows profits net after
writing down premises. It seems, however, that (pro-
bably having had some other very good use for the money)
this bank has not used any large amounts of undisclosed
profit in that way. To illustrate that, compare the
premises accounts of the three banks mentioned :
Ten years Five years Last
ago. ago. Account.
N. S. Wales .. £628,000 £678,000 £690,000
Australasia. .. 461,336 355,583 239,572
Union .. .. 743,968 724,660 621,966
Nevertheless, writing-down is mere book-keeping : it
really doesnlt of itself make a bank either better or worse
off. That is to say, so long as a bank doesn’t distribute
the profits, it doesn’t matter, so far as strength goes,
whether the amount is written off, and thus disappears
from the balance-sheet altogether, or whether it is added
to the reserves, thus swelling the figures. If, however, a
bank, instead of writing-off, piles up its figures, one re-
sult will be that its profits will not show up as well when
calculated on the basis of reserves combined with capital.
The fact that banks adopt these two diverse plans in
varying degrees makes comparisons of bank results in-
effective in some respects.
Some further Bank of N.S.W. figures :
Mar., 1907. Mar., 1908.
Notes .. .. £1,085,704 £1,063,124 Dec. £22,580
Bills, etc 3,338,069 3,575,535 Inc. 237,466
Deposits .. .. 26,235,346 26,929,331 Inc. 693,985
Liquid Assets .. 14,129,901 14,360,275 Inc. 230,374
Advances.. .. 19,481,752 20,737,153 Inc. 1,255,401
Premises .. .. 700,000 690,000 Dec. 10,000
Deposits have increased, but not to the same extent as
advances. That is suggestive. Consider the increase of
deposits:—
Mar., 1904 .. £21,251,908 Dec. £91,154
~ 1905 .. 23,787,243 Inc. 2,535,335
~ 1906 .. 25,352,701 Inc. 1,565,458
~ 1907 .. 26,235,346 Inc. 882,645
~ 1908 .. 26,929,331 Inc. 693,985
So, after a very remarkable run, the tide of deposits has
turned. But there is a large increase in advances. In short,
many of our markets have fallen from their boom heights,
and drought has happened along in various parts. During
the boom —for there has been a boom, though a lot of
human ostriches refused to see it—men bought properties
at big prices, in many cases from the banks themselves ;
and some bank people smiled and said —“ We have got
rid of all our ‘ stiff ’ properties, and made a profit, after
all.” Now, however, they have to start financing the
purchasers. Nobody expects that the same disaster will
happen now that happened 15 years ago, yet that was
partly how the trouble started then. Fortunately, even if
things should slump as much as they have boomed, the
banks won’t have the old worry of a vast quantity of
newly-borrowed foreign money, lent by nervous deposi-
tors who demanded repayment in huge lumps at short
notice or no notice at all.
* * * *
Provident Life Assurance 00. (Maoriland): —
Expenses Total Carried to
Total and Divi- Out- Assurance
June, Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund. Deficit.
1898.. £8,673 £2530 £7,837 £10,367 £2,203
1899.. 9,177 2835 6,462 9,297 2,323
1900.. 9,797 2936 6,195 9,131 £666 1,657
Capital forfeited .. .. .. 60 1,597
1901.. 10,378 3332 6,205 9,537 1201 396
Assurance
Fund.
1902.. 12,237 3907 7,231 11,138 1099 703
Capital forfeited 20 723
1903.. 13,472 3988 7,791 11,779 1693 2,416
Taken over from old co. .. 612 3,028
Dec.,
1904.. 15,289 3434 8,449 11,883 3406 6,434
1905.. 15,826 4342 8,402 12,744 3082 9,516
1906.. 18,350 3650 10,793 14,443 3907 13,423
1907.. 20,357 4375 11,775 16,150 4207 17,630
This little concern, carrying on business mainly in
Maoriland. devotes its energies to industrial insurance ;
and on the road it manages to yield 5 per cent, dividends
on a paid capital of £5250, The figures in the published
balance-sheet don’t tally with those in the table above.
The old co.—the Provident and Industrial it was called—
reckoned in among the assets certain business-extension
expenses, as well as £3240 by which the premises had been
written up. The new co. wrote off the former “ asset,”
but maintained the latter, having fortified itself with
some approving valuations. There is also the dividend
(£263) to be deducted from the balance-sheet statement
of funds. The expenses are high, as they always are in
connection with industrial insurance. In proportion to
total income the cost has recently been :
1900 ..£7O 8 3 per cent. I 1904 .. £52 16 4 per cent.
1901.. 63 4 8 „ 1905.. 51 18 11 „
1902 .. 59 1 10 „ 1906 .. 58 16 3 „
1903.. 57 16 7 „ | 1907 .. 57 16 9
In other words, of every £1 received by way of premiums
and interest, no less than 11s. Bd. goes, not to provide
insurance, but to pay for the upkeep of the office. It is
ghastly, and seems ghastlier still when it is remembered
that the proportion is not being reduced. Apparently
this co. does not carry on an ordinary life business. It is
very doubtful whether any concern ought to be allowed
to carry on industrial business only. Where an office has
both branches, and is decently conducted, the thrifty
members of the industrial branch are regularly implored
to exchange their policy for an ordinary one. Having
got them into the habit of paying premiums, the decent
office points out what a tremendous saving it would be—
what an infinitely better bargain it would be for them-
selves —if they saved up the fortnightly premiums for a
quarter, and paid them in in a lump. Of the Us. Bd.,
they could save at least Bs. by doing so. Apparently
there are people who can’t save up fortnightly premiums
for a quarter ; for them such offices as this perform a ser-
vice, though it is a wretchedly poor one. Yet that is not the
fault of the offices —it is the fault of the system. If work-
men’s insurance is good (and surely that won’t be ques-
tioned seriously), the only reasonably satisfactory plan is
to insure the workman automatically, as it were—just as
the N.S.W. miner is insured. It costs him 4£d. per week,
but because the responsibility for collecting that amount
is thrown on every employer with regard to every work-
man, the expenses, instead of running to nearly 70 per
cent, of the income, are actually under 4 per cent. The
other 66 per cent, is thus available for additional benefits.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and Agency
Co., of Maoriland (Dunedin): —
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1899 .. £l3OB 12£ per cent. =£lol6 £292 £1146
1900 .. 1943 12i „ „ 1016 927 2073
1901 .. 1585 12J ~ ~ 1016 569 2642
1902 .. 1799 12£ ~ ~ 1016 783 3425
1903 .. 1359 12f ~ ~ 1016 343 3768
1904 .. 2057 12£ ~ „ 1016 1041 4809
Premiums on new share issue 1332 6141
1905 .. 2302 12£ per cent. = 1093 1209 7350
1906 .. 2094 12£ „ ~ 1172 922 8272
1907 .. 1817 12J „ „ 1172 645 8917
1908 .. 2205 12| „ „ 1172 1033 9950
Besides doing ordinary trustee work, this co. carries on
an extensive agency business, and has a seat on the
Dunedin Stock Exchange ; and though it confines its
Exchange operations to commission business, the combi-
nation of broker and trustee doesn’t seem desirable.
Probably on account of this broking and commission
business, the co. has liabilities amounting to £16,706 ;
they are merely described as “ balances due to the co.”
In any case, no matter what other business the co. may
carry* on, there is one thing with which clients of the
trustee branch can comfort themselves—the uncalled
capital is very extensive; there are 25,000 shares of
£4 ss. each, and only 7s. 6d. per share has been paid
up. The business is highly profitable; capital and
reserves combined show earnings for the year equal to
£l2 Is. Id. per cent. The shareholders’ funds —which of
course are the clients’guarantee for the proper discharge of
the co.’s duty—are represented by mortgages and deben-
tures. It would be an advantage if the latter were parti-
cularised ; “debentures ” is very vague. Debentures, or
something of the sort, were, for instance, issued 30 years
ago to finance somebody who even in those days was
having a shot at those alleged “Page millions” which
lately engaged the attention of a Sydney co. ; and some
of those 30-year-old bonds are understood to be still
circulating.
The Sydney Permanent Freehold, Land and
Building Co. :
Profit Loss Total Capital
on on Loss nomin-
Busi- Proper- for Total ally
Dec., ness. ties.. Year. Deficit. Intact.
1897 .. £lB7 £1,522 £1,335 £17,730 £85,025
Loss.
1898 .. 32 3,383 3,415 21,145 81,610
1899 .. 33 2,328 2,361 23,506 79,249
1900 .. 340 34,372 34,712 58,218 44,539
1901 .. 562 2,723 3,285 61,503 41,254
1902 .. 361 2,006 2,367 63,870 38,887
1903 .. 89 89 63,959 38,798
1904 .. 383 1,725 2,108 66,067 36,689
1905 .. 352 236 588 66,655. 36,101
1906 472 120 592 67,247 35,509
1907 ..521 521 67,768 34,989
If any loss were made on property sales last year it can’t
be traced ; and yet there were apparently some fair-
sized transactions. At the end of the co.’s year 1897,
the properties, advances, etc., totalled £204,017. The
net deficit was then £17,730. The properties, advances,
etc., now total £74,513, and the deficit is £67,768. Thus
in 10 years the assets have been reduced by £129,504, and
the deficit has grown £50,038. Deduct one from the
other, and it seems that in 10 years £129,504 (book value)
of assets have paid off £79,466 of debt; and there are still
£40,000 of deposits to pay off. Whether the remaining
assets will do any better than those that have been got
rid of is uncertain. Nothing can be ascertained from
looking at the rents; last year they only amounted (net) to
£196. Most of the properties are vacant lands—very many
of them are suburban blocks ; and the new municipal land-
tax won’t improve the prospects of getting rid of them
at big prices. That land-tax will touch up many drones
who have been holding large areas, waiting for somebody
to come along and buy them after other people have
made them valuable ; the land-tax will very likely drive
many of these properties on to the market, and for a co.
like this that spells disaster. The Sydney Permanent, etc.,
had thoughts of resuming business in the regular build-
ing-society way ; but it finds that even the Act of 1906
isn’t elastic enough to allow it to start afresh. In any
case it would need more capital.
* * » *
The Tasmanian Loan, Guarantee and Finance
Co. (Hobart): —'
Dividends and To Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
Mar., 1902.. £419 5 per cent. = £394 £25 £2711
Sept., 1902.. 398 5 „ „ 394 4 2715
Mar-,1903.. { 4 "written’Off, £872 394 } ~ 1873
Sept., 1903.. 490 5 per cent. = 394 96 1969
Mar., 1904.. 530 5 „ „ 397 133 2102
Sept., 1904.. 541 5 „ „ 399 142 2244
Mar., 1905.. 529 5 ~ ~ 399 130 2374
Sept., 1905.. 557 5 ~ ~ 399 158 2532
Mar., 1906.. 564 5 „ ~ 399 165 2697
Sept., 1906..' 625 5 „ „ 399 226 2923
Mar., 1907.. 597 5 „ „ 399 198 3121
Sept., 1907.. 574 6£ „ ~ 505 69 3190
Mar., 1908.. 659 5 ~ ~ 430 229 3419
The paid capital, which stood at £15,200 for many years,
has been increased to £16,365 by the issue of 2330 £1
shares, paid to 10s. The deposits, etc., on the other
hand, are rather less, amounting to £13,650 ; and,
except for £1062, capital, deposits, reserves, and every-
thing else are in “mortgages and other securities.” The
co. lumps things whenever and wherever it can, and
figures have to be taken on trust. In the published
accounts there is certainly nothing to explain the larger
profit for the half-year ; in fact, the reduced “loans on
mortgage, etc.,” would point the other way. Possibly
the higher profits are more of the curses of Federation ;
they are understood to be particularly devastating in
Tasmania.
*■*■■*■*
Principal Westralian results for the month :
Value
Ton- Re- per
nage. venue. Profit. ton.
Great Boulder .. .. 13,531 £45,305 £25,018 67/-
Golden Horseshoe . 22,980 51,537 20,145 44/10
Great Fingall .. .. 21,281 35,102 13,815 33/
Perseverance .. .. 16,029 24,753 5,738 30/10
Ivanhoe .. .. •• 19,034 42,100 21,030 44/3
Kalgurli 10,710 29,674 15,647 55/5
Orova-Brown Hill .. 11,681 16,006 4,447 27/5
Associated .. .. 10,375 21,825 8,462 42/1
Lake View Consols .. 9,513 12,513 1,257 26/4
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 12,528 20,028 5,884 32/3
Associated Northern .. . 3,609 9,100 5,039 50/6
Orova-Black Range .. 4,140 10,374 .3,625 51/1
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,105 4,663 2,420 44/2
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,030 12,504 2,176 27/8
Gwalia South .. .. 1,902 4,947 2,191 52/-
Hainault .. .. .. 6,050 7,116 713 23/6
North White Feather .. 1,980 3,300 824 33/4
Golden Pole .. .. 1,278 3,039 350 47/7
Gwalia Consolidated .. 4,637 5,853 800 25/3
Ida H 1,120 2,883 383 47/-
Vivien .. .. •» 2,704 4,717 804 35/
Ingliston Extended .. 1,600 2,250 26 28/1
Northern Mines .. 8,599 6,073 4 14/-
During the first four months of the year divi-
dends amounting to £640,865 were paid by Westralian
gold-mining cos. The principal items were as follows
Ivanhoe, £140,000 ; Horseshoe, £90,000; Kalgurli, £90,000;
Fingall, £68,750 ; Boulder, £65,676 ; Associated Northern,
£52 000 ; Perseverance, £35,000 ; Sons of Gwalia, £32,500 ;
Associated, £24,76S ; Black Range, £12,687 ; Oroya-Brown
Hill, £11,250; Gwalia South, £BOOO ; Golden Ridge,
£4635 ; Havilab, £3150 ; and Cumberland, £2OOO.
On December 31, Great Boulder (W. A.) had,
apart from mine equipment and ore in sight, the follow-
ing assets : Stores, £25,155 ; gold in transit, £707 ; shares
companies, £5916 ; gold specimens, £lO3 ; sundry
debtors, £2210 ; loans, £15,000 ; bullion on special deposit,
£19,841 ; cash and bullion in hand, £127,608. Total,
£196,540. Estimating the co.’s debts at £36,000, this
leaves a credit balance of about £160,000. Seeing that
the mine is now over four years ahead of the mill, and
that about 700 ft. of 40dwt. ore has just been exposed at
2200 ft., the outlook seems as bright as ever it was. The
co.’s income for last year amounted to £564,274 ; and,
after allowing for all* expenditure,.paying £262,500 in
dividends, and taking the amount brought forward into
account, a balance of £6435 remains to be carried for-
ward. The annual meeting was held in London the other
day, when chairman Doolette told shareholders a lot of
cheerful things, and sent them on their way rejoicing.
» * » *
The last English mail brought news of the
Golden Horseshoe’s operations for 1907. After being
debited with £21,222 for development (written off),
£35,755 for plant (also written off), and other charges, the
revenue account shows a credit balance of £257,458 ; this,
added to £61,599 brought forward, makes a total of
£319,058; Dividends and other disbursements amounting
in all to £264,304 have to be taken off this amount,
leaving £54,754 to carry forward. Costs were reduced
from 28s. lOd. to 255. 6d. during the year, and this figure
is tipped to be improved upon during the current year.
According to the official estin.ate, the mine has more
gold in sight than any other in the West, and as prospects
are good at depth, and the co.’s liquid assets now amount
to considerably over £lOO,OOO, shareholders haven’t much
to worry about.
When the 1907 balance-sheet was made up,
the Golden Horseshoe Co. had a credit balance of
about £55,000 and ore reserves of a gross value of 2|
millions sterling. Mine development (£207,679) and plant
(£440,251) now stand in the books of the co. at nil.
Boulder Perseverance’s income for 1907 amounted
to £344,131 ; and, after deduction of all charges, a profit
of £96,843 was earned. As usual, a big song is made about
reduction in working costs, in the present instance to
18s. 2d. ; but as the recoverable Value of the ore treated
was about 345. sd. per ton, and as a working profit of
only about 9s. Bd. is shown, the real costs, including
everything, are 245. 9d. There is far too much juggling
with figures in this way in the West'. During the year
dividends absorbed £69,972, investments were written
down by £8795, and £50,000 was placed to reserve. This
leaves £44,527 to be carried forward. New’ works
mentioned in the report include the testing
of the main ore bodies at 1750 ft., to prospect
for the lode now being worked across the
eastern boundary in Associated ground, searching for
the high values obtained by boring at a depth of 1424 ft.,
and also the further development of the Perseverance
lode in the south end of the property above the 500 ft.
level. With regard to future profits, the management
thinks that, unless some accident happens, £90,000 will
be easily reached for the current year.
On December 31 last the Perseverance Co.
had over and above its just debts about £90,000 in
cash, bullion, loans and investments ; but £49,470 of this
sum was owed by ex-chairman Frank Gardner.
* * • *
A proposal to allow directors 2 per cent, on the
amount of each dividend, by way of “further remunera-
tion for their services,” was put forward at the Sons of
Gwalia meeting in London, but as shareholders bucked
it was dropped, and a bonus of £lOOO, as “ extra re-
muneration,” was given instead. Seeing that the
difference between the two amounts is only £2OO, it is
difficult to understand why a fuss was made about the
payment of one and not about the other.
After paying the final dividend for 1906 and the
directors’lJ per cent., the Ivanhoe (W.A.) had reserves
of £133,593. After paying £240,000 in dividends for 1907,
it will have reserves of £136,019, or a gain in reserves of
£2426, so the total profit for the year 1907 was £242,426.
That is net; £35,720 has been written off mine de-
velopment and £12,165 off plant, etc., being the
amounts spent during the year. The total amount
paid in divs. from first to last, including the final
for 1907 (£90,000), is £1,990,000; and that amounts
to 43 per cent, of the total gold recovered (£4,584,045).
Working costs, excluding development and depre-
ciation, were last year got down to 17s. lOd. per ton.
Five years ago they were £1 7s. Id. Where reduced costs
are necessary to counterbalance reduced values, a move-
ment of this sort is, of course, very admirable ; but in a
case like this, where the concern is foreign-owned, it also
means that the foreigner gets a larger and the Australian
a smaller proportion of the gold won. Bewick, Moreing,
and Co., who are the consulting engineers, estimate the
ore reserves at 1,049,714 tons, worth 48s. 2d. per ton ;
but manager Nicolson makes the total 122,977 tons less,
though he sets the average 4s. per ton higher. The
difference between the two estimates is £lll,OOO.
* * * *
Associated Co. (W.A.) is increasing the treat-
ment capacity of its mill to 12,000 tons a month. The
additions should be completed by the end of the year,
when an effort will be made to increase the monthly profit
to £9500 or thereabouts. Evidently the directors are
bent on “getting the public in ” somehow; and they
think that more plant and a broad hint about a bigger
surplus is as good a way as any.
* * * *
Ivanhoe Junction (W.A.) has passed right out
of sight. Tenders were called a month or two ago for the
purchase of the plant and leases, but as nothing further
has been heard about the matter, the inference is that
nobody cared to offer much for the turn-out.
Hainault (W.A.fis looking very sick. Divi-
dends ceased in January, 1907, and the prospect of
their renewal is a bright blue color. Some time ago the
shares were boosted to 355. on the inference that the
increase in the treatment capacity of the mill to 8500
tons a month would mean bigger dividends, but share-
holders have since found out to their sorrow that this
was only a false alarm. For one thing, the grade has been
brought down ; and for another thing - , only 6000 tons or
thereabouts are being put through the mill, which means,
if it means anything at all, that the ore is getting poorer,
and that the enlarged plant is too big for the mine.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe Co. (W.A.) has opened up
70ft. of lldwt. ore at the 2000 ft. level of its newly
acquired Ivanhoe South Extended lease, and values look
like continuing. It must have known something.
• * • *
The Bulletin’s opinion of the Koolonobbyn
find, near Southern Cross (W. A.), is now being endorsed
by others. The inspector of mines for the district has
reported that the discovery is not nearly as good as the
public has been led to believe. A number of disappointed
prospectors, who were lured to the place by the dazzling
yarns told in the local papers, go one better and say that
its name ought to be shortened to Mud.
» * »
The old British Flag, at Laverton (W.A.), has
furnished another rich patch of gold. So far about £lOOO
worth has been taken out, but four times this amount is
alleged to be in sight. This mine was once owned by Dr.
Laver, who is credited with having unearthed specimens
to the value of £lO,OOO. #
Webster’s Find, near Malcolm (W.A.), is being
given another trial. This mine has changed hands
several times, the last owner being a rickety concern
known as the Perseverance Co. Some time ago a heavy
downpour flooded the workings and caused this co. to
in despair. As it decided not to come back again, a local
prospector acquired the property is now working it.
Milling has been started at the Boulder No. 1
Co.’s St. G. orge leases, Mt. Magnet (W.A.). It is esti-
mated that enough gold will be recovered above the
90ft. level to pay for the property and equipment , so, l
this calculation pans out all right and values h°'d d ’
there should be good dividends for shareholders later on.
The Bro*wn Hill and Oroya (W.A.) have paid 70s.
per share in dividends since their amalgamation in 1 .
but, judging by appearances, there is very little left
the cupboard. ,
South Barrambie (W.A.), whose disastrous
career was alluded to last week, has decided to throw it
up ; and if the undertaker—Alec Peacock— supplies >
thing- more than a plain deal coffin, there won tbe en g
money to pay him. ,
The Marvel Loch, over whose finances there is
trouble in Melbourne, lies 20 miles south of Southern
Cross (VV. A.). Bruce Stirling, one of Perth s oldestjou
nalists, floated the co., and George Hogg
manager of Fraser’s mine to take charge of the you I.
Though the co. was said to have a bulging credit bMance
in Melbourne, Hogg found it difficult to car ry t
West, and finally was shunted, by wire ; J>ut he hung
to the billet until his solicitors had collected ‘ ,
The Loch has crushed close on 1000 tons from dne P
ment for a return of loz. per ton, ai) d, g„„ a fairly
financing, more will be heard of the property as a fairly
big average grade (12 to 15dwt.) proposition.
* * * *
Queen Margaret (W.A.) has again reconstructed.
During the past 10 years this co. has P a ® tin f e co
dends, yet fresh capital has had to be ra.sed from time t
time to continue operations. Had a reserve j]
established in the first instance, all would have heen w
but the hateful habit of distributing as dwidends
everv penny of profit earned, and making n P
for the future, seems to have got the best of the dire


Strength and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your Bankers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and. if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR. NOR REMOVE YOUR
estate from his hands.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
V • Manager.
2 » 4 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE C M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF CWALIA 8.84 „
Australian Office:
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
-
1 he Aerial Tramways wnich have been erected
for the British arid Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * «
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. ) bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “pops” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has orilv one working' part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. Ir some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working-
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [4
+ ■*■*•*
The Review, of Sydney, in its October, 1907,
issue, writes regarding the new Combined Life, Accident ,
and Invalidity Policy of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited : —“ We must congratulate the
Colonial Mutual upon this latest development of its
business, and would at the same time commend this very
liberal and complete policy to the earnest consideration
of our readers.”*
A popular idea of mining is taking gold out of
quartz and putting it into the pockets of shareholders.
Unfortunately, however, this process is often reversed,
and quarts of gold are taken out of the shareholders’
pockets and put into the mine. This is what happened
(to the extent of £150,000) in the case of the Northern
Territories Mines of Australia, Ltd., near Port Darwin,
and the shareholders having got tired, the director*
decided to realise, and the whole of the magnificent
plants, comprising winding engines, batteries, air com-
pressors, copper smelters, copper converters, blowers,
locomotives, water tube boilers, compound and triple ex-
pansion engines, buildings, etc., by Fraser Chalmers,
Robey and Co., and other standard English and American
makers, has been purchased, and is now for sale, by
Messrs. Cameron and Sutherland, machinery merchants,
of Sydney, Melbourne, and Ballarat, who will be happy to
supply full and reliable particulars, and prices delivered
to any port in Australia. Write for catalogues.*
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting,-— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tf.nax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * » •
The engineering and pipe works of Mephau
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust ; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; also burning, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 4Sin. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 9i)A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
In connection with the visit of the American
Fleet, engineers will be interested to note that 16 of the
vessels, including all of the Class “A ” battleships, are
fitted with water-tube boilers of the Babcock and Wilcox
make. This boiler is also being extensively adopted in
the Australian Mercantile Marine, two recent orders being
the S.S. Paringa, 1500 1.H.P., and S.S. Koombaba,
4200 1.H.P., both for the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s inter-State
trade.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« ♦ * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
Those who-saw the Shay Locomotive for the
Commonwealth Oil Corporation being erected at Darling
Island, a few weeks ago, will be interested to learn that
this co. has placed its order with Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd., 7 Bent, Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street,
Melbourne,, for another “ Shay,” this making their third
order. These locomotives, which are coming to the fore
in Australia, wifi solve many of our Railway problems.
Specially constructed for service on steep 'grades and
sharp curves, they obviate the necessity for tunnels and
cuttings, thus making railway construction cheaper and
reducing working expenses.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
So L E «£:—, for KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES. as purchased by the Covts. of N S W., Victoria
> and Tasmania, and all principal mining com
panles, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lvell M & R Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Eleotrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2 '
Cumberland, at Norseman, is another offender of the
same sort. Developments are reported, calls are made
dividends are paid, and reconstructions follow with the
regularity of the church collection-plate. Yet share-
holders, who seem to take an interest only in the
gambling side of mining, look on and say nothing.
Great Fingall Co. (W.A.) held another annual
meeting in London the other day, when shareholders
tried to look pleasant. The general managers reported
that, inclusive of the ore extracted in the interim, the
estimate of 2£ years’ supply, made twelve months’ago
still held good. This means that no material reserves
have been opened up during the past year ; also that, if
the management took the bit in its mouth and worked
the mine to a standstill, the mill could only keep going
another twelve months. The outlook is, therefore, not
cheerful. The real fly in the ointment is that, while the
shoot of ore met with in the bottom levels is as strong
and as long as that opened up above, the values are poor.
Under these circumstances, this year may show a further
drop in the gold output ; still, this will largely depend
on results obtained from development work in the bottom
workings.
* * • *
From E. P. Mackey, part-owner of the Trans-
vaal, Southern Cross (W.A.) \—Re our show, referred to
11. 7/5/’OB. I have invested £4OOO (my partner, A. T.
Wilson, has done likewise) in connection with the
development and equipment of the Transvaal, and we
have received no financial assistance from outside. Some
well-advertised mining people desired to acquire our
property on their own terms, but, because they could
not, have formed a sort of Stinking Fish crowd, and have
not failed to play the refractory ore card for all it is
worth. It was in order to combat this sort of thing that
I appealed to the State Government for metallurgical
corroboration (or otherwise) of the work of our own staff.
(Not every mine-worker cares to incur the publicity of
results obtained from such a source.) And this is what
Alex. Montgomery, State Mining Engineer, reports :
‘ Vou may confidently expect, by the process von have
decided to adopt (dry milling, whole roasting, and direct
leaching with cyanide solutions), as good (if not better)
an extraction in practice as Mr. Simpson, State Mineralo-
gist, obtained (82 per cent.) from his treatment tests.”
The mine has been sampled on several occasions, as Tub
Bulletin said ; and the value and volume of the lode have
never been questioned, so far as I know. If, as The B.
implies, the mine is unworthy because capital has held
aloof—well, that deficiency will be remedied at an early
date, as then the capital will be “ up.” Meantime leave off
aiming clods at a pair of men who for years have been
making a living working mines in a district where the
high-grade mining lord could not make enough to keep
himself in cigars.
• * * -K
Mine managers and others fed Works Minister
Lee at Broken Hill, and poured a steady stream of figures
into his glass. G. D. Delprat, of the'b. H. Prop., told
how his co. had already put through 800,000 tons of
“ tailings ” for 200,000 tons of 45 per cent, concentrates,
while the Sulphide Corporation had put through 420,000
tons for 168,(W0 tons. The Sulphide Corporation had
done a little zinc smelting (the zinc concentrates have to
be smelted), and as for the B. H. Prop.—“ To-day our first
spelter furnace is pouring its thin stream of white
metal into the moulds ready to compete with the pro-
ducts of our combine friends in the old countries.” There
are 6,500,000 tons in the tailings heaps, equal to say
1,500,(XX) tons of concentrates, equal again to say 700,000
tons of metallic zinc. That is in the surface dumps alone.
Underground and measured up there are 13,000,000 tons
of ore—that is in all the main lode mines—equal to eight
years’ extraction at the present annual rate of about
1,650,000 tons; and developments are still going on.
Large figures these ; but the important thing is that they
must not be swallowed alone —they should be mixed with
the metal-market figures before being taken.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 very wisely lets a quarter
go by without a div. At the meeting in Melbourne the
question of shutting down until metal markets improve
was only mentioned to be brushed aside. The fact is, a
Broken Hill co. can’t shut up a mine like one closes a
shop at night, and find it right for business straight away
in the morning. Over a great part of these cos.’ ore-
dressing plants water has to be kept moving, or the
machines would go to pieces. Also, a big mine staff
takes some getting together. Likewise, Block 10 and
one or two other mines are on the move all the time, and
it is a matter of constant work to keep them propped up.
It is because of the inevitable expense, even if production
is stopped, that the weaker B.H. cos. which haven’t sub-
stantial liquid resources ought to be handled very
cautiously just now. It may mean reconstruction later
on ; in fact, it has meant that already in the case of the
B. H. Junction.
* * * •
Rising Sun, one of the litter that did some
utterly ineffective scratching on the flat south of the
Broken Hill ridge, lately sold its claim for £lOOO, and now
goes into liquidation. One of the big cos. (Block 10) was
the buyer, not so much because it hopes to get any' ore
there as because some water can generally be pumped
from the shaft, and the surface may come in handy some
day. So far, the New White Leads Co. has escaped
liquidation, but it is only a matter of months. This group,
though monstrously puffed during- the boom, never had a
hope : the co.’s cash resources, for one thing, were in-
sufficient.
• * * *
Several reports have been published lately
regarding developments in South Coast (N.S.W.) gold
mines ; but none of the finds are of much consequence.
Nerrlgundah recently made a stir, but it was only
through the discovery of a few rich specimens in old
workings. Both there and at Donkey Hill, 20 miles
nearer Moruya, there are small shows that would pay if
there were works at hand ; but the stone won’t stand the
cost of carriage to Cockle Creek. The only mine of any
size at all is the Bimbimbie, which is fossicked constantly
b.v tributors, who send 2oz. stuff to the Creek. Latterly
a newcomer, Johnston, has tackled the field, and has put
up a furnace at Donkey Hill ; he expects to roast out the
arsenic and get a clean extraction, but the business is
quite experimental. Still the South Coast is hoping hard,
for it is deadly dull at present.
Great Oobar (N.S.W.) shares, after plucking up
for a while, have taken another header in London,
quite likely somebody thereabouts has got information
that it is not considered prudent to pay any dividend for
the past term. No announcement to that effect has been
made, but one may be looked for with a good deal of con-
fidence.
Attracted by rich developments in the True
Blue, Wvalong (N.S.W.), outside financiers (whose name
is mostly Solomon or Levi or thereabouts) are directing
their attention to the field, and already control the
Homeward Bound, Barrier, Brookmans, Klond.yke and
tailed Back. The two first-named are looking well dow n
to 500 ft., the reefs being up to 2ft. wide and containing
mineral ore worth from 12oz. to Isoz. gold to the ton. Levi,
oolomon and Co. are doing everything, as reg-ards surface
appointments, in the very best manner, and appear to
Jhr P P w kS ° f i"°u ney for development work. But the
to nrn.t fc th a - ned l h ? ws ln the bunch mentioned have yet
H ' P ’ Fletcher has taken over the
management of the Barrier, vice F. Johnson, resigned.
nthp 6 P os ' t i'? n at O.K. (North Queensland) is
montL l i’° re n, Cdeerful than was anticipated. Twelve
irfj a f° tbeir e° pper was costing about £62 per ton,
and it is a distinct step forward that they are now realis-
InartpH ® o, ? eth _ ln »; under £5O. That there would be a
aving during last half-year has been obvious by
s®*• running of the smelting plant,
. er f ls nothing which cuts so disastrously
i ito costs as intermittent smelting, particularly
where !abor is not to ° plentiful - ,
rurtner, the transport arrangements, now entirely in the
? nands, have been brought to a creditable state of
organisation, which is a vast improvement on the chaos
of the teaming days. No better proof of the efficiency of
!ii u » g S' nsat , lon ls wail ted than the fact that the supplies
ll hut beat the unusually long wet season, stoppage being
necessary only for about 10 days. The ore smelted during
hl X ear totalled 8857 tons, the best for one month
ieing ] tons ; this looks as if a considerable amount of
nux were necessary. The recovery works out at 7-8 per
cen . copper, equal to about 700 tons blister copper.
Ihe average market at Best Selected figures for the
term was over £64—a little more than £4 above
standard price. Included in the profit of £13,266 for the
rw v ear ??. tbat derived from metal in transit during
October ; this would probably realise prices well over
l i u, a ’ *- 4869 was spent in development, and the
hank balance (including £B5OO for copper in transit and
on hand) is set down at £18,966. Chairman Newell, at
the half-yearly meeting held at Cairns last week, indulged
in the usual sanguine remarks about future dividends,
although he appears to have given up the idea that
shares are an investment, and not a speculation.
At O.K. the ore now being smelted is wortli
r f-! er , under 8 per cent. ; but a good development
ot ntack ore took place last week in the northern block,
and that may sweeten up things.
* * *
hrorn Rockhampton (Q.) : Premier Kidston
has devised a big' scheme for the development of the
Dawson Valley. If Mount Morgan will take its coal from
« I ° v ® rnl }ient, the latter will undertake to open up the
field, and will build a railway to connect the rich valley
with Mount Morgan. This province, nearly as large as
Tasmania, is hot now easily accessible, and for that
reason has remained undeveloped. But its potentialities
in agriculture and mining are very great. Besides the
coal there are copper shows, and Mt. Morgan is prepared
to buy the ore or else take over such of the propositions
as are worth touching. As Mt. Morgan progresses, and
the mineral interests expand, the rural population can
go out and cut timber and milk the cow. Rockhampton
will be benefited, too, as this fillip to trade will increase
its shipping. Captain Richard is enthusiastic over the
big- idea, and assures the people that the bargain is prac-
tically made with the Government. He recognises there
will be an Anti-Sosh how'l, but he is too practical to
bother his head about that. Experiments with the
Dawson coal are now in progress to determine its suita-
bility for Mt. Morgan’s class of work.
* * * #
Kidsvold (Central Queensland) is to be given
another chance by a Bundaberg-Maryborough co., w'hich
is to acquire the Mount Rose, Stockman Junction, Mount
Rose P.C., and other mines in a 40-acre block. The
Mount Rose and Junction worked for 10 years, gave gold
\vorth £170,000, and paid £70,000 in dividends. But
the stuff that remains, so far as is known, is of lower
grade (355. per ton) and more refractory.
“PI at man, ” from Irvinebank (N.Q. ) : Re Gil-
more and the par (B. 14/5/’08) that the recentdevelopment
was only a flash in the pan. As a matter of fact, the
level is looking better than ever. Manager Alf Shepherd
has proved himself to be most conservative in his esti-
mates of quantities and quality. Writer recently inspected
Gilmore’s, and will venture the prediction that the shares
are going to be a nasty surprise to those misguided indi-
viduals who “specked” them. Threepenny divs. are a
certainty for some time to come, and a reserve fund can
be built up at the same time. Recent developments tend
to show that the various shoots worked from the sur-
face will make into one main body. The hauling
machinery is now working, and the output of stone will'
be doubled.
* * * *
The last return from Vulcan (N.Q.) was 763 tons
of ore for 41 tons of concentrates, valued at £2046. But,
in spite of this poor return, shares are in better request,
because the mullock which cut off the tin ore at the
950 ft. level is only a few feet thick, and tin has been
proved below it. Also the shoot found near the shaft
below 1200 ft. has never been properly tested yet, and
some good ore may be got from there. Still, with tin
falling and the monthly returns none too good, and the
upper levels showing very little ore, Vulcans are risky.
* * * ■*
Dr. Redmond, of Charters Towers, is still bat-
tling in the interests of a proposed new co. to work under
some private-property blocks within the Mills United
area. He writes: “ Instead of 70 acres of unexplored
ground, as stated by young Tom Mills, or 4500 ft., as
stated by his venerated father at the previous half-yearly
meeting, 17 acres and 500 ft. would bring them up against
freeholds vvhich they are ‘ gridironing,’ and which they
hope to get for nothing, but which I am doing my best
to rescue and form into another freeholds co.” If the
new co. didn’t have to go to the expense of sinking a
shaft, it would be all right ; but that necessity is the
insect in the ointment.
• * * *
An effort is being made to resuscitate the
Degilbo (Q.) district, where the mines have mostly
dropped out during the past few months. Among these
the Mt. Shamrock gold mine, which w’as recently under
offer to G. P. Doolette for £15,000, has had exemption
for six months. Properly handled, it should give good
results, but it has never been fortunate in this respect.
Most of the ores hereabout are very complex, nearly always
containing copper and bismuth, and often also arsenical
pyrites and zinc. For this reason they are somewhat
difficult to dispose of at satisfactory figures. The
Commonwealth copper and bismuth mine has a fissure
lode over 2ft. wide at 200 ft., and has prospects. This
show has the reputation of being the most up-to-date in
the district, and, it is said, will shortly add a suction gas
plant to its equipment.
* * * *
There has been an inquiry lately for the once
well-thought-of, but lately little-heard-of, Chillagoe-Rud-
digore (N.Q.). The explanation lies in the completion
of arrangements with the Chillagoe Co. to handle Ruddi-
gore ore on terms which, it is estimated, will show a
profit to Ruddigore with lead at anything over £9 and
silver at 2s. The Ruddigore Co. is one of the few N. Q.
mining concerns that didn’t go in for a large capitalisa-
tion ; there are only 5000 shares, of which 2000 are in
reserve.
Gympie (Q.) shows a slight improvement; the
April return of 11,572 tons averaged £1 19s. Id. Costs
are, as a rule, considerably lower at Gympie than at
Charters Towers; for instance, South Glanmire and Monk-
land quotes £1 ls. 9d. for mining and milling. This old
mine has shown better form than was expected by those
who sold at 6d. a while back. The long western crosscut
has intersected 2ft. of solid quartz, and the next objective
is the black slate. It is just the sort of gamble that
Gympie mines mostly are. The reef is supposed to be the
Orient, and if that is the case there should be another
reef further west. The last crushing (268 tons for 1550 z.)
was profitable ; but all that can be expected yet awhile is
that the mine will pay its way and provide for a little
prospecting. Still the Monkland black slate floors have
been so productive in the past that a good discovery is
quite possible. The Queensland Government intends to
assist Gympie, and schemes for the deepening of three
shafts are to be submitted to the Mines Department.
-Tasmania is now enduring the aftermath of the
Oolebrook fiasco, listening to the mutual recriminations
of the responsible heads. It is a history of blundering
Japing to conclusions. In the first place, early in
1907, the holders of the Oolebrook leases, being threat-
eneu forfeiture, found they had to do something,
and the something they decided on was smelter-erection.
f 'Y ere warne d to think well over it, and make sure
of their ore reserves. Apparently they were satisfied;
anyway, the work went on, and in December, 1907, the
chairman (Senator demons) told shareholders that “at
many mining meetings shareholders had the position
painted in too glaring colors, which were sometimes de-
ceptive, but with the Oolebrook mine he could not take
any other view than that they had a sound venture.” No
doubt Clemons spoke in good faith, as he is still a large
shareholder. Yet previously the property had had ex-
haustive sampling by several firms, which all showed
their opinion of it by turning it down. Mt. Lyell,
H. H. Schlapp (for the Curtin-Davis Prop.), the
Lemprieres and the late C. M. Henrie all agreed in
making the ore contain about 0 - 7 to 1 per cent, of copper,
with traces of gold and silver. Samples shipped to Eng-
land for treatment by the Elmore process also went about
1 per cent., and the Oolebrook Co. in years past published
a considerable number of assays, all verv low. These
assays are said still to be lying at the co.’s office. It is
hard, then, to understand the optimism.
Cecil Rae now modestly only claims to have
been smelting manager, and refuses credit for the fiasco.
But if he were not the general manager, who was? He
states that he was employed to design and erect a smelt-
ing plant, though the Tasmanian West Coast sticks to the
opinion that the furnace, which is the main detail, was
designed by the late C. M. Henrie. • Mr. Rae Was on the
mine six months, took no assays (he says) until the plant
was nearly completed, and then evidently put his trust in
Providence. And Providence declined to give 3 per cent,
results from a 1 per cent. mine. The results read like
burlesque to the outsider ; but it has been a grim reality
to the shareholders and to the men who, having seven
weeks’ wages due, only received the first fortnight (for
which the directors were personally liable).
* * * *
“What’s up with Briseis?” This little
inquiry is put four-and-twenty times a day in Melbourne,
and there are four-and-twenty different answers. All the
while one dealer pops the stock out in thousands in the
Melbourne market. The first little yarn was that
London was tired. Then, when big - lots of shares
were suddenly delivered, it was said that Currie’s
report was known. After that, the story was that
the old Briseis was near extinction, and ditto the
Brothers No. 1. There is more truth in the last than in
the first statement. When all the cards are on the table
it may be found that the way to make money here was to
risk a bit. Tom Luxton is thought to have flitted out
first, but as he ties wool on his feet before he moves, no
one is sure. Still his beaming face indicates that he has
discounted Currie’s report, and sits on velvet, as befits
one of his degree. Certain it is that the Ringarooma tin
won’t be got without a lot of dead work and a goodly
outlay. This is the real key to the selling.
Welsh and Slater’s, the mining show near
Ballarat which Georgm Buchanan, Alec Peacock, Jonah
Ward, and other mining nobs floated in a rush one
Saturday night at Creswick, isn’t to gutter out. Black
and Babington, who backed the show and took up for-
feited shares that some early birds bad dropped, now
claim, in the name of the co., the value of the 4800 £1
paids that went to the floaters, the value of 4000 contri-
butings which helped to make up the swag ; also 2s. fid.
(with interest) on 20,000 contributings issued to share-
holders. In the name of the co., also, they demand a
refund of the value of the battery bought from a firm in
which one of the directors is alleged to have been in-
terested at the time of the sale. Certain other odd-
ments, such as the return of the brokerage commission,
are asked for; consequently there is a nice prospect of
costly litigation arising out of this particular Saturday
night mining float, and the result may be the ultimate
settlement of some sharp points of law in regard to pro-
motion matters.
* * * *
“Geology ’’ Dunn got the Castlemaine (Vic.)
people to drill the Wattle Gully line of reef at Chewton, in
order to test the saddles there : but 570 ft. of boring
only produced blanks. Now Dunn talks of a shaft 500 ft.
deep, with 100 ft. crosscuts. Shareholders want to know
who is to foot the bill. Bent, who can't see the surplus
ahead that he expected, says he won’t have any more
bills. So Wattle Gully will have to bloom its own yellow
gold, or “ bust.”
* * * *
G. D. Meudell, who went to England six
months ago, took some Victorian brown-coal options in
his bag, and managed to persuade J. Bull to look with a
friendly eye at the parcel. Major Willis-Jones will arrive
within a week to give John a professional opinion on the
deposits, which include properties at Morwell, Laverton,
and Werribee.
* * * *
C. Redder (Pirie): Apply A. «T. Draper, Cairns
(Q.)....Commercial: No value B.K.G. : Don’t know;
but, if you send the co.’s balance-sheets, will try to form
an opinion.
* ■* * m
Some people cannot understand why
copper should be worth four or five times more than
lead. They argue that with the world's copper produc-
tion at, say 700,000 tons, while lead production amounts
to no more than 900,000 tons, there should not be such a
disparity in price. In a general way, metals produced
from the richest ores by the cheapest processes are the
cheapest; and silver and gold associated with base metals
also affect their price. Lead is cheap because it is usually
associated with silver, and because a big mining camp like
Broken Hill produces ore that gives a furnace extraction
of 10 per cent. lead. Copper is relatively dear because
big representative mines like. Mt. Lyell, Cobar, and Mt.
Morgan get an extraction of no more than from 2 to 3 per
cent, of copper, with variable but usually small quanti-
ties of gold and silver. As to cost, Mt. Lyell certainly
can show lower costs for mining, smelting, and convert-
ing than Broken Hill can do for merely mining and con-
centrating ; but, on the other hand, the cost of refining
Mt. Lyell copper, gold, and silver is much more than the
cost of desilvering the Broken Hill lead at Port Pirie.
The new British Companies Act, which comes
into force on July 1, contains some clauses that might
well be adopted in Australia. One clause provides that,
within three months of that date, any colonial or foreign
co. which has a place of business in Bull’s country must
file with the registrar a certified copy of its charter or
memorandum and articles of association, a list of its
directors, and the names and addresses of persons in the
United Kingdom authorised to accept service of any pro-
cess on its behalf. It must also supply the registrar with
an annual statement of its affairs. Another clause pro-
vides that a limited liability co. of “ colonial ” origin must
exhibit conspicuously on its billheads and letter paper,
and in its advertisements, the name of the countrv in
which it is incorporated. A fine of up to £5O is to be
inflicted for failure to comply with these regulations,
with a further penalty of £5 for each day during which
the failure continues.
»*’» ■»
A long letter came out from ex-Queensland
metallurgist Alan Gibb, now in Rhodesia (Central Africa),
the other day. There appear to be some extraordinary
shows in there. In one place they talk of 4,000,000 tons
of lo per cent, copper ore. Gibb, who is superintending
for an Anglo-French co., says that the deposits are so vast
that they cannot be worked out below 100 ft. in this
generation. In addition there is gold, some of it asso-
ciated with platinum and palladium—as high as loz. per
ton of the last two. Central Africa also has a tin belt,
but less is known of it. The railway is gradually going
through from Lobito Bay, on the West Coast; from there
it is about 1100 miles t-o the mines. At present copper
would cost something- like £BO to land in London, so
no metal can go forward for a few years.
* * * *
For the first three months of this year the Rand
mines produced gold of a realised value of £7,124,117.
Providedthe present rate of production is maintained, it
is estimated that the value of the 1908 output will run
out at about £28,500,000. As this great banket field has
produced over £200,000,000 worth of bullion, and paid
nearly £46,000.000 in dividends, it has a long start of any
other gold-producing district, and the field that catches
it will have to travel faster than the new Sydney motor-
car regulations allow.


EDUCATION BY POST
'High Salaries await our
students of Shorthand, Type-
writing, Bookkeeping, Ac-
countancy, Electrical Engi-
neering, &c. “ Home Study,”
post free. Stott AHoare’s Busi-
ness College, Moore St, Sydney
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure won’t cure
Bad habits or York hams,
Nor would it do in Irish stew,
Or hair-wash or in jams ;
It won’t cure leather, freckles, warts,
For working men or toffs,
But Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure will cure
Your colds and cure your coughs.*
ft
“The Store for Men!
SMART SAC SUITS —beautifully Tailored to your order —50/-, 55/-, 60/-, 70/-, 75/-,
85/- to 105/-. Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Post Free,
immediately on application.
OVERCOATS —Finest English Tailored —handsome and exclusive in designs 21/- to
85/- each Underclothing-, Shirts, Collars, Ties, Hats, Caps, Boots and Shoes.
' Clerical, Academical, Military Uniforms, Fancy Dress, Costumes.
Lincoln Stuart & Co. po-.. l ta
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ABRIGIN
MILITIAS
“Elmore”: “Karl” (B. 7/5/’08) misses
badly in his grab for “ Cict’s ” scalp. To begin
with, gohannas do live in wombat country. N.-E.
Victoria is a case in point. Secondly, the
wombat invariably lets his front parlor to bunny,
who crosscuts in about 2ft. from his land-
lord’s hall. Bunny, however, seems to be the
only lodger allowed, and woe betide even him if
he ventures more than 2ft. in. If he or any
other visitor approaches the wombat’s sanctum
sanctorum or back premises, a rear view of an
irascible old hatter is presented, the which (viz.,
the view) becoming suddenly agitated, a cwt.
or so of dirt, gravel, and stones is shot at the
rate of about 60 miles an hour in the intruder’s
eye. This is the wombat’s subtle method of in-
dicating that he is “ not at home.”
A MATTER OF CONFUSION.
MAGISTRATE : “ How do you account
for your condition? ”
DEFENDANT: “ Well, your Worship, my landlady
gave me wine jelly for dinner a week ago.
Last night I had a little trifle, and they
must have got mixed."
“Agricola”: The N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioners have almost completed their annual
distribution of the musk-melon, which is becoming
such a curse in Riverina. In the autumn, when
the plants are loaded with ripe fruit, orders come
along that the fettlers are to chop up all the vines
between the railway fences, and thus prevent the
vegetable horror spreading. The vines are dug up
and dragged into heaps, leaving behind them a
trail of melons. Thus the seed is scattered far
more effectually than the plant could manage by
itself, if it were left undisturbed. I have noticed
the same pleasant habits in connection with the
destruction of Bathurst burrs, star thistles, Pater-
son’s Curse, and other undesirables on railway
property. The plants are carefully guarded until
the seed is sufficiently ripe to look after itself.
Then they are uprooted with fearful violence and
haste, and hurled in the direction of the four
winds. I suppose a fellow-feeling makes us won-
drous kind —they were imported as well as John-
son. *
“ Vigilans,” steadily pursuing his pil-
grimage round Australia, writes from Tambo
(Q.):~
The Barcoo is generally considered the cream of pas-
toral Queensland. There’s no better wool-growing coun-
try than Portland Downs, Northampton, and Terrick.
This year is a phenomenal season ; fully 40in. of rain have
fallen all over the land, and the country presents a magni-
ficent picture, clothed with a luxuriant growth of the
finest Australian grasses. Mitchell grass is over 3ft.
high, and covers the flocks of sheep depasturing in the
paddocks. Nevertheless pastoralists in this year of
plenty do not provide for the dry time which is sure to
come. Hay is not cut, and will in a few months dry,
and its long growth be an incentive to bush tires, when
miles and miles will be burnt. The stock in the country
cannot consume the grass. Horses, cattle and juni-
bucks are rolling fat, and at the present time the
country would carry four sheep to the acre. No
wonder the pioneers rushed the land. But where
are the pioneers ? At the big stations like Northamp-
ton, Lansdowne, Minnie, and Tambo, a bachelor
manages the run with little assistance. Greendale,
Minnie, and other stations are practically worked with
aborigines, which, in the long run, is the dearest labor
procurable and the. most unreliable. Curious yarns are
told of opium beings supplied to the blacks, and one
Chow has been convicted twice during the past 12
months. Last time he paid up £l2, and is still going
strong. Closer settlement is being inaugurated around
Blackall. A railway has just been completed from
Jericho, and the Blackall ring imagines the rattler will
stay there. This notion is ridiculous. The best country
lies beyond, towards VVelford, and the country is open for
selection. Tambo is in a bad way. No hope of a rail-
waj r ; no hope of anything. The country round about
for miles is nearly all freehold, bought at 10s. per acre.
It represents Victorian capital mostly. Tambonians have
lost heart long ago. Little business ; non-paying pubs ;
bank removed ; Progress Committee gone bung ; School
of Arts squashed ; buildings decaying ; a general
monotony.
“ Harry Stockdale,” concerning wombats :
The kind I am writing about lived in the south-
east part of South Australia, on a low limestone
range. Their burrows were on the slope of the
hill, 30ft. or 40ft. above the swampy flats, and the
wombats browsed right down to the edges of the
swamp. I never noticed them drinking; but
wombats are easily alarmed, and scamper off to
their innermost recesses at the slightest noise.
The entrance to Womby’s hole was nearly always
under a slightly shelving rock. I have often
helped our black boys to dig the gentleman out;
but he could dig nearly as fast as we could, so
very often we invested a pick and shovel and
much perspiration and got no dividend. I cer-
tainly never saw in ,the animals’ homes any of
those strange things described by*‘Cict.” Nary
a kingfisher or native cat was there, nor gohannas
large or small, nor even “Cict’s ” ambling porcu-
pine. The three additional cats, the fox,
the four rabbits, the owl, and the two jew
lizards were alike conspicuous by their absence.
Nevertheless, I would not go so far as “ Janor”
and risk a new chimney-pot or plug or bell-topper
or top or “lum” hat that wombats never
undermine a tail race, for have we not on record
certain strange doings of the creature ? Did not
De Rougemont assert that he witnessed great
flights of wombats at Adolphus Island, in
Cambridge Gulf, N. W. Australia? I myself
rented that island once, but never observed any
flying wombats. Still they may exist. And as for
“Cict’s” wombats that kept a boarding house,
they may have been of the poorer class, reared on
some grassless selection, and compelled by poverty
to become acquainted with strange bedfellows.
“Bill Outback”: I am still alive, after
many assaults by the paid pals and peculiar pro-
teges of one whom I have sworn not to mention
again—"the bloke that weighs 17st. and has a
face of granite. I could chip a kinder face
out of the Tibooburra boulders. I want
to say that “Janor” is wrong in his re-
marks about goatflesh, which is esteemed
by genuine bushmen and despised only by
tinpot townies. Outback knows not the
goat-flesh pie—there is no such culinary
curiosity. Seasoning is never used with
goat-flesh—the bushman likes salt, pepper
and a few pickles possibly. The flesh of
the galah is not unpalatable, but it re-
quires a lot of cooking. Coolibah Charlie
(my cobber) maintains that it ought to be
stewed for two hours, boiled for two hours,
baked for two hours—and then given to the dog.
The reference to gohanna is a grotesque
“Janor” joke. What part of Paddy’s Market
does “Janor” live in ? I fancy I have seen him
in charge of a peanut stall.
“ Homo ” : In a northern district of Vic-
toria reside a couple of ladies who, it is said (I
have no ocular proof of the matter), carry their
father’s initials (J.S.) in big letters seared into
their persons. Their worthy sire, James Smith
(only it wasn’t Smith ; it was—well, it doesn’t
matter), was branding stock early one morning.
The two girls were still in bed when he expected
them to have his breakfast ready, and in his wrath
he rushed to thdir room, tore off the bedclothes, and
branded them in such quick succession that even
the shriek and the leap and the smell of burning
flesh from Gwendoline didn’t warn Ethelinda in
time to save her from a shriek and a leap. Two
weeping girls who still carried about with them
a smell of burnt flesh served up James Smith’s
breakfast that morning in a humble and contrite
spirit. There were subsequent rumors of a crimi-
nal prosecution, but the matter was hushed up.
The two branded chattels passed, in course of
time, into other hands, i.e., have since become
respectable married women; but whether their
present proprietors would know what brands to
advertise in the event of their straying deponent
sayeth not. The doughty Smith had such a repu-
tation for branding that it was alleged he even
sold people their own bullocks, on which he had
placed the magic “J.S.” during steerhood. In
fact, he was altogether a versatile rogue. I re-
member rushing with others in hot haste one night
to locate a tell-tale glare in the sky, and reached
the top of the hill, a mile or so distant, to have
the satisfaction of hearing someone say, “ Oh, it’s
all right, we can turn back. It’s only Smith’s
barn.” His periodical conversion of insurance
policy into cash was transpiring.
* • * *
“Back as far as Boulia”—that was the
bushman’s way of saying that something or other
was close out to The Edge. Yet the Mount
Elliott-Hampden railway, just authorised in
Queensland, will go to within about 130 miles of
Boulia ; and a great deal of the Georgina traffic
will then converge that way. This means the
opening of at least 20,000 square miles of sheep
country ; for many of the big stations will soon
begin to stock for wool. Further back, towards
Urandangie and Camooweal, there is still, how-
ever, another 50,000 square miles of sheep land
waiting for decent means of reaching markets.
A NEW JIM-JAM.
WOODCUTTER (awakening from a jamboree): “ Me occupation’s gone! There's no lints to
this ’ere Federation.”
“Agricola”: Re “Poddy” (B. 7/5/’08)
and his gentle Victorian cocky, who was too par-
ticular to eat diseased cow. What makes the tale
striking is that it was his own cow, and that he
would be at the loss of it. The cockies among
whom I have meandered of recent years rarely
allow a squeamish paunch to injure their pockets.
I have bullock bought for 10s. nominally
to serve as pig-feed. He was sore smitten with
disease, and age, and sorrow, and starvation. Yet
the pigs got their usual share —the offal and the
head. The rest was concealed about their persons
by the cocky and his kin. In other localities,
the sheep killed and partially eaten by dingoes
are taken home and consumed after the more ex-
posed portions have been cut off. Death, too,
claims many an old ewe an hour or so before it is
due, when the cocky has decided it is not possible
to save her. She may be “ bottley,” or the wool
may be falling off her in flakes. It may simply be
senile decay, or grass seeds ; but, anyway, mutton
she becomes. Rigs which become “ blown ” are a
considerable source of the winter supply of bacon.
I have very grave suspicions that the cocky
whom “Poddy” knew killed his beast all right,
and traded it off for sugar and flour among the
neighbors.
* * * *
“ Edyson ” : Callan and Hosie were driv-
ing from Quinton to Peewee when they came
across a tall, dark, attenuated man
leaning against a tree. “ Have we
taken the nearest track to Pee wee ?”
said Callan. “ There’s a woman in
there goin’ t’ hang herself,” said the
thin man. “What?” gasped the
two men in the trap. “T’ hang her-
self,” said the thin, brown person.
“ Well, why the Devil don’t you do
something?” cried Callan, jumping
out. “She’s took a rope, an’ she’s
went inter th’ stable,” the bony
bushman continued. “Would one
o’ yous gents kindly oblige by havin’
a look in ? ” Callan and Hosie re-
garded him suspiciously. Their
opinion was that the man was mad
or intended to steal the buggy.
“ Why don’t you go yourself ? ”
asked Hosie. “Well, th’ fact is,
mister, she’s my wife, an’, if she’s
on’y kidding, she’ll kop me, and I
don’t want to be kopped for various
reasons.” The two strangers ran for
the distant stable. The long, lean
man followed warily at a safe dis-
tance. “My God ! she is hanging,”
yelled Hosie. Then, as the lean man
came near, Hosie cried excitedly to
Callan, who was cutting down the
would-be suicide, “Quick, man,
quick; she’s still alive!” “Still
alive?” gasped the skinny bush-
man. “Hold hard, gents, give us a
start! ” and he was off at a gallop.
The wife lived, but the husband
vanished in the distance.
William Rodier, though he is out of the
rabbit country now, hasn’t given up his idea of
exterminating bunny by steadily killing off Mrs.
B. and liberating Mr. B. wherever and whenever
caught. Rodier’s theory in brief is that the rabbit
is so tremendously prolific on account of Mr. B.’s
polygamous habits; conversely, if there were not
enough lady-rabbits to go round, he reckons that
the race would soon extinguish itself. He backs
up the first part of the theory, at any rate, with
statistics which he has been diligently gather-
ing for 16 years. F. E. Allan, chief
vermin inspector of Victoria, also has some
striking figures on the same subject; in one
lot of 2996 rabbits only 60, or 2 per cent., were
males; and frequently the proportion has been as
low as 20 per cent. Mr. Rodier, who nowadays
lives in Melbourne, still hammers away at his
idea of thoroughly testing his theory on a N.S.W.
western holding. He reckons that for £lO,OOO
the thing could be done, and the State, or the
syndicate, or whoever else put up the money
would in the end have a rabbit-free holding in
return for the outlay.
That almost ineradicable pest, the water
hyacinth, has come to stay on the lower parts of
the Richmond River (N.S.W.). At Tintenbar,
twelve months ago, all the hyacinth within the
shire boundaries was destroyed at a cost of £2 10s.
Recently a report was called for as to the cost of
repeating the clearing, and the council was told
£2OOO would just about do it this time. Has any-
one got the address of a substance which kills
water hyacinth so dead that it never comes to life
again ? It would pay better than poisoning a rich
relative for his money.
* * * *
“ Nym ” : Certain scribes have been send-
ing The Bulletin weird yarns about how the
average horse selects his death-place when he
feels the Reaper close following on his tail. But
here, in the Channel country of Northern Vic-
toria, equines are being gathered in by hundreds
owing to cold and want of sustenance, and in 99
per cent, of cases Neddy has anticipated tfle end
by ambling to the nearest water supply and medi-
tating the reflection of his own visage therein.
Then he dies and falls in. The fact that he may
be polluting the only water supply within miles
doesn’t worry Neddy in the least. The horse
that is guaranteed to die on the road or at the
back door would be valued here. We seem to
have stocked up with the waterhole horse.
THEIR OCCUPATION GONE.
“Dunno whether my eyesight’s failing, hut I don't
notice many snakes around here now.”
“ O yer eyesight’s orlright, hut they or local
optioned the pub since you were here last,
an’ the snakes have left.”
Dear Bulletin, — Be frill-necked lizard,
we have two distinct species in North Queens-
land, the larger sometimes called the umbrella or
parachute lizard. This lizard will fling himself
off a tree, and, opening his hood or frill, make a
graceful descent. By the impetus of his spring e
can float a considerable distance from the tree
and reach the opposite bank of a creek. I think
he may be taken to account for the ‘‘Ay'"B
lizard ” mentioned by your correspondent “ Bui -
frog”; but anvhow he is as authentic as the yuee™
land Public Debt, and about as elusive as tne
Sinking Fund. —Yours, &c., Uaye-baal.
THE CROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Caged in a shop in George-street North,
All day he sends his curses forth.
He gazes sadly at the street;
They give him squashy things to eat
Instead of nice, round eyes of sheep—
It makes the S.P.C.A. weep !
Ah, cruel people, let him go !
He is not happy here, I know.
For he yearns all the day to fly
Back to the Bush where horses die.
And every caw is but a Damn
For all these wasted eyes of lamb.
He dreams sad dreams about the drought,
Where there were eyes to be pecked out.
Caw ! The imperishable joy
A bullock’s eyesight to destroy !
And that lost happiness, to find
A dying horse and leave it blind.
He dreams of youthful pleasures gone—
That swagsman dead he fed upon.
Life is not gay for him, I fear ;
There are no eyes to pick out here.
He watches, envious, the trams,
For they have larger eyes than lambs.
And that policeman, is he dead ?
He’d never on a copper fed.
Above the noise his cawings rise,
A caged thing asking for its eyes.
So from his prison let him go ;
He is not happy here, I know.
Yet all the day his curse goes forth
Caged in a shop in George-street North !
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


Tlie;
; more we master the forces of nature, the
ttwiedo our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
wiM* • dar l tfe, ' s '.'‘crease in proportion to the number of
the ca!*™™ wllic h he “puts through their tricks ’’ in
forces* 6 ' rormerly, we avoided the contact of these
admit-t-f 8 lnucd ~ls possible ; to-day, they have gained
°urmor nU6t 2 our household. And so, notwithstanding
"lore nff P ri, dentand peaceable manners, it happens to us
death Th t 0 our fathers to look pretty closely upon
hrid -e Sr ■ 6 ® outd British Insurance Company of 12
of accin eet ’ ® v hne.v, issues policies covering all classes
££ 2a i* a,ld seven teen (17) specified sicknesses for
special j r j a, " ,um upwards—special policies for your
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BKOMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemist refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l£d.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTUIHUTOKS.
Zarah : Have seen worse jokes and worse pictures. The
present resources of Commendation don’t go beyond
that... .D.Q. : Very crude. You need a course of study,
which might do you good, and again it might not.
Spence: Four pictures received signed “Spence.” No
name or address on back. Pictures hopeless. Also, as
there is another Spence who is a real artist, why not sign
yourself “Rembrandt”? He’s been dead a long time
and won’t mind J.M. : Deeply regret to hear that
it we don t accept your drawing (you “ never had a
lesson in your life ”) you will be compelled to murder
your wife and six children. But, alas, we have wives and
children t00....J.C. : Picture of broken-dow \ cart and
three girls on one horse of no use to us.. . .J.C. (quite a
diffeient J.C.): The tailor’s dummy joke is a tired joke
especially when it is an old tailor’s dummy joke.
Fifty years ago this May of 1908 the
Victorian Government Gazette notified that a
patent had been issued to Godfrey W. Praagst,
of Kyneton, for the manufacture of oil from
eucalyptus leaves, “a material not hitherto so
used. But Praagst’s claim has been disputed ;
it is even alleged that there was a bottle of
?qkk ' on sm eh at the Paris Exhibition in
1855. Ihe first the Pharmacopoeia knew of the
new liquid was apparently in 1857.
" Fx. & R.” Watches Again,
“ A friend of mine very kindly presented me with
one of your Gun-Metal Watches on the eve of my departure
from Sydney in 1899 —1 used it constantly up to the end of
1906— during-which period it experienced much more rough
usage than chat which falls to the lot of the average watch
“ Both in Queensland and South Africa it had innumerable
falls, but I am pleased to saj> that the more I knocked it
about the better time it kept.
“ During these years the only expense I was under
amounted to the large sum of 2/6 —this being caused by th®
screw of the back case becoming slightly rusted owing to
perspiration. "
“ At the end of seven years it required cleaning, and on the
watchmaker remarking * that the obstruction was caused by
sand,’l then remembered, that a year previously it fell out
of my pocket whilst dressing after a swim, and was com-
pletely buried in the sand at the Back Beach, Durban.
I may add that, when in Scotland last year, I dropped it
into a tub of water, and on my fishing it out and giving it a
casual drying, it was none the worse for its immersion.”
“ Fx - & R ” Watches are the Cheapest and Best Watches
the World Produces. Write for Price Lists.
In Gent.’s
Open - face
Oxidised
Steel Case,
33J-
In Silver
Open-face
Case, 45/-
\ 1
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
FAIRFAX (EL ROBERTS,
23 HUNTER SYDNEY.
Plain Figures Cash.
“ Jimmie Pannikin During my wander-
ings on the Warrego, I saw a poor wretch, wearing
only shirt and boots, racing round and round the
pub. A shearer stopped him and said “Say
whot ya doin’, matey ? Trainin’ f’r the Grarssfed
Andicap at Yantabulla? ” ‘‘No,’’ gasped the
runner, I m chasin Time. I lorst two hours,
and 20 minutes larst week, and I’m tryun’ to ketch
up th’ lorst time. I’ve made up nearly 40
minutes these larst two days. I’d ’ave made up
all me lorst time only for th’ fools wot stops me t’
ask silly questions.” The shearer said, “Oh'
off ya go then, Mr. Blanky Perpetual Motion.'
Tin sorry I stopped ya ! ” I left two hours later ;
the pursuer of Time was still running round and
round in a sort of globular circle.
* * *
“J.H.P.”: While on a recent visit to
the rabbit-proof fence north of Bremer Bay
(Westralia) I was struck by the number of dead
emus on the S.A. side. A boundary rider in-
formed me that the birds, coming in a flock
against the fence, run aimlessly up and down
until they drop from exhaustion, and this theory
is borne out by the well-defined tracks worn along-
side the fence. Some of the larger birds, of course,
succeed in jumping the obstacle, or in breaking it
down—in fact, emu-breakage is the principal
reason why boundary riders are required. The
finest shooting in Westralia is to be had on the
western side of the fence—plain turkey and
kangaroo, the former weighing up to 201 b. Also,
and by the way, rabbits are very plentiful round
Burtville and around Boulder itself, and the
rabbit-proof fence which is maintained to keep
out the rabbit that is already in is a joke.
PATIENGE
REWARDED.
HIS MATE : Ullo , Bill,
wot ’ave yer got this time? ”
HILL (dejectedly): “A bloomin ledtherjacket! ”
Black brother has been greatly wronged,
f accuse d him of, being a poor, casual
e aw who took nothing seriously, and didn’t even
Push his plea for bacca or tickapenny with any vim
ur v Yet wJieiy “Joe” and “Gentleman
urn, 0 f Oodnadatta or thereabouts, had a
* urence of opinion one day last month con-
S ln^ t ' le Helen of those..parts, and decided to
tie the slight misunderstanding with waddies
>r anything else that came handy, not one corpse,
nU * °i scene °f the argument. The fine
P ints of the French duello evidently haven’t got
ar as Oodnadatta—even though Oodnadatta
es get a train once a fortnight, and is going to
ve a race-meeting this month.
THE REFORMER.
BUSH POLITICIAN : “You arsks me why I’m agin marriage , an I’ll tell yer, feller men. I’m
agin marriage cause o' the evil an' the misery what it leads to. If it wasn't fer marriage
there wouldn't be any wife-heatin’, let me tell you!”
Lhe Tully River Falls (N.Q.), though not
equal in size to the great cascade of the Barron,
are pretty close up. The co. which tried to lease
the latter from Premier Kldston for motive-power
purposes is said to be now after the Tully, as a place
where it could generate the electricity' for use in
manufacturing calcium carbide. These falls are
miles from Herberton. Only a comparatively
few people have seen them, because they are
isolated in a country where the primeval jungle
still awaits the pioneer. To get to the bottom of
them requires the exercise of some bushcraft and
considerable energy. Then on the Herbert River,
wo j chains the whole of the country from the
Wild River, there are many magnificent falls,
almost unknown as yet except to a few intrepid
timber-getters and prospectors, but bound to
attract many a tourist by-and-bye.
* * * *
“ Minko ” : As a body, we Bananalanders
pride ourselves on being a law-abiding people, but
the stranger within our gates, whom the mis-
sionaries and the Brindle crowd term “ our law-
abiding and harmless brown brother,” defies
nonchalantly every dictate of the statute book.
Through some technical error in the wording of
the Act relating to teams and other vehicles of
transport, Howlan Singh may halt his camel team
where he darn well pleases on Out Back roads,
while any other person is compelled to camp not
less than three chains from the track. Nine horses
out of ten are seized with a panic of fear when
they are brought near the Smell of the Desert,
and when an Afghan horde decides on the vicinity
of a boundary gate as a rest place, either the
horse-driver must wait the turbanned lawbreaker’s
pleasure or risk a smash. Every Afghan on the
Western plains, from Richmond to Oloncurry, is
armed with a rifle, and. remonstrance generally
elicits a surly “ no sabe” and a significant motion
of the weapon. These people pay no license fees
or wheel taxes, and the shire councils are power-
less to deal with them. The hole in the law
through which our undesirable relative and his
fragrant animal are daily passing badly wants
soldering up.
* » * *
“Nomadic”: It was a beautiful scheme
for the amassing of wealth, and arose through
Tompkins having heard of the money that was to
be made by grog-selling on gold rushes. Of
course, Horace was not taken into consideration
in the first prospectus of this vast gold-making
concern, but on Tompkins’ arrival at Paddy’s
Hole with 40 gallons of rum, it was found that the
liquor must be hawked around the respective
camps some miles away if any business was to be
done, arid Horace’s turnout was the only one
available for such a purpose. Therefore he was in
a position to demand his own terms. This matter
was settled, and a partnership of a kind was estab-
lished. It was decided to break down the rum
and bottle it, on the understanding that every
thirteenth bottle should be the sole and exclusive
property of Horace, so that he might treat and
allay the suspicions of any friends who happened
to call during the bottling process. These were
many, and at times Horace had to borrow an
extra bottle’ to allay their suspicions. He also
drank a lot to allay his own suspicions. The buggy
being at last loaded with its valuable freight, the
firm proceeded to business at the adjoining camp
known as The Rockhole, and here Horace met
several friends who, according to his lights,
were “good marks.” Tompkins supplied them
with two gallons on his . partner’s assurance
that they’d “ pay ’im out er ther next crushin’.”
At The Range it was fourid that money was again
very tight (even tighter than Horace), but on
Horace’s recommendation (Tompkins trusted im-
plicitly in' Horace) several lots were placed for
future settlement. On leaving Claraville for
Winnecke, the load was reduced to half its original
size. That night they camped on the Hale
plains. In the morning it was found that the
horses had disappeared, likewise the rum, and all
Tompkins’ spare cash. By herculean efforts
Horace brought Tompkins back, alive but famished
and penniless, to Paddy’s Hole. Tompkins re-
turned to civilisation and was not heard of again
in the illicit liquor trade, and he. harbors dark
suspicions of Horace.
THE OLD BUSHGODS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We’ve passed the cultured lands, and we’ve passed the
cross-roads inns; p une
And beg'ins t ; 6 high -‘'° ad ends ’ and the white bush track
We 'of men— 6 C,i " kinff P avem ents, and the hustling hives
For againT*’ We ’ fe COminfr back to the old bush-gods
.enoUgh ° f as P halt - and the clamor of the
We ’for d iS a s n we d ets a ;° Ufc the 00u,,tr - v tiH we’ve hungered
We ’ V the o ?oar- n fa ” ed ** d Wearv with the bustle and
And it’s back we’re coming back to the old bush-gods
once more ! feous
D ° ? agl) ' eS C ° n ’ e h ° me 10 the ra -- e,i messmate
Do the she-oaks moan at night like the surges of the sea?
Does the cloud-ring cling and cleave round the distant
purple peak?
Do the wattles bloom in spring in the bends along the
creek: i
We’ve thought of you at night to the rattling of the cars
Looking upward, through the haze, to the calm and con!
stant stars,
We’ve heard the cow-bells clanking past many a city den ;
And it s back we had to come to the old bush-gods again 1
When the chips fly from the axe, does the green wood
smell the same?
Does the back-login the fireplace go roaring into flame ?
Are the lhll tS St '" fl ° w er-spangled? In the grey gums on
D ° still P rffe ° US lor ‘ eS ChaUer from the u PP er branches
We are tired of towns and travels, and the reek of motor-
cars ;
We are longing for bush-voices, purer air and clearer
stars ;
We’ve left the mesh of pavements and the hustling hives
of men, — ”
For it’s back we had to come to the old bush-gods again 1
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLKS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken, re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
A.S.P. : “ Cornsack ” would have got in if you
hadn’t tried to make “chance” rhyme with “pants.”
“ Chance ” shall never attempt to rhyme with “pants”
in this paper.... Deeb.v : That Queanbeyan-Canberrayarn
is a stupid lie. Neither Tim Bulletin nor anybody con-
nected with The Bulletin owns or is interested in a foot
of land at either Dalgety or Twofold Bay, or anywhere
thereabouts .. H.L.V. : “Carriage” idea good; treat-
ment weak— A.J.B. : Alleged “righthander” to hand,
but it doesn t land the Chow on the point, or any
where near it. It hovers uncertainly round him for
500 words, and then omits to even tap him Old Sub-
scriber : Be comforted ; the feud between the up-country
storekeeper and the visiting rep. of the metropolitan
business house is as old and as inevitable as a back-blocks’
sectarian row... .Stewart G. : “ Denouement ” not worth
the space X.Y.Z. : Rather below your usual standard.
....G.W.G.M.: How Kenny Stole the Horse” is horrible.
In all its 25 verses there is no single line which scores....
K. I . Thomson : Of course we recognise that you were
not arguing for Separation from the Empire as a matter
of present-day politics. But you seem to be under the'
delusion that this paper is crying out daily for Separa-
tion, which, for a country with one old rifle to seven
cadets, would be a fool of an idea. At present, Australia i
couldn t defend itself if it separated, nor could it
help much to defend the Empire if it didn’t separate
L. : An original idea, not very skilfully put'into'
verse ... .T.E.S. : A curious combination of strength and
weakness.... Pewter Plate: A bit clumsy, and the dialect
isn t consistent ...E.H.C. : It required a firmer literary
grip to make anything of it.... Tom VV. : Yes; it’s a
r is)iy Yarn ” in more senses than one ; and it cost us
4d. postage, because you labor under the common Vic-
torian delusion that your State’s penny stamp is good
against the Universe... .John 0.: Oh,'yes; vou have
originality—but it is confined to vour spelling”!
Yelsna : Verses not up... .Geordie : Haven’t the faintest
recollection whether the answer referred to “Scotty”
° r "Pi'’ „ Didn ’ t remember that there was any
Scotty. ... M.J.S. : Have no use for “ weekly letters
(one column each) summarising, and perhaps commenting
on, the various chief points of local interest,” from any
place on earth... F. W. H. : There is -no State-aided
exploration work being undertaken just now, if that is
what you mean. Private exploring parties may be at
work for all we know... H.O. : One stave v of your
Empire Song” reached the collective office heart:—
It may seem strange, but I always thin'k
That I love the Empire—when in drink f
... .Ciris : That portion of the human form is, or should
be, immune from ribald treatment.. ..D.F.O. : There is
an incomparably better prospect ahead of an Australian
fishing* industry than there \vas k \vhen the Iluka experi-
ment was tried. Since those days (1) tile Australian
Government has encouraged fish canning by a generous
bouHky i (2) the long-dead, nameless tinned horror from
Chicago (U.S.A.) has sown ptomaine poisoning and
distrust of imported canned goods about the land ; and
above all (3) a new generation has arisen in Australia
that reckons G. Reid is an old fraud, and holds with
tai ring and feathering habitual Stinking Fishermen, and is
for Australian prbducts all the time ... .P.N. : The most
admirable feature of your poem to women is the
series of great, simple truths it states. A sample :
What is a woman ? A worry to men,
Who for her will break all of Moses’ “ Ten ”
A coquette and flirt, oft faithless and cruel,
Yet man will become —pour la femme —a damned fool.
... F.T.8.: Neither of them had the slightest chance. .
Kamilaroi: Not nearly good enough E.A.R. :No
literary equipment for such a work E.M. : Some
power in it, but the subject is too risky, and you don’t
make it clear whether the husband wouldn’t, or simply
couldn’t.. ..John E.: Obviously from life, but too bald
and crude in style.. ..Crux : Lamentably bad Bob D.:
Runs off the track in places, and finally falls over a preci-
pice of bathos... .C.C.W.: You’ve got your characters
hopelessly mixed. In much of the dialogue it is im-
possible to tell who is saying what. .. .Dinah : A creditable
attempt, but the subject flattens you out... .H.B. (Q.) :
“ About five months ago ” is too vague... .F.J.C.: Have
no personal knowledge of the remedy you inquire about,
but have seen bad cases reduced to decent —in fact,
elegant— proportions by swimming twice daily in fresh
water. Try it....G.W.8. (Tasmania): Yes, there are
several tobaccos made in Australia from locally-grown
leaf. A few of the names : Bright Favorite, Sunlight,
Red Cross, Centennial, No Tick (horrible name), Bos’n,
Army and Navy, Home Rule, and Talisman. Another pure
Australian leaf tobacco on the Tasmanian market is Star-
light. Some of the others are not sold in the Isle of Apples,
and would have to be procured from Victoria....
E.G.: It is a good character-study, but your literary
grasp isn’t strong enough.... F.R.B. : Has some power,
but not sufficient skill... .J.B. (Q.): Yes ; they have pro-
mise, but they’re not yet up to our requirements. ..
Bog-growl: The play upon words is good, outside that
there’s nothing ... .Chris H. : The incidental verse is
the best of a rather sloppy production A.J.D. :
Moderately meritorious Herbert W. : Flowery, but
feeble and unconvincing. ~ .Ivy P.: Pretty and musi-
cal, but has no freshness of idea. Tee Cee: Good
child-study, but rather out of our line.... Waitati:
Too roughly put together.. ..A.C.E.: Rejected again, for
the reasons marked on it... .Skeet M. : Very crude and
sloppy... .E.B.A. : Well enough rhymed, but the subject
has been overdone... .Scribero: Nonsensical in places,
and not strong anywhere... Susie : The plot is needlessly
complicated, and you don’t get any life into your charac-
ters... .A. : Entered for the Vile Verse Stakes....
R. McW. : \our ungainly style would kill a more promis-
ing subject Hubert C.: It was answered B. 7/5/’08....
D. Mac: Not uninteresting, but much too long and un-
wieldy. .. .T.T. : The second verse ruins it... .Pom Pom :
No room for your or anyone else’s earliest recollection
of “Jimmie Pannikin.” A.B.C. (Wellington, M.L.) :
“ Dear Old Glory” and the “ Union Jack ”
(Two flags that Fly as One)
does not appeal to this paper a little bit Salt-Horse:
A half-breed took a ring from his finger, showed you the
inscription on it, and said : “It is an heirloom. One of
my ancestors wore it at the battle of Agincourt.” It is, as
you note, a tragedy, but the essence of it is not in the
fact that the nig’s father is “an Englishman, a scion of
one of our oldest English county families.” The white
parent of half-castes is equally blamable if his
progenitors fought with the push instead of
with the French, and never saw an English
county.... Gil: “ Australianese ” just below par....
\ ox : Fair descriptive power, but a great lack of crispness
and vigor..... .Martial : Respectable verse, without a
spark of inspiration... .Ruby B. : Rather gracefully con-
ceived, but too slight; and the finish is flat.... W.P.B. :
Would have been a good story in more artistic hands,
i our style is grievously tame and wooden... .0. W. Mac. :
Painfully long-winded and digressive... .Vindex : You
haven’t improved it much. Your literary manner
is too pretentious and self-conscious.... Brummy :
Hadn’t a chance... .F.P.W. : You say nothing in
particular in a highly elaborate manner... .F.O.H. :
Governors (Commonwealth and State) are ap-
pointed by whatever British Administration happens
to be in power. Their salaries, which are paid them by
this country, are sufficient for their needs. Thus it is the
boast of Harry Rawson (N.S. W.) that he lives well within
his screw ; and he keeps popular oil that expenditure.
Only a raving lunatic would credit that Governors come
here “ under compulsion, something like convicts.” The
Governor-billet is mostly a reward for political services
rendered. Dudley unquestionably got his Governor-
Generalship by way of recompense for verting from
Toryism td Liberalism ... .The Wasp : You have a sense
of the pathos of life if nothing else. Herewith a bud
from your tree of poesy :
V- -'.'Chas, S.G.: You are the 14th person to write, during
the last few days complaining of neighbors who own
gramophones. Let the utter noisomeness of the gramo-
phone-owning neighbor be henceforth taken as read
New Subscriber : “ Only a Nigger ” is not in Thk Bullk-
tin Reciter. Don’t know where it is, and never heard
of it
FOUND DEAD IN THE STREET.
An unfortunate woman was
Found dead in the street
By an officer of Justice
While on hi 3 early morn beat.
Conveyed to the Morgue
For a doleful inquest.
From the wages of sin
Her soul was at rest.
After the coroner’s verdict
The remains of the Dead
Were coffined for a pauper’s
Narrow burial bed.


-^:x"
\ e. ° VV
\>’ V*
A.''’' A** o <^
<° 0
V V '»*
V N>»'\o
*'° V
A**
«\*° :
«S> . ( W '.<*•■ y.\tP
V'J^V" e ,e' ve
. V^ v 0" e , e
V ' w "»' v *o*\ V<°*
a"-"' V"' .11**“'
c >'° Ae**® , *>“
ce oo"' tl’ e
v"~ . •*"' v>»'
„«* 6 L<* „ «**
. * 6
..r>" *"■
«* Hf *•■■
■t' ,f
"•
,
>yy<*&
>v s(#v^
C* o' * „ *'V>>*
''' V
.<«- .A c
<^y*
No effort is to be spared by the Victorian authorities to meet the wishes of
the American Admiral, and make the welcome to the fleet a sober ceremony.
TAPPING THE CASK.
Young Vic.: ** My oath, I can see this is going to be a one-sided spree.*'
Mr. Bent hoped that before long every boy and every girl—"for he saw
that some of the ladies were rifleworaen—would fit themselves, in order that
they might be able to defend the country from possible invasion. (Hear, hear.)
—Aof..
Tommy: •• Here is something to play with, my dear. I can’t trust yoM
with the club. You might use it on me,”
VICTORIAN CIRCUMSTANCES.


AN ABORKJINALITY
t w ft^ a,de ’. TbUrBdaV - A te,e S ram Coduadatta states the
here Th!* flght > esterda >' afternoon ab.ut seven miles from
bothci^r 1 was over a ,übra - and reBuued *-<««»
There would seem to be a good deal of human
nature about a female blackfellow
King Edward shouted the tickets for the big show in London to
President Fallieres. They were much Impressed, says the cable,
with the Australian exhibit. President Fallieres’ verdict was “Tres
naagnlflque. ” The King was greatly pleased, and said in French that
It was truly bosker-
An elephant charged
full speed at an engine
of a train In Siam recently.
The elephant was killed on
the spot and the engine de-
railed and badly damaged. The
elephant’s tusks were snapped
off. — Cable.
A later cable, privately received by
“ Hop,” discloses the fact that the
elephant’s patent brake refused to act.
Coroner’s verdict accordingly.
Atlanta (Georgia, U.S.)
women have petitioned
the local tramcar com-
pany to order conductors
not to assist them on and
off the trarncars. They
say that the practice is
ruinous to blouses.
London, Sunday Evening.—Senator
Robert M. La Follette (Wisconsin),
obstructing the Currency Bill in the
United States Senate, made a speech
lasting hours, which 16 a record
for the Senate.
tram conces-
sions TO ALDER-
MEN.
Suburban aldermen
have been endeav-
, , oring to secure con-
cesslons on the trams in the shape of season tickets,!
but the Commissioners have not been able to view
the request in a favorable light. a concentrated
move has now been set on foot.
And let us hope that the aldermen will be set “on
foot, too—and kept there until they ante up the
coppers like ordinary folks.
J. C. Neild, poet, statesman, soldier,
orator : “ here, take this ; you’ve
beaten me by 9'/ 2 hours.”
the honor op parliament.
The Initial action for the appoint-
ment ol the Committee on Privilege
was taken In the House of Repre-
serttatives on April 1 (All Fools’ Day 1), when four members were appointed,
and a message was forwarded to the Senate
But our artist deems it unsafe to finish the above sketch, lest it bring upon
him “something humorous, with boiling oil in It,” for breach of Parliamentary
privilege.
ALL OVER THE SHOP.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming: Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine,
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321.
F, O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
A Tsar of old, who caught a cold,
Sent for his Empress, who was told
It was her fault 1 Then he lay hold
Of his poor wife, and slew her 1
The tyrant’s crime was quite absurd !
She’d done her best, upon my word !
But in those days folks had not heard
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure I*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A State Frights Premier is a bad passenger
to carry on a sea-trip. Failing Federal grievances
Joke Carruthers, who recently went to England
on the Asturias, is said to have whiled
away most of his idle hours complaining
about the food, the stewards, the drinks, the
accommodation, and most other shipboard
matters. It was conceded enthusiastically by the
Asturias crew that, regarded as a complaint-
monger and deputation-to-protest header, N.S.W.
ex-Premier was the biggest circumstance on the
seas.
ENFANT TERRIBLE.
Son of N.S.W. STATE RIGHTER : “If they've no
right to interfere with us, I cant understand
what it has to :lo with us where they put their
capital ? ”
HIS FATHER: “ But you're so very young, my
son.”
Alexander Jobson, the young Australian
accountant who went to England some months
ago to bring back the “ Page millions,” for a
Sydney co. that was financing an elderly claimant
named Morris, has returned ; but his pockets
don’t bulge more than usual. After searching
through a vast number of more or less interesting
old churches till he got musty records and registers
and pedigrees on the brain, Jobson and the
London solicitors submitted tlfk matter gloomily
to Chancery counsel, and Chancery counsel told
him, in effect, to go and buy a ticket back to Aus-
tralia. The one consolation the Sydney co. will
have is that Jobson is a careful young man at
making a bargain, wherefore there will probably
be a liquidation dividend of about 10s. in the £.
The grand old woman of Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) passed over one day last week, aged 94.
Mrs. MoOlintock, theG.O. W. alluded to, arrived in
N. S. Wales in 1837, and was the head of the
McClintock clan in the district. She leaves 83
grandchildren, 63 great-grandchildren, and four
great-great-grandchildren.
Frederick Henlen, of the Supreme Court
Hotel (Sydney), who won a certain amount of
fame the other day by dispensing champagne to a
bevy of Hospital Saturday ladies, has made
another bold bid for public notice by transferring
his hostelry to a person with the amazing name of
Tubal Cain Bragg.
Edwin Haviland, who died recently at
Petersham (Sydney), was well known to the older
generation of Australian botanists. He was a
Fellow of the London Linnean Society, and for
some years a member of the council of the N.S.W.
Lin. Soc. Before his retirement, 20 years ago, he
was a frequent contributor of useful items to the
discussions of the learned folk who consider the
untoiling and unspinning lily.
The example of journalist Fred Johns,
compiler of Johns’ “Notable Australians,” has
sent another member of the S.A. Register staff
on a weary hunt. Rodney Cockburn is now track-
ing the names of the towns in S.A. back to their
lairs, and the result will be offered to the public
at something per volume. Adelaide’s aboriginal
name has been definitely fixed as Tarndanya, and
the region of the chief seaport was Yerta Bolding-
ga, in the days when Black Brother bashed Black
Sister without the interference of the law.
It is proposed, in a lagging and out-of-date
sort of way, that a memorial to explorer Hamilton
Hume should be raised at Yass (N.S.W.), where
he lived and died and is buried. Hume obtained,
in 1827, a grant of 1200 acres near Yass as a re-
ward for his discovery of a shorter and easier road
to Bathurst than that constructed by William
Cox, in 1814, and the unearned increment on that
1200 acres is tall enough now to make a very good
monument. William Cox got a grant of 2000
acres (the Hereford property at Kelso) for his
road, and he also has his monument of unearned
increment.
C. V. Potter, the man who for three years
was the sharpest thorn the great Broken Hill
Prop. Co. was ever annoyed with, died in Mel-
bourne last week. Potter, a brewery chemist,
had patented an acid process for extracting the
zinc from the Broken Hill ores; and the B. H.
Prop, came along with a process which Potter
said was a steal. The big co. laughed—it had
been used to getting its own way, and there
didn’t seem to be much of a fight in the rheumatic
Potter. But the co. didn’t know that behind
Potter stood David Syme and Felton, of Felton-
Grimvvade. For over two years the fight lasted ;
thousands on thousands were spent in demonstra-
tions and experiments alone to satisfy the courts ;
and a few months ago the big co. agreed to a com-
promise. Felton, By me, and Potter are now all
dead. But the acid process goes on.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant :
Mr. H. W. Langlands, who died at Malvern (Vic.) last
week, was a very old Victorian, and came of a family that
helped to pioneer the iron industry in Melbourne, in the
’fifties there were two iron foundries on the Yarra—one,
Thomas Fulton’s, opposite Cole’s Wharf; the other, that
of Langlands and Son, between King and Spencer streets.
The proprietor, Henry Langlands, a small but energetic
man, represented Melbourne in the mixed Parliament of
1853, which held its meetings in St. Patrick’s Hall, on the
top of the hill in Bourke-street West. He was elected in
June, and was unseated in October following, when a
report of the E ections and Qualifications Committee gave
the seat to F. J. Sargood. Henry Langlands, however,
secured a seat for Melbourne in the first Parliament under
Responsible Government. A son, Tom Langlands, was
about Sydney for many years.
Again the Oldest Inhabitant speaks :
A lady who saw most of N.S.W.’s history died on
Monday, 25th May, at her home, Grafton-street, Woollahra
(Sydney). Mrs. Frances M. A. Davidson was the eldest
daughter of A. B. Spark, a merchant prince of the
’thirties. He had his counting-house in Lower George-
street, and his private residence at Tempe, Cook’s River,
a property now in the possession of an R.C. sisterhood. In
the late ’thirties he built Tusculum, in Macleay-street,
which was for a time occupied by Bishop Broughton, and
later on became the property of William Long, wine and
spirit merchant, father of Mr. “ Bill” Long, M.L.C., and
father-in-law of James Martin and W. B. Dailey. He
was a shipowner, hon. sec, to the Agricultural Society,
auditor of the Marine Assurance Company, and deputy-
chairman of the old Bank of Australia, which had a very
wobbly career, and brought many wealthy men down.
Mr. Alexander Brodie Spark may be regarded as a sort of
wetnurse to the Australian Gasiight Company, as it was
through him the first money (£1000) was transmitted to
England to purchase machinery. He was in business in
King-street west, next Yeend’s Hotel, as late as the mid
’fifties.
If Dr. J. D. Lang can see a copy of his
ancient enemy (the S. M. Herald) in the Big
Camp where he is, he will not be able to congratu-
late the said enemy on its present-day accuracy. In
a report, on Thursday morning, of Dr. Dill Macky’s
Majority Celebration it was stated that over the
door of the Scots Church “is graven the date
‘1844,’ giving it 60 odd years of work and wor-
ship.” Likewise, Dr. Dill Mackv is set down as
a Scot. As a matter of fact, he is Irish, and from
“ the Black North ”at that. The Scots Church in
Jamieson-street was erected in 1824, and has 84
years of work and worship to its credit. Dr.
Lang’s younger brother—the one whose best girl
the doctor annexed and made his own wife —lies
buried under the pulpit in the Jamieson-street
Church.
“P.H.E.” remembers a thing or two
about C. C. Kingston:—
I was secretary of a political organisation during his
State Premiership, and approached him for advice on a
proposed plan of action. But I hesitated about accepting
his suggestion, which involved, I thought, too bold a
move. He frowned in annoyance. “ ’Pon my word,” he
rapped out, “ I’d stump the country on it if I were you.”
We followed "his advice, and got the S. Australian Early
Closing Act of 1901.
He once wrote my association a letter which I had to
take to his secretary io be deciphered. But one sentence
was quite plain : “ If j ou would hope for success, work,
work, WORK.”
He never forgot his political friends. When he w'as
Federal Minister for Customs he paid a hurried three
days’ visit to Adelaide in the very midst of the great tariff
struggle. We were holding a smoke social on the last
evening of his stay. Naturally, we thought the great
man’s time too valuable, and did not even send him an
invitation. I met him in the street, told him of the
concert, and he promptly said he’d like to be there. He
came, stayed, drank only lemonade (for he was practically
a teetotaler), and gave a rousing speech, showing a grip
of the current affairs of the association which was
remarkable.
Some time later I saw him at the Hotel Australia,
Sydney, on his way to the Northern Territory, just after
his first break-down. His recollection of our association
was characteristically generous. “We had some big
fights in the old Adelaide days, didn’t we ? ” The bracketing
of myself with one who had played so magnificent a part
in the battle of Democracy was so like him.
What a contrast w'as his one-time colleague and now
Speaker of the House of Reps., Frederick Holder! Thin
and gaunt, yet withal so suave and courteous, one entered
Holder’s presence for the first time with trepidation, to
be immediately set at ease by his charming personality.
No time was wasted with him, however. The business
stated, and the answer given, one was ushered out with
such affability that the object of the visit would be almost
forgotten. But with Kingston there was time for a joke,
a word or two of advice, and an invitation to come again.
THE SAME OLD SCARECROW.
It is admitted that our farmers’ sons are birds of passage. Why is this?—Age.
The reason of the Winging away appears very obvious.
Passed out, W. T. Coldham, a prominent
Melbourne barrister, and Son of a Western Vic-
torian pioneer. He died at St. Kilda on Friday
morning, aged 46 years. Coldham was admitted
to the Bar in December, 1884, and quickly secured
a good practice. Judge Moule, commenting on
his death, said that he was oqe of the most bril-
liant men that had ever adorned the Victorian
Courts, which is saying a lot when we remember
the Vic. Bar of the ’fifties and ’sixties—the
Irelands, the Aspinalls, tlieFellowes, the Michies,
the Dawsons, and the Sewells.
The unhappy Johnson falls and falls in the
public estimation. Thus Sydney Evening News
(his warmest press barracker a few months back)
on its fractured idol’s exclusion of the press from
a Chamber of Commerce deputation (29/5/’08): —
This is not an isolated case, but is part of that gentle-
man’s policy, and, in pursuing it, he differs from such
persons as the Prime Minister of England, the Premier of
the Commonwealth, and the Premier of this State. Al-
most everybody on earth can be interviewed, the two ex-
ceptions being the Czar and Mr. Johnson. This objection
to the searchlight of the Press being thrown on the
management of the State’s greatest business enterprise
may be a kind of inscrutable wisdom, but, if so, it was
not the policy of the late Mr. Eddy. It may be that Mr.
Johnson is a wiser, stronger, and abler man than Mr.
Eddy. We greatly doubt it; everybody, perhaps not ex-
cepting Mr. Johnson himself, greatly doubts it; yet Mr.
Eddy could afford to stand any amount of publicity.
Mr. Johnson prefers to give reports to the Press only
after they have heen carefully censored by him and his
officers. In this he again resembles the Czar.
James M‘Kinley, long-time editor of Mel-
bourne Paunch, and brother of Aleck, the pro-
prietor thereof, died suddenly in his office one day
last week. He was reading Paunch proofs when
he succumbed. “Jimmie” M’Kinlev was associ-
ated with Melbourne journalism for 40 years with-
out making any very large dent in the surface
thereof, but he was a sticking, .dour, conscientious
sort of man within his limits, and was successful
in the kind of journalism that is a good deal like
the grocery business, and consists in giving people
“ what they want,” so long as they want nothing
better than details of the last wedding and photos
of the latest football match. For years James
M’Kinley managed Melbourne Telegraph and
The World. He was the first of the M'Kinleys
to own Melbourne Paunch, but it passed into the
hands of brother Alexander. Both men were
originally compositors. They came of a race of
North of Ireland Scotchmen, and were born at
Talbot (Vic.).
Concerning a Person of Position
The Macarthur-Onslow who has raised some indignation
and more tolerant amusement by arguing to the
“ Women’s Patriotic Club,” of Sydney, that a high social
position is necessary for officers is, of course, he of
Camden Park. For years and years he strove frenziedly
to insert himself into the public eye. Various constitu-
encies rejected him. It was laid to his discredit that he
didn’t know his own political mind. When little Kelly
first came out for Wentworth, Onslow tri ed for the Foreign -
trade nomination. However, as he had previously ex-
pressed Nationalist principles, the petty 7 shopkeepers and
their employees who dwell in Wentworth, and comprise
most of its voting strength, would have none of him. His
return for Waverley last year over banana-expert Jessep
was a huge surprise. Jessep’s personal unpopularity' and
the support Onslow got from his friends of “ high social
position ” did the trick. The expressed views of the two
candidates were much the same. Both were Deformers,
both mourned passionately’ regarding State Frights, each
affirmed in fine large fashion that if there were much
more of it he would Secbsh. But State Frightism, Secesh,
anti-Sosh and so on reckoned Jessep was the more
earnest State Frighter, Secesher, etc., of the two, so
Wade and his myrmidons upheld the fruit-vendor with
the awful voice from many platforms. Willy' Kelly, the
Federal member for the seat, was placed in a dilemma.
The Yellow Pup was for Jessep to a hound, and
Kelly depends for his chief support on that animal,
male and female. But all of Kelly’s “ social ” supporters
were for Onslow. Kelly yes-noed by writing a letter to
his constituents “ recommending Mr. Jessep,” and fore-
bore to speak on behalf of either candidate. It was a
foolish move. Yellow-pupism, already none too pleased
with its champion’s affection for the footlights and those
who gyrate on the illuminated side of them, growled and
talked of “Romish influences” which prevented Kelly
“ coming out like a staunch Protestant, and defending
the Bible ” (Jessep presumably') in person : and the people
of “ high social position ” were equally angered at
Willy’s desertion of their man, and are still in
that state. Onslow is understood to be work-
ing like mad for the Wentworth nomination at
next Federal elections, and his supporters prophesy
confidently that he will hurl Kelly (who has gone out of
favor there) into the outer murk. This accounts for the
Camden Park person’s excessive and lamentable activity
of late. His friends stand aghast at his maladroit per-
formances, but are powerless to stop them. It is recog-
nised on all hands that unless he is curbed, gagged, or
otherwise squelched, the present member’s chance of re-
nomination on the anti-Australian ticket, as against
Onslow, is quite good, despite the contemptuous fashion
in which Kelly has neglected the constituency.
The St. Kilda (Vic.) honorariums gave
another exhibition of folly lately in dealing with
the case of an elderly man convicted of gross in-
deceny. He had three previous Melbourne con-
victions, all for the same class of offence—in 1895,
six months and a flogging; in 1905, 12 months;
and in June 19, ’O7, 12 months and another
flogging. The floggings and imprisonments na-
tually didn’t cure him of his disease, for he was
hardly at liberty before he repeated the offence,
so the St. Kilda wiseacres promptly awarded the
lunatic another flogging and another term of two
years. What a man suffering from plague or
leprosy would get if the St. Kilda magistrates had
the free handling of him this paper can t guess.
The gallows, probably.
S.A. Supreme Court has been talking over
an old-time tragedy. A good slice of that Court was
drowned in the Gothenburg, on the Barrier Reef,
in 1875, on the way back from holding Circuit in
the Northern Territory, and the Government gave
£4OOO to Judge Wearing’s widow', half to goto
the children at her death, and the other half as
she might appoint by her will. Now she has
died, and the Government of the day goes for
duty on the lot; and not only children’s duty,
but the full 10 per cent, payable in the case of a
“stranger in blood.” The idea is that the
daughters are strangers to the Crown, which gave
the money, while, as to the other half, Mrs.
Wearing, by making an appointment, “ suc-
ceeded ”toit on her own death ! The Court said
rather curtly that these legal subtleties did not
appeal to it ; that a gift to the dependents of
a public servant, killed while on duty, was not an
ordinary settlement, and that no duty at all
should be paid.
A NATURAL ASSUMPTION.
THE SEATED PARTY: “ It's no good, I’m that
short-sighted I can't see further than the
length of mg nose.”
THE OCULIST: “Pardon me, sir, hut are you one
of the State Premiers? ”
About an aged identity :
Passed away in his sleep, on the night of Friday last,
John Malbon Thompson, Sydney native, in his 78th year.
He was son of John Thompson, Deputy Surveyor-General
of N. S. Wales, and a daughter of Charles Windeyer, first
permitted reporter of the House of Lords, who came to
Sydney in 1828 as police magistrate. Malbon Thompson
served articles as a solicitor, and was admitted to practice
in 1855. Then he entered into partnership with R. H.
Way, and settled at Ipswich (Queensland), which town he
represented for a while in the Queensland Assembly. ( n
Queensland he was admitted to the Bar, and practised in
the higher courts. He was a member of the Palmer
Ministry, and of Mcllwraith’s first Cabinet, and, while
Minister for Lands, he passed the Homesteads Areas Act
and killed dummying, or at least bruised it considerably.
He died at his quiet home overlooking Middle Harbor,
and was buried at Waverley on Sunday. His brother,
R. W. Thompson, ex-M.L.A., died at Maitland, last l'® ar '
Obituary notices mention casually that John Malbon
Thompson represented Queensland in an abortive Federal
Convention 35 years ago. So Australia didn’t federate
with undue haste after all.
THE IDEAL CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lieutenant-Colonel Macarthur Onslow (M.L.A. for
Waverley) lectured last night to the Women’s Patriotic
Club on “Australian Defence.” The speaker confessed
that he knew little about naval matters, but proceeded to
discuss the proposed Australian navy. Australia was
entirely dependent on the British navy, which was the
peg on which the whole Empire hung. The fate of Aus-
tralia could be decided by a naval battle in any part of
the world. The truest defence was the offensive —to
knock out your enemy before he could get in his blow.
Federation, in respect to defence, had been a disastrous
disappointment, etc.—S. M. Herald (ft9/5/’08).
The points that qualifj' a man to criticise
Australia and her statesmen are diverse.
Than Onslow who is better f ramed for it ? His eyes,
Ears, heart, and feet are large—so is his purse.
The chosen, he, of patriotic Waverley,
The pride of Dill and Betheldoin and Jud ;
None but the Colonel e’er made Jessep quaver. He,
However, caused Toni’s name to be as Mud.
Round about Camden, where his happy tenants dwell,
The Name’s mere mention rouses frantic cheers ;
When He’s “ at home ” on ev’ry hand glad pennants swell,
And loyal yokels maffick and quaff beers.
Aye and anon he dons an ornate uniform
And mounts a horse, and goes upon parade ;
Weird mystic-seeming as some writing cuneiform
A sight to render nurse-maids sore afraid.
Fiscally an unshakable Freetectionist
(He favors tariffs, but approves Freetrade),
A Fed’ral candidate—yet a secessionist :
In brief, a type to cheer the heart of Wade.
Such the astounding man who Deakin’s naval scheme
Verbally batters, putting it to rout;
This (which he owns to) only makes things graver seem,
He nothing knoivs of what he talks about.
N.S.W.
J.p.


fell Pi
WsMM A
4*l
■fm
|i 4
Ik
LONDON, May 26.
At the close of the reception given at
Buckingham Palace, last evening, by the
King in honor of the President of the
French Republic, M. Fallieres was asked
by his Majesty to have a quiet pipe
with him, and try his favorite tobacco.
Cest His Majesty explained
After a few puffs, President Fallieres gave
his verdict, “ C'est magnifique
w w
T V
m
*sr -
f\
H
I
■ ‘j
41
j
V
v
(Imw,
V
I I'*
m •»
• «>>
I^,
M
/
, ■
3> en_~Jck rd —.
L’ENTENTE CORDIALE.
C'est HavelocK; C’est Mag'nifique!


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Ml
<3-0 I*o HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nagei?, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis
This Elastic Truss
n
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofeomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Australian military orders
(1908): —
Regulation 35. The heading “ Union Jack ”is cancelled
and “ Australian Ensign ” substituted.
Nationalism slowly asserts itself.
The Federal Opposition these days is a
hungry and disappointed pack. The snarl of Joe
Cook is something unbeautiful to see ; G. Reid’s
grin is haggard ; and hollow, hollow is the bleat-
ing laugh of the Little Willie party. The
Opposition actually thought for a brief day that
it could creep into office hanging on to Webster’s
coat-tails, and its disappointed mood now is a
study in baffled rage.
In view of recent events a suggested recon-
struction of the Wade (N.S.W.) Cabinet:—
Wade, Prime Grievance-Monger.
Lee, Minister for Public Shrieks.
Moore, Minister for State Rights and Wrongs.
Hogue, Minister for Public Destruction.
Perry, Minister for Gibes and Aggravation.
Hughes, Minister for Public Shirks.
Ashton, Wailer-General and Minister for Injustice to
Australia.
Waddell, Colonial Measurer (of how much can be got
out of the Commonwealth to fake a “ surplus ” with).
Oakes, Honorary Mosquito.
THE UNCERTAIN LUMINARY.
THE ARCUS: “Dash it all, I Wish I knew
Whether he was rising or setting .”
“ A Huer ” writes from London ;
Jenkins Iscariot, South Australia’s general agent, is
unwell, and in medical concealment; so Premier Tom
Price is left alone to crawl round trying to smooth out
his State’s financial difficulties, the result of persistent
over-borrowdng. With the failure of the recent N.S.W.
loan hanging over him, it seems as though Price will
have to pay through his monetary nose for Cohen’s aid,
otherwise he will simply have to say that he can’t meet
Jenkins’ and other ex-Premiers’ debts. Besides the
£1,951,100 of S.A.’s funded debt due this year, there is
£3,122,700 due next year, also three-quarters of a million
of Treasury bills and other local debt; and there’s
£13,000,000 more to be wrestled w'ith inside 10 years.
Before that lot is done with, S. Australia will be quite
willing for Deakin and Lyne, or anybody else, to take
over its bills and horrors.
A cable message says that hundreds of the
poorest children in the West End of London were
presented with flags on Empire Day. There has
evidently been a slight misinterpretation of
Scripture: “They asked for bread, and ye gave
them a flag.”
An old Queensland landmark disappears
from Maryborough—the ancient courthouse built
by the N.S.W. Government in 1857. It was the
oldest structure in the town. The sale was made
to the house-knacker with the reservation that any
documents or coins lying under the foundation
stone should be the property of the local council.
When N.S.W. Parliament meets it will be
time for some earnest Oppositionist to inquire how
much good N.S.W. money has been wasted up
to date in carrying on futile and foolish and
cantankerous law proceedings against the Com-
monwealth —proceedings out of which N.S.W.
gets nothing but ridicule.
Led by Miss Vida Goldstein (who averred,
incidentally, “ that Victoria required a Charles
Cameron Kingston to lift it from its political
ineptitude”), a Woman’s Suffrage meeting in
Melbourne, the other evening, had a ballot on
two questions—the Suffrage and the Premiership;
and this was how it panned out: —
Women’s Suffrage : For, 212 ; Against, 11.
To be Premier: Swinburne, 94; Prendergast, 58;
Peacock, 40 ; Bent, 20.
The bulk of the voters were women, which, to
some extent, explains the pious Swinburne’s
majority. Melbourne Age, by the way, gave
great prominence to the affair, which shows the
way the wind is blowing.
Thus Sydney Telegraph on the financial
outlook :
If the Commonwealth paid old-age pensions and interest
on transferred properties, and took over the Northern
Territory, probably the States might be induced to take
£7,000,000, plus 50 per cent, of all increase in Customs
duties over £12,000,000.
The idea that the Commonwealth is a small kid
being led around by his State nurse seems in-
curable. After 1910, owing to the arrangements
which George Reid, State Premier of N.S.W., in-
sisted on making, the State Governments will
accept just what the Australian Parliament
chooses to give them. The little State potentates
seem to have a difficulty in recognising this, but
the fact will come home to them shortly.
The pro-Chow M.L. Herald is a blandly
inconsistent sheet. Under its “Notes and
Comments ” (14/5/’08) it prints this :—-
The Chinese give steamers improved speed, owing to
their better firing, while, at the same time, their peace-
able nature and their sobriety tend to make life on board
infinitely more comfortable. For the most part Chinese
seem to be employed in the stokehold, and not on deck,
but not a few shipmasters engage Chinamen altogether.
It is a striking circumstance that captains and engineers
are found pleading with their owners to be allowed to
carry Oriental crews.
And a few columns further on it hands its readers
the following:—
Eight Chinese gave some trouble on the wharf in the
early hours of yesterday morning. The Celestials in
question came off the s. s. African Monarch, and refused
to go aboard again when asked to do so by a Custom-house
official. Two policemen were called upon, and after a
great deal of bother they got the Chinese back to the
vessel, the officer in charge undertaking to keep them
there. When they were aboard again they showed a
spirit of resentment and began to throw bricks, bottles,
brushes, timber, and other articles from the deck on to
the wharf. No one was hit, however.
The appointment of A. H. Barlow as
Acting-Premier of Queensland, during Kidston’s
absence in Britain, leaves no doubt in
knowing minds as to the Premier’s in-
tentions. Had Kidston intended to jump
the Agent-Generalship during his trip,
he would have nominated his successor
for the leadership, and that successor
would almost certainly have been Bell.
The rivalry between Bell and Blair—the
only two possible leaders in the present
Cabinet —is well known. Bell, however,
has acted as Kidston’s reliable right-
hand man in all important debates, is
the most ready, subtle and accomplished
debater in the Assembly, and has a much
longer experience in Parliament than
Blair. And as Kidston didn’t want to
promote a Cabinet split by deciding be-
tween the two candidates for the crown,
he fell back on the old war-horse, Barlow,
the man who once said that he could run
all the State departments single-handed
—and who has since done it.
“K. ” : Kidston has left behind
him in Queensland a Cabinet of Care-
takers, pre sided over by Barlow. There
is only one real fighter in the crowd—
Bell—and he has never had a chance of
showing how he could shape before a big
mixed metropolitan audience. In Parlia-
ment he is supreme ; but it is doubtful
if his Hoxford manner and subtle thrusts
would go down with the sort of mob that
goes frantic for George Reid. Bell dis-
tinguished himself during the Constitu-
tional crisis, and if he gets a show as
leader will be a decided cut above the
other State Premiers. At present the
Caretakers are simply keeping the furni-
ture in order until the boss returns.
“ Drake ” writes :
The Bulletin, in connection with the Melbourne
Government cool stores business, asks Swinburne, Bent’s
Minister for Agriculture, what he thinks of himself.
Well, Swinburne isn’t likely to tell. But I can tell
what a number of Victorians are beginning to think
of Swinburne. When he took up his Water Supply
Act, which provided for nationalising all streams and
watercourses in Victoria, and engineered it through
Parliament, we hailed him as a thorough-paced Democrat.
Indeed, some of the Tories who w'ere not in the know' said
he was a Socialist. The other class of Tories simply
smiled. They knew. On every occasion on w'hich Swin-
burne, as Minister, has come into contact with the busi-
ness side of Melbourne, the State has suffered. He and
his Premier made a great boast that through his efforts in
respect to the butter-f reigh t contracts the country had been
saved £30,000 a year. It is now pretty generally believed
that better terms would have been secured if he had not
interfered at all. Under his administration the butter-
shipping business in Victoria is beginning to smell as high
as it did before the lat • Royal Commission—on whose re-
port, by the way, Swinburne has done nothing. The Go-
vernment has granted concessions on all hands to private
cool storage firms, had sidings constructed to some of their
factories, and in every way has crippled the Government
cool storage w'orks. Swinburne is just a political fraud
with the craven’s fear of the fat trader. In the face of
real difficulty he is a weakling, as is shown by his latest
shoddy scheme for compulsory land sales to meet the
closer settlement trouble. His Liberalism is a delusion
and a snare, a fact which he endeavors to hide by Sunday
afternoon addresses on Christian duty and other fleshless
topics.
During the latest discussion re the duties
on electric apparatus, etc., in the Reps., Wilks,
of Balmain (N.S.W.), declared that, although
elected as a Freetrader, he was going to get as
much as he could of “the Protection that would
benefit his constituents.” “ That has now become
my settled policy,” he remarked. In other words,
Protection is a curse, and it is Wilks’ settled
policy to furnish his constituents with all the
curse he can lay hold of because it will do them
good, and put money in their pockets, and clothe
and feed and educate their children. It is a fine
character for a curse to have.
IN FREETRADE ENGLAND.
During a Budget debate in the House of Commons Mr.
Austen Chamberlain taunted the Government with un-
sound finance in establishing old-age pensions without
knowing where the money would come from. — Cable.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer has instituted a Gov-
ernment Fund for affording hospitality to foreign
visitors. — Another Cable.
THE AGED ONE : “ There ain’t enough to go all
round, Jeames, but thank ’ Earings we can
still treat our visitors like gentlemen .”
The Queensland Government purposes
putting a coat of pale wash on Thursday Island—at
present the blackest or brownest patch of Aus-
tralia. The customary Royal Commission has
been appointed. It will report upon the condition
and prospects of the pearl and beche-de-mer
fisheries, with special reference to the possibility
of making them white industries. After which
drastic or other action or no action at all will be
taken.
The Westralian Treasurer, back in Perth
from the State Premiers’ Conference, wept over the
waiting reporters, because of the sinfulness of the
Commonwealth’s transfer-of-debt proposals. The
Commonwealth didn’t propose to relieve the State
of any of the cost of developing the country, he
groaned. Well, the Commonwealth, besides pay-
ing the interest on the debts, proposes to increase
its expenditure by establishing a sinking fund ;
so, in 35 years, instead of having to charge big
freights in order to pay interest on the cost of the
railways, etc., the States won’t have to pay any
interest at all—the Commonwealth proposes to
make the States a free gift of all the present
railways, harbor works, etc. Then, being relieved
of about £7,000,000 of annual interest, the States
will be able to knock £7,000,000 off freights, etc.,
if they want to ; and, if that doesn’t develop the
country, nothing will ever do it.
Carcoar (N.S.W.) was a busy town for a
day or two lately. There were five blocks of land
to be thrown open as homestead selections, and
217 applicants from all parts hustled for the real
estate. The Land Board looked out on the crowd,
and then posted up a notice that “young, single
men would have to give way” to men with “ more
money and experience.” On the principle of
crowding out the young men, the total was re-
duced to 133, and then among that reduced crowd
the servants of the Government which passed the
Anti-Gambling Act ran a lottery for the five
prizes. When the young landless men saw older
men, who already hold 400 or 500 acres, left in the
lottery, there was nearly a rebellion ; but, headed
by “Jupp” Gardiner, ex-M.L.A., they let off
steam at a mass meeting. Meantime, while it
blocks young men from land ballots, and doesn’t
stir a finger to introduce a stiff progressive land-
tax, the Government goes on extending Agricul-
tural Colleges, and makes itself hoarse in shouting
to young men to “go on the land.” It’s like the
last possible idiot of a “ practical joker ” who asks
you to take a seat, and then pulls the chair away.
Thus the Sydney Evening News (27/5/’08),
digging up the claims of Yass to be the capital of
Australia: —
In view of the possibility of the Federal cit.y being in
the vicinity of Yass, writes our local correspondent, there
is no more important factor in favor of such a choice than
the great Barren .Tack scheme of water conservation. It
not only ensures an inexhaustible water supply, and a
resort for pleasure-seekers in the wav of fishing, boating,
and shooting, but as in the United States of America
and, nearer home, in Tasmania, the power of waterfalls is
converted into an electric current to work tram systems,
telephones, telegraphs, the lighting of townships, and a
motive power for machinery. Should the claims of Yass
to the Federal city be recognised, the means of motive
power will be provided at Barren Jack. It would be cheap
and economical, as the overflow water would suffice.
Which is all very beautiful, but there is a huge
beetle in the ointment both as regards Yass and
Canberra, which insect the News most carefully
ignores. All this beautiful water belongs to
the State Government. There might possibly be,
at Barren Jack, sufficient fluid for “ electric cur-
rent to work tram systems, telephones, tele-
graphs, the lighting of townships, and a
motive power for machinery,” but there is
no guarantee that the State Government
would let the Federal capital at Yass
or Canberra have a pint of it. The great advan-
tage of Dalgety is that there the Australian
capital would have its own water supply, and the
first essential of a city is its own water supply.
The clamor for a Federal city beside a purely
State reservoir is merely a scheme to make the
Federal capital and territory a dependency of the
State. If there is to be an Australian capital at
Canberra or Yass, the first condition insisted
upon should be the transfer to the Commonwealth
of Barren Jack reservoir and the waters which
»upply it.
A cutting from a recent issue of the
Farmer and Settler
No. 1696, Casino.—l am sending to you from W. T
Waters, Ltd., a pair of shoulder-straps like those I
referred to some little while ago in the Farmer \ ND
Settler. Instead of costing 3s. 6d., however, they are
now only 2s. lid., because on account of the tariff it has
been found necessary to manufacture them locally with
the fortunate result that they are cheaper than thev wer»
before.
The iniquitous tariff once more !
Greid, after ascribing what he called “the
demoralised condition ” of the Post Office to
“ starvation ” in the matter of supplies, admitted
that during the time he was a fraction of a Prime
Minister the increase of the postal revenue was
£122,000, while the increase of expenditure was
only £2OOO. But, wriggling out of that difficulty,
he said “ he had expiated his own political sins—
and it was the worst form of malignity to arraign
a corpse.” And, by the way, it isn’t the best of
form either for a corpse to wander round making
remarks about people that are alive.
A. J. McLachlan, though he has some good,
sound planks in his platform, will probably be
accepted as “good enough ” by the S. Aus. Tories
to run for Kingston’s seat. Evidently, taking
advantage of the National Ass.’s silence, he is
aiming that way. He “ strongly supports the re-
tention of the Braddon clause,” and in the matter
of old-age pensions, “ he believes it would be far
better for all the States to follow the example of
N. S. Wales and Victoria, and adopt sys-
tems of their own. This would be cheaper
and more effective than handing over the
whole control to the Commonwealth.” As
to the capital site, he “fails to see the neces-
sity for undue haste.” Altogether, in spite of
the democratic patches, and in spite of the fact
that he used to be Kingston’s partner and friend,
A. J. McLachlan shows up as a State Frighter
whose right place certainly isn’t in the National
Parliament.
The ancient lie of the Freetrade and Stink-
ing Fish parties, that Australians can make
nothing, has been badly battered of late, but,
after a brief interval, it rises smiling to resume
business at the old address. One thing about the
Freetrader is that he never knows when he has
been bowled out. Had he sufficient intelligence
to do so, he would, of course, not be a Freetrader.
His voice has been very loud around Bendigo of
late, and now his lies have come back with a
brick attached in the shape of the following
challenge:—
A 0 H E N G E.
I will WORK MY ROCK DRILL AGAINST ANY
IMPORTED MACHINE in any mine in Victoria for
a trial of six months, and if the imported Drill does
more feet of boring on a smaller cost of lip-keep and
a smaller quantity of air in the six months’ trial than
my Machine, the trial being fair and with no favoritism
shown, I will give £lO to the Miners’ Association, and
£2O to anv other Charity decided upon.
TAYLOR HORSFIELD.
The chances are that Taylor Horsfield will not
find any foreign manufacturer’s agent to oblige
him in this matter.
A STATE-RIGHTS NIGHTMARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
vie.
Each sep’rate part of Me’s a State,
And I’m the Commonweal ;
Each part of Me is filled with hate
Of Me. (It makes Me feel
A bit afraid. Nor can I see
Why I should thus afflicted be.)
The parts of Me object to Me.
I am by Me abused ;
I do not know why it should be,
It makes Me get confused.
I sit and wail, dissolved in tears,
I’ve robbed Me of my rights for years !
What “ rights ” do parts of Me possess
That are not also mine?
I read about them in the press ;
When politicians dine,
They say the spectacle affrights
When I go stealing of my rights.
This dismal riddle clouds my wits,
And leaves Me sore afraid :
“ If, as the Whole I rob the Bits
Of which I have been made—
Which of Me’s wronged the most ? Also—
Where does the loot I’ve taken go ? ”
MARTIAL.
FOOD DIDN’T NOUKISH HER.
Sydney Woman Martyr to Indigestion. Grew
Tired and Worn Out. Too Weak for
Housework. Fits of Retching.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Cured Her ry
Making New Blood.
Indigestion usually spells misery. There is
generally pain after eating that is real torture;
belehings of wind ; swelling of the stomach ; dizzi-
ness, headaches, weakness. Then there’s another
form, when the food simply doesn’t nourish ; when
the stomach is not strong enough to take the good
from food that it should. Victims of this
form of indigestion rapidly lose weight and become
pale and emaciated.
What the stomach needs is strength to do its
work properly'. Purgatives may move the food
on, but that doesn’t strengthen the digestion.
Neither will predigested foods, for all the while
they are impairing the digestion by taking away
from the stomach the work that it should naturally
do. There is nothing can give strength to the
stomach so well as Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
they do this by making new blood, simply that
and nothing more. By this means they were able
to cure Mrs. Wilson, of Sydney, and they will do
just as much for any other sufferer who gives them
a fair trial.
“ Two years ago I was attacked with indigestion,
and I suffered off and on till about a month ago,
when Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured me,” said
Mrs. John Wilson, 30 Milford Street, Sydney. " 1
had no appetite, and when I did eat a little 1
could not keep it down—l had fits of retching
directly after. And when I did keep anything
down it lay on my chest for hours, just like as if
an icy cold stone was there. Between my shoulder
blades I had a burning pain. There was a horrible
tight feeling across my chest, and I’d often have
to loosen my clothes to get ease. I slept badly
and never woke up but what I had a bad taste in
my mouth, and my tongue was coated. As to
heartburn, I was always subject to it. Sometimes
I’d get dizzy turns, millions of specks would dance
before my eyes so that I couldn’t see to sew or read.
Many times during the day I’d have to rest, I
was so tired and worn out, and I’d feel quite de-
pressed in spirits. I left off taking tea and pota-
toes, but all my dieting did no good. At last a
friend told me how good Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
were for indigestion, so I gave them a trial. When
I was half way through the second box I felt
better. By the time I had started the third box
my appetite was not so variable. I began to cat
a good meal with relish, and to lose those dread-
ful pains in the chest. I got up each morning
brighter and stronger, and the dizzy turns got less
and less. All I can say now is that my health is
very good.’’ .
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all medicine
dealers, or if you cannot get them locally, send
direct to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Australasia
Ltd., Sydney, 2s. 9d. for one box; six boxes for
15s. 3d. post free.


Wear the...
Well-known
PERFECTA" SHIRT
(Regd.)
For Everyday Wear it
cannot be beaten.
Ready to "Wear.
In Oxford Materials.
5/6
Fifty Patterns to
Select from.
CICLBOURHE.
=» »
N?S
hi
W I
>^s
w
V
$
StoNVtiatSN
Also the
Celebrated
"CESTUS” SHIRT (Regd.)
For Country Wear. Ready to
Wear, in Ceylon Materials,
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED,
300=310 BOURKE STREET, HELBOURNE.
OLU
RECORD
COLUMBIA NEW-PROCESS RECORDS
(DISC or CYLINDER) will fit any make of “ Talking Machine,” and make it sound
almost as good as a Columbia GRAFH-o-phone. Send for our new Catalogues of
lOin. DISC RECORDS at 2/6 each ; I2in. DISC RECORDS at 4/- each ;
GOLD=MOULDED CYLINDER RECORDS at 1/3 each.
Say which, or say all —Free, of course.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. Gen'!, 255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
An EFFECTIVE-
CURE for . . •
RHEUMATISM
That's our Medical Battery. It relieves
the agonising pains of all forms of Rheu-
matism, and, if persistently used, will
effect a permanent cure.
Whenever Electricity is required, the
Medical Battery will give abundant
satisfaction. Can be made very strong
or very weak. Good for all nervous
disorders.
CURES...
RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO
SCIATICA
and all
NERVOUS
TROUBLES
Price
35-
POST
FREE.
Money back if
unsatisfactory.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards,
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
of Twelve
Rikifpt of Ten
... Is
... lOd
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it, is not true, speak it not."— Marcus Aurelius.
The dangers and discomfort of a leaky roof can he entirely obviated by
the use of MALTHOID READY-MADE ROOFING. When considering
the question of what roof to adopt, send to us for a sample and full infor-
mation. It means your saving both money and trouble.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
'CUitZ
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS :
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
G. A. GARDINER.
SORRY & CO.. Nkwcastj.k.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, I/TP.
F. LASSETTER <fc CO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOR,ETON MANAGER, SYDNEY, N S.W
u
Ma
Your
Feet
Happy
Why s w f ith r Corns?
THE MACIC CORN
RUBBER
One Shilling, Posted.
Painlessly removes any corn. Gives
instant ease. No paring or cutting. Just
rub it gently and all soreness is taken
away. No pain, no danger, no stuff to
put on for a week. 'I his antiseptic
Rubber removes the corn in less than one
minute. Will serve a whole family for
years. Posted to any address for ONE
SHILLING Postal Note or Stamps of
any State. Try one and tell your friends.
Failure is impossible.
OBTAIN ABLH ONLY FROM
THE UNION CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy’for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
‘ r INSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, etc.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
‘COAGULINE,’‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Cements for broken and other articles.
MOUN TAIN FLAX (‘ Lfnum Catharticum ’ Trade
Mark) PILLS. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
SIMPLE TRICKS
498 — Barber's Pole. A 3ft. pole pro-
duced from the mouth 1/-
499 — Mahatma Changing Cards. With
which several changes of spots can be
made 1/-
503 —An Easy Production of silk from
a lighted candle, 1/9
506 —Flowers of Enchantment. An
empty cone of paper is displayed, but,
on shaking it a shower of beautiful
flowers emerge, 10/-
511—Tumbler and Half-a-Crown The
coin vanishes from a glass of water and
penetrates a table, 2/6
516 — Biseaute Cards. Pack can be ad-
apted to anytrick, requires no skill, 2/9
517 — -Electrical Cards. Can be laid
along your arm in effortless style, 4/9
520 —Great Indian Sack Trick 13/-
522—Enchanted Rising Cards. Will
rise at your command after being
selected by the audience 5/3
524 —Swallowing Wand. The per-
former can cause anyone to swallow
it in full view of the audience, ... 5<3
526 —1 he Enchanted Glass Casket.
A handsome glass casket is displayed
empty. The performer can command
two large balls to appear in it in-
stantly 7/6
528—Eggs Produced. A bag from
which a quantity of eggs is produced
after being exhibited empty, ... 5/-
531 Bran and Sweets—A glass of bran
turns to lollies. Good for Kiddies, 2/6
532 Handkerchief Dyed by passing
them through a paper tube, ... IU/6
537 —Card on Bottle. A selected card
appears on a borrowed bottle, ... 7/9
539 —Billiard Ball and Silk. A piece
of silk examined slowly changes to a
billiard ball, 2/9
Postage included. Send for Catalogue
Above List of Simple Tricks pos ed, 7JIO
A Complete Show. Send money order.
POSTAL ADDRESS :
The MAHATMA COMPANY
108 QU££N STREET,
MELBOURNE
For
Home
and
Platform
Complete
with
Full
Instruc-
tions
GOOD RESULTS.
Clements Tonic
Cures and Strengthens.
THE PROOF.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
With a view to bringing before the public a
matter of considerable importance, a reporter
rapped at 114 Glebe Road, Glebe, where Mrs.
Hannah Wells resides. The lady appeared in
response, and upon the pressman’s mission being
explained, she said
“Certainly. Nothing would give me more plea-
sure than to relate the story of my great achieve-
ment of four years ago, especially as it will be so
serviceable to many in want of guidance. You
see it was after fruitlessly trying several home
remedies that I saw about Clements Tonic in the
papers, and made up my mind to find out what it
was like for myself, as I was very ill, and was
willing to take anything so long as I got better.
I was as
WEAK ANI) MISERABLE AS ANY
WOMAN COULD BE,
and had such a sallow complexion, too, that to
look at me you would have thought I had the
jaundice. My chest used to cause me no end of
bother, for often I felt that something was there,
blocking my breath, besides having heavy, op-
pressive pains as well. I hadn’t any inclination
to eat.
NO APPETITE AT ALL,
so what could I expect but to get thin and deli
cate looking, which I assuredly did. From the
time I arose from bed of a morning till I returned
again in the evening I was as languid and indo-
lent as could be. When I tried to sleep at night
I could not, and oh ! it was so wretched being
there hour after hour waiting for the daylight,
and when it came, what did it bring? Only
another day of sorrow. My sight got bad, and
my eyes felt as heavy as lead ; the taste in my
mouth was awfully bitter, and the worst of it was
that my head was always aching.
“Indeed, I don’t know what I hadn’t got to
make life a burden, and if I hadn’t taken Clements
Tonic when I did I am afraid to think what would
have happened, for I was going down hill fast.”
“ Had your nerves given way at all ? ”
“Oh ! I was fearfully nervous, scarcely able to
move without getting a shock at some trivial thing
or other, and even when I managed to snatch a
little sleep my mind was unsettled with various
ugly dreams. Now, that is where Clements Tonic
came in with good results very speedily. It
quieted my nerves, and gave me such com-
mand over myself that nothing surprised or
excited me, and as for having nasty dreams
or getting frightened at anything—why, I
was quite exempt in both respects. I used to
meet trouble halfway too, but I got quite out of
that habit since using Clements Tonic, which also
made me eat as hungrily as if I had taken a good
sea trip before each meal. What surprised me
more, though, and my friends too, was the manner
in which my pains subsided, for when I told them
that I was perfectly at ease, and that my head-
aches were gone, they could scarcely believe me.
But it is nevertheless a fact that Clements Tonic
cured me and strengthened me thoroughly, and
in the interests of similar sufferers you may pub-
lish these remarks as it suits you.”
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twenty-
fourth day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and three, before me, W. T. TATE, J.P.


Charles Heidsieck
VINTAGE 1900
Champagne.
THE VERY BEST.
“PRICOTA”
LIQUEUR
The Ideal Ladies 9 Liqueur
If you want a liqueur,
Why not try a “ Pricota ? ”
It is wholesome and pure
If you want a liqueur.
To its praises I’m sure
You will soon add your quota;
If you want a liqueur
Why not try a “ Pricota.”
WHOLESALE FROM—
Ho&, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld., Sydney & Melbourne
Girls, why be plain? You can, if you choose,
always be radiant and charming-, even if your features
are irregular and indifferent. But your complexion must
be perfect, then people will turn to look again. Valaze
creates beauty and preserves it. Valaze perfects the good
skin, purifies the bad skin, and beautifies all skins.
Pimples, wrinkles, freckles, and all blemishes disappear
under the spell of Valaze ; 6s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6d.
postage. For removing superfluous hairs there is nothing
like the Novena Hair Destroyer. It removes the hairs
without any detriment to the skin, and after application
•eaves a delightfully cool sensation ; 6s. 6d., 6d. postage.
All chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein and Co.
Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street, Sydney; 274
Collins-street, Melbourne ; 9 Brandon-street, Wellington
N.Z.* [! ’
One or two more deputations from the
country have been getting shocks at the public
offices in Melbourne. Certain persons from
Avoca asked Minister Cameron for £5OO to repair
their neglected roads, and seemed quite hurt when
Cameron, by way of reply, threatened to issue
summonses against those Avoca landowners who
had not paid up their rates. Then a body of Warr-
nambool brigands, who had been given £3OO a
year or two ago, with which to plant marram
grass on the foreshore, and had allowed cattle to
wander over it and eat it down till only sandy
desert remained, coolly asked for another £3OO to
plant more grass, and £4OO to put a fence round
the paddock. Also, they would like the area then
made over to the council. Not being able to
think of anything else to ask for, they stopped
there—and then got the shock mentioned above.
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
See that teapot —it’s just an
ordinary earthenware one still
it’s as good a teapot as you
can get to make tea in.
Warm it—then measure
into it the necessary quantity
of tea—fill it with water just
to the boil —let it draw for
5 or 6 minutes—and you’ll be
able to pour as good a cup
of tea out of it as anybody
needs drink—this applies
especially to the No. 1 Grade
Robur—the No. 2 Grade is
jolly good tea, too.
SOREEEE
(THE MISSES CLAPP) /
Will he in Sydney as usual Early in July to show
Their New Spring Models and Materials
They will take a fitter with them. Notification of
address and date will be given later.
<(
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King: and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FACILE PRINCEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 2, 1908.
My Dear AriAi,—
Not to have been arrested a few times for motor-
scorching and sentenced to a term or three of gaol
(with the option) is to argue yourself a social
back-number these days. All the Best People are
getting arrested. The procedure—provided you
oyvn a motor—is simple. You do a measured
distance at a rate which the constables on the spot
estimate at 30, 40, or 50 miles an hour, as the
case may be. Apprehension follows even as a
swift dog pursues a slow cat. It is bad form
to admit to anything over 10 miles an hour. You
protest to the policeman that the same car you
told your friends the night before at dinner was
up to 60 miles on a fair road is physically incapable
of going faster, under the most favorable circum-
stances, than a hearse. You know you are roman-
cing ; he knows you are improvising ; also he
knows that you know he knows you are fabrica-
ting, and you know he is fully apprised of the
circumstances. But it is “ the game,” and has to
be played. Later, you are haled before a magi-
strate, who has, not improbably, .been out with
you himself and had personal proof of the extreme
speediness of your vehicle. He listens cynically
to your changed views as to its powers, and un-
hesitatingly passes you a term of gaol with the
alternative of separation between yourself and
some coin: After which you depart and begin all
over again. The Eadith Walker conveyance, the
Philip Morton mausoleum-on-wheels, and a
dozen others have been “mentioned ” during the
last few days, and on Friday Mr. J. M. Manson’s
Juggernaut (determined to be in the movement or
bust) came up for treatment. Its doings won for
its owner the social cachet of a fine, or in default
14 days’ hard labor. He is appealing against this
decision—thus introducing a new and hitherto
unexploited feature into the game.
The litigant is an-architect with powerful Gov-
ernment House leanings. Mrs. Chief Justice
Darley, on first meeting him, is alleged to have
hoisted her hands Empyrean-wards in helpless
bewilderment and murmured “Why, he is quite
nicer or words to’that effect. Just why an
architect should be expected to be nasty re-
mained a mystery, as the Dowager’s amaze-
ment rendered her speechless at this stage.
He is an import from either Killiecrankie-by-the-
Burn, or Auchtermuchty (it has never been
clearly established which), and hence has come
to be known among the Sheridans of the local
society as “ Haggis.”
All Sydney that can afford it is again in its
winter quarters—the Glaciarium. Bridge is a
negligible quality. The one business of life is to
have a glowing time on the ice. And some skaters
chase the glowing hours with flying feet from 10
to 10 (with intervals for food, and for the refreez-
ing of the frozen floor), with the persistency of a
hungry duck seeking worms after rain. There are
stout ladies who skate because they want to thin
down, thin ladies . who skate because the
exercise makes them eat twice as much as
previously and they hope to fatten up. and others
who skate for love of skating, and with no other
objective but just skating. The skaters—they are
very good on the knife-edge, or they couldn’t do
it—who carry their hand-bags, or purses, or other
like property round and round, are “too amusin’ ”
One lady carries a kind of Saturdav-to-Mon-
day Russia leather bag. Probably her jewel-
lery is in it, and she fears 'to trust it
on a nail or under a seat, but hands
that carry anything on the ice save a muff seem
badly treated. One skateress carried her bull-
pup for a little time, but it wriggled free and got
its feet so cold that the damsel had to spend ten
minutes warming them in her hands.
, Mrs. Lucy, whose husband is Something or
Someone m the Railway Department, is about the
most expert and graceful ice-glider this season.
She most probably acquired the glacial glide in
the Land of Hope and Glory (of which Clara Butt
sang), where God, and not Dunbar Poole, makes
the ice. Little or medium-height women with
slender figures look the best of the rushing throng
Mrs. Walter Allen cuts ice as gracefullv as a
swallow slums, and the two W. P. Manning girls,
Eadith and Trixie, ate beautifully “handy on
their feet.” And, as Lauri used to say, “there
are hothers. ”
Some woman skatists would do well to leave
their facial expressions at home. They go about
their freezing joy with a hunted, harassed look
a “ good-heavens-I’ll-miss-my-train-if-I-call-in-at’-
the-ham-and-beef-shop-and-if-I-don’t-eall-there’ll-
be - nothing- at - home-to-eat-but-bran-and-pollard ”
expression. If you’ve got good teeth, take your
ice smiling. If you haven’t, cultivate a calm or
wooden mask, and the cold expression of Cuyler
Hastings when he left his cigar in Prof. Moriartv’s
cellar. J
It is hard to believe that the enthusiasm which
greets a Melba, a Kubelik, a Paderewski, at a
lown Hall concert in either of the great Aus-
tralian cities, is all genuine. Much of it must
surely be affected. The most miraculous of
musicians could not get into real touch with an
audience in,,say, Sydney Town Hall. The spell
of music cannot be woven in the fierce light which
beats from every corner of that hall on a concert
night. Eye-strain, mental irritation, headache
afflict to a more or less extent everyone present
and the subtle delights of the music must fight
against all those, and in most cases fight in vain
To a lesser extent this is also true of Melbourne
Town Hall. Wise musicians should either hire
theatres, where the lighting of the auditorium can
be kept at a restful pitch, or insist on reform in
lown Hall illumination.
If Sydney doesn’t flock to press “ The Mummy
and the Humming Bird ” to its starched evening
shirt and its rose-point decollete gown, then Sydney
deserves all it gets and all that’s coming to it in
the way of rubbish. It is an artistic play artisti-
cally produced, and played by a bunch of actors
who are artists from Herbert Flemming (who has
lost a bit of his facade) down to the young
serving damsel who is always mentioned in the
fashionable cast without a prefix. Beatrice Day’s
acting of Lady Lumley reminds of Tessa in John
Oliver Hobbes’ “Dream and The Business,” “a
great lady who is not yet great only because she
is still young. To be the grande dame in early
womanhood is to play the impostor and receive
the reward of a prig.” And if this point of view
doesn’t appeal to you, her frocks will. One is a
soft, white satin, embroidered in (what appeared
to' the Circlers) pink roses and ’blue, curling
feathers. And her theatre coat of dull daffodil-
yellow chiffon velvet is an inspiration. The new'
girl, Miss Clarens, proves to be in appearance a
tall, slender, gold-topped charmer with an
attractive wide smile.
Bookino Seats : a Drama in One Act.
Time: Forenoon. Place: The booking counter at
Paling’s. Persons : About eighty in number, waiting to
book Seats for Kubelik’s concert. A lady in black, with
white fox furs and kingfisher blue toque, obstructs the
booking. She has put the price of two half-guinea seats
on thecounter, but keeps her hand on the money. She
is already on the nerves of the booking clerk.
Lady in Black : “ But I want seats right in the middle
of one of the best rows.”
Clerk : “ Yes, madam, here are two excellent seats.
The booking for the half-guinea seats has been heavy
and
Lady in Black : “ But are thej' right in the centre of
that block of chairs?”
Clerk (his forehead corrugating) : “ Not quite, but
they are of the best. You can see and hear ”
Lady in Black : “ Can’t you shift the people who are in
those seats ? ”
Clerk : “ No, they are booked and paid. Will
you ”
Lady in Black : “ Well, it is really too bad that after
the way I and my family have patronised Sydney
musicians I can’t get any seats, and I did so want to
hear this new ’cellist. I shouldn’t wonder if the people
who are in the seats I want didn’t know how many strings
a ’cello has.” (Sees a friend.) “ O, Myra, isn’t it a pest
the way people are allowed to book sometime about
dawn, and” ( relates her grievance to Myra.)
Myra : “ But here are two end seats, right in the
middle of the main aisle. You couldn’t have better.”
Lady in Black : “I couldn’t have worse. Everyone in
that row of chairs would have to crush past me, and I’m
going to wear my new chiffon frock, and it is the most
crushable thing I ever had. Really, it’s like a rose
petal-and”- ,
Clerk is busily booking seats for others, taking their
money over Lady-in-Black’s shoulder. Two pert girl music-
students force their ivay to the counter. They eye the
Lady.
First Pert Person (ivhispering): “Look at the old
curiosity shop/’
Second Pert Person (ivhispering) : “ I’m looking at its
toque. Sue ought to be given a dose of Rough-on Hats.”
(They giggle.)
The young clerk’s forehead goes smooth under their
coquettish glances, and he hopes. “ that for Kubelik’s
sake this boisterous weather won’t continue.”
Lad.y in Black (turning suddenly and angrily): “Am
I to be kept here all day? Please mark off these two and
let me go.” • -
Clerk (the lines again in his forehead) : “ That is the
transept of the Town Hall.”
Lady in Black: “Well, give me two seats in the
tranship.”
Two young women motorists edge up. One is short-
sighted. She surveys the Lady-in-Black’s furs and, indi-
cating them to her friend, queries “ Meow i ”
Second Motorist (shaking her head) : “ No.”
First motorist raises her hands to her head to simu-
late two pointed ears.
Second Motorist Rabbit! Nonsense. They are the
real thing—pure fox.”
She books two seats, remarking to clerk: “ They look a
good brace.”
Clerk: “They are just behind Lady Northcote’s
party, madam.”
Lady in Black (in cold fury): “Why didn’t you give
me those seats, seeing that I’ve been waiting here
twenty minutes ? ”
Clerk: “But you wanted half-guinea seats. Those
are in the guinea block.”
Lady in Black ( coloring violently) : “ What is the extra
guinea to me? If you had told me those seats were avail-
able, I’d have taken them if they were five guineas.
Where’s Mr. Southwell ? I will be attended to somewhere,
if not at this counter.”
She dashes off, leaving a little pile of coins, a purse, a
Mmch of violets, a pdrasol, a strap of library books, and a
letter on the counter. Thirty-five persons press forward.
The maddened clerk shifts the lady's property to a shelf
behind him and blue pencils the seats with a slinking
hand. A fair, tired-looking man, with a pointed beard,
is indicating seats he would like in the gallery. Two
Smart Setters enter on outskirts of crowd.
First Smart Setter : “ Kubelik’s first name is Jan, isn’t
it?”
Second S.S. : “ Yes, and his wife has taken the name of
Jane, just to be closer to him, as it were. They are so
devoted.”
First S.S. : “It must be funny to hear them Jan and
Janeing each other. You do get the most out-of-the-
way news. O look, look—there’s the new'manager of the
Strike-a-Light Assurance C o." (indicates fair, tired-look-
ing young man).
Second S. S. (looking) : “ Well, what of him ? ”
First S. S. : “ He has such a reputation ! ”
Second S. S. : “ Has he ? ” (her eyqspop) “ What kind ? ”
First S. S. : “ They say he can’t be alone with a woman
without trying to kiss her.”
Second S. S : “ Really ! Do you know if I were a man
that’s just the kind of reputation I’d strive for.”
First S.S. : “ O, you are a trick ! ” (puts her face in her
muff and laughs).
Clerk (to remainder of throng) : “ The.plan has closed
for the first concert, but some extra chairs ” —r— (pauses
as wild-eyed Lady in Black bursts through the group).
Lady in Black (excitedly) : “ My purse has been stolen—
stolen out of my muff, and you must have the doors
closed and these people searched, and”
Clerk (handing it and other things to her) : “ You left
it on the counter, madam.”
(She receives it coldly, as one to whom stolen property is
being restored.)
Those on the correspondence list of Sydney’s at-
present absent Mr. “ Willie ” Lawson, urge that
it is bitterly unjust tohim that the likewise absent
Mrs. Arthur Mae Arthur should be credited
with exclusive knowledge of British duchesses,
as suggested by me a week or two ago.
Our departed fellow-countryman knows, it ap-
pears, quite as many duchesses as Mrs. Mae Arthur.
Duchesses are, as a fact, his hobby. He amasses
ducal acquaintances as lesser men amass Elzevir
Bibles. He collects them as if they were the blue
Mauritius postage stamp of the year Eighteen
Hundred and Curse. So surely as a duchess
swings into his orbit he knows her—otherwise
there is trouble. Last month he dined with a
Mr. and Mrs. Magee. Debrett does not mention
the Magees, but they are doubtless notables in
some way or other. At this dinner there was a
Grand Duke and his wife! It is enough. A 1
grand ducal family stands to any other sort of ducal
family in the same relation as the indigenous
president of a back blocks Progress Association
does to the minion that brings him his supper-
beer. The enthusiast who adds a grand ducal
exhibit to his social collection experiences more
than the joyful pride of a Bruce Smith unearthing
a Newton-annotated volume of the “ Principia,”
and calls for the same reverential homage. I shall
never misplace Mr. “Willie” Lawson socially
again as long as I live.
Miss Irene Marks leaves for England shortly.
The old Glenrock home of the Marks family,
which was willed to her, is to be sold, if any
one can be found in these days of flats and maison-
ettes to buy and keep up such a big place. Her
persistent adorer —he of the be-windowed eye—is
expected to poison or otherwise destroy himself in a
public place on the day she departs. Her brother
will take a flat in town, and there abide in that
atmosphere of discomfort which surrounds the
male ten times out of nine when he settles down
and tries to do for himself.
It is the Day of the Curled Darling. Lady
Northcote gave some 160 of It a party at Federal
Government House last week. The party age-
limit of It was fourteen years, but the majority
seemed to be under the doddering age of ten, The
collective Kid was beautiful. It is impossible for
anything human and normal and under the age of
five to be other than beautiful. The babyhood of
cats and dogs is beautiful. The fives and sixes
in ages were the belles and beaux of the
wet-day fancy-dress frisk. At six, the human
bantling isn’t a snob. 1 have only heard of one
infant snob, and slwuwas a snobbess. She was seven
years old, and returning from a juvenile party on
a French warship. A grown-up Smart Setter got
into talk with her. “How did you like the
party?” “Not very much,” said Milk-Teeth;
“it was very mixed. Did you notice how silent I
was all the afternoon?” “No,” replied the
Grown-up; “ why were you silent ? ” “ Because I
wasn’t going to do anything so common as to talk
English on a French vessel. I would have spoken
French if I could have got anyone to talk to.”
She wasn’t thrown overboard from the launch —
her mother was looking.
Amongst the 160 “fancies” in dress there
wasn’t a single Australian character. No swag-
men, no stockriders, no miners, no rabbiters.
The stockrider character makes a ripping
get-up, but I can well understand that of the
swaggie and rabbiter being boycotted. They’d
be too beastly cheap. Pretty well all
of Grimm’s and Andersen’s fairy tales found
an exponent, and there was a Peter Pan,
and an Indian chief, and a Little Boy Blue, and a
Prince Rudolf, and various bands of Princesses
and Queens of Hearts and Tarts, but never a
character from an Australian fairy story. There
are quite pretty and picturesque “fancies ” to be
got out of some of these locally-grown tales. A
small Fairfax boy (he is weighted with the
front name of Warwick) was a lovable little
pirate in blue, with top-boots and earrings. Two
little girls, daughters of Willis, M.P., made
charming japs, and a daughter of Dr. Jenkins
(with hair like spun sunbeams) carried out the
character of Fairy Tales with the best in the
gathering;' Her robe was of white satin, painted
with various scenes, persons and winged things
that tell of fairies.
There were bran pies, Punch and Judy shows,
and live officers in uniform from Victoria
Barracks, and 365 kinds of food. Food of
chromatic hue and saccharine flavor is more im-
portant to the Prince Charmings and Snow-
Whites and Rose(Reds than aught else. I love
the child that will over-eat itself and then say,
“ Mother, put I to bed, but don’t bend I.”
As for the live officers —they supplied the
comic element for the grown-ups present. To
see the handsome Colonel Wallace and an eight-
foot high Irving bending the patent hinges in the
middle of their backs (to say nothing of breaking
their corsets) so as to get down low enough to
dance with a 80-Peep twice the height of a lead
pencil was worth the money most of the women
guests will have to pay for the re-curling of their
hat plumes.
Miss Rose Dalton, youngest daughter of Mr.
James Dalton, of Orange, was, married last month
in Ireland to a merchant member of Parliament
named M’Killop. The presence at the ceremony
of certain Devlins and Redmonds gave a Home
Rule flavor.
Thus “Mario,” from Brisbane:—
It has been a racing week, with lots of money in circu-
lation and lashings of fun. On Saturday there was a
bumper crowd at Ascot, and no termination of dainty
frocks. But on Monday! Well, as water unto wine
were the frocks of Saturday against the splendors, and
chiffons of Cup Day. The Chelmsford lady shed a<sub-
dued light in a pale, yellowy-browny grey, which looked
as homely as hubby’s hat against the garniture of the
fluttered on the lawn. The Ramsay couple and
George Godsall —whose good neddy won the Cup,
and got the owner overwhelmed with congratulations—
were in the pen, and tea’d in the radiance of Vice-regal
light. The gay George was the hero of the hour, as he
went about telling all and sundry to have a bit “on the
old horse,” and many were the squires and dames who
profited thereby. But the frocks ! (I believe I have used
that exclamation before.) One huge lady looked like a pale
blue avalanche, while one of our Very Best Girls
appeared in a black-and-white striped skirt, and on top
what looked like a garish pink dressing jacket, hastily
flung on. Her hat was hung ' on a last hair,
and that hair had somehow come off its last hairpin, and
the effect was startling. Then there was another leader
of society whose temper was spoiled by having a cup of
coffee spilled into her lap. It was hard, for liquids were
at a premium, and that cup of good coffee in her lap was
all she was able to obtain the whole afternoon, and they
charged her a shilling for it.
On Monday night their Exes, went to the Patriotic
concert, where, at the exactly right moment, when 5000
excited citizens were waiting breathlessly to “ Break the
Flag,” the flag wouldn’t break, or rather it did—right
away, and not all the King’s, horses or his bold blue-
jackets could put it up again.
On Tuesday, Mr. George Sampson’s Orchestral Society
introduced to Brisbane some Mendelssohn Symphony,
and the pale, tired Governor, who had evidently taken
the flag business to heart, quite brightened up and
clapped a perisher.
Wednesday saw a huge concourse of frocks and frills
onvthe vice-regal grass and gravel, where the guileless
Verney disentangled the weird hieroglyphics upon visit-
ing cards with a glibness of tongue that rivalled
Angelina’s explanation to Pa as to why the drawing-room
gas went out.
In the evening everyone went to “ Peter Pan,” who by
that time was “ fairly set” in Brisbane, and Miss Brune .«
graceful brown legs and ginger jerkin captivated many
hearts.
Yes, it’s been a ga}’ week. Even the good, stodgy
Queensland Club awoke from about 20 years of respect-
able boredom. There was quite a scandal, but Angelina,
who told me (she heard it through her husband, whose
half-brother was told by his second cousin), seemed a
little vague in detail. So whether a western squatter is
to be posted for swallowing a hock bottle, or whether
three giddy citizens were caught playing billiards with
three potatoes and some toasting forks, I couldn’t quite
gather. Anyhow, stout John Forrest will have tn .a
a special meeting to decide to do something drastic 0B
A cold, horrid chill of coincidence! You km™
Baskerville, the secretary and the real s?*
All Black tour, passed in his checks here at a , the
pital. Unto acertain footballer, Baskerville confesata hos '
his arrival that he felt “ crook.” “ Good God i” „ u P ? B
local kicker, “don’t peg out here. Why W h n . th *
Kieran and Spragg we’re getting an awful’ rermL'i.
Don’t do it here, old man.” Baskerville chee™?
at that, and said he wouldn’t. But he conH„
very off-color, and at last was moved over to the hn«l!a e , d
The following Wednesday all Queen-street was
to see a drag full of “ Blacks ” tooling out to the
closely followed by a mourning coach, with a hlaL v!„ ’
in the shafts. Everyone laughed, but some one
that a hearse was about the right thing to keen LT
near a football match. At five that evening ther J
bowled back into town, flushed with victory to Kg m
with the news that its mate was sinking ’ The mtt
tumbled back into the drag, and galloped for the hosn?f’!i'
There, with their sodden jerseys, cut knees, and bruCi
faces, they gathered round the bed, and took turns 1,
holding the hand of their mate, who quietlv slinneH
within ten minutes of their arrival. ‘ awa - v
Jimmy Blair has gone a-mot.oringto Cloncurrv with
pressman in tow to record his dying words if the car
eaten by the alligator that Johnson nearly sat unnn
The Western kiddies are nearly mad with rapture at th
tootling, smellful machine. “My word,” remarked on!
urchin, as the engineer wound up the works and sh!
began to heave and snort, “’E earns ’is dough don’t *
The Cloncurryites are waiting still for the arrival of that
(Continued on page 32.)


6URKE3
•we stow
LEAVING THE SOUTH FOR
THE SUNNY NORTH.
Queensland is tHe Winter
Paradise of Australia.
The Tourists* Ideal Trip in Winter is
to go aboard the Mail Train at Sydney
or Melbourne, and waKe up in Sunny
Queensland.
Writ® to the Queensland Railway
Department, Brisbane, for foil particulars.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE - £6 O
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON - - - lO O
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE - - - 12 O
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON - - 14 5
•BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE - O 15
"BRISBANE and CHARTERS TOWERS - lO lO
•BRISBANE and CAIRNS - - - - 10 17
•Including Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
0 0 0 0 0 0 o


The
Right
Corset
a
w
Celebrated
RD.(of#
Makes all
the differ-
ence. The
sto u t
w Oman
sighs as
she beholds
the lissom
long-waisted
woman, vet
the ‘ P.D.
Corset
will add
length t o
her own
w a i s t —at
the same
time make
it more
s 1 e n d er—
giving her
the long
sloping hip-
line. The
-P.D.” will
produce all the’
desired lines of trimness—slender waistedness
—the long hip and rounded bust. Thus the
over-stout woman (and the over-thin woman
too) will find satisfaction and pleasure in
every pair of “P.D.” CORSETS
s
INSIST tt n jj
ona“P.D« corset
All Drapers and Storekeeper!
LOP
MOTOR
TYRES
V..n/
Ensure long distance Mot Ting
at little expense. UNEQUALLED
for STRENGTH, WEAR and
RELIABILITY. The only Tyre for
rough Australian Roads.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., ALL STATES AND N.Z.
UNLOP
ROADRACIN
Sl tyres .
sshm
ROAD'
RIDERS
tB
who desire to meet with success
in Road Races must use the Fastest
and Most Reliable Tyres. Our Special
SKIN - SIDED DUNLOP TYRE Is
acknowledged to be the Fastest and
Most Successful on the road. We
recommend this Tyre to all
speedmen. Obtainable with I
L Non-Slipping or Plain Band //
from all Cycle Agents. jßr i
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
. ALL STATES & N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 1, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
According’ to Mr. Drake, the man whom we
pay an inadequate salary to keep on the track of
such things, this last January-March quarter was
the best for marriages that Victoria has ever had.
Not even in the boom days, when some people
used to go out and start two new banks before
breakfast, and nearly everybody was going to be
a millionaire in about a fortnight—not even then
was the breath of Eden kept so busy rushing
backwards and forwards.
That pert magpie of a Carrie Moore has settled
down to her old ways and old chums with great
precision. She says the J.C.W. regime makes
her feel five years younger, and that, anyhow,
she’s going to have a beautiful girlv sort of time
while she’s here. “ It’s so nice,” chirps Carrie,
“to be able to stroll up Bourke-street to the
theatre, and meet half-a-dozen people on the
way whom you know. It’s better than driving
through London fogs in an electric brougham.
London treated me awf’ly well, don’t you know ;
but, all the same, it’s a great, big, damp
sort of camp for one little Australian. And there,
if you|re a ‘go,’ you seem to spend half your
life being made into postcards. And, by the way,
people talk about Australian girls not wearing
well. Girls who were in ‘Djin-Djin’ when I
used to sing ‘I don’t want to play in your yard’
with Ivy Scott, have hardly altered a bit in
appearance—and here am I a Merry Widow. On
the other hand, girls I met soon after I went to
England were looking like their own aunts when I
left. Australian girls are everlastings, pretty well.
And oh ! if only our Comic Opera chorus could
do a season in London—what a hit it would make !
Our ladies have voices and figures too. In
England, most often the voices aren’t fit to be
seen, and the figures aren’t fit to be heard. All
the Australians are doing well, I think. Violet
Elliott, Maude Thornton, Sara Hyman, Winnie
Brown are all kept working. And Jimmie Watts,
a Ballarat boy with a very fine tenor and a pair
of marvellously clever legs, made a sensation in
a provincial panto, last season. My, isn’t the
sun just lovely!” And Carrie flutters off to
another bough.
Mrs. Charlie Wallace’s progress is reported
from over seas. She’s having a good time on the
boat—-or was, up to Colombo. Musical sister
Oliva is quite an fait with the Clara Butt family,
and some of the Very Best Matrons sympathise
with Mrs. Charlie during deck chats. The lady
deports herself with huge prudence, and dis-
courages too fervid male attentions with a frigid
eye. Which is just as wise perhaps. Also, the
Butt lady bursts into song and rather candid
criticisms of Australia on the slightest provo-
cation.
I’ve been considering Woman very seriously for
the last five minutes. I’ve not been worrying
about her soul, because I doubt its existence. (I
think myself she has a large appetite, and a bad
moral digestion in lieu of one J) It’s the way she
pads her hips and wears her nose that’s'been
troubling. One is always hearing of the woman
who has a nutcracker profile, and wears her hat
set well back from her head like the lid of a Jack-
in-the-box. One is eternally bored by plaints
against the way she wears her waistbelt—pulled
far down in front, so that she impresses the
observer as. having the sort of legs Schopenhauer
attributes to our sex. Veils that skirmish round
her cheekbones and only serve to injure her sight,
the transparent sleeves which confess that her
elbows have housemaid’s knee, the high-boned
collars which make her look as though her head
had been taken off the pike of a sans-culotte and
attached toasmart frock—all theseindiscretions are
canvassed in print and conversation. But they’re
negligible details compared with the unwisdom of
the padded hip. Now, to-day, I saw a woman
who wore hips that were quite 40 inches round.
She had a high-bridged nose, which straitened its
cuticle—the sort of nose that goes with a flat
chest and a Particular Baptist husband. She had
a flat chest, as already hinted at, but her hips dis-
avowed the P.B. husband—he would have hurled
them out of the house on principle, or on the main
road, or anywhere. My lady meandered along
quite happily. Her skirt and her hips were
both on crooked, and her nose was decidedlv red.
But she felt that she was It, because of her
illusory hips. She was one of a multitude who
make the same sad error. Sisters !it is useless to
wear warm pads and a cold nose. Eortv-inch
hips need a nose with some flesh on it. A snub-
nose, a pretty nose, a hooked nose, a highly-
sensitive nose, can be worn with hips. But the
isolated-looking organ gives away our use of in-
flated indiarubber thingumbobs. Here endeth
the first lesson.
The Glaciarium farce is in full swing. “ Popu-
lar prices every evening ” are advertised, inferring
unpopular ones in the afternoon. The afternoons
are given up to the Superiah People, who consider
it bad form to address strangers even to the extent
of apologising for having skated over their pros-
trate bodies. And the two sets don’t intermingle
any. But since “popular prices ” were conferred
upon the folk who are so poor that they have
to work sometimes, nocturnal expeditions are
made by venturous parties from Toorak, and other
noble neighborhoods. Under the guise of con-
descending curiosity, “ the hupper suckles ” rush
the chance of saving eighteenpence on their skat-
ing hours. They make a point of clinging to-
gether, and saying “ Isn’t it awful! ” very loudly;
and monopolising the instructors. It is curious
how superiority loves to save Is. 6d.
The Glassy Harem has imported a spic-and-
span new skating Professor, glittering with
London and Continental honors, and shod with
the latest skimming boots. Professor Lewis gave
special exhibitions on Wednesday and Saturday
nights, and, for a giddy hour, cut “ double threes ”
and “ brackets,” and “counters,” and unclassified
whirly-whirls that bulged the eyes of frozen on-
lookers.
Mr. and Mrs. Kubelik were “ received ” by the
Petersons and the University musical folk on a
chilly grey Thursday afternoon. The event befell
in the Conservatorium Hall, which once was the
Museum. The deceased bones, of the whale, which
reside there as an evidence of the awful size to
which Death can attain, added to the frigidity of
the proceedings, and the coldness was not lessened
by the lecture-room array of chairs, whereon blue-
nosed guests sat rigidly, and listened to the blow-
ing of the wind through the earthly tenement of
mysticetus. A semicircle of carpet and compara-
tive comfort held some Maddens, Wrixons, and
Bent patrons of music. Kubelik and his adorable
wife were buried in deep chairs, and listened
to some fiddling and some quartette singing, and
received the bob and scrape of an army of chilled
white-clad choir angels. Professor Peterson
indulged in a comprehensive speech. He made
a good text of the “normal tone” brasses that
shone in their new glory on a table near by. He
hurled at Kubelik the facts that the Butt-Rum -
fords had contributed a cheque ; that there had
been a corpulent (almost bloated) donation from
Melba; and that it had been backed-up by a
golden heap from the Government. “We only
need £3O more,” he asserted, forcibly and suavely,
like a revivalist preacher before Collection. Then
he added, with remarkable forethought, that it
would greatly please the Conservatorium to call
theset “ the Kubelik instruments.” The brilliant
little man sat with a humorous glint in his green-
grey eyes, and felt anxiously for his church
thruppence.
Mrs. Kubelik looked like a fairy-tale princess—
the kind of princess who rides through the forests
in a flowing velvet tailor-made, with a wide-
plumed hat that is never wind-blown. The lady’s
auburn hair shone against the green velvet that
fitted her figure like a habit, and she smiled like a
gazelle through a large-dotted veil.
There wasn’t a humorous item on the pro-
gramme of Kubelik’s first Melbourne concert ;
still the rest of the audience got fun out of watch-
ing the rival Conservatoriums. The small Albert-
street battalion assembled in the south balcony ;
the University squad, GO strong, including the
complete teaching staff, made a demonstration in
the middle of the hall. The two ladies assisting
Jan were Albert-street graduates, and the bursts
of silence with which their efforts were received
by the other clan contrasted vividly with the
herculean endeavor of Albert-street to make a
tornado of applause. These musicians are very
fond of one another !
An interesting little episode graced the concert.
That charming old lady, Mrs. Boema, a one-time
operatic star, made one of her rare appearances,
and presented her young compatriot with a laurel
wreath, to which were attached the Bohemian
colors. She spoke a few words of welcome in
Kub.’s native tongue, he gave a pleased start of
surprise, made a delighted reply, and the lady
glode quietly back to her seat. It takes the artist
to accomplish such a graceful little scene with per-
fect ease and effect.
The engagement flutters out of the “ Raheen ”
Wrixons’ only daughter May. The maid wanders
"about (in Melbourne’s most up-to-date motor,
with green fixings) “ doing good.” She carries a
basket like Red Riding-hood, wears smooth hair
and the meek expression of a last-century-
novelette’s heroine, and keeps grateful Old
Emigrants in knitted mufflers and wincey petti-
coats. The fortunate man of her choice is a
Queenscliff clergyman, the Rev. Smith Mcßain,
son of the late James Mcßain, M.L.C.
Kubelik’s brief remark after student Bennett’s
violin playing, at the Peterson reception, meant
one big pat on the shoulder for Alberto Zelman.
“ I see you have a good school here,” said Kubelik.
Bertie Zelman taught young Bennett all he
knows of fiddle playing. Zelman, in turn, got
his training from Curtis. Little Zelman is the
most finished violinist we have in Melbourne, and
a modest man withal.
Kubelik, playing on Thursday and Saturday
nights, wakened Melbourne to enthusiasm. The
artist brings the much-studied and varied compli-
cations of Art to a subtle point of perfection.
With his powers, no wonder the artist inserts
many showy, bravura works in his programmes.
Works with positively freakish bowing and
fingering are as easy to Kubelik as falling off a
tree, and he doesn’t break his neck when he gets
down off the lofty pinnacle of Sound. At some
fantastic and unearthly passages the electrified
audiences sit up rigidly with one accord, and their
eyes bulge with one bulge, and the more artistic
they are, the more they bulge. Kubelik answers
this always with a quiet grey-green glint of a
smile in his eyes. Otherwise his face scowls
grimly.
In Friday’s programme was Lalo’s Spanish
Symphonic. The third movement was as fascinat-
ing as a tiger’s eyes. Beethoven’s Romance in
G or S, or something, was grandly classical, and
calls for all play and no fireworks. Bach’s Pre-
ludium was a marvel of classical dexterity. A
Concerto of Paganini’s made the house see stars.
Kubelik is a man of moods, and his violin (a
part of himself) shares them. All through
Friday’s programme a spirit of merry devilry
played with the bow. At Saturday’s concert the
brightest music seemed enveloped with weird
melancholy, and the final encore, Saint
Saens’ Swan Song, wailed out with the
brooding sadness of a weeping saint. The
Havanaise had all the quaint varied moodi-
ness of a Master improvising. Chief interest
centred round Sinding’s Concerto in A Minor, a
work previously unknown here. Kubelik’s bow
turned it into a marvel of execution, but it has
little real beauty or classic merit, except in the
daintiness of its Rondo. Kubelik plays some
mote on Monday night, also on June 10.
An amateur performance of “Pygmalion and
Galatea,” at Her Majesty’s Theatre, attracted an
amazing house on Saturday afternoon. The object
was to provide surgical instruments for the new
operating theatre at the Alfred Hospital (why
didn’t they play “The Physician” under those
conditions?). At the close of the performance,
the Chief Justice, starring in the centre circle,
announced that even more money had been taken
than was required, and an applauding house did
not ask any of its shekels back, though it had per-
force to watch the gyrations of a short, stout Galatea,
who coquetted kittenishly with the beauteous Pyg-
malion. Burgoyne-de-Beere-Harris Pygmalion
did good work, with little trace of the amateur,
and his short Grecian tunic revealed legs worthy
of Julius Superbus himself. Claude Hall, as
Chrysos, put a thin, nasal twang into his words,
and was so overburdened with classic drapery
that he suggested a thin-legged Yankee at the
court of King, Arthur mixed up with an amateur
Nero. Miss Ruby Moore was a pretty
little natural Myrine, making soft love to
bearded O’Hara-son, Leucippe. Mrs. Minister-
for-Lands Mackey, in an assertive red wig,
strode the stage like an Amazon as Chrysos’ wife.
Carmen Pinschof, in a perfect Grecian robe of
colors melted out of amethysts, made the stage a
happy ground of posing as Mrs. Pygmalion. She
looked prettiness itself, and proclaimed, in a thin
Society tinkle, “ I am only Love —or Hate.”
The Talbot lady, melting her frigidity in warm
wine color, was in the front row. The Leslie
maiden, just returned, muffled herself in a coat
that had robbed a thousand soft grey squirrels.
Quite a parliamentary “bouquet” surrounded
them. Curly-haired Keating, with Mrs. Keating
in soft, mousy-color velvet; Mrs. Deakin in brown
from auburn hair to tan toe; Bent, apeing
Chrysos as Patron of the Arts, and daughter Mrs.
Bleasby ; the Wrixon lady in grey, and the
Mayoress in brown—they were all there.
Brassy noises issue weirdly from every suburban
hall, and uniformed figures with huge, uncouth,
bagged mysteries flit about in daylight and dusk.
The heavens seem to have rained brass bands. It
is the local talent rehearsing, that it may blow a
fitting reception to the Artillery Band, of
Newcastle-on-Tyne, which band, by all accounts,
knocks the popular “ Besses ” headlong into the
big drum.
Bertie Zelman and Hal Elvins are capable bul-
warks upholding a song recital this week by Miss
Constance Browne. Miss Browne —with an E—
warbles in Glen’s cosy hall.
From “ Rosna,” who hangs up her hat in the
halls of Adelaide :
There has just died in Adelaide, at the age of 50, Major
Hay, son of the late Alexander of that ilk, well-known in
South Oss since the dark ages. Deceased was an LL.B.
and 8.A., and sundry other learned things, of Cambridge,
and was called to the British, and afterwards to the
S. Australian Bar. He was a military enthusiast, and
while he was Master of the Hunt Club he formed the
members into a cavalry company, and persuaded them
to scout up and down the coast, looking for enemies and
dead sea-serpents. Major Hay’s first wife was a Miss
Stirling ; his second, who survives him, is the daughter
of Colonel Stevenson Hamilton, one of Edward Vll.’s
equerries. A half-brother of deceased is the author
of that fine novel, “ Herridge, of Reality Swamp,” re-
cently mentioned in The Lone Hand.
The Hays were a somewhat autocratic clan. It is
alleged that if the old original Alexander entered a
crowded car he’d seek out some nieek-looking man who
had a seat, beckon him mysteriously out to the back
platform as if about to tell him that a fortune had been
bequeathed to him, and then calmly walk in and take his
place without a word. And he did it as a mediaeval
emperor might accept a bun from a serf.
Adelaide expects to be in the throes of a wild time all
this week. The inter-State’Varsity clans have descended
on us, and we propose to pretend that we are quite a
young town again, and are still dwelling in caves, and
cooking our own wombat. Added to all the other enter-
tainments that are being heaped on the visitors. Bland
Holt is going to arrange an evening at the Theatre Royal
in their honor, and we are going to make it a great occa-
sion, even if we pawn our spare clothes.
News has just arrived that our singing damsel, Ethel
Hantke, has been made an Associate of the Royal Aca-
demy of Music, and may now trail A.R.A.M. after her
name. Miss Hantke still lingers here, though she has the
offer of various engagements that might be calculated to
lure her back to Peckham Rye and East Ham.
Adelaide School of Design broke into a private view
and exhibition last week, and much of the population
went along to be regaled by' a beauteous assortment of
carving, needlecraft, leather and copper-work, flower
studies, and a weird array' of portraits. The portraiture
is alway's the weakest section of the School of Design
work, because the students have such a mysterious fond-
ness for depicting green or impossible complexioned per-
sons. There was a collection of hand-painted china cal-
culated to make any art lover pallid with envy —among
other things a dessert service, decorated with Australian
wild flowers, belonging to Mrs. Frank Downer. One of
the Bakewell damsels had a gorgeous carved chest on
view, and there was a four-fold screen beautifully chiselled
in an apple design by the John Downer dame, and bearing
the motto, “ What is worth having is worth sharing.” I
fail to see where the axiom comes in. The whole screen
was worth having, but half a screen is of very little use
to anybody.
The Jewish Women’s Guild annual ball is timed to
happen, at the North Adelaide Institute, this week, and
the May'or and Mayoress, and sundry other dignitaries,
will lend the illumination of their countenances to assist
an excellent organisation that does a heap of good,
regardless of sects and creeds.
The decorations for the University ball on Friday were
very gorgeous things. Scarlet poppies—millions of them
—were festooned with fern around the walls and in a
network overhead. Oars (some of them battered and
worn with much gallant waterfare) were crossed in each
window, and 769 more poppies were banked around
them. The stage was an oasis of palms and easy-chairs,
the front being heaped up with more poppies. The
c.ommittee folk, who provided those 5,678,910 poppies,
must have had a strenuous time of it. There were
four sitting-out rooms, each garbed in a different vegeta-
tion color-scheme, and the vestibules were given over to
the cool drink that cheers, and the coffeei that does not
make one say' he will fail to go home till after daylight.
Seventeen frilly little budlets marched sedately through
the debutantes’ set, but, contrary to the usual rule at
’Varsity entertainments, there was a large surplus of girl,
so some of them had to join the mural decorations.
The vice-regal folk came along at 9 o’clock, with
Miss Clowes and an aide, and all the committee
bowed and scraped to them, and wandered through a
vice-regal set. Lady Le Hunte wore a pretty' sequined
black frock, and Miss Clowes a rich cream be-trained
satin with spangled passementerie trimming. The Way
dame sported a fine black net over white glac6, with
fetching geraniums sewn at intervals on the net, and sur-
rounded by sequined leaves. Mrs. Herbert Rvmill was
in cerise net over silk ; but quite the most striking gar-
ment was adorned by- Miss Billiet. It ' was ' deep
scarlet sequined net over satin, unrelieved by'
any touch of white. Another beauteous raiment
was worn by one of the pretty Fotheringham
damsels. It was palest pink spangled chiffon of glac6,
trimmed with gold sequined passementerie. More super-
fine chiffons were worn by Mrs. Hayward, who was on the
strenuous committee aforementioned, and Mrs. Charlie
Edmunds, a recent bride. Professor Darnley Naylor and
his tall consort viewed the proceedings, and the Butlers
had a graceful daughter coming out.
Adelaide had a glimpse of a new kind of church service
last week. The City of Churches does not deal much in
strange religions, though it goes in solidly' for those it
knows all about, but the visit of the Rev. Seraphim from
Sydney gave a chance to the dozen local followers of the
Greek Church, who mostly have names ending in
“ poulos.” The service was held, with great appropriate-
ness, over a fish-shop.
Senator Symon has two sons in England. One is absorb-
ing' law at Oxford ; the other has just entered Osborne
House, Isle of Wight, to be developed into a “ boy of the
bulldog breed.” along with the eldest of the Duke of York
youngsters. Also several of the Senator’s daughters are
on the Continent acquiring foreign languages.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“Tinker T.”: A correspondent (B
14/5/’08) asks about Thomas Ugly, after who
Tom Ugly’s Point, near Sydney, was named, h*
was one of three very old inhabitants of George*
River—Dirty Dick, Snaky Joe. and Tom TIV
were the trio. They were all fishermen an d
appropriately named. My dad knew them over
6° years ago. Tom was a big, powerful mat, and
had his dwelling on the point which bear's h
name. He died there, and was buried near th
punt. I fail to see why his memory should of
wiped out.
J ust-disbarred Thomas Sutherst, of Eng-
land, is a type of financier the N.S.W. Deform
party would delight to honor. In him the lion of
a hearty optimism in regard to the meeting 0 f
future liabilities reposed amiably beside the laml
of total insolvency. He was an undischarged
bankrupt; and he hankered to marry his daughter
to an eccentric Marquis. Marquises—even thoueh
they be eccentric—run high in Hingland. Towns
hend, the Marquis for whom Sutherst was bid
ding, worked out at £2OOO per annum and £27 000
down. Out of the depths of his stone-brokeness
Sutherst stepped briskly forward with the money
(or rather the promise of it), and secured his
Marquis. The British Bar, as represented by a
squad of its Benchers, pondered long and earnestly
(for two years, to be exact) on Sutherst’s finance
and then decided it was bad ; wherefore Thomas
has been warned off the Inner Temple turf for life


A Large Reduction in Prices '^^ !s
Enables the Motorist to exercise
a Double Economy
Firstly. —By using the Celebrated
uare
which are specially adapted to Australian Road
Conditions, a great Saving is made.
Secondly— By taking advantage of this
Reduction in Price and
purchasing Continentals at
the lower rate that now
prevails, the Tyre
Bill is
Minimised.
QUALITY
as
Ever
Before
WRITE FOR BOOKLET
GIVING FULL PARTICULARS
WE POST IT FREE
ON REQUEST
The Continental C. & G. Rubber Co.
46-48 Market Street, Melbourne.
65 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
220 Clarence Street, Sydney.
108 a King Street, Perth.
Patterson Street, Launceston.
PRICES
as
Never
Before


Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
~T
rrCTTtTnTC
xrcrrrr
IqCARBq
*7
a
«o
i
£RGt^
«*
I
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP.
6d. per Tablet.
I
WHAT IS CATARRH?
[CATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
' throat, and lungs: it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi*. Bronchitis. "Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings lor Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free -
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office. ss.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE
CO&UVEROIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Kemedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption and
all Lung complaints.
As a food and builder-up for both children
ana adults, MQLLER’S OIL is unequalled - .
BECAUSE: It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
A CUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS S/ILS ABOUT MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
Medical Review.—“ We have no hesitation in saving it i« quite unexcelled. It is
of a pale golden colour ; it is free front any trace of free acid ; it is easily assimilated,
and, what is most important, it does not cause eructations ok nausea.” •
Medical Press.—“ Messrs. Peter Moller, Ltd., by the introduction of their
Hydroxyl-Free Cod-Liver Oil. have placed in the hands of medical men a most excel-
lent and valuable preparation which is almost free from taste, limpid in character,
and, what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable ‘ repeatings ’ we
are so familiar with in certain brands.” ,
MOLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the only Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
. PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
A Moustache Guaranteed !
The certainty of CAPIELARINE as a moustache producer
gives us the confidence to make statements like that.
Through the whole time wc have been selling it—2s years
now—CAPILLAEINE has satisfied the most dubious by
producing a moustache.
In use, it is harmless aud not .noticeable.
Post Free to 1 A per
any address Av-r/vJ jar.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 25 Years.
Before
CONJURING TRICKS, PUZZLES, SURPRISE
AND JOKE NOVELTIES.
THE MAGIC
COINER.
VHU
V’v
S-
Something quite new, a real mystifier, and one of
the cleverest tricks ever invented. This little trick,
which can be carried in the vest pocket, never
fails to add. to an evening’s amusement, and is in-
dispensable to a conjurer. It represents the coinage
of threepenny pieces from plain pieces of metal,
and one, two, or three coins can be made at the
will of the operator. Pull directions enclosed.
Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
COMIC MAKE-UPS.
Consisting of a
pair of false eyes
(made of cellu-
loid and unbreak-
able), price Bft. ;
a set of false teeth
(made of celluloid
and unbreakable),
price 10ft. \ a
false nose (made
of canvas cloth,
covered with wax,
beautifully colored and made in every conceivable
shape), price 6d. ; and a false moustache, any color
and easilv attached to the nostrils, price 3ft. each ;
or the complete set 2/-, post free anywhere.
m ®
THE SPRAY WATER
PISTOL.
Will stop the most
vicious dog or man with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unescorted ladies, night-
watchmen, etc. Has more effect on beggars and
tramps than a watchdog. It creates great amuse-
ment for young and old, and is one of the most
popular joke novelties ever placed on the Australian
market. Reloading unlimited, length 5 inches,
nickel-plated and nicely ornamented. Price 7,t>
post free to any part of the world.
magic bedelia balls.
Very novel and surprising.
You squeeze the ball and out
pops the legs, as shown, in
an amazingly life-like manner.
On releasing the pressure the
legs at once disappear. One
of the most comical novelties
to be found in our varied
stock, and affords no end of
of amusement for old and
young. Price //■, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Illustrated
Catalogue—just published.
Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Strekt, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address : Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
Posted all over Australia
for Is. per bottle, or four
bottles for 3s. 6d., direct
from the sole manufac-
turers—
INFLUENZA
Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Quinsy, &c.,
instantly Believed and Speedily Cured by
MENTHOLINE.
CATCH
ECKERSLEY’S
MENTHOLINE
And you won’t catch COLD.
All Chomioto and I * bottle
Invaluable
for
Chilblains
and
Frost-bite.
Free sample
bottle on re-
ceipt of 2d.
postage stamp.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne
The Inky Way.
“ Comments, propelled by Grant Hervey,” is now the
headline on Melbourne’s newest weekly, it is being pro-
pelled pretty fast, too, and with a heap of vigor.
The clever comp, is a sticker when he gets into a good
stiddy job. Charles Melton, for many years fore-
man in Brisbane Courier’s composing room, has just
completed 50 years’ continuous service with the co.—
which speaks fairly well for the co., and very well for the
comp. Mr. Melton is now attached to the literary side
of the firm’s journals. The Courier seems to be an ad-
hesive sort of paper altogether, as 27 membersof the staff
have been sticking for 21 years and upwards, and 17 of
the infants aggregate a service of 459 years.
“ Melb.” : Another No. 1, Vol. I. Don’t forget the
Vol. I ; it is as suggestive as the term “ Periodical,” or
“ Permanent Evanescent Building Society.” This time
the venture is Australian Golf. A history is given.
James Graham, afterwards M.L.C., was secretary of a
golf club as far back as 1847, and the club’s old sticks are
worshipped as a Joss in the premises of the present golf
institution. The old golfers played round the Flagstaff
West Melbourne, and the Swamp. The editor of Golf
tells with bated breath and awesome reverence how the
existing club obtained its title of “ Ko.yai” through the
direct intervention of Governor Hopetoun with Queen
Victoria. Without Her Majesty’s gracious and tremendous
sanction the golfers would doubtless have been consigned
to the deepest donjon ’neath the castle moat. This
club was formed in 1891 by Knox of the Hhatt (plain h-a-t
doesn't express it), just after his return from England.
Early members included Finlayson, Strachan, Argus
Macitinnon, Brentnall, and Justice Hodges. Softgoods-
man Bruce, a very busy man in the concern, joined later.
Then came a circular signed by W. J. Clarke, dreary
James Macßain, Bruce and Knox, calling a meeting at
Scott’s. This eventuated in 100 gentlemen planking down
15 guineas each, and the affair went with a bang and a
roar and two howls and half a howl. M. H. Davies, then
at his zenith, and apparently owning pretty well half the
land round Melbourne, furnished the Caulfield links.
Caulfield became smothered by the jerry and other
builder. The present links at Sandringham were bought.
Here the club has expanded, and expended altogether
£15,000, including purchase of land and the putting up of
sumptuous buildings and appurtenances. Ladies were
first admitted in 1893. There are nearly' 200 lady players,
or lad.v members. Also there are nearly 800 lady golfers in
Victoria, and they have the ladies’ golf union. Golf says
there are tens of thousands of players in Australia, with
a large increase every season. Also it alleges that en-
thusiasm is spreading.
* * + *
“Mate”: “ Parkside ” (“ Inky Way,” B. 6/2/’08) errs
somewhat re C. Arthur Pearson, the man who was allegedly
going to wake up the Times. He is not responsible for
Answers. Answers was the first of the Harmsworth
atrocities, and led ultimately to the Daily Mail and a
peerage. On leaving Newnes, Pearson started Pearson’s
Weekly. The new paper made good with a missing word
competition. Competitors sent in the missing word, on
a coupon cut from the paper, and a postal order for Is.
The profits were divided amongst the winners, except a
percentage that went to a Fresh Air Fund for sending
slum kiddies for a day in the country. The craze took
among the same sort of people as lately went Limericking,
and the day after publication it was impossible to buy a
copy' of the paper—with the coupon—for love or money.
Finally', Pearson took to publishing a mid-week edition
containing practically nothing but the missing-word
coupon and the advertisements. Then the police inter-
vened, pronounced the business a lottery, and ruined a
most profitable game.
* * * *
Brisbane Daily Mail hasn’t made much material or in-
tellectual progress since its desperate directors switched
on a “democratic ” policy. It is the common opinion
that the proprietors of the paper are still rank reaction-
aries, and that the change of tactics was made merely to
try and save the property from destruction. The literary
staff is poorly paid, and an air of depression hangs over
the Waily Tale. It has worn much the same air since it
started as a blue-blooded Boodle organ in 1903. That
was when it threw away its chance. It might have been
another Age, both in cash and influence. Now it isn’t
anything in particular.
The Japan Times is a humorous paper, published in
Tokio. Its humor is mostly unconscious, but it is there.
It recently printed: “ Our business class as a whole is
still governed largely by the principles of humanitarian
morality- The disadvantage is obvious if they are to
take active part in the commerce of the world. They
should make every effort to cultivate the principles which
the heartless commercial morality of the West dictates.”
ONE GRIAT MAN WRITES TO SOME OTHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir,—l read with grim satisfaction your leading article
pointing out how the Senate had failed to achieve its high
destiny as the guardian of State rights.
On several occasions I have addressed the Premiers of
this State regarding the Federal capital, State debts,
transferred properties, etc., sometimes not even receiving
the courtesy of an acknowledgment.
On the other hand, I have, with reasonable frequency,
addressed myself to the Premiers of this State regarding
matters in which I deemed State interests involved.
The ineffective character of one of the two communica-
tions addressed to me by Premier Carruthers is sufficiently
shown by my reply.
“ The Senate, August 16, 1906.
“ Lands Acquisition Bill.
“ Sir,—l am in receipt of a circular sent in your name
covering copy of a minute by the New South Wales
Attorney-General upon the ‘Eminent Domain Bill. ” -
Slabs from Senator Lieut.-Colonel John Cash Neild’s
latest letter to Sydney Telegraph.
Said he, with deep, grim belly-laugh :
“ I’ll write me to the Telegraph !
“ Once borak it would poke at me,
And scoff and sneer and joke at me.
“ Its conduct in the Waine affair
Once made me. curse and tear my hair.
“ Its comments were sardonical —
Its attitude ironical.
“ But I will be magnanimous,
And show I bear no animus.
“ I read of ‘ destiny’ and ‘ rights,’
And Wade, and Bent and other wights ;
“ ’Twas in your leading article—
-1 read it, every particle !
“ Nor marvelled why you said it, or
Implied it, Mister Editor.
“ That article was thunderful;
Your language, sir, was wonderful!
“ I memorised ; I quoted it;
I carefully connoted it!
“ Your treatment of each question, sir,
Chimed with my own suggestion, sirl
“ I sympathised ; I felt for you ;
I thought my heart would melt for you.
“I said : ‘ He surely will not fail
To listen to a simple tale?’
“ Myself have penned a line or two,
And I sing in the minor, too ;
“ And I have sent a Cabinet,
A letter with a stab in it —
“ Yea, writings full of piquancy,
With reasonable frequency.
“ I wrote of debts, and sites, and rights,
And Moses and the Jebusites ;
“ My letters (there were eighty-seven)
Touched every subject under Heaven.
“ In silent agony I wrote,
And bitter tears fell on each note ;
“ I dropped them screeds from east and west,
Beseeching them to bite their best ;
n I pleaded ; I cajoled ; I curst;
I called on them to sting their worst;
“ I shrieked, ‘Arise ! wipe out this stain —
This Bill of Eminent Domain I ’
“No answer came —their attitude
Was really very, very rude.
“ I sat down in my uniform,
And wrote, ‘ Beware the coming storm 1 ’
“No answer still ! I then appealed
(And not in vain) to JOHN CASH NEILD.
“ That noble man, above mere pelf,
Sat down and answered me himself.”
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Two Hundred and
Reasons.
There are two hundred and sixteen reasons why you, if you are about
to purchase a piano, should obtain a Beale Piano.
Look at the four illustrations herewith. Start with No. 1.
You note those rows of holes in the wooden wrest-plank of the imported
piano. When the piano is “ strung ” each one of those holes is filled
by a “ wrest-pin ” —a piece of steel shaped not unlike a blunt nail
without a head.
Each pin is a quarter of an inch in diameter. Each is driven into its
hole with a hammer—it must fit tightly, so as to resist the pulling-
round of the wire which is wound round it.
Each pin is therefore like a wedge in the wrest-plank, and when the wire
(or “ string ”) is tightened up by turning the pin round, and thus
coiling the wire upon it, each pin becomes in addition a 'lever, because
of the pull of the wire.
There are two hundred and sixteen of these pins. The total strain
exercised upon them by all the wires when at concert pitch
amounts to nearly thirty tons.
Remember that they are only held in a wooden plank.
No one can suppose that a single wooden plank, driven full of wedges,
which are also levers, can for long withstand such a strain.
Especially in a climate like the Australian.
Whence —see Figure 2. Now compare Figure 2 with Figures 3 and 4.
There is the whole story.
In the Beale Pianos those two hundred and sixteen pins are contained
entirely in solid iron.
They will withstand indefinitely any strain that may be put upon them.
Fig. I—lnterior view of an imported piano, showing the relation of the
frame to the wrest-plank. The wrest-piris and strings have been re-
moved so as to show the parts more clearly.
Fig. 2 —A nearer view of the wooden wrest-plank of the piano shown in
Fig. 1. The first layer of the wrest-plank has been removed. Note how
the timber has split under the strain of the wires. This is an average
wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor worse than, is usually found in
imported pianos. All pianos with wooden wrest-planks are, of course,
subject to the above fault, which cannot be remedied except at great
expense.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 3. —The Beale-Vadei
Patent Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
and the end of the wrest-
planlc cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
There are other advantages obtained by the use of our
patent iron wrest-plate, notably, a much improved
tonal quality, free from all metallic element.
We shall be glad to send you further particulars if
you will write, or call on us.
TEN THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED and SIXTEEN BEALE
AUSTRALIAN PIANOS have already been manufactured
in Australia. We have received many hundreds of
testimonials from users, expressing the utmost satisfaction.
The success of the Beale Pianos is such that competitors
attempt to hoodwink buyers by asserting that our Pianos
cannot be tuned. As will be seen from this advertisement,
the BEALE PIANOS are more easily tuned than any others,
and they will REMAIN in tune for very much longer periods.
WE GUARANTEE EVERY BEALE
AUSTRALIAN PIANO for 25 YEARS.
m
THE BEALE-VADER
: PATtNT.
Fig. '4. —A nearer view
of the Beale-Vader frame
shown in Fig. 3. Note
the wrest-pins and ten-
sion-screws contained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can he
adjusted to ANY ten-
sion, tight, medium,
or loose, by means of
the tension screws at
the back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
strings, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
WITHOUT TOUCH-
ING THE TENSION
SCREWS. Our Pianos
are tuned in the ordinary
way, by one man only,
from the front only.
Be sure to note this, and
when you go to compare
our pianos with the im-
ported you will know
what to think if you are
told otherwise by mi-
scrupulous competitors.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A. ; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind. Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES ,
West Australian Agrents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mcuatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., RELFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
No wonder the public is demanding more super-
vision over motor cars. There are now over 1000 of these
private Juggernauts running in N.S.W. The average
value of the brutes is about £7OO, and as it is expected
that prices will fall considerably before long, the number
will probably soar upwards. It is pleasing to learn that
more and more parts of the cars are being con-
structed locally, and of local materials. At first
the industry was merely the fitting together of
imported parts, but of late Australian wood and
leather are being used in the construction of the
bodies. The variety of cars is legion. Writer rubbed his
eyes, one day' recently', in King-street, Sydney, when there
ambled along what was to all purposes a motor perambu-
lator, driven by an engine about the size of a soup-plate
stuck on a bar’at the back. But, no matter how different
they look, they all smell the same, and all seem to be
tarred with the same brand of indifference to the common
bloke on foot. Another weird apparition is a long low
frame, with two seats stuck in the middle of it, and
carrying its engine on its tail-board, so that the man
behind gets all the odor to himself.
* * * *
N.S.W. mountain roads are now said to be abso-
lutely unsafe owing to the reckless drivers of automobiles.
One newspaper correspondent tells how he twice nar-
rowly escaped death through madly-driven cars rushing
round sharp corners. Such a state of terror is said to
prevail that people who have timid horses will not venture
out with them, and women have practically had to give
up driving on the roads most frequented by motorists. Per-
haps all this is considerably exaggerated, hut it is evi-
dently up to the Automobile Club to use its influence
to suppress reckless and furious driving on country
roads, especially' mountain ones, by' instigating a few
prosecutions. Unless something is done motorists will he
shot at sight. A fool driver who goes hurtling at
20 miles an hour along a dangerous road, with a cliff on
one side and a precipice on the other, ought to be shot
like any other ruffian who runs amok.
* * * *
After a great struggle, Melbourne motorist 11.
B. James got his Talbot car and three lady passengers
away from theKiandrasnow'drifts, and reached Melbourne
in safety. The place where James struck trouble is, it
must be remembered, nearer to Canberra than to Dalgety,
which probably accounts for the rough time that reckless
driver had. He speaks in glowing terms of the run
through the N.S.W. coastal districts, and is positive that
T. Bent should construct a decent road through his
section of the Australian Alps and Gippsland right down
to Melbourne. If this road were made, Bent could mote
right through to Sydney, and enjoy from start to finish
delightful scenery, which would probably' move him to
compose poetry-perhaps something of the “Jack Jolt”
description. On the N.S.W. side, the roads are good,
and form a startling comparison with Victorian section of
the old-time Sydney to Melbourne highway, which
has been allow’ed to degenerate into a horror beside which
the jabberwock pales into insignificance, and the Dweller
of the Threshold was a tame pet.
In Sydney, on Saturday, the Rugby Union
once more assumed its ancient position as the beam in
the public eye, and quite eclipsed the League matches.
It W'as a certainty that when the sour and embittered
Glebe crowd met the hitherto unbeaten University whirl-
wind, there would be something worth seeing, and there
was. No less than 18,000 people swarmed into the damp,
uncomfortable University Oval to see the struggle, in which
the motto of both sides was “Jump on him that falls.” The
University'men kicked off with the wind against them,
but this was counterbalanced by' Glebe having the sun in
its eyes. Instead of returning, the Glebe charged right
for the line, and in two minutes University was fighting
for its life, with the goal likely to go at any moment.
It cleared the line with a free kick. But Glebe found
the touch line within striking distance. Glebe tried to
let loose a passing charge, but University champion
Bullock took the leather and carried it at his toe far up
the field. Back came the blood-red Glebes, forcing it out
at the same old spot, and the backs trooped up to take
the pass out and cut in for the goal. But the Uni. full back
sent it soaring over their heads towards the centre, where
the pack followed at giddy speed. A ferocious struggle
between the forwards, and then University was once more
hurled back, and Glebe was going full speed straight for
the goal. Again the Uni. full-back checked the rush,
this time with a mark. Shortly afterwards, University
had a shot at goal from a mark and missed, and back
came the Glebe forwards. Both teams were gasping, and
the ball going out gave a welcome breathing space. Then
Uni. began to use the touch line, and reached the Glebe
25, where, from a wild scramble, a Uni. man reached the
Glebe line, only to be pulled down. From a five yards
scrum Glebe swept down on the Uni. line, where the full-
back saved the situation by promptly forcing. But Glebe
came again with a 14-man rush, overwhelming the
Uni. team by sheer weight of meat, and rolling over the
line in a gory-tinted heap, it scored at last. The points
were added.
The pace had been too fast to last. So done up
were the men that the scrimmages collapsed, the play'ers
falling down on top of one another. Both sides went
slow, recovering their wind, and then Glebe broke away
with a four-man pass and scored again, but it was dis-
allowed. Thence right till half-time University was on
the defensive, and saved brilliantly, so that when the
whistle blew Glebe was leading by only five to nil. The
second half opened with two beautiful dribbling rushes by
the Glebe forwards which, when close enough, were con-
verted into passing charges. Both succeeded, but only
one was converted. It was now apparent that University
was overmatched. Right through it had been on the de-
fensive, and now it started to go to pieces. But it
rallied, and a brilliant one-man charge by .1. \V. Smith
beat all the Glebe backs, and resulted in a goal. This
cheered the fainting University, and it played its best,
forcing Glebe back on its own line where a sudden field
goal was snapped. This lifted the score to nine to 13.
The light failed, and the whistle blew without any addi-
tion to either score, leaving Glebe victors.
• * * *
Another Homeric struggle was waged at the
Cricket Ground, where South Sydney flattened out the
redoubtable Eastern Suburbs by 16 to nine, in a game in
which the youthful Corbett showed signs of developing
into another Messenger. His head work was excellent,
his speed was great, and he was full of resource. Six
thousand looked on, and cheered a sparkling game, in
which the difference in the scores was far in excess
of the difference in the play. The wrecking
of North Sydney by Newtown was an uninterest-
ing display, although the figures were 18 to five.
Some surprise was created by the defeat of Balmain by
Sydney, at Rushcutters Bay, where Sydney scored nine
to the other crowd’s five. Away at Brighton, St. George,
after struggling hard, scored seven points while Manly
made none. But all the labor was wasted through the
referee declaring that the scrap was no match, owing to
the way the spectators rushed on to the field to tell the
players how to do it.
* * * *
There is now no unbeaten team in the competi-
tion, which is headed by University, South Sydney and
Newtown, with 12 points each. Eastern Suburbs and
Glebe make the second row with 10 each, Sydney has
eight, St. George six, and the rest taper off down to
North Sydney with two, the result of a bye.
The League games in Sydney were, as far as
public interest were concerned, anything- from mud to
slush. The Maori team looked on at the Eastern and
Western Suburbs struggle, and noted the points of the
game for future reference. Play was, all round, open and
fast, but the public apparently stayed away with religious
fervor. Western Suburbs played up in an unexpected
manner, and put up a great struggle against the East,
although eventually beaten by nine points to eight. North
Sydney and Newcastle put up a hard game at Birchgrove,
but again the public was conspicuous by its absence.
Right to the finish it was an open game, but within
ten minutes of time North Sydney, by something
like a miraculous seizing of opportunity by the scalp,
scored three tries in almost as many minutes, and won
by 21 to nine. Glebe put in a pleasant afternoon execut-
ing various kinds of step-dances on the prostrate Cumber-
land team, the figures being 22 to seven. But the dancing
of Glebe was a mere circumstance to the fandango
which South Sydney executed on Newtown at Sydney
Agricultural Ground, where it scored 31 to three.
In the competition, Eastern Suburbs and Glebe
are the only unbeaten teams, and they run together with
10 points each. South has eight, Newcastle and North,
Sydney six each, and Balmain five. Newtown, Cumber-
land, and Western Suburbs are three, two, and a duck
respectively.
*****
Glebe heads the Soccer competition with nine
po nts, being the only unbeaten team on the list. Playing
against Garden Island on Saturday, it showed beautiful
combination, and played about the most perfect football
possible. How different the new Garden Island team is
from the old one can be guessed from the fact that this
almost perfect toe-balling of Glebe triumphed bj' three
goals to two only. The game was very fast, and had the
naval crowd been a bit quicker to take advantage of
opportunities, it might have ended the other way.
Ultimo and Pyrmont are second row in the procession
with eight points each, Ultimo having beaten Rozelle bv
two goals to one, while Pyrmont polished off Balmain
with three to nil. The new Northern Suburbs club
showed considerable improvement, but not enough to
hold its own against Western Suburbs, which won by
nine to one. This placed Western Suburbs in the third
rank, alongside Garden Island and Sydney, with six com-
petition points. Balmain has five, Rozelle two, and
Northern Suburbs none.
In the Australian League game Y.M.C.A. and
Redfern are still unbeaten, and head the list with 20
points each. Next week they will meet to see who g-ets
down. Newtown beat East Sydney, and thereby climbed
into the second row, where its victim keeps it company,
with 12 competition points. The shock that Redfern
administered to Balmain was awful, the figures being 77
to 33, while the downfall of Sydney before Y.M.C.A. was
even worse, the figures being 90 to 25.
As to Yic. football, the Argus arose on Friday
morning and remarked in a pained tone of voice that
there were scandals and rumors of scandals about the St.
Hilda club, and that the League should inquire into the
matter instanter. Wading among these shadowy rumors,
one grabs here and there a few with an aspect of sub-
stance about them. A St. Hilda committeeman, it is
said, backed his club against South, and won £3O ; there
was nothing heinous about this, but it was alleged
that two players immediately demanded a “cut”
out of the boodle ; also that the same man had
laid 5 to 2 on Saints against ’Varsity—and had
consequently gone down bump; further, that another
committeeman had won £23 on this latter game, by
backing ’Varsity, and had said he had certain Saintly
players “in the bag”—the same old troublesome bag.
When the committee questioned him, he admitted having
won a trifle on the Students —but denied the rest of the
yarn in toto. The trouble with St. Hilda and a few other
tgams is that some players get their bare expenses, others
are paid for time lost as well, while still others are pro-
vided by private club supporters with honor-
ariums large enough to maintain them in gentle-
manly ease. Hence arise jealousy', and individual as
opposed to concerted play'. The St. Hilda committee
perceived the folly' of this policy, and on Saturday it
“ stood down ” two of its best pla.yers—-one a man who
notoriously' lives on the game—for practising the Anti-
Sosh caper. But’ probably the chief reason for the alleged
rumors lies in the fact that few football “ supporters ”
have yet realised the strength of the’Varsity team, and
one or two others. Essendon’s name was Mud last .year,
but this season it has only lost one match—to the premiers.
As this paper forecasted, when ’Varsity lost its first game
to Essendon, it only w'anted practice to be a really strong
team. Now it is coming on. It beat Richmond,
it lost to ’Wood by a small margin, it beat Saintsj and on
Saturday it scored 9 goals 11 behinds to 12 goals 4 behinds
against the mighty South. It is, so far, a purely ama-
teur and wholly unselfish team, and that accounts for
much of its success. Naturally where expenses and
honorariums are distributed unevenly’ among the players,
there is jealousy and selfishness ; and when committee-
men are stupid enough to boast of their winnings there
are always plenty to assert that they “ squared ” some-
body.
Saturday’s games saw some strenuous play and
no surprises. With the two stars abovementioned
missing from its team, St. Hilda nevertheless held its own
throughout against Melbourne, which indulged in too
much handball, and, as far as kicking w'ent, showed form
the very reverse of its previous Saturday’s performance
against South, as the tally of 2 goals 13 behinds to
Saints’ 9 goals 12 behinds shows. “ Skinner’s hirelings ”
had digested the lesson given them by Melbourne, and
notched 12 goals 4 behinds while their Student opponents
scored only 9 goals 11 behinds. Carlton and the im-
proving ’Roy indulged in an unmannerly scramble
in which the ball often appeared quite a minor
consideration, the Blue-and-YVhites ultimately win-
ning by' 72 points to ’Roy’s 40. Geelong, coming
to town with the certain expectation of breaking
its run of defeats at Richmond’s expense, provided the
latter’s barrackers with a half-hour of solid joy. By smart
exchanges, open play and long, straight kicking, the sea-
siders got a 12-point lead, and held it steadily till the last
quarter. Then Richmond got something like a decent
system to work, and ran the bladder down the ground
time after time, adding 27 points to Geelong’s 9, and
running out winners by' 6 points—6s to 59—to the joy of
the blokes with the yellow-and-black cockades and
the Lizzies with the ditto rosettes. ’Wood and
Essendon furnished another strenuous battle, with
a couple of minor casualties to give a zest to the pro-
ceedings. The play throughout was so fast as to seem
incapable of lasting, the scores so close that a goal either
way meant victory ; and when the Collingwood men,
starting the last quarter with a three-point lead, kicked a
goal in the first smin., it looked as if they had got back
to their old form. But the swift men of the “ same old ”
were not beaten yet, and twice they ran the ball round
the wings and forced it through. A behind or two came
to either side, but, though the Magpies strove fiercely for
the goal that would have made all the difference, they
failed, and the bell rang, with ’Wood 9 goals 10 behinds,
’Don 10 goals 9 behinds showing on the board.
The feature of the Association games was the
uprearing of Footscra.y, which encountered the erst-
invincible Essendon, and piled up 21 points before the
others got started. The ’Dons, who, with five successive
wins to their credit, began to “kid” themselves they
were going through the season unbeaten, as their League
namesakes did in the early ’9o’4, bogged in like 17 devils
and half a devil and a small devil ; but ’Scray steadily'
battled along, always with a trifle in hand, and finished
up eight points to the g'ood—43 to 35. ’Town en-
countered Brunswick, and had things all its own way for
three quarters ; then the Brickmakers waded in to avert
the ignominy of a two-to-one defeat, and in the last
quarter notched 28 to ’Town’s little lone one point: but
another ounce or so was needed to turn the scale, and ’Town
finished seven points ahead—64 to 57. Brighton had an
afternoon out at Preston’s expense, with a score of 69 to
42 ; North totted up 47 points while Northcote was
making 30 ; and the lamentable Ports sustained their
sixth successive thrashing, this time from P’ran, by 48 to
34. Port has never recovered from the disqualification of
its ground last season : it seems to be lost in its new
atmosphere of pseudo-respectability', and to miss the old
accompaniment of language, palings, and bine metal.
During the week, the Ass. cautioned one player and sus-
pended another for eight weeks for punching an opponent
instead of the ball.
The downfall of the Australian League team at
Brisbane on Saturday, when Maoriland won by 24 to 12,
seems to have been due to the fact that the Maoriland
team contained more men of the Messenger type than the
Australian one did. The Maorilanders started with a big
wind in their favor, and made the most of it. But for
the fearsome energy of Messenger the day would have
ended in an awful rout, for the East Sydney star was the
whole team in himself and the little dogunder the waggon
as well. It was a polite, gentlemanly game in the first half,
when the Maorilanders with the wind in their favor were
galloping through Australian territory ; but in the
second half, when the wind was against the Blacks, and
the Australian team, having pulled itself together some-
what, was galloping a little on its own account, the Blacks
are said to have dealt out considerable quantities of stoush.
The opportunities missed by the Australian team were
legion, and calculated to make the barrackers weep. Even
in the second half, when the wind was lending valuable
assistance and the team had livened up, faulty handling
was so frequent as to practically lose the match.
Maorilander Wrigley was the star booter for that
afternoon, and scored six goals from seven shots,
kicked at all sorts of ridiculous angles. The Maori-
land team generally played a fine game, and the public
howled encouragement. Altogether the new game seems
to have caught on in Brisbane, although the fact that the
Leaguers have formed no clubs to keep up the interest by
playing weekly matches will be a big help to the Rugby
Union. Brisbane will have no more chances of seeing the
new game till July, when the All Maori team will be there
and will play a series of matches. The present intention
is to form ciubs for next season and run a regular com-
petition.
•* » * *
The Anglo-Welsh Rugby team in Maoriland is
having the usual treatment of English footballers in the
Isles. It has been defeated twice in three matches, and
it has had two of its best players knocked out, so that
they were unavailable after the first struggle—that
against YVairarapa. On Saturday last the team met Otago
on a ground that was admittedly heavy. And when the
Otagonian admits that his ground is heavy it means that
the soil holds the boots like fish glue. The Englishmen
put what was admittedly a weak team into the field, but
judging by the struggle it put up Maoriland will
not have a rosy time when the visitors have fully
recovered form and have a really strong field force.
Starting with the wind behind them, the English strove
desperately to make the pace, and pile up a margin of
points against the dreary time they were sure to experi-
ence in the second spell. But the defence was powerful,
and when the half time whistle blew the visitors were
leading by six to three only—which the captain reckoned
was insufficient. With the wind behind him, the Otago
captain let loose a series of charges, and was amazed to
find how deadly the British tackling was. His backs
carried the leather to the British line again and again,
only to be pulled down. It was a penalty goal by
which the Otago crowd levelled up the score, and then
the charging tactics were smothered by the prancing
Welshmen, who came dancing round the scrums, and fell
on the scrum halves so suddenly that they couldn’t get
the leather out. The British team was out of condition ;
still, so grimly did it struggle that only once did the
Otago team manage to breakthrough. It was enough ; it
made the score nine to six, and the exhausted British
had no hope of balancing things up. On the other hand,
the Otago men, in spite of the wind behind them, failed
to break the strangling line again, and the end came
with the scores still Otago nine, England and Wales six.
The All-Maori team wandering around Sydney
is a formidable-looking mass of brown brawn. There are
25 heaps of hard-looking meat, and they are controlled by
a full-blown chief, with three other fully-fledged ranga-
tiras under him. Tub Bulletin’s advice to the Australian
players is not to take this formidable appearance too
seriously. The Maori, writer knows from experience, is
not nearly so tough or hard as he looks. Like all other
brown races, he is soft in the fibre, and although he will
rage like the heathen in the first spell, he will feed out of
the hand in the second. In the first half just hold him.
Hang on to his hips, and half way between his hips
and his knees. But hang on. Use the weight for
all it is worth, for that winds him very
quickly. Tell the barrackers to shut up—right
up—for the more noise there is, regardless of where it
comes from, the more baresark is the Maori. Save all the
energy that is possible for the second spell, and when it
comes, charge the Maori fast and often. Fall on him,
give him no respite, and if possible have two or three
unusually fast men, and let the whole team feed those
fast men ; and, halfway through the second spell, the
chances are that the Maori will melt right away and curl
up altogether. A well-sustained attack in the first half
of the second spell will finish the Maori, and he can be
run over comfortably during the second half of the second
spell. He looks much more formidable than he really is.
If Wanganui Webb isn’t afraid of big Dick
Arnst, he has certainly acted as though he were anything
but anxious to meet liis lengthy compatriot. “ These are
the only terms on which Arnst can have a match ” are
the words with which he concludes an unheard-of demand
that £3OO shall be up on June 30, over five months before
the race, and the final deposit paid over on August 31,
over three months before the race. He also lays it down
as a hard and fast condition that both shall be ready to
start at 4 p in. sharp, and failure to be on t he starting line
at the stroke of the clock is to be reckoned as default and
involve loss of the race, stake, and title. Of course,
if Arnst were a moneyed man who could write
out a cheque for £5OO, it would be all very
well; but Arnst isn’t. He has to obtain a stake
from a number of backers, whereas Webb is probably in a
position to pay over his money from his own little banking
account, and if he isn’t he has the deep pocket of Brother
Tuck behind him. And the imposition of these drastic
terms means that it will be harder for Arnst to find the
money in the time. Of course Webb may regard it from
a purely business point, taking up the position that as
Arnst hasn’t £5OO of his own, he must see the bulk of the
money safely deposited before he starts to train, so that
in the event of Arnst failing to find the final deposit, he
(Webb) will not have wasted any time. It’s good business,
but it’s poor sport.
* * * *
Big Dick is not troubled with an overplus of
modesty. Recently he threw out his chest, and re-
marked confidently: “I won the greatest hike race on
earth, the Sydney Thousand, and you can tell cyclists to
plank all their dollars on me in this sculling champion-
ship ! ” Sounds all right, if he can live up to it, but con-
sidering he has not yet defeated any sculler of note a
more gentle demeanor would be wise. All the same, the
only reason he has not been either lifted into the lime-
light or biffed right out is that all the scullers have been
too scared to take him on. When he has had the oppor-
tunity he has done well, and out of seven handicaps he
has won four, arrived second once, fourth once, and
pulled himself clean out of the shell the other time. Not a
bad record.
Ichabqd ! While in Maoriland Arnst and Webb
are prepaying to battle for the championship of the
world, and whichever wins will have to defend the honor
from Whelch, of Akaroa—in Australia Thoroughgood and
Fogwell are talking about rowing for the championship of
Muddy Creek or somewhere adjacent. How have we
slumped!
At Huntingdon Harbor, in the U.S.A., on
August 1, the Wolselev-Siddeley boat will attempt what
it was specially created for. The boat’s mission, as every-
body knows, is to bring to England from the States the
Harmsworth trophy known as the British International
Cup, at present held by the Yankee, Commodore
Schroeder, who won it last year with his wonderful
boat Dixie. Having sold the Dixie, he is building a
special defender, 39ft. long, to be fitted with
200-h.p. engines. When the mail left, the boat
was ready for engine installation, and was ex-
pected to be much faster than the Dixie. Five Yankee
boats are competing for the honor of defendin'-
the Cup, but as the rules limit the representation 0 f each
country to three boats, an elimination race will be held
to decide which Bhall have the opportunity. The En
glish boat has averaged 34 miles an hour for a 31-tnife
run, and is known to have developed a speed of 35 m il es
an hour. The chances are all in favor of America, which
will be represented by three boats, while England relies
absolutely on the Wolseley-Siddeley.
* * * •*
N.S. W. Motor Boat Club has decided to restrict
racing to one-design boats. The club will adopt a design
and specify the type of engine, and restrict its racing to
that type of boat. To encourage the sport, the boats
will be small, and procurable for about £5O, and the
decision is expected to cause motor boat racing to flourish
like mushrooms on a wet morning.
The Sydney manager for the Dunlop Rubber
Co. has received permission from the League of Wheelmen
to run the Goulburn to Sydney road race on Saturday
September 19. Tiie distance is 132 miles, and the bid
Rubber Co., as usual, will provide the first and second
prices, the provisions, and all the other expenses. The
cycling trade will donate a fetv of the prizes, and the
League will provide the starters and checkers, and accept
the entries.
The Dunlop Road Race, from Warrnambool to
Melbourne, will probably eventuate on Saturday, Octo-
ber 3, although the Victorian League of Wheelmen has
not yet officially authorised the date. The promise is
that, last year’s record will he broken, and already appli-
cations for particulars and entry forms are pouring in on
the big Australian Rubber Co.
There is also talk of a road race from Sydney to
Melbourne, or ’totlier way about, to be held sometime
this winter under the management of the League of
Wheelmen. Some time ago Sherwood, of the Sydney
Dunlop house, who has had vast experience in organising
this class of contest, went into the matter, and calculated
that it would cost at least £5OO to do the tiling properlv,
as the immortal Jenkiris put it. Mr. Sherwood’s
idea was that the first prize should be £l5O, and then
there would be the feeding and accommodation ol 30 to
50 riders along the route. Any idea of riding right
through from one capital to the other would be out of
the question, for, although Teddy Pearson did it, we
don’t breed many of his sort ; the majority of the riders
would be ridden blind before they had done two-thirds of
the journey, and would probably retire from the road to the
hospital. So if the race does eventuate, the chances are
that it will tie divided into three sections—say, Sydney to
Yass, IS4 miles ; Yass to Albury, 186 miles ; and Albury to
Melbourne, 201 miles ; with a compulsory stop of eight,
hours at each halting place, each rider to start exactly
eight hours after arrival, and thus maintain his position
right through the contest.
* * * *
It looks as though H. D. Mclntosh had left his
attempt to save the track cycling sport until too late.
Tiie St. lvilda (Melbourne) track, which cost a pretty
figure to lay down, has been torn up and the materials
sold ; and now the Castlemaine track, which cost £6OO,
and where, a few years back, 20,000 people could be relied
upon for gate purposes, is to be also rooted out, the local
council having decided that track racing is as dead as the
boots of Herod.
» * * *
North Sydney is a very prolific cricket centre.
Four years ago, the northern side was so strong that the
Association lopped off Gordon and Manly, and gave them
places as grade teams. Now comes a desire from the
Mosman portion of the district to be also clipped off. In the
matter of players,Mosman (provided the Association agrees
to the request) will have a start with quite a host of the
“ stars ” of the team. North Sydney’s distinction in scoop-
ing all three grades in Sydney district cricket last season,
and the fact that there are plenty of players in the lower
grades who merit promotion, is a sufficient reason for the
granting of an extra district club. There are heaps of
playerh in the present grade clubs who don’t get an op-
portunity to show their grit; and that is bad for the
development of the new blood which is so badly needed
in Australian cricket.
* * * *
Hockey still steadily makes no headway what-
ever in Adelaide —except in one direction ; for some
reason, the game of thick sticks and hard knocks is there
considered a pastime suitable only for girls! The short-
skirted brigade plays it regularly and keenly. Probably
the male attitude of opposition is due to the rivalry or
lacrosse, that being the one sport in which S.A. takes the
lead of all Australia. The local athletes reckon that
lacrosse—as played in Australian, not modern Canadian,
style—has every good point of hockey, and some of its
own extra.
* * * *
Where British sport is getting to. London
Daily Mail hails a forthcoming struggle as “ one of the
greatest events in the annals of British sport.” And the
struggle lies entirely between persons bearing the fine old
British names of Padoubny, Hackenschmidt, and Zbysco.
* * * *
The club swinging lunacy continues in all its
hideous monotony ; Maoriland is staggering under the
affliction just at present. At Auckland, Tom Burijows
added 4 min. to his Wellington record of 62 hrs. 2 mm.
It would be a relief if someone, driven to desperation by
the incessant whirl, were to assault Tom’s record with a
violet margin of an hour or so.
Queensland Opposition leader Philp is a
person who keeps pretending to want to drop out
of things, but never drops out. He has offered to
relinquish the leadership, his seat, his socks, and
his soul if his party desire it. But he knows his
party, and there is no retirement and no sacrifice.
And Bob Philp has been the champion hanger-on
of Bananaland politics, having had a continuous
stretch of 12 years’ Ministerial pay.
AN ELDEELY LADY
Relates her Experiences of the Marvellous
Strength-giving and 8100d -enriching
Properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.
Mrs. Margaret Ferguson, of Euroa, writing
from North Williamstowii, Victoria, writes a*
follows : —“ lam now 77 years of age, and as one
who has very great faith in Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, lam only too pleased to give you an
account of my experience. For some years 1 was
a sufferer from liver complaint, which was in-
tensified after an attack of influenza. I had con-
gestion of the liver, catarrh of the stomach, was
severely troubled with constipation, stagnant
circulation, poorness of blood —which caused
eruptions in the skin —also great dizziness an
palpitation of the heart. Indeed, the slightes
effort seemed to upset me Of course, x took a
quantity of doctor’s medicines, and tried a
number of pills and physics, but obtained on J
temporary relief. A friend recommended ii-
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and after a few doses
I began to feel a great improvement, so I stuck to
them, and to-day I am in better health than i
have been for years. Indeed, I regard these pu s
as the sole source of my increased strength, an
the improved condition of my blood. T |iave
recommended Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Bn s
many friends and neighbors, and I am qtute sm e
that in every case they have been proved all
you claim for them. You may use this in anj
way vou desire, and I trust that many will rea
it, and be convinced of the efficacy of you
w'onderful remedy.”


KUGELMANN’S
mm
&
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid."
FR.EE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Fare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
m
r
<§>
3
ft
v.
3
T
For over Fifty years the
name “ ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day -for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
422 GEORGE STREET.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVE
WANTED for HUSIC STRINGS
(On Commission Only)
By Well-Known London Firm with Good
Australian Customers.
Trade can easily be worked with other Music lines.
J. P. GUIVIER & CO.,
4 Great Marlborough Street, LONDON, W.
Amusements.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 7.45.
Wednesday and Saturday Afternoons at 1.45.
EIGHTH WEEK, EIGHTH WEEK,
of J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Merry, Musical Pantomime,
HUMPTY HUMPT Y.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.50 SHARP.
ELECTRICAL SUCCESS of Pixley and Luders’s
Miliion-Laugliter-Voltage Musical Play,
THE PRINCti OE PILSEN.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
HERBERT FLEMMING’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY. COMPANY
in the Great London Success,
THE MUMMY and THE HUMMING
BIRD.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as Usual.
Matinee Every Wednesday at 2 p.m.
HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES —25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s,
-|-HE LYCEUM
THEATRE,
Y D N E Y.
p A L A CE
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), & ONE MORE NIGHT ONLY,
MR. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS.
A COMEDY COSTUME CONCERT CO.
(From London).
PRICES —45., 3s. 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
BRISBANE SEASON OPENS SATURDAY, JUNE 13.
Town hall, Sydney.
LAST TWO NIGHTS in the TOWN HALL,
as we go to THE PALACE THEATRE, Starting NEXT
SATURDAY, 2.3 O—AT THE MATINEE—2.3O.
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES “ The A »“ tof
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 1/6. Plan at Nicholson’s.
gYDNEY GLACIARIUM
The ICE SKATERS’ RENDEZVOUS
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
Morning, 10 to 12 ; Afternoon, 3 to 5 ; Evening, 8 to 10.30.
PRIVATE LESSONS BEFORE AND AFTER
MORNING AND AFTERNOON SESSIONS.
ADMISSION 2s. SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission, Morning and Afternoon only, Is.
CHlLDREN—Admission, Saturday Mornings only, 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE RIGOLETTO BROTHERS, Revolving Ladder
Experts. JOHN HIGGINS, Champion Jumper.
THE AHLBERGS, Comedy Acrobats & Hand Balancers.
THE DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
ALBERTO. Miss NAOMI TANNA.
Mr. MARSH LITTLE. THE TWO WESTONS.
THE SISTERS ALBERT. ARDO, The Human Frog.
Mr. FRED. BLUETT. LITTLE BABY WATSON.
PRICES—3s., 28. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
KAUFMANN TROUPE, Trick Cyclists.
WALTER WHYTE, Tenor.
J. R. LING, Mimetic Monoloquist.
CHARLES MILDARE, Whistler.
REGAN and RYAN, Eccentric Comedians.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
Plan at Allan’s. £2T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE THEATRICAL EVENT.
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
in Second Edition of
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By PAUL RUBENS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s. ;
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
EDWIN GEACH’S NEW DRAMATIC CO.
LURED TO LONDON.
Special Engagement ERNEST LEICESTER, Popular
London Actor.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Early Doors Od. extra.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
THE CENTURY'S GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE If T AhU
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at. Glen’s.
jpj E A L ICE SKATING.
THE MELBOURNE
GLACIARIUM
HEALTHIEST AND MOST DELIGHTFUL PASTIME.
Popular Prices Every Evening, Is.
SATURDAY MORNINGS, SCHOOL CHILDREN fid.
Missing: Friends.
MAYE, last heard of in New
' ’ South Wales about 20 years ago, or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with JOHN MAYE, Mildura, Victoria.
Hot or Cold Liquids remain
so in Thermos Bottles.
[THERMOS
V PATFrMT
PRICES—PINTS from 215.; QUARTS from 425.
Posted anywhere, Is. and Is. 6d. extra.
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists,
Military Men, Excursionists, etc. No need to
boil the “ billy.” Take your tea or other liquid
refreshment with you, and simply pour out
Hot or Cold as desired.
TNOS. WEBB & SONS,
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
tcj. g¥3
TOOTH’S
XXX ALE
IS
UNRIVALLED.
-s'
SO IS
AULD JOCK
WHISKY
TOOTH & CO., LTD..
Proprietors,
KENT BREWERY,
SYDNEY.
It is quite a long time now since N.S.W.’s
Joseph Carruthers declared he was going to do
things about the crimping evil at Newcastle, but
the things that Joseph was going to do are still
undone. In the days when jloseph did well to be
angry, the price of a sailor at Newcastle was £l.
Now crimping is so much brisker that the price
has gone up to £4. Some kind of a futile law was
passed, but the crimp poked a hole right through
it and breathed a whisky breath through the
orifice, and the crimping curse grows worse instead
of better.
Victorian pressmen, artistic and literary,
are hoping that “ Jack ” Buckley Castieau will
have a position in connection with the welcome
celebrations when the Uncle Sam fleet comes
this way—a position similar to the one he occu-
pied at the Commonwealth jamboree. To Casti-
eau (a writer himself) the fact that writers and
artists were accepted as citizens of some little con-
sequence at the Federal glorification was largely
due. J.B.C. has handled so many big official
functions that he now looms as the expert entre-
preneur of the Vic. Civil Service.
Judging from its fierce attacks on Bent,
the Age must have someone else ready to step
into his shoes as Victoria’s Premier. Probably it
is Swinburne. All Thomas’ numerous jobs are
raked up—the appointment of his Brighton con-
stituents as railway spies, of Taverner as Agent-
General, of Kirton as Ballarat Water chairman,
of Holden as Geelong Harbor Trust chairman ;
the finding of sinecures for Sinclair and for the
son of Levien, M.L. A. ; the useless buying of the
Thornbury brick paddock ; the unauthorised lend-
ing of public money (never recovered) to the Coal
Creek Co. ; the nursing of Langdon, M.L. A., to
keep him quiet; the nobbling of Mackinnon and
Peacock ; the sending of three supporters to the
Shepherd’s Bush Exhibition at public expense*;
and all the rest of the fearsome array of jobs. It
is all there, and all true. Only Bent’s moderate
honesty in using surpluses to get the State a little
bit out of debt enables him to stand against the
awful record. Evidently the Age thinks Swin-
burne won’t dare to be less thrifty than Bent; or
perhaps it is thinking of making the plunge that
both fear, yet see must be made —the leap for a
graduated land-tax.


FREE CARRIAGE TO THE COUNTRY.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, nickel
back, richly em-
bossed, long bristles,
5/6-
Extra Quality
Bristles, 8/6.
A Saving to You.
Our system of FREE CARRIAGE on all goods
to any part of Australasia means a big saving
to you.
No Matter Where Yon Live
Our up-to-date MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT
will serve you promptly and satisfactorily.
FREE CATALOGUE.
If you are interested in Watches, Clocks, Jew-
ellery, Silverplate, Leather, or Optical G-oods,
write for a copy to-day.
It’s Yotirs for tHe AsKing.
The exact illustrations takes away all uncer-
tainty from mail buying.
A. SAUNDERS.
TABLE CUTLERY, FINEST SHEFFIELD STEEL, ROUND OR SQUARE XYLONITE
HANDLES.
DESSERT
TABLE ..
JOSEPH RODGERS.
7/9, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6 £-doz.
B/9, 9/6, 10/6, 11/6 I-doz.
WINGFIELD ROWBOTHAM. Ivory Handles.
DESSERT 4/3, 5/9, 6/9, 7/9 J-doz. 15/ £-doz.
TABLE 4/9, 6/6, 7/6, 9/3 |-doz. 20/ 4-doz.
HARRISON BROS, and HOWSON.
DESSERT 6/6, 8/6, 9/6 J-doz.
TABLE 7/6, 9/6, 10/6 |-doz.
■
A. SAUNDKKS.
HAIR BRUSH,
Xylonite Back,
extra quality
Bristles,
o/6.
Other Styles,
7/6, 8/6, and 9/6,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gilt Bedroom CLOCK, richly orna-
mented case, first-class timekeeper,
height s£in.
8/6.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
MEAT CARVERS to Match, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6. Steels to match, 2/6 each.
Our Cutlery, which is of the finest Sheffield Steel,
will be found perfect in make, finish, and durability.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR-CASE, Seal leather,
green, black, or brown, pure
silver mounts,
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CUTLERY SET, comprising £-dozen Knives and
Forks, finest Sheffield steel, xylonite handles.
DESSERT, 15/- TABLE, 20A
Nickel SHAVING STAND,
telescopic, bevelled mirror,
oak base,
21/. , rI
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bedroom ALARM CLOCK, nickel or
oxidised case, splendid timekeeper,
height sin,
10/6
Other styles, 4/6, 6/6, 8/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
READING GLASSES, nickel-mounted, wood
sizes, 2in 1/6, 2Jin 2/, stronger 2/6, 3in 3/,
3/6, 4/, stronger 4/6.
handles,
stronger
- OCKET KNIFE, 4
blades, finest Sheffield
steel, ivory handle,
5/tJ-
Other styles, 1/6, 2/,
2/6, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES, enamelled
frame, Morocco leather covered.
20/.
Other styles, 10/6, 15/, 17/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SIGHT COMPASS, jewelled bar, patent
needle grip, oxidised brass case,
21/-
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Eight-day Marblette CLOCK, strikes hours and halves,
loud gong, first-class timekeeper, fancy dial, lOin
high,
"o/-
Other styles, 20/, 27/6, 30/, 35/, 40/. 42/6, 45/.
i
WiNcncio Row«otham*C
mm
i~l. II ULMl» t JJlllL,lLHH.jil ta il
A. SAUNDERS.
CUTLERY SET, Meat Carvers, -dozen Table and Des-
sert Knives, finest Sheffield steel, xylonite handles, in
case, 45/-
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SCISSOR SET, comprising 3 pairs of Scissors, finest
Sheffield steel, in leather case, 11/6.
Other styles, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Miner’s MAGNIFYING GLASS,
triple lense, nickel mounted, 5/6.
Double, 2/; stronger, 3/6.
A. SAUNDE3..
PEGGY BAGS, Morocco leather, well
sewn throughout, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/.
In crush Morocco, 25/.
All the Latest Styles in Seal, Crocodile,
and Beaver, from 12/6 to 27/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SCISSORS, fine Sheffield
steel, sin 1/3, sJin 1/6,
6in 1/9, 6£in 2/3, Tin 2/9.
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, polished nickel mounts, cut-glass bottle,
crystal glass base. 17/6-
Other styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 16/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT CARVERS, xylonite handles, Carving Knife, Fork, and Steel,
hand-forged Sheffield steel, in velvet- lined case, 15/.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 25/, 30/, 32/6. 5-piece Sets, 30/, 35/,
silver ferrules,
40/, 50/, 60/.
SMOKER’S SET, highly polished
Match-holder, Pipe Rack, and gks
not included), 15/6-
Other sfyle», 8/6, 12/6, 2
n ; c':?l Tobacco Jar,
:s Ash Tray (piP e3
3/, 22/6, 25/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 Qeorge-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


FOLDING POCKET KODAKS
■- 4, <2 ■ ■
Are the perfection of Camera design and
construction. Light, compact, yet fully
equipped, they go easily into the pocket,
and are loaded and reloaded in daylight. The
exposed films are also developed in daylight.
NO DARK ROOM AT ALL.
The Keynote of
KODAK
Photography
Is SIMPLICITY.
There are Kodaks at prices
from 5/6 to £9, and
Complete Outfits from 18/-
JL
m
No previous experience is wanted. The little
Manual supplied with every Kodak makes
everything clear. Write for the new KODAK
BOOK, containing full particulars and many
illustrations showing what a Kodak can do.
Proprietary Limited
Sole Agents in Australia
for KODAK LIMITED.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
Barnum Powell, the “hero” of dim and
beery-memoried Mafeking, has rushed into the
limelight as editor of a paper. Pearsons are
behind the venture, which is entitled the Scout,
and the first number was due on April 14.
Whether this publication is to be devoted exclu-
sively to that portion of the army that is sup-
posed to spend its time flat on the lower part of
its chest behind fences and in ditches, that it may
learn something of importance concerning the
enemy, remains to be seen. It seems probable,
however, that the paper will be used to bolster up
the fast-diminishing reputation of Barnum.
Bishop Frodsham, of North Queensland,
whose diocese has received an anonymous gift of
£5OOO, knows his way about England, where
anonymous donors mostly hang out. Generally
the anonymity serves for a brief period the pur-
pose of a missing-word competition, and then the
blushing brewer or abashed jerry-builder admits
the soft impeachment, and gathers in credit for
modesty as well as for generosity. Frodsham is
known in the clerical world as “Flotsam and
Jetsam,” owing to his indecision of manner. He
joined the Church late, having given his hopeful
youth and ardent young manhood to the office of
a shipping company.
“ Riverina” writes
I have been cruelly deceived. Always imagined Jack
Dowling, “The Wild Colonial Boy,” as a particularly
daring individual who robbed the lordly squatter and
slew policemen indiscriminately. Recently, however,
an old-time resident of Castlemaine (where Mr. J.
Dowling “bounded on his parents”) apprised me of
the nature of the crimes committed by the hero of the
song, and I feel as Tom Pinch felt when he discovered old
Pecksniffs unworthiness. The Wild Boy’s operations
were of the paltriest nature, and he wound up with a long
term for bailing-up an qld lady and robbing her of £5.
He subjected her to much ill-usage because she refused
to part promptly. . Then he turned out a despicable
crawler and tale-bearer in gaol. But—worst of all —he
was captured, not-,in a Homeric struggle with the
troopers, but in a hbllow-loy. Next man who starts the
song in my hearing will find himself attacked by a big
bushman with murder in his glare and a substantial
waddy in his hands. By-the-way, the song was written
by another prisoner, who apparently drew largely upon
his imagination for incidents.
THE GEM OF MQNARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
Further information may be obtained from the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate, Ltd., Mutual Life
Building Pitt IE and Martin Place, Sydney; H. A Merewether, Mutual Life Buildings, Martin Place
Sydney; The Manager, Mount Cooper Estate, 8 Flat, N.S.W. ; or The New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.
AN HONEST PROPOSITION
TO PARTIALLY
DEAF PEOPLE.
The “EXTRA EAR”
is a scientifically constructed HEARINO APPARATUS, which can be
worn with comfort at Home, in Church, Theatre, or Concert Hall.
Weight under £oz.
The “EXTRA EAR” is not “invisible” or “ electric,” nor will it cure you of deafness, but it is
just the most useful instrument invented to date for the comfort of anyone whose hearing is defective.
Price 215., postage paid, to any address. Money Order or Postal Notes must accompany orders.
miR riiARANTEE —Money refunded in full if Instrument is found unsuitable, and is posted back to
us in original wrapper within seven days of receipt. [Please mention this paper.
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD.,
Contractors to Queensland Government and Hospitals.
Reference : English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd
The Surgical Supply House,
BRISBANE, Q.
AH Branches. N.B.—We publish no testimonials.
m,
The Steel Test in a Razor.
In most good Razors the claim is “ good English steel,” but the
PLUM quality is of a still higher grade known as good English
SILVER steel. It’s a steel that rings true as a bell, cuts keenly,
is finely tempered, and needs little stropping.
Let Your Next Razor be a “ PLUM ”—lO/6 Post Free Anywhere.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
II
#
4
II
A WINTER’S TALE
We all like a good tale, especially in the winter as we sit round the
roaring fire and watch the sparks fly upwards. Sometimes a stranger on
the road will call and conjure up stories of youthful frolics, tinged with
strange doings. Like Hamlet, he “could a tale unfold, whose lightest
word would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood.”
But not always do we want the blood-curdling variety, and seldom
can we find a friend in our midst who can coin the winter’s tale to our
liking.
But you can have the heartiest laugh listening to stories
ON THE
EDISON PHONOGRAPH,
which tells the funniest stories in the funniest way. The very cream of
raconteurs is at your service on the phonograph, which not only talks, but
sings, laughs, whistles, and plays. It is the most entertaining of visitors,
and can be purchased for a comparatively small sum.
If you send us your address we will forward the name of your nearest
dealer. He will willingly let you hear some of the recent selections. We
will also forward lists of machines and Gold-Moulded Records. Write to-
day. Once you possess a genuine Edison Phonograph you will wonder
how you managed to get along without it before.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


Running Humour from Birth—Face
a Sickening Sight—Worn to a
Shadow —People Said, * How
Can You Wish Him to Live ? ”
USE OF CUTICURA HAS
A MARVELOUS RESULT
“My husband and I thought you
would like to know what the Cuticura
Remedies have done for our baby boy.
He had running eczema from birth.
It developed itself after the first month.
The poor little fellow’s head was quite
raw, his face was a sickening sight and
the dreadful humour would soak his
pillow through in a single night. It
wore him to a shadow. People who
saw him said, ‘How can you wish him
to live?’ Two doctors saw him; one
recommended Cuticura Remedies, but
could do little else for him, for it was so
obstinate. We tried several remedies,
in fact everything we could think of and
were told of. At last we got Cuticura
Ointment, and together with the Cuti-
cura Soap the result was marvelous, for
I have not finished one box and the
skin is now perfectly clear. It has aU
dried up and his hair is growing won-
derfully, and instead of sleepless nights
he has the proper sound sleep. Mrs.
C. Baker, 28, Victoria Road, Bland-
ford, Dorset, March 12, 1906.”
WOMEN ONLY
Are Most Competent to Appre*
ciate the Purity, Delicacy, and
Efficacy of Cuticura Soap
And to discover new uses for it daily.
It combines delicate, medicinal, emol-
lient, sanative, and antiseptic proper-
ties derived from Cuticura Ointment,
the great Skin Cure, with the purest of
saponaceous ingredients and most re-
freshing of flower odours. For preserv-
ing, purifying, and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair, and hands, for itch-
ings, irritations, and inflammations, for
sanative, antiseptic cleansing, as well
as for all the purposes of the toilet,
bath, and nursery, Cuticura Soap, as-
sisted by Cuticura Ointment, is priceless.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humourof Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
& Co.. Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Oorp., Sole Props.
U3T Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
mk
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in ail Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Established 1877.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
The Most Gifted
of Modern . . .
Musicians ...
are glad to honor THE
STEUSTWAY Piano, both
Upright and Grand, in their
use of same in Public and
Private
Other pianos may have the
same external appearance
(that in itself is a compli-
ment to it), but they cannot
duplicate its perfect and
wonderful internal mechan-
ism—mechanism which pro-
duces the fine, even, round,
inimitable Steinway tone.
Name any Piano—by any maker—-
and we will be pleased to show you
the superiority of The Steinway over
every feature they claim to possess.
CATALOGUES FREE.
CASH OR TERMS.
7LL&
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
115,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia lauyhed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps auyhiny. Red Harry Is.
rtr
/y
'/In
A Li/e-time Necessity
Itisnot simply now and then, but always and every day that
Horli' k’s Malted Milk proves its value and its handiness.
A reliable food for the baby, a source of strength to the
growing boy, a stamina giver for athletes, a stimulating,
blood-making food for anaemic girls, a valuable tonic for
shaken nerves, and a digestible and enjoyable food for old
age—all of these things you find in Horlick’s Malted Milk.
Made in a moment—only water needed.
Sold’by all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, &e.
HORLICI& MALTED MILK
Samples: 82 Pitt Street. Sydney, N. S. Wales. Horliek's Food Co. Slough, Bucks, England.
LADY’S STYLISH
BALMORAL, for skating
15/6
Of Tan Willow Calf, this boot is one that we can highly recommend.
It is strongly sewn, has a welted sole, and is one that ladies
will welcome for skating or walking use. Very neat and stylish,
its price is only 15/6-
If ordering in Victoria add
Qd. for postage ; if in other
States, add 1/-
Drop us a Post Card for our
Booklet “Shoelig'ht,” beauti-
fully illustrated with our
finest footwear. We send it
FREE.
LEEMING’S
BOOT STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 1 and 3 Errol Street,
North Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
When you ask for
BOVRIL
do not take a cheap imitation. BOVRIL is all beef and is a
standardised strength-giving food.
Always have BOVRIL handy.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
Excess Fat \
Makes women look ten
years over their age.
Makes them ugly and
ungainly. Endangers
their health. Impedes
their progress, and
makes them a laugh-
ing-stock for their
acquaintances, and a
standing butt for
family jokes.
Weakens the heart,
and makes life miser-
able —as you know.
HgSSg^
YOUR
EIGHT
"FATCURE”
Makes life worth living’. It reduces the weight
permanently. Gives back the graceful curves
of a good figure. Strengthens the heart, and
gives perfect health where only indifferent
health had been existent owing to the accumu-
lated fat.
Send a 2d. stamp for free trial sample, and
full particulars, or call if convenient.
“FATCURE” is absolutely harmless, and is
pleasant to take.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance from Castlereagh or Market Streets.
[29
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
Bg mewis <y
*n» splendid
v
post
m
XV
f
COMMERCIAL
BOOKKEEPING.
ACCOUNTANCY.
SHORTHAND.
•PENMANSHIP.
ENGLISH.
LANGUAGES. AC.
AGRICULTURAL.
SOIL MANAGEMENT
ORAINAGE AND
IRRIGATIO.N.
BREEDING AND
MANAGEMENT OF
LIVE STOCK, AC.
QOMMERCIAL ART
DRAWING.
LLUSTRATING.
ADVERTISEMENT
WRITING.*
OESIGNIWG. AC.
HIGHER SALARIES and
splendid prospects await
those who take advantage
of our system of POSTAL
INSTRUCTION. We teach
wherever the mail reaches,
and our methods ensure the
acquirement of MONEY-
MAKING KNOWLEDGE.
Our instruction is thorough,
practical and complete, and
our instructors are men of
unquestionable ability and
experience. Every student
receives careful individual
attention, and the instruction
is private. We prepare
candidates for all PUBLIC
EXAMINATIONS.
It coats nothing to inquire.
Write TO-DAY for FREE
copy of PROSPECTUS E
and state subject in which
you are interested.
[^(ijl^paasa
COLLEGE
56 HUNUR ST SYDNEY.
428 COLLiNS ST MELBOURNE
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
10-
10-
7i
Nw.dunkunc
SIS.BOURKE STREET.
MELBOURNE- *
M
i
V.
The “Dreadnought” is an exceptionally strong,
polished steel cylinder watch, with high-gra
jewelled movement, with nickelled dome, it
wound up and the hands set without opening
case by the latest keyless mechanism. "Vou can a
the case either GUNMETAL or NICKEL. 80l ■
practically dustproof, and have a strong bev H
crystal glass face. Every watch thoroughly t
and regulated before being offered for sale,
guaranteed in writing for 12 months. Sent post
anywhere for 10/- . .. j
Your money returned in full if you are no j satis
Write for Catalogue, Post Free.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
The
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Someone has sent me a copy of an English
paper, recording at length the marriage of Mrs.
Wintringham, of The Abbey, Grimsby, and the
Rev. Dr. J. Fordyce, M. A., late of N.S. W. In 1887
this gentleman yarded souls for the Congrega-
tional Church at Point Piper-road, Woollahra.
(Only fair to say that the English paper doesn’t
use the phrase “yarded souls.”) There is no
more thrill in the record, uidess you can get one
out of the fact that the bride wore “a tasteful
dress of grey, with coat of hand-embroidered lace
dyed to match.” Another case of Dyed Gar-
ments, and quite a lot of us have lost money on
that animal, and never want to hear the words
again.
Miss Inez Bensusan must surely feel as if she
had wings on her feet. Under the title “ A
Play of Fantasy,” Max Beerbohm, in the Satur-
day Review, gives her drama “ The Philosopher’s
Stone ” two columns of review. True, he does
not write all the time with rose-water for ink,
but the fact that he has written a critical notice at
such length is proof that the Sydney girl has done
something uncommon enough to arrest the in-
terest of the Higher Cultured Person. “ Isaac
York ” is the pen-name under which Miss
Bensusan has brought out her play. (Wasn’t it
Isaac of York who was considerably annoyed
in his dungeon by Sir Reginald Front of
Beef, or some such name, when that person wanted
to know which cellar he banked his money in ?
That pen-name proves cynical humor.) “The
Philosopher’s Stone ” was produced in a theatre
by a corporation known as “The Play Actors,”
and there was a huge audience. The central
female figure of the Fantasy is one Mitni, who, as
a baby, was washed up by the ocean. She is
uncanny, like the mysterious green person who is
found on the shore after storms, combing her
hair and singing in a low sweet note. She lives in
a cave, and when in doubt she “asks the sea,”
instead of inquiring of a policeman. The mystery
of the sea clings about her. A great lady takes
possession of her, and she is seen in the mansions
of the affluent who have made great fortunes out
of pork. Also she loves, and is beloved,
and by-and-bye she strangles her lover with
her long hair, and “gives him to the sea.”
The tune of Fantasy turns discordant after
the first act, so one gathers from the criticism.
The mysterious maiden doesn’t carry the sense of
oddness and mystery from the wild and sea-shelled
shore to the tame and cushioned boudoir. But,
for all that, Beerbohm speaks of the first act as
“enjoyable” and “delightful,” and says there
was “plenty of imaginativeness in Miss Ben-
susan’s acting ’’ of the part of Mimi ! The Sydney
critic who, when Miss Bensusan was acting with
Diver, under the MacMahons, used to assert that
she had many of the qualifications for a great
actress, may see his assertions realised.
I have received this letter, and run it in on
general principles :
To mitigate “Nil’s ” anguish, “ Akenehi ” is just
Maori for the front name of A* * **. Find the
missing letters.
A letter from Mrs. “Freddie” Shipman inti-
mates that the sunshiny pair—she and Freddie—
may be back here presently with some fresh
attractions to brighten the gaiety of this nation.
In London Mrs. Shipman saw Lady Dudley, and
mentions that she is rather short, with flashing
black eyes. Somehow, one imagined her, from
her portraits, to be tall. But the camera is a
misleading cuss.
First number of the Encore, described as The
Australian Magazine for Musical People, is
in the hands of musical folk and on the
bookstalls. A pleasantly written interview with
Melba, an article on Mark Hambourg, a charm-
ing story, “The Sonata Appassionata,” by
Ambrose Pratt, and numerous notes on the
various musical societies are the leading features.
Its illustrations, printing and paper, in the
language of journalese, leave nothing to be desired.
The closing of the late supper-places in this
afflicted town is having a parlous effect on the
matrimonial fortunes of the young chorus person.
In the good old days when a bottle of fizzy wine
followed the show, there were chances for all.
Champagne, howbeit indifferent in quality, causes
the immature male to unbend wonderfully. Under
its bubbly influence he tends to grow romantic,
affectionate, maudlin. Given a sufficiency, and
he will wax lamentable and idiotic. This is the
golden hour of the social climber of
the coulisses. There is a type of callow
youth which invariably proposes to someone when
in drink. Under the old supper rtgime such a one
was not suffered to sober up thoroughly (when
quite sober he was almost invariably a bigoted
anti-marriage crank), but was hurried off at day-
break in a state of left-off or second-hand drunk,
and espoused out of hand before he well knew
what was happening to him. Thus the youth got
a business-like female guardian, the guardian a
moneyed husband ; and all were pleased save only
the groom’s parents, who had Confidently expected
him to snare an heiress of title in a sober interval.
Truly. Judkins has more to answer for than he
wots of.
Our recent visitor, Dr. David Starr Jordan,
president of the Leland-Stanford University, is
said to be ill. At a meeting of the Amateur
Fishermen’s Association a resolution of sym-
pathy with the Prof, was carried, and it will
be packed up and sent to him. The Prof, was
referred to as one of the leading ichthyologists of
the world, and some of the association took that
to be the disease from which he is suffering. I
suppose you could die of ichthyology if you got
enough of it.
Yours Affectionately,
AKKNEHI.
To “ AKENEHI .”
Dear Lady, will you condescend to listen ?
I’ll pour my tale of sadness in your ear !
There never was so hard a case as this’n !
(Prepare to shed a sympathetic tear !)
I’ve carefully perused the “ Woman’s Letter,”
Ex Bulletin, for many, many years.
There’s no part of the paper I like better
(Except when what I write MYSELF appears).
How many beastly Saturdays and Sundays
That “ Woman’s Letter’s” helped me to pull through !
How many hundred thousand Mrs. Grundies
I’ve turned quite green by simply quoting You !
Alas ! But there’s a blowfly in the ointment
That puts the Kybosh on the blessed game,
And causes me unending disappointment !
I never, never can pronounce your name !
I think sometimes “ Ak-EE-nehy ” must be it!
Then “ Ack-en-EE-hy ” seems the better way.
“ Ack-EE-ne-hee ”’s the way some folks would see it.
Or “ Ake-’ne-hy ” some other chaps might say !
Yet others might pronounce it “ Acken-EE-hee,”
The accent placed on the penultimate
(No rhyme for that except the Latin “ mihi ”
Italian quantity, you’ll observate!)
“ A-kEE-ny” has a queer pedantic sounding,
And “ Ah-ken-ay-ee ” hints of far Fiji.
“ ’Ackney ” to Bow Bells brings the mem’ry bounding,
In Dooblin they would say “Akene-HEE!”
Next week, so please you, let me cease to languish,
And free my mind from these its pangs so many,
And tell me (just to mitigate my anguish),
If, after all, your name is not “A. Kenny.”
Yours truly,
NIL.


WINTER WISDOM
AS APPLIED TO CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY.
HOW TO PREVENT
COLDS.
COMMON-SENSE ADVICE.
Habitual colds are due to an ill-kept skin on £he
outside, and by dyspeptic mucous membrane on
the inside, the result of indigestion, coupled with
carelessness. Cold water, proper food, and com-
mon sense are the foundations upon which a pre-
ventive must rest. A cold sponge bath, one to
three minutes long, before breakfast, with a brisk,
dry rub, is excellent—usually all that is necessary
to keep the cutaneous circulation alive, and the
skin reactive to sudden changes of temperature.
For those unaccustomed to cold water, tolerance
can be gained in three weeks’ time by the use of
water at any comfortable temperature, making it
one degree colder each day, until it can be
employed, without dread, as cold as it will run.
Sea salt may be added to the water for its stimu-
lating effect. Cold water, intelligently used, does
not steal vitality, but fosters it. It stimulates the
nerves that control the expansion and contraction
of the blood vessels, and regulates the cutaneous
circulation. One should “keep moving” when
wet or chilly, and not stand on a street corner or
elsewhere without taking deep breath. The lungs
used in this way act as a pump, and drive the
blood along. This practice, with the others
named, will reduce to a shadow the liability of
taking cold every little while. If you should
contract a cold, get rid of it as quickly as possible,
for every cold weakens the lungs, lowers the
vitality, and paves the way for more serious
diseases. This is best accomplished by the use of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, a preparation that
can always be depended upon, and that not only
cures the cold, but counteracts any tendency
toward pneumonia.
HACKING COUGHS
CAN BE PROMPTLY CHECKED.
For Hacking Coughs—the kind that almost tear
you to pieces—that make your head ache—your
throat and lungs sore and inflamed—take
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. For Hacking
Coughs that rob you of your sleep till your system
l>ecomes so run down that you are in grave danger
of Pneumonia and Consumption, take Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy, and be quickly cured. It
soothes and heals the inflamed air passages, stops
the tickling in the throat, and by its tonic effect
enables you to throw off the disease. Every
bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is guaran-
teed to give immediate relief, and cure your cough.
THE CHILD’S LIFE
AND DANGERS THAT
THREATEN.
The worst danger to which the children of
Australia are exposed is the neglected cold. If
your baby has a cold, don't say, “It will wear
off,” and let it go at that. If your children have
the snuffles, or sore throats, or watery eyes, don’t
hesitate to take them from school from a day or
two so that you may break up the colds they have.
Every parent can add to the healthy condition of
the family and to his or her own peace of mind by
guarding against any and every kind of cold.
Generally the child does not know how it caught
cold. It may be impossible to prevent it exposing
its sensitive body to those dangers which older
persons shun. But the chances of contracting
colds can be easily diminished by a little care and
forethought. If the children get colds, don’t
waste any time. Don’t trifle with a cold. This
warning should be heeded by all. The lives of
many children are sacrificed each year by
neglecting the colds which they take ; others con-
tract chronic catarrh, from which they never fully
recover. Of all the cough mixtures sold, Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy certainly heads the list
as the most efficacious for colds, croup and whoop-
ing cough in children, and the one remedy that
always can be depended upon to effect a speedy
cure, and that is pleasant and safe to take. This
remedy contains no opium or other harmful drug,
and may be given as confidently to a baby as to an
adult. Its great worth and merit in the treatment
of these diseases has been attested by many
thousands of mothers.
COMMON COLDS.
We claim that if catching colds could be
avoided, a long list of dangerous ailments would
never be heard of. Everyone knows that pneu-
monia and consumption originate from a cold ;
that chronic catarrh, chronic bronchitis, and all
throat and lung troubles are aggravated and
rendered more serious by each fresh attack. Do
not risk your life or take chances when you have a
cold, even though you do call it a common cold.
If taken in time, Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
will cure it before these diseases can develop.
This remedy contains no opium, morphine or other
harmful drugs, and has thirty years of reputation
back of it, gained by its cures under every
condition.
CHILD’S NEGLECTED
COLD
AND THE RESULT.
Colds are the special banes of childhood, and
often lay the foundation for the more serious
diseases of after-life. One child catches cold, and
scares its mother into hysterics by having croup in
the dead of night. Another child catches cold, and
before it has fully recovered from it, takes another
cold, and perhaps before that is over contracts a
fresh one. This succession of colds, or even the
neglect of a common cold, causes the inflammation
of the mucous membrane, which was at first acute,
to become chronic, and the doctor will tell
you that the child has chronic catarrh, from which
it will never fully recover. Another child catches
cold. Little attention is paid to it, as the child
has often had colds, and always recovered from
them ; but in this instance a stubborn cough is
developed. The parents are filled with fore-
bodings. Still another child catches cold, and
could easily have been cured by proper treatment,
but, being neglected, develops the most fatal
malady of childhood, pneumonia. The doctor is
called, and pronounces it lung fever, and if the
child is lucky enough to live, it has developed
weak lungs, making it susceptible to all lung
diseases. Every one of these children could have
been cured by the prompt use of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. A few doses of it, and the child’s
cold is gone. It counteracts any tendency of a
cold to result in pneumonia, quickly dispelling all
fear of that dangerous disease. It is also a
certain cure for croup, and has never been
known to fail. When given as soon as the
croupy cough appears, it will prevent the attack.
A medicine of such great worth and merit as
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy should be kept in
every house where there are young children.
Don’t wait till the child is sick, and then have to
•send for it, but keep it on hand, ready for instant
use when needed.
Every Bottle Guaranteed.
If you fail to get beneficial results after using
two-thirds of a bottle of
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
according to directions, return it to your dealer,
and get your money back. It is well known for
its prompt cures of coughs, colds, and croup.
HOW COLDS ARE
CONTRACTED
AND PROPER TREATMENT.
A cold is always the result of undue exposure
to low temperatures. The rapid cooling of the
surface, when not balanced by proper reaction,
produces congestion and inflammation of the
nasal and bronchial membranes. Obviously, such
an ailment is not communicable, in the ordinary
sense, from one individual to another. As the
slightest “ cold ” predisposes the individual to at-
tacks of the most severe and dangerous catarrhal
affections, the necessity for its quick cure need
not be enforced. These facts emphasise the
necessity of extra precautionary measures
against the ordinary cold. Everyone cannot change
his Climate at will, but may make the most of
what he has at home—viz., take Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy as soon as the first indication
of the cold appears. It not only cures a cold
quickly, but counteracts any tendency of the cold
to result in pneumonia. This fact has been fully
proven during the epidemics of colds and influenza
of the past few years. No case of either of these
diseases having resulted in pneumonia when this
remedy was used has ever been reported to the
manufacturers, and thousands of bottles of it are
sold every day. This shows conclusively that it
is not only the best and quickest cure for colds,
but a certain preventive of that dangerous disease,
pneumonia.
SORE THROAT.
A SIGN OF WEAKNESS.
A sore throat indicates there is some weakness
in the bronchial tubes. There is an irritation ; a
feeling of some foreign substance lodged there;
and a choking sensation is experienced. If this is
neglected it soon develops into some chronic com-
plaint. People who are troubled this way are
most susceptible to Influenza, contract Pneumonia
readily, and fall easy victims to Consumption.
You must remove this irritation, soothe and heal
the inflamed tubes. There is nothing equal to
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy for this. It gives
tone to the weakened tissues of the throat,
strengthens the bronchial tubes, and at the same
time helps build up the system. When the
throat is healthy, the influenza or consumptive
germs can obtain no foothold.
The much harassed. Rev. Nash, of Geelong
(Vic.), has at last been acquitted by his headlong
and unsatisfactory archbishop of the charges
brought against him. It seems he didn’t do the
Unknown Thing after all. And meanwhile news
as to the thing that Nash was said to have done
remains as scarce as ever. A horrible suspicion
has arisen that when he was in England he
neglected to destroy rabbits on his selection, as
provided by law.
At the recent Melbourne Conference the
State Insects protested that they were quite as
anxious as Customs Minister Chapman to stop
the big-wheat-bag outrage. Yet, though they
could do it in 24 hours by a Railway regulation,
sweating, staggering laborers were last week still
humping bags of wheat that went up to 4751 b.,
carrying them from farmers’ waggons at Rainbow
(Vic.) to Bent’s railway trucks. If the wheat-
lumpers waited for the State Insects to relieve
them, they might die first.
It has been a pet theory in England for
ever so many years that the Irishman is unfit for
self-government, and that but Jor the fostering
care and good advice of the superior Englishman
there is no knowing what might happen to him.
The writer used to hear this tale in England when
he was a boy 40 years ago. and it was an old tale
even then. Now the British Commission on
Congestion in Ireland recommends the wholesale
resumption of estates in five counties, and the
substitution of a race of small peasant proprietors
for the big landlords. And Irish reformers were
dinning that same remedy into the ears of the
superior but obtuse Englishman at least 60 years
ago.
Had Tom Slattery continued to “act
splendidly ” lie would easily have ousted young
Tom Dalton and others as successor to F. B. Free-
hill in the Spanish Consulship in N.S.W. There
are several K.S.G.’s now to select from, and it is
considered that the two “honors” should go
together. K.S.G. began in N.S.W. with San
•lust, the consul who passed over the Spanish
Queen’s gold altar-plate to St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Archbishop Polding procured him the K.S.G.,
thus starting the line that still runs. Jennings
was second, the late John Hughes third, and then
follow . Toohey, two Daltons, another John
Hughes, and so on. The creation of a few more
K.S.G.’s is in contemplation, but when an effort
' s made to steer away from beer and whisky,
choice seems to bump on to the Devil’s brigade.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET of
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
31st MARCH,
1908.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation ..±1,063,124 0 0
Deposits and accrued
Interest.. .. ..26,929,330 11 9
£27,992,454 11 9
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit of Invest-
ments Fluctuation Account, Officers’
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident Fund
and the Buckland Fund) 3,575,534 11 7
Paid-up Capital, bearing;
6 months’
Dividend £2,482,240 0 0
3 months’
Dividend 11,480 0 0
2,493,720 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,530,000 0 0
Profit and Loss . . .. 195,719 0 6
4,219,439 0 6
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra
£35,787,428 3 10
.. 624,573 15 8
£36,412,301 19 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances .. ..£7,964,304 9 3
Queensland Government
Notes 207,817 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 33,311 0 0
Money at short call in
London 1,005,000 0 0
Investments —British &
Colonial Government
Securities .. .. 2,387,673 3 0
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 149,764 2 11
Due by other Banks .. 66,180 13 1
Bills Receivable in London
and Remittances in
transit .. .. .. 2,546,224 18 10
-£14,360,275 7 1
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad-
vances to Customers .. .. ..20,737,152 16 9
Bank Premises 690,000 0 0
£35,787,428 3 10
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, as per Contra .. 624,873 15 8
£36,412,301 19 6
Profit and Loss, 31st March, 1908
Cr.
Dr.
To Rebate (at current rates) on Bills Dis-
counted not. due at this date .. ... £7,33118 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows : —
To Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum ..£124,399 0 0
Augmentation of the Re-
serve fund .. .. 30,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward 33,983 2 6
188,387 2 6
£195,719 0 6
By Amount from last Account .. .. £31,645 14 5
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits after pro-
viding for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Fluctuations in the Value of Invest-
ment Securities, reducing the Valuation
of Bank Premises, and including Re-
coveries from Debts previously written
off as Bad 164,073 6 1
£105,719 0 6
Dr.
Reserve Fund, 31st March, 1008.
Or.
To Balance .. .. £1,560,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested in
British Government Securities,
3 and the balance is employed in
the business of the Bank.)
£1,560,000 0 0
By Balance
ALFRED G. MILSON /
HARRINGTON PALMER f
Auditors.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
\V. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
Audited, 22nd May, 1908.
sy>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
IF yon don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
THE MOTORIST’S
OAS" 1
JDixon&C®
DRINK.
Motoring’ is very fre-
quently accompanied by
bad spells of weather
that have a tendency to
bring coughs, colds, and
other ills in their train.
The wise motorist, how-
ever, never fails to carry a
bottle of “0.T.” in his
car, and with this famous
beverage at hand the worst
of weather can do no
harm.
All hotels, grocers,
chemists, and general
stores. 13


Shipping,
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•GEELONG
•COMMONWEALTH
0611 |T. J. Hine
.. Aug. 22
•Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies A ct, IS6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• 413,296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) ~ 64,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock . .3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq.; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Qolonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
j}ank of florth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Qijkknsland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of new Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ~ £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
PDAIITC ItDACTC on Australia, New Zea-
UnHIl I O UnHr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
1^
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
dxr.s. W .
|l]ontdepieteD.*|.C°->litd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
ANT) AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mkkks, Esq., M.L.C.
(Gibbs, Bright & Co.); E. Vickery, Esq. ; J. Campbell-
Wood, Esq. : J. J. Allen, Esq. ; E. Laidley, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
EXECUTORS
TH E TRUaTE Eta,
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 (
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 (
Directors : F. It Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, i.sq.;
Hon J. M. Pratt ; lion.''Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN , Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
[TACT’RY ’ANDS,” bv Edward Dyson.
2 “ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. Gd.
Shipping-
TST. 3D. X_«.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ SICISMUND 30th JUNE.
MANILA 28th JULY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 25th AUG.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c .
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMJTJSJJ. ”
Capital Paid-up .. . .. .. £485,003 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALT H
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. 'Plymouth., and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw.
f New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London ... ~ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 10th
June.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about Bth
July.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New i'ork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamvhlets, Timetables, , and all other Information
on An plication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
JJalfjety and f 'oinpan,i/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f HO LI PAY
TO
N + QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
'
m
CRUISES. *<
AND
THE ISLANDS*
porta), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &C.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ... £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,220,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,250,000 0 0
£3,720,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H E. Eater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. . Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. 11. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New Soutn Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - <£500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . .
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Business Announcements.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
A
• *oBm
i.i i'-,.,. * If/
v-:
a.;
■ 'l ■; •
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See fnachine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Stkele, Sole Agent.
Hotels, 8c c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find everv comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Iviansions, 2 to 5 Beacoturield Parade
ST. KILDA.
r|\Hii; Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the'Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, £-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Georoe hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
NEAT £«id
STRONG.
TO
MEND
BELTS'and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
> No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers ; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tul ular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington. F.ng.
Price List on
. application.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 G-eorge Street,
SYDNEY.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE, A
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Burrumbeet, June 16.
S.S. Grantala, June 20.
(Without transhipment.'
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Churns.
-S.S. Marloo, June 6.
S.S. Yongala, June 13.
Ttest and Cheapest Iloute to Goldfields
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after h,.
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on ah
services subject to conditions, which can be
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGERiES JARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines. "
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia
Tel - 378. 57 Pifct S t ree t.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
June 6.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, June 13.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking- passengers (
and cargo for S.A., i
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ]
KYARRA, SATURDAY, June 27.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
June 6.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
June 9.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
June 13.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.= H.
Federal-Houlder-SKire Lines.
For London and Liverpoo
(via Madeira).
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
.1,300 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and thira-ctass
passengers. . m
iVill he despatched from Brisbane on the 4th June,
„ Sydney „ 10th June, 908
~ Melbourne ~ 15th June, 19
” „ „ Adelaide „ 20th June 1908
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-ber
:abins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior Third-class accommodation comprisea
! 4, and S-berth cabins, situated on the main >
miidships, with dining-room on the upper deck.
ighted and ventilated cabins and spacious •
L'hird-class passengers supplied with fresh pro
iom cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surge
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout,
rickets issued. Prepaid passages arranged
FARES- Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and \
LIVERPOOL ../
£49 10s. £l3<l3s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s-
Steerage Fares'from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
To be followed every four weeks by oth f^^„\ ion ,
screw passenger steamers. For further inf
illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to.
BIIIT & 00., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney. .
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Ltd., Melbouin
ELDER SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.


A Half-Page of Beautiful Tiling's from which
to Choose.
How do you liKe the New Style of NecKlet
Set witl\ the Fashionable Ttircjtioise Matrix?
Very effective when worn, we can assure you;
and the Style and Color suits the majority of
people. We have a variety of designs after
the style of the one we picture here.
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd.
STjSVDNEV.
Then we have the Malachite Necklets —rather
a pretty stone in shades of green. They come
out at the following prices—Bos. and 90s. If
you want to wear the very newest you can
order one of these with safety.
m
C 2 Gold and Real Pearl Set Necklet, in case, <£4//0/<
Fine Opal and Diamond
Marquise Ring, 18ct. Gold , £l7/10/-
r-;
Cl. —Fine Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Necklet, in case, £4lls t '
No. Hls49.—Real Pearl
Set, Amethyst and Gold
Pendant, £2/101-
No. G9396.—15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl
Set Brooch, £l/1716.
No. F729B—Pearl Set Gold Spray Brooch,
21 j- ; with Pearls and Olivines, in 15ct.
Gold, £2.
No. H7727—lscfc. Gold, Pearl and Exquisite Enamel
Pendant, with Gold and Pearl Necklet, in Morocco
-Case. £BllOl-
No. G5OG9.—•
Sapphire.
Pearl and
15ct. Gold,
Pin, 25/-
The Latest Style of Necklet. Real Turquoise Matrix and Pearls, mounted
in Gold, £5/5/-.
Other styles, somewhat similar, for 70/-, 80/- and 90/-.
No. H 7729. —Pearl and Tur-
quoise Tortoise Brooch in 15ct.
Gold, £2/15/-
No. H772B—Whole Pearl
Acorn Brooch, in 15ct.
Gold, 35/-
Fine Gold—Whole Pearl—Diamond
and R. Ruby Brooch and Pendant,
in case, £3O.
a
p
9ot. Gold Tie
or Safety
Pins.
lin., 3/6
ljin., 4/6
liin., 5/6
2in., 8/6
No. H7726—Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Necklet and
Pendant, in Morocco Case, £9/10/-
HOW TO MAKE YOUR LIVER AND KIDNEYS ACT
Uric Acid Brings 111-Health*
Investigation strengthens the belief that eating too
much meat is responsible for the formation of uric acid,
which pi’oduces disease in our midst with terrible results.
It is quite true that a large percentage of the popu-
lation suffer from uric acid troubles. But eating meat is
a necessity of life, and one of its greatest pleasures.
The round of roast beef, with the rich, red gravy, is
a palate tickler we should not like to discard. If we aie
to give up eating meat, and many other pleasures of life,
we might as well die.
There is no need to die (at least, not at present),
and there is no reason why any of the reasonable
enjoyments of life should be abandoned if we regulate
the internal organs to counteract the mischief of errors
in diet.
Kutnow’s Powder taken occasionally before break-
fast, on an empty stomach, will clear the system of all
excessive uric acid. It has a most delightfully refreshing
and invigorating effect.
It clears and gleanses the foul stomach and quickly
gets rid of indigestion. It rouses the sluggish liver,
flushes the kidneys, washes out the bladder, and most
effectually removes biliousness and jaundice.
The best health-giver in the world is Kutnow’s
Powder, which only needs to be tried in order to prove
its own merits. Once you purchase a bottle you wil
never regret it. •
1 ~-
ijy
r iJ
r^-
nim
*1
3; KUTNOW’S
Improved E rrcßvtsccnt CarISBAD
POWDER*
m
m
Eirsdictisprung or Deer Leap
L°
m London
t 41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
Kutnow's Brings Good Health.
Is it your wish to eat well, digest well, sleep well,
and work well ? Do you wish to have your blood
purified, and to be free from all uric acid contamination ?
Wisdom answers, YES !! ! We are glad to hear it.
Send to the nearest chemist for a bottle of Kutnow’s
Powder and you will enjoy good health hereafter.
Rev. J. PAL-lAJEL,
WRITES :
“Roman Catholic Mission, Nagpur, British India,
“July 4, 1907.
“Dear Sirs, —After having used the bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder, which you were good enough to send
me, and encouraged by its beneficial effects, I at once
obtained three more bottles of your Powder from
Bombay. lam more than ever convinced of the efficacy
of Kutnow’s Powder and its cleansing and antibilious
properties, and you can consider me hereafter as one of
your best clients.
“ (Rev.) J. PALLUEL.”
How to Guard against Fraud.
The Genuine and Original Xutnow's Powder can
be had of all conscientious chem sts throughout the
world. See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
and Co. Ld.,” and the Registered Trade Mark,
‘‘Hirschensprung or Deer leap,” are on the carton
and bottle. This is
How to Get Genuine Kutnow's Powder.
SUCCESSFULLY USED for
TWENTY YEARS
n


DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England— 1 //£, 2/9, 4/6.
COCOA
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously."
— Lancet.
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
OOO
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
to take, and, what is of the utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance of
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Brain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent or threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
“antibilious pills” make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medipine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in completely curing the complaints
named.
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to
4 —more or less as required—taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as an
auxilliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making’
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
oOo
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not
obtainable locally, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE. —The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular way that a far BETTER
result is obtained than from an ordinary
aperient.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Wincheombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA!
KMC.
22
s
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONLY.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS anti ’
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received hv
our head cutter : “
Copy of Testimonial.
government house
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
Lady Mary Lygon wishes me to say that
she %s thoroughly satisfied with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
(Signed) C. JA RDINIKR.
Grand Pipes
Be:st Pipes
DELKWrULPIPES
Thais what
°£*l/\R K cuARANTtp'
weans
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable From all Tobacconists
I
I
I
&
*
£
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES. Read the following proof of its efficacy: —
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford, writes: —“ If the value of ‘POWELL’S BALSAM OF ANISEED’
was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I have done for
upwards of 50 years; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably sets me up. It is
invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired effect I have had three
attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and 2or 3 bottles had the desired effect when all else failed. You may make
what use of this yon like." —December nth, IQO7.
Mrs. S. W. Bailey, 32, Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W., writes I may add that I recommend your
BALSAM after 12 years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts, for 35 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers.”— January, 1908.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Neu< South Wales and Queensland : —
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR COUGHS.
A?
# &
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds- and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is als ( o. the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords mo- et welcome relief
in a very short time.
❖
v
c
m OINTMENT


One of the few jokes of ex-Treasurer
George Turner’s life was played on his friend
0. C. Kingston. At the Federal Convention in
Adelaide, Kingston and Turner were members of
a committee that insisted upon absolute secrecy
regarding its discussions. One evening Turner
w;’s unable to attend a meeting of the committee,
but returning tohishotel at a late hour, and anxious
to know what had been done, he asked Alex. Peacock
to “ ring up Kingston.” Kingston was in bed, but
got up, and the business of the evening was freely
explained. Next morning at Parliament House
Kingston expostulated with Turner and Peacock
for rousing him out at night. Turner assumed an
air of innocent surprise, and repudiated any idea
that he had rung Kingston up. “It must have
been one of those newspaper fellows getting at
you.” “And you told him everything ! ” Peacock
broke in with a laugh. “ Damn !” said Kingston.
For the next day or two he had first
claim upon the Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane papers when they arrived in Ade-
laide, being anxious to see what “ those
newspaper fellows” had made out of his mid-
night disclosures. He didn’t know the joke until
Peacock gave it away three days later.
“ Te Barbarantiko, ” from a Tropic isle :
“ White men and women cannot live and thrive in the
tropics.” Silly old lie! The people who sav so simply
don’t know the tropics. “ Well, they can’t work as hard.”
They can (for a spell, anyway), but they don’t have to.
That’s the point. You can fret as "ood a return here for
threepenn’orth of labor as cold countries would yield for
ninepenn’orth, and in most cases you don’t do the other
sixpenn’orth.
HEARNES BRONOHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for*
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where " Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.'
VIGOROUS STRENGTH
■'iihi\ t
w/m/ft
Hit.
WITHOUT
DRUGS!
JT' VERY MAN
who is Weak and
Failing knows that there should be “something” that
will restore that “old-time vigor” to his body. He
has invariably tried all kinds of medicines and found
them a total failure. He finds himself worse instead
of better. If you have been paying money to doctors
and taking nasty medicines for years, and have
derived no benefit from it all, do you not think it
is time to Stop ? Twenty years’ experience with
drugs and electricity has confirmed us in the
knowledge that Electricity alone, without any
other material aid, will re-
place and renew lost energy
and vitality, and that our appliance is the only prac-
tical, commonsense way of applying it. Thousands of
grateful letters from cured patients, who suffered from
Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Lost Vigor, Ner-
vousness, Kidney Trouble, Backache, Rheuma-
tism, Sciatica, Varicocele, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Stomach, Liver and
Bowel Troubles, tell us that medicine failed
to cure them, and that “Nature's Cure,”
Electricity, as given by the improved
DR. McLAUCHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
with its Special Attachments for Men and Women, DID CURE them cafter they had given up hope. It is the grandest invention
age for weak people. . . . No weak, sickly, delicate person will ever regret giving it a fair trial. It is within the reach of all
price is as low as £1 in most cases. We are the originators of the EledAc Belt system of home treatment in Australasia. Our
the standard. It is Guaranteed ; no charge for repairs, and will last lifetime. BEWARE OE IMITATIONS.
of the
. The
Belt is
£5OO REWARD
Every Dr. McLaughlin's Electric Belt we sell is guaranteed to give a strong
current, instantly felt. We will pay £5OO to anyone proving the contrary.
FREE BOOK.
If yOU want to be Strong and Vigorous, with your veins full of youthful fire, your eyes clear,
your muscles strong and active, then write to us to-day, and we will send you, post paid, our new
Free Book, which every man and woman should read, and which will inspire you with courage to
help yourself. It is full 'of the things that make a man feel like BEING a man. Write to-day.
CA’.L IF P3SCI3LE.
Orfice Hours—9a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The McLAUGHLIN CO., Kept. 10, No. 7 Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science* It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
Efte LEADING
HOUSE ">■
Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
"WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP ...
CANT
B
BEAT
; v,:
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 71b. ; of 16-gauge, 61 to ... ss.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. tor the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
FLEXIBLE METALLIC TUBING”
Is made from Copper or Galvanised Steel Tape in one continuous length, rolled spirally and so that the edges interlock, with-
out affecting the flexibility of the whole. As the tape is rolled, a groove is formed for the reception of a specially prepared
packing of Rubber or Asbestos thread, which is completely enclosed in the metal as it is rolled, keeping it fully protected
from internal or external wear. This packing makes the tubing perfectly tight, while the interlocking feature induces a
flexibility in the smaller sizes equal, and in the larger sizes far superior to Rubber Hose of the same size and strength.-
It is made capable of carrying Steam at all pressures up to 3001 b. per square inch, and is also the best Hose for Oils, Gas,
Gasoline, Naphtha, Compressed Air, and Hydraulic purposes. Is unaffected by extreme Heat or Cold, and remains
perfectly flexible at all temperatures. It will not Char, Kink or Crush, and can be supplied to stand pressure up to 20001 b.
per square inch. Made in all sizes from £-inch to 10 inches internal diameter. Connections being fitted outside do
not reduce the capacity as in other Tubing. Specially adapted for :—Steam and Air Rock Drills—Steam and Hydraulic
Cranes —Locomotive and Tender Connections—Air Brakes and Steam Heating—Boiler Tube Cleaners—Fire Engine Suction
Hose—Gas Tubing for Laundries—Cooking Stoves and “ Penny-in-the-Slot ” Meters ” —Hydro Extractors
—Oil Wells and Tanks—Cyanide Pumps—Cordial Manufacture —Breweries—Chemical Works—Sugar
Refineries—Factories—Abattoirs —The Destruction of Rats, Rabbits, etc. —Protecting the Insulation of
Electric Cables above and below ground—Sinking Pumps in Mining Shafts—Marine Salvage Companies for
Pumping Water or Conveying Steam—Ships carrying Cargoes liable to Spontaneous Combustion, as it can
deliver steam or water right to the seat of the tire without injury to the Hose—Automobile Horns—
Speaking Tubes, Oil Fuel Burners, etc., etc. Large Stocks of all Kinds and Sizes always on hand.
All Storekeepers,
or direct from
R. A. HERVEY
Sole Agent for
Australasia,
Cor* Clarence & King Streets, Sydney*
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bull’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Cd posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
•Toys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained. Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNkigiiborßaymond, ls;post,ls3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illusp, Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s (id. A ust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Raldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
op Paris, Is (id. History op the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neigiiror, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
I s 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography SELF-TAUGiir ’(3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. n«w
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Cd. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen,
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, <fcc., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas- Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiaudr, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datk, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science. 3s fid. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses. 3s (id. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 3d. Waxnan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
NiGiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled Into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, D*r- Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write lor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 1.4 Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all- Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
READ,
MARK,
EEARN
HOW
TO
LOOK
YOUNG,
"V
■s&m
TWAIN’S
HOW
NOT TO
GROW
OLD,
GREY HAIRS are quite in keeping with the role plaved bv the
GREAT Humorist. But ordina.v men desire to retain their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty. Women
desite o retain their youth and beauty. Darken grey hairs with
LOCKYER'S
HAIR
RESTORER
In Lotties 1/6, of all chemists and stores.
Greener
ARE SATE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
Facile Princeps
The BEST SHOOTING
4?un in the WorldS.
For Catal j“ir_s write W. P. Thomp-
?on,3i7, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.’
T'VYSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. Gd.
lightftil and wickedly true/’*
“ De-
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
(crebos
Salt
Agents—
Harrison & Attwood,
Sydney.
§£ Brifisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.


PA
SAYS
No more
Bronchitis for
me now. I
always rely on
Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery and it
has never failed
me yet.
D? Sheldon's
NEW
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDHR
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
Conceals blemishes.
Of all Storfs and Chemisls.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
CDe Society or
Water Manufacturers
ana traders, £td.
For the protection, encourage mt nt ana
development of the Automobile Industry.
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
which will he pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
TfadefS who tail best supp'y
theii needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure).
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationary Motors,Component
0/f
zc)
Ofti RS&i
P arts, Tyres, or Accessories.
Address :
Maxw'll House. Arunae! St
London, England.
these rnrr
PRIZES lIILL
1
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us te. sell more we Offer FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id, each, or 6d. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Muff
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
. Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money—just your name and address.
.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
/ Post Card \
\ Department /1
476 George-street, SYDNEY.
MbsMaclorcan’s
m
r
1
■' ■
m
vm
OF ALL CHEMISTS
TC
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATiaR.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Pat*
of the Label.
CAUTION
Sydney Ferries.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A SONG of Sydney ferries !
The life their steersmen know,
What time the Manly buries
Her bows in o'Sean snow ;
Or when the Mosnran steamer,
As dawn begins to break.
With muffled pulse and silent screw
Conies ruffling into silver-blue
The velvet of the lake.
From morn till eve their playtime
Ihev make ’twixt headlands grey ;
Their bells record the daytime
From Ryde to Watson’s Bay.
And when the stars are burning
In ebon sconces set,
They light the sea with other stars
That sway like lamps at river bars
O’er the deep waves of jet.
O, steersman of the Manly,
The wind is at your throat;
Comes morning red or wanly,
It lights your flying boat.
O, stay not by our city,
Whose Harbor is your own ;
Leave to the souls that fume and fret
Their narrow streets of smoke and sweat,
And keep your rocking throne !
N.B.W.
L.F.
By Rail and Semaphore.
EMPEROR AND PROCONSUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the days of Rodney’s general manager-
ship, the Maoriland Railway Department
was a sort of replica of the Roman Empire.
Rodney, Geheral Manager, in his rain-swept,
windy eyrie of Wellington, like the Emperor
ruled all, and under him the various sections were
governed by District Traffic Managers, who,
within certain well-defined limits, were all-
powerful, even as the Proconsuls w'ere.
Unlike some of the men who had preceded
him, Rodney had been a railway man from his
cradle, and was conversant with every branch of
the work ; and, moreover, he kept a keen watch
on every section. Some of his inspection raids
were picturesque. But he had got to be known
by sight, and immediately he appeared on a
section the whole staff was made aware of the
fact. He realised that inspection by himself and
the regular auditors was useless except in the
matter of book-keeping. Nearly every railway
station had a telegraph-line running through it,
and immediately the Traffic Manager, or the
General Manager, or a known auditor appeared
somebody would rush the wire and call steadily
for ten seconds. “ Look out, look out, look out,
T.M.”( or G.M., or A., as the case might be) “on
line.” After that signal each S.M. rushed wildly
round and warned his staff that something sudden
in the way of inspection of points, signals, and
tarpaulin sheets lying unfolded in the footways
might be expected. And the staff buckled to,
and by the time the unwelcome visitor arrived
everything would be in apple-pie order.
Therefore when General Manager Rodney,
scanning the monthly return of fines, dismissals,
reprimands, and accidents, saw that Romahapa
Section had in four weeks dismissed nine men,
fined 50, reprimanded 52, and severely cautioned
87, he swore softly, and swinging his chair around
addressed Phil Colenso, his secretary :
“ What’s gone wrong with Romahapa ?”
“Seems to be getting demoralised. Mackenzie’s
lost the grip of his staff, that’s all. But it’s
enough! ”
“ By Heavens, yes ! ” said Rodney, reflectively.
“My experience is that a big succession of small
accidents, followed by a bloated list of fines,
reprimands and sackings, is the indication of a big
smash and a holocaust. The secret of good railway
management is to keep your staff tuned up to the
pitch of loyalty and enthusiasm, and your material
in good working order. Once you get away from
that, the big smash is not far away. And Mac-
kenzie has got away from it, if this list is any
indicator.”
“What do you propose to do? Shift Mack ?”
inquired Colenso, grabbing a “Notice of Trans-
fer” memo form.
“Good Lord, you can’t shift a Traffic Manager
like a cadet ! ” gasped Rodney.
“Why not, if it’s necessary? First rule says
the safety of the travelling public is above all
other considerations. And this seems to be a
place where it applies.”
“No —we have no specific charge to lay against
Mack. The fines, the sackings, and all the rest
of it, prove he is trying to stem the tide of
demoralisation. But he has evidently failed to
get at the cause of it, judging by the fact that the
end of the period shows a higher average of small
blunders than the beginning.”
“ Well, go and look at his section, and see what
the Devil is wrong.”
“What use? Some cheerful idiot will signal
the ‘LookOut,’ and I’ll find everything in the
garden simply blooming. No, they know me. So
you’re going to catch to-night’s steamer, and to-
morrow’s southern express, and strike Romahapa
to-morrow night. Try and work secretly, but if
it is impossible, throw off the mask and inspect.
I’ll give you the authority.” And he suited the
action to the word, and laid hold of a form, which
he filled in while still talking. It was on yellow
paper, the distinctive mark of the Head Office.
“Get off at the stations and hang about the
platforms. See how they work their station
yards; look at the lines of their signals; and
above all, look out for any signs of overwork or
undermanning. That is the most fruitful cause
of accidents. Also, inquire into how the staff
regard their Old Man—if they are loyal, if they
have confidence in his impartiality, and so forth.
A fair-dealing manager can always find a loyal
staff. Now go down and get some money from
Fife, and get away. The steamer leaves at 7.30
to-night.”
. “ Any word from Wellington about that blanky
irregularity return?” howled District Traffic
Manager Mackenzie to his secretary, as he lurched
into his room and subsided heavily into his chair.
“Anyhow, they can’t say I’m not doing my best.
Nine got the bounce, 50 fined, and Lord knows
I k*ve been
You have,” said his cynical secretary. “ Take
my advice and don't walk home o’ nights. You
live m a lonely part.” b
Sl 'i’ y °" don,t su £ff est that railway
men are thugs, do you ?”
~ tVl^r °’ cei 'tamlv not. But even a man who isn’t
a thug may feel like doing murder sometimes.”
w , fr" 8 , 1 !’ 1 A S ”PP° S « 1 had better take a cab
when I m late. When does Jones return ?”
Arrived this morning. Said he’d see the
department to the Devil and all the hlanky
managers oat of Hades in Hades before he’d come
° n < ~ b had a sleep.”
“There’s insubordination for you—by Heaven
it s m the very Traffic Office itself. I’ll deal with
mm when he does come.”
And then he turned round and met Jones face
to face, that breezy officer having blown in without
Wf “ vru . anv re P ] y to his knock.
why didn’t you come on duty— at any rate,
report yourselt before ? ” ■
“Only because I was knocked up. Worked
two shifts at Popatunoa right off; got that in-
ternal hole cleaned right up; caught the night
broods; packing blew out of the piston head, or
mam kicker, or some blasted thing, and hung us
up at Greyville, an infernal hole where there’s
no pub. So I went home and had a sleep. What’s
up with the section, anyhow ? ”
Going to the Devil—look at that irregularities
return. What sort of an impression "will that
make in Wellington, think you ? ”
Darned bad. Dither they’ll reckon you want
a new staff or that the staff wants a new mana-
said Jones; with brutal frankness.
■nr i-? Man regarded him with a gloomy eye.
He liked straight talk when in a tight place, but
Jones was almost too vertical.
“Well, if you know so much, go out and clean
vVhat do you suggest, anyhow ?”
“ Ihe overhauling of every station on the sec-
tion. Seems to me they are all short-handed,
inese are all the blunders of over-worked men.
Ihere s no sense in saving a few hundreds in wages
and paying away thousands in compensation for a
big smash, and ”
“Shut up, damn you, shut up! What the
Devil are you croaking about ? ‘ Big smash ’ !
Who s going to have a big smash ?”
.‘‘You are—unless we can stop this tendency ! ”
said Jones, laying his finger on the figures relat-
mg to the last week of the past month, or, as it
was officially called, “period.”
The Old Man mopped his forehead.
Well, go up to Omapere for a start, and com-
mence there right way. Rodney’s howling for a
reduction of expenses—and how in thunder can
we reduce the exes, without reducing the staff !”
Damn Rodney—you’ve got Alexander Mac-
kenzie to think of. If he tries to squeeze you
below an efficient staff, kick with both feet. And,
even if you go under, the subsequent smash will
put you right.”
Mackenzie looked round to where his secretary
usually sat, and observed with relief that he had
left the room.
“ You brainless goat ! How am Ito live in the
meanwhile ? And-—by the way, my boy, do you
happen to have your cheque book about you?
Imin a H 1 of a hole, and a couple of tenners
would add years to my life.”
Jones chuckled ; but, sitting down, he drew out
his cheque-book, and wrote therein, signed his
name with a grand flourish, and passed over the
slip, remarking as he did so :
“ All right. I’ll catch the express to-morrow,
and see what’s up with Omapere. Wire Millar to
come in for sight-testing, I suppose ? ”
“ Wire what you damn well like. God bless
my soul, look at the time, I’m half-an-hour late.”
And he rose unsteadily, examined the cheque
carefully, folded it up, and inserted it in his fob,
placed a packet of papers in the crown of his hat,
and waddled out.
Jones subsided into the vacant chair, lit a cigar,
and ruminated.
When the secretary returned, an hour later, he
found hinj still ruminating. The process stopped
suddenly, and Jones swung the chair round,
placed his feet on the manager’s table, toasted his
back, and fired off philosophy at the struggling
secretary till about 3 p.m.
“For the Lord’s sake, get out, Jones, and let
me do some work, if you won’t tackle anv
yourself.”
About 5 p.m. the Old Man ambled in, and
Jones promptly took his feet off the table, glanced
at the clock, and started for the door without
another word. The Old Man touched him on the
shoulder.
Absent-mindedly Jones stopped, and held out
his hand. The Old Man placed a slip of paper
in it.
“ What’s this ?”
“ My cheque for that little sum you obliged me
with before dinner, my boy. Many thanks.” (To
his secretary): “Charlie, enter up in my private
expenditure £2O repaid to Mr. Jones.”
“ Oh, hang it,” said the wary Jones, “ I’ll only
lose this —keep it till you happen to have the cash
in your pocket. I lost the last one you gave me.”
The Old Man sniffed, and returned the cheque
to his pocket, but forgot to tell his secretary
to strike anything out of his private expenditure
account. From which fact I guessed Jones would
strike trouble when the day of reckoning came.
* * * *
When Jones walked into Omapere office poor
old Millar, the harassed S.M., whose staff had
been reduced by a third in spite of his vehement
protestations, nearly took a fit.
“ What’s the matter, Mr. Jones?” he inquired,
rushing to meet trouble half way.
“That’s what I’ve come to see, Millar, What’s
the matter with you all—you look as though you’d
had no sleep ! ”
“I’ve not had much, Mr. Jones. Two of the
children down with sickness; wife worn out; can’t
get a reliable household help anywhere.”
“That’s the Devil. Well, don’t let me worry
you—go home and have a real good rest this after-
noon and to-night. I’ve got to find out what’s the
matter with the section generally—and I guess
your trouble is due to being short-handed.”
“ft is, indeed, Mr. Jones, and I hope you’ll tell
’em so.”
“ You bet your blanky life. Go home and have
asleep.”
“ Shall I hand over ? ”
“ Yes, just in case I have a smash—this place
worries me. Look at that flaming, addle-brained
fool kicking those half-unloaded trucks down that
siding—whoop ! There she goes ; I knew it! ”
ejaculated Jones as the hurrying trucks with
tottery loads banged heavily into a row of empty
ones and shed their bags all over the siding,
Millar tore his hair.
“ I’ve warned ’em against it till I’m tired, Mr.
Jones.”
“Right, come and hand over, and then I’ll go
down and put a head on him. Now he’s let
himself in for an hour’s hard work.”
When the worn-out S.M. had gone borne, Jones
meandered down the yard and accosted the
shunter, who was also' head porter.
(Continued on next page.)


STOP IT
K
Stop that Backache, for
Backache is Kidney-ache*
The easiest time, the right time, the only safe time to pro-
tect yourself against fatal kidney complications is when
the first sign appears, for kidney complaint comes on un-
noticed, and it is bound to end fatally if neglected. Take
no risks with your health, but begin with Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills at the first sign of anything wrong. Doan’s
Pills are a special medicine and a sure cure for every dis-
order of the kidneys or connective system.
Sydney Women Cured.
“Every
Eicture
Tells eu
Story.”
ARTARMON.
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road,
Artarmon, Sydney, sayk “ I suffered
fora long time with severe pains in my
back. They were so bad that I could
scarcely move about. Rest was out of
the question. I would be tossing about
all night, moaning with the pain. I
could not bend my back, and 1 had to
neglect my work. I was really very ill,
and would be confined to bed fordays at
a time. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised as a cure for backache,
and got a box. After a few doses I got
relief, and then gradually I got better,
until I was quite cured. There is no
doubt about it being a cure, for it is two
years since I stopped taking the pills,
and I’ve not had the backache all that
time.”
DOWLING STREET.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 133 Dowling
Street, Sydney, says:—“My mother
suffered with severe pains across the
back, and in her legs. For six months
she was very bad, and some days
would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did
her no good. We saw Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, and
thought we would get some and give
them a trial. After taking the first
half-box, we knew they were good, for
she felt a little better, and from that
on the improvement was marked, and
eight boxes completed the cure. She
is now splendid, and can get about
easily. It is twelve months since her
cure, and during that time she has not
needed to take a single pill. We feel
sure that she is cured for good.”
LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, says: —“I can
strongly recommend Loan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for curing pains in the
small of the hack. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it
was difficult to move about at all. I
blame sitting too close at work for
causing the trouble. The pills effected
a permanent cure, for there is no sign
of the ailment now.
Mrs. Lawson makes a second state-
ment four years later :—“ The above is
quite true, and time has proved that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills not
only cure, but cure permanently.
There would be less suffering in the
world if people only knew the value of
this remedy.”
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney, says:—“l used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for aches
and pains in the limbs, which I fancied
were caused by kidney trouble. The
pains had troubled me for years, defy-
ing all treatment. I found it very
difficult to get up and down stairs, and
fits of giddiness, which often came over
me, made it more distressing. Some-
times I would be laid up. Soon after
I started using Doan’s Pills relief came,
and when I had taken six boxes the
aches and pains and giddiness had dis-
appeared.”
Three years later, when asked about
her cure, Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes, I
am still quite well ; none of the dis-
tressing symptoms mentioned above
have ever returned.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes,
15s. 3d.), or -will be posted on receipt of price by
FOSTER-McLELLAN CO., 7G Pitt Street, Sydney.',
\
\
fa
The porter wiped the dust and sweat from his,
forehead with his sleeve, and looked at Jones
mutinously.
“ That business doesn’t pay, Gregory. Tt would
have taken you three minutes longer to shunt
properly, and in trying to save three minutes you
lost a good hour. What have you got to say ?”
“Oh, it’s you, Mr. Jones. Cripes, I could do a
beer. Been on me legs ever since seven this
morning, and got all the private sidings to clear
out yet.”
“ Too long ! Who’s that fellow hanging round
here ?” inquired Jones, jerking his head towards
a tall man in a grey suit and porpoise-hide boots
who was mooning about.
“ Blowed if I know. He’s been hanging round
all day and taking notes in a bit of a pocket-book.
’Spect he’s a noosepaper bloke. They nose round
like thieves, you know.”
“H’m! Well, we’ll shift him. Look here,
Gregory, don’t you try flying shunts with par-
tially unloaded trucks any more. It only means
trucks off the rails, and spilled cargoes, and general
waste of time. Now get round your sidings and
let the engineer get home to the shed. He’s got to
come out again to-night, hasn’t he?”
“Yessir. I’m a goner.”
Jones walked over to the tall stranger.
“ Excuse me, sir, but this part of the railway
yard is closed to the public. If you’re a passen-
ger, get back to the platform. If you’re not a pas-
senger, get outside that fence.”
“ Certainly, sir. Might I inquire your name?”
“ Yes, I’m the acting stationmaster. Will you
please get a move on ! ”
“ Certainly ! I’ll return to the platform.”
And he did. Jones went off down the yard and
inspected the points. He found them dirt}'. He
looked at the semaphore wires. They required
oiling, and in one place a heap of clinkers had
been piled over the wire that operated the lever.
He kicked it away with his foot, and shouted to a
passing lad porter to get a shovel and clear it
right away. Then he sped back to the office
where he gave clear line for the incoming train,
placed a red flag on the platform as a warning to
the shunter not to come on the main line, and
opened the ticket-office and commenced to book
passengers. A few minutes later the cadet who
usually did the booking hurried in, and Jones
wandered out, just to see where the shunter was.
He was on the main line, making flying shunts
into the various sidings. The starting signals
showed “ clear line ” right through, and the train
was due in 10 minutes. With an oath, Jones
glanced at the home signal—it was at danger.
And then his eye fell on the man in grey focus-
sing a camera on the shunting engine, and with a
gasp Jones realised that the plate would take in a
view of the starting signals at clear.
This hog was a newspaper man. With one
bound Jones made down towards the shunter,
with the red flag in his hand. As he came to the
photographer, Jones collided heavily with him,
knocking the man in grey one way and the camera
the other, and as he ran on he managed to kick
hard on the slide that held the plate.
“Gregory, you howling idiot. You son of
a , get to Hell off that line. Don’t
you see the starting signals ? By G -, I’ll shift
your flaming jaw when I get to you.”
Gregory looked up with a sudden scare.
“It’s all right, boss; the signals are against
him. He can’t come in.”
By this time Jones had reached him. He
closed his fist savagely—Gregory ducked.
“ Signals be hanged ! Suppose he can’t stop—
it’s a down grade. You must not shunt on the
main line after 1 clear signal ’ has been given. I
won’t have it. Get off quickly.”
“Back in—you’ll be half-an-hour late,” he
snorted to the driver; “but I can’t help it.
’Struth, what’s the good of signals if drivers won’t
obey ’em ? ”
Gregory shivered. Jones walked slowly back to
the platform where he found the man in grey
examining his camera.
“ You’ve broken my camera ! ” he said savagely.
“No, surely not. I’m very sorry. Can’t you
patch the plate together and save the picture ? ”
“Certainly not —the shutter was open, and
there are about 10,000 views of the yard on that
plate, all crowded on top of one another.”
“ Hoo-blooming-hooray !” whooped Jones.
“S’poseyou know you’ve no right to photograph
here without permission ?”
“ Wasn’t aware of it. And it seems to me, sir,
that you deliberately broke my camera to prevent
me getting the picture. You are keen.”
“So are you, sir. Next time you want to
photograph a railway station either do it outside,
or, if that won’t suit your purpose, get permission
in a proper way.”
“ How do you know I havenlt ? ”
“ Well, if you have, show it before you start to
the officer in charge. I suppose you’re on the
press ? ”
“You have broken my camera, and the instru-
ment is a valuable one. I shall require your
name, sir.”
“ Acting S.M. Omapere—be sure and put in the
‘ acting,’otherwise the wrong man will get the
blame.”
Then the conversation was cut short by the roar
of the incoming train, which came snorting down
the incline and pulled up at the platform. When
the train had gone the man in grey had vanished.
Jones looked out of the window. It was
Monganui. He threw his book into the rack and
stepped on to the platform. The S.M. rushed
past him with his arms full of parcels and his
hand clutching papers. He bounced into the
office, and sold some tickets to passengers who
were banging frantically on the window. Then
he rushed out and wheeled some packages of goods
down to the roadside van, which goods he placed
therein while the guard and the engine shunted a
truck into the siding. As the engine came down
the line and backed on to the train again, the
S.M. searched for the packages his waybills
showed had to come out of the roadside van. The
guard streaked past to check the parcels in the
van with the invoices. The S.M. shut the door
hastily and locked it.
“Are you right away, Mr. Green?” yelled the
guard. “We’re 20 minutes late already.”
“Yes, right away, Tom,” and he extended his
arm after hurrying down to make sure there were
no more passengers requiring tickets.
The guard blew his whistle. The engine
shrieked.
“ Are them goods in the roadsider for Burning
Plains all right, Mr. Green?” inquired the guard,
rushing to the window.
“Yes, I checked ’em, Tom. Get away
quickly.”
Then Tom looked round, and, seeing the car-
riages standing still, again extended his arm and
blew his whistle. But the whistle stopped sud-
denly, and an awful oath hit the welkin.
“What’s the matter?” yelled the S.M. rushing
out from the telegraph instrument, where he had
been listening to two messages at once.
The speechless guard could only point down the
platform where the carriages ended abruptly
without any sign of an engine.
“ Where’s he gone to now?” said the S.M. in a
harassed voice.
“He’s gone an’ left the train behind him—
didn’t you couple up?”
“My Garwd ! No, you fool—you were doing
the shunting. Oh Lord, I never dreamed you
hadn’t coupled him on.” And the S.M. gripped
his hair.
Jones strode down the platform on to which the
passengers were now crowding. He held his face
in his hands, and tried three times to speak, but
choked every time.”
A tall figure in grey came out of a carriage, and,
walking up to the S.M., inquired in a cold voice
when the train would start.
The S.M. gazed at him helplessly, and then
dived to his office. Jones looked up, and their
eyes met. Mr. Colenso’s lip curled. Jones’s fists
clenched, but he took a pull at himself.
The S.M. was calling Burning Plains on the
telegraph wire, and when the engine ran into that
station the driver suddenly discovered he had left
his train behind him.
“ Where’s your train ? ” inquired the S.M. in a
bland manner that was full of menace. The
driver was speechless. He stepped on the plat-
form and looked at the couplings, and suddenly
realised that someone had forgotten to couple up
at Monganui.
“Shall I run back ?” he inquired.
“ Yes, here’s your authority ! ” said the S.M.,
handing him a Special Train notice, for which he
signed. Then he carefully folded it up and
placed it in his coat-pocket.
**•»•*■
“How long have you been on duty, Jack?’'
inquired Jones as the engine backed down to the
train at Monganui.
“Thirteen hours, Mr. Jones, an’ it’ll be 15
before I get me tea. ”
“ I thought so ! The worst of it is there’s a
newspaper spy on board.”
“The Lord ha’ mercy on us a’, then !” said
Jack, solemnly. “ I suppose Green’s fair daft.”
“He is, Jack, he is. So’s Tom ! Here he is.”
Tom strode up and let fly a sirocco. The man
in grey hovered round.
“Get on board, sir, if you’re going on with this
train,” said Jones, haughtily. The man in grey
bowed ironically, and clambered into Jones’s car-
riage. Jones followed, and satin the seat facing
Colenso.
“ What paper do you represent, may I ask ? ”
“None, Mr. Jones.”
“You’ve got the advantage of me,” he said
briskly.
“How do you account for that fiasco?” in-
quired Colenso, ignoring the remark.
“ All I know about you is that you’re travelling
on a yearly ticket usually issued to commercial
travellers, and you’re no more a bagman than I
am,” said Jones dreamily, ignoring Colenso’s
remark.
“No, I’m not a traveller,” admitted the other.
Then a sudden light broke over Jones’s face.
“ Has it struck you that fiasco is a tragedy? ”
“No-how?”
“Well, there you have two men. The old
S.M., twenty years in the service—too old to start
at anything else. A guard, nearly the same
length of time—also too old to start again.”
“Well, what about it —why can’t they attend
to their work ? ”
“ What about it—what’s to become of them?
Don’t you understand—they will be sacked for
this? And the driver may follow them.”
“ Well, they richly deserve it. Just consider
the disgrace to the service of an affair like this
morning’s work.”
“Go deeper. Did you see what that S.M. was
doing while the train was there ? Not even a boy
to assist him. The guard likewise. The driver,
who had been on duty then 12 hours, and 15 hours
the day before, and the day before, and before for
months—-15 hours a day on a rocking, swaying,
jumping engine for 15 years. The men are over-
burdened, over-worked. And all because a
blasted idiot in Wellington demands that ex-
penses shall be cut down, and gives no hint how
he wants them cut; and another blithering fool in
Romahapa carries out the orders as a man of no
resource always does.”
“ By reducing hands ! ”
“ Exactly. 1 m out to see what’s wrong, and
I’m going to say what’s wrong; and, if you’re a
man worthy of your salt, you will tell Rodney
what is the real explanation of that blessed irregu-
larities return.”
Colenso looked at him. His face went red, and
then he looked out of the window.
“ Twenty years and too old to start again—fif-
teen years and too old to start again—the driver
also about 20 years of 15 hours a day, and too old
to start again. Call that management and jus-
tice? ” said Jones, softly.
“Well, it’s the Traffic Office’s fault!” said
Colenso, fiercely.
“It isn’t —it’s Rodney’s fault. Can’t you see
it ? ”
“ No; it doesn’t pay me to see it. I haven’t got
a private income of £8 per week, and I’ve got my
way to make. What will happen to me if I go
back and tell Rodney he doesn’t know his
business ? ”
“ Don’t put it that way. You can say anything
if you study the art of putting things. Make
your report, but put down everything. Tell how
that poor old S.M. was parcels porter, goods
porter, ticket clerk, telegraphist, pointsman, post-
master, Government Life Assurance collector,
book-keeper—the whole damned show. Point out
that flesh and blood, like steel, can stand only a
certain strain, and after that it must break.
Insinuate gently that the man who plays the fool
with flesh and blood, on which the safety of the
travelling public depends, is either a lunatic or a
criminal, and certainly not worth £2OOO per
annum.”
Colenso made a deprecatory gesture.
“ That is impossible ! ”
“ Well, put it this way. Our axles are made to
carry a six-ton load, with a three-ton margin for
safety. Everybody knows that. Everybody
knows what hours and responsibility a man can
carry without risk. If a manager, to increase
revenue, takes to loading trucks with 10 instead
of six tons, he’s acting the fool in a way that jus-
tifies either a criminal trial or an examination by
three doctors and a magistrate. But by some
curious oversight, it has not been officially recog-
nised that the man who loads human machinery
to the breaking point is as dangerous as, if not
more dangerous than, the other rotter. And leave
it to Rodney to fit the cap. He’ll respect your
irttelligence, and admire your way of putting it.”
“ I’m afraid ! ” said Colenso.
* * * *
Which was why Colenso received, a few days
later, an urgent telegram to return to Wellington,
and was astounded to meet Rodney at Omapere
on his way. The manager’s attitude struck him
as chilly, and his depression was complete when
the Emperor said :
“ Your reports are quite useless. I don’t want
to know all that is wrong. I want to know why
anything is wrong; and your reports throw no
light on the matter. Can you tell me where this
man Jones is just now? ”
Colenso said he couldn’t. The Emperor stepoed
back to his carriage; another royal raid had begun.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


4 £ After having recovered from rheumatic fever I was
so weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
V
w
W
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide.
AYER’S s arsaparilia
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disappoint
you. Get AYER’S." ________
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Jj
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
IN order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward you 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette,
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustrations.
FLORISTS SLED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. N SW.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
ach Capsule bears the name
m)
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, £lO, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
X Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Are you Bothered gt
by Biliousness ■
Many people are. It is a very common form of liver trouble, and a
very unpleasant one, involving sick-headache, nausea, dizziness, and
often complete prostration during an attack. When you are bilious
you require something that will effectively stimulate the liver and give
speedy relief, and there is no better medicine for this purpose than
BEEC HAM’S
PILLS
because they act directly on the congested organ, regulate the
flow of bile and carry off all impurities. But the good effects
of Beecham’s Pills are not only confined to the regulation of the
liver. The complexion improves, the dark circles under the eyes
disappear, the head clears, and the general health is renewed.
Beecham's Pills are purely vegetable and a safe medicine for man,
woman, and child. Take them as directed whenever there is need to
Exercise the Liver.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/H (56 pills) § 2/9 (168 pills).
When Mosquitoes annoy you
rememb 't how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for J
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard (
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. (
lade by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng. 1
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
m.
S:
z/i
m
w/
FREE. TRIAL / /
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live;, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any wav
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
** to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. ..£5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual Drice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue-posted free.
0 0
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all Hies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
iiruggists,
Groce is and
H ard ware
Dealers,
among wnom are
Sydney— Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell Sfc. ; Sayers Allporfc
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung& Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &00. Ltd*
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
STEEL WINGS
Tremendously Powerful,
Long Stroke, Automatic.
Australian Invention.
Write for Catalogue “C.”
STEEL WINGS
WINDMILLS can be in-
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
■n pills h*
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Ffee, Is.
The Lite, Adventures
and Collisions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
BHIMAUirS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervoußConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT * Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Cbtmitt*.
53
Men** for
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin noW a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published ..
rj r> (“ p To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
* riCC. this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments”
on receipt of this adversisement. Note Address
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “nmey House,” 151 EHzabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. ■... . HYDE PAFIK, SYDNEY.


*
00
X
X
CO
Q
fie
UJ
There’s nothing: like being: well pro-
tected during’ the wet weather—es-
pecially if your occupation keeps you
out in the open.
Our Winter Catalogue, No. 17, gives
full details of all oilskins, and we will
post you a copy—with samples of oil-
skin materials—on request.
The full length, Regulation, as illus-
trated, is a splendidly made coat. In
the “Oiiclad” brand, 10/6 ; the “Titan,”
12/6 ; “ Dugong,” 17/6
The famous “ Watershed ” Oilskin is
best for any purpose—riding, driving,
or walking. The “Dugong” costs
27/6, and the Rainbow, 22/6. All
carriage paid. Quote height and easy
chest measurement when ordering.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Hiues or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed atr. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKIHC PART— Strictly? ONE MAN Rock Drills.
l o«rs LWt & J LEM p RgERE 506
9
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
genuine dalata.
TRADt.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole Importers: JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
W. Circular Quay, Sydney.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.,
“The House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, SYDNEY,
JOHN HURST & CO.
Watchmaßers and Jewellers,
HAVE REMOVED FROM
321 George St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydney
LOOK
FOR
THE
NAME
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
sSffiff
Mining Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR
ATLAS ENGINES & BOILERS
SB— I mil i'*ll iWMm ITIII illll—Mß
ATLAS ENGINES represent the Highest
standard of manufacture, in every type.
A Good Stock kept in Sydney , Catalogues, Prices, and all Particulars on application .
BLAKE’S IMPROVED STEAM PUMPS
B>OL
Single & Duplex.
For Every Possible Service.
Large Stocks Carrie.
Write for Catalogue and Prices:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for Australia and New Zealand.
THE CARD CONCENTRATOR
ON GOLD.
Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, Boulder, W.A., February 11, 1908.
“ The Card Concentrator is still giving us satisfactory results.”
School of Mines and Industries, Bendigo, May 19, 1908.
“ The Card Table at the School does excellent work ; it is easily adjusted, and does not get
out of order.” DONALD CLARK, Director.
ON TIN.
Mt. Bischoff Tin Mining Co., Waratah, Tasmania, May 11, 1908.
“We have found the ‘Card’ Concentrator very satisfactory, and in future we will order
the latest style of deck.”
ON COPPER.
~T , , Kyloe Copper Mines, Ltd.. Adaminaby, April 27, 1908.
n,i,ve pleasure in notifying that the Card Concentrating Table supplied by you has given
eveij satisfaction in every way. It has done good clean work, and is a valuable acquisition.”
ON LEAD and ZINC.
„ T , , Thk b ?oken Hill Proprietary Block 10 Co. Ltd., November 20, 1907.
• Measure m informing you that the 20 CARD TABLES which have been installed
• • ' J reusing Mill belonging to this Co. have been working most satisfactorily, and are
giving excellent results.
ON BEACH SAND.
A T Ki • . , South Woodburn, N.S.W., May 16, 1908.
mnn '*? ver y satisfactory, and quite sufficient for the output of the pumps,
soon as we get the 15-inch pumps we will order more Tables.” C POULOT
As
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Sole Licensees &
Manufacturers,
Sydney &, Melbourne
