

A Word to the Wise is sufficient
R. G-. WATKINS &L, CO,«,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. ' NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, nls.w.
... AND ...
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
3E3Z Q IB .A. 3FS. TP,
-—**S-—'
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BE LT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St.,.Sydney
Take it back*
I must have
finc-Appk Brand
HAMS ®
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
A Paying investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks= Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
Cell , * (Lls/d&Cd u ~6h ifa&t'.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
SAVE TIME-TROUBLE AND MONEY-USE PERSAN CYCLE TYRES!
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COWIPS
—■»'■■■■ mi
“HOUSE OF LORDS”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
33 PITT STREET, SYmffHY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLE
THE WORLD'S BEST
OIL ENCINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traotion Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beokett St., Melbourne.
5«
THE
ONLY
ROOFING
WITH
PATENT
FIRE
JOINT.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER, THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
THE
ONLY
DAMP COURSE
WITH
PATENT
FIRE
JOINT.
REFRIGERATORS » fifTUp ” REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY WlJ* * **U**l« SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mm m nuui m
A BABY HEEIDON IS THE SUREST *
ATinrTtcrn
GOLLIN & CO.,
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1488.]
[Thursday, August 20, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.


TH n S ew V books. George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd
71 CASTLEBEAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Viereck, Nineveh and Other Poems, 6s, post 6d.
Noves, Forty Singing- Seamen, 6s, post 6d.
Shorter, Doia S., Collected Poems, 7s, post 6d.
Trench, Herbert, New Poems, 6s, postage 6d.
Standard Handbook for Electrical Engineers, Written and
Compiled by a Staff Specialist, 20s, postage 9d.
Loughnan, New Zealand at Home, 6s, post 6d.
Slingo & Brooker, Electrical Engineering, new ed., 16s,
p. Is. Kennedy, A Tramp’s Philosophy, 3s 6d, p. 6d!
Brinton, Modern Artists, illus.,colorand B. & W.,305, p. is!
Cruickshank, Princ. and Pract. of Boiler Construction, 15s!
p. 9d. Knight, Catechism for Motor Cars, ls9d, post 3d!
Friedberger & Frohner, Veterinary Pathology, 2 vols., new’
edition right up to date, 27s 6d, post 2s.
NOW READY.— UPTON SINCLAIR’S THE METROPOLIS, the “Jungle’s” successor, cloth 3/6
For Particulars of Books Reviewed on this week*s “ Red Page ” see our advt, in next issue .
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon ged
periods.”
The
Voice.
Organ
The Trachea or
Windpipe
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of stamps from C. HUDSON, Manufacturing:
Chemist, 6 & 7 Queen’s Place. Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
A Parable of Scarlet Stockings
IT was a Grey Day, and the Woman
woke with a Sigh. Every day was
always a grey day, and the Woman
decided to go to sleep again. But the
Little Wakeful Gods wouldn’t let her.
So she rose and sat on the edge of her
Bed, disconsolately swinging her Legs.
“ What shall I do to-day ? ” she asked
the Universe,
The Universe was Busy, and curtly
indicated as much by ringing the Break-
fast Bell. “(What shall Ido to-day that
it shall not be as grey as all the yester-
days?” the Woman asked again with a
Considerable Yawn. (Even though only
her mirror was looking, it was a Pretty
yawn. This Woman was wise, and had
assiduously learnt How.)
Then she noticed, scattered on the
carpet, the red petals of a Rose that she
had worn the night before. She thanked
the Rose-petals, for they had answered
her. “ I know ! ” she breathed. “ To-
day I shall wear my New Scarlet
Stockings! ”
She did not say her Openwork Stock-
ings, for she was one of Those women
who Always Wore Them. Her Winter
Blouses looked like Rabbit-proof Wire-
Netting ; and though she was always
catching Covert Glances she never caught
Cold.
So she put on her Scarlet Stockings,
lingeringly, daringly, with a Delicious
Tremor of Adventure. And immediately
the Greyness of the day had gone, and
Time and Space and Eternity blushed
Scarlet.
So she wore her New Scarlet Stockings
all day. And all day she felt the artistic
joy of the Dying Lobster who Never
Knew till he was Boiled how Beautiful
he was.
W
In the afternoon she went into the
City and adventured among the Shops ;
and as she strolled down the street she
Knew. She had on a Rather Short
Skirt; but, at the worst, if People should
Look, there was only a Soupgon of Scarlet.
But People—not even Rude People-r-did
not Look. But that made little differ-
ence to the Woman : she Knew. It was
an Adventure. All the afternoon her
mind played with the Delightful Possi-
bility that perchance she might meet
Him. But He was Busy in his office
looking for the Number of his Ticket in
the list of winners of Tattersall’s Sweep.
And everybody else was too Hurried to
note the Sunset of her Hose—and, really,
there was so little to Notice. But it was
her Delicious Secret.
At last she went home, and when she
went to Bed she hesitated as she was
about to pull off' those Scarlet Stockings.
It was a Renunciation. All day she had
been thrilled by the subconsciousness of
their Unspeakable Scarletness blushing
unseen, and now it was hard to Give it
All Up. It had been an Epoch in Scarlet.
So she Went to Sleep in Them. Next
morning she woke into another Grey
Day. For she remembered that it was
her At Home. A lot of Drab Cats were
coming. So she chose Black—Plain,
Perforated Black. And the Universe
went into Mourning.
But she never forgot. It had been a
Thrilling Adventure—and, perchance,
some Rude Man had Observed Them
when she Lifted her Skirt to cross the
street. Undoubtedly there were Lots of
Rude Men about, and it had been a
Windy Day. So the Woman sighed
happily, and that Day was a Scarlet-
Letter Day in her memory till she Mar-
ried.
\!/
This is a Wicked Parable about Wo-
man. The only Difference between Man
and Woman—apart from Matrimonial
Differences —is that one has Clothes
and the other is Clothes. To the
Woman the World is a Wardrobe,
and if she has Nine Costumes she
has Nine Lives. A Man puts on
Any Old Thing, and has to look down at
his Tie to find out whether he is wearing
his Blue one or his Brown. He could
not tell you off-hand the Shade of
his Socks. But a Woman thrills con-
sciously all the time she has on anything
New, even though it is only a Quite
Under-IJnderskirt. She could tell you
accurately how many Hatpins she has
Spiked herself with.
A Man will have One with a Friend
before he knows whether that Friend’s
Boots are Orange or Black. He will be
beaten by a Bounder at Golf, and not
know enough to remark how badly his
opponent’s Trousers Hang. But a
Woman has only to give One Glance at
another woman to Sum Her Up—and
Down. She Knows the Price of That
Lace, and the Material of That Skirt, and
where she got Those Shoes, and what she
put her Hair in the night before, and
whether her Complexion is All that it
Blushes to be.
And all her life she is Patting her
Hair, and Squirming to Feel that the
Third Button down her Back is doing its
duty, or Polishing her Shoe on the Other
Stocking, and Reassuring herself that
her Belt is Right where she can’t See it.
And a Pretty Hat to her is a Sword of
Damocles.
W
And it took a Dour Old Scotch Phi-
losopher, whom she Can’t Read, to write
a Scientific Treatise on Clothes ! It was
somebody as Bad as Carlyle who said
that it would Serve Woman Right if she
was Born the Shape that she Squeezes
Herself into. If Clothes had not been
invented, Woman would long ago have
become Extinct from Lack of Interest.
And there is a Bad Time coming for Her.
In the Day of Judgment she will feel
Annoyed because she hasn’t a little
mirror in the Palm of her Glove; and
she will fill in the intervals between the
Batches of Sentences by passing Cattish
Remarks upon the Hang of Her Neigh-
bor’s Shroud.
But it will be Worse in Paradise.
For there they have no use for Scarlet
Stockings, and there they Wear only One
Frock all Day—and the Day Lasts For
Ever ! But in the Other Place there will
be a Plethora of Perforated Scarlet Stock-
ings. So, with Luck, Woman may Get
There—and won’t the Feminine Angels
go Green with envy as they go Slumming
in Hades when they watch Her carefully
Lift her Skirts so that they Won’t Catch
Fire as she trips across the R,ed-hot
Gratings !
The White Man’s Menace
The growing menace of Germany’s
naval might has led Percival A.
Hislam to study the development of
German sea power, past, present, and
prospective, under the title, The Admiralty
of the Atlantic (Longman’s, Green, per
Dymock’s Library). There can be no
possible doubt as to the one objective of
Germany’s naval ambitions; and Bull has
got into the habit of waking suddenly at
night under the nightmarish impression
that nineteen battleships with brushed-
up moustaches were sitting on his chest.
Judging by the sensational war novels
and the articles appearing in the monthly
reviews, the “Blue Water” school has
given way to the “ Blue Funk ” school.
Germany will fight England as soon
as she considers herself ready, and
she is getting ready with a methodi-
cal thoroughness. England is in
the position of a father waiting for his
little boy to grow up, knowing that the
kid, who should be in bed, is practising
with the punching-bag in order, as soon
as he feels sufficiently like 'Squires, to
knock the old man out. No wonder that
Bull gets jumpy, and recalls his fleet, as
Rome recalled her legions, from the
frontiers of his empire, to anchor them
all round him at night. And yet Eng-
land refuses to take the simple and only
course that would stop Germany’s navy
from growing any bigger. England
admits that she cannot go on building
two Dreadnoughts to every one of Ger-
many’s ; but she could simply refuse to
supply Wilhelm with the cash to build
battleships at all. All that is needed is
a tariff. At present her Freetrade fool-
ishness presents Germany every year
with a couple of new Dreadnoughts.
The strain of maintaining a huge army,
and at the same time endeavoring to chal-
lenge Great Britain for the mastery of the
sea, is already making its influence felt on
German finances, and nothing is more ab-
jectly feared in the Fatherland than that
Great Britain, by the imposition of a tariff
on manufactured imports into this country,
will put a check upon that marvellous com-
mercial development which alone renders
Germany capable of improving, or even
maintaining, her present status amongsc the
naval Powers.
This volume gives a graphic account of
the manner in which Germany has
steadily and swiftly built up her sea-
power. Hislam shows how, out of a
people with little experience of, and
no love for, the sea, a race of seamen has
been evolved. This was, of course, made
possible only by the advent of steam.
The modern sailor of a navy is little
more than a mechanist; and the German
mechanist is one of the most efficient in
the world. This is amply proved by the
fact that Germany can construct a battle-
ship in exactly the same time as England,
while it can produce an armored cruiser
in five months less than England can.
These startling figures are taken from an
appendix to the Navy Act Amendment
Act of last year. And as for the per-
sonnel of the German battle-fleet, com-
petent observers agree that it is fully
equal to that of the British navy.
In a single-handed conflict England
possesses now, and will possess for some
years longer, an overwhelming superiority
of naval strength, gained by withdraw-
ing her fleets from her colonies to the
Channel and the North Sea.
vt>
But there is another possibility —a
menace that is steadily increasing in
likelihood.
The combination that would cause the
greatest possible trouble to us [says Hislam]
is one which has never yet been discussed,
although the possibility of its being made is
at least equal to any others that can be men-
tioned. There is a treaty of alliance between
Great Britain and Japan which expires in
1912'. It is a treaty behind which there is,
on our side at least, and in spite of a gener-
ally rhapsodical press, absolutely no force of
public opinion, while in Japan it is regarded
as nothing more serious than a happy cir-
cumstance which probably saved her from
an ugly mess four years ago. The Japanese
navy comprises 35 armored ships, all good
material, manned by an excellent per-
sonnel. We have four armored ships in Far
Eastern waters which could be disposed of
without any trouble. The distance from
Portsmouth to the Yellow Sea is more than
12,000 miles, and we should have to send at
least 50 armored ships to make sure of
meeting the Japanese in superior strength.
If such a necessity arose to-morrow, or five
years hence, the local supremacy of the
British Seas would be absolutely in the
hands of Germany, for we could not afford
to despatch any but our best ships to act in
such distant waters. It is a possibility upon
which it is not pleasant .to dwell. It pre-
sents far more serious dangers to England
than a Franco-German or Russo-German
alliance.
And in making such an unholy alliance
of brown man and white, it must not be
forgotten that Germany would be but
following the example set by England.
And Germany, shut out by the ententes
of the other white men, is eager to make
any alliance that is left to her; and the
probability of this Jap-German alliance
has recently been immensely strengthened
by the sudden predominance of Britain
in the new Turkey. And of the Japanese
alliance, Hislam remarks that:
It should not be forgotten that our kins-
folk in Canada and Australia, who are some
thousands of miles nearer the Yellow Sea
than we are, do not take such a happy view.
We may be apt to think this of little import-
ance, since the affairs of the Empire are
directed from London, and not from Sydney
or Ottawa • but it is well to bear in mind
that not for a century —a century, too, of
almost continual fighting—has England en-
gaged in a war for her own safety. With
the merely apparent exception of the
Crimean war . . . every conflict in which we
have taken part has been undertaken in de-
fence of our possessions oversea.
And when —or if—England sends a
fleet to protect us against Japan, Eng-
land will be at the mercy of Germany.
About time, isn’t it, that two things
happened—that England wiped out the
German fleet, either by the costly method
of sinking it in action, or by the suaver
and more economical method of cutting
off Wilhelm’s supplies by a high tariff
wall; and that Australia possessed a
fleet that could keep the Empire’s flag
flying in the Pacific and leave England,
unembarrassed by Empire weakness, to
look to her own menaced safety ? The
battle that will decide the fate of the
Empire may be fought in the North Sea ;
but by the time it is decided Australia
will be a defenceless, conquered territory,
easily held by the Japanese. Isn’t it a
more imperial part for us to help the
menaced Motherland by providing—or
showing a patriotic determination to
provide—for our own defence pending
the North Sea Armageddon?
♦
All this talk about literature not paying is
absurd in the light of the experiences of
Dugald Ferguson, of Otago. Eight years
ago he wrote a book entitled Bush Life —
a long pseudo-autobiography of an early
colonist’s experiences, written with little
art and much naivete, about as interest-
ing as these accounts usually are. Just
the rambling reminiscences of a writer
unskilled in his trade, useful only as a record
of personal experiences. But Dugald Fer-
guson, of Otago, had the perseverance of the
race that looks twice at a sixpence and then
offers to loss for the drink. He found a rela-
tive who believed in the book ; and, encour-
aged by its acceptance, Dugald, of Otago, got
a second edition published in London—by
paying for it. Here Dugald, of Otago, stepped
in, and by his own personal canvass of
Maoriland sold nearly 3000 copies. Fired
by these statistics, a Dunedin publisher pro-
duced a paper-covered edition of another
3000 copies ; and Dugald, of Otago, set off once
more to tour Maoriland with it—and sold
the second 3000. And now Sands, of Edin-
burgh, publishes a fourth edition on part
terms with the touring author. Observe
the moral. Here is a book of small worth,
of minor human interest, of minus literary
technique, of which the author, by merely
becoming book-canvasser, has sold over
6000 copies. Now, why cannot our bards
and short-story writers follow the canny
lead of Dugald, of Otago ? Why should not
the poet of Australia, like the troubadour of
old, wander from hamlet to hamlet with his
little book in his hand, followed by a lorry
with the remainder of the edition, and sing,
and recite, and sell ? Even if he got only
the price of a drink for each soul-spasm, life
could be made more than tolerable to the
troubadour.
Be Markham, George C. Whitney writes :
“ A word about plagiarism —I do not defend
Markham’s verse, but it seems to me that
he is less a deliberate plagiarist than an un-
conscious echoer. And, curiously enough,
it is often the cleverer thief (most great
poets are such offenders) who escapes both
charges,, because he is able to conceal his
debt. Without re-opening the whole weary
question, if a poet or any writer, or any work-
man catching up an idea makes creative use
of it, the taunt of plagiarism is idle. The
world will enjoy his work just the same. In
Science one discoverer stands on the shoulders
of earlier ones; why should it not be so in
literature? In almost everything strict jus-
tice cannot be done to those who deserve it,
and, anyway, why. should we waste time over
such a sterile task ? Is there a literary Star
Chamber to which to hale the unhappy inheri-
tor of the ages ? For ninety per cent, of the
world’s poets there remains nothing but the
great anthology of the Past (O. C. Cabot, for
example, will be known in a few centuries by
twenty lines or so) ; they are coral insects
building the great reefs of the word. The
question is not ‘ Who wrote it ’ ? but ‘ls
it well done.’ It is.”
The Government of Tasmania has issued a
Handbook of Tasmania, in five sections, com-
prising: Information for Immigrants, and
Statistics; “ Australia’s Playground and Health
Resort ” ; The Timber Industry and Crown Land
Laws; An Angler’s Guide; and Orcharding,
Dairy, Poultry, and General Farming. The
series is exquisitely and plentifully illustrated ;
and the informative articles are rendered
complete by special maps. Australian Govern-
ments cannot do too much of this sort of
advertising.


o
' r
A'
ALT
A.
&
Germinal “Perfectos,”
3 for 1/-; Bbx of 25, 8/-; per 100, 31/-
!L. & Co. Easy Pipe, Large Amber
Mouthpiece, 16/6.
Postage 4d.; other States, 6d.
Postage Extra on
Cigars —
N.S.W Box 50. 6d.; Box 100, Is.
Other States—Box 50, Bd.;
Box 100, Is. 2d. to Is. Bd.
Soothing' Sedatives
AT
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
For Luxurious Smoking try ARCHER’S
ALBION CHIPS, 2oz. tin, by post, 1/5.
4oz. tin, by post, 2/10.
It. & Co. Jesse Pipe, Vulcanite Mouthpiece, Plain, 3/-;
Silver-mounted, 4/9. Postage 4d. ; other States, 6d.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List of
Tobacco, Cigars, and Smokers’
Sundries, posted free on application.
- i"'" •
L. & Co. Pastime Pipe. Vulcanite Mouthpiece, 5/6.
Postage 4d.; other States, 6d.
La Insular “Bouquets,”
4 for 1/-; Box of 25, 6/- ; per 100, 23/-
Tm. & Co. Seymour Pipe, Amber Mouthpiece,
17/6 ; Vulcanite Mouthpiece, 10/- ; Straight Stem,
Vulcanite Mouthpiece, 10/-
Postage 4d. ; other States, 6d.
W:
La Coi’ona “ Castelares,”
3 for 2/9 ; Box of 25, 21/- ; per 100, 82/-
G.8.D., No. 1270, Amber Mouthpiece,
Small, 2/6 ; Medium, 3/6 ; Large, 4/6.
Cr.B.D., No. 45G0, Vulcanite Mouthpiece,
4/6.
Cr.B.D. Companion, 2 Pipes, one each
Vulcanite and Horn Mouthpiece, 14/-
Postage 4d. ; other States, Gd.
& Co. Simplex Pipe, Vulcanite Mouthpiece
4/6 ; Large, 5/- Postage, 4d. ; other States,
Medium,
L. & Co. Gilroy Pipe, Vulcanite Mouthpiece.
2/9. Postage 4d. ; other States, 6d. •
L. & Co. Birmingham Pipe,
Vulcanite Mouthpiece, 6/-
Postage 4d.; other States, Qd.
? JL i
f///sf//s ///’ )/////*< J
'/< /» 0*
i 8.1/11 1 ft | Imnwio ( astankda
Castaneda, “Casellas,” 5 for 2/6 ; Box 100, 43/-
Our
Cigars are
Top
Quality at
Bottom
Price.
Send for a
Box of 25
Triumph
Rothschilds
(post free),
8/6.
Box 100,
33/2
(post free).
Maria Cristina “Brevas,’’
3 for 1/-; Box of. 50, 15/- ; per 100, 29/-
SEMPER
EADEM
CIGARS,
50 Box,
10- ;
100 Box,
19/6,
post free*
SEMPER
EADEM
TOBACCO,
large
plug,
10d.,
posted 1/-
La Insular “Imperiales,”
5 for 2/6 ; Box of 25, 12/- ; per 100, 47/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium»
Brickfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MBIT
and other Als ° butchers’ produce, «
SKINS; Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
_ SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
XitdL.
SYDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
o weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
, . -Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their gram. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade “" BOOKS.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engravings, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Book of Nature, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, 1/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
Kino Koko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1 /-.
Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
II ow McDougall Topped the Score, 1/3. Dover’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio’s Decameron, 2/6.
Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under the
Tiles, 1/3. My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramage, 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
Date, Easy Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Cordage, 1/3. How to Mesmerise, 1 /-.
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits of Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
wives’Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/-. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. How to Be-
come a Clairvoyant, 1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture, lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
lOd. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/-;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, 1/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Bushranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smilkr Hale’s
Novels, Bd. each.
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘FRUIT salt ' assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
IMiIISICy as you like it ,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the «
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours —Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO.
Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
Ihe Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CD TAILOR-MADE D
•W* CORSETS. V>»Di
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
mstto
CORSETS
ever created.
i C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/|| to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL BTYLEB FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
„ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’a
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORD?
MAGNESIA]
c?
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calander., Hordern Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing l will be advertised in this paper on November sth.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
i results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns j
or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
DIGESTIVE ORGANS
DISARRANGED.
SLEEPLESSNESS.
Mr. James Bell, bootmaker, of 16 Parramatta-
road, Petersham, is not one of the fortunate ones
who escaped the invasion of influenza, which.was
experienced in this country a few years ago. Speak-
ing on the subject to our reporter, Mr. Bell said :
“Influenza is a complaint that has singled me
out for attention more than once, as I had an
attack when living in New Zealand, and again in
this country. If there is anything worse for com-
pletely making a wreck of a man, I would like to
know what it is. So far as lam concerned, it
made a thorough hash of my health, and a pretty
tough time I had before I made;any headway
against it. The heavy burning pains in my head
were something terrible, for they had the effect of
making me so despondent that I could find no
pleasure in life at all. If a man’s head is not clear
and free from pain, all the money in the world
would not make him happy, and I was far from
it, believe me. As each day dawned, so were
those wretched aches in attendance, as if for the
purpose of casting a gloom over my life. My mouth
was dry and parched, and there was a fever-
ishness right through my body, which was most
distressing. Not one of my limbs was free from
aches of a very tiresome nature —aches that were
positively painful, and when I stood upon ray feet
my legs felt as if they would collapse beneath me.
Together with these discomforts was a feeling of,
restlessness which served to intensify my unhftppi-’
ness, for I could not rest contented anywhere for
any length of time, and completely exhausted my-
self in moving about from place to place.”
“It would not take much exertion to tire you,
and vou’d be glad to get to bed at night? ”
“Well, for all the sleep I got, I might just as
well have been up and about, for that was one of
the peculiarities of my sickness. Although I felt
so feeble and tired that I could have dropped any-
where, yet when I retired to rest I found much
difficulty in getting to sleep. And I had gone on
in a very bad way for a considerable time when I
happened to be put on to a medicine that altered
the whole aspect of my affairs. An old employer
of mine from Melbourne saw me one day and
explained how ill he had been from the same com-
plaint as mine, and said that he had been quite
fixed up by Clements Tonic, at the same time
strongly urging me to get some.”
“ And you put his advibe into effect?”
“ I am pleased to say I did, and I consider it
about the best step I ever took in my life, for the
un pleasantness I was labori n g under began to vanish
from that date. I don’t think I said anything
about the dizzy feelings I used to have when my
head seemed to spin round like a top, neither did
I mention the unsettled state of my nerves, which
had become quite unhinged, and my appetite had
left me long ago. And the longer my sufferings
existed the greater the feeling of depression became.
The lowness of spirits was something terrible,
and I hadn’t enough energy to try and shake it
off. Sickness always fetches one down, and, my
word, it succeeded in doing so in my case. My
digestive organs were altogether disarranged, too,
in consequence of which I endured no end of dis-
comfort after swallowing any nourishment. Pains
affected me about the shoulders and the loins, and
in the chest there was an unusual heaviness that
testified to the undigested condition of my food.
But I came to the turn in the road when I began
to employ Clements Tonic, which is easily the
best medicine I have ever had any experience
with. And I. think that, as influenza and the
other ailments I suffered from are so frequently
encountered, it is only my duty to tell my fellow
citizens how they can be cured, as I was.
Clements Tonic is the thing. It added strength
to my enfeebled system with each dose, it invigor-
ated my nerves in a way that astonished me ; it
brought sleep to my hitherto restless nights ; it
provided the appetite that enabled me to eat; and,
finally, it restored my internal organs to that state
of healthfulness which enabled me to digest what-
ever food I did take. Report these facts for
others’ good.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JAMES BELL, of 716 Parramatta Road, Petersham,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subs ribed and declared at Petersham, this eighteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me,
3] ALEX. SMITH, J.P,


e'
U
m
*/§ i
IP _
»tss
/S//SS/S
'SJ
The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
.%axr Vigor
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
PreDared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
TEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Tour
money in full refunded without quf stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
c £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
and all lates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
wanted in each district.
I Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our » oedol offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO,, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
ACTIVE AGENTS
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Sydney.
“Two months ago my four
children, aged six years, five
years, three years, and seven
months respectively, were all
very ill with
cough, and the baby was also
teething. I tried SCOTT'S
Emulsion, and the children
are not only quite cured of
the cough, but stronger and
better in every way, and my
baby is cutting her teeth
without any trouble. I had
no difficulty in getting them
to take SCOTT'S."
(Mrs.) J. W. Tait
167 Chapel Street, Marrickville,
Sydney, N.S.W. 18/8/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why :
The above letter shows that Scott’s
Emulsion was successful in each case,
and speedily success-
ful. This was no mere
chance ; there was a
definite reason for it
—the intense healing
and nourishing force
of SCOTT’S. The
combination of ad-
vantages results from
the finest procurable
materials and the
original perfected
SCOTT process, by
which SCOTT’S alone is made and
which places SCOTT’S away ahead
of all competitive emulsions. There-
fore, when purchasing, don’t ask for
“ Emulsion ; ” ask for and get
Scoffs
Emulsion
—the difference between them means
a cure for you !
SEE THAT “THE FISHMAN WITH THE
FISH ” IS ON THE PACKAGE.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in
Medicines.
o
IRISHMOSS
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Alfcociis
Porous ’Pilaster
For pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
Allcock’s Plaster.
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied.
Rheumatism,
Co!uS, Coughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c. &c.
INSIST UPON HAVING
Allcock^
For Sore Throat, Coughs,
Bronchitis, for Weak Lungs,
and for painful and sensitive parts of
the abdomen, apply as indicated.
REMEMBER —Allcock’s Plasters have been sold by the millions for over 60 years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock’s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever.
Fot- Sale by Druggists throughout the World. j
Brand reth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1752.
Underwear
Made in
England
MARK
3QVUJL
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only ;
I. & R. MORLEY and IiEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘BIRD MARK ’ MEMO UNDERWEAR
mir
8 0@
I!!■*»!
B b£® * B® l '
—Jn
1 rr
"WfKf
I* 1 a'
r r7f
"rr
rr 'r
rr
rri ! rrr r
' rf rr
I rr-.
frn
V
CONo
0
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
pjn-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down !
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
jou of it.
We call Congo the “NEVER=LEAK ROOF.” We mean it.
■Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
1
Manufactured, by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
. Free
Sample
WriteTodm
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Refreshional.
God of our father’s blissful fold,
God of our mutton and our wool,
Our ships are not, our feet are cold,
And we are out to play the fool;
We haven’t got a navy yet,
But we’ll have one, you bet, you bet.
Now to the flapping Stars and Stripes
Lift loud and long
A nasal song;
Unfurl your brand-new pocket wipes
And make a boshter lay.
Hooray !
Together ! That’s the way.
HOORAY!
Hip-hip-hoo-(blanky)-ray !
God of our Uncle Ten-per-Shent,
That sits so heavy on our chest,
God of the absent landlord’s rent,
To Thee our prayers are now addrest.
Smile Thou OUR battleships upon
(Please God, we’ll get some later on !).
All honor to Chicago ham,
And Boston tea
(Squarefaee for me !).
Oh ! we don’t care a tinker’s d—m,
Just tell the band to play.
Hooray !
They’re coming up the bay,
HOORAY!
Hooray! Hooray I Hooray!
God of the Battles, when in fear
We supplicate for help from Thee,
Recall not how on flags and beer
We lavished our prosperity,
Nor how with a lack-lustre eye
We yawned and let the years go by.
Here’s how to Dooley and Mark Twain,
Also the Trust
That takes the crust
Out of the orphan’s mouth ! Again !
Fill up with foaming beer
CEar! 'Ear!)
Hip-Hip ! Another cheer !
(M’ dear,
Do hurry with tha’ beer !)
The fleet departs and we remain
Supported by the fateful post.
Around us lie the prostrate slain
(Of dead marines a mighty host !)
Look not, O Lord, on us with scorn,
We’re very tired. Red breaks the morn.
Ah-h-men
MAORILAND.
D. M. WRIGHT.
Mountain Myrtle.
Myrtle by the mountain rills !
Dark-plumed monarch, stern and scowling,
You that hear the thunder growling,
And the black sou’-wester’s howling
’Mong the wild Tasmanian hills.
Myrtle by the western springs !
Harp, whose chords have ne’er been smitten,
Land whose songs have ne’er been written, f
Where no tooth of scorn has bitten
To the inner heart of things.
Myrtle, myrtle, watching yet,
Where old Montezuma races
Down the water-worn rock faces,
Singing songs to lonely places
Set in ways of wind and wet.
Myrtle, myrtle, stern and stark,
Where they turned them from the questing,
When their sun of life was westing—-
Still your dark boughs soothe their resting,
Moaning, moaning in the dark.
Myrtle, myrtle lying low,
With the moss about you creeping,
With the torrent round you leaping,
And the grand old mountains keeping
Vigil as the seasons go.
Still to me your music comes
Set in chords august, specific,
When a storm voice, weird, terrific,
Beats across the waste Pacific
Like the roll of muffled drums.
Guardian of far peaks untrod
By fierce cloven-hoofed excesses,
And Humanity’s distresses,
Where no clamor for redress is.
And the hills look up to God.
Pillars of a larger sky,
Immemorial altars, folden
Deep in aisles all green and golden,
Whose white taper-stars are holden
By supernal hands on high.
On the wings of evenfall
Soft as clouds their sky-ways wending,
Or white angel hosts descending,
With the gift of peace unending,
When the dark is over all.
Like the sough of Southern seas
Comes to me the drowsy droning
Of the wizard priests, intoning,
When the Western wind is moaning,
Moaning in the myrtle trees.
VIC,
M. E. J. PITT.


o
£
El?
o
h~w
WUNDERLICH
METALf^
CEI LI NOS
Originated by expert Designers • • •
MODELLED BY FIRST-CLASS ARTISTS
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists •
Erected by competent Tradesmen • *
Decorated by skilled Colorists • • •
Modelled by first-class Artists
skilled in the interpretation of the
Designer's intentions, thus pro*
ducing the excellent modelling
for which our work is famous.
Write for JUustrated Catalogue,
56 PITT ST.,
SYDNEY.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
POSTAL ADDRESS : BOX 474 G.P.O. SYDNEY.
243 COLLINS ST..
MELBOURNE.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Cast)erea<rh Streets.
pr- transformations, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., in
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
STOCK.
Telephone 2138.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland,
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane, General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
aJ
u
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
Coco®
strong, steady step because it is neb in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
foße *foy
of Living
constant use ensures
A
mm
1
English watches
Prize Awards .-London 1851, Paris 1889.
London IBGZ. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fj CERTIFICHTE GIVEN
WITH EACH WATCH.
I
*
N
ROTHERHAMS
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
sw
For four months we have been
telling you why Sherwin-Williams
Paints and Varnishes are the very
best Paint and Varnish Products
that it is possible to produce-
why you ought to use them.
Now we want you to put them
to the test.
When you have need for Paint or
Varnish in your home, shop or factory,
or anything in them, ask your dealer
for Sherwin-Williams.
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. MORRISON, Sydney, New South Wales.
J GRAHAM & SON, Waoerly, Sydney, New South Wales. JOHN MEAGHER & Co., Ltd., Temora, New South Wales.
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd., Melbourne, Victoria.
CROOKS & BROOKER, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
COUCHE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & CO., Townsuille, Queensland.
R. S. Exton & Co. , Brisbane, Queensland.
Hockley & Co., Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. Fred C. DONNISON, Lock Box 811, Sydney, New South Wales. an
A. Parsons & Co., Wollongong ,
D. COPELAND & CO., Wagga Wagga
Frederick Ash, Ltd., Newcastle,
Charles Regan. Tamworth,
T. J. Phillips, Dubbo,
Bracey's Limited, Lithgow ,
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living- n it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
- 5 Mtittial Life Building's, MARTIN PLACEi SYDNEY. '
STUB
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay>
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
V J
. A
Hi r
He: : i
' ' I
:# j
i
■
:
■
■ m
A WOOD PKESBRVING OIL
AND DOUBLES THE of'TIMBBR
i ; "
■
, <,v...
m
s®
.y»r. :
mm ,
p
«
1
m
■ ;
• «-a<r
f/iiOAl


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1488.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 20, 1908.
Prick 6d
WHAT A TIME WE ARE HAVING!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleoo, of
Muggrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Tn'fc Bullktin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCBTBEB.S.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 18 6
Quarterly • ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sen'(Huy direct to Tim Bulletin 0/Wee Twenty-Six
Shillings, sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
toheaddressed to William Maolkoii, Managing Director.
IT me t<> Address Cotters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would, oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Bnsiniss letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, eth) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the gropes
super script-ion for “ copy.’’ Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
officials. The person -may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Sgeeitil Xtttire.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable, to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitied, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But. no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded, without stamps
for return it will be understood' that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable , Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot, receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not, responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Am u ten rs in, til ft etc n nil 11 hi.te.
Anyone supplying to Tuv, Bulletin original humorous
or other topicai drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
■trill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail frpm Messrs. Cordon and
Catch, Lydgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, Ho High Holborn, London, W.C.
South‘Africa .—The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson fond Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vango&.v'er. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine, and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Ca-ple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.—o. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt , Vhe Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llong Iyong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents' Spec,ini Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied, if desired.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 20, 1908.
THE LAST SHOVELFUL OF COAL-PRE-
SIDENT ROOSEVELT’S WARNING.
A little while ago, Roosevelt of the United
States spoke some words of wisdom about the
amazing rate at which the world is eating up its
irreplaceable assets, and he invited the human
race in general to consider where it may be
going to. That is the sort of thing that the human
race is not likely to do ; still, it might spend its
time in a worse fashion. When people talk of the
possible over-population of the earth, they only
mean, as a rule, that a time may arrive when the
earth won’t be able to grow enough food for its
inhabitants. But the food question is only a
fraction of the problem. Man wants a vast
number of things besides food. He wants woollen
•clothing, for one thing, and the sheep is an animal
that requires a lot of elbow-room. He wants coal,
and he is eating up his coal supply at a
stupendous and ever-increasing rate, with
a perfect knowledge that it isn’t being re-
plenished. He wants iron, copper, tin, lead and
other metals, and he is using them up faster and
ever faster, and he is fully aware that they are not
being replenished either. Of course, the metals
that are used up are still lying about the globe
somewhere —they have been worn to impalpable
dust, yet they continue to be there or thereabouts
—but, unfortunately, they can’t be recovered to
any extent by any known process, and, for all
practical purposes, they might as well be in
Jupiter. Then man wants timber for fuel and
building purposes and furniture, and for making
paper for the gigantic and ever-increasing horde
of journals that infest the globe, and the tim-
ber supply is only being replaced in part—a very
small part. He wants petroleum, and as regards
that also he is eating his capital. High-pressure
civilisation lives by dining on its own tad, and
when the tail is finished it will have to eat its own
hind-quarters. But Providence has put a sort of
chalk-mark on every animal, and if it eats itself
beyond that point the consequences are fatal,
* * * *
The human race jogged along in a small way,
peacefully and slowly, for thousands or mdlions of
years, consuming hardly any of its fixed capital.
It hardly required iron at all save for weapons
and armor; it didn’t burn coal 5 the timber it
used was naturally replaced by the growth of the
forests, for it didn’t use very much ; it hadn’t
heard of mineral oil; and the amount of gold and
silver it employed was hardly worth mention-
ing. But then it began to hustle. Almost in
one stride it so ate up the whale as an oil supply
that the fishery became hardly worth pur-
suing. It only started on petroleum in any
large way within the memory of people still
living, yet in 1904 it burned over 20,000,000
tons of the irreplaceable substance. The con-
sumption keeps increasing, and already large
sections of the United States oil regions have
been pumped dry, and the grass is growing
again where oil-towns boomed a few years ago.
The burning of coal on any large scale is quite a
recent business, yet in 1900 the little United
Kingdom alone dug up and used 251,000,000 tons
of this asset, and if the recent rate of progress
continues it will dig up 500,000,000 tons a year
before 1930, and over 1,000,000,000 tons a year
long before 1980. Yet Britain is only an item in
the world’s coal production and consumption, and
Providence seems to have completely gone out
of the coal-making trade. The rush to dig out
and use up metals is on the same increasing scale.
The world grows marvellously bare of forests, too,
compared to its condition of a few centuries ago.
The United States consumption of timber alone
eats up 100,000 acres of virgin forest per day,
a vast proportion of it being turned into yellow
journals such as HeabST loves to publish ; and
the United States timber consumption is a mere
speck in the world’s total. In fact, the impres-
sion is unavoidable that the world is eating up its
capital in a very swift fashion —most of it capital
that can’t be restored, and the rest capital that, to
all appearance, won’t be restored, until the whole
course of events is changed, because the ever-
growing multitude of man wants the sites of
the old forests on which to build cities, and
theatres, and public-houses, and sky-scrapers, and
sundries.
* * * •
So a time will almost certainly come when man
will start on the back track to the simple life, and
will look on the bygone age of iron and steel as
the great World’s Drunk. All theexcited civilisa-
tion of to-day depends on the use of things which
Nature seems to have left off manufacturing, and
when the supply runs low man will require to recon-
sider his position. He will have to go slow on rail-
ways, tramways, machinery, cannon,ironclads and
such like. He will no longer be able to permit the
hewing down of a score of huge trees to provide
one issue of a saffron journal, full of murders,
shrieks, ward politics, fashion notes, and execrable
woodcuts showing 'where the body was found.
He will rage commercially a great deal less than
he does, through inability to find sufficient new
supplies of gold and* silver to replace the worn-out
and vanishing “ meejum of exchange.” He will
manufacture less in order to save coal, and will go
to bed earlier for the same reason. Also he will
begin to take a different view of the population
question. At present the area which will support
a man is simply considered as the area which
will grow food for him. His wood supply
comes from somewhere else—he doesn’t inquire
where ; so do his wool and his cotton and
his oil and his coal and all manner of things.
When an almost treeless world, which has devoured
most of its subterranean capital, gets down to
hard business, it will realise that a living area is
really the area which will grow one human being’s
supply of food, fuel, wood for building and furni-
ture and paper-making, wool and cotton and sun-
dries ; and on that basis the idea of how many
persons go to a square mile will be quite a
different idea from the idea it is now.
* * * *
About that time civilised man will almost cer-
tainly abolish missionaries—especially, medical
missionaries—and all those so-called pioneers of
civilisation who have made a specialty of carry-
ing science to the heathen. The scientific pioneer
has spread among the heathen a lot of knowledge
that the heathen didn’t ask for, though the heathen
annexed it hungrily enough when it came to him.
This knowledge set him also to work at enthusi-
astically digging up and burning and wearing
out the world’s irreplaceable capital, and in the
process of doing so he made himself a danger,
with coal and ironclads and cannon, to the white
man who had recklessly taught him the business.
Also he and the missionary—especially the medical
missionary—have combined to teach, or even to
compel, the nigger to leave off civil war and head-
hunting and other processes whereby he weeded
himself out; and they have taken away from the
nigglt quite a lot of his diseases, and otherwise
gone in for uncalled-for interference, all with a
view to making the nigger more numerous. Only
the other day one of these advance agents of
civilisation reckoned that he had found a remedy
for the sleeping sickness of Africa, and it is hoped
that by this single discovery an enormous addition
of prospective iromusers and timber-burners will
be made to the least desirable section of the
world’s population. As all these rescued undesir-
ables will also be taught in time how to consume
other forms of the world’s irreplaceable capital
with whatever speed there is in them, the bank-
ruptcy of the human race is thereby a trifle
accelerated.
• * * *
There is comfort of a kind in the vague know-
ledge that in China, for instance, there is still a
huge area of virgin coalfield, and that iron
abounds, and copper is in great plenty. But
that only means that China will have coal and
iron when Europe has run short; and then China
can either sell its coal and iron to Europe, or it
can use them itself and hit Europe disastrously
with the proceeds. Europe is full of restless
pioneers of civilisation who will never be content
till they have taught China how to do this latter
proceeding. But it isn’t likely to be from China
that the first trouble will come. When a
densely-populated and almost treeless Europe
begins to see its last shovelful of coal
looming ahead many of its people will, of neces-
sity, step out in a brisk fashion for warmer lati-
tudes. A huge proportion of them will probably
have no alternative save to leave the railroad and
the locomotive and the sky-scraper, and the
yellow journal, and the rest of the civilisation, and
strike for a climate where they can lead the simple
though strenuous life without so much coal. Of
course, the natives of warmer regions will object
to the influx, and it is just here that the pilgrim
multitude will feel bad about the philanthropists
who taught these natives not to kill each other so
much, and thus choked them off their old habit of
remaining scarce. Also the folk who are engaged
in the great removal will grow profane re the
civilising.influences which instructed these same
natives in the making of guns and other
elements of progress. So, probably, the
Governments of Europe and North America,
after revising, in the light of the approach-
ing last shovelful of coal, their estimates of
what population the world can carry; will
throw theoretical humanity overboard, and decide
that, as there is going to be room for only so many
people these people will be the members of the
more progressive nations, and that the less pro-
gressive ones must go. Then there will be called
together the small congress of the Highly Civilised
Nations to arrange for the painless extirpation of
the Less Civilised Nations ; and the large Con-
gress of the Less Civilised Nations will meet in
tumultuous debate, and decide to put 100,000,000
soldiers in the field to argue the point, I hen,
too, there will be trouble for the nation that sits
on the fence ; the one that isn t civilised enough
to be invited to the first congress, yet is too
civilised to voluntarily join the second one. It
will be telegraphed to by the Less Civilised Con-
gress, asking it to join, and it will try to make its
position safe by wiring an indignant refusal.
Then it will telegraph to the Highly Civilised Con-
gress, saying that it is with it heart and soul, and
will ’receive the reply that it wasn’t invited.
And after that it will telegraph again to
the Less Civilised Congress, stating that it
has decided to perish in the last ditch along with
the members thereof, and will receive a further
response stating that, at a crisis in which the bulk
of the human race is to be wiped out, there is no
room for wobblers. About that time the nation
that wobbled *.vill go mad, and also drunk, and
also it will have fits; and religious mania will
break out, and there will be massacres and
incendiarism, and bankruptcy ; and murder and
bigamy will stalk horribly through its cities. It
will be the first nation to be put outmf its misery,
for the army of the Highly Civilised Congress
will invade its territory on one side and kill
half its people painlessly with some improved
long-distance form of chloroform, and the army of
the Less Civilised Congress will invade it on the
other side and kill the other half of its people
crudely with guns and axes.
* •* * *
When the trouble is over, the population
world will be reduced to about one-third. The
survivors will move into the tropical and semi-
tropical regions so that the dismantled pine-forests
of cold latitudes will have a chance to grow again.
Meanwhile humanity will burn cowdung. The
last shovelful of coal will be carefully preserved
in a museum. There will be few newspapers, and
only useful and educational books will be pub-
lished, because paper will be scarce for lack of
wood pulp. Such iron supplies as remain will be
in charge of the Government, being too precious
to be exploited by the reckless habits of Private
Enterprise. It will be a period of rigid economy
till the forests grow again to some extent; and the
area which can keep one human being in vegetable
food, wool, cotton, silk, meat, such timber as is
absolutely necessary, enough leather for boots, and
enough grass to provide his share of the paper for
keeping literature alive, will be measured out
with great care. For the prodigal days, when
the human race was using up its accumulated
capital—timber, coal, iron, tin, lead, gold, silver,
copper, mineral oil, natural and so on—with an
utter disregard for consequences, will be quite
finished, and man will be living on his current
earnings again, the same as he did in the cave-
dwelling times. The difference between him and
the old cave-dweller will be that he will have
rescued the knowledge of the past, and even if he
no longer has the material with which to build the
iron sky-scraper, he will have accounts of the
deceased abortion in books and pictures of the
horror.
».* * *
In those times that are to come humanity will
probably find itself burdened with another re-
sponsibility which it quite overlooked in the years
when it was taking no thought of the- conse-
quences. It will have to bale vigorously to
prevent the ship sinking under its feet. It
is a solemn fact that there is much more
water than land on the map, and though some
of the land is fairly high, yet if it were all
levelled down there is enough moisture, to cover
the whole show fully a mile deep, and that would
suffice to drown anybody. And the earth is
levelling all the time. Every shower of rain
wears down the mountains. Every river is carry-
ing down fragments of our foothold to the sea,
and casting them into the illimitable depths. The
whole show is flattening out, and it only requires
a sufficient continuance of the flattening process
to heap a mile of water over all the existing con-
tinents—Nature seems to have given up the
manufacture of new continents’ these days—and
then it won’t matter in the least whether Burns
beat Squires or not. In thousands and thousands
of places this short-sighted and prodigal genera-
tion —the generation which is recklessly using up
the assets which represent the accumulations of
all time since the Creation —deliberately hastens
the sinking of the ship by turning its sew-
age into the sea, or into rivers that carry it to
the sea, and by emptying the mud dredged out
of its harbors into the sea, and by carrying
out and throwing overboard condemned pro-
visions, regardless of the fact that one/ day the
solid matter in the sewage, and all the other
solid matter may be badly wanted keep
another generation’s head above water. There-
fore, a future generation may have an anxious
time building embankments of sand and rock and
old cruet-stands and biscuit barrels around the
earth in order to make sure that there will be any
earth at all.
* * * *
These are serious considerations, but humanity,
as a whole, doesn’t take them seriously. A
ridiculously large proportion of it, instead of
helping to economise the world’s resources,
is engaged in useless and parasitic occupa-
tions as solicitor, commission agent, financial
agent, customs-house agent, income-tax adjuster,
sharebroker, wool-broker, plain broker, arbitrator,
importer, dealer, jobber, middleman, hanger-on,
back-scratcher, and things undefinable. These
are the people who live on the people who are
digging out and burning the world’s accumulated
capital. In future years, when the workers of the
world are dwelling in tents in the tropical or semi-
tropical regions, and burning cowdung—after the
Highly Civilised Races have scientifically ex-
tinguished the Less Civilised Races these para-
sites may be found handy to hunt for and bring in
the cowdung. For man will have got back to the
simple, strenuous life, and will go to bed early to
save cowdung \ and he will have no use for the
person whose only occupation has been the
flotation of wild cats, save that the wild
catter will serve as a beast of burden
and a substitute for the horse (which will
have been eaten) and the locomotive (which
will no longer exist by reason of the exhaustion of
the iron supply). Whether the life of these
future tent-dwellers will be a better life than the
one we lead now it is hard to say. Considering
the obliteration of the sky-scraper and the yellow
journal there is a fair and reasonable chance that
it will be better.
PETROLEUM (CRUDE OR REFINED),
FREE.
The Freetrade Congress that has been trying, in
London, to boost up the falling daddock of an old
fiscal superstition, naturally threw off its chest the
well-worn statement about how Protection had
led to the creation of the gigantic Trusts of the
United States. Heaven only knows what the
Freetrade cult would do without that useful lie ;
it is an amazingly silly lie, and it has been dis-
proved over and over again, yet through a dull
process of repetition it still gains credence from
the ignorant. Anyone can buy books that relate
the history of the U.S. Trusts—though, unfor-
tunately, few seem to do so—and in every case the
story is the same. The great swindle invariably
begafi with an arrangement between the incipient
Trust and one or more Private Enterprise rail-
ways. Generally it began in a district where
there were several competing railways. The
Trust agreed to send all its freight by
one route, and in return it got a heavy
secret rebate in freight. With that advantage
its agents rushed round in haste, quoted lower
prices than any rival outside the Trust could
do, and scooped in orders and contracts far ahead
over a large area of country. In one sudden act the
business of its local rivals was almost gone. Then
the Trust bought up its ruined or partially-ruined
rivals cheaply, with money raised on bonds or by
a big issue of shares. The railway which was in
the swindle made money, despite the rebate, by
the great rush of new freight, and it reached out
and bought up or amalgamated with other rail-
ways. Next the Trust spread into new territories,
and made new railway agreements, and froze out
or bought up other rivals. It was the simple
story of a conspiracy between a syndicate which
planned to get all the trade in (say) oil with-
in its district and a railway which planned to get
all the oil-carrying business in its district. The
process went on till, in such a case as that of the
stupendous Standard Oil, the principal railways
in the States became pledged to charge any and
every rival concern an enormously higher rate for
the carriage of its oil than it charged to the
Trust, and to share the extra charge with the Trust ,
and thus competition, while railways remained in
the hand of Private Enterprise, was rendered
hopeless.
L . * * *
And, meantime, what had the allegedly in-
iquitous Protectionist tariff to do with the forma-
tion and continuance of this stupendous Trust—
the biggest sin of its kind on earth ? This is
what the United States tariff says on the subject:
Petroleum (crude or refined), FREE. .
Provided that if there be imported into the United
States crude petroleum or the products of crude petro-
leum produced in any country which imposes a duty on
petroleum or its products exported from the United
States, there shall in such case be levied, paid and col-
lected a duty upon said crude petroleum or its products
so imported equal to the duty imposed by such country.
That is all. So long as Burmah or Borneo or
Sumatra or any other oil-producing country cares to
admit U.S. oil free of duty, it can poiir its own oil
into the U.S. in cataracts if it so pleases without
paying a cent of Customs tax. But if it got the oil
there it would be no further forward. The
Private Enterprise railways are tied to Standard
Oil by a network of agreements, and the imported
oil could only be shifted from one place to another
at ridiculous extra freights, which would make
competition impossible. It couldn’t even be
moved from the wharf into New York city by the
Private Enterprise cart and horse without paying
twice or three times the amount that would be
charged to its local rival, because the Private
Enterprise cart and horse are pledged to
Standard Oil, which also represents Pri-
vate Enterprise. The large dealers wouldn t
care to quarrel either with the Private Enterprise
railways or with Standard Oil, so they- would
hardly touch or look at an imported article. Under
the blessings of Freetrade, oil can pour into the
United States ad lib., but when it gets there,
thanks to untrammelled Private Enterprise in
railways, riv-er steamboats and carts, it is
only a corpse on a wharf, practically immov-
able, and just about useless. And in similar
fashion the curse of private railway ownership is
the basis of every sizable Trust, Combine, or other
monopoly swindlo th© TTnit©d hs-s
produced. Toryism, which yearns for Freetrade
and privately-owned railways, tries to smother
these well-known facts; it carefully abstains from
telling the truth because that would reflect on its
beloved Private Enterprise, and it carefully tells
a glaring lie because it holds that any lie is justi-
fiable provided it reflects on the national and
patriotic policy of Protection. But the people of
the United States fully realise the position. No
one there dreams of fighting Standard Oil with
the silly, useless weapon of Freetrade; there is
quite enough Freetrade in oil already, and it does
no good. A stupendous struggle is in progress to
enforce the law against the granting or accepting
of secret rebates on the Private Enterprise rail-
ways—the iniquity whereby, in any line of busi-
ness in which a Trust has been formed, that body
may arrange to bribe or coerce the Private
Enterprise railway companies to carry no
goods, save those of the Trust, except at
rates so exorbitant as to make compe-
tition impossible. So it came to pass that
Standard Oil was convicted in one State alone of
1463 offences against the Railway law, and fines
amounting to about £60,000,000 were imposed ;
only Standard Oil and the Private Enterprise
railways, which it partly owns and is partly in
alliance with, form so gigantic a Private Enterprise
swindle, and have so much money with which to
buy the law and the law courts and the Legisla-
tures, that so far not a penny of the fines has
been collected—in fact, the judgment has been
annulled, and things are where they were.
And all the while the U.S. tariff makes the
futile remark: “Petroleum (crude or refined),
FREE.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wade’s Bill.
The curious connection that exists between
dirt and a certain species of piety was again
set forth last week when something that describes
itself as the Public Morals Association called
on N.S.W. Premier Wade to protest against
his Contagious Diseases Bill. Wades measure,
it must be explained, is not a Contagious
Diseases Bill in the ordinary acceptation of the
term. It simply provides that if a prisoner, male
or female, is found to be suffering from certain
very dangerous and easily communicable diseases,
he or she shall remain in custody until cured. Of
course, where disease is suspected, the law may
strain a point to capture the suspect—“ disorderly
conduct” covers so many things that almost
anvbody can be captured when the law
really puts its shoulder to the wheel but
that only makes Wade’s Bill an even
wiser and more statesmanlike measure than
it would otherwise be. It is a device
for the healing of the sick, and for no other pur*
pose whatsoever; the trouble is that a certain
terrible variety of religionists hold that the sick
shouldn’t be healed unless they live up to a stan-
dard of morality laid down by them—the terrible
religionists aforesaid. In that respect they seem
to be a lot more particular than the Redeemer,
who appears to have healed the sick as they
came to hand. Wade’s Bill doesn’t legalise of


recognise prostitution, or make it a whit less
liable to be moved on or run in than it is now,
any more than the existence of inebriate retreats
legalises drunkenness ; and only the most- aggra-
vated form of piety could regard it as doing any-
thing of the kind. Still aggravated piety is active
in the matter, and it is also numerous. It holds
that sin—the peculiar kind of sin that it has made
its specialty —should have its reward, and the fact
that the disease with which Wade’s Bill more
particularly deals is one which is liable to pass on
terrible consequences to unborn generations that
had nothing to do with the sin doesn’t seriously
diminish the ferocious enthusiasm of aggregate
Snuffle. It is devoutly to be hoped that the
N.S.W. Premier-will stand to his guns, and treat
Snuffle with the contempt it deserves. One of
the most urgent duties of the State is the care of
the public health. The public morals, except
when the want of them becomes a visible
danger or a nuisance, it leaves to the Church.
If the Church makes a failure of the business,
and gives no real value for the Sunday “ thrum,”
that is no reason why the State should leave off
looking after the public health. Even if dirt or
disease are aids to morality because, under certain
circumstances, they serve as horrible examples of
the possible consequences of immorality, the State
should look after the public health and cleanliness
all the same. The cause of morality shouldn’t re-
quire such shocking forms of assistance. The
person who is “ seeing snakes ” may be a valuable
lesson as regards the evils of drink ; but, all the
same, the law, if it is a sane and decent law, hur-
ries ’the valuable lesson out of sight with all
possible speed, and cures it to the best of its
ability; and the rule should apply all round.
It is lamentable that a certain brand of piety
should be unable to understand a small, obvious
matter like that, but in the march of human pro-
gress Snuffle is always at the tail end of things,
along with the sick and the baggage .waggons.
The Loaned Delivery-Cart Remount.
The Sydney dailies moaned in unison last week
over the chronic inability of the local Field Artil-
lery warriors to get horses for themselves and
their guns when reviews, etc., are on. The news-
papers’ plaints had reference to the sorry showing
the N.S.W. field forces would make before the
visiting Americans, on the dreadful old crocks
N.S.W. military men are ordinarily accustomed
to ride and drive. The dailies were not worried
from a defence point of view. The only aspect of
the matter that moved them was the likelihood
of the capital of the Ma State being made
a laughing-stock before foreigners by the
Presence in its streets of infamously-horsed
soldiers. Accordingly when two or three big
retailing-firms came forward and offered to lend
their vanners to the artillery-men during the Fleet
celebrations, the sheets which oppose a national
defence scheme breathed again, purred their
thanks, and settled back to forget the subject of
Australia’s horse-weakness till another Celebration
shivoo is on. It is a grotesque situation this —a
country which, 10 years ago, was world-famed for
the number and quality of its horses being driven
to depend on the charity of a few storekeepers for
>ts artillery remounts. That the lack in this
regard isn’t confined to the forces whose
eadquarters are in Sydney was indicated at
■Liverpool about the same time, when the bush-
en who make up the Light Horse Brigades
0 Jilised. Most of the horses of these troops
out to be of a fairly good class in their
ay- The trouble was that hardly any of them
re me heavy-weight mounted infantry class
i Was needed. In 50 per cent, of cases the
lighT V, w ® re barely up to their riders’weight for
1 eLif- a /Work, and no more capable of one day’s
r " ltlnaat ® cavalry toil with a man of normal
D na^e m the saddle than so many Shetland
g “’f 8 : The summing up of the S. M. Herald’s
M Corr ® s i Jon d en i ; ° n the spot was a fair thing :
a li' 0t - tl ? ese . l 10rse s could skip over six furlongs with
with u!i eig ' ht jockey up, but half a day’s quick work
8 >ck lim ' ? r 15sC - on their backs would put them on the
have k , es > or > what is more probable, they would
Th 6 t0 be abandoned altogether.
P. a P er printed unobtrusively, in the same
has Vp the following news item —one of a sort it
the rd ® n „P u blishing once a month, or oftener, for
P as t five years
of 200 horses, intended for .remounts.for
away to-S* 1 v rces ' n Sbuth-west Africa, will be taken
Tederal-H^m b y the steamer Everton Grange, of the
fully spW?j er-Shire line. The horses have been care-
Those f fc( ’ altogether are a fine lot.
cousth>?f W ' Ule , a ’ modestly hidden away in a corner,
te a whole sermon on the text of the Aus-
tralian fighting man’s inadequate horse, which the
S. M. Herald’s correspondent stars in the centre
of the paper. “Fine lots ”of horses which have
been “ carefully selected ” by foreign buyers
stream out of this country every month towards
German S.-W. Africa. There is another steady
flow in the direction of India, Ceylon and Java.
The Japs have started stud farms with the best of
the Commonwealth’s available blood stallions and
brood mares (Bt. Ilara, Victory and Artillerist are
examples); and they are buying as many more of
the same class as they can lay hands upon. It
is a tragic circumstance which accounts al-
most entirely for the weeds which the
local soldier, lamentably infrequent as he is,
has to put up with. The droughts do
little, when all is said and done, in the way
of thinning the Commonwealth horse-assets; and
a tax on stallions (a frequently-suggested move
for checking the breeding of light and under-
sized stock) would in all likelihood defeat its own
end. Nothing but the rigid prohibition of the
present craze for horse exporting-will avail in the
long run. In view of the near advent of Prime
Minister Deakin’s citizen soldiery scheme, the
Commonwealth —which, presumably, doesn’t
hanker to depend all the time for its remounts on
the charity of tradesmen —will do well to act firmly
and soon.
♦
“ The Loyalists.”
When the Sydney tramway men recently resumed
duty after Premier Wade had promised that con-
ductor Croucher should be “ tried ” before an
outside, non-departmental tribunal presided over
by a Judge, and Commissioner Johnson had pro-
mised that the men should get their old billets
back again as soon as possible, the Employers’
Union put up £5OO as the beginning of a subscrip-
tion to reward what it called “the loyalists.”
“ The loyalists ” were, of course, the men who
helped the Commissioners against the strikers
who were fighting for a fair and judicial trial.
One cheerful humorist wrote to the S. M. Herald
and suggested that the first outsider who “came
to the assistance of the Commissioners” should be
given a special silver badge to wear in his cap
that the public might honor him. The public and
the press knew that the blacklegs, as a mass, were
in the shadow of death once the old hands re-
turned to work. The blackleg always is, and
although the start of each new strike hears wild
promises that the men who take the strikers’
places will be kept on for ever and ever,
they are usually all emptied out within a few
months after the old hands return to work. It is
according to the nature of things. The blackleg,
generally, is an inferior man—mentally, physic-
ally, and morally. And when he has served his
purpose as a strike breaker, his shortcomings find
him out, and he is pitched forth as weighed and
found wanting. Of course a few survive, but in
the mass the result is always the same. The in-
ferior blackleg, once peace is restored, is crushed
out by the competition of his more robust rival,
the unionist. So, to temper the wind to the nude
lamb perhaps, but more probably to impress the
Unionists with the idea that disloyalty to the
boss doesn’t pay, the Employers’ Federation
initiated a reward fund. At time of writing it
has swelled from £5OO to £1350, and as there were
roughly 300 blacklegs taken on, and about 200
men who did not come out on strike, each
“loyalist” is already due to receive about £3,
which, although more than the thirty pieces
that Father Judas had handed out to him,
will not be* a very munificent price for
their treachery to their own class. Probably
it would have been much less if some of
the people whose names appear on the list had
known the characters of at least a few of the gen-
try who will share in the money. Among others
who “ came to the assistance of the Commission-
ers ” very early in the fray, was a gentleman who
had served the Crown some considerable time as a
sly-grog tout. He was one of a precious pair who
were supplied by the police with money that they
might induce keepers of houses of ill-fame to
furnish them with liquor. Having become too
well known in very unpleasant quarters to be of
any further use in his perfectly lawful, but gener-
ally despised, occupation as a brothel spy, he took
advantage of the tram strike to secure what he
considered a light job. He will share in the
loyalty fund. Another gentleman who will also
have his reward was, at the time he came to the
assistance of the Commissioners, an ex-con-
ductor who had been dismissed in disgrace
for' a heartless swindle perpetrated on a
very decrepit old-age pensioner. Having just
drawn her pension she tendered him half a
sovereign. He gave her change for a sixpence,
and, when she timidly explained that he had
made a mistake, he tried bluff. But the other
passengers took action, and proved him a liar and
a thief, and he was booted out of the service. To-
day he is back in the service, a loyalist whom the
S. M. Herald, the Telegraph, and the Em-
ployers’ Federation delight to honor. A third
“loyalist” was an ex-conductor who had been
bowled out “flying canaries” and dismissed in
disgrace. He afterwards served a sentence of 18
months for pilfering from his employer. His hair
hadn’t grown long enough to require cutting more
than twice when the Commissioners took him
back. Certainly some of the blacklegs Ought to
have distinguishing marks.
♦
The Freetrade Ideal.
That fine old stalwart of the Freetrade cause,
London Spectator, has wept tears in public over
the decay of Freetrade ideals shown in the toler-
ance given by the Cobden Club to such new
departures as old-age pensions. And, in conse-
quence, there has been a shout of alarm from
other papers, which still hope to save some
tattered remnant of the Freetrade banner out of
the dustbin, and a tumultuous assurance that
there is no antagonism between Freetrade and
social legislation. Therein they talk not the
truth, but rather discourse through the belltopper.
The Freetrade theory as originally propounded
by Mill and Cobden and Bright had at least the
merit of logical completeness. In brief, it was
that trade and manufactures prosper best on indi-
vidualistic lines ;’ that all State interference is
harmful and vicious, and tends to upset the
natural balance of things ; that if the peoples of
the earth are left to find out things for them-
selves by experience—the asperities of which
are alleviated by no Protection or other
restrictive legislation—in time the fittest will
survive. Each people will discover what it can
most profitably produce, and with free inter-
change of products all over the world the ideal
condition of world-wide economical production
will be arrived at. With any of the essential
fallacies of this theory The Bulletin does not
propose now to deal; it wishes only to point out
that there is no room in a civilisation based on the
pure Freetrade theory for any social legislation.
Interference spoils the balance and vitiates the
whole result. The early Freetraders recog-
nised this clearly, and fought fiercely against
legislation to relieve young female children
from the degrading work of the coal pits.
They were equally hostile to anti-adulteration
laws, on the ground, to quote the exact words of
their leading apostle, that “Adulteration is a
form of competition”—and free competition is
the Freetrader’s joss. Similarly, they were bound
to object to old-age pensions, because even the
very aged can, as a rule, do something, and old-age
pensions tend to take off the market a form of
very cheap labor, and thus diminish competition
and raise the price of the labor that remains on
the market. In fact, the doctrine of Freetrade
and Free Competition was the doctrine of Simon
Legree : “Put ’em through sick or well, and
when one nigger’s dead buy another.” There are
two definite theories of economics. One holds
that the collective wisdom and collective con-
science of the people can best control
the organisation of industry, therefore it in-
volves Protection and Labor legislation, Arbitra-
tion, Factory Acts, Pure Food Acts, Old-Age
Pension Acts and the like. The other is indivi-
dualistic, and it holds that the industry of a nation
is best left with absolutely no interference on the
part of the State; it involves Freetrade, bars all
labor legislation, and to be logical, must even look
askance at charity, as a pernicious interference
with the laws which make foT the survival of the
fittest. It doesn’t quite draw the line at hos-
pitals, because a hospital can often repair the
working machine at a cost which is less than the
value of the repaired machine, but in a general
way the workman is its nigger, and it believes
that he should compete as long as he can, and
then be “scrapped” like any other trade im-
plement.
♦ —:
The Social Revolutionists’ Fleet Welcome.
Tom Mann’s Social Revolution party is waiting
in Melbourne with a few thousand leaflets to aim
at the defenceless sailors of the U.S. Fleet.
“ Comrades and brothers of the United States,”
says Thomas Beer-and-Water, “we know, and
are fully confident that you also know, that the
armies and navies of the world are utterly inimical
to the true interests of the workers, and exist ex-
clusively in the interests of the Dominant Plu-
tocracy.” And then Thomas and his comrades
proceed to point out that there are millions existing
in Horrible Poverty, and millions more of Little
Industrial Slaves who have to work 10 hours a day
in America ; and the millions who can’t get work,
and the millions more who have to work too
much, would be better off if there were no vast
standing armies and no waste of war. Which, of
course, is quite true. Also, we should be better
off if we didn’t have to pay policemen, and if we
didn’t have to go to the expense of buying locks
for our doors, and if gaols and reformatories
could be abolished. If people would drink less
bad whisky, and put their feet in mustard and
water when first they sneeze, and wear flannel
next their skin, half the hospitals would be un-
necessary. And if some more people behaved just
as they ought to, three-fourths of the lawyers could
be put to growing potatoes, and Mr. Justice Simp-
son might be by this time a distinguished
pumpkin purveyor. The man who writes this
happened to think just now that the tram-
line repairers outside are making a horrible
row this morning; and while he was think-
ing of the row he probably spelt beer with
an i, and that will give the editor a job that ought
to be totally unnecessary. Altogether the num-
ber of things that ought to be totally unnecessary
in this world is amazing : they only become neces-
sary because people put water in the beer and do
other things that they shouldn’t. And that is just
where the army and the navy come in. They ought
to be totally unnecessary, and they wohld be totally
unnecessary if everybody was wise and fair, and
nobody ever wanted to get the better of anybody
else, and everybody was always ready to settle
any little difference of opinion he might have
with somebody else over a quite unnecessary cigar
and an entirely superfluous whisky-and-soda.
But until everybody is built' that way, then the
yarn about armies and navies being maintained
“exclusively in the interests of the Dominant
Plutocracy ” is all bosh and moonshine. Tom
Mann and the rest of that crowd profess to despise
wealth ; there are, they quite truly say, many
better things than wealth. Those better things
need protection just as much as the wealth does.
If an Asiatic horde of lecherous semi-savages
swept down upon Australia, the Australian hus-
band and father wouldn't give many thoughts to
the £5 he had in the Savings Bank. His fears
would be for his home, and it would be for his
home he would fight; the Savings Bank, with all
the evidences of his plutocracy, could take care of
itself.
Cheap Food.
“ ,T.P.” : Said the Sydney Daily Telegraph
(6/8/’08) in a burst of splendid mendacity ;
The amusing fact that British-cpneumers of Australian
butter are paying- little more than half the famine price
now demanded here affords a glimpse of the daily bless-
ing that the Freetrade policy is to the British people.
They live on the abundance of the whole earth. They get
the best of food, because it is untaxed and purchased in a
market which is the world’s splendid example of unre-
stricted international competition. In no other country
in the northern hemisphere are the wrge-earning classes
so variously, amply and cheaply nourished as they are in
Great Britain, etc., etc.
I was never a wage-earner in Great Britain, but
during a fifteen years’ residence there I saw some-
thing of the wage-earning classes. I spent several
winters in N. Devon. The wealthiest of the
agricultural laborers in the neighborhood of the
town where I stayed earned 9s. a week and had a
kind of kennel-cottage rent free. For that he
worked from daylight till dark. He had a family
of four or five to support. Meat once a week was
the limit of luxury for these people ; for the rest
they had bread, potatoes, beans and, very occasion-
ally, a horrible sort of bacon. As a matter at
curiosity I once fed at one of the countless
“Lockhart’s” restaurants which are dotted about
all over London. They are frequented by the
urban wage-earners whom the Telegraph men-
tions as living “on the abundance of the whole
earth.” The tariff is Id. for a meal, or, if you are
on a “burst,” 2d. As I was after experiences, I
tried both. For Id. I got a mug of alleged tea.
It was hot, reddish-colored and sweet, but did
not otherwise resemble any drink I had ever be-
fore encountered. Beside it was placed a round
of margarined bread. I passed this refection,
and for a further 2d. got “ coffee, ” more bread,
some treacle and an evil-looking little mince-
meat tart. The restaurant was full of
wage-earners. Eighty per cent, of them
were dining for either 2d. or Id. The plates were
made of tin, and were chained to the table, as
were the knives and forks. This was in case some
wage-earner, rendered feckless by repletion,
should try'his hand at purloining. It must not
be imagined that these restaurants are semi-
charitable institutions. They are the Carltons
and Savoys of the 'masses, and pay the company
which runs them good dividends. You will see
the pick of the manual toilers, and the poorer
sorts of clerks and shophands, crowding into
them by the hundred during the dinner and
tea hours. And there are feeding-places on
the south side of the Thames and east of Liver-
pool-street station whose tariffs are even more
moderate than the tariff at Lockhart’s. An
“amusing fact” that the Telegraph doesn’t note
in connection with “the daily blessing of Britain’s
Freetrade policy ” is that it is in connection with
the scanty and bad food question mainly that the
poorer electors are throwing out Freetrade candi-
dates at each succeeding by-election in the
United Kingdom nowadays. The British worker
x'eally pays more in taxes levied on his food and
drink and smokes than any other toiler on earth.
The point where the Freetrade blessing conies in
is that the duties are carefully arranged, so th.at
they will only raise prices and yield revenue, but
won’t give a shred of extra work to anybody.
o
The N. S.W. Government has sent orders to
England for 75 locomotives. This makes 140
locomotives ordered in England in two years, Rta
cost of about £650,000. Yet Treasurer Waddell
admitted cheerfully in the Assembly, quite recently,
that engines every whit as good can be built, and
are built, in N.S.W. Possibly they would cost a
little more on paper than the imported boxes of
tricks, but it is almost dead certain that they
would cost a vast amount less in reality. Roughly
speaking, the income of the people of N.S.W. —
men, women and children all averaged—is about
£5O each per annum. In 1907, according to
Statistician Knibbs, the people of N.S.W. paid
the Government, in one form and another, over
£8 15s. each. That is saying nothing of what they
pay in local rates, or of what they pay to the
Federal authority. So this is the situation : The
£325,000 a year which goes to England to pay for
engines would, if the ore were dug here, and the
iron and steel produced here, and the locomotives
built here, supply the means of support to 6500
people. These people would pay to Treasurer
Waddell, in one way and another, about £57,000
a year in revenue, apart from what they would
pay in local rates and apart from their contribu-
tions to the Federal Treasury, and quite apart
from the fact that they would represent about an
extra 1000 adult male defenders of Australia.
Therefore, in mere sordid cash, it would pay
Treasurer Waddell to give £382,000 for N.S.W.-
made engines rather than £325,000 for imported
ones, and if the value of 100'* possible defenders
is reckoned in, it would pay him to give a lot more
than £382,000. Under these circumstances,
Twaddell and his boss, Wade, might do well
to reconsider this unpatriotic importing disease
that they have got so badly.
<• :
“0.K.”: A. mighty long sermon might be
preached from the texts of recent paragraphs in
Melb. Age :
Now that Victoria is so largely dependent upon Queens-
land for its meat supply, the precautions that are taken
to ensure its wholesomeness are of more than usual con-
cern to the consumer.
Here is a sparsely-populated country compelled,
by the sinful shortcomings of its Government in
the matter of land legislation, to import meat
from the northern end of the continent. Leaving
side issues out of the question, and confining our
attention, deah friends, to the absurdity of import-
ing meat to a State where the cry is “ Land, land
everywhere, and not a bit to be got,” we come to
another paragraph in the same newspaper :
During the past 12 months the Victorian meat exporters
have opened up an extensive trade in boned meat, no
fewer than 18,300 half-cwt. cases having been forwarded
to the English markets for the year.
The policy of exporting beef and mutton (and of
establishing Government freezing works to con-
venience exporters) from a State that imports
meat would be defensible on national business
grounds if the price obtained for the home-grown
meat that goes out were greater than the price
paid for the foreign meat that comes in. But the
producer makes a loss for himself and the State
by sending beef and mutton abroad, in so far that
the local butcher, not to mention the local con-
sumer, would gladly pay him much more money
for the goods than they realise on the London
market. The exporter increases the household
expenses of many townspeople and diminishes the
purchasing power of their incomes by selling
prime sheep and cattle (dead, disjointed and
frozen) cheaper in London than inferior sheep and
cattle can be sold at for immediate cooking pur-
poses in any of the large Victorian towns.
Which anomaly of commerce is just now especi-
ally conspicuous in Melbourne—where nearly half
the Vic. population is located —because food-
stuffs of every description have enthusiastically
risen to a great occasion, and a “fleet ” tariff of
prices is agitating the public soul.
+
Last year the N.S.W. Gove:**i men t abandoned in
a huff i s measure for doing away with unpaid child
labor m dressmakeries and other spheres of
industry, because the Assembly fixed the mini-
mum wage at ss. a week —a rate which struck the
Dribbling and Reform Ministry as exorbitant.
Therefore things remain as they were, and what
that means may be gathered from the latest
official Labor and Industry report regarding the
Newcastle district. Some extracts :
Of the 522 females employed by milliners and dress-
makers, 245 so-called apprentices were in receipt of
nothing- per week, and CO others were paid 3s. or less per
The Fleet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You rise upon our vision
As morning’s light grows red,
Steam slow in grand precision,
And past the frowning Head
You sweep in glory splendid
To mock our feeble powers,
Till shame with glee is blended,
O Fleet that is not ours !
We count one common danger
Across the seas you cleave —
A subtle one, a stranger
Who grins and makes-believe.
And vexed by will unsteady,
Or dulled while danger lours,
We seethe answer ready—
Fleet that is not ours !
Our trust is on no warrant
Save kindred blood and pride
That war in its red torrent
Will find us side by side.
When pale within our borders
Each anxious city cowers,
Who’ll take our trembling orders ?
A Fleet that is not ours ?
Search through the wide Pacific
For proof of our domain
In ships and guns terrific —
And you will search in vain.
Our own white people’s blessing
The plotting alien dowers;
You love not such caressing,
Proud Fleet—that is not ours !
Oh, wake us from our dreaming
With vision of your pride,
Till on those waters gleaming
Two fleets are side by side;
Puny at first, albeit,
Yet striding on to powers,
Till far-off watchers see it—
A Fleet that’s wholly ours !
vic.
L.
To a Visiting Admiral.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Admiral Sperry, on getting up to reply, received a tre-
mendous ovation, the whole assemblage rising and cheer-
ing. The speaker recalled the time when Americans were
told that they had the strongest navy in the world when
they only had seven rotten monitors. —Report of M.L.
State banquet to the American Admiral and his officers.
Accept our sympathy, in retrospect.
Like ev’ry other patriotic brave,
You, my good Sperry, used to grieve, reflect-
ing on your country’s weakness on the wave.
You swore, we’ll swear, a generation back
Each time you met a U.S. monitor,
And brooded drearily upon its lack
Of power to harm a fishing-smack in war.
Japs, likewise Chows, in those dark days of yore
Trod your Pacific slope with myriad feet,
And no one said them nay. (One cannot draw
The color-line without a decent fleet.)
It was a jumpy deed to navigate
Those monitors; it chilled the marrow-bones
Of salts who did not court the painful fate
That prefaces the trip to David Jones.
Yet all the time (was it not maddening ?)
Your long-shore deep-sea experts cheered like
mad.
They held those worn-out ships were just the thing,
The “fleet ” the grandest nation ever had.
Sperry, we guess just how you felt effete
Two decades back, ere to the naval plough
Yanks set their hands and furrowed up a Fleet —
What you felt then is just what we feel now.
N.S.W.
J.D.


CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are Headquarters for and represent
the Greatest Makers of the World. We have
an Extensive Stock to select from.
NEW FILM SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
Write or call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 356 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Robert M. Osborn, Esq., publisher,
Adelaide, S.A., recently said :—“ Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy is a splendid medicine for coughs
and colds, and especially for croupy coughs. I
keep a bottle of it in my home all the time.”*
D
Keep a
Kodak Record
of your
Summer Pleasures
Anybody Can Kodak
It is easier to go right than wrong by the
Kodak system Simple, inexpensive and no dark
room for any part of the work.
JUST AS EASY TO
CATCH THE FLEET
as it is to catch fish, if you
Use a KODAK.
Price no consideration, because
they run from ss. 6d. to just
as many pounds as you care
to spend.
But be sure to‘ get an ...
“EASTMAN”KODAK,
and not a mere imitation.
BAKER & MOUSE Proprietary Ltd.,
Sole Agents in Australia for KODAK LIMITED,
375 & 377 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 37 Rundle
Street, Adelaide; 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane; RuthVen Street, Toowoomba.
week. . . . The employer takes them on nominally for
two years, and verbally undertakes to give them instruc-
tianbut, as far as I can gather, they learn nothing but
the way to use a sewing machine, run up a seam, and
minor matters of that kind; the cutting, finish-
ing, and fitting are done by the employer
herself. Of course, it is ridiculous to think that
any trade can be properly learned in two years, but
the point is that when the two years “apprenticeship"
is finished ... if a small wage is asked for she is recom-
mended to get an “ improvership ” elsewhere, and another
little girl from school takes her place.
I HAVE 143 W BEEN IN THIS DISTRICT FOR NINE TEARS, AND
CAN POINT TO NUMEROUS DRESSMAKERS, SOME EMPLOYING AS
MANY AS 10 HANDS, WHO HAVE NEVER PAID ONE PENNY IN
WAGES DURING.THE WHOLE OF THAT TIME.
That is only a small portion of the report; the
rest is almost equally bad. Owing to the attitude
of the Assembly the Government had to choose
between letting these frauds continue or making
the minimum wage ss. per week*—which doesn’t
appear excessive. And it was so tender of the
feelings of the numerous kindly dressmakers who
haven’t paid any wages for nine years that it
decided rather to let the whole iniquity go on than
raise the minimum to the imperial luxury of
ss. The Government seems to have an altogether
exaggerated idea of the number of diamonds and
motor cars a girl can buy with ss. a week.
Robert Patten, M.L.C., gave his reasons to the
recent Sydney Farmers and Settlers’ Conference.
Said Robert :
The Association has been for years complaining of the
inability of the State Parliament to properly administer
the land laws. Then, how is it possible for the Federal
Administration to administer all the Land Acts of the six
States? On that point alone I am opposed to Unifica-
tion.
Well, if that is Patten’s only reason for opposing
Unification, Patten may cease opposing right
now—in fact, if Patten had only taken the trouble
to understand his subject, he need never have
done any opposing at all. Nobody suggests that
“ the Federal Administration should administer
all the Land Acts of the six States.” What is
proposed is that the six States —as States—should
be wiped clean out, and all authority vested in the
Australian Parliament for just so long as it will
take the Australian Parliament to reconstruct the
Commoriwealthinto a number of small, manageable
States, each with its own Parliament of one
popularly-elected House. To these States the
Australian Parliament would hand back certain
functions, including power to control their own
lands, roads, etc. The new States could then pro-
ceed to make and administer their own land laws ;
the Australian Government would just give them
its blessing to start with, and then go on with its
own business, and incidentally the “ inability of
the State Parliament to properly administer the
land laws,” about which Patten, M.L.C., com-
plains So woefully, would be a subject to weep over
no longer. In short, instead of being the
“centralisation” which people like Patten,
M.L.C., profess to be so alarmed about, Unifica-
tion means decentralisation reduced to its lowest
term—or raised to its highest term, as you please
to put it. 'That the State in its present cumbrous
form cari’t administer the Land laws decently is
fairly proved by the fact that a few years ago,
after having made a mess of the business itself, it
cut off the Western lands, and put their manage-
ment in the hands of a special commission.
The cable reported last week that the French
judges of wines at the Franco-British Exhibition
had refused to taste the Australian exhibits
because some of them bore names “ which might
mislead buyers as to their place of origin.” In
withdrawing their countenance the Frenchmen
instanced “Australian Burgundy” as a specially
misleading title. This is very shocking. Presum-
ably on the same grounds Portuguese judges
wouldn’t judge French ports, and Spanish judges
would look with the cold eye of suspicion on any-
body outside their own country who presented
sherry for sampling. Also if Bent returned to
his old business and exhibited French beans,
grown at Brighton (Vic.), it would be up
to somebody to accuse him of being a bold and
dangerous' deceiver. Burgundy got its name
applied to a certain class of wine, just as Scotland
got its name applied to a certain kind of mist;
and when a man who isn’t a Frenchman labels the
same kind of wine Burgundy, he no more intends
to make anyone believe that the stuff grew in
Burgundy than he means to imply that the
Scotch mist he came through in the morning was
.imported from the Firth of Forth or the Clyde.
The French judges’excuse was too thin ; it makes
one think that it wasn’t the label they feared—it
was what tvas inside the bottle. Also that it
wasn’t the poor public they feared for ; it was the
French vigneron.
♦
The adulterating trader is really a much mis-
understood person. Instead of being a swindler
and a thief, he is really, it seems, a benevolent
individual who spends all his days and half his
nights studying how he can give his customers a
better article than they ask for. It was stated in
the Vic. House of Rich Landlords, the other night,
that most of the artificial manure sold in the State
is largely adulterated with common yellow sand.
Like the salt in chaff, this was done because it
suited the buyer better—it caused the manure to
run through the drill more easily. The adulte-
rator wouldn’t put the farmer to the trouble of
adding his own sand to suit, any more than he
would let the horse-owner worry about salting his
own chaff, if he felt so inclined. He insists on
doing it for his customers. Still, one can’t help
noticing that the philanthropic adulterator, in his
anxiety to improve on the genuine article, in-
variably uses something cheap. He never by any
chance puts a handful of gold dust in a bag of
chaff, though it would improve its appearance
immensely. And, though he might make a friend
of his customer for life, he never tells the latter
what he is doing for him—never even whispers
that he has put 6ewt. of sand with the 14ewt. of
manure. He just charges the farmer for a ton of
manure, and lets his benevolence go unmentioned.
' * — : —•
The imported Welsh professor from Scotland who
has been lecturing in Sydney dropped this pearl of
wisdom among others :
I find you careful to try to improve agriculture, to
grow your wool a little longer, but I do not see in any
university a professor of social economy, yet the Aus-
tralian people is plunging into economic and social ques-
tions. It will be called upon to suffer for the democratic
ideal, because it cherishes that ideal while, at the same
time, no one is devoting himself to quiet, fearless, and
. sincere inquiry.
Wonderful is the vanity of the professorial person
who thinks that the first step to reform is neces-
sarily to hire a spectacled book-theorist and give
him a steady job at a high salary. “No
one,” says this mass of Welsh vanity, “is devoting
himself to quiet, fearless and sincere inquiry.”
It makes one laugh. Men like Ballance, King-
ston, Deakin, Ltne, Watson, Price, Kidston,
Berry, etc., spend their lives in “ quiet, fearless
and sincere inquiry,” combined with the practical
experiment without which mere inquiry is little
more than a whirling of dry bones and a shaking
up of old dust. They differ from the professor
just as does the real chemist, who learns and ex-
periments, from the theoretical one who reads
about oxygen in books, but wouldn’t know the
substance from a crow if he met it in the street.
The proud Welsh person quotes the success this
country has met with in the matter of wool.
Well, it did that, even as it is doing with its social
economy, by practical work, not by appointing a
Professor of Sheep or founding a Chair of Mutton
at the University.
-♦
A saddening item from Brisbane Worker
mm
The conversion of the public debt, the Federal capital
site, the High Commissioner for London—what do such
questions matter to working people with butter at Is. 9d.
a pound, steak at 7d. a pound, and milk at 6d. a quart ?
In short, what does anything matter except the
mutton chop of the moment or the immediate
loaf ? What is the good of planting an acorn to-
day if the tree won’t be grown up and ready to
supply firewood to-morrow ; and what value is an
infant, seeing that it can’t get to work immedi-
ately and earn money ? And yet sometimes things
do matter even though they are not immediate
steak or prompt butter. Some day the question
will almost certainly have to be argued whether
the civilisation and the institutions which make
possible the very existence of the Labor party
will survive, or whether Asiatic despotism
will obliterate it, and its aims and purposes,
and its eight hours system, and its arbitration,
and its White Australia policy, and, in short, the
whole caboodle. And the conversion of the public
debt to-day may save the country and the Labor
party from obliteration 50 or 30 or even 20 years
hence, for defence is largely a question of money,
and it depends on how Australia looks after its
credit and its solvency in time of peace whether
it will be able to get the necessary funds in time
of trouble. Even the situation of the Australian
capital may be the straw which shall decide
whether Australians to be saved or lost; some-
times it is the existence of one strong city that
stops the rising tide of invasion, and again it may
be for the want of one strong city that the tide
doesn’t stop. If the far-seeing patriotism which
looks into the future would make the price of steak
any higher in the present, or add another penny to
the immediate cost of butter, there might be some
excuse for the lamentable advice which the
Worker gives to the Labor party by implication,
to consider only the food of the moment and to let
the future of Australia take care of itself. But
even if the workers leave the debt question and
the Federal capital question to be settled entirely
by their enemies, that fact won’t reduce the cost
of steak and butter. And it would be poor policy
to let the Fat Man put the Federal capital (in
which many workers will have to live) on any
miserable spot that suits his sordid interests and
his land-jobbing soul, merely out of impotent
anger at the price of steak.
: :
“ ,T.G.” : Malcolm Cameron, a Connewarre (Vic.)
cow-cocky, was fined £5, the other day, for ill-
treating “ Arthur Box, aged 14, a ward of the
State.” Cameron had Box on hire for 3s. a
week, and, according to Melbourne Age, this is
what transpired :
On 18th July Gameron left his home for town, and
before setting out on the journey he instructed Box to
clean the stables, cut firewood, and scrape mangels for
the cows. iOn returning to the farm in the evening
Cameron found the boy milking the cows, and he com-
plained that he had not scraped enough mangels.
So Cameron started to reprove his charge. The
result was that the Government medical officer.
Dr. J. A. O’Brien, found, five days afterwards,
the following injuries on the wretched human
tenement of Box :
(1) Two abrasions on the top of the scalp ; (2) two
bruises on the back of the left shoulder, and one in the
front; (3) a bruise, eight inches by five, on the left side ;
(4) contusions on the right side ; (5) a contusion, four
inches bv three inches, under the shoulder ; (6) other
bruises, from two-and-a-half to three inches in extent, all
over the body ; (7) a black eye.
This was five days after Cameron had shown Box
the insufficiency of his mangel-wurzels. Had the
doctor inspected the lad shortly after Cameron had
done with him he would doubtless have been able to
discern a few more damages through the blood and
displaced hair. The incident suggests that it is
about time the pernicious system of hiring out
unfortunate orphans, for a shilling or two a week,
to cockies, nigger-drivers, sweaters and other
unscrupulous persons was abolished. Mostly the
unfortunate kids are put to do work that should
be paid for at men’s rates. And for one case of
outrageous cruelty that gets into court there are
dozens that, are suppressed. And, invariably,
where they are made public, the outrage-monger
gets fined something nominal (like £5) and blithely
resumes the even tenor of his wallop.
A young woman writes this :
A sad feature of John Bull’s capital in the
radiant month of June is the spectacle of the para-
lysed and crippled swells gazing from their long
invalid chairs at the giddy promenade of Hyde Park.
In the midst of this great parade of high-collared
masherdom and matchless chiffon queens, the invalid
chair comes and passes like a bad dream, like a breath
of disease in the sunny realms of health. And after it
comes the spectacle of the Ancient Human Ruin per-
ambulating stiffly through the throng of haughty, gay,
dissipated, beautiful high-steppers. The spectacle
offends 1 equally, whether male or female. The old rake,
eyes seem to be stewing for ever in the slow
fire of old-age passions, ambles stiffly along, his
joints stubborn from gout, his face cadaverous
with riotous living, his old hands decked in lavender
glovt'S, his dogged feet encased in needle-point patent
leathers and lavender gaiters. He is perhaps only 65 or
70, but he seems to have reached the century limit, and
tries, with pathetic gaiety, to get a spring in his step to
match the unquenchable friskiness of his vain old soul.
And the old she-sinner of Mayfair is as ludicrous. She
minces along in tiny, high-heeled shoes, wagging her
“ Trottoir” skirt like an irrepressible debutante, and her
poor old dyed head wags of itself in sympathy. Heavy
coats of rouge fill in the cracks of her old worn face, and
layers of pearl powder are lodged thereon. Her droll
little eyes peer at the crowd mischievously, and her tongue
wags wickedly as the assorted couples of great and little
reputation pass in turn along the Row. But. if she have
more humor than her stylish and doddering male con-
temporary, she is still foolish and a depressing sight.
Indeed the parade of aged Vanity in Hyde Park is tragic,
and the young, looking on in disgust, or the middle-aged
in terror, decide in their hearts to shun that great June
Parade of Wealth and Beauty and Gaiety, when Time
threatens to stop this final burlesque of life. But the v
don’t keep the good resolution, as a rule. If is so difficn.t
to know when one is old.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mrs. Wiggs.”
( “ The Red Mill.
Theatre Royal -j « Peter p an ” (Wednesday).
Criterion “ Miss Hook of Holland.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium.. ..... Real Ice Skating.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall “For the Term of His Natural
Life ” (Living- Pictures).
Centenary Hall (Aug. 'i
21 and 22) VThe Kilties.
The Stadium (Aug. 20).. )
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Prince Chap. ”
Her Majesty’s .... “ The Thief.”
Theatre Royal “ Two Little Sailor Boys.”
King’s “A Life’s Revenge.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium..., Ice Skating.
Town Hall Mark Hatnbourg (Aug. 22).
—♦— J
Everyone but Mr. Freddie Shipman was
convinced that the Kilties were going to strike 40
degrees of frost in this country. “If I’d known
you were going to bring out a band, old man, I’d
have cabled you a warning at my own expense.”
This from kindly friends when they chanced on
the Kilties’ manager while the combination was
yet at sea. “Our people,” pursued the altruists,
“ rather like listening to the German street bands
at lunch time. They listen and take leaning
exercise at the same time, but they won’t pay to
go to a hall to listen to a band that
is just band.” After pouring this soothing
information over the incredulous Freddie,
they rushed to the Kilbies’ opening night
at Sydney Town Hall, presumably to see their
prophecy "fulfilled in the enthusiasm with which
the other fellow would stay away. But the other
fellow was there also ! And a thousand more of
him was turned away because an unforeseeing
architect didn’t build the Town Hall on india-
rubber principles. After profound thought over
the whyness of the huge attendance, the man
inside the Hall and the Peri at the gate “ gave
it up,” concluding that the way of a ship at sea or
an eagle in the air was less capricious and unex-
pected than the way of the public with a new
attraction.
* * * ■*
The new attraction proved itself a first-
rate band and something more. Side shows, so
to speak, lent variety to what was already varied.
The musical programme was popularly cosmo-
politan, but gemmed with such modern classical
flights as the No. 2 Liszt Rhapsody, and a sample
of Wagner. Scottish
airs and reel measures
gleamed in fantasies,
and to allow the eye
to participate in
the general unex-
pectedness and
variety, the band
frequently broke
up its regular for-
mation ; and then
a group of instru-
mentalists or an
individual player
marched to the
front of the plat-
form, and there
dramatically
worked out its (or
his) musical salva-
tion, with’ or with-
out the help of
the full band. A
bagpipe solo was
encored again and
again. Bagpipe
music is an ac-
quired taste like
THE LIMBER LESLIE
in “ The Red Mill" at
Sydney Royal.
garlic. Quite a number of person's think the
bagpipes were invented by Sandy. But some-
one in this city has a coin of Nero, on
which the accomplished monster is shown
playing on the bagpipes. Possibly he was
bagging, not fiddling, while Rome burned.
Possibly his courtiers really fired the city, driven
to madness at having to listen to his bagging. And
the Assyrians of old are said to have used bag-
pipes ; the pipers were placed at the rear of the
army, and the soldiers, rushing ahead to escape
the noise, trod down all opposition, ahd founded a
great empire. Piper Johnstone, who pipes for
the Kilties, is said to be one of the best players on
the planet. Would that Jupiter had him ! He
is too good for this mere Earth. Dancing—
Scotch reels, sword dances, and Irish hornpipes—
was a glad feature of the Kilties’ first triumphal
night.
** * *
The Margaret Anglin season—one of the
most enjoyable that J. C. Williamson has pro-
vided for many a day—ended at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) on Wednesday night, and the co. has
passed on to Melbourne. The season was so short
that “The Truth” lasted for 10 nights only,
though it was a much worthier piece than “ Zira,”
which was given a full fortnight. For one thing,
it gave G. S. Titheradge a chance to show him-
self in his best manner ; and the remembrance of
the fine old favorite trying to tap his son-in-law
for “only a hundred” will last through even a
Fleet week’s junketing. “ Mrs. Wiggs of the
Cabbage Patch,” arrives about simultaneously
with a gentleman named Sperry, to whom, and to
a friend of his named Uncle Sam, the public may
have observed a few casual references in the
papers lately.
* sfc * *
The arms of “ The Red Mill ” still revolve
profitably at Sydney Royal, but the machine is to
be dismantled in another week. “ Peter Pan
is coming on the 26th. Peter is the gladsome
Barrie boy who declined to grow up, and his
wisdom in so doing has already been approved
at Melbourne and
elsewhere. Sydney
will now form its
own unbiassed
opinion of the mat-
ter, with a favor-
able premonition—•
based partly on
good accounts from
elsewhere, and
partly on the glad
haze of Fleet week,
that being an occa-
sion when the com-
munity will look
at things through
a bottle darkly,
and be glad and
satisfied and
not too critical,
though the last
remark is pro-
bably quite
needless, for
there is no reason
to suppose that
there would be any
room for unfavor-
able criticism even
if it wasn’t Fleet
week and the com-
CHARLES LODER in “ The
Red Mill,” at Sydney Royal.
munity wasn’t looking at .things darkly through a
bottle-bottom and an atmosphere, of exaltation,
and was merely in its sober senses and its ordinary
frame of mind so to speak (but this parenthesis
has run to seed and is past all disentanglement
by now; parentheses do that sort of thing in
Fleet week)! ! !
** # *
The Hooks continue to dangle alluringly
before Sydney Criterion multitudes. Baited to
the very line, as it werej with fair women and
bright music, and with a lavish burley of japes
new and old scattered around on the waters of
public patronage, it would be strange if they did
not do deadly execution. As a fact, fish of the
right sort are biting freely at the Criterion box-
office, and the close season for the part of Holland
where these Hooks hang out is still some weeks off.
* * *
At the Queen’s Hall, Sydney, the melan-
choly story of Rufus Dawes and Sylvia still holds
the screen and the attention of the public. The
way the said public has rushed to see that great
Australian romance proves conclusively that the
Australians will support their own writers and
dramatists if managers give the opportunity.
Messrs. MacMahon and Carrol, 1 with Edward
Geach, have secured the right to the pictures of
the Burns-Squires upheaval, and the women who
are now being refused tickets at £2 apiece to see
the actual bloodshed will swarm along to see it on
the screen at 2s. 6d.
* ifr * *
At Sydney Lyceum the march of science
applied to money-making has produced the chro-
nqmegaphone. This weird appliance is a com-
bination of talking machine and moving picture.
At the Lyceum the figure of Harry Lauder, of
European fame, holds the screen,, and down
beneath the megaphone part of the show
sings Harry’s songs and reproduces Harry’s
voice. The mechanism is so linked up that
the speed of the one implement controls
that of the other, and Harry on the screen bows
at exactly the identical moment that Harry in the
box breathes out his last note. It is a wonderful
invention, and in the near future Spencer will
probably produce the stars of the operatic world
and stage Wagnerian operas on his screen, and
during the intervals colored coons will gyrate and
warble things like “My yellow Lu, I love you, I
do, I do !” and thus give patrons the wide range
and • infinite variety that has made the show
famous.
** * *
Although Hamlet has joined the ghost and
vanished from the screen at Sydney Palace the
programme continues undimmed. The series of “A
Day in the Life of a Sicilian Hermit ” reveals some
exquisite architectural remains and some human
ones that are not lovely. Whoever made that film
was a master at the art; the definition is exquisite,
and the pictures have a reality that is startling in
its life-like excellence. Another realistic film is


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
“ What’s your verdict?” in a fury
Asked the counsel of the jury.
Though 'twas somewhat premature he
Could no more endure 1
“ What’s our verdict!” said the foreman,
“ We’ve all colds through that door, man !
Give us what we asked before, man,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
the Grand Prix motor race of July, round the
Dieppe circuit, in which the machines are seen
whirling at a fearful speed. The awful smash,
in which Cissac’s car turned turtle and killed that
prince of chauffeurs, is both seen and heard, and so is
that smaller smash in which Harrison on the Weigel
car dived madly into the ditch and stayed there.
Among other humorous items is the story of what
happens to Pauline Wells, a lovely young woman
who is returning to her husband, and Percy
White, a handsome young man on his way to
rejoin his wife. A very mild flirtation leads to an
accidental interchange of bags, which are alike
in design and both labelled P.W. Percy arrives
home, and tells his wife to take the present he
has brought her from the bag, which, when
opened, reveals first a pair of well-worn corsets,
and then some assorted underwear. Pauline hugs
her old man and refers him to her bag, which
gives up some pyjamas, socks, and a quantity of
shaving tackle. A very solemn warning is
located hereabouts. In fact, the moving picture
is crammed full of wisdom, like the Book of
Proverbs and other good works.
** * *
Miss Ella Caspers’ matinee brought a capital
attendance to the not-easily-filled Sydney Town
Hall. There ought to be a money fund set aside
by Someone (of the Walter Hall gold tonnage) or
Something for the training of the promising
young singer, for whose voice, as a voice of
promise, nothing but praise can be spoken. Then
might she take unto herself the wings of the morn-
ing and flee to immediate study, instead of labori-
ously earning her chance by travelling about the
country concert-giving with probable evil results
to her warble. Miss Caspers sang in Sydney
some two years ago. but at last Saturday’s matinee
no particular improvement was noticeable. Still
that is not dispraise. The youngster is still a
mere girl, and her voice is still golden, sympa-
thetic, and altogether remarkable for a student.
And she is a modest student, for where she
might easily go into vocal fireworks, and lift
the groundlings out of their seats with
stellar-space notes, she is content to follow the
composer’s intention and her own innate artistic
feeling. The young contralto was particularly
successful with Haydn’s “ Spirit Song.” And she
Was most generous in the matter of encores. Her
musical support helped to make it a splendid
concert. Mr. McEacbarn, a new basso, ought to
be heard again soon. He is worth a lot of hear-
ings.
At Sydney Tivoli, the Meynotts’ humorous
sketch, “ Semi-Detached,” is the most notable
achievement of the week. It is a bright bit of
fooling, and The Bulletin felt rather grieved
when it tailed off unreasonably into a duet of no
particular interest. Still the turn is hereby
awarded honorable mention and a certificate of
appreciation. The rest of the entertainment is
furnished mostly by Austin Kudd, Mignonette
Kokin, the Miles Stavordale Quintette. Regan
and Ryan, Irving Sayles, and Baby Watson.
Galetti’s dogs and baboons continue their enthu-
siastic pursuit of beer in a hansom cab.
** * *
The Adelaide public has rushed “Mrs.
Wiggs ” for the one week during which she was
o.n view. The management has the colossal nerve
to advertise the said public as soliloquising over
this collection of rollicking caricatures: “Yes,
this is indeed the pre-
sentment of varied
types of human life,
not only as we imagine
them, but as we know
them.” However, the
play is very funny, and
that is all that really
matters. The audi-
ences are chiefly femin-
ine, and the burlesque
bridal costume scores
heavily with them.
Helen Lowell, who
wears it, makes a won-
derful effort of sus-
tained caricature. Ada
Dwyer walks through
the part of Mrs. Wiggs
admirably ; it is so
‘■fat” a part that no
competent player could
go wrong in it. The
other people vary from
competent to first-rate.
This week, “ The
Merry Widow ” is
being rushed in its
turn. It is bright, it
•is funny, and it is
tuneful, but (on first
acquaintance) there is
little to account for its
being the' world-wide
JOHN FORD in “ The
Red Mill” at Sydney
Royal.
success it admittedly is. However, to welcome
back Carrie Moore—though she has been seen in
parts that fitted her talents better—and
Florence Young, and to make the acquaint-
ance of the joyous Higginson—these things are
well worth the money.
* * *
It seems highly improbable that the Good.
Young Man Who Died was half so sweet as
the hero of the name part in “The Prince
Chap,” staged at Melbourne Princess’s last
Saturday. The hero in question is neither a
common or royal Prince, nor a “Chap.”
A Philistine who could think of him as
a chap would be guilty of calling a bishop a
bloke. Not that this hero is really in holy orders.
He is a sculptor—impecunious at first, and well-
to-do in the third act —who looks like an angel,
and talks like a curate at a christening. There is
no break in the monotony of his purity and inno-
cence. His life for 13 years (in the play) is not
so much an endless striving to be good as
a beautiful illustration of the fact that Nature
never intended him to be anything else. He
is good even unto goodiness. As a shining ex-
ample to his sex he takes the sausage roll.
Because of his goodness, a starving married
woman totters into his studio and expires upon
his sofa, after bequeathing her little daughter to
his care. The child now shares his Christian
solicitude with a frost-bitten little slavey, who sits
on hot bricks to thaw herself, and a faithful man-
servant who trusts him for wages. In a ladylike
way, he washes and undresses the child, and
assists her to say her prayers. All this is very
nice, though rather namby. In the next act the
child is three years older, and not so interesting,
but the motherly young sculptor loves her more
than ever. It is the joyful Christmas time, and
the conversation of “Daddy” and his adopted
daughter and the faithful man-servant is mostly
about Santa Claus. Then arrives the young lady
to whom “Daddy” has been engaered alf these
years. She proves to be a heartless person, who
casts false aspersions upon his character as regards
the adopted child. Finally she blights his mild
career by writing him a farewell letter, enclosing
all the presents he never gave her. This comes
to hand just when he is trimming the merry
Christmas tree and stuffing presents into every-
body’s stocking. He was, O, so happy just be-
fore the letter arrived, and, naturally, it breaks
him up. In the thirdly and lastly act the sculptor
has grown becomingly grey, the daughter being
18. She calls him “ Daddy,” but in a coquettish
way. In short, she loves him as a daughter
shouldn’t, and after a while he discovers that his
own feelings are otherwise than paternal. So
they bring the curtain down upon an embraceful
situation.
PERCY DENTON in “ The Red Mill,” at
Sydney Royal.
“ The Prince Chap,” with only mawkish
sentiment to recommend it, would be a very weak
entertainment if the two child characters were not
more naturally acted than the adult female
characters. The children are well taught, and the
smaller of them brings an air of reality into the
first act. Of the grown-up ladies, the most suc-
cessful (Miss Mary Keogh) gives an extrava-
gantly farcical performance of the comic
slavey. Frank Lamb is admirable as the
faithful man-servant, who in his gloomy Dickens-
esqueness is just as out of date as the smudgy
slavey aforesaid. A. E. Greenaway plays a some-
what absurd friend of the sculptor, and H. R.
Roberts impersonates the shining virtues of that
effeminate hero. Now, as heretofore, Roberts is
essentially “nice,” not to say artificial, in his
manner of speech and appearance. His style
seems specially suited to matinees and afternoon
tea. He is good-looking, artistic, alert, moreover
he has a pleasant voice—but his method is too
sweet for the average masculine taste. The piece
is neatly staged and managed. The modern
American device of turning on the dark in the
middle of an act is. effectively practised—and the
season is only for 11 nights.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), two more
performances of “ Peter Pan ” will transpire
before “ The Thief” arrives. In “The Thief,”
lately of Sydney, the much-expected Miss Anglin
makes her first appearance, and Titheradge comes
back to Melbourne, and there are other reasons
why the rush for first-night seats was gently
curbed with a booking-fee of two-and-six.
** * *
One more week of ‘ ‘ Two Little Sailor
Boys ” will play the present co. off the
Melbourne Royal premises and leave the
stage open to comic opera. Meanwhile, the
melodrama is picking up points as it goes
along. Formerly, the large lady with the
lurid Past was wont to push her offspring into
the dry and flowing river, as though she
were afraid of hurting her victim, but now she
behaves like an unnatural parent who means busi-
ness. When the boy clutches the edge of the
bridge his terrible mommer goes through a form
of treading on his fingers, whereat he loosens his
hold and falls into the dusty torrent below. And
then the other she-boy contributes some newly
elaborated details of rescue, and the limelight
streams upon a scene that would melt even a
policeman to tears, if he were sufficiently advanced
in liquor. Talking of the comic opera which looms
in the near distance, it is “Les Cloches de Corne-
ville,” and George Musgrove will see that it is
bright.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou the mysteries of
Maskelyne and Devant are to be followed by a
revival of Miss Florence Baines in “Mrs. Lee’s
Lodgers.” Also the Kilties are due in the city
next week, and will sound the loud pibroch at the
Exhibition Building. At the Town Hall the two
final recitals of Mark are announced
for this (Thursday) afternoon and Saturday night,
but the audiences lately have been large enough
to justify the suspicion that General Desire will
take measures to delay the pianist’s departure.
** * #
At Melbourne King’s Theatre ‘ ‘ The
Squatter’s ■ Daughter ” is at the end of its career.
To-night (Thursday) “ A Life’s Revenge ” starts
on a career which will presumably be one of
blood.
** * *
Princes’ Court will be re-opened on Saturday
(29th), which is the first day of the Feast of the
Eleetover in Melbourne. In the new management
of Princes’ Court the Wirth Bros, are largely con-
cerned, and a company of menagerie animals,
from the famous Hagenbeck Zoo in Germany,
will make its first appearance on this occasion.
The beasts are to be put through a course of drill
“thrilling manoeuvres” is the Wirthian term —
by one trainer. The spectacle of a variety of
quarrelsome beasts performing together in
Christian fellowship will be the chief attraction of
the show. Apart from this, all the old items will
break out again, supplemented by an elephant
ride, also an array of musical instrumentalists
will soothe the savage breasts of the assembled
carnivora whilst inciting the public to roll up and
pay Is. for admission.
ifc
At Melbourne Olympia West’s Pictures
are still endeavoring to cater for all intellects,
ranging from homespun to torchon-trimmed. For
the 9Jd. flannelette brand of mind there are “ The
Lunatic’s Escape,” “A Strange Inheritance,” and
“She Would Be An Actress”; while the 17s. lid.
sort with Valenciennes trimmings may be fed
upon “Ancient and Modern Sicily ”and “Borneo
and Juliet’’—the last a sweet, pictured sob, last-
ing 20 minutes, which, the management insists, is
“ finely accurate.”
** * *
Rickards’ Melbourne programme is again
inclining to redundancy, and if it were not for the
Arabs, whose turn is a brief rhapsody of bright
garments and acrobatics, the bill would be mostly
an opiate. However, the Rigoletto Bros, are still
doing capable things with their combined ego at
the flood. Miss Nellie Wilson has taken to dancing
in tights of russet brown. Leonard Nelson requests
that he be “taken back to Bendigo” (to which
this paper has no objection); while the Desmond
Sisters, who gave three songs for the first time on
Saturday, are remanded for sentence. Also the
little man, who treats the populace to two or three
courses of potted Lowen, has suddenly changed
his socks.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A subtle humorist visited Cairns (Queensland) recently,
and got printed in the local Archimedean lever a pro-
gramme of a new company which he said he was bringing
along. It was called “ George Rignold and Janies
Taylor’s American Dramatic C 0.,” and it was announced
that the co. would produce “ for the first time in Aus-
tralia Sir Henry Irving’s noted prairie drama of three
Acts, ‘His Run for Life.’” The character of Cap-
tain Hardie was entrusted to “George Rignold,”
and that of a Captain of Cowboys to “ Walter
Bentley.” Cowboy police were played by Messrs. Wal-
lace and Herbert Irving (probably sons of the Irving
whose “ noted prairie drama ” it was). In the cast also
was Charles Clarke, most likely the spirit of the late Rev.
Charles. The business manager and director was said to
be “Mr. G. Rignold,” and the stage manager (with, no
doubt, full discretion as to limelight), “ Walter Bentley.”
The synopsis of the last act says : “Scene 1: Captain
Hardie’s Run for Life Cross Country. Scene 2: Mel vale
Inn. Capture of Gang. Scene 3: Western Law Court.
Trial of Captain Hardie's Gang.”
“Jean Sibi”: After further inspection of the Brune
lady in “ Peter Pan,” I have come to the conclusion that
she is a much better exponent of juvenility (from the
nursery to the age of forbidden literature) than she ever
could be, or has been, of a world-wise maturity. Her
Camille and La Tosca were alleged to be considerable suc-
cesses, as doubtless they were to the ingenues of all ages
and both sexes who like mediocrity to be pretty and
“ goo-goo.” There is no doubt that she could reach the
great, tender ’eart of the public by her picture of a sacro-
sanct Magdalen. But there is no doubt that she did it
by theatricality rather than by what is cheaply called
“ art.” If I remember correctly, she was especially con-
vincing in the second act of “ Camille” by the girlishness
of her garb. The white frock churned up one’s emotions
to such an extent that one was almost inclined to ignore
the blushfulness of Camille’s past in the intense innocence
of her present. Artifice, not art, perhaps ! Again, note
her as Tosca in her vital scene with Scarpia. White
once more—a sort of comfy robe-de-chambre of
severe cut, signifying the deathless virtue of an
opera singer who had previously been prancing
about in an Empire gown of rich, yellow satin.
Trivial, perhaps, but how the great ’eart goes out to
Ploriain this scene ! However, take Miss Brune as Sun-
day, or as Peter Pan, or even as the gorgeously romantic
L’Aiglon. In my humble opinion, she is more spon-
taneous, more real in any one of those characters than she
is as an older female of striped reputation. Briefly, I should
imagine that she is at home with a fairy, a box of
toys, a tin of jam, but not with a parcel of disordered
passions. As an actress, I should say she is best in the
portrayal of cheerful and innocent kiddydom.
The latest thing in biograph shows for Melbourne is a
roofless structure, which will travel around under the
name of “ The Picture Place,” a title which, by the way,
might be expanded into “ The Moving Picture Place.”
The Professional Musicians’ Union (which is a steadily-
growing and very earnest Union) is angry with fiddler
Kubelik for engaging the Sydney Amateur Orchestra for
his concert on Friday, August 14. Sydney has a fine
orchestra —the Sydney Symphony Orchestra—composed
of the best available professionals, and it was offered to
Mr. Southwell, Kubelik’s concert manager. The latter
was, however, not taking any. The professionals have a
certain amount of reason, as the Gauls say, in feeling
surprisedly riled that Kubelik—himself a pro.—should
jettison them in favor of amateurs.
“Blue Peter” (his curse) : It is easy to see that the Mas-
kelyne and Devant show hails from England. Nothing
but the English respect for hoary institutions would keep
it alive in these days of bright, swift shows. The tricks
themselves are not so bad. It is the slowness of them and
the way they are padded and repeated and dragged out
that makes them dreary. For instance, there is the
magic kettle, out of which the conjurer gives the audience
all the different drinks it likes to name. It is all right
for the people in the stalls who are getting the
drinks (they nearly all stick to beer and whisky,
by the way), but by the time three or four
dozen glasses have been filled and handed down it gets
dreadfully monotonous to watch. The trick of the man
who has his head cut off and walks about with it under his
arm is very old and only good enough for a few minutes,
anyway ; but it is padded out into a painful sketch lasting
about balf-an-hom- and ending with a moral. The clever
cabinet trick, on spiritualistic lines, introduces a lot of
stupid characters with too much to say, and seems as if
it were stretching a long way into eternity. In fact, the
Maskelyne and Devant show arouses an uneasy suspicion
that Queen Victoria and Gladstone saw it in their youth,
and that it hasn’t been changed since.
“ J.G.”: In our local hall, the other night, there was a
flicker show in aid of the local Bethel, and the operator
was the local parson. After showing- us the crash of
Babylon and a glimpse of Hades, he said that the best
film was kept till the last, and would deal with scenes
and incidents mentioned in the Book of Revelation. The
parson, after mentioning the seven seals, the Beast, the
Devil, and other well-known characters, asked his
audience to carefully watch the next series.
He then turned on the new reel, which proved
to be a series of scenes in a Paris music hall.
The operator gasped, stopped the machine, pondered,
and then started it again. But still the lively pictures
continued to roll out. By this time the Judders were
taking in all the incidents in the pictdkes. After the
first-shock was over they really liked it. Presently the
parson stopped the machine again, and pulled off the
reel, and got excited, and turned a tap, and something
went off with a bang. Next day the cause of the awful
occurrence was explained. The night before a travelling
showman had taken the same building, and had also held
a flicker show. His machine was left in the hall till next
day, and in the packing up of the showman’s kit two lots
of reels had got boxed, the showman eventually going-
away with the parson’s Revelation, and leaving his own
Paris behind.
The death of Ira D. Sankey was cabled the other day
from London. In the evangelistic partnership of Moody
and Sankey, which began in 1870 and lasted for 29 years,
the musical member of the firm was as essential to the
■success of the preacher as was Arthur Sullivan to W. S.
Gilbert, and vice versa. Moody shook up the masses with
his discursive, fiery sermons (paving the way for General
Booth), whilst Sankey thundered out the hymns to
his own harmonium accompaniment, and gave the show
an ever widening advt. by means of his published hymn-
book. They were great roasters of the religious’.' revival ”
business, and doubtless their commercial method was
vitalised by a spark of genuine religious enthusiasm or
fanaticism, otherwise their joint “ministry” would
not have flourished so long. Rumors to the
discredit of Moody and Sankey were common
enough in the old days. They were said to
have quarrelled and parted over the question
of the division of the spoil. Another story had it that
Sankey was a nigger minstrel when the hot gospeller
“picked him up’’for show purposes. As a matter of
fact, the rich-voiced hymnster was a Y.M.C.A. organiser
ere he joined Moody, and the idea of the popular “sacred ”
ballad originated with him. Booth’s Salvarmy, with its
invaluable drum and its utterly profane hymn ditties,
was a vulgar plagiarism from the Moody and Sankey
services in the first instance.
“0.K.”: Not having read the book, I cannot say
whether Barrie’s story of “Peter Pan,” or only the
dramatisation of it, is somewhat plagiarised from “ The
Pirates of Penzance.” For that matter, many of the
mock-serious lines throughout the cohiedy imitate the
Gilbertian humor; as, for instance, Mr. Darling’s contem-
plative remark, “ I sometimes think it, was a mistake to
have a dog for a nurse,” and his conversation with bis
wife re the celebrity he has achieved by living in the
dog’s kennel. Also, the most whimsical of Wendy’s
utterances show the Gilbertian influence, though their
construction in some instances is quite crude as com-
pared with the work of the original humorist. The re-
semblance between the pirates of “Peter Pan’s” fairy-
land and the sea-bushrangers of Penzance is both plain
and paradoxical. In the satirical opera the lurid law-
breakers are finally overcome by their loyalty to the
British Crown and Union Jack. In “ Peter Pan ”it is the
children who proclaim their English gentlemanly devo-
tion to the Flag in defiance of the pirate captain. And all
the time one is worried by the thought that W. S. Gilbert
in his prime ought to have been the author of “Peter
Pan,” because he—the father of modern fairy comedy—
could have done it rather better than Barrie did. But,
with Gilbert retired from the field, the fanciful outbreaks
of Barrie deserve grateful acceptance.
The only Marshall Hall rhapsodised for three-quarters
of a column in Melbourne A nous last week over Mark
Hambourg. According to Marshall, Hambourg is a sort
of musical lodging-house for four “ daemons.” He
has taken in internal boarders. Each “daemon'’
represents one of four great composers—Liszt, Chopin,
Greig and Beethoven. The Liszt animal is “ wild,
tyrannous, dare-devil and mocking,” and indulges in
“frantic devilry;” Chopin’s daemon is a gentle, faded
beast that pads gently over the keys like a
nervous cat in the dark. Greig’s representa-
tive is a “weird, passionate, haunting- spirit,”
that occasionally gets dashed wild, and has a habit of
brooding over “fearful deeds and more fearful imaginings
of woe and blood and death.” Beethoven’s daemon appears
to be plain hysterical, and its name off the stage is pro-
bably Mary Ann. Marshall says that sometimes when
Hambourg is disentangling a sonata or other trifle with
(say) Daemon 11., he is liable to a fierce flank attack, by
(say) Daemons I. and 111., which rush the piano, and kick
the notes with their hoofs, and then Mark has to struggle
fiercely with his mind to throw the intruders out. Some
day these four devils will break out and attack the baby.
Miss Ada Dwyer, who has introduced “Mrs. Wiggs” to
Australia, is an almost exact reproduction in appearance
of the American Mrs. Wiggs (Mrs. Madge Carr Cook), who
headed the co. in London last year. The Miss Lucy
(Florence Busby) and Lovey Mary (Lottie Alter) are
quite exact reproductions of the originals in the first
English staging of the comedy, for they are the same
people. Otherwise the cast seems more effective pic-
toriall.v (with one exception) than it was in London. Miss
Hazy and the virago, Mrs. Eichorn, are thinner and a
trifle more grotesque. Mr. Wiggs comes nearer to the
Australian idea of what that gloomy Lothario ought to
be. The exception is Mr. Stubbins, who looks too young
and insufficiently dour for the part. Stubbins, as Aus-
tralia gets him, is a humorist wreathed in smiles of sel-
fishness, rather than the hardshelled humbug who
married Miss Hazy on account of her fictitious bit of pro-
perty, and her bogus reputation as a cook.
“10-2-4”: Watching “The Truth ” last Saturday night
it struck me that a great revolution is occurring in our
social ethics, and that—as always the worid over—the
stage reflects it first and most clearly. In a 'mild wav
the reign of genial Ed. VII., following upon that of dour
smug Victoria, is having the effect on dramatic (and
other) literature that the coming of Charles 11. to the
throne of England had on the literature of the Crom-
wellian period. Modern playwrights have dropped the
early Victorian pastime of moral-seeking in all they
write. The wicked stage-person is not scarified in the
latest dramatic models. Far from it. He or she is gener-
ally (vide Becky Warder at Her Majesty’s) presented as a
charming young thingin whom untruthfulness, deception
and flirtatious conduct are mere interesting weaknesses.
Elinor Glyn’s “Three Weeks” and “Victoria Cross’s”
efforts along the same lines would have been fired off W.
H. Smith’s bookstalls and out of Mudie’s libraries in the
good old Victorian days. I can still remember the tre-
mendousness of Clement Scott’s indignation in London
Daily Telegraph the morning after he saw his first Ibsen
play—and Clement Scott spoke in those days for the
British public. A full half of E. B. Shaw’s writings Were
reckoned too “ foul ” a few years ago for introduction to
the home. Great artists who had been guilty) of “inci-
dents ” weren’t received at Queen Victoria’s court; now
they go to Buckingham Palace in droves. Maud Allan,
the semi-nude lady who danced before the King and
Queen the other day, would, had she attempted the same
antic in the presence of the late Victoria, have been
choked to death with penny tracts or felled to the earth
by a well-aimed Family Bible. Each year the British
point of view in matters of morality moves further and
further away from the point of view that obtained during
most of the late sovereign’s reign. lam quite sure that
if our present merry old monarch lives for another decade
we shall have a colorable imitation of the Restoration
drama in full swing wherever busking is in flower.
When The Bulletin went to press the
Union S.S. Co.’s Hawea had been broken down
and adrift on the Tasman Sea for 19 days, and
though two boats had reached the shore, the where-
abouts of the helpless ship was still uncertain.
Nicholas Fitzgerald, a picturesque old Tory
gentleman of the Victorian House of Rich Land-
lords, had just died at the age of 79. And that
curious ill-luck which attends reforming politi-
cians in Turkey seemed to have started, the new
reforming Minister of War having been found
dead at his desk. Possibly he had eaten some-
thing that disagreed with him.
BLASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is probably useless to discuss the ethics of the stage.
—The Lone Hand, May 1, 1908.
I hate theatres and plays, for they bring me back the
days
When my blood was working quicker than my head ;
When the pretty face and leg of some Connie, Kate or
Meg,
And much looking on the wine when it was red,
Kept my heart so pit-a-pat, it was little marvel that
I was out a lot more oft than mother knew ;
While the way my money went —now, I wonder, was it
spent?
Or just artfully inveigled from my view ?
Worshipped mummeries and mimes! Beery, cheery, tin-
selled times
In a motley world of mazy make-believe ;
Was that day of dazzled dreams quite so silly as it seems,
Quite so fit to cause “ right-living ” folk to grieve?
Well, old heads are not found strung on the shoulders of
the young,
And the never-have-been-tempted ne’er should boast,
For the moving point of view, with regard to what we do,
Is a matter of environment for most.
But I stay away from plays, as remembrancers of days
' When the Empire and Alhambra made me poor,
And the winking, yellow flare of the lights of Leicester
Square
Lit me dizzily to sup at the Cavour.
>Twas a mad, if merry, past, and of course it couldn’t last,
And a weird of ripe repentance I must dree ;
Though there’s room for the surmise—Would I sit and
moralise
Were the rainbow course of youth relumed for me ?
TONGA.
TALAFERAU.


SUMMER SHIRTS.
We have just opened a very large assortment of
ZEPHYR TUNIC SHIRTS. These are excel-
lent for Summer ; being made of soft, light
material they are delightfully cool wearing, and
the soft front makes them easy winners where
comfort is concerned.
These Shirts may be had in some effective
designs, including White Ground with Green,
Blue or Pink Stripes, Blue Checks and Fawn.
They have Stiff Square Cuffs and Collar Band.
All Sizes. PRICE
When ordering, please state SIZE OF COLLAR.
We pay the carriage on Shirts throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES, LTD. SYDNEY.
... An Offer to ...
Photographers.
In order to induce those who have not yet tried
The ENSIGN Roll Films.
one to each buyer of these magnificent FILMS
is now offered
at HALF-PRICE- tip to the end of October.
Only One ENSIGN BOLL FILM can be sold to Each Applicant on these terms.
ALL Usual Sizes to fit any Camera may be had.
mu RRTTTSH MADE FILMS are TAKING THE WORLD by STORM.
These BRIlISIl MAiJ NON-CURLABLE. can be developed in any
Nothing better is m&cie. Xn y ■pTr , pu , T?r ir P T?TPmTTj r TS
iOS Tan k, Machine, or Box. They give PERFEC1 KESULia.
Remember! Half-Price, one to Each Applicant till End of October.
HARRINGTONS LTD
386 George Street, Sydney
•*
Photographic Stock Merchants and Importers,
179 Collins Street, Melbourne; and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A DEVIL .
Butter is ‘2s. a lb.— News Item.
“ There goes that dear Mr. Jenkyns. ISN'T he a
darling!"
“ A most dangerous young man. I saw him at
lunch to-day. He ate butter with his potatoes.”
“ Red Tape ” complains :
Sydney’s attempts at street decoration and illumination
may be described as fairly {rood, but they can’t be called
Australian. An occasional Commonwealth flag- may be
seen, but of the emblems of our nation there are practi-
cally none. The kangaroo, the emu, the waratah, even
good old threadbare Captain Cook, are not to
be seen anywhere. Martin Place has a screaming
eagle at each end, and opposite him a golden
lion. Now an emu would be more in keeping, and de-
cidedly of more interest to the Yankee visitors. The
City Council has dotted Elizabeth-street with alternate
eagles and royal crowns. Why not eagles and kan-
garoos? The Government Architect has employed
1000 standards—union Jacks, British Ensigns, and
Stars and Stripes in about equal proportions.
Again our own flag is dead or missing. Among the more
ambitious of the Sydney decorations are those oh the
Custom House, Circular Quay. The main idea is a ship
at sea, representing the landing of the Puritan fathers
in the Mayflower, and a big motto, “ To our kindred of the
Mayflower.” The designer has made one blunder. His
Mayflower is a wonderful piece of marine architecture,
but it hgs three masts and is a full-rigged ship. The old
Mayflower was a brig, with but two masts like any other
respectable brig. Compared with this, the common error
of putting the wrong number of stars on Old Glory is
excusable.
“Chink”: Melbourne Age unloosed one
of its boy-reporters, and shot him over to Auck-
land the other day to “do” the ’Murkan Fleet.
This is what occurred :
And now as curve crosses curve, the great sinuous
living entity of death appears to curvet with itself in
awful overlapping folds, and every eye that watches from
afar narrows to a momentary thrill of dread. How can
a son of man hold those eager fiends in check, and not
turn grey at what might happen ? (No time for brooding
speculation ! Look, here they come ! The leading four
hung back, to line like chargers right up the channel.)
We gaze enthralled full into the grand breadth of the
noble Connecticut surging on, as some horned beast of
iniquity, full-mouthed. By Heaven, what a sight 1 In-
ward she comes, and after her the whole white torrent of
latent devilry.
Suddenly a small white cloud of smoke issues from the
Connecticut, followed quickly by another, till she looks
like Jupiter’s envoy trumpeting out imperious man-
dates to creation, the torrent of smoke wreathing and
caressing the fighting tops in splendid garniture .....
each magnificent unit a spectacle to feed upon to which
imagination shrinks to impotency.
If this is done in a dryland, what in the name of
slush will occur when the “ eager fiends,”
“ horned beasts,/’ etc., strike the green, beer-
moist pleasauncefe of Port Phillip ?
* » » ■' *
“.Briner A few out-of-the-way con-
siderations about the U.S. Fleet, just as a set-off
to the conventional stuff that is being writ. First,
then, don’t talk about these jolly tars. Nine-
tenths of them are just landsmen with sea-legs.
When the fellows'gome ashore the sniff of the
briny will be olf them as soon as the bloom is off
a peach, or the gloss off your bell topper.
Nothing is ingrained. They have precious little
love of the sea, and no love of the steel-
pots in which they haVe to voyage. Luck
gave me the offer of two days and nights
in such a one. I deserted before the first night.
It was gaol ; the best of ingenuity cannot make
human tabernacles of battleships. However, the
-Tackies (as the Yanks call them) are fairly loyal.
Yet there is great distaste of the Navy in the
United States. Every city has recruiters for it,
and there is always a shortage of hands. The re-
cruiters urge that you don’t need to be a sailor,
which is quite correct. The word sailor will
die out and be replaced by handy-man.
The essential training of officers and men in the
United States, German, and British navies is
not now done on shipboard. They are put aboard
ship with nothing to learn but sea-legs and the
application of gunnery to sea-conditions. The
training colleges ate on land. Theory is perfectly
imparted there, wjjth models of everything on a
ship. A great number of men deserted from this
U.S. fleet in San Francisco. The officers say,
“We don’t want a deserter back. Let him rip.”
They only want men who find their vocation
aboard ship at high wages.
* * * *
Among the arrangements made for the
Fleet visit quite the funniest is the formal official
section. On Thursday Admiral Sperry will call
on the Governor-General and on the Governor.
■He will then skip back to his ship, so that the
G.-G. and the G. can call on him. This is usual,
of course, and if these grown men didn’t play like
this Lord knows what would happen. But it is
the next day (Friday) that beats the band.
Sperry then lands “officially,” and is wel-
comed by Deakin, Wade, and Mayor Hughes.
Sperry landed the day before, only the trio
will play they didn’t know. These three will
then head a procession to the Domain and will
welcome Sperry some more. Then the procession
starts off home. Deakin, Wade and Hughes,
however, have to make an undignified bolt to
their several offices. They will beat Sperry easily
by 200yds., and the visiting Admiral will solemnly
call on them in turn. It will then be up to Sperry
to do a sprint, and he will set sail for the Con-
necticut so that Deakin, Wade and Hughes may
call on him. It is all very funny.
* * * *
The approach of the Fleet has not thus far
aroused much pro-American feeling in the bosom
of the Melbourne small boy. J. A. Miller, of
West’s Pictures, has tested the youth of the city
with a free distribution of flags, of the kind that
were sold for jingo purposes during the Farm-
burning period. It appears that the average boy,
when offered a choice between the flags of
America, Britain and Australia, usually selects
the last. The Union Jack meets with his ap-
proval, but is not eagerly demanded. He has
heard a lot about It at school and is getting rather
tired of it. For the Yankee emblem he has no use
whatever. His disposition towards the Fleet is
friendly, not to say genial; but when it comes to
waving a flag in its honor—well, he reckons that
the Australian flag meets the case. Patriotism
has got a fair start in Victoria.
* * * *
S.A. Supreme Court has before it at pre-
sent about the oddest land case on record. S. A.
was fixed up on paper in London before ever being
colonised in realitv, and every original subscriber
in 1835 got an Order, with the right to select one
acre in the new province’s capital and 134 country
acres. Owing to some trouble over an insolvency
(which happened in London in 1837 !), there is
one of these Orders still outstanding; the last-
but-one was honored in 1879. Town acres are all
gone long since, but the legal owners of the claim
reckon they still have the right to select 134 acres
of the State’s country lands anywhere. They
have made one sporting attempt at Granite
Island, Port Victor’s breakwater, play-place, and
camping-out reserve, and another at a great slice
of the Port Adelaide river bank. Now they say
they will be content to take £4OO worth of farm
land way-back. But the State has got annoyed,
and says that people who are so casual as to let a
claim slide during 73 years before pressing it
deserve to lose the lot.
COHEN'S NOSE.
BUMPED CITIZEN : “ Confound it, man, can't you
see beyond your nose?"
COHEN: "No, thir. I’m rather thort-thiyhted.”
From the papers presented to Yic. As-
sembly at the instance of Watt, M L.A., it now
appears that Manning, the Bendigo homicide
whom Bent, Swinburne and co. abandoned to the
gallows, had been reported by Dr. Jones, Inspec-
tor-General of Insane, as suffering from systema-
tised delusions. Though sane in most matters, he
was quite irresponsible on one point—the relations
and conduct of his wife. The three doctors who
were allowed to make further inquiry in conse-
quence of the public outcry, reached a similar
conclusion. Yet, after first dooming this lunatic
to death, Bent and co. sentenced him to imprison-
ment for life, as though he were a mere criminal,
instead of an unfortunate person suffering from a
mental disease. No wonder they didn’t want
those reports made public.
* * * »
Whenever this country feels that God
should be entreated, in a doleful fashion, to save
the King, the wretched State school kid is dragged
from his game of marbles, or torn from her doll;
and dressed in his or her best, and arranged in a
large herd by teachers who skirmish rouud and
bark like human sheepdogs.
When the proper moment ar-
rives, the fattest and most im-
portant-looking whacker waves a
stick, and the herd throws back
the top of its head and looses a
series of dismal, long-drawn
howls, understood to be a frenzied
appeal to Providence to rescue
the monarch from things un-
specified. Nowadays, when the
worried kid looks up from his mud
pie and sees the head teacher ad-
vancing, he knows what is ex-
pected of him, so he scrambles
sulkily to his feet, salutes, and
bursts into an enraged yell anent
the salvage of his ruler. This
sort of thing is calculated to plant
in the small boy’s soul a virulent
hatred of the monarchical sys-
tem, and make him grow up a
Republican. If his arithmetic
proves in later years to be de-
fective, owing to the enforced
waste of time in his youth, he
will probably feel inclined to seek
out the tombs of the present .Educa-
tion potentates and dance on them
with clogs.
The Maoriland case of a year or so ago, in
which a man bit a considerable piece out of a
woman and then won her heart and married hei,
was in substance repeated in Sydney last week.
After a furious encounter, in which a man knocked
out a woman’s front teeth, reconciliation was
effected. The man took her, with all her damages
thick upon her, to a dentist, had her repaired re-
gardless of expense, and that evening drove her
off to the place where these matters are attended
to and pledged himself to keep her in home and
victuals all the days of their joint lives. And with
her new teeth she said “ I will.”
Maoriland Par-
liament is threat-
ened this session
with another view
of one of¥the most
battered o!d skele-
tons in its coal-
cellar. The ancient
bones will be trotted
out with the Meikle
Acquittal Bill,
which had to be
abandoned last ses-
sion owing to the
violent reception it
received from a
large section of the
Government’s own
supporters. Th e
present measure
proposes not only to
regard Meikle’s con-
viction for sheep-
removing in 1887 as
expunged from the
records, but further,
to make him a grant
of £5OOO as compen-
sation for the six
years or so he spent
in gaol, after his
conviction on evi-
dence subsequently
proved, jjnore or
less, to be perjured.
The old opposition
promises to be again
forthcoming from
members who re-
gard the proof of
Meikle’s innocence
as not conclusive.
Meantime the gen-
eral question of
allowing appeals in criminal cases has
been shelved by the Judges (to whom it
was referred by the Government), pending the
result of the experiment-in the same'-,direction
that is being made in England. The Government
is anxious to finally dispose of the Meikle business
at any cost, as it has proved a very* expensive
agitation to the country for many years. More-
over, while it is hung up, the champions of other
men who say they ha.ve been wrongly convicted
grab the chance to urge their claims; and it ad
causes more worry than J. Ward likes.
* * « *
Since the Rev. Gladstone, of Nathalia
(Vic.), has been in legal holts with his Anglican
ex-bosses, brother cleric Scott, of Alexandra, iu
the same State, has been lying low ; but t’other
day he stressed the fact that he was still alive by
happening at the Alexandra vicarage, where a
bailiff was holding the fort temporarily. Accord-
ing to that official’s narrative, the good man
“rushed at him in a great rage, foaming at the
mouth,’’ and threatened hiany fearful calamities
if he didn’t clear out at once. He cleared, taking
refuge iu the adjacent bush \ whereupon the
pastor, having firmly re-established himself,
heaped embers on the enemy’s head by sending
him a hot supper and a blanket or tvyo. verily,
what with Gnash, Scott, Gladstone and other
burning and shining shepherds, the Anglican
church in Victoria is in troubled waters and the
sheep are running wild and getting boxed; also
they are not shorn as regularly
-as heretofore.
A SUGGESTION.
Inspired bv the result of Mrs. Resant’s lectures, a num-
ber of people held a meeting about three weeks ago, ana
decided to form a new “ church.’' „ ,
“We want a place,” said the chief promoter, where
people who cannot appreciate the dogmas of the present
churches can go."—News' Item.
Ms it is to be run on free ancl easy lines ;
ivhy not have the choir garbed in tiyhts, and the
preacher appropriately made up. This should
draw the people, and even if it did not briny the
women folk it would Certainly briny the men.
KID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A little child shall lead them. — lsaiah.
In France last year deaths exceeded births by 19,920
thousands. — JS'ews item.
The Kid it is a gentle thing, beloved from Pole to Pole ;
The Kid it is whose joyous howls shall keep a nation
whole.
Not armored fleets or armed men suffice to guard our
shore ;
The bursting shell may help us well, but these shall count
for more.
The things our whiskered fathers wrought, the things
great armies did,
Were one and all and great and small wrought in the
name of Kid.
Though pewters foam and bookies yell their odds upon
the course,
We shall not fail through wiles of Bung, nor droop be-
cause of horse ;
One thing alone can cause us woe and close our coffin
lid,
It is not beer we have to fear, but just the lack of Kid.
The lack of the adhesive mouth, the loss of tiny hands ;
The empty cot’s the leper spot that marks the falling
lands.
The Yankees boast a mighty fleet —the nigger’s Kids in-
crease
To guard the Dago and the Finn who swell their ranks of
peace.
Each baser people grows like mad, but most of all the
black.
The British van is brown and tan beneath the Union
Jack.
And we can make our lasting choice, and once for all be
rid
Of carps and sneers and haunting fears by choosing Jap
or Kid.
Now lift the standard to the stars, the rampant kangaroo,
And show to all the wondering world what Austral lands
can do ;
Make every home with urchins swarm, and let us all
agree
An average hive of twenty-five's a modest family.
Then shall the bards of days to come extol the things
we did,
While o'er the world our flag unfurled proclaims trium-
phant Kid.
MAORILAND.
D. M. WRIGHT.


(i W. C. Wockner, Toowoomba, Q., writes,: —
‘ I find Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy an ex-
cellent medicine. After suffering from a severe
cough for two months it effected a cure, It gives
me pleasure to recommend it,”*
For the ailments we all know and fear,
The pill so long wanted is here ;
Laxo.Touio its name,
Its merits can claim
Naught but praise from us all far and near,
LAXO-TONIC FILLS, l(>id. and Is. ed.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northeote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
The “CHANGE” HAT.
THIS Hat proved such
a favorite last Sum-
mer that it will again
be in heavy demand this
season. Those who have
waited for it should order
now, as the supply is
limited.
It is such a convenient
Hat will change to
several different shapes.
Made of soft fur, it will
crease or curve in any
shape like a Panama,
while the shape, with the
rim turned down, gives
ample protection from the
sun.
We have just received
a fresh consignment of
these Hats, and are sup-
them in Stone
Brown, Mid-Grey, and
Fawn. Although the new
tariff has raised the landed cost somewhat, the quality and price remain the same as before.
©fce "CHANGE,” 12s. Cd.
Postage 9d. extra; Interstate, Is. 3d.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
An advfc. in Adelaide Advertiser (13/8/’08)
tells the short story of the mixed marriage :
T PARIE AMOK SHAH, hereby NOTIFY MY WIFE,
Myrtle Misey Mahomet, that I am leaving:
Adelaide one day next week for the country. If she
wishes to come away with me I will pay all expenses,
and we can live happy together ; if not I warn any
person against harboring her after this date, as I
intend to take further proceedings.
PARIE AMON SHAH.
In other words, Parie Amon Shah notifies that no
one is to detain the dog after this date.
HIS CAKE WAS DOUGH.
“I believe opposites make the happiest marriages."
“So do I, Tim, and I’m looking for an old man
with money."
The long-distance lunacy has broken out
in a fresh spot. At Ballarat, one day recently,
two girls skated continuously for 12 hours, cover-
ing in that time an alleged distance of 97 miles.
And so a new madness hath begun, and, for a
month or two, we may expect to hear that the
Misses Muttonhead and Nunatall have beaten the
previous record by 2ft. After that will come the
deluge of whirling champions, and, if one fool
eventually drops dead from sheer exhaustion,
well—there will be one fool less. There are so
many fools that a small circumstance like that
won’t be noticed.
THE BOTANICAL THIRD PARTY.
ELDERLY BUT ROMANTIC HUSBAND (to his wife):
I am the oak and you are the vine.”
THE FRIEND (aside) And lam the phylloxera."
This is written by a man at Hong Kong :
There are some twists in the human economy yet to be
investigated, and one that shrieks for attention is that
which leads a white girl to mate with a colored man. In
Sydney and Melbourne there are scores of girls living
with Chinese as concubines, or married to Chinese by
Chow rites and ceremonies. When the Chow returns to
the Flowery Land the girl sometimes gets the
chance of going with him ; but generally she is
left in the mud with two or three little Eurasians,
who, being bastards, have few citizen rights, and
being further cursed with mixed blood, become
despised members of the flotsam and jetsam of
humanity that crawls in the back alleys of our
cities. In this case there are two courses open
to the deserted mother. Either she takes up
with another Celestial, or opening the unwilling
door of death, she hastily makes her exit. And
if she does, it is far better for her than if her
Chow husband had taken her with him to China.
Here, in Hong Kong, she says good-bve to
everything European. On arriving at Canton,
where all peregrinating Chinese leave their
v wives, she is informed bj r her smiling John
5 that “My have got one” (or maybe two)
\ “ piecee number one wife here. I tink you
! ' l allee same b’long number two—or three.
Savee?” She doesn’t really savee till her
master—for she is a slave, with not even the
paltry rights of Chinese women—returns to his
village. She is sent to work from daylight to
dark in the paddy fields, hoeing or humping
a pair of wooden buckets, each of which holds
as much as an ordinary kerosene tin. The
stick on which they are slung is never removed
from her shoulders during the day, except when
it is enthusiastically laid across her back. At
night she has to dispute her rights to a corner
of the wretched hovel with the fowls and pigs.
Should she quarrel with her sumptuous fare and
luxurious surroundings, or fail in her work in
the fields—well, she has no claim on China, and
may be killed with impunity. And, apart from
sudden death, there are many thorny ways bv
which she can be gradually shoved into the next
world. Chinese grass widows cannot safely in-
dulge in sweethearts, as so many of their lig’hter-
hued sisters do, and when they learn that their
husband has been a giddy bigamist in his ab-
sence, they are jealous ; and when the object
of their jealousy is brought back as a slave, and
left almost wholly at their mercy, they do not
spare her.
Not 600 miles from here are at least seven
luckless white women who have learnt the
reality of a material hell. Some of them were
seen by a walking party of gentlemen belong-
ing to this port. When approached they did
a brisk 100yds. for the hut, where inquiries were
met by the owner—with a hoe. The reason
for their prompt disappearance when whites
are about is simple. The mere fact of talking
to foreigners would mean the loss of a toe or
a finger, or maybe even a breast, and unless
there is a certainty of escape, the risk is too
great. The last escape of the kind that
. attracted public notice here, occurred three
' years ago, when some outdoor Customs
officials helped three Melbourne women to
this port, whence they were sent to their homes.
The Ladies’ Benevolent Society has a fixed rule
under which it deals with such cases. The woman
is sent to her home, and the chief officer of the boat
is entrusted with £5, to be handed to her on arrival.
W. S. Forbes, the Sydney manager for a
Scotch tire insurance office, who cashed the com-
pany’s cheques for £l5OO, and proposed to go
trading to the South Seas on the proceeds, made
a pitiful appearance in the court last week.
When he was arrested he was in a cab going to
the police station, his ketch Mavis having
been hung up in the harbor owing to some trouble
with the Customs. There wasn’t any defence,
except that the accused was a sufferer from
“masked epilepsy”—which seems to be the brand
of the disease in which the sufferer works off
steam by being violent and generally unaccount-
able at times. Probably no counsel was ever bold
enough to plead “ masked epilepsy ’’ in the case of
a poor prisoner who had no influence—when that
sort does violent things, it’s just because he is a
bad lot. Judge Backhouse couldn’t swallow the
plea all in one lump either; so he said “three
years.” But as he also said that the prisoner
might apply for a license presently, on the ground
of his health and his previous good character,
Forbes isn’t likely to spend many months inside!
Few people can masticate Bent’s massive
ear so successfully as the Sabbatarians, and sich-
like. They know the snuffling streak in his
character, and his too-evident desire to appear as
the self-constituted guardian of morals. So they
hang on to one of Bent’s head-wings and whine
the while. Quite lately, they whined in half-a-
hundred keys about the desecration of thd Sabbath
that would transpire if the Government carried a
thousand or two cadets per train on the Lord’s
Day. The unfortunate infants were to come down
from the country to take part in the Fleet celebra-
tions ; and Sunday was found to be the Only day
suitable for their transportation. But the Holy
Joes of the community—and there is at least one
such Joe in Bent’s own Cabinet—raised their
hands in pious horror, and asked, in effect,
whether it was possible that their only Adolphus
could contemplate such a sacrilege. And Adol-
phus, whose lug showed signs of energetic tooth-
work, said “No ! ” But ’Dolph reckoned without
the Assembly, which arose in its grandeur and
shouted “ Whaffor?” So then he was ordered to
say “ Yes.” And he said it.
CHARITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a recent Orange demonstration atFitzroy (Vic.), the
Rev. Geo. Tregear reminded Orangemen that they were
‘‘pledged to refrain from uncharitable conversation.”
He then proceeded to remark that Catholic communities
included “the lazy, lying Italian, brutal Austrian,
treacherous Spaniard, low Brazilian, cunning Mexican
and miserable Irish.” At Footscray, on the same day,
the Rev. A. J. Clarke told Orangemen that the Irish
would first entertain and feed a visitor and then cut his
throat. (Laughter.)—Daily papers.
Oh, loyal Orange breth-er-en,
I pray you act as Christian men,
And, should your spleen arise, count ten
Before you speak.
Nay, hear me, brothers, I beseech.
Refrain from all un-Christian speech ;
Remember! He, whose Word we preach,
Was ever meek.
The lazy, low Italian,
The cheating, shifty Mexican—
All Papist creatures to a man ;
And brutes at that—
The scum that Rome’s base agents skim
With mummery from ages dim.
Dear brothers, let us sing a n’ymn,
And pass the hat.
Oh, Orangemen, I cannot find
Words to express my state of mind—
Fit epithets to name the kind
Of brutish man
Who takes the word of Popery
Concerning dim eternity.
But, brothers, let us ever be
Ker-is-ti-an.
Then, look upon the Irish too—
A miserable murd’rous crew !
They’ll feed you up on Irish stew,
Then cut your throat.
And—it is truth that I allege—
They’ll shoot you from behind a hedge—
Dear brothers, recollect your pledge,
And peace promote.
Oh, loyal, loving, Orangemen,
Be tolerant and kindly when
You preach about your fellow men,
E’en as I be.
Be ever mild and circumspect.
(A curse on all the Popish sect !)
And, brothers, brothers, recollect
; Sweet Charity.
VIC.
DEN.
WEEMIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Detective-Sergeant Macmanamny stated the only ex-
planation accused gave was that he had got entangled
with other women. — Daily paper.
0 my ! Delirium tremin),
’E ’ad an eye Hair all streamin’,
For other weemin ; Beamin’
Conduck (we don’t deny) On
Reverse of seemin’. B’yootiful weemin,
Upon Weemin ....
The wine wot shone Weemin ....
With evil beamin’
’E’d glance, and say “ Be- young weemin !
g-one!” Weemin
But not to weemin. An
Weemin
Weemin, J An’
Weemin, weemin, Weemin
Nuffin but weemin, Jin’
’E ran abart screamin’, Weemin ;
’E lay abart dreamin’, All sorts o’ weemin:
Schemin’ Stout weemin, lean weemin
(Teeth set, gleamin’), * Gen’rous an’ mean weemin,
Thinkin’ o’ weemin, Shy weemin, bold weemin,
Puffin’ an’ steamin’ Young weemin, old weemin ;
A regular demiu But WEEMIN .....
(Seemin’ All —of—’em—Weemin.
N.S.W.
H— GH M— CR — R.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
/Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Robert H. : Would gladly publish your defence
of the late Dan Barry (not that anything very bad lias
been said about him) if you had made it an interesting
document. But the style is more wooden than a timber
yard or a Freetrader’s head Quineecha : You tell the
girl :
1 have written you a letter—just the usual sort I’ve
penned!
A letter one might write to one who was no more than
friend—
But you will read between the lines the message I would
send!
In fact, you have sent her an acrostic. It is not a fit
thing to break into verse over... .R.R.T. : “ ltemorse ”is
extremely uplifting, but there’s rather too much of it....
J. Fraser: Many thanks for' letter. ..M.F. : Some
“ substance” in the last lot, but more foolishness....
Proprietor (Peak Hill, W.A.V: (See B. 6/8/’OB, Wild Oat
p»ge....E.G.: lthymed platitudes all. One of them :
Little drops of whisky,
Little sips'of beer,
And you will see reptiles
If you persevere.
....W.E.H. : Refrain idea good, but the rest too com-
monplace A.E. (M.L.): The nerve of your suggestion
that we should print and pay you for the aged chestnut
beginning
This is the story of Mulga Jim,
And the terrible things that happened to him,
And finishing
Tuey don’t waste much of a sheep in town,
took our breath away for eight seconds by the otfice stop-
watch. ... Sentio: Rather obscure.... Leo Lear: Good
points, but they are so familiar that they have to be made
in a new way to be acceptable nowadays.... Vieve F.
Lorance: The general public is not interested in the
movements of Lou, and yotfr verse about him is very
ragged... .G.A. : Both miss rather badly. Pastorals con-
cerning the quaint whims of Mum are at a discount just
now... .Cosmos : Chief faults are (1) a straining after
humor, (2) heaviness of touch. They are pretty bad
faults....F. Morton: The treatment of heartburn is one
of the few subjects that we don’t handle in this column.
Try a doctor or write to one of The bookshops for Musketl’s
“ Health in Relation to Diet,”,.. .G. U. (M.L.): “Twilight
No More ” suggests that you have a gilt for sentimental-
song writing. That is a bard, even a dangerous
thing, to say to a man; but you are in Maoriland,
afar, and so we feel secure, more or less
Cranky Jim: Unfortunately when a man gets old and
silly, he always thinks the things of 20 years ago were far
better than the things of to-day. It is a phase of intel-
lectual decay for which there is no remedy. W r e used to
get exactly the same kind of letters in 1890
Jonii: You haven’t lighted on interesting subjects
T’other-sider : Awful poem beginning “They call
this God’s own country,” duly burnt... J. W.
Kelly : That aspect of the Orion case has already been
dealt with.... W.J.M. : Too “preachy-preachy” for
this paper.. . .J.McL. (M.L.): Calamitous is the only
word that describes your poetry and politics... .Micko’
the Woods : Rather too labored a pulverisation of such
foolishness as Pitman’s..... .Sr. : Yarn re chucking'
bricks at the gas-meter man is a mere variation of the old
one about an apple a day (if deftly projected) keeping the
doctor a way.. ..J.McI.: Positively grim. Four lines:
Here’s an optimistic ode to plain Billy Squires,
Chief boxing master of all the fair Australias ;
A born fighter—one of Jack Wren’s highflyers,
And worthy son of even yet more modest sires.
Misere : Have powerful doubts about your yarn of
the aged man who got so used to going without boots
that he didn’t miss his big toe for many hours after the
Wheel of a dray had taken it off... .Laertes : Certainly a
remarkable occurrence, but it needed terser telling
J.F.M. : Seems to have been merely a glorified nightmare.
....E.Q.R.: Too much Tweedledum and Tweedledee
about it Shaw N. : The best of them are the
parodies, but The Bulletin doesn’t like parodies
G.E.L. : It very nearly scored through its, simplicity
and directness. Pilv it is so prosy in places
Grey Lynn : Please send address to the accountant
R.R. : The point is so fine that it’s invisible.... W.B. :
None bad, but none quite good enough . .Disciple:
Good example of how not to write J.D.C. : “Dashed
off,” was it? Well, it’s dashed bad !....Myra : Didn’t
have the remotest chance... .Peter P. : Glad you told us
it was an ode. We thought it was a nightmare....
Oriens : You’ve thought the matter well out, but jour
style is anathema.. ..F.D. : Story of Hebrew and ill-
fitting vest only a variation of many stories re many
Hebrews and much misfit c10’.... W.E.B. : Five pages too
long for its interest ...Mac Brose: Keep calm. That
correspondence-missile was hurled at another poet....
G.R. : A parody, and so it was hurled into the place
where puns gnash their teeth and sizzle eternally.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
K. : Picture of no account, and the joke about
Cruncher the dog-is frayed out these days Dorothy:
Fear we can’t do anything with the picture of T. Bent in
his garden, though the work is good for a girl of your
ag-e Oscar H. : Drawing shows a lot of natural talent,
though not much training. Bristol board is about the
best thing, though the paper you are using serves the
purpose well enough... C.H. : Picture of a very large
insect in a bed declined.... Stif: Well, the figures are out
of drawing, and the background is out of drawing, and
the joke is inferior Bob S. : Not much humor in
picture of injured gentleman leaning against shop
window'.... One of the Nation : Drawings bad, and
there’s nothing in the jokes.


S>^
AS"*" O
i n fc.
krwfT^nj
or> s W a +0 € *£ h
Hjiir '•''"■'V J
*fyT 'h**je^
(]ose|>l>
Olxy'
If roe
so f>rcsS €a i
y>ot
'h*K«. on 'the lob- Wrt b, S.
Kg’*
l^ t " ,^ Ke
S Sltil K^sf 0 '"
b°sv-
I if y&f*
off
you & l C®?*
"Vjaye *
Qo
Aro\> of 4-.
M*er
(^ovn © J**H ln ' htv >*
Ik ' < 2 or 3
I wectfs °f £7 w 'V ,r I |
&**«■ C0U^, | /
oC CWdie$ V .
ordered f° i '' Cr
o€n"t’ C{C^
fcsjs . V
NL tor sr*t ** e %{
enable I
|@v be«'S /k
» ro u i
\«*>J«>y 7™®'
IWMBafAgo 'W
|eeislaC*lon o"
• •»+“& Wlv"
vU} Subject"
"'Wb*, r j + * o
%1 5
Soi>ieevfc
• / ✓ // / //^.
Vicr—' ‘ S*y Oew-T
Jlo»+" y©**
U a, s»*r
-trouVle »f .
\e.^T em «|> .
<- jg>;
"R€ B Ce'"Kii
V rou»iU -ifye co&s+'s i j-_ ba,ss„
X ' KITZuS .n*e
X. dv<KVt\ c> o se- wX-
see 'ehnj ; X^
Wot"
Aor *
1 j
"While Tommy Bki'is r
#C Bi II ar«
1
-ftc cb^*»>^ ov » sl >M > '
0C^11)C
f?th9 “to Know' CIL
5 f
»s rabidly IS
Cheches
P^er)
MELBOURNE MEMORANDA.


The Lucky Opal —
BLACK,
The opposite of white opal. Marion
Crawford writes as under in “Soprano” :
“ I wish you good luck,” he said lightly.
“ Thank you,” she answered. “ One can
never have too much of it, never. Get
talisman, a charm, a ‘ Jagoo.’ . . .
> p
{jjgjjß#
m
r
,y 4
Exquisite Ruby and
Sapphire in centres
surrounded by
Diamonds, £BB.
Exquisite Fire Opal
Centre arid
Diamonds, £l2 12s.
Opals and Olivines,
our own make,
BLACK OPAL is the best, but if you choose that you must get it yourself—you must buy it, find it,
or earn it: otherwise it will have no effect.” • :?,L-
We hold the finest stock of this beautiful Gem in Australia. We receive it in the rough from the
mines. We cut it—we mount it—we set it —in Sydney. We export it largely. We retain some of the
best for our Sydney retail trade, and sell it at half London retail prices.
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
TaKen Hot with Lemon a.t Bedtime
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
CURES COLDS.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT AND OFFICERS OF THE BATTLESHIP FLEET ON BOARD
THE MAYFLOWER ONE HALF-HOUR BEFORE SAILING FOR THE PACIFIC.
On the President's right is Admiral Evans; on his left Admiral Thomas, Admiral Sperry,
and next to him Admiral Emery.
Copyright 1307 by Underwood & Underwood, N.Y.
The wandering “ Vigilans ” writes from
the Maranoa (Queensland) :
Opium prohibition ! It makes me smile. Out this way,
prohibition makes no difference, except that a 30s. tin
’possum and the scalper. Mitchell is kept going by the
skin-industry. Corbett and Co., local storekeepers,
'bought 250,000 skins last year, at from 7s. to 9s. perdoz. ;
and three other stores are in the game. Four pubs do
good business, and a bigger one is under way-
It is a wild and woolly settlement. On IBth May, a
scalper, Tom Philips, died in a chair at 8 a.m.-the doc-
tor said from heart failure. He had knocked down a
At 4 P- m - the y buried him as he died
The scalper goes over the country with a pot of pollard
mixed with cyanide, and slaps the stuff on the trees.
Young and old (I refer to ’possums particularly) are
butchered in this wholesale manner. Storekeepers in
Mitchell and some in Roma sell cyanide by the pound,
Yet a chemist has a certain formula to go through before
he can sell half an ounce of laudanum. Whole families
are camped out—men, women and children. But the
man who makes the big cheque employs niggers. The
nigger wants opium, and so he gets it. He won’t
work without it. Dealers (of a kind) run up the river
with the drug and do enormous business.
As for cyanide, they say it is not allowed ; but that’s
all moonshine. Pretty well every camp has cyanide, and
almost every scalper uses it. • By judicious snaring this
skin industry would last foV ever; but the cyanide pro-
cess will soon destroy it.
When you get to Roma you get amongst the cookies—
wheat-growing cockies ; but the crops are very irregular.
For a year or two they may have none. Some mix the
farming, keeping stock as well. But it’s a poor business,
to judge by the appearance of the township.
Boring for water at Roma they struck gas, and erected
a gasometer to score the stuff ; but the supply didn’t
last. Oil indications are seen in the shape of shale, and
vigorous boring has been done, but no liquid has appeared.
Prickly pear is making great headway. On some of the
stony ridges it is impenetrable. Whole tracts of country
are already useless, and soon half the Maranoa will be
destroyed for stock unless something very vigorous is
done.
“ Harry” : It was Finnigan’s old woman
who bustled round and kept the cash at the pub
that Finnigan was supposed to run out west of
the sixpenny line. She always took possession of
the coin as soon as convenient after Finnigan had
taken it over the bar. But one day she was busy
over a clutch of chickens, and there came a casual
party of shearers, or fencers, or something. And
it was Dave Regan who shouted first—five bob.
And Finnigan put the cash on the end of the
shelf, as usual, by the card packs and domino and
draught boxes, near the kitchen passage-entrance
end of the bar, from which place Mrs. Finnigan
took it whenever she came in, or whenever
she thought of it, which was often. (Small
change was seldom used in Finnigan’s
shanty.) Now it was Dave Regan, I fear,
who winked at his mate Joe, and Joe stretched
himself and said : “Ah well ! Let’s have a game
in the parlor,” and went round and reached for
the cards. But he shouted first—before they ad-
journed to the parlor—five bob altogether (it was
west of the sixpenny line, remember). Finnigan
put the five bob on the shelf, felt the shelf vaguely
for a moment, muttered, mostly to himself, “Oi
didn’t see th’ ould woman come in,” and
returned to his glass-cleaning. (He’d rub
up his pewters and glasses hard all the
afternoon, if there wasn’t a customer
within 20 miles.) In the parlor, there was some-
thing wrong with the pack of cards they had, and
Joe’s mate, Jim, came into the bar and reached
for the other pack. Incidentally he called for
drinks round, to be brought into the parlor—and
he put down five bob. Finnigan put the two
half-casers on the shelf, felt it, muttered “ Th’
ould woman’s bin in agin,” and returned to his
glasses. Later on, Jim’s mate, Bill, came into the
bar for the dominoes or the draughts, shouted in
his turn, and paid in the parlor. Finnigan
brought the five bob into the bar, put it (or them)
on the shelf, and muttered. “Sbure th’ ould
woman’s.bin in agin!" Towards evening the
party dwindled and vanished, leaving Finnigan
and his wife to argue over the matter, which they
did for many a day and night. Dave Regan says
he believes it ended in “desertion, or judicial
separation, or insanity, or something.” He doesn’t
remember rightly what was the end of it.
Dear B.—The Big Sack comes in many
ways. Know of one man who was stung to death
by bulldog ants, not far from where I fly my
house-flag. He was making his way campwards
««<? *• rr** H
ln tak n ? a ® hort , cut through the bush, stepped
over a ledge of rock. Ihe fall of 4ft. only stunned
him, but the bulldogs, whose nest he had invaded,
did the rest. Medical evidence testified to death
as resulting from formic acid poisoning, the result
nf V,ifoo Vut^t
SeCI UlteS - — V ELDT.
* * * *
“Henry Phelthatt ” : Be the half-eaten
t ox which Ihe Prooslian tells of (B. 9/// 08).
A. once , was under the impression that none of
Heaven’s creatures would soil its dentistry with
dead dog, knowing it was dead dog. Then I dis-
covered, in one fell swoop, a being that almost
lived on it Said hpino- was a man—nlrl Tnnir-kf.
ZL® P Wd ? A man ° do , nl , clk ,®’
e German. He always had a couple of half-
grown pups on the chain, fattening. The hind-
quarters of his canines he converted into hams,
the rest was either pickled or smoked. He used to
live at Long Creek, near Mudgee(N.S.W-). Cannot
„[ ve n; g Drpsp „ t address—hp is dead Hp held tn
f, , P esent address he is aeaa. hie held to
tJ ? e lasfc thafc a good bull-terrier stew, or the brains
°( a bloodhound boiled, beat all your Frenchified
kickshaws hollow in the matter of toothsomeness.
ADJUSTABLE.
BILL ( head milker at Riley's, down for a trip): “But I say, Mister, these 'ere 'ats 'r' all too
big fr me 'cad."
COHENSTEIN : “ Vy, that's the peauty of dese kind of 'ats. All you've got ter do is ter let yer
’air grow, an' in six veeks dese 'ats vill fit yer like a glove."
“ Poodgeregah ” : “The Prooshan ” (B.
23/7/’08) mentions that Ah Eat carries on a trade
in wombat galls, which he pays for at the rate of
55., and ships home for the use of Mrs. Ah and
the junior Fat as a hair-stimulant. Have been in
the Maranoa district (Q.) lately, and there also saw
him purchasing the bile bags of the crow whole-
sale. But he didn’t use them as a hair-urger or
wool-exciter. He generally hung them on his
caravan until they were ripe, then boiled them in
his billy, and bottled the mixture for use in moder-
ate nips in times of great mental depression. The
skin was, I fancy, then dried and used as a Joss
offering. One of his leading supply stores was
run on a sheep station by an aboriginal, who,
besides getting a shilling per delicacy from Fat
Ah, also received 3d. and 6d. respectively from
the station owner and the local Board for
clearing John Crow off the premises ; so our black
brother, the crow butcher, was making good
money.
« * * *
“ Edyson ”: The alluvial was all pretty
deep at Fetticoat Lead, and France and Quain
were sinking in the deeper ground, and having a
good deal of trouble, not only from the water and
the rotten character of the country, but from,
strange visitations of unpleasant fauna. The dis-
trict about Petticoat bred snakes numerously, but
for all that it seemed to France and Quain, that
they were getting more than their share in the
First Blow. They never went on duty but they
found a few links of black snake in the shaft, or a
bundle of infuriated scorpions, and if Quain left
the windlass for a moment ten to one a 401 b.
native bear would fall wallop on France,
50ft. below, and knock all the joy of life
out of him. One Monday morning, when Quain
went into the First Blow to continue sinking, he
got in holts with an infuriated mountain cat,
which, by the mysterious workings of Providence,
had got down the shaft without impairing its
vivacity or diminishing its combative qualities in
the least. When the miner had pinned the cat
to a slab with a pick through its vitals, he left
it fighting the handle, while he trod the life
out of a snake, and smothered some centipedes,
a jew lizard, and four scorpions. Eventually the
partners became suspicious, and France worked
an ambush scheme on the enemy, and discovered
Quong Lee, of an adjoining ciaim, dropping a
snapping dog dingo into the shaft. Four Chows
sustained injuries as a result of tips discovery,
and after that the tailed heathen who held the
controlling interest in Petticoat resorted to other
tactics to crowd the white devils off the lead,
Returning from a Sunday spent at Launceston
Quain and France found their 60ft. of shaft flooded,
with the water almost to the windlass sill.
Reckoning there had been an inburst, Quain and
France gave it up, and forsook Petticoat in utter
disgust, little thinking that a whole army of
Chinamen, each with two nail kegs on a bamboo, ■
had been industriously emptying the creelf into
the First Blow mine all Sunday afternoon and
night.
“B.K.’s” legend : I have listened in vain
for some voice from the City of the Plains to
answer “ Bulawayo.” Mrs. “ Governor ” Stewart,
wife of the old General who first acquired The
Mount, and ancestress of the present hale and
hearty tribe of Bathurst Stewarts, rode a horse
from Sydney to Bathurst in 12 hours on one occa-
sion. Most of the track was appalling in those
early days; the road over the mountains being
especially awful. Her feat was regarded locally
as a world’s record. Deeds of this sort don’t
appear to do injury to the stock, as the lady’s son,
the present owner of The Mount, is, at 80 odd,
as sprightly as the average kid of 60.
* * * *
“ Itan ” : North Queensland has two
lakes of great beauty. Lake Eacham is better
known than Lake Barrine. They are both the
craters of extinct volcanoes. Barrine is nearly
300 acres in extent, with a maximum depth of
75ft. Dense scrub fringes them both to the
water’s edge. Neither of these lakes has any
appreciable rise or fall, despite the wet or dry
spells. The source of the supply is unknown, for
each lies on the crest of a mountain. Eacham
has no outlet. Barrine feeds Toohey’s Creek, a
tributary of the Mulgrave. In the ’seventies a
good deal of gold was fossicked oqt of this creek,
which suggests possibilities at the lake’s bottom.
A miner has been working a terrace there for 10
years, and still hangs on. A railway is now being
built to open up .the Eacham country, and the
settlement of the Barrine country has been com-
menced by Charters Towers men. They will have
some difficulty in sticking to the plough instead
of sneaking off to try the sluice-box.
THE FACTORY AND O’REILLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•O’Reilly struck Glengarry when the grass was green
and long.
Now, a pretty craft} 7 ' fellow was O’Reilly ;
He bought a bankrupt’s dairy herd at- ..Heyfield' billa-
bong,
Likewise a pile of cream’ry .scrip—he got them for a
song—
And soon his milk supply became two-hundred, gallons
strong,
And a man of much importance was O’Reilly.
I said to Fred Mclnnes, “ Does he test as well as you ? ”
(Fred’s milk was famed for testing pretty Rig-lily.)
His language when I mentioned “ test” assumed a varied
hue
As he called upon Gehenna to anoint him pink and blue
And magenta, if the Waster wasn’t getting Four point
two.
Ah 1 the Factory was good to P. O’Reilly
We neighbors of O’Reilly all got something over. Three,
(We were wont th'sqan the,test sheet/sharp and slyly)
When “Three point” came along our way with fell
persistencee
We’d apostrophise,the fact’ry.with a blank apostrophee,
As we tried to put the plumb bob on the Delphic
m.vsteree
Why the dickens “Four, two,” tarried with O’Reilly.
But we fixed up Arthur Martin when ’twas Arthur’s turn
to shout
(For the manager you had to tackle flyly),
And in O’Reilly’s bottle every morning, turn about,
Went the milk of Glen and Murphy and Killeen and
Charley Rout,
And we loaded to the Elimsqll mark with Toohey’s ale and
stout,
And we laughed and lay in ambush for O’Reilly.
Our milk in Reilly’s bottle went “ Four, two.” The other
way
Went his in ours—a fact we noticed dryly ;
And we forthwith held a caucus, when we had the deuce
to pay,
And we carried that “ The Fact’ry took the cocky for a
jay.”
The Board replied by. sacking Arthur Martin straight
away ; •
And turn it gave his billet to O’Reillv,
vie.
BLACRBOT.
A DOUBTFUL MATTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McNab, though Scottish, felt in softened mood,
As in the street, unsteadily, he stood.
And to his friend, McNeish, expressed delight
To see the splendor of the orb of night.
McNeish gazed at him with a scorn profound :
“Eh, mon,” he sneered, “your brain is turnin’ round.
Dae ye no ken, ye daft an’ silly loon,
That that’s the sun, an’ no the blessed moon?”
They argued hotly, just as Scots will do,
Each one prepared to swear, till all was blue,
That he, and he alone, saw things aright,
And that the whisky dimmed the other’s sight.
Then, as the discord waxed to fever heat,
A brother Scot lurched slowly up the street.
They asked him to judicially declare
Whether the sun or moon was shining there.
He listened gravely, paused before reply,
And gazed profoundly up into the sky,
Then said, “ Ma freens, I canna solve your doots;
The fac’ is I’m (hie) stranger hereaboots.”
S.A.
DEXTER.


EDUCATION BY POST,
—The Proprietors
1 o f Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College.
Moore Street, Sydney.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GROVE’S signature on box. Is. l^d.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy may not be
needed to-day, but what about to-morrow? Colds
come into every home, so be prepared.*
“Swaggie”: It was an extremely hot
day, and the humble settler had been good to me,
a weary wayfarer. I was taking dinner, and
being treated like an honored guest. We had
reached pudding, and were comparing our past
lives, when a terrific shouting and battering on
the meagre verandah in front of Stony’s house
brought us into the open with a rush. Stony was
greatly disturbed. I think he imagined his pride
and joy, Billy the baby, was being kidslaughtered
on his own doorstep. Outside we found a short,
squat, tattered sundowner of the town species,
banging furiously at a much-mangled, five-foot
black snake. When the stranger had hammered
the viper out of shape, he hooked it away
behind him towards the slip-panels, with a
furious imprecation. Then he mopped his
tepid- brow, and gazed with horror at Stony.
“Me Gord!” he said, “but I was on’y jist in
time.” He pointed to Billy the baby. “Another
arf second, ’n’ ’e’d ev ’ad ’im.” Stony clasped
his pride and joy with a yelp of thanksgivings.
“ Yeh see,” said the tattered saviour, “ I was jist
cornin’ up t’ th’ ’ouse t’ arsfc for er bit o’ dinner,
’n’, maybe, er bob ’r two t’ ’elp me on me way,
AMERICA TO AUSTRALIA.
“ Waal, sonny, you've a nice bit of country here.
Guess you want a few of the little things I’ve
brought over to show you how to defend it.
Buy ’em, sonny, buy ’em, good and ’plenty.”
when I sees ther snake a 4 crawlin’ on th’ verandy
after ther dear little child. I pounced on him
’n’ pulled him back by the tail. He turned and
struck at me, but I downs on ’im with me stick,
’n’ he’ll never bite no more beautiful babies,
thank'Gord!” Naturally, Mr. and Mrs. Stony
fell on the neck of the hero ; they dragged him
in to dinner, and when they had fed him full,
they gave him half-a-sovereign and started him on
his way with heartfelt blessings. That was
all right, but four hours later I overtook the sun-
downer, and he dragged a mangled snake behind
him on a string. “Hullo!” I said. “Look
here, that was alia fake. What’s your game?”
He yanked the snake on to the grass before him.
“ Er bit used up, ain’t he ? ” he said with a grin.
“I’ve battered ’im t’ death on three verandys t’-
day, ’n’ now I’m on the look out fer er fresh one.
It’s er good lay, mate, but go off on the other
track if yer talcin’ it on, won’t yer ? ”
AFTER THE KNOCK OUT.
THE VICTOR: “ Won't you shake ’ands!” THE FAILURE : “No, thanks!. I've'ad some!
“Albatross” (though this is a cookery
item and ought to go into the Woman’s Letter by
rights): I was only once in my life invited to a
cannibal feast. We were making an excep-
tionally long trip, and the skipper, to economise,
had put us on extra-short allowance. The victim,
a namesake of mine, was captured by Western
Ocean Bill, the sailmaker, per means of a tri-
angular piece of Muntz metal nailed to a piece of,
wood, and towed astern at the end of a fishing
line. Bill had been in the ship for four years, and
had become a solid institution. After capturing
the ’tross, Bill remarked casually to us : “ They’re
fine eatin’ birds if you cook ’em right.” We
smiled grimly. We knew what Bill’s game was—
he was the “ old man’s ” pet, and he was trying to
reeve himself further into the boss’s good graces by
offering a solution of the cupboard problem. After
plucking its feathers and yanking its innards out,
Bill took the bird to the cook ; but the cook, a
negro, would have nothing to do with it. He had
been there before. Our fo’c’s’le was a deckhouse,
and was divided from the galley by a jerry-built
wooden bulkhead. At about 11 a.m the watch
below was awakened by a peculiar sound, accom-
panied by a powerful “pong.” It proved to be
vaporised essence of albatross rushing through
the cracks in the bulkhead, making a kind of
whistling noise in its flight. Bill was cooking the
albatross. In a moment the watch below was
running out on deck, pinching its individual nose.
“Tip-top,” said Bill when he brought it to the
fo’c’s’le at dinnertime. Ten stomachs heaved as one,
and we told Bill we would not dream of robbing
him of a fraction of the delicacy. “Eat it yell-
self,; Bill,” said Jack. We all applauded Jack’s
suggestion. Bill, being shamed into it by all
hands and the cook, tackled the sea-fowl in a des-
perate spirit of bravado. In about five minutes
he made a bolt, with a huge, tarry hand obscuring
his “ duff-trap,” making a queer, guttural sound
in his throat as he scooted. He communed with
Mr. D. Jones for some time. Then we attached
a kedge-anchor to the bird’s remaining leg (Bill
had eaten the other) and threw the anchor over-
board.
* ■* * *
“Wang”: Was once leading Matilda,
who had her ears back and was pulling hard on
the halter, through a dreary-looking section of
the map of Victoria, and when darkness and rain
began to fall simultaneously had arrived at a
dreadful-looking spot. But there was balm in
Gilead in the shape of a tumble-down shanty,
deserted and literally falling to pieces, and into
this I dived while rain drops about the size of 2s. Gd.
fell with heavy thuds and splashes. It was a
better place inside than out, and selecting the
star room of the establishment I made myself
comfortable with firewood taken from the other
rooms. Next morning I awoke with clear sun-
shine falling on me and birds singing all around.
A beautiful place is the bush in the morning.
After a light breakfast Matilda and I resumed
our journey, and about a mile further on found a
cocky’s place. The cocky seemed interested in
me, and inquired feelingly where I had slept the
night before. I told him. He shifted his pipe
round to the other side of his face and informed
me it was a haunted house. The last proprietor
had murdered his wife and then committed suicide,
and no one had been able to live in the place
owing to the lady’s dismal habit of walking round
every night and inquiring for her husband. Then
he shifted his pipe back to its normal position
and gave horrid details, from which I gathered that
not only had I slept in the room of the tragedy,
but that my head had rested on the identical spot
usually marked X in the illustrated weeklies, and
I had lain on the blood blot which not all the
waters of Galilee would wipe out. He finished his
narrative with the solemn assurance that he would
not ha,ve slept there for amillion. Then he looked at
me yearningly, but I didn’t offer him the million.
I thanked him for his information, courteously
declined his offer of ss. per week with tucker, and
strolled on my unrejoicing way. About a year
later I was dragging the reluctant Matilda through
the same district, and one night, just as I was over-
taken by a heavy shower, I looked round anxiously
for shelter. There was the same old tumble-
down establishment, looking more dilapidated
and eerie than ever. I shuddered and almost
expected to see the ghost waltz out and ask me
about her husband. Fear gat hold of me, and
drove me forward till I found a straw-stack,
where I passed the night in company with a
couple of disreputable cows, and got rheumatism,
and had my spare clothes eaten by Poley, the
junior heifer. I knew I was a fool, but I did it.
Consider the horror of being found alone in a
house like that with a married female ghost !
That was .the fear that drove me to sleep in the
haystack.
“Pym” : Some Bulletin scribes have
been haranguing one another lately about Aus-
tralian foxes having lost their cunning, if they
ever possessed any. Whilst duck-shooting on the
Mantis Creek, near Tumbarurnba (N.S.W.), a fox
crossed my path. My mate and I commenced a
vigorous pursuit, whilst Br’er Fox made a leisurely
chase, just keeping out of range. After about an
hour’s running round and dodging across the
creek and back, the fox apparently got tired and
thought he would give up. So heran up to a hol-
low log, turned round, gave-'a casual, despairing
look, and crawled into the log. My companion
went to a house a- mile away for an axe. I sat on
that log and waited. When the axe arrived, we
cut the log open, and the fox wasn’t in it. He
had never been in it—at least, T presume so.
Now, how did the man get out of the box at
Maskelyne’s show at Sydney Palace?
* * * *
“ Flinderino” : Up this way (coastal
North Queensland) King Billy and his wife
Nellie usually breakfast on bandicoot cutlets.
The little rat-like animals are captured by means
of a common box-trap, generally made out of a
candle box or kerosene case filched from the
nearest: store. As a rule, Binghi is too tired to
construct the trap, or hasn’t skill enough, but he
gets a white cobber to put it together for him. On
retiring for the night Binghi places the trap,
baited with a piece of bread, in a likely spot out-
side the gunyah. He is seldom disappointed. At
sunrise the fire is stirred up, and the captive slain
and cooked. When Black Brother has disposed
of what he considers to be hi.s fair share he passes
.the few remaining scraps over to Nellie. When
;Nellie has picked "the bones there is very little
bandicoot left.
“ T. Burgin” describes a tight place :
Away back in the ’seventies,, when North Queensland
was to Southerners an unknown land, I was digging on
the Cape. One day there arrived at our camp a man
with a waggonette, lour good horses and, more remark-
able, a woman, young and comely, sitting beside him. I
rendered them some trifling services, and at night, the
man showed me some specimens which he said he bad
picked up at his last camp. He knew nothing of mining,
he said, and asked me to go with him to look lor the
reef. I consented readily, and next day we went back
and started our prospecting.
In the evenings I had a chance of studying my new
mate and his wife. The man was small and insignificant,
with hay-colored beard and light, shifty, grey eyes. The
woman was a magnificent animal, and there was a chal-
lenge in her black eyes which I was not slow to accept.
That was not discreet, but at three and twenty a man
has still a good deal to learn about most things.
After a couple of days’ searching we found two leaders,
with a pipe of verj rich stone in one of them, and in six
weeks we had I7ooz. of dollied gold. At a depth of 80ft.
the gold ran out, and we put in a crosscut to strike the
other leader, but it was barren. We then decided to sink
another 10ft. and, if we got no gold, to clear out to the
Hodgkinson. At 40ft. our face was still barren, and the
next day we decided to abandon the claim. Our last
holes had been put in. I had charged them and sent the
tools to the surface. Then, with a last hurried glance
round, I “ spit ’’ the fuses, and turned to put my foot in
the loop of the rope, and be hauled to the surface.
Looking up, I saw the looped end rapidly disappearing
above my head. The burning fuses were filling the shaft
with smoke, and like a flash I saw they intended to mur-
der me. Without quite realising what I was doing-, I laid
my hand on a projecting piece of rock on the side of the
shaft, and with one spring, grasped the floor of the
crosscut. Then, somehow, I got a good hold with both
hands, and struggled into the crosscut just as the first
hole exploded.
Whilst the shaft was still full of smoke, I reasoned that
niy would-be murderers would be certain to have a look
down the shaft to see that their work was complete. I
took off my scanty working clothes and dropped them
over the edge of the crosscut. As the smoke cleared
away I heard voices at the brace, and a couple of large
stones were thrown down. Then, after an interval, the
rope was gently lowered and left hanging. To climb to
the surface would have been easy enough, but, as the
man and his wife were in possession of the firearms, I
decided to remain where I was.
The lowering of the rope and leaving it there was a
masterpiece of strategy. If they were questioned, all
they had to say was that I had stopped behind to give
the claim a further trial. When I ventured to ascend
to the surface, I found they had left a supply of pro-
visions at my tent and the tools at the brace. After a
cautious look round to make certain they were gone, I
descended the shaft to get my clothes, and, looking for
my boots, picked up a piece of quartz, the weight of
which caused me to examine it more closely. A glanc-e
was sufficient to show me it was the richest stone I had
seen taken out of our claim. I looked at the beautiful
bit of gold studded quartz in my hand and wondered
what I had better do. It was only my oath against
theirs, and who would accei t my unsupported word
against the evidence of a man and his pretty wife? So I
resumed work without any further delay and, in three
weeks, dollied 2500 z. gold. But it was all hard earned —
every ounce of it—for by working alone in that part I
was taking a risk that most men would have shied at.
Teh years afterwards I was in Townsville. The Supreme
Court was sitting, and the general topic of conversation
was the horrible murder of a prospector for which a
woman and her alleged husband were then being tried.
The jury had .brought in its verdict before I looked in
at the courthouse. I reeled from the place. The woman
was my old friend, the Lady of the Cape !
THE CREEK PICNIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s torrid enough when yon cross the creek where the
bush-track strikes the ford,
And you toil up-stream, too warm to speak, with a bushel
of lunch aboard ;
But, although it feels like a load o* lead, you remember
it’s mostly beer,
And that Bill, bowed down (full beer ahead !), is lumbering
in the rear,
And you think, with a spasm of utter blis-",
Having torn your way through the clematis,
When you’re camped in the cool o’ the creek-side—this is
a bit of all right, up here !
When the billy’s boiled, and the blue smoke, wreath and
coil and cloud, goes out
Across the creek, and the pool beneath shows the trail o’
the leaping trout,
Then you take your tea, or your beer, and you wait for
your chance, like a sporting man,
And jmu collar a girl and some lines and bait, and you
lose the crowd, if you can,
And .you shun the spots where the sunlight shines.
And Eliza helps .you to set the lines,
While the raspberry-vines make choice designs on her
stockings of silken tan.
And it’s now the spider goes crawling round, and the
chill, creek-haunting frog,
Pat-eyed, that in mossy spots is found, and the lizard
upon his log ;
And they’re all o’ them Snakes to the picnic-girl—she
will squeeze your hand and yell,
Clean scared, and she’ll shake her skirts and whirl white
lace around and tell
The listening bush how brave you are.
And the distant cries and laughter jar
On the sacred silences—faint and far, which is just, as
blooming well 1
But the bunch, at supper time, yelp and shout and
chase you back to grub,
They’ve got the tucker-bags emptied out on the edge o
the darkening scrub,
And you’ve caught no fish—no more than four is the haul
o’ the crowd I—you wish
They had let you alone for a day or two more where the
waterworks sob and swish
Where the silken sounds o’ the whispering trees
Make melody in the cool creek-breeze—
[Sigh here !] For when you’re with sweet Elise you forget
about food and fish !
vie.
FRANK HENTY.
Bill Lang.
Just now a conflict of opinion rages around the-
topical subject of Bill Lang, who has been engaged-
by a Sydney syndicate to meet Burns and punch
for the honor of his native land. Many experts-
argue that, judged by his recent performance
against Griffen at Melbourne Cyelorama, he
stands only Buckley’s chance of downing the
Canadian.
He had two stone the best of the weights with
Griffen, nevertheless he was not immediately
triumphant. His critics found fault with him, as
they have ever done, for “ hanging fire.” Up to-
the fifth round, when he knocked his man out,
Bill had seemed to leave the issue in doubt, and
if that display were his true “form,” he could
not be expected to give Burns much trouble
when they present arms to one another.
But the big ’un was not in good health
that night. Moreover, he was not trained
to the hour. When he enters the ring to fight
Burns and earn the £6OO he is to get (win
or lose), the critics of William Lang will possibly
have to take a discount off their complaints re his
“slowness,” his “want of science,” and his “lack
of ginger.” The man is Mighty, and, like the-
truth, he should prevail. Truth doesn’t always
prevail, but it is worth, backing in a fight to a
finish.
Lang, like Burns, has departed from the family
name. His-father, . a-sturdy Swiss, brought the-
name of Lanfranchi with him to this country.
His mother is a fine, strong Irishwoman, with a
strain of l prize-fighting blood in her pedigree*
From, one or other—or both—of his parents Lang
has inherited the best characteristics of the born
pugilist. Despite a broken nose—bashed in his
second big “go”—he has a fine fane of its
type. Boxing, viewed in the light of Bill’s
countenance, is a “ noble sport.” He’s a modest,
kindly giant—a good sort —a man of mind as well
as muscles. Havingformed thosemuscles, or some-
of them, at a Melbourne blacksmith’s anvil, Bill
went opal-mining at White Cliff (N.S.W.), but-
never managed to strike a patch. 'At Broken Hill?
he started to cultivate his taste for stoushing, and
when he returned to Melbourne he fought his first
fight—a draw—with Starlight. That was three-
years ago.
Then came the damage to his nose. Ever since-
the trademark of pugilism was imprinted’on his-
frontispieee Lang has mixed the business of
glove-fighting with his other industrial pursuits.
He has won 13 battles within the past 12 months,
whilst trading as a “dealer” in packing-cases,
bottles, etc. He and his partner run a couple of
lorries, and have three men in their employ. Bill!
drives a lorry himself, and although one of his
eyes may be temporarily closed for repairs,
the other keeps a sharp look - out for
orders. He has always been a practical
sport apart from the ring. When -he was
employed in the harbor works at Fremantle
(W.A.) he played a lot of football, and nowa-
days he is the pride of the Richmond (Melb.) foot-
ball team. For a big man, he is a good runner
as well as a smart cyclist—smart enough to win a-
couple of bike races up country.
To meet Bill Lang in private life and “draw
him out” is to be impressed by his personality.
His strength is not confined to his physique. As-
a boxer who stands 6ft., measures 42in. round the
chest, and turns the scale at about 13Jst. when
stripped for the fray, he naturally commands re-
spect. He seems even more formidable when he
quietly] discusses his pretensions to win the-
championship of the game he loves best. He was
quite a novice, as he says, when he stood up-
against Johnson, the tall nigger whom Burns*
BILL LANG, Pug. and General Dealer.
Photo by Barroni, Melbourne.
thus far, has avoided. The darkey, judging him
from the rawness of his style, expected to make
short work of him, and, as a matter of lact,.
Johnson’s manager backed his man to win in three
rounds. Nevertheless the novice lasted until the
eighth round, when his second threw up the
sponge. In the meantime he had managed
to give two or three good, hard knocks-
to the expert colored person, and there was one
moment when, but for the boards being so slippery
(they fought in the open), Bill might have scored a
knock-down blow. He thinks he would be worth-
backing against the gigantic Johnson to-day. lor-
his coming fight with Burns he fancies himself con-
siderably. Squires often tried to knock him out-
in their practice spars more than a year ago, but
the vaunted punch of the other Bill never put-
this Bill to sleep. Indeed, he has never yet
been knocked out by. anybody. As for-
his own punch, Lang remarks that it lost
a lot of its force for a while, subsequent to-
his “go ” with Johnson. He was then learning to-
be “ clever,’’ and was so intent on the study of
how, when and where to hit that he had no deter-
mination to spare for the delivery of the blow.
In due course the old power of punch returned-'
to him, with interest. He was strong when he-
fought Johnson. He is nearly a stone heavier to-
day, and he has not yet reached liis prime for-
stoushing purposes. A great boy is Bill Lang j.
his 26th birthday happened only lately. HA
reckons that he is improving every week, and,,
concerning his chance against Burns, his final
remark is “Wait and see !”


THE THREATENING MASS.
In the House of Commons Colonel Seely admitted that the question of the admission of Asiatics to the colonies was an overwhelmingly important one. —Gable
YES, IF IT SUPS IT WILL BE FAIRLY OVERWHELMING.


Mr. William Me Crossin, Wandsworth,
N.S.W., says:—“Those that once use Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy always want it again when
needing a cough medicine.”*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences
Tel. 321.
F. 0* Robinson, Proprietor
Of all the silly proverbs, one
Whose vogue should be diminished,
Is : “ Woman’s work is never done 1”
It should be : “ Never finished ! ”
She’s always working, understand,
To keep the home together,
And has Woods’ Peppermint Cure on hand
For colds in wintry weather.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Ttouble,
and Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper
appreciate good advice, and we are glad, there-
fore, to be able to publish the following from a
prominent physician.
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of
kidney trouble and other diseases, such as rheu-
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some form. The most dangerous
feature of this disease is the fact that many people
have it without their knowledge, and consequently
neglect it until it has reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must be given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a
prescription which we have seldom known to
fail in any case. It contains no harmful in-
gredients, is pleasant to take, not expensive, and
can be supplied by any good chemist. It is as
follows
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid. Barkola Compound,
one ounce ; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bedtime.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few
weeks, it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for rheumatism, kidney and bladder
trouble, backache, and all allied complaints.
Note. —Other papers are privileged to copy the
above.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Chairman of Committees Coombe, speaking
in the S.A. Assembly the other day, said that a
time of peace had come over the politics of thq
Crow State, so that the Liberal lion, the Con-
servative lamb, and the Socialist goat were lying
down together. (“You will get into trouble if
you call the Socialists goats,” said Davey James.)
Coombe went on to remind Premier Price of the
Scriptural warning to “Beware when all men
speak well of you.” The Premier replied, “Oh,
I know all about that text; I have got it hanging
up on the wall in my bedroom.”
Thus John Warren, M.L.C., a fierce and
narrow-minded old Tory squatter of S.A., on the
deceased statesman Kingston :
South Australia has not benefited through Mr. King-
ston either in morality, religion, commerce, manufac-
tures, or development, except in measures affecting the
farming community. Mr. Kingston’s strong support of
that curse of Australia, the Commonwealth Bill, justifies
me in saying that it would have been better for S.A. if he
had never been born.
And this was .T. P. Wilson, M.L.C., in reply
In every portion of Australia, including the Federal
Parliament, tribute has been paid to the dead states-
man’s memory ; and it remained for South Australia, the
place of his birth, and for a member of this Council, to
heap calumny and reproach upon the name, life, history,
and fame of Mr. Kingston. I have seen Mr. Warren wear-
ing the King’s uniform, but never before have I heard
one worthy of that uniform desecrating the memory of
the dead, whether friend or foe. I look upon the man
who is cowardly enough to insult the dead as the most
abominable of all cowards. The dead statesman was
accorded a State funeral by his country as a mark of
honor and respect. Will his detractor be so honored?
I think not; for no one would mourn his loss. When the
hon. member’s name is forgotten, the name of Kingston
will be fresh in the minds of a great people, who-will
honor and reverence the man who helped to lay the
foundation of the Australian nation.
And after that there was a kind of awkward
silence.
BURNS AND SQUIRES.
“ Adelaide ” : Hans Heysen, as an artist,
, ~ . ■ -j , Y. i i.pi »
deserves all that is said about him by Cr
(B. 6/8/ 08); but why the present attempt to make
him out a self-taught boy of the 3d.-a-week,
pathetic-anecdote type? As a matter of plain
fact he studied under James Ashton (father of
W jll Ashton) for at, least five years, woni the
gold medal of Ashton s academy, then a scholar
ship, then various bronze and gold medals ot itie
Royal Drawing Society. The same fairy-tale
suppression of prosaic facts appears in Melbourne
Herald, and even in the official catalogue of the
S.A. Art Gallery, and is in this latter instance
• i , , • .i . 4 40i.,;40
considered so glaring that (according to Adelaide
.REGISTER) it is to be officially corrected forthwith.
Premier Price says he used to hit them
hard with a suit he wore in England. When any-
body told him that Protection and Labor legisla-
tion put up prices, he used to smooth that suit
affectionately, and remark that it was built in
Adelaide of tweed made at Lobethal, and it cost
£2 15s. Then the argument mostly stopped.
“I’m going to have it pressed, and then I think-
it’ll still do to wear in Sydney to show to the
American visitors,” he adds.
Australia has probably
produced more brilliant metal-
lurgists during the past few
years than any other country
in the world, and one of the
most brilliant of them—W. T.
Gronow—died at Port Pirie
(S.A.), the other day, at the
too-early age of 43. At Port
Pirie the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary has what is now re-
cognised even in America as
the most complete silver-lead
smelting plant on this tidy-
sized globe, and Gronow was
its superintendent. His spe-
cialty was the silver-lead
furnace; he lived with it and dreamed of it.
He was a South Australian, who began to suck in
his scientific knowledge at the Ballarat School of
Mines, and for the last 18 years he had been
patiently wheedling their secrets out of the com-
plex Broken Hill sulphides, on the metallurgy of
which he was a tremendous authority.
Premier Price has definitely asserted that
he won’t accept the position of Agent-General for
S.A. He doesn’t think his political usefulness is
nearly ended yet. Treasurer Peake and Opposi-
tion-leader Butler are the men oftenest mentioned
for the position, which is worth £l2OO a year, and
is tenable for three years. Up to date, every
S.A. Agent-General save Grainger has been an
ex-Premier.
Thus Iceberg Irvine, speaking at a Mel-
bourne function the other night: “ The extraordi-
nary thing was that those who were trusted
with the complicated machinery of Parliamentary
government had no qualification than that they
managed to induce a certain number of other
people, as ignorant as themselves, to send them
into Parliament.” In other words, the people
who send Irvine into Parliament are just as
ignorant politically as Irvine himself.
Died at Brisbane on August 10, aged 82,
Sergeant-Major Patrick Kearns, messenger at
Queensland Parliament House since 1881. At 21
or thereabouts he enlisted in the 53rd (Shropshire)
Regiment, which was immediately ordered to
India. There he served under Lord Gough, and
afterwards went through the Mutiny, being
present at the relief of Lucknow. He was sub-
sequently appointed to the Civil Corps of the
East India Service, but soon after turned up as
sergeant of the 101st Royal Bengal Fusiliers. He
was afterwards stationed at Sydney and Brisbane,
and next went through the Maori War. After
that unpleasantness he returned to England and
got his discharge, after 22 years’ almost unbroken
soldiering. While stationed in Brisbane he had
taken a fancy to the place, so he came back and
got the stiddy job before mentioned.
A disgracefully dirty and creased piece of
paper found its way into Vic.
Supreme Court lately, and was
regarded with much awe by
several Gents One. It was the
probate parchment of the will
of James Bruce, of Bulmershe
Court, Reading, Berks., Cold
Country. Bruce passed out in
June, 1906, worth about
£165,000 in shares and deben-
tures in companies in various
parts of this globe. When a
person so situated dies the law
provides that his executors
must deal with his estate under
certain rules—with Costs. Pro-
bate of the will, as granted by
the High Court of England,
must be exhibited to the com-
panies whose shares help to
make the estate, and their
seals must be duly affixed,
etc., etc. —all with Costs. The
Bruce parchment bears already
no less than 265 seals—the
Victorian estate is under £lOOO
—and the document has been
presented to many courts by
many Gents One; and so
many of them seem to suffer
from a soap famine that, as
before mentioned, the parch-
ment is by this time a most
dilapidated and unpleasant
document. But it is a very
valuable script, nevertheless,
and represents quite a com-
petence in the way of Costs.
“ S.S.” narrates :
You will have noticed the extreme politeness of Mr.
Burns when he refers to Mr. Squires, and the respectful
language of Mr. Squires when he is telling of the fine
accomplishments and gentlemanly manner of Mr. Burns.
This is not usual with the profession, but I am reminded
of a celebrated Melbourne bruiser who once bumped
against a rival sl-ogger whom he was presently to meet in
the ring. Profuse apologies followed. “Lor’ blime,
whatcher want J’ sling that cow so much taffy for?”
asked the trailer of the celebrated scientist a little later.
“ Well, you see,” said the pug, “ we’re fightin’ next
Monday night, ’n’ if I wasn’t polite to him he’d have a
great chance to give me a punch on the nose.”
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Hebrew In-
habitant :
Ex-Rabbi A. B. Davis came from Melbourne to Sydney
to celebrate his 80th birthday. He was born in London in
August,lB2B; losthisparentsat 12. He became master of
the Westminster Jews’ Free School in 1848, and in 1852,
upon the recommendation of the Chief Rabbi of England
(Dr. Adler), accepted the office of Minister of the Synagogue
at Portsmouth. He married in 1853 Blanche, daughter of
Bart. Harris, of Covent Garden, and went to take charge
of the English and German congregation at Kingston,
Jamaica. Seven years later he returned to England, and
in May, 1862, left for Sydney to look after the Syna-
gogue in York-street. He retired a few years ago. The
York-street edifice was the first of the kind erected in N.
S. Wales. It still stands, new fronted, in the occupation
of a building society. It v'as opened in April, 1844,
Moses Rintel being the first Rabbi. An old store, still
standing in Bridge-street, was, prior to the York-street
building, used as a synagogue. The first Jewish marriage
in New South Wales was that of Moses Joseph, a general
warehouseman, of 71 George-street, Sydney, and Miss
Nathan, a member of the faith being authorised by the
Chief Rabbi in London to “ fix up and bind.” In the
’fifties of last century Julian Emanuel Salomons was
clerk to the Synagogue. That clerk became eminent at
the Bar, and only offended the Hebrews once—when he
threw up his appointment as Chief Justice.
THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER.
As seen on August 24, 1908.
James N. Brunker, M.L.C., once well
known in N.S.W. politics, is a very sick man
these days. He is now over 76, and hangs out
quietly at Maitland.
The depreciated job of N.S.W. State
Statist has been kept moving round ever since
Tim Coghlan gave it up. Goghlan’s lieutenant,
W. H. Hall, kept the chair warm for a while, and
if he would always do what he is capable of doing,
there isn’t a better man in the State for the
work ; but he was passed over, and the job was
given to ex-Sydney Grammar School master
Anderson, who hardly stays in one Government
billet long enough to say “Good morning ” before
he is rushed on to another one. While assistant-
actuary H. A. Smith did most of the figuring,
Anderson was rushed on as usual; and J. B.
Trivett now gets the peregrinating job. Trivett
has been for some years past Registrar of Friendly
Societies, and has done fine work in hauling those
concerns back towards solvency. They didn’t
like being hauled ; but Trivett stuck to his guns
—likewise his tables of rates and benefits—and
now they mostly thank the man they frequently
cursed with much vigor a few years ago.
“F.C.”: Judkins, ex-auctioneer, ex-lec-
turer, ex-Parliamentary candidate, ex-manv
other things, and now scissors-and-paste
manipulator, has bought a 50-acre farm out
m far Nunawading (Vic.) where the rabbit
is fat and the soil lean, the view extensive
and the profits contracted. He is alleged
to have paid £l3OO for an ancient weather-
board house, some outbuildings, a score of
very aged trees, and six acre’s of young
fruit trees —the rest of the place is pad-
dock. He travels out thither daily per
motor-car, to the amazement of the inhabi-
tants, who happen along casually and watch
his hearty efforts to acquire the whole art
and mystery of pruning, observe his
strenuous attempts to chase his Leghorn
pullets inside a three-foot netting en-
closure, and fill him with advice as to
how to persuade the crop of “ feed*” that
he put in two months ago to spring up and
flourish in a proper manner. I feel sorry
for Judkins; half the acreage a mile
further south or two miles further east
would have given him much better returns.
Still, he has got a gorgeous view—“a
panoramic outlook,” the auctioneers call it
—though I’m afraid he won’t find the view
very fattening, and butter has been 2s. a
pound.
Premier Bent told a bunch of re-
porters the other day that in the long ago
he was president of the Football Associa-
tion, and also president of the Funeral
Reform Association in Melbourne. Evi-
dently Bent claims that the comparative inex-
pensiveness of football nowadays is due to the
success of his Funeral Reform Association. It
cost a lot of money to plant an umpire before burial
reform set in.
The death of Ira D. Sankey recalls a
panto, incident. With Dwight L. Moody, Sankey
was holding meetings in Dublin, one Christmas
time. In the pantomime at the ancient Royal,
the clown said cheerfully, “ I’m feeling Moody
and Sankeymonions.” He was loudly hissed, and
the joke died a natural death. In those days the
shouting American evangelist was a novelty and
was taken seriously, and papers got out special
editions about him.
A letter from “D.M.W.” in Maoriland: —
G. Reid, as sefen in the pages of The Bulletin, arouses
much interest in our local spud garden. I have never
seen him, never heard him, never read anything about
him except in The Bulletin, and I want you to tell me if
the impression I have formed of him is correct. He is a
very fat, short man who wears a different suit of clothes
every day, but always sticks to the same eye-glass and
bell-topper. Sometimes he goes out looking for capital
sites and things with no clothes on at all, but he never loses
his eye-glass. He has a little dog of several breeds, whose
tail he decorates in many different fashions. He (Reid,
not the dog) always says “ Yes-no,” when asked to have a
drink. He generally carries a flag inscribed “ Anti-Sosh,”
and he is usually found consorting with old women and
very fat men. G-. Reid is an orator, a clown, an acrobat,
and he seems to be a member of the Australian Parlia-
ment, from which, considering the number of his occupa-
tions, it is not surprising that he plays truant most of the
time. He is generally taking cheek from a small boy
with a mortar-board hat, and his political career has been
finished for some years. He is also dead, but he con-
tinues to make absurd speeches, and he is generally and
in every possible way the very smallest potatoes. He is
several other thin s which I don’t remember very clearly.
Can you tell me if the impression I have formed of this
useless, uninteresting, important, remarkable, unsuccess-
ful, reckless, strenuous, idle, clever, forlorn, impossible,
foolish and dangerous man is correct? Your answer is
wanted to settle an important wager with Mr. Chow Fat,
the local asparagus merchant, who asserts that G. Reid is
“ Velly nice man, alleesame Chinee gentleman.”
Freetrade Senator Gould is one of tHe
directors and principal financial backers in a big
co., lately formed to establish a new woollen null
in N. S. Wales. There was heaps of space on
which to build a mill during all the years before
Lyne’s moderately-high tariff arrived ; but Gould,
the Freetrader, never thought it worth while in
those days. Still, no doubt, he will continue to
run for the Commonwealth Parliament on the
same old blessings-of-Freetrade ticket.
Adelaide is getting scraps of entertainment
from the Insolvency Court these days. While
“Charley” Muirhead, S. Australia’s one-time
beauty man and well-known solicitor, was away in
Melbourne fixing things up for the family law-
fight over the alleged hidden wealth of the estate
of old John Robb, railway contractor, another
part of the Robb family (Mrs. Muirhead was a
Miss Robb) petitioned to make Muirhead in-
solvent, and had his safes, etc., locked up and
sealed. The alleged bankrupt turned up and took
possession of the Insolvency Court, and said, by
gad, sir, he’d make ’em pay for it. Then
he poured out family history, and when mild
Commissioner Russell tried to dam the surging
flood, the dashing solicitor brushed his Honor
aside, and addressed any interposing Gent One
familiarly as “ old man.” Muirhead vows he
isn’t insolvent, that he’s got good securities for
£ll,OOO, besides property ; and lie is applying to
annul the adjudication and upset things in general.
A MIGHTY HUNTER.
President Roosevelt goes shortly to Africa, where he in-
tends to spend some time shooting- big game. His bag
should be a weighty one, as, according to scientists, most
of the lions, etc., are suffering from sleeping sickness.—
Neivs Item.
A remarkable gathering took place re-
cently in Melbourne, when about 30 old friends
met at the home of Mr. A. 0. MacDonald and
congratulated him because, though 80 years of
age, he was still going strong. Mr. MacDonald
is one of a family of 12, all born under one roof in
New South Wales. Two of the dozen died in
infancy, but that was a long while ago ; the last
death in the family took place 70 years back. The
ten survivors are aged, in the aggregate, 746
years, which is rather over 74J years each. And
all the ten are going strong.
HIS DESPISED POSITION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not care a fig for the position I hold. ... I will
not be bounced. Ido not give a button for the Premier-
ship. ... I’ll not submit. What do I care for office?—
Victorian Premier Bent.
“ I do not care a fig,” said he,
“ For Governmental glory.
If any says this dignity
The breath of life has been to me,
He tells a wicked story.
For frills and power to make a splash
I do not give a single dash.
“ The quest of office and of pay
Has been my life-long mission,
And if I cling in frantic way,
With tooth and toenail, nig-ht and day,
To my secured position,
I’d have you fellows all to know
It is because I loathe it so ! ”
VIC.
SNELL.
“AS WELL AS CAN BE EXPECTED.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Hector Carruthers is bearing with easy equanimity
his latest distinction. —Daily paper.
It doesn’t seem to hurt him ! He goes on
Unflinching through the world. No blush of shame
Betrays he’s conscious of the blot upon
The ’scutcheon. Does he seek to lay the blame
On anyone? He doesn’t! He just smiles,
And smiles, and smiles—as brave men smile at grief.
And walks abroad that all the world may see
Stern Resolution asks for no relief
E’en ’neath the frightful weight K.C.M.G.
He doesn’t seem to knoiv it ! Ah ! what bliss
Has ignorance conferred upon this man !
He hears no hooting. Common-sense may hiss.
He walks unconscious of the dreadful ban
That, pall-like, covers him. Don’t wake him. up 1
Walk all a-tiptoe. That’s it—tenderly !
(I love to look upon such wondrous things.)
Herein this ignorance do we not see
God’s amesthetic for the blight of kings !
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


44
YANKEE DOODLE”
Poco allegro
£
1
W-
fr.—3P
2SI=JE
§
EE
1. Yan - tee Doodle
2. ‘ ‘ We’ll treat you to our
3. And glad were we to
sail’d a - way, And
very best, We’ll
see bis might, Our
set the world all
make you feel so
Kins - man bold and
guess
home
clev
ing; His
ly; We
er, Thanh
a
' [ P —t-
-3
4
w=s
t
1. ships come West in
2. smoke to - bac - co
3. God with him we’ll
proud ar - ray, He
with your crest, Yes
nev - er fight, We’ve
seeks Aus - tralia’s
Yankee Doo - die
ties that can - not
ing, “Oh!
ly. ’ Said
er. The
i
¥
G
1. Un - cle Sam, our
2. Un - cle Sam, wild
3. pipe of peace we’ll
CHORUS
Light or dark, or
3
£
3F tF
pride’s a - flame, To you
with de - light, “In that
al - ways smoke, With Un
=l=
-sr
our hearts must sof
you make no blun
cle Sam’s big na
ten, So
der, I’ll
tion, The
cut or plug, a real right smoke is “ Yan - kee,” “ Bring
♦ *
3
M
?}■}
&
1. good of you to cross the main, We hope we’ll see yon
2. feel at home out here all right, How can I leave I
3. Glorious Yankee Doodle brand, The brand that licks ere
CHORUS
none a-shore,we’ve bet - ter here, Say! guess I’ll stick to
Yan
kee.”
m
m
3
"2:
an ee Doodle is perhaps, the most unpretentious national air in existence, but Americans cling fondly to it oi
account of its remarkable historical associations, and because it is typical of the progressive spirit of the nation. Musician
may smi e at the simple little melody, but it has a brisk, rhythmic charm akin to that of the “ British Grenadiers ” and
cheery, optimistic piquancy which proved irresistible to the American Troops in their early struggles. There have been variou:
ver al settings of which Americans don’t take much count. ’Tis the tune they stand by. This is traditional and where i
originated has been a matter of wide conjecture and futile argument.
p h r7 h r Ver Tu Came fr ° m orlglnally> there is no doubt as t 0 lts inspiriting effect on many an American battlefield
Probably the most notable service was rendered on the occasion depicted in the historical painting, which has been s,
happily associated in this country with the favorite “YANKEE DOODLE” TOBACCO. The unique episode, to which th.
painting refers, is thus described M F
was retreating through New Jersey on New York!* The** Tn^aSth'tV^J 116 Geneml > Sir Henr >’ Clinton, who, having evacuated Philadelphia
refused to fight, and many fell dead from exposure to the sun’s ravs Pnth S conducted the attack. The heat was so intense that som
were at a low ebb, a strange sight aroused them. Marching with'*drum ° and” fif °” E ' deS f” rately - As tiic day waned and the flagging spirits of La-Fayette’s soldier
silvery flowing locks, sturdily strode through the field- the son with bandaged h Par” T”’ { erenilah Wyllton ’ and }l, s son and grandson. The old father, wit
the soubinspiring rattle of the drum. Father son ani grand™ had E d,n S ! ** V* <* his grandsire, rolled out with hi,
of battle was in their eyes; they knew no fear"’a”d ml a wild gb e, a “»">P“f » volunteers, and were ever in the forefront of the fight. The fierce ligl
y y knew , and many a wild cheer arose on that fateful day, when “ Yankee Doodle ” wa, heard as it never ha, been heard before or since ”


Arthur Leplastrier ®, Co.,
Specialise in 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ ROBEY’S”
English Machinery, Portable and Fixed Engines, Traction Engines, High-
Speed Engines, Threshing Machines, Oil Engines, etc.
“NATIONAL” Gas Engines and Suction Plants (the Gold Medal Plant).
A RANSOME & CO., LTD., English Wood-working and Cask-making Machinery; MASSEY’B Steam
Hammers; “ NOVO ” High-Speed Steel, Tramway Material, Bteol Trucks, Looomotlves, eto.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold full stocks of all Mining Requisites,
including Air Compressors, Rock Drills,
Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps,
_____ Batteries, Krorn Rolls, Concentrating
Machinery, etc., and for the Mine Workshops, Lathes, all sizes Radial and Pillar Drills, Punch and Shear
Machines; Pipe and Bolt and Nut Cutters, Shafting, Pulleys, Belting.
Sola Agents for F. REDDAWAY & 00., Manchester, CAMEL HAIR BELTING; RANSOMES’, SIMS,
Addressed JEFFRIES’ PORTABLE, STATIONARY and TRACTION ENCINES.
Queen’s Bridge Btreet, Melbourne; Post Offloo Ohambers, SydneyjjordlardjtreeM^^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Bank of Maoriland :
Net To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1898.. £25,538 6 per cent. =£15,000 £10,538 £44,195
1899.. 38.466 7 „ „ 17,500 20,966 65,161
1900.. 42,348 8 „ ~ 20,000 22,348 87,509
1901.. 55,785 10 „ „ 25,000 30,785 118,294
1902.. 64,933 10 ~ ~ 25,000 39,933 158,227
1903.. 54,533 10 „ „ 25,000 29,533 187,760
1904.. 60,643 12 „ ~ 30,000 30,643' 218,403
1905.. 49,907 12 „ „ 30,000 19,907 238,310
1906.. 50,857 12 „ „ 30,000 20,857 259,167
Premiums on new share issue 50,000 309,167
1907.. 64,901 12 per cent. = 38,750 26,151 335,318
1908.. 71,045 12 „ „ 45,000 26,045 361,363
When Maoriland’s wild time of borrow and boom landed
it in the gutter, this bank’s dividends got down to 2| per
cent. That was in 1891 ; and in the same year £llos. per
share (£150,000) had to be written off. Thereafter, until
1897, 5 per cent, was paid; after that, things moved
along as shown in the list on top of this. Two years ago
another 50,000 shares were issued at £1 premium, making
the total 150,000. On all these shares £2 10s. is paid, and
there is a liability of £5. During the past few years the
bank has appeared to do extraordinarily well. With the
conditions prevailing it could hardly have been otherwise.
110w T well it has really done, however, only the future can
show'. It seems almost impossible that Maoriland can
escape a set-back ; it has been reverting to the old bor-
row and boom policy, and values have been inflated. It
cannot be told how a bank has really been managed
during the boom period until one sees how' it comes
through the subsequent burst period. A bank may, for
instance, have persistently built up internal reserves
which are completely hidden. It may also have built up
partly-hidden reserves by using profits to write down
premises. In 1907 this bank did use £15,000 for that
purpose (not shown in the profits in the table) ; this year
it has applied £12,500 to the same purpose. In the past
10 years the advances have increased by over 50 per
cent. ; but, notwithstanding many additions, the pre-
mises item has been cut dow’n from £94,884 to £79,807.
This looks, anyway, as though the National of Maoriland
had kept the probable burst in view.
During the past year the principal movements
have been as follows :
1907. 1908.
Notes in circulation .. £283,628 £267,134 Dec. £16,494
Bills in circulation, etc. 496,767 458,546 Dec; 38,221
Deposits .. .. 3,681,399 3,760,526 Inc. 79,127
Liquid assets .. .. 1,216,754 1,409,785 Inc. 193,031
Advances .. .. 3,914,499 3,762,226 Dec. 152,273
Premises, etc. .. .. 70,609 79,807 Inc. 9,198
The public treats the bank w'ell in the matter of deposits ;
for every £1 of shareholders’ funds in the business there
is £6 6s. of the public’s. This helps in the earnings, which
for the past year were at the rate of £lO os. 4d. per cent,
on capital and reserves combined, and that ranks
w'ith the best results shown by Australasian banks.
The unusually good result may be to some extent due
to large internal reserves ; apart from that, however, a
high percentage return is usually accompanied by some-
thing considerable in the way of risk. All debts to the
public amount to £4,486,206 ; against that are £1,409,785
of liquid assets, in addition to bills receivable in London
and remittances in transit (£402,383). Thus the bank
holds 3l£ percent, of the public’s money in liquid form
—a reasonable and (under ordinary conditions) perfectly
safe proportion.
* » * *
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. (N.S.W.):
Bonus Added Capital
to ' to and
Net Policy- Re- Re-
Dec., Profits, holders. Dividends. serves, serves.
1898.. £11,714 £4384 16J p.c. = £4384 £2946 £72,109
June,
1899.. 4,321 2149 16£ ~ „ 2149 23 72,132.
1900.. 11,932 4578 17£- „ „ 4578 2776 74,908
1901.. 12,430 4818 16 ~ ~ 4818 2794 77,702
1902.. 13,229 5543 18$ „ „ 5543 2143 79,845
1903.. 12,805 5869 19| ~ ~ 5869 .1067 80,912
1904.. 16,498 6067 16 ~ ~ 6067 4364 85,276
1905.. 14,518 6247 16i- ~ ~ 6247 2024 87,300
1906.. 15,048 6536 14| ~ „ 6536 1976 89,276
1907.. 18,753 6707 Ilf ~ ~ 6707 5339 94,615
1908.. 15,620 7048 J 15§ „ „ 7048 J 1523 96,138
This co. decided during the year to go into the side-lines
of insurance—accident, employers’ liability, plate glass,
and so on: and a start was made in November last. It
cost something, of course, to organise the new business,
but the Mercantile Mutual is much too solid a concern to
put an “ Extension of Business ” paper item among its
assets. The result has been to considerably swell the
expenses and the expense rate. This co.’s expense rate
always has been high, while its loss rate has been low,
both features being the result of close supervision and keen
selection of risks. The new class of business which the co.
has undertaken generally shows a high expense rate and
a low loss rate (though as to the latter there have been
exceptions); so probably the extension of business won’t
greatly affect the co.’s percentage figures. Anyway, the
expense rate should not get any higher ; forsome'at least
of the new business won’t have to be canvassed for —the
side-lines will go with the fire insurance almost as a
matter of course. So long as a war of rates can be
avoided, the profits from this new business ought there-
fore to be substantial. The chief features in the last 10
years’ business are shown in this comparison :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1898.. £36,205 £10,005 £16,648 27"6 p.c. 46'0 p.c.
1900.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24'4 „ 49'7 „
1905.. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23'8 „ 53'3 „
1906.. 53,667 15,337 26,415 28'6 „ 49'2 „
1907.. 56,755 13,786 27,376 24'3 „ 48’2 „
1908.. 61,871 16,538 33,307 26’7 „ 53'8 „
In the first table, capital and reserves are lumped toge-
ther. Nominally the capital is £45,000; most of this,
how'ever, consists of capitalised reserves. In the past 10
years alone £18,500 has been thus transferred. The total
(£45,000) represents 6s. per share, leaving 14s. per share
to be either called up or paid up out of profits—
which of the two depends upon the sort of luck
the co. has in the future. Possibly the co.’s
risks may be rather larger than the average
because of the large amount of risks held in and
close to Sydney ; but, on the other hand, its capital
and reserves amount to no less than 155 per cent, of the
year’s net premiums, while the average of British offices
is no more than 136 per cent. For many years the co.’s
practice has been to pay an interim dividend of 3d. per
share ; then, at the end of the year, the co. divides 20
per cent, of the fire premiums equally between policy-
holders aifTl shareholders, deducting the 3d. from the
latter’s half. If that policy is continued, and the new
business pans out all right, there will be a profit which
won’t be divided at all; and the chances are that that
will be applied from time to time to paying up more of
the capital. The assets are chiefly city property and
mortgages (£64,239), and deposits and, debentures
(£43,102); on these combined the interest earnings show
a return of £3 7s. Od. per cent. It is exceedingly small.
Possibly the co. doesn’t charge itself rent, in spite of
its high expense rate. If that isn’t the explanation, then
there seems to be over-valuation somewhere.
The Victoria Insurance Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
1898 .. £23,336 Nil. ) £36 838
Assets written down. ) ’
Profits.
1899 .. £14,597 9 per cent. = £4,494 £10,103 46,941
1900 .. 19,046 22£ „ „ „ 11,234 7,812 54,753
1901 .. 17,374 27 „ „ „ 13,481 3,893 58,646
1902 .. 23,923 27 ~ „ „ 13,481 10,442 69,088
1903 .. 28,195 36 „ ~ ~ 17,975 10,220 79,308
1904 .. 28,068 36 „ ~ „ 17,975 10,093 89,401
1905 .. 27,571 36 „ ~ „ 17,975 9,596 98,997
1906 .. 28,330 36 „ ~ ~ 17,975 10,355 109,352
1907 .. 22,762 36 „ „ „ 17,975 4,787 114,139
1908 .. 14,723 36 „ „ „ 17,975 110,887
The foregoing table opens with a reminder of the thing
that is liable to happen to the fire insurance co. On that
occasion the blaze didn’t get out of one block in Flinders-
street, Melbourne ; nevertheless for a few hours many an
insurance man had an anxious time, and (especially if the
Melbourne water-supply isn’t much improved) the same
sort of luck can’t be relied upon in future. This co.’s
progress since then has not been very striking. In 10
years its net premiums have been increased by 27 per
cent.; in the same period the Queensland Insurance Co.
put on nearly 150 per cent.; the Mercantile Mutual
(Sydney) 70 per cent. ; and the South British 55
per cent. ; and 55 per cent, in the case of
the South British (Maoriland) has meant £118,634.
The Victoria always has been rather greedy for dividends ;
so it put up its payments too soon after its reserves had
almost disappeared during the ’nineties. Its position
has, however, been much strengthened during the past
few years, and it has now £176 of paid capital and re-
serves for every £lOO of net premiums received during
last year. The proportion of funds to net premiums is
the handiest basis to adopt in inquiring into the provi-
sion which a fire insurance office makes to meet its risks ;
and this office’s 176 per cent, is considerably above the
English average. There are also a very solid lot of share-
holders to tap in case the uncalled capital should be
wanted—especially the “Money” Millers and W. Knox.
Probably that is one reason for the comparatively little
increase in figures ; for weight isn’t the same as agility,
and it takes agility nowadays to capture the average
fire-insurance premium. Recent progress is further com-
pared hereunder: —
Net Ex- Expense Loss
Premiums, penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £82,217 £19,224 £46,406 23'4p.C. 56.4 p.c.
1905.. 82,276 22,544 36,710 27'4 ~ 44'6 „
1906.. 83,535 23,589 36,782 28-2 „ 44.0,,
1907.. 87,611 22,730 47,391 25'9 „ 54'1 „
1908.. 91,304 23,295 58,425 25"5 „ 64’0 „
The assets include £65,586 of fixed deposits ; and the
maintenance of a large amount in some liquid form is a
wise thing for a fire-insurance office to do. Another
£46,333 is in real estate. No doubt chiefly as the result
of these two items the average earnings of the invest-
ments are small; on the mean for the year they work out
at an almost exact 3J per cent.
•* » * *
The Southland Building and Investment
Society and Bank of Deposit (Invercargill, M.L.)
Net To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1898 ..£2839 5 per cent. = £2560 £279 £706
1899 .. 1687 4-J „ „ „ 2357 36
1900 .. 2445 4 „ „ „ 2326 119 155
1901 .. 2556 4 „ „ „ 2244 312 467
1902 .. 2680 41 „ „ „ 2475 205 672
1903 .. 2649 41 ~ „ „ 2429 220 892
1904 .. 2811 5“ „ „ „ 2637 174 1066
1905 .. 2913 5 ~ ~ ~ 2867 46 1112
1906 .. 3483 5 „ „ „ 3177 306 1418
1907 .. 4547 6 „ ~ „ 4277 270 1688
1908 .. 4866 6 „ ~ „ 4829 37 1725
This energetic society apparently suffers from the same
idea with regard to reserves that a few co-operative trading
concerns have. One rule provides that “ the amount stand-
ing to the credit of the’[reserve] fund shall not exceed 1
per cent, on the amount lent on mortgages.” The idea
seems to be that, as shares are constantly maturing,
retiring shareholders would naturally object to leave
behind them a large reserve from profits to which they
had contributed, but of which they could not get a bite.
That is all very well; but the first consideration is safety.
The society is a permanent concern ; it is to live in the
future as well as the present ; and it is one of the obliga-
tions of the present shareholders to assure a future for
the society. The writer comes into town in the morning
in a very full train. The Department must make a fine
profit on that train : if the Department ran it at cost, the
fares could be reduced 33 per cent. But there are later
trains on the same line that don’t pay as well. Never-
theless, the writer doesn’t feel a bit aggrieved that he has
to pay the same fare as those who ride in the later train.
The service has to be continued, and it is a fair thing to
provide for the continuance. No doubt in a case of this
Southland sort the society’s risk is reduced by the fact
that fortnightly (or some such) payments are made in re-
duction of the advances. Yet there must always
be some new advances; and while that is so
there must always be risks for which 1 per
cent, is a very small cover indeed. In the table
at the top of this .the profits are shown net. Twelve
months ago, when these accounts were first dissected,
certain small amounts were shown as written off. For
the most part, however, if not altogether, they appear to
be amounts transferred from the reserve fund to profit
and loss, in order to reduce the fund in accordance with
the previously-mentioned and questionable rule. To
show them again as profit, previous to writing them off,
would therefore be equivalent to treating them as profit
twice over. To some extent the additions to this reserve
fund are not strictly trading profits at all: they are
partly derived from forfeited dividends on the withdrawal
of shares before maturity. The total for last j'ear through
this item was £323. Other features of the accounts are
shown hereunder :
Properties
Capital. Debentures. Advances, in hand.
1898 .. £54,169 £14,865 £62,131 £1635
1900 . 60,770 21,092 74,889 456
1905 . 60,920 49,722 112,575
1906 .. 67,169 61,960 126,244 -
1907 .. 76,291 69,820 145,162
1908 .. 86,014 66,858 155,314
The fact that the society has had no foreclosures for some
years is satisfactory ; but Maoriland can’t expect to be
always on the up-grade, so far as property values are con-
cerned. The debentures are in part payable on demand ;
but how much of the debt is of that character is not dis-
closed. So far as the ultimate payment of liabilities is
concerned, there is scarcely room for doubt; to endanger
debentures the securities would have to slump more than
Us. in the £. But if much money is payable on demand,
the cash position ought to be stronger ; the bank balance
amounts to an insignificant £lll.
•» * * *
The Commercial Building and Investment
Co. (Sydney).
Loss on
Loss on Property Total
June, Business. Sales. Loss. Deficit.
1899 . £1485 £l5OB £2993 £8,360
1900 .. 933 933 9,293
1901 .. 186 186 9,479
1902 .. 45 45 9,524
Profit. Profit.
1903 .. £7OB £7OB 8,816
1904 .. 286 286 8,530
Loss. Loss.
1905 .. £396 £8165 £8561 17,091
Profit. Profit.
1906 .. £758 £758 16,333
1907 .. 327 327 16,006
1908 .. 819 819 15,187
That is a nominal deficit, of course. As the paid capital
is £160,648, and actual losses have been more numerous
than profits during the past 12 years, it is fairly clear
that a good deal more than £15,187 of the capital has
dropped through an orifice somewhere. In fact, in 1902,
when Richardson and Wrench valued the assets, the
valuation showed only enough to return about £46,000,
which would mean a real deficit of about £114,000 on the
present capital. The co. began business in the early
’eighties, and piled up properties rapidly during the boom
years that followed. Unfortunately, it borrowed heavily
to do it, and that was where the trouble came in ; for the
co. and not the mortgagee had to stand the racket of the
slump. When the slump arrived a long period of call-
paving followed. By 1898, as the result of calls of £4 per
share, 1621 shares (out of 20,000 of £lO each) had been
forfeited. The number of the dead and gone has steadily
been increased to 4393. In all apparently 30s. has been
called up in the last 10 years, and only £1 is now un-
called. The realisation of the properties has been pain-
fully slow. Take a comparison :
1898. 1907. 1908.
Capital paid .. £135,057 £160,648 £160,648
Liabilities .. 160,319 126,654 125,471
Properties .. 286,505 269,533 269,533
Other assets .. 3,503 1,763 1,399
Thus in 10 years apparently £16,972 (book value) of pro-
perty has been sold ; and most of that was in one line—
a Spring-street (Sydney) property. The one thing that
can be said in the co.’s favor : ,is that the manage-
ment expenses are very moderate, and have been
so for many years. Though, according to the
valuation, the assets were worth £46,000 in excess
of the liabilities in 1902, the £46,000 will be worth
a good deal less than £46,000 if it is only payable 25 years
hence. As a matter of fact, £46,000, payable 25 years
hence, discounted at 4 per cent, per annum, is only worth
£17,250. The co. may be nursing the estates in the hope
that old boom values will some day return ; on the other
hand, depreciation of buildings must be considerable,
and £17,250 in the hand is worth £46,000 in the dim and
distant bush, anyhow. But perhaps the £46,000 only
exists theoretically, so to speak.
* * * *
The Australian Newspaper Co. (Sydney),
whose hope is in the Star on week-days, and in the Sun
on the Day when it’s wicked in Sydney to buy a bag of
bananas: —
Expenses
Gross (including Nomi-
Earn- Depre- Net nal Re-
June, ings. ciation). Profit. Dividends, serves.
1900.. £26,611 £24,648 £1963 5 p.c.= £2OOO £ll3
1901.. 25,921 23,915 2006 5 „ „ 2000 119
Loss. Deficit.
1902 21,964 23,383 1419 Nil 1300
1903 . 21,592 22,975 1383 Nil 2683
1904.. 21,381 24,053 2672 Nil 5355
1905.. 23,370 23,933 563 Nil 5918
Profit.
1906.. 24,405 24,322 83 Nil 5835
Reserves
Assets written up, £5918 .. .. 83
1907.. 28,372 26,956 1416 Nil 1499
12,500 pref. shares issued.
Div. on Pref. Written Re-
Profit. Shares. Off. serves.
1908.. £330 5 per cent. = £175 £1654
Things have been turned pretty well upside-down at the
Star office ; not only has there been a new manager, and
a new editor, and to some extent a new Board, but there
has also been a large change in the look of the share
register—partly through the arrival of ex-Mayor Allen
Taylor on the scene ; his partner, R. M. M‘C. Anderson, is
now acting-chairman of directors. No doubt as the re-
sult of all this the form of the published accounts has
been completely changed ; the object nowadays appears
to be to tell as little as possible. About 12 months ago it
was decided to issue some preference shares : 15,000 were
authorised, and 12,500 have been issued—the other 2500
have no doubt been reserved for allotment later on
to the people who have most to yj.o with making
the Star twinkle and the Sun shine. These
preference shares carry 5 per cent, cumulative, and
after ordinaries have got 5 per cent, the two lots rank
alike for anything beyond that. The new capital
has been put into machinery, mostly, no doubt, to replace
plant that had become worn-out or obsolete, and which
should have been written off—which, in other words,
should have been replaced out of profits. Seeing, how-
ever, that there were usually no profits to apply to that
purpose, the strict thing to do was to write the assets
down by writing the shares down from 20s. to 12s. or 155.,
or whatever was necessary in order to fill up the hole in
the accounts. Instead, however, the accumulated trading
deficit was actually transferred to goodwill, on the ground
that the Sun was an additional asset. The present posi-
tion is that, of the £48,820 of paid c pital, £24,762
is represented by paper (goodwill), and £23,983 (less the
amount now written off) is represented by plant, lease-
hold and stock, and of this plant the directors say that
it is “rapidly becoming obsolete.” The substantial
assets, exclusive of those provided by the new capital,
apparently, therefore, don’t amount to very much. Still
there is some life these days in what not long ago looked
like dry bones, though so far as dividend prospects are
concerned it is obvious that a great deal of deferred
writing down ought now to be done.
* * * *
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Melbourne):
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £1365 3J p.c. = £BOO £565 £4134
June, 1903.. 1188 3£ „ ~ 800 388 4522
Dec., 1903.. 1254 3£ „ ~ 800 454 4976
June, 1904.. 1190 Nil 1190 6166
Dec., 1904.. 151 Nil £4497 1820
June, 1905.. 902 Nil 902 2722
Dec., 1905.. 823 Nil 823 3545
June, 1906.. 842 Nil 1387 3000
Dec., 1906.. 972 Nil 972 3972
June, 1907.. 874 Nil 874 4846
Dec., 1907.. 1200 2Jp.C.= 600 600 5446
June, 1908.. 1330 2| „ „ 600 730 6176
During last year this co.’s theatre was handed over to
Meynell and Gunn on a five-years’ lease. In consequence
of that bargain profits have looked up ; but they wouldn’t
have looked up so much if anything had been written off
to cover depreciation. The building is on leased land,
and the ground rent runs to £lBOO a year, which is a
heavy handicap in dull times. Yet, though the place is
held on a ground lease, ■ nothing has been written off
even that item since the middle of 1906. The recent
profits are therefore over-stated ; though there maybe
a partial set-off to this in some improvements made by
the lessees of the premises. The undivided profit is
being used to reduce the overdraft, which has been
boiled down to £4Oll. This debt was incurred in recon-
structing the theatre three or four years ago^
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
Deficit
(Goodwill
In Reduc- not
tion of reckoned
Profits. Dividends. Deficit, an Asset).
Dec., 1902.. £2993 sp.c. = £l5OO £1493 £43,414
June, 1903.. 1746 5 ~ ~ 1500 246 43,168
Dec., 1903.. 2055 5 „ „ 1500 555 42,613
June, 1904.. 1611 5 ~ ~ 1500 111 42,502
Dec., 1904.. 1622 5 ~ ~ 1500 122 42,380
June, 1905.. 1661 5 ~ ~ 1500 161 42,219
Dec., 1905.. 1730 5 ~ „ 1500 230 41,989
June, 1906.. 1830 5 „ „ 1500 330 41,659
Dec., 1906.. 2704 5 ~ „ 1500 1204 40,455
June, 1907.. 1527 5 „ „ 1500 27 40,428
Dec., 1907.. 3112 5 ~ „ 1500 1612 38,816
June, 1908.. 2487 5 „ „ 1500 987 37,829
Away back in the regions of antiquity, two men left the
A.J.S. Bank, and presently started in the pursuit of the
fleet and furtive commission. They caught it so often
that later the goodwill in their business of chasing com-
missions was sold to a co. for £57,500. It seems a
tremendous lot to pay for the right to chase anything ;
but that was in 1889, when commissions were very fat,
and were alleged to prefer being caught by the two
before-mentioned people, Richardson and Wrench.
Almost at once, however, things changed ; and, for a few
years, the commissions, when-caught, were little more than
skin and bones ; yet, by strict attention to business, the
co. has been able to write the goodwill down to £39,500,
and accumulate besides a reserve of £1671, leaving
the deficit £37,829. That is to say, instead of having
£6o,ooo(the amountof thecapital)on one side and £57,500
of paper and £2500 of substantial assets on the other side,
it has now £60,000 on one side, and on the other side
£37,829 f paper and £22,171 of Treasury bills, cash and
other suhstantial assets. Meantime it has paid dividends,
mostly of 5 per cent., but getting down to 3 per cent, in
the few years before Federation—in the few years, that
is, before Sydney began to be ruined by Protection and
the conspiracies of its wicked neighbors. At present the
substantial assets represent 7s. 4d. per share ; so in pay-
ing 14s. for shares the investor still pays at the rate of
£20,000 for the goodwill of the business.
v « at ■
The Queensland Woollen Manufacturing
Co. (Ipswich, Q.): —
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves. serves.
1899.. £3883 Nil £3883 £14,095
1900.. 4168 Nil £12,000 6,263
1901.. 4151 2J p.c. =£1225 2926 9,189
1902.. 2140 Nil 5,000 6,329
Loss.
1903.. 1386 Nil 4,943
1904.. 2880 Nil 2,063
Deficit.
1905.. 2795 Nil 7,175 7,907
1906.. 446 Nil 5,733 14,086
Assets written down and losses written off, £5546 19,632
Reserves.
£23,339 (one-half the capital) written off, leaving 3,707
Loss.
1907.. 411 Nil 3,296
1908.. 514 Nil 2,782
But, though the accounts are not yet cheerful, there is
more hope in the directors’ report. One big trouble is
that the debt is very heavy. While things were bad in
(Queensland, the co. could make no progress ; then, when
things took a turn there, the cutting-down of the old
Queensland State tariff robbed the co. of any advantage
it might have got. Meantime the debt wasn’t getting
any smaller, and while N. S. Wales continued to send
men to the House to barrack for foreign instead of Aus-
tralian factories, and while a good deal of Queensland
helped them to barrack, the security wasn’t getting any
better. In 1905, therefore, the Q. N. Bank got tired, and
said things had gone far enough ; so various branches,
opened in order to push the co.’s wares, had to be closed
and stock realised. This resulted in the co. having to
at last face a heavy deficit, which it did by
writing off half the capital. From £46,678 it thus came
down to £23,339. The heavy annual loss was, however,
arrested ; and now, though the debt still amounts to
£23,370, and though the interest is a burden (last year it
amounted, with exchange, to £1474), the Lyne tariff has
improved the trade. Sales last year amounted to £26,024
as against £21,313 in 1905. Also, with even the present
amount of Protection, the co. has been able to get
enough of an advance from the bank to bring the plant
more up to date ; and that improves the outlook. Capital
is, however, badly needed ; the co. ought to be put into a
position to get rid of the overdraft, which now just
exceeds the capital as written down. Perhaps it may be
able to manage that presently. Really even for last year
the position is that, lumping the capital provided by
shareholders (as written down) and that supplied by the
bank, the return was at the rate of very nearly 2 per
cent. : and that, though of course not anything like
enough, is better than the actual loss which the profit and
loss account shows, since the interest paid to the bank
had therein to be charged up on the expenditure side.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1903.. £4786 6 per cent. =£3402 £1384 £4,784
Dec., 1903.. 3408 6 ~ ~ 3402 6 4,790
June, 1904.. 3917 6 ~ „ 3402 515 5,305
Dec., 1904.. 3920 6 ~ „ 3402 518 5,823
June, 1905.. 4606 6 ~ ~ 3402 1204 7,027
Dec., 1905.. 3472 6 ~ ~ 3402 70 7,097
June, 1906.. 4266 6 ~ ~ 3402 864 7,961
Dec., 1906.. 3497 6 „ „ 3402 95 8,056
June, 1907.. 4734 6 „ ~ 3402 1332 9,388
Dec., 1907.. 3637 6 „ ~ 3402 235 9,623
June, 1908.. 4698 6 „ ~ 3402 1267 10,919
The co. prior to 1902 had a capital of £168,750. At Dec.,
1900, it also had a nominal reserve fund of £15,500. At
the same time, however, there was a paper goodwill asset
on the other side. The co. had then for some time been
paying only 3 percent. ; and it was felt that it was about
time to do some cleaning up. The reserve fund was,
therefore, wiped out in the next year (along with the
goodwill item), and the capital was reduced to £lOB,OOO
by writing off 9s. per share on the 135,000 issued shares,
thus bringing them down from 255. to 16s. paid. They
were still left with the old liability of ss. The matter
still stands like that. On account of that writing down
of capital the 6 per cent, dividend isn’t really as
good as it looks. One of the troubles of the co.,
from an interest-earning point of view, is that
it isn’t all brewery—isn’t even all brewery and pub. In-
cluded in the assets is the Cascade estate, which is very
picturesque as you look down upon it from the slopes of
Mt. Wellington ; but mere picturesqueness pays no divi-
dends. This estate is now being slowly disposed of ; but
the accounts of the co.’s land business are not separated
from those of the beer business. Various items have
moved recently as follows :
June, Dec., June,
1902. 1907. 1908.
Mortgages, debentures, etc. £103,037 £120,987 £123,320
Freehold, brewery, etc. .. 170,013 181,302 182,430
Stock and plant .. .. 37,955 34,482 39,904
Sundry debtors, etc., less
trade debts.. .. .. 9,486 26,497 23,605
Gross profit on goods .. 11,599 11,813 11,166
Rents 3,482 3,890 3,949
Management, discounts, etc. 7,698 9,096 7,519
Interest 2,970 2,898
Apparently other freeholds—probably hotels—are being
acquired rather faster than the Cascade estate is being
disposed of; anyway, there is a steady increase in the
property item. It does not look as though anything
were being written off these properties to cover depre-
ciation ; repairs are charged up to profit and loss, but
nothing beyond that. The debts are very heavy ; they
exceed the amount of capital and reserves. This means
that the shareholders’ funds have to safeguard assets
more than twice as great as the capital and reserves ; £1
of capital has to provide for the possible depreciation of
£2 of assets. Considering the size of the debt, and the
fact that apparently no depreciation is being written off,
the profits are small in comparison with the risks. That
may, however, be due to the fact that the Cascade estate
is unproductive. One could get a better view of things
if the estate accounts were kept separate.
* » * •
Vale of Clwydd Coal-mining Co. (N.S.W.):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902 .. £1794 10 p.c. =£lsoo £294 £1496
Dec., 1902 .. 1518 10 ~ „ 1500 18 1514
June, 1903 .. 1541 10 ~ „ 1500 41 1555
Dec., 1903 .. 1880 10 „ „ 1500 380 1935
June, 1904.. 1618 10 „ „ 1500 118 2053
Loss.
Dec., 1904 .. 157 5 „ „ 750 1146
Profits.
June, 1905 .. 1606 10 „ „ 1500 106 1252
Dec., 1905 .. 2269 10 „ „ 1500 769 2021
June, 1906.. 1720 10' „ „ 1500 220 2241
Dec., 1906 .. 2688 10 „ „ 1500 1188 3429
June, 1907 .. 1835 10 „ „ 1500 335 3764
Dec., 1907 .. 1454 10 „ „ 1500 3718
June, 1908 .. 4018 30 ~ ~ 4500 3236
Six months ago the reserves were as follows:—Formal
reserve fund, £2000; reserve for improvements, £l5OO ;
undivided profit, £2lB. Now the reserve fund has sprung
to £3OOO, but the other reserve has disappeared ; and
meantime £3OOO (10 per cent, of the capital) has been paid
to shareholders by way of a bonus. Whether this is the
result of the half-year’s trading proper, or whether it is
the result of adjustments, isn’t obvious; but it is most
likely merely the result of adjustments. The profit and
loss account has always charged “ renewals, depreciation
and improvements” along with general expenses ; pro-
bably it was found that the allowances had been so large
hitherto that they could be much reduced now. Any-
way, the lumped item covering all expenditure fell from
£l4 035 for the previous half-year to £10,404 for this last
half-year. At the end of 1904 the liquid assets exceeded
liabilities by £10,063; now, after paying the bonus,
the excess is £14,812, notwithstanding that plant and
machinery have been considerably increased meantime.
Of course, this additional £4749 is not strictly all undivided


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U K.| 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
F. H. LLOYD & GO. Ltd
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steiel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
Owners of leases containing bauxite and bismuth
are kindly asked to communicate with George D. Meudell,
Whitehall, Bank Place, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Insure yourself or friends against accident
by taking out a Fleet Week Policy in the South
British Insurance Company, Limited. Look at the
benefits./ ss. will secure a policy for £5OO Death
by Accident or £3 Weekly Compensation payable
for 26 weeks. JJhese policies will last for 14 days.
Ages 16 to 60, both sexes. No. 12 Bridge Street,
Sydney. G. H. Moore, Manager.*
In the calculation of working costa in concen-
trating- mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideratidn. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of-power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the' power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins* Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbbstos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per. bag. ffm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A double 12in. suction dredge plant has just
been supplied to the Tekka Tin Mining Company of
Perak, Federated Malay States, by the Austral Otis
Engineering Company of South Melbourne. The plant
consists of two boilers, two 12in. gravel pumps, gravel
pump engine, air pump, surface condenser, feed pumps,
service pump, steam exhaust and other piping and
connections ; also Oregon barge and housing. The engine
is a marine type vertical coupled compound 350h.p.
The gravel pumps are both fixed on the same shaft, and
can be driven independently of each other. The boilers
are return tube dry back type. The barge is 50ft. x 45ft.
x 6ft., which gives ample room and sufficient floating
capacity.*
The Finance Chronicle, London, writes re-
garding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, under date Ist August, 1907 In other words,
good management has had muph to do with the result,
and we are glad to note the fact at a time when the reins
have fallen into new hands.”*
Users of steam power will be interested to
know that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a depfit in . N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. 1 Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
* * * *
The mining and smelting cos. of Australia and
New Zealand have been quick to avail themselves of the
exceptional chance to secure the bargains offering through
the breaking up of the -Northern Territories Mining and
Smelting Co.’s immense plants, and a large staff of men
are now packing and shipping engines, boilers, batteries,
air compressors, etc., to the different States. There is
still unsold, one complete copper smelting plant, com-
prising water jacket furnace, Samuelson’s direct driven
26in. blower, complete Bisbee copper converter plant,
all new, Robey-Daw compound air compressors, rock
drills, stone breakers, high pressure boilers, locomotives,
traction en-in.es, etc. The landed cost of these plants
was about £150,000, and the purchasers want to clear it
out. Fully illustrated catalogues, post free, on applica-
tion to Cameron and Sutherland, Sydney, Melbourne,
Ballarat, and Bendigo.*
* * * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations, ffm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
* * » *
The liquidator’s note of sale, by public auction,
of the machinery plant and stock of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Proprietary, Ltd., Williamstown, has
been withdrawn, the whole of it having been sold
privately to the well-known firm of Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, ironfounder, etc., Melbourne, who has removed
everything to his engineering works, Footseray.
Machinery merchants, engineers, mining companies, and
others interested are invited to inspect this plant, which
is now offered for sale. at very low prices. Detailed
catalogues are being prepared and will be posted to any
address on application to Mephan Ferguson, head office
and engineering works, Footseray.*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
The section of the American Fleet which has
arrived in our waters has eight battleships which are
fitted with the . Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler.
Five of these ships are of the Connecticut class, including
the flagship itself. Engineers will be interested to note
that these five ships hold the record for economical
steaming from San Francisco. This is another strong-
argument, in favor of the adoption of the water-tube boilers
'.in the navy and the mercantile service, as not only do
they save fuel,, but they economise in space and very
materially in weight.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colwson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
9.* * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
*■* * *
CHARTERS TOWERS.—Milling speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
. * * * * .
Jeffrey Elevating and Conveying Machinery
has come to be recognised as among the finest examples
of modern labor-saving devices. These equipments
enormously reduce the cost of handling goods, as com-
pared with the old system of manual labor, and whether
installed in mill, mine, brewery, store, or factory, a
Jeffrey outfit cannot fail to be a profitable investment.
Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Svdneyt; and
128 William Street. Melbourne, have erected a large
number of these plants for various industriesin Australia,
and they are glad to supply, free of charge, plans and
specifications for outfits to meet any requirements.*
LOHMANN (SL COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents fox* ■.
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables.
Large Stocks always on Hand.
importers of Tramway. Mining, Industrial and Eleotrloal Machlnen^and_Materlalg_of_an_klada I _^,
profit; but it is a pretty substantial set-off to the natural
depreciation of the mine, which now stands in the books
at only £11,900.
* * * •*
The last of the Commonwealth fire and marine
insurance cos. to take action to limit its shareholders’
liability is the Derwent and Tamar, of Tasmania ; and at
a shareholders’special meeting the directors have now
been instructed to take the necessary steps with regard
to that co. also.
This shows the in-and-out running of the Broken
Hill South for the past few years :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Dec., 1903 ..£21,296 £lO,OOO £4,002 £51,345
June, 1904 .. 41,283 20,000 20,300 52,328
Dec., 1904 .. 51,119 20,000 6,937 76,510
June, 1905 .. 53,596 35,000 6,205 88,901
Dec., 1905 .. 71,149 35,000 19,081 105,969
.June, 1906 .. 67,535 60,000 7,488 106,016
Dec., 1906 .. 99,976 60,000 18,975 127,017
June, 1907 .. 103,381 80,000 9,492 140,906
Dec., 1907 .. 73,350 70,000 10,000 134,256
June, 1908 .. 15,497 20,000 491 129,262
In addition, there is an insurance fund of £7983. Of the
profit shown for the past half-year £lO,OOO was money
received from the Zinc Corporation for tailings. The co.
has lately made a modification of its agreement with that
corporation ; the tailings produced by the old mill, esti-
mated at 1,100,000 tons, have been sold at 3s. lOd. per ton
all round. With the £lO,OOO taken into profit and loss
last half-year, and £lO,OOO paid over since the half-year
ended, £45,000 has how been received ; and no more is
due until July, 1909. Under the old arrangement the co.
sold the corporation the right to the tailings output for
many years ahead ; but that part of the bargain is now
off.
The metal slump hit this co. in two ways. First
the European smelters, not being rushed with orders,
didn’t rush the co., and would only take concentrates
on terms which the co. wouldn’t look at. Thus on
top of the metal market slump came this grab on
the part of the European smelters, in whose hands the
South had placed itself. Between the two the directors
decided to ease off production. Administration and some
other expenses could not, however, be eased off to cor-
respond. Excluding the amount received for the tailings,
last half-year’s profit Was only at the rate of 12s. per ton
of the lead contained in the concentrates. The average
price of lead was £l3 14s. 10d., so the cost of production
was all the silver and £l3 2s. lOd. per ton of the lead. On
the same basis, in the previous half-year costs were all
the silver (which, however, was then worth a trifle more),
and £l2 Bs. Bd. per ton of the lead. Still, in calculating the
metal prices at which the South can work, some allowance
ought to be made for the tailings. If we value the half-
year’s output of tailings at 3s. lOd. per ton, it would add
£9OOO to the half-year’s profit of £5497 ; and that would
bring down the cost of producing lead to £l2 3s. 2d. per
• ton. The present price is £l3 11s. 3d.
Even crediting the co., then, with 3s. lOd. per
ton for its output of zinc-bearing tailings—and the zinc
industry is still in some doubt—and assuming that the
co. will get recent rates for its silver by-product, the
South cannot, on last half-year’s experience, produce lead
for less than £l2 3s. 2d. per ton ; and even then it would
be making no provision for depreciation. In the future,
however, costs may be reduced. In fact, during the past
month of the term costs were actually reduced to 16s. 7d.
per ton for mining, milling, etc. (including development
and filling), as against £1 Is. zd. for the whole term, or
£1 Is. sd. for the preceding term. On the half-year’s
output of 78,803 tons of ore, a reduction of 4s. 7d. per ton
in costs (the difference between £1 Is. 2d. and 16s. 7d.)
would' mean £lB,OOO added to the profits. That can
only be done, though, by neglecting - development; yet,
as during the recent spell of high prices a very great deal
of that work was done, the mine can afford to go slow
for a while. The profit (without zinc tailings) for last
half-year was £5947, or Is. 6d. per ton of ore. If the
work had been done throughout for 16s. 7d. per ton (the
last month’s average), it would have added 4s. 7d. per
ton to the profits—total 6s. Id. per ton. The new mill
can treat 150,000 tons a half-year comfortably, and 6s. Id.
on that output would be £45,625. Things therefore are not
as bad as the accounts look. There are “ifs” about all
this, of course—the £45,625 could only be made if the co.
could sell the concentrates from 150,000 tons of ore on
terms at least equal to.last half-year’s, and if the costs can
be kept as low as they were got down to in June. On the
other hand in this calculation the zinc-bearing tailings
Output has not been reckoned as worth anything.
* •* * *
The long tentacles of the creep which affects
the Sulphide Corporation’s Central mine have been
gradually taking a grip of Broken Hill Block 10, and the
greater part of the workings seem to be moving almost
imperceptibly southwards. Evidence of this fact is to be
seen in Harvey shaft, which the far-reaching earth move-
ment has pulled slightly out’ of plumb. When the
hauling-rope is dropped to the bottom of the shaft, it is
centred at the surface collar, but touches the skids on
the north-west side at the bottom. So far the workings
have not suffered material damage. That is because the
movement has been on such a large, slow, ponderous
scale. It is apparently the settling down of a huge
block of ground, involving Block 10, the Central, and
the South mines, and where it will ultimately find a
lodgment will probably be known about the time Broken
Hill is connected with Sydney by rail.
-*■ * * *
Operations have been resumed at the Pinnacles
mine, near Broken Hill, and a start will shortly be made
deepening the main shaft another 200 ft. Bewick,
Moreing and Co. are said to have an option. The shaft
is now down about 270 ft., but the workings are in a
neglected condition. A peculiarity about the Pinnacles
lode is that the zinc is mostly on the east side, a charac-
teristic also of other shows at the Pinnacles. The ore in
the mine is rich, and as the two Elmore units erected on
the mine to treat the ore failed to get good results, per-
haps it would be worth while to send a few tons into the
Zinc Corporation’s plant in Broken Hill for treatment.
Experience on large tonnages has now taught the Zinc
people a few wrinkles which were not common property
when the process was tried at the Pinnacles.
» * * •
Development work has had a check at several
Wyalong(N.S.W.) properties, including the Barrier and
Klondike, owing to exhaustion of funds ; and the warden
lias granted three months’ suspension of labor conditions
on the Barrier to enable the co. to reconstruct, so as to
raise the necessary money for sinking. In the case of the
Barrier there should be no difficulty in finding the ready,
as the property has proved itself a sure gold getter. The
new machinery and poppet legs are in readiness for sink-
ing from the 500 ft. on good mineral stone. The cost was
£2500.
* * * »
Great Southern Consols, Rutherglen (Vic.), is
suffering, from too much newspaper puff. Worked for 20
years, it shared with Southern No. 1 the distinction of
being about the costliest mine in the district. In all
62,0000 z. of gold have been won, and £44,000 cash was
subscribed ; in return the divs. have aggregated only
£lB,OOO. Gold has cost £4 12s. per ounce to win, and no
profit attaches to that sort of thing. The co. has had
narrow runs of gold, and a narrow gutter, out of which
the gold is supposed to have been swept. Lately it was
found that thelead had curvedaway back intothe lease, just
when it was thought to be making out of it. Clever boys
are passing the word round that the gutter is also wider
and gold contents higher. Can the leopard change his
spots? It isn’t the rule for leads that have been fairly
poverty-stricken to make into bonanzas at depth ; and
therefore the public may look more forcalls than for divs.
■* * * »
Eaglehawk Consolidated, Maldon, is one of the
few Bull-owned Victorian mines that ever paid dividends.
That it did so is looked on by many as somewhat of an
accident, because Maldon doesn’t readily part with any-
thing good. For the past three years the stone
milled has gone from bad to worse. First Bdwt.,
then 7dwt., now under sdwt. In May there
were only 4000 tons in reserve. By the end of
this month that stone will be a memory of the past. The
co. has gone back nearly £6OOO in a few months ; and J.
Bull has no alternative now but to make a call. But he
doesn’t like the idea, though he has done well out of the
mine. Directors talk of pottering about trying to pick-up
gold in some of the neglected ground, but the right policy
is to sink and open out. Anyway, the co. is over-capital-
ised on the merits of the mine, so the best thing to do
would be to reconstruct, write down capital, and put up
a decent sum for working.
The latest is that “Jimmy” M‘Crorery has
joined the Board of the Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.). Shares
have been dubious, and a man with a square jaw was
wanted. Hence the call for Janies, who has fought
bigger fights than a tussle with ounce dirt. What he has
to do is to convince chairman Dodds that the public won’t
bite if everything is to trickle through Ararat. A hustle
is heeded in the mine work, for the simple reason that it
is no use taking out wet dirt and piling up expenses. He
also should see to the report that the runs of gold are
narrow, and let city men share the knowledge he acquires.
There is, in fact, a lot for him to do.
» * * »
For a tangle, the speech of E. T. Holloway to
London shareholders in the Loddon Leads (Vic.) will take
some beating. Holloway flitted out from Lombard-street
to the mine to find that work was going on in the very
heart of the gold-bearing country. They were actually
“into the drive,” he says, or is reported to have said,
and expecting to get the trend of the lead. But the
absurd lead got thinner and thinner, so an expert
had to be called in. Naturally, the expert drove
the other way, and then! naturally, they picked
up the lead. What this little bit of advice cost,
Holloway doesn’t say: but he is good enough
to let the management down by saying that if it “had
known they were working for some hundreds of feet in
barren country, arid would ultimately meet With nothing,
of course they would not have done it.” Of course not;
but it would have been nice to hear old alluvial miners
like McCrorey, Rundle, or English ventilating their
views to a manager who shot his mark that way.
Doddering on, the London gentleman told of five fathoms
of wash treated through “ the batteries ” yielding up a
2oz. nugget; and this nugget had been sent all the Way
from Victoria to London to show that it was real and to
suggest that there might be more where it came from.
Holloway and hiS friends really ought to leave off talking
piffle. Let them pay a good alluvial man to overhaul
their show, and if possible save some of the £BOOO they
have not yet stoked out. If not, there is a danger that it
will be burnt up in the fire that consumeth.
• * • *
Tribntors at Koch’s Pioneer, Bendigo, having
fossicked out good stone in the old reef north at 1550 ft.,
now have to hand the block over to the co. Thus the
loz. stone now being got will go into the co.’s pot instead
of to reward the people who discovered and developed it.
Deeper down the co. is grafting to find out whether the
slide at 2550 ft. east will lead to anything. Work done to
the west hit stone without gold. The risk in connection
with gold picked up near a fault in Bendigo is that it
often peters out away from the break. This is the little
fact that the hard men of the field keep in mind whenever
the outside fools rush shares up on the strength of a few
colors got under such circumstances.
* * * *
Geologist Dunn recently reported on the reefs
at Clear Creek, near Yackandandah (Vic,), of which
several mentions have been made in Tiie Bulletin. He
inspected the Relay, Tin Tub, Struck Oil, Queen Eliza-
beth and Queen Bee. Most of these run from an inch to
2ft. wide of loz. stone. Of the district generally Dunn
says : “ The shoots are well worth working, and the
locality is well deserving of further prospecting.” Since
his report the Tin Tub put through 10 tons, which went
2Joz. to the ton. The Relay syndicate (a few local and
Alburymen)put through nine tons for slightly over lOOoz.,
which should give them a good Fleet week. Another
party is working a big low-grade formation which yields
about, sdwt. ; it might pay if a battery were closer. The
crushings from these reefs are all put through a small
three-head mill. Capital and machinery are badly
wanted.
* .. * * *
Good luck to the prospectors who have spent
years in scratching over the wonderful North, where the
white man dieth ! It does one good to hear of their
occasional success. A party which years ago opened up
the Perseverance, a tin show in the Irvinebank district,
and got good stuff, has again taken up the
property after its abandonment bj' the Irvinebank
Co. Ore has been exposed for 15ft. ; it is 20in. wide,
“ going strong,” and estimated at 40 per cent. The same
party has just discovered a copper outcrop about 40 miles
from Einasleigh—a big blow, carrying patches of rich ore.
It looks like a big thing, but has, of course, yet to be proved.
Still, again good luck to them ! Another discovery is be-
tween the Gilmore and Koorboora, where a series of tin
lodes has been unearthed: 7ft. of ore has been opened up
for 18ft. ; value, 20 per cent. The talk is that the mine will
rival the Gilmore. Already about 11 tons of 20 per cent,
ore have been broken out of very soft country, and pros-
pects are certainly Al. The mine is close to the Mount
Garnet railway, which is another advantage.
* * * #
The Etheridge (Q.) railway construction has
been hung up for over three weeks on account of labor
difficulties. When the Bill was before the House a motion
to fix the minimum wage at 9s. was defeated. The Act
simply provides that the ruling wage in the district for
similar work should be paid. This is the trouble—no
definition of what is “ similar work ” has been satisfactory.
;Meantiine the engineer in charge has paid the men Bs.
Hence a strike. The workers claim that the average
should be 9s. or 10s. The Minister is said to have prom-
ised during the reading of the Bill 1 that the minimum
should be 95.; but the engineer has other ideas. True,
the latter made an offer of 9s. conditionally upon a
guarantee of three months’ service, the men to allow Is.
per day to be held back for that period ; but the con-
dition was objected to. As usual, the Minister has told a
deputation that he thought the matter could be
arranged ; but he admitted that the Crown Law Office
had so far been unable to do the arranging.
The phenomenal North Queensland patch, the
Gilmore, has treated for the half-year 1557 tons for a yield
of 12 per cent, black tin, realising£lo,7s2. Thedividend
for the six months was £3543, equal to 9d. a share.
Total dividends to date, £20,850 —on a capital of £9OOO.
' Wages for the half-year were £2845 ; while crushing,
carting, and bagging ran to £2513. The co. has cash in
hand £895, besides 100 tons “firsts” and 90 tons
“seconds.” Dividends since June have been suspended,
the effort to pay 3d. (£1125- a month without tax) being
obviously more than the mines could stand at the present
price of the metal.
“P.” : Re Smith’s Creek (B. 23/7/’08). Facts
are these:—There is trouble between the Board
and the manager. Each side has to give three
months’notice. The manager has been breaking ore by
contract at so much per ton ; the alleged result is that
contractors have been doing very well, and the mill has
been well supplied—with practically barren stone as well
as ore. As there was a difference of opinion over this
method, the directors decided to shut down pending the
running out of the three months’ contract with the
manager.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, crushed
4285 tons for £10,262, which sounds better. News also
comes from the Towers that the Brilliant Deeps have
drilled into a footwall formation carrying mineral.
Otherwise Charters Towers has had a set-back. The stone
in Pfeiffer’s new underlie has split up, and the N. B.
Freehold is not looking so well. Speculators are looking
forward to an announcement about No. 8, which is going
in right under the rich shoot proved in No. 7. East
Mexicans are also inclined to droop ; there are too many
shares in that case. The best stone exists in shoots,
which are not always of great length ; so the mere fact
that a reef can be followed on the underlie for 2000 ft. is
nothing much to stake money on. Pfeiffer’s is a case in
point; a set-back happened before shareholders had
ceased to congratulate themselves.
Chillagoe (Q.) furnaced 6693 tons of lead and
copper ore during July, and the big output is shown in a
buoyant railway revenue on the co.’s line. Four months’
railway revenue up to the end of July was £38,737. The
completion of the Etheridge line will not, under ordinary
conditions, add much to these figures; for the traffic
nearer Chillagoe has lately been quite exceptional. A
curious idea has grown up in North Queensland that for
the improved revenue of the railway from Cairns to
Mareeba the State should be grateful to the Chillagoe Co.
The fact is the development of North Queensland de-
pended on a railway over the precipitous coast range.
The State, at enormous expense, put the railway over the
range, and then with almost incredible foolishness gave
concessions to Private Enterprise to continue the trunk
line at a cost per mile of about one-tenth of what the
Government section ran into. Having climbed the tree,
the State, in short, dropped the fruit into someone else’s
bucket. And now Private Enterprise says that the man
up the tree should be grateful.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) is rejoicing over specimen stone
at 2]s4ft. in the East Oriental. One lump, to be sent to;
the Cold Country, is estimated to contain about £2OO
worth of gold. If the Britisher remembers the dividends
paid by the Scottish Gympie, and plunges, he will fall in ;
for the East Oriental, with its erratic bunches of speci-
mens, is a very different show from the Scottish, which
had a large tonnage of low-grade stone.
Great Northern, Gympie, judging by the week-
end amalgam return of oOoz., is likely to come again into
notice. Better stone (about 9in. thick) is being obtained
in the northern drive, every firing showing some metal.
The reef followed in the rise above No. 2 level has also
increased in size and value ; so things are more hopeful.
The disappointment of this new show has been that the
Empire reef and others have proved so small. *
On June 1 North White Feather (W.A.) had
£9150 in cash and on loans against securities. Attention
is drawn in the annual report to the discovery of a new
reef parallel to and west of the main reef. This reef was
first met with at a considerable depth in January of this
year, and is billed in the report as a “ most important
development,” for if the body lives to the higher levels,
the co. will “possess a practically new mine.” But at
Kanowna, where something is known about the shoots in
this mine, they don’t go nap on ore bodies extending any
further than one can see them.
* * * ■*
Melbourne and Coolgardie Ore Channel Co.
was brought to its bearings in the Coolgardie warden’s
court the other day. Some months ago this concern,
which is some sort of relation to the Tindal’s Co., took up
several leases on the Tindal’s line. No work was done on
the property, and as apparently nobody came forward with
the necessary financial support, exemption was applied
for. Warden Finnertv, however, sniffed at the applica-
tion, and, after remarking that the co. was shilly-shally-
ing, or words to that effect, he fixed the day of judgment
a week later.
When the last English mail left, Tindal’s Gold
Mines Development Co. (W.A.) was trying to get rid of
shares in Russia at £1 apiece. Greece, France and
Turkey had been previously “worked,” but with what
result is not known. Towards the end of 1906 the nominal
capital of this co. was increased to £450,000, in 450,000
shares of £1 each, and soon after this it gave great wads
of shares away for various properties. Glowing accounts
of what had been taken out of the new possessions then
appeared in the press, and for a time the mine reports
had a lot to say about the great value of the ore opened
up. Then the name of the co. suddenly vanished from
the share quotation lists, and it has kept like that ever
since. The Bulletin isn’t sure whether it hates anybody
quite bad enough to sell them these shares if it had any.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Government proposes to lend
the Tasmanian Smelting Co. £20,000 at 4 percent, for
10 years, besides granting a rebate on the railway equal
to £3500 a year for two years. This rebate is to be paid
back out of profits after the co. has provided 5 per cent,
for itself by way of interest, and something fora sink-
ing fund ; so the Government’s chances of getting the re-
bate back are not exactly brilliant. Though there are
poor prospects ahead of any custom smelting works which
depend upon a single field (unless it be a very big field),
it would probably be far better business in this case to
buy the wo ks straight out, and put them under State
control. It wouldn't cost very much more, and the works
would then be run in the interests of the field, anyway.
* * * *
In the last review of the Queensland Meat
Export Co.’s accounts (B. 26/3/’08) attention was drawn
to the fact that the Singapore Cold Storage Co.’s shares,
held by the Q.M.E. Co., still stood in the balance-sheet at
the same figure as in 1904—evidently at par (£1), as the
co.. was floated in 1903. Fraser and Co.’s Singapore share-
lift now show these shares worth 6'25 dollars (silver)—
sav, 12s. 6d. The co. has apparently failed to get any
large amount of local support, and, apparently from in-
sufficient capital, has not gone into what might very
likely be the profitable business of manufacturing ice for
sale in Singapore.
• * * *
Mt. Molloy (Q.), going slow on copper for
a while, is developing the timber industry, and the
railway is nearly up to the terminus. Very soon the line
will therefore be carrying quantities of flitched logs and
sawn timber to market. The local sawing and Hitching
was kicked against, but Kidston’s Government insisted on
.it. Sending away timber in the rough when every
facility for sawing and dressing it existed on the spot has
been one of the things that, have kept the North back.
The development of the timber industry on Rifle Creek
and the slopes of the coast range has already led to the
prospecting of practically unknown land, brimful of possi-
bilities. Standing on top of this coast range there is a
view that would tempt the Devil himself to reform.
Fortunately no co. can smelt that view or put it through
a mill.
JL * * *


Under the Stress and strain of modern life all
beauty that is not closely guarded and cherished must,
perish soon. Valaze is the mightiest guard against the
ills that mar beauty. It acts as a tonic, a preserver, and
a stimulant, evicting all the impurities from the pores,
and making the skin clear and healthy, as well as
beautiful. 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., 6d. post. Use also-the
Valaze Herbal Soap, which is a perfect skin cleanser, and
is pure and wholesome. 2s. 2d. posted. “ Beauty in the
Making,” is the title of an interesting and instructive
book, by Mile. Rubinstein, on the subject of the com-
plexion and skin, their defects and the remedies of them.
Write and send 3d. for postage, or call on Mile. Rubinstein
for the booklet. Mile. Helena Rubinstein and Co., Valaze
Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne ; or 9 Brandon Street, Wellington.* [1
c° M V
£
3s>
&
&
a-
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
•‘Pull out your watch/'’
and take the time so soon
as you pour the boiling water
on your tea —allow the tea
five, or six minutes at most
to draw—then pour it out-
timing your tea like this is
a little troublesome, but it will
repay you, and it’s such a pity
to spoil good tea in the
making, or, at least, not get it
at its very best.
Our No. 2 Grade Robur
is splendid tea for general
family use—it is very strong,
has a nice flavor, and it goes
further than any other tea
we have ever seen.
99
“The Connoisseur’s Friend.**
“BLACK and WHITE.
am in— ——■■■pßaMpßcamaW^^pg**— maa ~
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Is the acme of perfection, and the Kig'H-class standard
stimulant of the British Empire.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 18, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
One of your Akenehi’s earliest out-of-doors
recollections was of an old gardener who used to
acknowledge the Almighty’s goodness in giving
rain, or sunshine, or successful growth to “them
rose cuttings ” with the words “ Thanksbittome-
god.” He said it with unction, as I now say
“ thanksbittomegod ” Kubelik is gone. One of the
Sydney melody critics has honestly and fairly
remarked that the “ managerial scheme that
obliges our audiences to hear an artist of Kubelik’s
calibre five or six times within a few weeks
is hardly fair to them.” Paderewski, after a
two years’ absence from London, gave one concert
there, and then hurried his Hair and his Steinway
away from the city of many millons. Few persons
recognised that Kubelik was any better than, say,
Mr. Bertie Kelly when he fiddles in the Amateur
Orchestral. Moneyed and society-ed Sydney
rushed to hear him (Kubelik, not Kelly) once—
when It was sure Lady Northcote’s ears would be
amongst those present. After that there were
fair audiences, and in the lowest-tariff seats a
crowd. The truly musical person, with the ex-
ception of Her Federal Ex., can’t afford an um-
brella and goloshes, but he and she contrive to
hear Kubelik and Hambourg.
Excellency Lady Northcote, attended by Early
Christian Martyr Fyers and Pagan-Survival
Stephens, sat behind the presentation posy and
the clock in the western gallery of the Town
Hall at Kubelik’s adieu. Mrs. Kubelik, all in
cream, with white ostrich feathering, was ’squired
by Mr. Southwell. When “Southey” arrives in
Heaven he deserves to get St. Cecilia for a bride
as a reward for the sufferings he endures here in
the cause of concerts. K. gave S. an opal pin. It
is hereby notified that it is opal, and that it was
presented on a Friday, and that if the date wasn’t
the thirteenth it was the day after. I’m not really
superstitious myself, but a friend who is told me
of another friend who lost £l3OO on a Friday and
never smiled worth a cent afterwards.
Her Ex. rose as soon as Kubelik began to play
Paganini’s Variations on “God Save,” and re-
mained standing as long as the frilled and twisted
and tortured burlesque on the Irrational Anthem
lasted. The few persons in Her gallery also rose
and remained on their plantigrades, but the other
galleryites dropped back limply into their seats,
saying they didn’t recognise any “ God Save” in
the piece, and wondering if Lady Northcote was
taking standing exercise for fun. A few shame-
faced melo-maniacs neither stood erect nor sat, but
compromised and tottered and looked like staggery
notes of interrogation.
Kubelik, as is usual with foreign artists who come
here—and leave here—took a lot of Australian
birds away with him; forty-five live winged
things to be accurate, and several stuffed ones.
He’ll probably land two of the former alive —if
he’s lucky.
Louise Mack, who was the Gouli-Gouli of
this paper before your Akenehi took the job,
has staggered that section of humanity which
reads the London Daily Mail, by a column-
long article on “ Country House Life in
Australia.” The production is quaint enough
for framing. It begins with a meeting in
Regent-street, London, between callow “Mrs.
Tom Smythe, from Melbourne,” and the
Society-wise Louise. Mrs. Tom mentions she
has just returned from a visit to Lady Blank,
where she (Mrs. Tom) “stayed a month!!”
When the policeman has picked Louise up and
dusted her clothes and dispersed the crowd and
returned the chemist round the corner his sal
volatile bottle, etc., the lady jots down a few
recollections for Daily MAiL-ing purposes re
social conventions in the country that was re-
sponsible for dreadful Mrs. Tom. A few here-
with :
In Australia a month’s visit to a country house would
be nothing. Two months—three months—six months —
as long as you like would not be considered too long.
Nobody thinks of dates. You are asked to stay as long
as you like. Or else you ask yourself to stay as long as
you like. Or even—to face all the contingencies—you
neither ask nor are asked ; you simply go. And, having
arrived, you remain. Everything else may give out. If
you stay long enough there is sure to be a time when
there are no servants, no milk, no vegetables, no meat
but mutton, or even no water, but the thoughts of guests
going away will never enter the minds of the host and
hostess.
When people prove unamiable in an Australian country
house there is one explanation—dyspepsia, which is
easily accounted for by the climate, the large amount of
meat eaten, and the abnormal quantities of tea consumed.
Breakfast, when a good many steaks and chops are
eaten, is at half-past eight, but you may be as late as you
like. It is even possible that you will come down so iate
that the servants are busy with other things, and you will
go out to the kitchen and cook yourself a chop, or bacon
and eggs, and make fresh tea. No one will think any-
thing of it. Nothing is locked up, and you may take what
you like without asking. It may be that you will have
to help to wash up afterwards. Yes ! Even in the most
luxurious country houses this may happen.
Servants are always an uncertain quantity in Australia,
and every Australian girl and woman knows that she may
be called upon to “do things ” even when she goes to
stay with friends.
But nobody minds. Nobody minds anything, in fact.
The Premier’s wife is ironing her blouses in the wash-
house. Lord M., the young Englishman, is cleaning his
boots in the scullery. Four ladies and six men are wash-
ing up in the kitchen. The Premier is feeding the fowls.
The daughter of the house is rolling out pastry. Half-a-
dozen people are clearing away the breakfast table and
malting beds. The three maids have all gone of! without
notice ! The hostess is driving round in a buggy trying
to find others. She will have hard work to find them.
And then comes this most aged Irish-American
chestnut: —
Hence the story of Lady F., a Chief Justice’s wife. One
night the Chief and she were giving a dinner. Among
the guests there was a young Englishman. Suddenly
there was a lull in the conversation.
“ Awful pause ! ” said the boy Englishman lightly to his
hostess.
Her hands were on the table at that moment.
“So would you have if you’d done your own washing
and ironing,” was her strange reply.
And all day long and all night the front door will stand
wide open, and the strange folk who come drifting in are
never turned away empty-handed.
The fact is, “Mrs. Tom,” who stayed a month
with Lady Blank, is just about as much of a myth
as Louise’s boot-cleaning Englishman and horny-
handed Chief Justice’s spouse. The Australian
woman who stays with the “Lady Blank’s” of the
Cold Land, when she visits those parts knows
her social conventions accurately. If the well-to-
do entertainer up country has a fault it lies in his
or her slavish imitation of the methods that obtain
in England. Thus at Burradoo, which Louise
Mack drags into her screed, you will find the
stolid, silent butler in full blast in most of
the big houses, likewise valets and capable
parlor-maids who entered the family in youth
and have no intention of leaving it, un-
less via the marriage-gate. Picture “strange
folk drifting in ” to stay at a Pat
Osborne station in N.S.W., or at an Ebo
Brown or Chirnside edifice in Victoria. The
outraged retainers would do such a one a serious
mischief, in all likelihood, ere ever he was safely
re-housed in his asylum.
There isn’t any need for our hordes of back-
block visitors to drink anything out of a distillery
in order to see stars. Shops and streets are starred
and striped in honor of the ships that won’t pass
in the night. One of our men’s clothing shops has
a window full of ties of the star-spangled pattern.
Sargents, the caterers, are dressing 30 of their
girls in a like rig, so that they may strike the
Fleeters as a pleasing and home-like spectacle as
they hand round the bun.
Mrs. Hugh Dixson, the tobacco millionairess, is
involved in the starry-barry whirl by reason of a
daughter of hers having married Commander
Wells, an American naval circumstance. He is
not with the Fleet, but a lot of his friends are, and
the Dixson home, “Abergeldie,” is just the place
to entertain them. An At Home there is timed to
explode in Fleet week. The American colony in
Sydney is not large, nor is it important, _ but it
will fill with hospitality as many empty officers as
itcancatch. Mr. Frank Coffee, whosee very separate
hair is on end and making a patriotic declaration of
independence on its own, has the dynamite cock-
tail ready to be handed round. Federal Govern-
ment House has built a marquee against its bosom
for the ball on the night of the 24th. Its fixed
ball-and-reception room space is as limited as the
intelligence of the average architect.
The five American ladies of war, who are here
awaiting their respective husbands, don’t look up
to the smart standard of the smart American
woman who swoops upon these shores and makes
us gasp “Oh my !” They look like tourist Eng-
lish women or that section of female Sydneydom
that regularly attends the Philharmonic concerts.
Mrs. Mustin, the bride of the bunch, and the
smartest, was on the dais at the Hospice Ball, and
in her blue gown and long blue gloves she would
have looked quite well if her pretty flaxen hair
hadn’t been giving such an exact imitation of
three pounds of veal sausages. The five wives
tore a bit of food with the mayoral Hughes’ on
Sunday.
News of the amount of the cheque that will re-
sult from the Hospice Ball ought to be
broken to that institution in instalments —like
a serial story. Else might it get a shock. There
never was, of its kind, a more triumphant financial
success. Galleries crowded, floor too crowded for
dancing, the tableaux perfect, and the music good.
Gog and Magog, otherwise the drum major
colossi of the Kilties Band, stood either side of
the portals of the Town Hall booming out “House
Full,” before eight o’clock, to disappointed
thousands. The tone of their booming was as of
the pre-adamite sky-scraper bittern holding
forth in Bft. of swamp. “It is a good
thing to specialise,” as the cat told her kittens
when she sprang for a mouse. The Kilties
have specialised themselves as Caledonians, kilted,
but with maple leaves in their forty-odd
heads of hair. Their conductor looks as suave
and bland as Mr. Bruce Smith. When he turns
to smile and bow to the audience, he reminds of a
lullaby done into man. His smile is the best
canned goods. But the fox’s head he wears as a
sporran ! Even though dead and stuffed, that
fox’s face seems to smile inscrutably over the cun-
ning of its wearer at bringing a letter of introduc-
tion from the Governor-General of Canada to the
Governor-General of Australia. The maple leaf
blooms on the Kilties’ silken banners.
Maple syrup and haggis !
Amongst the 3100 persons present were the
Rawson Two, attended by hardy perennial-
bloomer Wilson, and with the party of six was
the footballer Kyrke youth, who wears the
new shade in hair—pale ale. He is staying at
Cranbrook.
A Kiltie infant, who presented Miss Rawson
with a huge heliotrope posy, showed how they do
small girls’ hair in Canada. Her fair mane was
parted in the middle and down the back, and
the two pieces plaited tightly up behind and
above the ears, and tied there 'with huge bows of
wide blue ribbon. One might say she had a good
head of ribbon.
Mrs. F. Shipman beamed upon her husband’s
enterprise enclosed in a cretonne cloak that must
have thought it was the Durbar, so gaily and Asiati-
cally was it colored. Mr. J. C. Williamson, who
rarely goes to any show save his own, was present
with Mrs. The T. H. Kelly dame was the only
well-known Canadian within view. But not
many Canadians pervade Sydney.
Mr. Ernest Shipman, here on a visit, is married
to Miss Rozelle Knott, who is an actress of some
distinction and more than some beauty. She is
starring with her own company in her own country.
A man sends me this: It was exactly
like some chapters from G. B. Shaw’s
novel, “Cashel Byron’s Profession,” to visit
“Tommy” Burns’ training-quarters on Satur-
day and see the champion showing off his
paces, with many beauteous ladies present. First,
Tommy punched the bag in dexterous style; then
he skipped ; then he Sandowed with apparatus,
and then did exercises for the stomach muscles,
while lying extended on a dressing-gown on the
floor of the practice tent. Then he playfully
pretended to be -fighting the circumambient
air, and ducking, warding, and avoiding the
fists of imaginary Squires, Marvin Harts
and Johnsons. With breathless fascination
the ladies watched these evolutions of the
heavy, sleepy-looking man* who, at moments
became as alert and lithe as the panther
and as masterful in expression as a Bonaparte.
One could see the beauteous damsels were work-
ing up until gore was what they would be asking
for next. But, instead of gore, afternoon tea was
served on the lawn of Mrs. Bateman’s house,
Darling Point, where the Burnses are staying;
and the slender, ethereal Mrs. Noah Brusso did
the honors. Owing to a strain in the arm,
“ Tommy ” was unable to give a boxing ex-
hibition, and made a short speech to that effect,
whereupon the ladies looked disappointed.
While Burns was extended on the ground,
exercising the muscles, one kidy audibly and
proudly explained to Mrs. Tommy that her hus-
band also did that every morning.
Why hasn’t someone brought Mr. Bill Squires’
aged mother down from Newcastle, and made her
the central figure in little At Homes and private
boxing exhibitions for ladies? Mrs. Tommy
Burns has been exploited in this way by the
astute Mr. Mclntosh. If Squires is unmarried,
his ma would do as well as Mrs. Burns in the
capacity of a pourer-out of tea and as a bouquet-
holder.
A younger son of Mr. and Mrs. Randal Carey
(Lionel by first name) was married last week to
Miss Helena Coates, a Rand wick girl.
Maggie Papakura, the Rotorua guide, who
was to run a Maori troupe here in our-functional
Fleet week, has postponed the event. Pleet week
was too full already.
Mr. A J. Daplyn reminds that the Artists’
Ball will occur on September 4.
A returned traveller asserts that in Paris she
met and talked with a certain Sydney citizen
who, less than six months ago, had an inquest
held on his remains. Suicide was the verdict.
The tourist did not know until she came back that
the gentleman was buried, or she wouldfhave asked
him how he liked being dead.
Miss Carrie Swain is a marvel ! She got another
husband some months ago, and now she’s got a
singing engagement.
Another returned tourist saw Mr. Slattery in
the Bois de Boulogne, also Mrs. Kellermann and
her children. Wonderful how the departed get
to Paris and from thence to publicity.
Talking of seeing people : “ Louise,” of Sydney,
ran across Mr. Goring Thomas, who was fairly
well known here amongst the melomaniacs a few
years ago. He has given up melody, and is
frightfully prosperous through “commercial en-
terprises.” At a reception at the Franco-British
Exffshe saw Florence Schmidt (as was) looking
first-rate, and dressed in chestnut-brown ribbed
velvet. Thea Proctor was there §lso. She had
just won a £3O prize in the Women’s work section.
George Lambert was getting his hogs’-bristle
brushes ready to start his portrait of the King, for
the new Colonial Club.
All the well-dressed French and Englishwomen,
says “Louise,” wear ruffs—dog-collars they are
called in Paris. Tulle, chiffon, ostrich, or ostrich
and marabout feathers are the most popular.
Rather heavy meshes are used in veilings. Veils
must come below the chin, almost on to the chest,
and the ends are gathered up. The French-
woman has a great affection for her hat. She
never parts with it in public except at the opera,
at balls, and at a few theatres that stipulate on
the programmes “Sans chapeaux.” Their male
countryman seems to be quite in sympathy with
them about the hat-wearing even when the colossal
thing hopelessly obstructs his view. He thinks it is
a pretty hat, and that it is quite natural she should
like to show it. Fashion-nrongers and papers per-
sistently say that the petticoat is going, going,
gone. I don’t believe it will go. It has certainly
not gone —for street frock toilets.' The smartly-
coiffed woman has her hair almost Greek fashion
on her neck. By the way, they don’t say
“smart” in Paris. “Stylish” is the correct
jargon. Huge hats, big flowers, especially roses,
masses of tulle ostrich feathers, and ospreys are
the millinery. All the frocks at the Grand Prix
were coats and skirts, or cut en princesse, but there
was nothing stiff or starchy, and the “ snake ” or
“ sheath ” robe was only worn by a few women
who were out for advertisement.
Dr. Schiitt, of Sydney—l think he came out in
the same vessel as Musgrove’s German Opera Co.
and later married one'of its best dressed constel-
lations—has been in print in the Frankfurter
Zeitgng. “Sketches from Australian Life”
would be the l translation of the screed. The
doctor doesn’t like our prices for foodstuffs,
our lack of laborers and domestic helps, the long
Saturday-to-Mondaygap between letter deliveries,
and the Saturday half-holiday. He doesn’t
approve of the Law reaching out a long blue arm
for the man found in a bar after 11 p.m. He
admits admiringly that the Australian women
knowhow to dress, but adds that “their whole
intellectual abilities are spent for tlr t very reason
on the selection of toilets and finery.” Well, an
English writer has-avenged us in advance. He
declared that in a well-to-do German family eight
girls have only one collar among them, and pass
it round till a gloom falls upon it. Then it is
washed under the joint supervision of the eight
girls.
A belated Rocky Mountain post-card (with a
cold-shiver-down-your-spine view on it) comes
from Mr. A. P. Buller, the Maorilander. He re-
ports himself in great form, and says the voyage
was delightful.
It was an emerald-green Ada Crossley that the
Austral Club farewelled. She wore emerald-green
ninon-de-soieover eau-de-nil satin charmeuse, and
a big black picture-hat with ostrich feathers. The
strenuous Miss Maggie Baxter read the address
to Miss Crossley, and ran the reception with suc-
cess. The Austral Club, which was founded a few
years ago by the two Browne sisters, of Mel-
bourne-—Mrs. Hirst Alexander and Miss Myra
Browne—and a Sydney lady (name disremembered)
seems to be a bright and successful undertaking in
Bull Land. At the Lyceum Club reception our
contralto was a faint grey crepe Ada, with an
Empire coat of the same, profusely embroidered in
emerald green and tawny yellow. Crossley is a
frocker of the first style.
Dr. Ida Carlson, of Woollahra, has retired from
her medical practice for a while. Some of her
patients and friends gathered at a musical At
Home at Baumann’s and gave her an address and
souvenir, and everyone said the equivalent to
“get rested and come back soon.”
Thus “ Mario,” from Brisbane :
His Ex. had a birthday on Show day. His speech at
the Show luncheon had quite a birthday gladsomeness in
it, and when he likened the acting-Premier to Casabianca
he broke the bank, so to speak. It was a day of con-
gratulations, for his Ex. (on reaching his 22nd birthday or
thereabouts), for the Show president on a record day
(48,000 odd), and, lastly, for Chairman John Macdonald,
who, after a very severe shaking, was able to sit up
and take nourishment again.
When 9 o’clock came last Tuesday evening George-
street was blocked with cabs from the Treasury to the
gates of the palace of King Ned’s representative. It was
the At Home given for the country people by her Lady-
ship, and she did it well. There must have been nearly
500 guests, and as our skimpy vice-regal shanty has to be
turned inside out on such occasions, their entertainment
meant a heap of work. Drawing-room, dining-room
and hall were converted into one greenery-festooned
ballroom. Then the verandahs on three sides were
enclosed, carpeted, and made weather-proof, and supper
was served in the space thus provided. But the features
of the evening were the sitting-out tents, where many
cosy corners were screened off, in order that young
Cowjuice might resort there and propose to Bailup’s
daughter. Her ladyship shone in white satin, gold tissue
and roses, and a blaze of diamonds.
Our Brisbane golf links have also been most popular
these few weeks, but I hear that the quantities of blue-
coated sailors and very young debutantes that have got
belated there for the day are making the various mothers
nervous. One of our brightest golfers, Miss Mollie
Brenan, has been laid up all through this festive season,
and has been greatly missed.
So many things have happened this week that we all
long to go to bed and loaf there for seven days and seven
nights. We are weary with the show 7, with races,
tea parties, balls (six of them, including one at
Government House) and with battling our respective ways
through a crush like a wool press to watch Monty
Brewster Kingston dissipate his millions. This pleasing
piece of staie work has even broken the “Mother
Goose ” record.
The John Forrest picture-party on Monday evening was
a tumultuous success, and the old grey-and-red-draped
walls have never held a better-dressed throng. There
were about 300 of them. John and his missus said “ How
do?”—the latter in a black satin gown, with the
usual etcs. Government House came along thankfully,
having thereby escaped a Salvation Army rally. On
leaving, her Ex', said “ Good-bye ; I have enjoyed myself ”
her first such expression in this city in four years !
Strange and troublous are the ways of those who run
private assemblies. The private and exclusive on Thurs-
day evening provided an anxious time for the committee,
as several wearied station men slept heavily with their
heads against the wall when they should have danced.
Friday saw a host of folks following the disappointing
neddy, and many were the fine clothes on parade.
The engagement of the week (announced) is that of
hahdsome Frank Hewson and Miss Kitty Barton, of down
your way.
Your own Bulletin father Archibald has been with us,
and those who have had the good fortune to meet him
are the richer for the experience. He left us for the
northern passages and Cairns, taking with him a ton of
good wishes.
On Saturday there was an even larger and frockier col-
lection at Ascot, and a cerise splash spread itself across
the emerald grass. All or most of the No. 13 horses won,
and lots of women made a pile—and then, again, lots
didn’t. The Government House lady was sombre in
brown, with a square yoke of guipure lace and a feathery
hat, and the Toowoomba crowd cut a splash as usual.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS LTD
VICE- REGAL -JEWELLERS ■ WATCHMAKERS • SILVERSMITHS
VISITORS TO SYDNEY are invited to inspect
... HARDY BROTHERS’ COLLECTION of ...
Australian GEMS
ioco©®"
Australian (Jems, mounted
in a variety of Designs,
suitable for Souvenirs,
Trinket Boxes, Match
Boxes, Cigarette Cases,
Paper Knives, Umbrella
Handles.
Australian Gems, mounted
as Necklets, Pendants,
Bracelets, Brooches, Ring's
and Earrings.
Designs and Estimates
given for Mounting Gems
to Customers’ own ideas.
FINE AUSTRALIAN OPAL and DIAMOND NECKLACE, £35.
m
AUSTRALIAN CiM BRACELETS IN A VARIETY OF DESIGNS.
PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
SIS QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON ADDRESS 19-CHARTERHOUSE STREET
mmm
a
a
The
Beverage
of
Health
and
Refreshment.
Sold by
all
Hotels,
Grocers
and
General
Stores.
The “ 0.T.” Museum of Shams.
It cannot be uninteresting to bring to the notice of the public the manner in which an
article that, in consequence of its particular qualities has obtained a world-wide reputation, is
imitated in one way and another by a certain class of people who, by this means, try to sell
such shams to the public.
At our factory we have established an “0.T.” museum of shams—a collection of counterfeit
imitations of this favorite beverage, against which it is necessary for us to warn the public.
A preparation which has induced so many attempts at imitation must be excellent— and you
will find it a distinct ad vantage to insist on the genuine “0.T.” whenever the substitute is offered.
Seasonable and
Satisfactory vSuits.
In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns
to thoughts of
''
f
F. J. PALMER & SON’S
Stylish Suits
To Measure,
50s„ 635., 70., 755., 84s.
Perfect Fit* Latest Fashion*
A*L Finish*
We employ the cleverest cutters
in the Commonwealth, and all
garments are made throughout
on our own premises*
Call or write for Patterns of our
New Spring Fabrics, mailed
free with Tape and simple
Self-measure form, on receipt of
your name and address*
May we send you a set ?
F. J. PALMER & SON,
The Criterion Tailors, opposite the Criterion Theatre,
Corner of Pitt & Parß Streets, Sydney.
And at George Street, Haymarket.
A Rapid and Easy Shaver
Fitted with a keen arid specially hollow-ground blade, the
PLUM RAZOR makes shaving- rapid and easy. The difference
between the PLUM and all other razors is in the steel —only
the finest of SILVER steel being- used for the PLUM.
THE PLUM RAZOR, 10/6, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightn ng Sharpener, 6d
Uake Univerea> Snaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
WE GRIND AND SET RAZORS.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
V
ti »
The Carrington Hotel,
KATOOMBA.
Ideal AVinter Climate.
Winter Terms, Bs. per Day ; £2 2s. per Week.
A. L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
THE JERDAN HOME BATTERY.
-V. V"
Price 35/-, Post Free.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
WHEN we say it is indestructible we
mean it in every sense.
It has no wearing parts or delicate
mechanism to get out of order.
It will last a lifetime, with an occasional
renewal of the dry cells.
There are no liquids or chemicals to spill
or dry up, and it needs no skilled know-
ledge to use it.
It is easily controllable, and can be
regulated at pleasure.
Especially is it valuable in cases of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Lumbago, Nervousness,
Insomnia, and similar illnesses.
WAS OSBORN AND JERDAN—
NOW JERDAN’S FOR SHORT.
JORDAN’S
(OSBORN AND JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.


Although the hurricane of Fleet Exuber-
ance is now at its height in Sydney, the spirit of
peace has the proceedings safely tucked under its
radiant wing. Also Admiral Moderation, inspired
bv D.C.L. Whisky, is laying the course. And
where D.C.L. is the directing influence at the
wheel, Cheerfulness, and Wisdom must
be in possession of the deck.*
Mr W A Peak, Mount Barker, S.A.,
writes’:- 11 1 firmly believe that by the timely use
of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy we saved the
life of our child when attacked with croup.
/
2 l \
1
(uhJ
m
Gracefulness and Freedom
of Figure and Movement is necessary for
your comfort and health.
“P.D. CORSETB” assure you of these
great essentials—imparting a beauty of form,
an attractiveness of personality, and a
stylishness of deportment that no other
make of Dorset can approach. Every pair of
“ P.D.” CORSETS is beautifully shaped, and
whether Nature has endowed you with a
beautiful figure or not, you will find one in a
“P. D.” CORSET. Made of the highest
quality materials—bv skilful French Cor-
setieres, “P.D.” CCRSETS possess all the
superb lines of beauty, with the additional
advantage of perfect ease —comfort —freedom
—support and superior service.
PRICEB RANGE FROM 6/11 up to £4/4/- PAIR.
Only First-class Drapers and
Storekeepers stock
“ P.D.”c,.,«.“ P.D.”
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 17, 1908.
Mr Dear Yarrie.—
The balls and return balls of suburban Mayor-
dom keep up like a smart game of ping pong.
“Spat” goes the Mayor’s ball at Malvern.
“Bang” comes the return ball of P’ran. “Spit-
spat” go the rest of them, from Footscray
to St. Kilda. There’s a rush of the Invited
to the free spread, and with horrible re-
luctance, but “for appearance sake,” they
drag out their half-guinea for the “ return.” The
supper is always the point of criticism.
Is His Unhappy Highness the Mayor worth his
salt? Does he spend enough money? At the
Return, the haunting supper question arises
again: “Are we getting our money’s worth?”
Decorations come a good second to supper ; the
music and floor are a poor fifth. The hall is wedged
with frump and frock—full of the pomp of furry
reception. The wives of the Leading Lights
bathe in the self-glory of their new silks, while
the wives of the Lights-Under-a-Bushel cringe in
their weird crumpledness now they’re dragged out.
The youth who want to dance stack up patiently
at one end or find snug corners while Stodge gets
through its official sets. Wallflower daughters
line the hall in unbroken rows. Ten o’clock and
supper clear the room somewhat. Eleven sees the
departure of the majority of the well-fed Stodge
family and the most hopeless of the wallflowers.
Then blossom-out the stacked up Pretty Girl and
the amorous wine-filled Youth, and in the left-
clear space they whirl a giddy toe till 2 a.m.
Yawning cabmen carry off the last of a Mayors
Ball in thick bunches that “sit intimate.” They
get dropped at their home street-corners with
hysterical “good-byes” that are the last sylvan
sounds before the yowl of “Milk-o.” Blessed
blossoms of winter blooming.
Man in Melbourne is becoming a social outcast
to a certain extent, but bears up cheerily under
the blow. Fancy-dress balls for women are in-
creasingly the vogue. A committee is formed of
some of the prominent members of a little circle,
and they issue invitations asking other young
damsels to come and revel, and, in the event of
their deciding to revel, to forward a shilling or so
to pay for the music, milk and buns. Stout,
elderly and thoroughly married policemen are
bespoken to shoo inquisitive males off the verdure.
The daughters of Lieut.-Colonel Reay, of the
Evening Herald, and their friends are the prime
movement in this forlorn-hope attempt to dis-
pense with the indispensable.
Two charity matinees are being worked up by
opposition shows for the final week of September
and the preliminary week of October. The first
to have its innings is that in aid of the Newsboys’
Society, which is being engineered by the hand-
some Donald Mackinnon dame. Mr. J. C.
Williamson will lend Her Majesty’s Theatre, and
a play by Miss Sumner Locke is to get its first
show. The other performance will be in aid of
that appealing charity, the Women’s Hospital.
Funds are being raised to provide more room.
Mrs. Senator St. Ledger is putting a strong secre-
tarial shoulder to the wheel, and Mrs. Freeman
Nott has a voice in the matter. Both affairs are
in the initial chaos of committee discussion and
raggy rehearsal, and look exactly like the second
verse of Genesis, to which please refer for further
particulars.
Cards with a cheerful skull-and-crossbones de-
sign flutter out for the annual ball of the Medical
Students’ Society. The ghoulish frisk is dated
for Wednesday, August 26, in St. Kilda Town
Hall.
The medicoes of Melbourne gave a sausage and
potato and the run of the cruet last week, to mark
the passing over of a bachelor colleague, Dr.
Stawell, to the ranks of those who are pledged to
keep a lady in food and clothes for the term of her
natural life. Stawell, who has grown grey in his
state of single cussedness, and was thought invul-
nerable is the third of a bachelor quartette to
break faith. The congress gave the matter very
serious attention while eating. At one time four
Melbourne doctors—Jeff Wood, Percy Webster,
Dick Stawell, and Hamilton Russell—swore
themselves and each other to celibacy.
They lived together in the bliss of the male
spinster’s house. Dr. Jeff Wood was the first to
fall awav. Then Webster backslid ; now Dick
Stawell.” The matter under discussion was what
to do with the last corner-stone of the unfaithful
square It was decided to raffle him. He is far
too handsome to be left lonesome, and much too
shy (so said his brothers) tc propose to a nice girl
without being shoved from behind. Hamilton
Russeil is the most musical of an ultra-musical set
of medicoes. He haunts the concert-hall and is a
brilliant pianist. It was he who mended
Carrefio’s hurt finger, and the bandaging and
doctoring were akin to worship.
At a recent ball the committee amazed Mel-
bourne Town Hall by making it comfortable-look-
ing. They furnished the cavernous south gallery
as a drawing-room, and placed the Miadden Ex-
cellencies on high on a dais, where they were a
decoration in themselves. The Madden lady, look-
ing down musingly on the chaotic hundreds and the
usual weary wallflower garden, gave voice to an
idea that shocked the chaperones. “ Don t you
think we should announce that introductions are
unnecessarv ? ” she drawled. The matrons were
electrified and stared in horror ‘ 111 do it at my
next dance,” asserted the Madden dame.. bhe
evidently has been won over to the opinion of
Higginson-Danilo, of “ The Merry Widow, who
“reads women like a book, and generally skips
the introduction.”
There is a far-off roll of drums—a signal of the
coming war for the Weedling’s mayoral chair.
The present-absent gaqd Mayor has sat on a few
inches of the mayoral chair for three successive
years He has captured his titulary prefix, and
it is asserted that he will not seek re-election.
The vice-acting figurehead makes a stupendous
bid for popularity, and has a glad backer-up in his
golden-haired acting gaudy Mayoress. A distant
piping comes from Councillor Burston, but the
guns have not opened fire yet. The Weedhng re-
turns simultaneously with the Fleet.
Gossip gosps that yet another son of a whisky
millionaire (Dewar) has cast his eye on an Aus-
tralasian maiden. The girl is a Bendigoman and
a singer and she travelled from Away-beyond on
the same boat as the wandering distillery.
Dame Forrest is unaffectedly devoted to her
Big John, and seemingly more indulgent to the
chubby, round-eyed daughter of hubby s dead
brother than ever she was to her own nieces, the
tall, dark-eyed Hammersley girls. The latter,
however, in their spinster days had no cause to
complain of lack of kindness from burly uncle-in-
law Forrest. The Hammersley sisters are all
married now, two of them to up-to-date repre-
sentatives of the “Six Families.” The third
struck out afield and wedded a Maoriland doctor
who died recently, so that the former Miss Mary
Hammersley is now a young widow with two
toddling orphans clinging to her sombre skirts.
The Hat has come—the cross between a Nell
Gwynne cart-wheel and an ostrich farm —that
has effectually shadowed the most recent races at
Longchamps and Ascot. Two flutterers in Mel-
bourne’s most elevated whirl engaged a couple of
thatch-dressers, a morning or so back, for some
hours’ solid graft to form a 'foundation, then
donned their imported “ creations,” and drove to
tea at Paris Cafe. They tried to walk Collins-
street afterwards, but caused a block in the traffic
outside the cafe door. After a startled glance at
the excited multitude, the girls bolted back and
sent a porter for a keb. Then they made a wild
dash and a leap, and disappeared.
Mrs. Eugenie Duggan Anderson made a good
first attempt on the new hat-fashion while driving
out to the races on Saturday. Her blue plumes
waved from one side of Collins-street to the other
in the triumphant roll of her landau.
Each Hambourg concert sees a strong contin-
gent of medical men in the audience. A doctor-
man expanded the other day, and tried to account
for the attraction. “They are such wonderful
muscles,” he said. “Hambourg is such a power-
ful fellow, and yet he can play as gently as a cat
with a mouse—it’s fascinating to watch.” After
a small informal man’s dinner one evening, some
medicos “sooled ” Hambourg and Professor Mar-
shall-Hall on to a wrestling match. It was a
curiously even match, yet, stripped, no two
humans could be less alike. Marshall-Hall had
the long-arm agility and look of a gorilla ; Ham-
bourg, the heavy shoulders and the hideous
strength of a lion. Probably he is the only pro-
fessional pianist on earth who ever dreamed of
risking a breakage in such "rough sport. A frac-
tured elbow or dislocated finger might end burly
Mark’s public career, yet he ‘‘took_ on” the
wrestle as gaily as he used to go scorching on his
bike in days of yore.
Mark Hambourg had a house full of souls and
shekels on Thursday afternoon for his Chopin
recital. A winter matinee provides the correct
half-tone background —the misty dusk light—for
the worship of the Soulful One. Mrs. Hambourg
sat like a winter angel wrapped in her white
wings, and with her white tail coiled out of sight
beneath the seat. Her white dress was muffled in
the expensive purity of ermine, and her white
gloved hands were warmed by an ermine muff.
She smashed her halo, however, with a black hat,
from which glared the blue and scarlet plumage
of a big dead Joey parrot. Muriel Cumming
shone out of the dim balcony like a huge ruby,
in an all-red dress and all-dusk hat. Mrs.
Anderson wore Siberian princess furs and the
innocent white hat of the ill-used heroine. Mrs.
Tallis covered her grey frock with sables, and a
wicked and adventurous aigrette waved from her
sable toque. Mrs. Tom Hogan showed off her
cheek-bloom by black plumage.
Carrie Moore says that she intends to give a
shock to “those wretched newspaper people.” I
understand the shock is to be the very sudden
arrival of Billie-the-husband-that-is-to-be.
Along with the three Cherniavskis (the Russian
musical prodigies) a young English baritone,
named Percival Driver, is coming to Australia.
Percival accompanies himself at the pianoforte,
and is said to be a very fetching item. Also Mrs.
Marie Hooten will be heard again in the land
with this company. She is remembered as one
of those comparatively rare platform vocalists
whose voice nas the true contralto timbre as well
as the contralto range. If the three foreign
musicians with the butter-making name are equal
to the advance notices of them, the combination
should have a prosperous tour.
Rita Hope, pianiste, is returning to Melbourne
next month after three years of study in Vienna
under the masterful Leschitzky, who taught
Paderewski and Mark Hambourg how to smite
and tickle the keyboard. Rita, of course, was not
always receiving tuition from the owner of the
sneezelike name and famous reputation. She got
away from Vienna sometimes, and a while ago
she gave a recital in London, with great success
as regards press notices. But it is of the Austrian
capital that the young artiste will have much to
say when she comes back with her culture thick
upon her. She brings the latest news of Mrs.
Doubleday and her daughter Leila, and other
musical Australians who went away to get re-made
in Germany and thereabouts. Also she intends
to reveal her ripened talent at a concert as soon
as the matter can be arranged. Coming after a
procession of foreign musicians, some of whom
have yet to arrive, the Melbourne girl from
Vienna should strike the public as a timely novelty.
An Australian chum writes of the AdaCrossley-
Muecke home (Durham House, Hampstead,
England) where there have been junketings
and receptions lately. The house is a fine
old place, with rooms heavily panelled in
oak ; the garden a bioomingly gorgeous
wilderness and extensively glassed. They have
hot-housed a patch of eucalyptus, and now
(June, and summer) h ive planted out a baby gum
forest. The billiard-room is full of Australian
curios and a fine set of Maori trophies that poor
dead Dick Seddon gave Ada years ago. At a
recent At Home one of the guests was Miss
Clemens (Mark Twain’s daughter), who is making
public appearances in London as a singer. She
trills a rich contralto voice, and having had several
good recitals, she talks some of visiting Australia
later.
An exile writes from London :
Mrs Moloney, widow of Dr. Pat, bone-setter and Shak-
spearian scholar, is here, looking her old plump, downright
self. She is still addicted to religion and tailor-made
clothes The large, unmarried sister of Mrs. Pat (Fanny
Quirk) is in the East fossicking for holy relics, doing pil-
grimages, interviewing exalted personages, and writing
in i P saw Sweet Nell Stewart yesterday, and chatted with
her. It was a youthful Nell in a quaint, high-waisted
Empire frock anda shady gardener’s daughter hat decked
with La France roses ; and it was a sound and cheerful
Nell into the bargain. The Harley-street bone-setters
and amputators debated for we: ks over the possible
necessity of cutting off about one-sixth of Sweet Nell—a
leg I believe it was ; but time brought repairs upon its
wings, and now the lady can dance as airily as of old. She
looked younger in the June sunshine of Pall Mall yester-
day than she did two years ago in Melbourne, and the
blue eye beamed like a bit of the floor of Paradise.
An opulent grass-widow still dallies with, her ugly old
Australian boy-pal. The pair passed me in an electric
flier t’other day, leaning to each other at a more than
platonic angle. The Big Smoke is very small after all.
Mrs. Dane-Valenti quits London awhile to raise her
mezzo notes in the land of macaroni and Dagos. She is
booked for the opera season.
Haigh Jackson is now a fully-fledged and legitimate
tenor. He warbled in fine form at his wife’s concert the
other night at the Steinway Hall. The said dame—Anita
Sutherland, the predecessor of Mrs. Janson at the Mel-
bourne Conservatorium—looked gorgeous in coral and
ivory chiffon, and sang with an eloquence of passion.
Out of 136 pictures in Hans Heysen’s display,
at the Guild Hall, 50. were sold during the first
week, and the number of red labels is likely to be
increased before the show closes on Saturday.
The Melbourne Gallery trustees are said to have
practically decided upon the purchase of “A
Lord of the Bush” (No. 30), which is the most
charming of Heysen’s big landscapes in oils,
although not finer in some respects than “The
Way Home,” a quiet, restful picture that would
bear a little alteration as regards the unconvincing
ducks in the foreground. But the beautiful water-
color, “A Midsummer Morning” (32), had not
yet been secured for the local Gallery at time of
writing. If the trustees let that go begging for a
buyer, they will deserve all the scornful remarks
that have ever been levelled at their body cor-
porate.
The Old Colonists’ Home at Fitzroy is a pro-
lific institution, which at irregular intervals adds
young cottages to the old buildings. The corner
stones of four houses were laid with much pomp
and trumpeting on Wednesday afternoon. The
aged residents get a fair amount of mirth out
of these ceremonies ; they string together yards of
bunting, and revel in a band and much bun.
The band in this instance was the Collingwood
Caledonian Pipe institution, but it was disap-
pointing to find that the Collingwood Scotch
Pipers did not wear three-inch-high heels, or rows
of plate-size pearl buttons wheie their nether
garments are supposed to be. State Governor
Carmichael bossed the show, and almost wept
over the music, remarking that it was “a dear
sound to a Highland Laddie,” whilst his lady, in
a nodding brown feather hat and sumptuous sables,
smiled in sympathy. Solemnly the Governor smote
with his trowel on the stones of the cottages
that are being provided by Malcolm McEacharn
and his wife. Mr. John Blyth dabbed the mortar
for a cottage endowed by Mr. James Cumming,
and Mr. James Grice had his whack of masonry
by laying the corner stone of a cottage to be
erected to the memory of the late John Russell
McPherson, a good man of Casterton. There
are now 73 cottages in the reserve, and
the institution has recently acquired 4| acres
adjoining the original property. This space has
been set apart for old actors’ homes, and when
one considers the precariousness of the mumming
trade and the wondrous durability of the super-
annuated mummer, nothing is likely to be wasted
out of the 4Jr acres.
The Ayreys have been providing; a judicial
separation case, in which the revelations were as
nothing compared with the hopes of the com-
munity. All the public got was a dis-
cussion over the question whether it is
cruelty for an elderly husband to make his com-
paratively young wife get out of bed on cold
nights to rub his aged rheumatism with kerosene,
which rheumatism, by the way, could easily be
accounted for if squatter Ayrey ever slept in the
huts on his run. Also whether it is cruelty for a
husband to drive his wife in a buggy over rough
ground, and thus bump her severely, and to order
tradesmen not to supply her with goods. Those
were the allegations. The application was
dismissed —with Costs. Grazier Ayrey is an
old man of many muttons, who has never been
known to spend a penny where a farthing would
do. The bickering is with his second wife—a
comparatively young thing. Ayrey’s place, War-
ranooke, is one of the finest and oldest stations on
the Wimmera.
The name of Ayrey recalls “King” Casey, a gay
young thing in pensioners. Supposehe must be well
over 70, but he has evidently discovered a secret of
second youth. He chases Climate ; takes a run
through the States, up through Sydney, Brisbane
and round about, then flutters off to Paris and
goes on other travels. He returns to Melbourne
and St. Kilda every now and again, very much
alive and rejuvenated. Casey got his pension as
Judge—on the Bench—after his political career,
lie has been absorbing that pension now for 17
years, and looks good for another 17. His period
of office-holding dates back to the time of the
great land swindles, when he bashed and fought
and tore up the ground round the squatters who
blocked settlement in the back country.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide-which-won’t-see-
the-Fleet: —
Mr. C. 5. Stevens, who is principal boss monarch of the
Choral Society, and sundry other eminent things in the
mewsical world, gave an evening on oratorio at the
Lyric Club last week. Most of the several hundred mem-
bers stayed away with much enthusiasm, just by way of
discouraging him to do it again. There has been a great
crv lately among members over the lack of classical pro-
grammes in the club’s list for this year ; but all the
same the “good music” evenings are always poorly at-
tended, while dramatic or variety shows bring the whole
concourse of members and friends to be trodden to
death in the struggle for space. So evidently the cry
merely arises from the desire to make a noise. Being a
good-natured person, Mr. Stevens didn’t go home in a
temper and take his evening on oratorio with him,
but staved and handed out an entertaining dis-
course to the little throng of enthusiasts present.
Some fine musical interjections from little known
oratorios were given by Katie Joyce, Harold Savage and
W. H. Saunderson, and altogether the absent members
missed one of the best evenings of the year. The officials
have another cause of complaint against a certain batch
of the members, and have had to resort to large p acards,
“ Silence during the Performance,” to rectify it! ! !
Mrs. Hal lid ay has eeased her efforts to initiate
Adelaide Society into the mysteries of bringing up its
offspring, and Society hasduly said “ Thank-you-so-much-
for-your-improving-conversation - come-again-soon. It
said it publicly, privately and in book form—the last
being artistically ornamented with water-color sketches
of “the Hills.” A chosen few wandered into tea at
Government House one afternoon, and LadyLeHunte,
who has taken a vivid interest in the improved offspring
movement, handed over the volume to the Mothers
Union lady with appropriate rhetoric.
There has been no unusual mortality among offspring
° f Having finished welcoming Premier Price, Adelaide was
beginning to yawn and feel itself a hollow blank, when
“The Merry Widow” drooped down on it on Friday
morning and shook it up.' Such a batch of pretty and
frilly girls this metropolis hasn t seen for an age, and it
is long since it met so many old friends. Since the
moment of their arrival, Carrie Moore and Horence
Young have been followed by a tail of clamoring ac-
q Theta" eft warbler to return to S.A. from Foggy study
is Jessie Redpath, who flew hence about two years ago
with a rather good voice and something of a reputation
Tor her sin"in| of wee Scotch ballads. .She is reported to
have bagged a few stray laurels in Britain but Adelaide
hadn’t heard the result yet. That occult young S.A.
scientist Dr. Dutfield, is also on his way back to
Adelaide with a train of alphabetical decorations follow-
ing h bn like the wounded that follow a retreating army.
Adelaide has been planning some memorial to its late
.rood cttizen Andrew Scott, and has gathered a goodly
bag of money wherewith to found an annual prize at the
’Varsity Itis to be awarded to the best pass student in
Latin and to be called the Andrew Scott prize. Local
golfers have also clubbed together and erected a silver
shield to the deceased’s memory in the Seaton golf-house,
he having been a mighty and prevalent golfer in the land.
Mrs Doubleday, mother of the clever child, Leila,
writes from Vienna that the strenuous youngster is 'vork-
insfhard and making seven-league strides with her fiddle.
She adds ’ “ Rita Hope often aceompameslher, but she
i fnr Australia next month, having made really
wonderful progress. Doris Madden and her mother were
here recently too, and the improvement in her playing is
marvellous. Another young Australian we often see is
Percy Jones, a very clever boy who is studying to be a
conductor.”
Manager Prank Talbot sped through Adelaide last week
and hung up a banner with the strange device, “ Kubelik
is coming.” Less than a week after the Kubelik wizard’s
matinee Mark Hambourg is to descend upon us, and with
these two events and “ The Merry Widow ” the struggle
to keep the cruet o. of pawn will be very severe this giad
spring-time.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :
Previously acknowledged .. .. £3l 2 0
“Shellback” 2 6
ffm. Aylward .. .. •• 5 0
P. Connolly .. .. •. 5 0
Lake Charm (Vic.) .. .. • • 5 0
W. R. Creswell .. .. .. 12 0
Barcaldine Democratic Association 10 0
R. Park 2 6.
Jim Lynch . . .. .. .. 5 0
Jas. O’Leary .. .. .. 2 0
J. Grant .. .. .. •• 5 0
D. Healy .. ... .. .. 2 6
L.G.B. (Tas.) 2 6
£3l 11 0
“ Adelaide ” : This is really interesting.
The S.A. dailies have an advertisement from a
“ Ladies’ College of Health ” in Sydney directed
to all homes “ where baby is wanted but will not
make his appearance.” The treatment advised
“makes motherhood possible in a very short
time,” and as a twopenny stamp will fetch a
“ book telling all about it ” the object of the Col-
lege must be purely philanthropic. Anyway, it is
a pleasant change from the advertisements of
quite another character which we generally get
from N.S.W. “colleges.”
The S. M. Herald, gushing about the
Light-Horse camp at Liverpool (N.S.W.), had
this bit of bluster :
As the two brigades were out exercising and manoeu-
vring, a certain high officer watched them critically.
“ We’d have settled the Boer War in one act if we’d had
them in South Africa when the war broke out,” he said ;
and there was no spread-eagleism in the remark.
Well, they did have altogether some 15,000 of
presumably the same stamp in S'Africa, and even
15,000 didn’t settle the war. Would the 2000 on
parade really have been so much better than the
11,000 British regulars who, after a stand-up fight
with the Boers at Dundee, were forced to shut
themselves up in Ladysmith ? There must have
been something like 10,000 contingenters in
Roberts’ army of 40,000, and yet that army took
three days to beat Cronje’s 3000, and only did it
then because the smell of the dead horses and
cattle became intolerable to the Boers. Britain
had more than 200,000 regular soldiers in the Boer
war, and if the Herald really believes that 2000
Australian Light Horse could have settled the
argument when it broke out, it must have a re-
markably poor opinion of that British regular
army which it is always holding up to Australia
as a model.


Mr. C. L. Tomlinson, Northampton, W.A.,
says : “ I have found Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy to possess wonderful curative properties,
and I never lose an opportunity of recom-
mending it to anyone who is troubled with a
cough or cold.”*
THE PERIL OP OUR TIME
Is lung disease. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
coughs and colds cures lung trouble. Small dose.
Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed. Obtainable
everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
E. E. Hill, Bridgewater, W.A., writes :
“From personal experience I can testify to the
merits of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. Only
last winter it cured me of a very severe cold.’’*
From the “Missing Friends” column of
Melbourne Argus (29/7/’08): —
/"'JHINESE gentleman who raised hat to young lady,
Richmond tram, Monday evening, may write to
“ Friend,” Argus.
And somewhere, doubtless in one of the dark,
smellful by-ways of the city, a Juanesque Chow is
crouching, Argus in hand, wondering if the dear
little soul really wants to meet him, or (horrible
thought) if the ad. is loaded—a wile on the part of
her vengeful big, hard-kicking brother.
Perhaps she’s on the railway 1
Perhaps she’s on the sea !
Perhaps she’ll go
To Jericho,
Perhaps she will! Perhaps she won't.
But if she does or if she don’t,
I’m glad that I presented to her
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
T*lE|®£lEfl*W|>
A second impression of The Lone Hand for
August—American Fleet Souvenir Number—is
now going through the press to meet the demand
of visitors to Sydney for the Fleet festivities.
There have been many “souvenirs” of the
Fleet published in Australia this month. The
August Lone Hand was incomparably the best,
both artistically and informatively. The con-
densed history of the American Navy was alone
worth the price of the magazine. See that you
get this Souvenir number. Having got it yourself,
see that your friends who have not a chance to
see the Fleet get it.
The price is but one shilling.
For September, The Lone Hand is printing a
special number of vital Australian interest, to hold
the attention of our American visitors. The
series of articles by Louis Esson on the Asiatic
Menace is continued. There is a set of caricature
pictures of our rulers in the Federal Parliament:
and the series of photographs of notable Aus-
tralians in their youth is continued with boyhood
pictures of Mr. Alfred Deakin, Sir Samuel
Grffith, Mr. Gr. H. Reid, and others.
The Lone Hand is the sort of publication you
must get every month.
PlCl^lEf|AND
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Ballad of Brown Eyes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is the ballad of Brown Eyes, sung by a
Man of Sin,
Saved from the Slough of Despond his soul
hath wallowed in.
I was a Rebel Chieftain. She was a Rebel
Queen.
We set our feet to the future, and all the world
was green.
She dwelled with her great-limbed clansmen; I
was a stranger there.
I bore her over the threshold and carried her
otherwhere.
The Sun went under the mountain that rose from
over the sea,
Into the night we journeyed, but Brown Eyes
clung to me.
I laid my hand in the darkness —as ever a man
will do—
On the heart of a timid maiden, and ever the
heart beat true.
Ever she walked in patience ; ever she walked in
love,
For this is the gift to woman that falls from the
Lord above.
We came to the Place of Dwelling. I called to
my fighting kin—
“ I have reived me a foreign woman ! Arise !
and take her in.”
My father strode to the gateway; sternly and
strong he stood;
He scanned her face in the gloaming, and
measured her womanhood.
I saw the eyes of a greybeard light up with a
sudden fire;
And naught in the world I’d dreaded, but I
feared my father’s ire.
I shrank from his cold, sharp anger. He laughed
like a Viking old,
The torches lighting the silver of his hair that
once was gold.
“ You have wroughten many an evil ” —he spake
with an acid tongue —
“You have brought me many a sorrow since the
days of your years were young.
You have drunken and diced and wantoned.
You have housed with the Devil’s Three,
And ’tis little of fame or honor you have brought
to my house or me.
“ But ” —again he faced my woman and measured
her womanhood
(I saw that the end was coming, and knew that
the end was good)—
“But this,” he roared, “is a penance that
shrives you many a sin,
You have found me a goodly daughter ” —and he
led my Brown Eyes in !
We slaughtered the calf at sunset, filling our
flagons high,
We drank to our Kings and Clansmen, my sterri
old sire and I.
We drank to the Future Leaders—the sons of her
strong-limbed sons,
Who’d sit in the Halls of Council, and stand by the
roaring guns.
We were a fighting household, born of a fighting
race,
Flouting the milk-faced merchant, scorning the
market-place ;
Proud as the landless Arabs, vain as they be and
poor ;
Yet never a hungry stranger went unfed from the
door.
That year I followed the furrow, tho’ the seas
were full of song,
And the heart in me leaped to hear them calling
their coasts along.
Spring in her queenly raiment came over the hills
again,
And Brown Eyes moaned in her travail and knew
of the woman’s pain.
She bore me a goodly man-child, sire of the sons
to be,
We wassailed him mighty welcome down by the
shouting sea.
The Autumn, robed in her russet, walked with
the sleety rain ;
The seas in their magic called me ; I took to the
seas again.
Brown Eyes sate by the window' crooning a cradle
song.
Brown Eyes sate by the window, patient and
brave and strong.
I fared to a foreign country. This is the weird 1
dree.
I fared to a lotos country, where sirens sang to me.
The sun comes up in the morning, the sun in the
twilight sets ;
The strength of a man is water ; the mind of a man
‘ forgets.
The Lotos Woman witched me ! God and the
Devil know
How the soul of man is perilled when woman
works his woe.
The heart of me turned to ashes, the soul of me
changed to mud,
For I had eaten the lotos that poisoneth all the
blood !
My sword in its scabbard rusted ; my head was
filled with the wine ;
I sate in the House Uncleanly and swilled with
the grubbing swine !
Came there a fighting kinsman over the land and
sea
Bearing a household message : “ Thy Brown
Eyes waits for thee.”
Never a word of anger, never a curse of scorn—
I rose and followed my clansman into the grey,
cold morn !
Never a word he spake me ; never a word he said,
Till we came to, the Lotos Chamber, with the
Lotos Queen abed.
Then did my footsteps falter ; then did my heart
grow cold ;
Seeing her milk-white bosom warmed by her hair
of gold.
Slowly her dream eyes opened—eyes of the lis-
some grey—
Softly her red lips murmured : “Love of my
longing, stay. ”. . .
God in thy mercy hear me, this is the weird I
dree,
The strength of my manhood failed me— l crawled
to the woman's knee.
Then was I spelled for ever; then was I damned
as well,
Lost to the World of Honor, lost by the gates of
Hell :
But that my noble kinsman, priest and warrior
too,
Out of its rusted scabbard my good sword sternly
drew.
Grasping the mighty weapon, raising the hilt full
high,
He held its cross o’er the woman of the grey
soul-killing eye—
God in Thy mercy hear me, God in Thy might
forgive,
Out of Thy pleasure only planets and flowers
live.
Surely as high he raised it, gracious and won-
drous sign,
The lees of my weakness left me e’en as the lees
of wine,—
She of the silken presence, she of the perfumed
hair,
Hissed like a scalded serpent, cowered and
mumbled there !
Strangely her milk-white bosom, robed in a hair
of gold,
Shrank to a dry witch-semblance, withered and
brown and old.
Slowly her glory faded, till at the last she lay
Like to a corpse, long covered, bared to the
light of day.
I followed my priestly kinsman out to the Lotos
strand,
Where his armed henchmen bided, sword and
shield in hand.
We sailed td our own green country over the
leaping sea,
Where Brown Eyes sate by her casement waiting
amort for me.
Shame, like a horse-hair garment, unto my spirit
clung.
Torn was my heart with anguish, hard were my
withers wrung.
This was my thorn of sorrow ; this is the weird I
dree—
* ‘ What would I say to Brown Eyes ? What
would she say to me ? ”
HOW SYDNEY WILL FEEL TO THE
AMERICAN SAILORS AFTER THE
SKY-SCRAPERS OF NEW YORK.
Yankee A.B. (catching his foot): “ Goldarn
yer ole Town Hall!”
We came to our pleasant Nor’land, from out of
the horrid South.
We came to the iron headland that frowns at the
harbor mouth.
I saw the place of my people, fair-watered and
hilled and high ;
I saw the Place of Abiding, and I willed that I
might die.
Never a word of anger, never a curse of scorn,
Fell from my priestly kinsman, sponsor of my
first-born.
Till that our ship had ground her keel on the soft
home sand
He rose as a Chief of Prophets, and held me by
the hand.
This is my thorn of penance ; this is the weird I
dree :
“By the seaward casement yonder, thy Brown
Eyes waits for thee ;
By the seaward casement yonder ” —these be the
words he said :
“ Lieth thy Brown Eyes waiting; lieth thy
Brown Eyes . . . dead ! ”
God in Thy mercy spare me ! God in Thy might
forgive !
Out of Thy pleasure only, planets and flowers
live.
This is my crown of Sorrow ; this is the weird I
- dree—
Over the seas for ever my Brown Eyes waits for
me.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
In Freetrade England.
Thus the London Referee :
*e is fc J? e use °, f training- our young people to trades
u we do nothing to keep those trades in our own country-?
as u,,d ? r freetrade our foreign rivals can maim-
facture everything we want, and dump it duty-free on our
workmen 6 haV6 a Vast ‘ army ° f unem P lo -V ed British
win 6 in f ni , ty of our system is heartbreaking.
We have trade unions protecting men who work at trades,
„, l ‘ C , the ™ en refusing to protect the trades at which thev
work. Mr. Wilson’s
Bill, we are all agreed,
was State Socialism of
the most costly and
cruel kind, but logic-
ally it is the only
alternative to Fiscal
Keform. We must
either do something
to keep the trades by
which our workers
earn a livelihood in
this country, or let
the unemployed be
maintained by the
State. We cannot al-
low millions of men
and women to die of
starvation. We cannot
have the working
classes of this country
offered up as human
sacrifices to a statue
in Camden Town.
Comrades of Craft
and Brothers of the
beady brow, you have
been told that under
Protection “Yourfood
will cost you more.”
A few more years of
Freetrade and you
will be without the
means of buying any food at all. The ratepayers
will have to feed you, and if you are fed at Poplar
prices, the ratepayers will soon be on the rates them-
selves. But Freetrade and Unemployment for ever 1
A few more years shall roil, and then when the Maori-
lander arrives he will find in the grass-grown capital the
effigy of Richard Cobdkn. Beneath that effigy the Maori-
lander, with a tear of sympathy trickling down his cheek,
will write this epitaph of the English people : “ Ye asked
for bread and they gave you a stone—statue.”
I spent one night, last week, at Medland Hall, the Free
Night’s Shelter in Ratcliff carried on by the Philanthropic
Branch of the London Congregational Union. The Shelter
was full on every floor, and every bunk was allotted. The
men were not of the “ tramp ” order. The vast majority
were workers out of employment, men reduced to the
last necessity, homeless and penniless. Here are the
figures for one week, the week commencing Sunday,
March 8, and ending Saturday, March 14 :
Men sleeping in Shelter 2401
Men turned away for want of room, but given
bread .. .. ion
Men receiving bread-and-butter between 12 p.m.
and 4 a.m. 2256
Total 6568
A special man leaves Medland Hall every night at 12
o’clock and distributes tickets for a half-pound of bread-
and-butter from Aldgate Pump onward. He walks to
Westminster Bridge via the Embankment, returning via
the Strand and Fleet-street. To get this half-pound of
bread-and-butter, many of these men have to walk from
the neighborhood of the Embankment to Ratcliff, and
that must be at least four miles. The nightly average of
men walking four miles at dead of night to get a bit of
bread-and-butter is 322. Look at these figures which re-
present only one Shelter for the homeless unemployed,
and you will see there is something the matter w ith the
economic conditions of the country.
That the bulk of the men at Medland Hall are workers
is proved by a large number of them rising at three in the
morning to see if they can get a job at the dock gates,
the wharf, or at the markets.
It has been contended that men use the Shelter in
order to keep their bed money and spend it in drink.
One night not long ago this point was urged by a visitor.
The Secretary, who was present, at once turned to the
men, made a little speech, and asked them if they would
submit then and there to the test of being searched.
They consented, and after the men had been thoroughly
overhauled the sum of £1 2s. 6d. was found in their
pockets, and of this one man had 7s. 6d. He explained
that he was a skilled workman and had been out of work
for some weeks. He had the chance of going into a job
in a w'eek’s time, but it was impossible for him to go
ragged as he was, and he was saving every copper to buy
a suit of clothes. The balance, therefore, was 15s. among
321 men. This would work out at about a halfpenny
each. The price of a bed in the lowest doss-house in
London is 4d.
One day last week I went along the Commercial-road
to the Highway of St. George’s-in-the-East, and so into
Shadwell. Along the Commercial-road I passed shop
after shop closed, with bills of To Let ”on the shutters.
Many of these shops were large establishments which had
been trading there for 30 or 40 years. In Shad-
well, when I had passed through a street of closed shops,
I met a woman standing at the door of a shuttered estab-
lishment, and I asked if it was a public holiday. She told
me that it was no good keeping the shops open, “there
was no money about.” From end to end of that portion
of the East End I heard the same thing everywhere. “ The
people are earning no money.”
There is something radically w'rong with trade and em-
ployment. The appalling conditions are only known to
those who are in constant touch with them. We must
make up our minds speedily for energetic action, or a
black and terrible future lies before us. lam told to look
at the Trade Returns. I know those Trade Returns, and
I know' what they mean. My answer to the professional
politicians who put these utterly deceptive figures for-
ward for party purposes is “ A fig for your Trade Re-
turns—look at the people.”
The Humane Jap Law-Griver.
A man on the spot writes of Japanese justice:—
Not. a little excitement, with some degree of irritation,
has been aroused among foreigners here over the
prosecution, condemnation, and imprisonment of a
British subject, Mr. Ernest Thomas Bethell, recently
editor and proprietor of the Korea Daily News, the only
independent foreign newspaper published in Seoul.
Reports of this now famous trial have, doubtless, reached
Occidental readers through the press dispatches, but
there are some interesting phases of the affair not sup-
posed by the authorities to be within the province of the
Associated Press. It was, in fact, brought out at the
trial that the agents of the foreign press in Korea
have to be approved by the Japanese authori-
ties ; and it is a matter of public notoriety
that the Japanese Government has closed all avenues
issuing news calculated to reflect on the Korean adminis-
tration. For example, there is at present going on in
Korea a vigorous campaign of more than 20,000 troops,
bent on the extermination of the rebels, with orders to
shoot down all resistants. Bloody conflicts with numer-
ous casualties are of daily occurrence ; yet only the
barest mention of selected events ever reaches the out-
side world. The Korean and Japanese papers given to
detailed reports of operations have been suppressed ; and
the former editor of the only foreign paper publishing
accounts of actual conditions has now been disposed of
by process of law.
The crime charged against Mr. Bethell by the Japan-
ese authorities was that of publishing in the Korean
edition of the Daily News articles and news calculated to
excite insurrection against the Korean Government. Of
the three articles submitted in evidence against him,
needless to say, none was of a nature that would be con-
sidered seditious in any country outside of Asia. One
was an account of the assassination of Mr. D. W. Stevens,
taken from a Korean paper published in San Francisco,
and which had been inserted in the vernacular edition of
the Korea Daily News without the full knowledge of the
contents being at the disposal of the editor. In connec-
tion with this, it is interesting to note that the real
grievance alleged against Mr. Stevens was that the
Japanese had used him to deceive the Koreans;
the Japanese had promised the Korean Government
that an American would be brought into the
country as their foreign adviser, and, on the score of so
encouraging - a promise and the hope of having - an inde-
pendent foreigner to stand between them and the
Japanese, they acceded to conditions and terms that
otherwise would have been rejected. Then the disap-
pointment was great, and the anger of the whole nation
kindled when it was discovered that after all it was onlv
the legal ad.iserof the Japanese Government itself who
had been given this office in Korea. Another article
objected to was one written by a Korean. It read like a
chapter of the prophets taken from the Old Testament;
but it showed no direct, reference to affairs in Korea.
But the British Judge before whom the case was tried
A QUIET DAY.
It is suggested that the officers of the U.S. Fleet should
be privately invited in twos and threes to the homes of
suburban residents on Sundays, which are entirely free
from official functions.
We don't know what the visitors' idea is, but
our notion of a high, hilarious Sabbath would
be a quiet afternoon on the sofa (the best soja),
and Clara playing “Shall We Gather at the
River," or something like that, till church time.
held that the articles might be calculated to excite
rebellion, and gave a verdict of guilty. '
In the opinion of foreigners out here the most objection-
able feature of the trial was the fact that, although the
accused was brought before a British Court and Judge,
who came for the purpose from Shanghai, he was not
accorded the right of being tried by jury as the law
allows. The excuse given was that it would be difficult
to empanel a jury in a place like Seoul, and that in any
case its members would be prejudiced. There is, how-
ever, no doubt among residents here that a jury would
have given a different verdict. It is also a remarkable
thing that articles in.the Japanese press imply that the
verdict rendered was a foregone conclusion when the
Court set out from Shanghai ; and, furthermore, that the
Judge apologised to Prince Ito for the lightness of the
sentence imposed. It is also noticeable that the verdict
was reached independently of the admission of the
Japanese witnesses that the rebellion was pri-
marily caused by the act of the Japanese au-
thorities in disbanding the native army, and was
in full process long before any of the objectionable
articles appeared. One of the Korean witnesses testified
on the stand that he had been beaten with a stick by a
Japanese officer to extract evidence. This happened in
prison, where he lay for nine months, and was afterwards
deported to a convict island.
An amusing feature of the trial was that the Judge was
called upon to decide the crucial question as to what is
the Government of Korea. Is it Japanese or is it Korean ?
The law was intended to prevent the incitement of sbb-
jects to rebellion against the Government of the countiy
where the accused lived, and the charge could be
brought only by the Government so affected. But in this
case the prisoner was accused of inflaming rebellion against
the Korean Government; whereas the charge was brought
by the Japanese Government. The defendant’s counsel
argued that the Japanese Government could not prose-
cute for an offence committed against another Govern-
ment. This led to the interesting admission, which the
Japanese authorities have heretofore been rather shy of,
namely, that there is really no difference between the
Government of Japan and that of Korea. Annexation
was denied, and an attempt made to show that it was the
Government of Korea under the protection of the
Japanese authorities that was the prosecutor in the case;
but, as the accused was avowedly the friend and sup-
porter of the Korean Government, the theory seemed
absurd. It has for a long while been understood in Asia
that the term “ Korean Government ” is merely a
euphemism for the Japanese Government.


Mrs. J. Stanning, Job’s Gully, Bendigo,
writes I am always pleased to recommend
Chamberlain s Cough Remedy. It has been the
failed ”* ° Ur family for years and has never
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
during the
AMERICAN FLEET FESTIVITIES
SHOULD PAY A VISIT TO
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET,
where one of the most beautiful
DISPLAYS OF WORKS OF ART
in the Southern Hemisphere can be seen.
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Choice Art China Ornaments.
M>west Quotations for Cash.
111-health is what everyone hates,
Good health is the best of all mates ;
To secure it you must
Laxo-Tonic Pills trust;
The best asset we have in the States.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10£d. and Is. 6d.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
A iistrnlia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
We are prepared to take contracts to clear,
land of rabbits on the following terms : We clear a
small paddock as a test and then quote a lump sum
to" clear the whole property. No charges made for
the test. For further particulars apply Tyree
Limited, 314 George Street, Sydney.*
“ From the Old Dog,” by Frank Fox,
is at once a text-book on Australian Radicalism
and a bright, witty, interesting yarn. It deals
with the big and the humorously small issues of
political philosophy, from “Titles” to “White
Australia,” “The Good Man Candidate,” and
“The Disadvantages of Beinsi Too Serious.”
Published by T. C. Lothian, Melbourne. On sale
at booksellers and at this office, post free 2s. 9d,*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
M
U
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
1 Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opp. St.)
Also at Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
FETTERS OF RED TAPE.
The States Governments and private citizens must be
congratulated on the High Court’s far-reaching judgment
m the test case relative to the use of “ union labels.”
The law by which the Federal Parliament championed
these tokens, and elevated them to the rank of trade
marks, is pronounced to be unconstitutional and ultra
vires. In passing, that measure, as also in its more
recent effort to foist the “ New Protection ” on a com-
munity already overburdened with restrictive industrial
legislation, the Commonwealth Parliament indiscreetly
exhibited a zeal to strain its powers to the utmost, with
the result that it greatly exceeded its rights, and thus
early in the Federation’s history has sustained what mav
fairly be termed severe and humiliating defeats.—S A
Register.
Granny : “Squeeze him all you can; the police-
man's tied up.”
A crowd of London stockbrokers com-
plains bitterly about the proposal which has been
advanced in N.S.W. to allow of the transfer of
State securities from the Australian to the London
register. For once The Bulletin feels good
towards the London stockbroker. It is bad to be
in debt, but it is at least better for Australia to be
in debt to its own people than to foreigners, and
for the interest to be spent in Australia than
abroad. There should be every possible facility
for transferring Australian securities from London
to Australia, but there should be no back track
whatsoever.
That closer settlement is the key to the
make-the-railways-pay problem is shown by the
experience of Willaura,
a little Western Vic-
torian township on the
Ararat - Hamilton line.
The railway earnings of
that station in 1902 were
£1169; since then Bent
has bought and settled
two—only two neigh-
boring estates; yet by
1907 the rail way takings
had jumped up to
£15,903. The increase in
the expenditure hasn’t
been anything like pro-
portionate ; for instance,
the interest bill on the
Willaura section of the
line isn’t any heavier to-
day than it was when
the traffic was only one-
fourteenth as heavy.
Consequently, closer
settlement would mean—
(l) Cheaper freights ; (2)
better pay, etc., for railway men ; and (3) the
gradual reduction of the State debt. And the
gradual reduction of the State debt would mean
still further reduced freights, and still further
increased rail way-men’s pay.
That amazing person, Ben Tillet, from
England, is reported to have written to London
Daily Mail stating that in Melbourne “thousands
of men” (there are about 120,000 men in Mel-
bourne) are receiving less than £1 a week; that
thousands more men (this is using up the male
population of the city pretty fast) are out of work
and consequently earning nothing, and that over
100,000 people (out of about 526,000) are in actual
want. Ben is an unconvincing liar, and dashes
figures about altogether too recklessly. Presum-
ably, he has to invent wild sensations like this to
keep himself before the public, else he might
have to go and do some useful work ; but it is a
poor way of making a crust.
Some Broken Hill mining men lately
tempted S. Aus. Premier Price with visions of
becoming a down-South Disraeli. When the
Wade Government wouldn’t put up any of the
money required by the Trust to provide Broken
Hill with a water scheme to supplement the
Swinburne co.’s supply, these Broken Hill people
looked Price up, and reminded him of the glory
that came to the British Premier who carried
through the deal in Suez Canal stock. Then,
having dwelt sufficiently on the Suez Canal and
the glory, the other little scheme.was mentioned ;
and Price was casually asked what S. Aus. and
its-rail ways would feel like if Broken Hill bad >to
shut up for want of water. They had great hopes
for some days that the S. Aus. G-overnment woul’d
ascend to the scratch with a loan of £lOO,OOO or
£150,000; but finally Price decided that it might
be reckoned unfriendly, or something, and so
passed on.
“ I know a number of men in this State
whom I would trust at Government House,” said
Premier Price, of S. Australia, when speaking
to the State Parliament in favor of the appoint-
ment of a local Governor.
“There are some, even in
politics, who could be trusted
todeal uprightly and squarely
with everyone,” he added.
“Why ‘even in politics’? ”
protested Kossuth Duncan,
who is always smelling out
some intention to belittle the
“ dignity ” of the Legislature.
But, though another Duncan
—J. J., leader of the Conser-
vatives in the Council—would
be well in the running if a
State politician were chosen
as Governor, no doubt the
first choice would fall on
Chief Justice Way, if the
Colonial Office agreed to the
proposal of the Price Cabinet
—which, at present, the
Colonial Office shows no sign
of doing. Price says that the
Office wants all Australia to
act in unison in the request
before any alteration is made, but
he asks why South Aus. should be stopped from
making a sensible move simply because some other
State isn’t built the same way.
The much-abused Minimum Wage Law of
the Bent State meets with the cordial approval of
experienced employers now, though those who
only judge it by what the Anti-Sosh papers say
about it, still berate it as “gross interference,”
etc. At the Castlemaine (Vic.) Woollen Co.’s
annual meeting recently, Chairman E. D.
Williams declared the Wages Board to be a
“ great boon, as it fixes the rates and saves the
directors a lot of worry. Every hand in the mill
knows what he or she is entitled to receive. We
have smart girl weavers,' working their
eight hours a day and earning from 355. to
40s. per week.” And the Minimum Wage Law
does more than that; it blocks the un-
scrupulous employer within the State from
harassing the fair employer, while the Lyne tariff
protects the fair employer from the unscrupulous
employer in foreign countries. A fine pair they
make in double harness—High Protection
and Wages Boards, bringing a reasonable return
alike to those who supply the labor and to those
who supply the capital.
The Burrawang (N.S.W.) leases, a parcel
of the one-bob-an-acre improvement leases can-
celled by Justice Owen, were thrown open for
conditional purchase on August 12. As a result
187 persons applied for the 26 blocks into which
the 30,000-acre estate has been divided, and after,
the usual ballot 26 families were duly “settled on
the land.” But for the Lands exposure these
leases would have run on for about another 20
years.
IF IT HADN'T DRIED UP.
ADMIRAL SPERRY: “ How do, ole boss? Jest
called in to see ef you'd let me steam you
down to the Burns-Squires contest .”
The San Francisco Call (Fleet Number)
speaks some words of notable wisdom anent the
Commonwealth. For instance :
The Australians know that the Anglo-Japanese alliance
was not conceived in their interest; that, in fact, the
whole policy of that alliance is directly opposed to the
interest that they hold dearest—to keep Australia a
white man’s country. When they see our mighty battle-
ships under the Southern Cross their own lack of protec-
tion will be brought home to them in a striking way. Of
course, they have the protection of the British navy, or a
part of it, but only on condition that they implicitly
accept Imperial policies that may run counter to their in-
terests. It is nonsense to say that the Australians cannot
build battleships. The experts said the same thing of
the United States when we began to build a modern navy
While he was up North, Customs Minister
Chapman met a plantation on the Mulgrave that
used to employ 400 Kanakas; to-day it supports
55 white families, having been subdivided and
sold since T. Tanna left. Theoretically the poor,
anaemic white “couldn’t work there” ; but Chap-
man saw one gang of nine cane-Cutters each of
whom was cutting his three tons per day, atss. 6d.
per ton. When the Kanaka was deported the
black-labor advocate said he “couldn’t get white
labor, and what he could get was no good.”
To-day the supply is so good that the
can pick and chbose. But thosess families on the
one plantation-that-used-to-be are the best answer
to the Stinking Fish slave-loving Tories.
Whafc a Victorian jury said to Tait after
his train had killed a man at a wholly-unpro-
tected level crossing at North Shore, Geelong (it
also said the damages would be £1500): —
Considering the many obstructions on the road leading
to the crossing, and the fact that the gates have been dis-
pensed with, that the narrow crossing is still retained,
that the curve of the railway line approaching the said
crossing obscures the view, that at Christmas time the
North Shore is a favorite resort for many people, and
that a fast express train runs over such a dangerous cross-
ing, the Railway Commissioners involve, great risks to
the public safety. >
Which was pretty severe; but presumably Tait
(of the Sunshine accident) will still go on the
cheap and easy Canadian smash of his way, and
pay no heed.
ONE BLOOD, ONE BEER, ONE JIM-JAM.
Commander Pethebridge was commissioned to find out
what drinks the Admiral preferred that his men should be
regaled upon, and he yesterday cabled Admiral Sperry’s
reply. It was
“Whatever are good enough for Australians are good
enough for Americans.”
Victoria’s Premier Bent hasn’t done much
this session beyond mailing promises and. moving,
adjournments—he even adjourned his own Land
Valuation Bill one day when a majority of the
House was quite willing to go on—and now he has
adjourned the sittings for over three weeks for the
Fleet celebrations, though the Fleet will only
pervade the Cabbage waters for seven days. This
delay is the more harassing because a Trespass by
Cattle Prevention Bill was to. come on, and Vic-
toria was simply pining to have details of that
epoch-marking measure.
Premier Jacky Evans, of Tasmania, has
intimated that he is going to fight for a land-tax.
Nobody saw him wink at the House of Dodery ;
but he probably did. It is necessary therefore
for Premier Jacky to also intimate what he is
prepared to do to the House of Dodery in case it
flings his land-tax. downstairs in the "well-known
Dodery manner.
It was sworn in evidence in the Victorian
Supreme Court lately that, “in consequence of
the heavy expenditure in connection with the
Sunshine railway - accident, increments to em-
ployees this year have been stopped.” The beauty
of that policy is that it only affects the lower-paid
servants. Tait and the other chiefs don’t work on
the increment plan, and consequently stand to
lose nothing by this brilliant idea for putting
things square.
It was mentioned in a casual way, the
other night in N.S.W. Assembly, that the Barren
•Tack reservoir is the second largest in the world ;
the great Assouan dam in Egypt beating it by a
head. It is a curious instance of the little faith
Australians have in their own works—they are
vain enough about the/ size of their country, and
about its natural products, but concerning manu-
factures and the things that people make with
their own hands they are very humble—that
N.S.W. should have put up almost a world’s
record in dam-building and been practically un-
aware of the fact. A work of that size in the
United States would have been whooped up all
over the earth, and the eagle would have sat on
the hillside while it was being built, and screamed
all the time, except at meals.
Those cadging Vic. shire councils that
lately prevailed on the Government to buy wire-
netting at cut rates, so that they might hand it on
to ; the farmer on long terms (the Bent Govern-
ment doesn’t supply spray pumps to the fruit-
grower on such terms, though they are just as
necessary to him), are shuffling out of their part
of the bargain now that Bent has let the contracts
for the netting. These councils know what it is
to collect money from the landowner; so, though
they want the netting as badly as ever, they
desire the Government to tackle the job of collect-
ing the cash. And when the Government tries
it, of course, the local member will be appealed to
and asked to persuade thll State to write off the
bill as a bad debt.
Maoriland is so full of recklessness and
borrowed money these days that it hardly knows
how to get rid of its wealth. It has voluntarily
added £60,000 a year to its contribution to the
British navy, and Premier Ward has become an
enthusiastic advocate of penny-a-word cablegrams
throughout the Empire—a scheme which, if it is
carried out, will swallow another big subsidy.
Anybody with a new, flashy imperial scheme for
the shovelling out of money can’t do better these
times than address his letter M J. Ward, Wel-
lington.”
THE “CHEAPLY-NOURISHED” BRITISH WORKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The amusing fact that British consumers of Australian
butter are paying little more than half the famine price
now demanded here affords a glimpse of the daily blessing
that the Freetrade policy is to the British people. They
live on the abundance of the whole earth. They get the. best
of food, because it is untaxed and purchased in a market
which is the world’s splendid example of unrestricted
international competition. In no other country in the
Northern Hemisphere are the wage-earning classes so
variously, amply , and cheaply nourished as they are in
Great Britain.—Sydney Telegraph (6/8/’08).
The cheaply-nourished workman drops his hammer with
a bang
As through the works the dinner-bell re-echoes with a
clang.
And as he probes the pockets of his greasy corduroys
For the wherewithal to purchase the “abundance” he
enjoys,
His brow, all wet with grimy sweat, is puckered with a
frown,
When careful search produces but a well-worn British
“brown.”
He hears his shop-mates calling out their orders to the
boy—
Whose work it is to fetch “ the best of food ” they all
enjoy.
And it’s here —“A Yarmouth bloater I” and it’s there—
“ An ounce o’ cheese ! ”
“ A pair o’ boiled sheep’s trotters ! ” and “ A saveloy and
peas! ”
But the workman who is gazing, with expression rather
grim,
At his solitary penny fears such feasts are not for him.
Last Saturday his thirty bob was riotously spent
In luxuries like children’s boots, and food, and clothes,
and rent.
And Friday is a fasting-day for workmen who disdain
To make their “ ample wage ” suffice till pay-day comes
again.
And so he shakes his head and says, “No order, Bill,
I’m broke ;
I’ll take a drink o’ water, and digest it with a smoke.”
But Billie, with his comprehensive knowledge of the
Town,
Has a better understanding of the value of a brown.
He knows the shops that cater for the worker and his
wage,
And proffers his opinion with the wisdom of his age.
“ Gor blimey, wotcher giviu’ us! You take a tip
from me !
’Ave a farden’s worf o’ shugar, an’ a farden’s worf o’ tea—
“A' ‘ fadge ’ ’ill buy a ha’p’ny loaf—it’s them wot’s stale,
I mean—
An! the other bloomin’ farden buys yer bloomin’
margerine.”
So, Billie goeth forth to fetch their “dinners” on his
tray—
And dines himself upon the scraps he “pinches” on
the way.
And thus the British working man—well fed and un-
dismayed—
Enjoys the “ daily blessings ” of competitive Freetrade.
N.S.W.
CRIPPS CLARH.
RHEUMATISM CURED, TO STAY CURED.
What Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Did For a
Great Sufferer.
Suffered Acutely for Years, Trying All
Manner of Remedies Until She Got the
Right One—lt Drove the Complaint Out
of Her System.
Rheumatism cured : not merely eased but clear-
ed right out of the system. That’s what Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have done for a host of Aus-
tralian rheumatic sufferers. Some things may
ease the pain for a time, but there can’t be any
real cure until the acid in the blood, that causes
the swollen, tender joints, is driven out. It’s in
the blood then, so can only be cured through
the blood.
People of common sense, who really want to be
rid of their rheumatism, will follow with eager
interest every word spoken by Mrs. Martha Price,
16 Church Street, Pyrmont, Sydney. She tried
all manner of ways to cure her rheumatism, yet
for years she continued to suffer pain. At last
she tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills and so struck
the right way. By acting in a direct manner on
her blood they drove out all the rheumatic poison
that was lurking in her system. Ever since, she
has not known what rheumatism is. Other suf-
ferers can benefit in the same way through Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. They drive rheumatism
out of the blood.
“ Pretty well all my life I was subject to rheu-
matism, and I had a very bad turn of it six years
ago,” said Mrs. Price. “ All my body got affect-
ed, particularly my arms and. legs. My finger
joints swelled and got so knotted that my hands
were quite useless, and my ankles were all puffed
up. 1 was helpless and unable to move in bed
unless helped—l had a rope provided that I could
pull myself up on. I could only sleep by taking
medicine from the doctor, otherwise I would
never close my eyes. The pains burned and gnaw-
ed till I was nearly distracted. I had fomenta-
tions of turpentine and different liniments, but all
to no purpose. For three months I was just help-
less with the agony. Besides the rheumatism I
got sciatica in my left hip. I couldn’t move my
leg. At last I started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
and they did me a vast amount of good. I fancied
I was better after the first few doses. As I kept
on with them the pains gradually lessened and
my joints got more supple, so that I could take
hold of any article I wanted to with freedom.
My fingers got less inflamed and tender. Formerly
I couldn’t bear anyone near me, I was in such
pain. Before many weeks I could move fairly
freely, and as I went on with the course the pain
gradually ebbed away altogether, and I was at
last entirely free. I was able to sleep well, and
walk with perfect ease. To-day my health is very
good indeed.”
If you are in doubt about your own case, write
for hints as to diet, etc., to The Dr. Williams’
Medicine Go. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney. From
that address you can also order by mail the
genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills—2s. 9d- a box,
six boxes 15s. 3d., post free.


4 mu fe
!i "• '. 'I ' I''! il
W
SOLE AGENTS s
These Highly Artistic Pianos
have been proving' their
excellence in Australia for
the past 40 Years.
To such good purpose have
they done it, that we find it
difficult to Keep pace with
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are real beauties,
there being' a poetry in their
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, whilst their case*
worß is very chaste.
As to their durability, we
cannot speaß too highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full g'uarantee.
"We sell these Pianos for
cash or on easy terms, and
our Catalogues are yours
for the ashing.
w. H. PALING <a CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
«*•
ailing &
:x*€> to,y -
eare
Manufacturers & Designers
of Furniture, Fitments Cr
JY&ntefpieces.
All the Latest Machines are installed In
Our New & Modern Factory.
JyfecZ 3/572 /o guise /be bohsesf Prices
ksM /be bfax/mu/n Standard o//fiy/i C/ass Work
ESTIMATES & DESIGNS FREE OF CHARGE.
BUCKLEY Cr NUNN LT?
MELBOURNE.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing' One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25j-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
NEW EDISON
RECORDS
NOW READY.
There are some good selections in
the new lists just published. Those
from America are the June numbers
and are well worth your attention.
In the British selections for March
you will find a nice variety, many of
which will please you.
Why not write for lists or call on
your nearest dealer ? He will be
glad to let you hear some of them.
With an Edison Phonograph and
a collection of records you will be
able to spend many happy hours in
your spare time.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. 8., 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Y. J. Daleys “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. ’ Post
free from BPLr.RTmofflcP a,
FOR MOST WHEAT and BEST SAMPLE.
THE “ SUNSHINE ” HARVESTER.
FOR CLEAN CUTTING and PERFECT SHEAFING
THE “ ALBION ” BINDER.
Drills, Ploughs, Cultivators, Horseworks,Chaffcutters
Mowers, Hay Rakes, Gates, Trucks, Bag Leaders, etc,
Ask for Ulus. Catalog U 10 —Farm Implements
(Posted gratis on request)
SHOW Spencer St., Melbourne
ROOMS* 42 Engine Street, Sydney
' 56 Nth. Terrace, Adelaide
state Sandover & Co., Perth. W.A.
agencies : Mott & Barlow, Toowoomba Q.
H. V. M C KAY
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS
HEA and F wo R ks: SUNSHINE
To Users of Acetylene
Gas.
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN CSb CO. Ltd,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office i 214


R. Eastern, Mount Lyell Standard,
Queenstown, Tas., recently said:—“l use
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in my own family
when the children have colds, and find it
invaluable.”*
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO. OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure an
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protrudin
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. '2s. 3d.
60
Mrs. S. Bennetto, Lindisfarne, Tas.,
Writes:—“Having successfully used Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy in my own family, I have
the greatest pleasure in recommending it to my
friends.”*
The second annual 100-miles Victorian Road
Race, last Saturday week, proved that, however dead the
track branch of wheeling may be, road racing is more
popular than ever. No less than 218 starters struggled
round the triangular course from Essendon to Lancefield,
across to Carlsruhe, and back to Essendon via Woodend
and Keilor. The weather was ideal, and all the conditions
were favorable to fast time. The only fly in the amber
was the strip of new road metal on the first leg of the
triangle, and it cut up the tyres of a few of the unwary
ones. The winner, P. Jenkins, who rode a Dunlop-shod
Morton cycle fitted with 61- cranks and 84 gear, cut
out the run in shrs. 23min. 40sec., which was good.
J. McDonald, of Rutherglen, established the fastest time,
whizzing over the distance in shrs. 12min. 31sec. The
first, second, third and fastest time winners were all
helped on by the fact that they used Dunlop tyres.*
MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
Who Were Always Ailing Praise Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Their
Speedy and Permanent Relief.
Mrs. Parker, of 243 Palmer Street, Darling-
hurst, Svdney, who for some years resided at
Orange and Forbes, states that for years her
daughter and herself were always ailing, martyrs
to indigestion and all its attendant evils, until
persuaded to take a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, which brought speedy and permanent
relief
TGt
Mrs. Parker.
(Prom a photo.)
“My daughter suffered
severely from biliousness
and constipation,” she
states, “ and used to be a
martyr to dyspepsia until
commencing to take Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
from which she obtained so
much relief that for some
time past she has wished me
to send you a testimonial
giving you particulars of my
own experience as well.
Before taking Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills my
daughter and myself were
always ailing. I used to
suffer badly with my head
and indigestion, but Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills brought me permanent relief, and during the
change of life they were the only medicine that
did me any good. I continued their use, and can
assure you that I was greatly benefited, and I
now feel as well as ever I did. I use the pills now
and again just to rectify the system, and heartily
recommend this remedy to all who do not enjoy
good health.”
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Mclntosh, who is the outward and visible
sign of Sports and Amusements, Limited, is a diplomatist.
When letters began to appear in the press denouncing
the brutality of boxing, etc., the Mclntosh, w 7 ho had
already inaugurated a “Ladies’ Day,” exclaimed, “By
thunder, w r e must have a Clergy’s Day,” and straightway
he issued invitations to all and sundry engaged in sky-
pilotage. At time of writing about 30 had accepted, and
unless something went wrong with the works they saw
Tommy, the champion, going through his paces on
Wednesday. Ever since the Ladies’ Day shoals of applica-
tions have been received from ladies for tickets to see the
actual scrap itself. But the Mclntosh, who is a monument
of modesty, blushfully keeps both feet down hard, and
refuses to even think of ladies being present.
* * * *
Squires is training at Lake Toronto, and is
reported to be in excellent fettle, skipping like the young
ram on the mountains. His friends are enthusiastically
declaring that the bacon is in sight. Thomas, the boss,
is also in splendid fettle, barring a slight wrench to the
muscles of his left arm, which should be all right
long before the battle —besides it is his right- arm
with which he makes trouble —and he is just as con-
fident that the pork will remain in its present
quarters. On the Friday after the Burns-Squires
disturbance, Russell and Felix will fight for the champion-
ship of Australia. Russell was originally to have been
sent against Lang, but fell sick; so Griffin was substi-
tuted, and made a great fight of it. The winner will be
put up against Lang, and, if he knocks out the Mel-
bournian, Bill may, perhaps, be allowed the cr >wning
honor and glory of being- smitten by the great Thomas
himself. And the glory of being put to sleep by Tommy
is a thing that makes the average pug. grow dizzy. In
ohe meantime, Terrible Tiny wants a match.
* * *■ *
The decision of the great Adolphus of Brighton
to refuse Sports and Amusements, Limited, permission to
hold glove contests on ground controlled by the Govern-
ment will not deprive the Melbourne crowd of its feast of
pug. The Mclntosh is erecting a Stadium, an exact
counterpart of that of Sydney excepting that it will hold
1500 more people, in the City Road, South Melbourne.
Like the Svdney Gladiatorium, it will be lit with electric
light, connected with telephones, and have all the up-to-
date luxuries of civilisation, including its own mortuary.
The Sydney Stadium is being rushed along at a great
pace. All the daily papers have their own private tele-
phones laid on, there will be private rooms for writers, a
room for the convenience of photographers, and generally
all the luxuries that Sardanapalus would have liked to
have, but didn’t.
“ Snell ” : The feature of the crowded reception
to Tommy Burns in Melbourne that struck me most
forcibly was the bald crowns of the accumulated sports.
A large room was packed tight with pugs, pressmen,
politicians and prominent supporters of various games,
and at first glance there seemed a complete absence
of top-dressing. On closer inspection, however,
a head of hair was discoverable here and there.
Quite a marked preponderance of pugs are bald at 30.
What is the peculiarity of the game that leads to this
lamentable scarcity ? It cannot be due to excesses of
training, because the failure of the crop extends to sup-
porters and hangers-on. I cannot understand why the
man who smites a piano violently in the teeth should be
a shaggy curiosity while the artist who smites his fellow
man in the same place with the same implement should,
in eight cases out of ten, be in the condition of Old Uncle
Ned, who “had no hair on the top of his head, in the
place where the wool ought to grow-o-o.”
Cheerful item from an Amurkan paper : “Paris,
France, is just now the centre of interest to pugilists all
over the world. You may be surprised to know that Sam
McVey, the big Los Angeles negro, is the Parisians’ fight-
ing idol, and as soon as Burns got to Paris he was pes-
tered to death with challenges from McVey and his fol-
lowers. Everybody in town is crazy over McVey. They
never saw anything else as big and ugly. You ought to
see that chap. He’s got clothes that would make a Sixth-
avenue darkey dude look like a ragpicker. Last time I
saw him he wore a cream-colored suit that looked like
silk—sort of a pyjama rig. He goes to fights in a carriage,
with a dress suit on and a big bouquet in his hand. They
say Society has taken him up, and he is taken around to
dinners in the swell houses, and let sit at the table with-
out putting a muzzle or a chain on him. What a hot
card Lil Arthur Johnson will be when he hits the Rue de
la Paix 1 ”
Saturday’s Vic. League football collisions were
satisfactory in that they put an end to much of the
weariful discussions as to which teams might or might
not arrive if certain other contingencies did or did not
transpire. As matters stand in the League, Carlton
(with a “ right of challenge”), Essendon, St. Kilda, and
the winner of the South v. ’Wood encounter on Septem-
ber 5, will comprise the semi-final quartette ; the others
will have the joy of playing on that day just for amuse-
ment, and will thereafter retire into seclusion till next
season. Saturday’s discussion between Melbourne and
’Wood was adorned with the presence of sundry inter-
state ’bailers, Excellency Carmichael, and sub-Excel-
lenc.v Madden ; also, a dainty assemblage of M.C.C.
“lady friends,” who passionately besought the
lily-white amateurs to do things and get into
the semi-finals. It was but a forlorn hope at
best and necessitated South’s being defeated twice,
and even the first half of the forlorn hope turned
out to be a vain thing and alost cause and a mere flapping
of the wind against a telegraph wire. The Red Legs
wired in with vigor the first half and totted up 28 points
to ’Wood’s 20, but they couldn’t last the pace, and at
three-quarter time it was apparent they were done. The
Magpies were a point ahead then, and in the last quarter
they had things all their own way, finishing with 45 points
to Melbourne’s 32. Out on South’s ground the locals
were fighting for existence against the mighty Essendon,
and they did it to such purpose that they won
by six points, though, Heaven knows, they shouldn’t
have. The ’Dons were minus three regular players
and Skinner’s Hirelings were even worse off, but
the heavyweights of both sides were fit and well and their
concussions were frequent and notable. First quarter
saw South score a goal and two behinds to Essendon’s
five behinds, which was ridiculous. Next quarter Essen-
don managed to sneak a goal and four more behinds,
while South added one of each, leaving the teams 15 all.
The absurd caper was repeated through the second half,
the “same old” having all the best of the play and
notching behinds with suspicious regularity. Skinner’s
pets weren’t a shining example in the matter of kicking ;
still they were better than the ’Dons, and wound up
with five goals eight behinds to three goals 14 behinds.
’Varsity, which, were South and ’Wood beaten, had a
chance about equal to that of a small, lame devil at the
back of Gehenna, encountered Geelong and piled up all the
points it could lay its feet upon, finishing with 96 to 44 ; but
as both South and’Wood won, all this toil on the Students’
part availed nothing. St. Kilda passed the time of day to
’Roy, and incidentally kept itself a few points in the lead
throughout the discussion —which ended with Saints 31
to Roy’s 22—and Oarlton had a like casual but masterful
argument with Richmond —48 points standing to its name
at the finish against Richmond’s 41. The Jubilee Year of
Australian football having now arrived, the lusty men
will rest from their labors for a fortnight, as enjoined in
the Good Book.
* • • *
The only Association match of note was that
between the regrettable Ports and Brunswick. The lat-
ter’s defeat meant supersession in the final four by P’ran.
Knowing this the brickies went at it systematically, and
though the uproarious Harbor men started with a rush
and gained a slight lead, the mathematical regu-
larity with which the Northerners raised their score
stressed the fact that the Port men had bumped against
something they didn’t understand. Brunswick’s scores
at the quarters were 1 goal 1 behind ; 5 goals 5 behinds ;
9 goals 9 behinds; 15 goals 15 behinds ; which was
beautifully symmetrical and orderly, and meant 105 points.
Ports could raise but 48. The collision of ’Scray and ’Town
was of moment insomuch that a vic’tory to the latter
meant that it would encounter Brunswick in the semi-
finals in place of ’Scray itself; but ’Scray would rather
meet ’Town twice than Essendon once in the latter’s pre-
sent condition, wherefore it played its darnedest. It was
a hefty struggle and a willing, and at no time had
either team more than a goal advantage. The last
quarter saw the gaudiest struggle yet witnessed on the
seaside ground this season ; but a strong umpiie
held the strings, and the barrackers behaved them-
selves. In the last few minutes ’Scray equalised
the scores with a goal, and then forced a behind
just as the bell rang, leaving it with 38 points to 37.
Brighton put up a game finish against P’ran, losing only
by 54 points to 57 ; Essendon piled up 99 to Northcote’s
12 ; and the incompetent North escaped the disgrace of
being the tail joint of the Ass. by beating Preston with
48 to 45. ’Scray, Essendon, ’Town, and Brunswick will pre-
sently play off for the premiership, while P’ran, Brighton,
Ports, Preston, North, and ’Cote will retire from active
life. Of the new clubs, Brighton, ex-Metropolitan Asso-
ciation, has done well, but Northcote, ex-Junior Associa-
tion, is a disappointment and a disaster ; also, its name is
Mud, though not such turgid mud as Port’s.
Although the Anglo-Welsh Rugby team man-
aged to beat the Metropolitan team at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday, the victory did not improve its
reputation nor increase its popularity. Footballers in the
audience almost foamed with fury at the off-side play, and
made humorous displays of themselves, while the bill
hooted with all its heart and soul. For off-side work and
forward passing were the order of the day. The hill is a
picturesque sight when it rises to express its candid
opinion of players or referee. R cum bent, it is a sea of
faces flecked over with black and colored blots which rep-
resent hats. When it rises it is a sudden upheaval of
a series of waves, and on the top of every wave a long
row of hats. One doesn’t realise what an important part
of the human economy the hat is till he has seen the
Sydney Cricket Ground’s collective hat suddenly surge
skyward in indignation. But to return to the leather —
it was an enjoyable game to watch. Both sides were out
to win, and played a strenuous game in good spirit, and
although hard knocks were given on both sides there
were remarkably few cases of men being laid out. The
Metropolitan team, naturally, lacked combination, and be-
ing up against a team shat had been through Maoriland to-
gether, it had, on paper, no particular hope. But it played
up magnificently, its forwards performing with great vim,
and its three-quarter line showing much dash. Burton,
of Eastern Suburbs, played the game of his career up to
date. Matthews and Corbett at half were brilliant;
Corbett, although only a stripling, bids fair to take
Messenger’s place in the Suburbs. His dash is
phenomenal, and his tendency to be wherever danger
threatens —which some scribes have described as
“a dangerous habit of being out of his place” ;
—shows him to be a player of discernment and initiative.
The “out-of-his-place ” gibe need not worry Corbett;
the same papers said the same things about Messenger, !
and it was not till English crowds arose and howled
adoration at the mighty one that the press of his own city
realised that he is about the best three-quarter Sydney
has produced, and certainly far and away the best on
deck at the present time- Gibbs —he of the loud laugh—
who operated on the left wing of the three-quarter line,
played a brilliant game for the invaders. Only once did
writer see him make a mistake. He swooped for
openings in a wonderful manner—he saw them coming
in fact ; and when they arrived suddenly he was there to
take time by the forelock and grip opportunity by its
back hair. The far-famed, much-paragraphed Ponty
Jones is a humorist, and his waggly run is a shrieking
thing—but he gets there with much persistency. The
trouble is that the team consists of about nine splendid
workers and six drones —gentlemen who seem to labor
under the impression that they are spectators who have
been given special permission to follow the game on the
field, and to interfere when they feel that way.
The British team introduced an unintentional
show into Saturday’s game, and thereby brightened it
up considerably. A prancing Welshman seized the bail
and started for the Sydney line. A Sydney man gripped
him by the back of the pants, just below the waistband.
Rip, and the Cymrian stood naked in the wind while the
game went scurrying across the field. The man who had
stripped him dropped the remnants and fled after the
ball, and the naked player stood alone in the sun-
light trying to drape his rags around him while about
■ 28,000 people cheered vociferously. The draping was no
good, for pants do not, even under the most torn circum-
stances, lend themselves to classic effects. Then the
British closed round him, as the Romans did around Tar-
quin, and he donned a new pair.
So far the Anglo-Welsh team has had a
triumphant progress in Sydney. It has beaten New South
Wales twice, by three and eight to nil, and on Saturday
it downed the Metropolis by 16 to 13. The Western
District beat it at Bathurst by ,15 to 10, and did it
in a workmanlike manner. The victory on Satur-
day was gained by a try scored from a very illegal com-
bination. The ball was picked up by a man who was off-
side, and who, when tackled, passed forward. It ought
to have been disallowed, but it made no difference.
Sydney had previously been allowed a try which was
quite unconstitutional, and the two illegalities balanced
one another.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League will have to think out
some new form of entertainment if the public persists
in staying away from its matches at the present
rate. Fortunately for that body the season is.
drawing to a close, the semi-finals having been played
off last Saturday; and during the summer Messrs.
Giltinan, Trumper, Hoyle and co. should be able to
elaborate some features to draw the public. Writer
would suggest that it get George Reid to dress in tights
and act as referee. That would fetch' the crowd every
time.
. .* ■* * *
The position in the League first-grade football
competition at present is that Eastern Suburbs and South
Sydney are together in front with 20 points each. Glebe
has 16, North Sydney 14, Newcastle 10, and the' rest
nothing worth mentioning. On Saturday Eastern
Suburbs downed North Sydney by 23 to 10 ; and South
Sydney 7 walloped Glebe by 16 to three. Play all round
was uninteresting, the teams having been shorn of their
best players to make up the team that has started to
invade Britain as Julius Caesar did.
*.* ♦ *
The Soccer struggle for the Gardiner Cup is
now approaching its end along the road where Northern
Suburbs, Oorrimal, Woonona, Garden Island, Sydney,
Helensburgh, Western Suburbs, Ultimo and Broadmeadow
lie dead. Balmain and Granville are not sure whether
they are dead or not, and the definitely 7 live teams left in
are Pyrmont, Adamstown and Glebe. But for the
draw between Balmain and Granville, the semi-
finals would now be in progress. On Saturday,
the present holder of the cup, Broadmeadow,
met Glebe at Epping ground, and after a tall struggle, in
which Broadmeadow put up a big fight against great odds,
the present holder went down by four goals to one.
Adamstown overthrew Ultimo by 7 three to one in a rough
and tumble, in which play was frequently 7 stopped till
the fragments of the players were removed and sewn
together. Balmain went out to Cly'de to wipe out the
draw with Granville, but to the amazement of everyone
the game ended in a second draw without either side
drawing blood in the shape of a goal.
The N.S.W. Rugby League’s team left for
England on Saturday in a jovial mood. The Northern
Union has guaranteed £3OOO, so there is no danger of the
team having to live in a fourpenny establishment during
the rampage through England. The ream is a money-
making concern pure and simple, just the same as an
Australian XI. in the olden time. It first annexes 70 per
cent, of the gross takings, out of which it will pay its
bills, and the balance will be divided equally between the
34 tourists and Manager Giltinan. It is whispered that
some of the players have gone on terms, which, if the
statement is true, means that financially the team con-
sists of sheep and goats. The local League is lending its
name, but takes no monetary responsibility.
* * * *
The presence of two Australian Rugby teams in
England simultaneously under different flags is regarded
by 7 some as likely to provoke a wordy warfare in British
papers. The League is said to hold certain agreements
with sundry Union players, in which agreements those
gentlemen have contracted to do certain things. The
Union probed the matter deeply, but could find nothing
very solid, and the chances are there will be no soiled
linen purified in public.
The management of the Melbourne ’Varsity
Club will startle footballers when the season’s expenses
are totalled. The students are controlled by strict ama-
teur laws, so the £9O for boots and the £49 19s. 9Jd. for
shaving soap will be absent from their balance-sheet. The
expenses of the book-chewers’ team amounts to less than
a fiver a week. It includes trainers’ wages, oranges, and
several bags of peanuts, which are dealt out at half time.
* * * *
The Maori team which came to Australia under
the auspices of the N.S.W. Rugby League has managed
to cover that body 7 with a fairly thick sediment of ridi-
cule. The first trouble arose when somebody got an
injunction restraining the League paying over to the
Maoris any 7 of the proceeds of the matches played in
N.S.W. The injunction, of course, being a mere
State affair, did not affect the Queensland
matches, and the Maoris went to Brisbane,
and played both there and at Warwick. When
the crowd got back to Sydney it began to howl for money.
It couldn’t pay its way ; and. when it found that the
League couldn’t give it any money, it, in the Maori
fashion, jumped to the conclusion that the League
wouldn’t. So it went on strike, and on a Saturday morn-
ing, too. The League fell in with a loud splash, as the
people who wandered out to the Agricultural Ground to
see the match cursed it for not having let it know, quite
regardless of the fact that the League had posted notices
all over the city. At first the Maoris announced that
they were financially independent, and then it was stated
that they were stranded. A eitizens’ committee was
formed to work up a match to raise enough to pay their
board bill and send them home. And then the
League made a fool of itself by refusing to allow
any League players to take part in the game,
which was a failure. Only about 1000 people were
there. Then lots of people cursed the League executive
as a vindictive gang, and that body realised it
had made a bad move, A second deputation waited on
it, and it said it would promote a match. Then it found
that the Maoris had approached Sports and Amusements,
Limited, and that so roused the League gorge that it
again decided it would allow no League players to help
the brown brethren. The humorous part of the business
is that Victor Trumper is one of the Executive, and the
position he takes up now as a League official is very
different from the one he took up as a player when he
was temporarily, out of authorised cricket for what the
N.S.W. Association considered bad-faith in his dealings
with his governing body.
* * * *
The downfall of the Napier car in the recent
test with Nazzaro in a Fiat at Brooklands, was a great
| shock to the English motoring world ; but the Napier car
redeemed its character and wiped the floor-with its rivals
in the August meeting at Brooklands, and set up a new
world’s record at the same time. It was a 30-mile run,
and the 90-h.p. car which broke down while running
against Nazzaro, after gaining 200yds, on him in the first
;two laps, got over the distance at the dizzy speed of 101 J
miles per hour. The Dunlop Rubber Co., which keeps
a sharp nose with which to smell at all these affairs,
declares that this is easily the world’s best exhibition
of sustained speed. The second car was the German
Mercedes of 75 h.p., which was 65yds. behind the Napier
when it bolted over the line. In the previous contest
Nazzaro, in his desperate effort to overtake the flying
Napier, travelled the third lap at 12D6 miles per hour,
but he could only average 94J miles per hour for the
whole run. So Newton’s recent performance against the
Mercedes beat Nazzaro’s effort out of sight. Here are
some of the world’s best figures at this fascinating but
useless game:—
Fastest authenticated mile—
F. Marriot, in a Stanley steam car, at Florida
Beach (U.S.A.), straight-away Course, .28 l-ssec.,
equal to 127’6 miles per hour.
Fastest run by petrol-driven car—
Demegot’s two miles in 68 4-ssec. (equal to 122 - 4
miles per hour), in a Darracq, straight-away
course, on Florida Beach.
World’s record for one hour on Brooklands Course—
W. T. Olifford-Earp’s 76 miles 1537yds.
Driving at these high speeds has, in the majority
of cases, anything but a beneficial effect on the men who
do it. The description by Nazzaro was that he sat still in
the car and the universe went roaring past, and all he
had to do was to keep the machine’s head straight for the
dimly seen line in the whirling mass of things that
marked the track. A man who went through an earth-
quake every day of his life would soon become a nervous
wreck ; and that is practically the effect. The nerves are
worked up by the dizzy speed into such a state of exalta-
tion that immediately the speed drops the driver is
smitten with depression ; and the result is that a large
majority of speeddrivers are, in their off hours, confirmed
druggers. A good dope brings high prices among speed
drivers.
According to the mail reports, Lautenschlager’s
win of the Grand Prix was a combination of good driving
and better luck. Hemery, who drove the Benz car, also
a German make, was leading' the field, when a stone flew
up and broke bis goggles and buried a piece of glass in
flis eye. In spite of his agony the German stuck grimly
to his wheel, but for a while he was mot able to see pro-
perlv, and while he recovered his nerve and got accus-
tomed to steering by the sight of one eye only, Lauten-
schlager roared past and won, with Hemery a good
second. The glass was extracted by a surgeon imme-
diately the race finished, and the eye was saved. Th(
winning car averaged 68 9 miles per hour; the second did
67'4 miles.
* * * *
The Continental Road Cycle Race, from
Bathurst to Sydney, on Saturday, saw 95 starters (out of
126 accept rs), which is a record for the race. The tussle
was under the auspices of the League of Wheelmen, and
was blessed with ideal weather. The starting occupied
from 6.55 to 8.15, and among those who streaked away
was Oakes, the one-armed wheeler. A few miles out the
riders were stampeded by mobs of horses, which,
with tails up and manes flying, charged through
the mass of cyclists, knocking several over and
puncturing one man’s tyre. Owing to the grim
persistency with which the Dunlop Rubber Co. pursued
several tack sprinklers last season there was a complete
and delightful absence of tinware along the road. Barring
the demonstration of the horses, the race was devoid of
dangerous trimmings, and the riders toiled up the hills
and switchbacked down them, and struggled along
through occasional clouds of dust, and grabbed their
refreshments at the appointed places, and sighed for
Sydney. At Penrith T. Larcombe, of Goulburn, one of
the scratch men, led the field, closely followed by Lady-
man, Summers and McDonald. At Parramatta, A. S.
Turner, who started with 48 minutes handicap, had dis-
placed Larcombe, who had also given place to Hayes and
Alpin. Turner was never overtaken, and rode home, fol-
lowed bv Patterson, Hyslop and Honeyman. Larcombe
dropped back to 14th, but nevertheless made the fastest
time. He came home in 7 hours 53min. 40sec.
Turner, it will be remembered, ran sixth in last year’s
Goulburn to Sydney race.
* * * *
Although big Ben Thoroughgood was anxious
to row Pearce on the Parramatta, his backers refused to
allow him to row anywhere but on the Raymond Terrace
course of the Hunter River (N.S.W.). Mr. Buchanan,
who was backing Pearce, refused to put up money for a
race there, as he considered the scullers would not make
enough gate on the Hunter to get any profit out of the
tussle, so the match is off, to the regret of everybody.
For Pearce and Thoroughgood would have put up a very
exciting struggle.
This refusal leaves Thoroughgood in undisputed
possession of the championship of Australia, as there is
at present no one afloat save Pearce who has any
chance of beating him. The decision is rough on
Thoroughgood, a good sculler, who has never had the
chance to do very much. Of course, after the Arnst-
Webb match, he can challenge the winner, but at present
there are few who seriously consider he has a show against
either of the Maorilanders. So at present he sits on his
sheet of sluggish water, monarch of all he surveys, with
never a chance of anyone coming along to be picked
clean.
* * *
Webb’s trainer, bight Denny Barnett, threatens
to write a book and fling it in the face of the world under
the title of “How I Trained the Champion.” But,
curiously enough, he will not perpetrate the deed till after
the match with Arnst, from which it can be assumed
there is at least one person in Australasia who has no
doubt how that race will end. If Arnst wins, Denny will
have to get a new title.
The N.S.W. five-mile cross-country champion-
ship has been changed from Canterbury to Victoria Park
racecourse. The distance has been cut up into a mile
and a half on the course, and three and a half over sand-
hills, fences, scrub and such other obstacles as can be
inconveniently 7, put in the way. The soil to be traversed
is very heavy, and the wearying journey will certainly
find any 7 punctured spot in the windbag of the athlete.
Inter-State athletes w 7 ould therefore do well to plough
through sand for a while, and tear the muscles about ;
hard, well-rounded legs are of no use in slogging through
a shifting substance that is inches deep.
Queensland cross-country champion J. Ryan,
who has tacked the title to his belt for the past three
years in succession, will struggle with a host of inter-
state athletes to annex the N.S.W. cross-country
championship on September 12. Ry 7 an, however, is
credited with having passed 38 years on earth. That,
amounts to old age on the running track, and the legs of
Youth generally get there first.
* * *
Barring miracles, Hackenschmidt will wrestle
no more. The mighty one recently underwent an oper-
ation for that “housemaid’s knee on the elbow"
which has troubled him so long. The result was
startling. Hack has practically lost all power in the
hand, and two of the fingers are said to be quite para-
lysed. So Frank Gotch, who is in England to redeem his
character, will go back to Amurka with his character as
unredeemed as ever.
* * * *
Jim Jeffries, ex-champion of the world, is now
running “a club,” otherwise a bashing palace, in San
Francisco.
THE ODDS AGAINST HIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The great steel ships came trailing in
Like floating castles on the wave.
Amid the brass bands’ joyous din,
Whoops for our Yankee kith and kin,
And females cheering for the brave.
And as the cruisers drifted past,
Serene, formidable, sublime,
Leviathans of steel so vast
It seemed their power must still outlast
The ravages of endless time,
About the people on the cliff
The silence fell that awe inspires ;
Then said a raucous voice : “ Well, if
Yer arskin’ me, Lor strike me stiff,
No wonder that they heat Bill Squires ! ’’
vio.
SILAS SNELL.


EAR D SEA
To lose the power of hearing the joyous sounds of
life, the laughter and prattle of children, the voices
of those we love, or the sound of one’s own voice, is
certainly one of mankind’s greatest afflictions. Life
loses its sweetness, being deprived of one of Heaven’s
greatest blessings. The totally deaf person is simply
a living tragedy.
Even if you are only troubled with Head-Noises,
Ear Ringings, Nervous Headache, Dizzy Sensations,
Discharging or Inflamed Ears, remember they are
usually the symptoms of partial or total deafness,
which sooner dr later are sure to follow. All these
can be easily cured (right in your own home) with the
world-renowned “ EAROSCOPE ” treatment—
Nature’s own remedy of Pure Aural Kinetics.
A Grateful Patient’s Letter Just Received.
WM. ANDERSON, ESQ. (77 years of aye), of HAY-
CROFT, Vic., who was troubled, with deafness and other
aural complications for over 25 rears, writes:—" I am verv
pleased with your treatment. The Baroscope has proved
most successful in my case. It has exceeded my own expec-
tations, and done more than you promised me. The Baro-
scope has not only cured my deafness, but it has improved
me generally, and I feel now 10 years younger, and am
stronger and brighter than I have felt for years.”
EVERY POST BRINGS US SIMILAR LETTERS.
The “ EAROSCOPE ” is the simple cure of Nature b}'
the means of Pure Natural Aural Kinetics without
any of the painful probing, syringing, or spraving--harsh
methods usually adopted by doctors. The *‘ EAR j-
SCOPE” not only restores the hearing, but the afflicted
ear regains its normal health and strength.
Call or write for Full FREE Particular* with abundant
Testimonials.
The EAROSCOPE INSTITUTE, 90 Pitt St.
DEP. (26) SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DEAFNESS
HEAD
NOISES
RINGING
IN EARS
DISCHARG-
ING EARS
Perforated
Ear Drums
Sunken
Ear Drums
Catarrhal
Deafness
etc., etc.
A casual comparison : Between 1901 and
1908 savings-bank deposits in Freetrade Britain
increased by £19,000,000; in the same time, the
increase in ProtectionistG-ernmny was £192,000,000-
The savings banks are the banks of the poor, and
these figures explain how the poor get on under
the two policies.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYD.MEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON'.
EVERY EVENING.
ONE OE THE MOST NOTABLE SUCCESSES ON THE
AMERICAN STAGE,
mrs. wiggs of the
CABBAGE PATCH,
By Anne Crawford Flexner and Alice Hegan Rice.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.* Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS
OF THE DELIGHTFUL DUTCH MUSICAL PLAY,
TH E RE D MILL.
By Henry Blossom and Victor Herbert.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, PETER PAN.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Comic
Opera Co. presents
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By Paul A. Rubens and Austin Hurgon.
One of tne Most Successful Musical Productions of
Recent Years.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES—D.C. and R.S., ss. ; Stalls 35.; Family Circle, 2s. ;
Gallery, Is.
KILTIES
KILTIES
LAST
THREE
NIGHTS
AS FOLLOWS:—
Thursday, August 20 - - - Stadium
(Rushcutters Bay).
Friday, August 21 - Centenary Hall
(York Street).
Saturday, August 22 - Centenary Hall
(York Street).
TWO CONCERTS DAILY.
Matinees - 3 p.m. Concerts - 8 p.m.
See Daily Papers for Details.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager.
i A L A CE
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
’ THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES " Ito A Sy °’
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
UEE N ’ S
HALL,
SYDNEY.
THE RAGE OF SYDNEY.
MACMAHON & CARROLL’S FASCINATING
PICTURE DRAMA,
“FOR THE TERM OF HIS
NATURAL LIFE.”
Plan at Elvy’s.
HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER'S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA. :
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2b., Is. 6d., Is,, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
JHE LYCEUM
Amusements.
f HE GLA C I ARI UM, SYDNEY.
REAL ICE SKATING.
* \ lO t 0 12 : 3t05; 8 to 10.30.
ADMISSION 2s. CHTLDREN-Mornirigarjd Afternoon
only, Is. SlvATli HIRE, SIXPENCE.
SATURDAY MORNING! Admission, CHILDREN, 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
TLY °„ L THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedy Sketch Artists.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
GALETTI’S DOGS and GIBBON BABOONS.
MISS MIGNONETTE KOKIN, Charming* Comedienne.
THE MILES STAVORDALE QUINTETTE.
REGAN AND RYAN, Comedians and Dancers.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES 35., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPE0 PER A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
TROUPE OF 12 REAL ARABS, World’s Greatest
Acrobats and Tumblers.
TOD LOWAN, Quaint Comedian.
RIGOLETTO BROTHERS, Gymnasts.
FRED BLUETT, Vocal Comedian.
MUSICAL IBSONS.
FLORRIE and STELLA RANGER.
Plan at Allan’s. g&- PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
I*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
ONLY EIGHT MORE NIGHTS OF
MEYNELL and GUNN’S DRAMATIC CO.
—in—
TWO LITTLE SAILOR BOYS
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Plan at Allan’s.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 22,
First Appearance of Miss Margaret ANGLIN
™ the thief.
RE-APPEARANCE, AFTER TEN YEARS’ ABSENCE,
OF MR. GEO. S. TITHERADGE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 20, FRIDAY, AUGUST 21,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 22,
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
A LIFE’S REVENGE.
RE-APPEARANCE OF
Popular Prices.
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS OF
Mr. H. R. ROBERTS’ NEW CO. of ENGLISH
and AMERICAN ARTISTS
IN
THE PRINCE CHAP.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THEEES I LL
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
fO WN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Direction of .. .. J. and N. TAIT.
MARK HAMBOURG
FAREWELL RECITAL, SATURDAY, AUGUST 22.
ADELAIDE TOWN HALL—
TUESDAY, AUG. 25, WEDNESDAY, AUG. 26.
PRICES—6s, 4s, 3s, and 2s.
E SKATING.
GLACIARIUM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
POPULAR PRICES EVERY EVENING,
ONE SHILLING. ' '
SCHOOL CHILDREN, SATURDAY MORNINGS,
SIXPENCE.
p E A L 1C
MELBOURNE
SMOKE
REFEREE
TOBACCO,
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
The Famous MEZOIM Accordions.
These Accordions are justly
famed for their magnificent
Tone and Superior Construc=
tion. Write for our illus=
trated Catalogue of Musical
Instruments—FßEE.
Note the change in our Street
Number—from 297 to 256.
£L
mezon
MEZON ACCORDIONS are
guaranteed for 12 months.
PRICES:
The Celestial Mezon, 30s.
The Organ Mezon, 355.
The Wonder Mezon, 425.
The Grand Organ Mezon, 635.
The Chromatic Mezon, 90s.
Sent Anywhere on receipt of Price.
LYONS, 256 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Sole Agent.
E
33
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
CZERNY’S
CONJURING CARDS.
Complete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free ONE SHILLING (Postal Note).
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Yic.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
iCAT ARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgii, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
The S. M. Herald (15/8/’08) has made
up its alleged mind about the globe-trotting
Glasgow Professor’s idea that Australia is “ smart
enough, but not sane enough,” and it practically
pleads guilty:—
Our defence against these charges is, it must be ad-
mitted, a poor one at first sight. We have had, and still
have, no leaders possessed of both the insight and the
courage to show us the way to go.
But the Herald has a remedy:—
We should be all the more eager to . . . appoint some-
one whose duty it would be to consider social questions
undisturbed by politics or business.
Some great paper, for instance, which wouldn’t
be able to proudly boast that it had never lost an
advt. through the intemperance of its advocacy
of any cause, no matter how right the cause might
be.
The Melbourne Trades Hall Council is
reported to have expressed its “disapprobation
and alarm ” at the conduct of the Brisbane Labor
Congress in encouraging the spread of education.
The Brisbane Congress approved of the Deakin
Government’s idea that the Australian system of
compulsory education should include a knowledge
of shooting and military tactics—the kind of
knowledge that the affrighted local Tory calls
“ conscription ” and “militarism”—and it seems
as if, in this "matter, the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council is with the local Tory.
MC
DUNLOP TYRES
Again Victorious.
On Saturday, 15th inst., a big ROAD RACE from Bathurst
to Sydney was run. There were 95 starters. The result was
A. TURNER ... ... FIRST
R. PATTERSON ... SECOND
T. LARCOMBE ... FASTEST TIME
Each of whom selected
Dunlop Tyres
i——
to carry them through the long and mountainous journey,
and who consequently Won the Cream of the Prizes.
Dunlop Tyres were first in 1888. CSL
have remained foremost ever since.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER COMPANY OP AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


“—GOOD—
DIGESTION
MAKES GOOD HEALTH.
The surest way to have good health is to keep your digestion healthy
and active. All the nourishment of your body must pass through your
stomach, and if t that is not in a fit state to digest it properly, it stands
to reason that your health must suffer. Undigested food will not yield
its nourishment. On the contrary it sours in your stomach and clogs
your system with impurities. Mother Seigel’s Syrup pats your stomach
right, and keeps it right. Here is an instance. Mr. Harry Dunn, 187,
Goulburn Street,Sydney, writing on March 4th, 1908, says:—“l suffered
from violent pains in my stomach, frequent sick headaches, and bilious
attacks every few days. I took all sorts of medicines without the least
benefit until at last I was persuaded to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup. The
result was complete cure, and I have been well ever since.”
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
ENSURES PERFECT ACTION OF THE
DIGESTIVE ORGANS.
By Royal
Appointment.
WZ&4 3
GRAND PRIX
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth,
On MICHELIN.
ALSO
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth
In VOITURETTE Class.
BARNET GLASS & CO.,
234 Clarence Street, Sydney
(Near Town Hall),
and all States.
a^-B-vsru
Surgeon
Dread of Indigestion
drives many men and women to a mistaken dietary regime,
and —chronic dyspepsia. It is the greatest mistake in the world.
Anybody who knows the supreme corrective value of Cockle’s Pills
can enjoy all the rational pleasures of the table with impunity. Cockle’s
Pills thoroughly purify, regulate, and strengthen the digestive system.
They ensure natural functional activity. Physicians have recognised
this for the last century.
KL
Q
PILLS.
trade A\ark.
, Filler's
O^PLUMES
J 1 Jif/iRTY Welcome
7o l//s/rors
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
Mr. T. J. Ramsey, Eden, N.S.W., says :
“Of all the medicines we sell, Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy gives the best satisfaction to our
customers.”*
BY APPOINTMENT
wfigamss
TO H.M. THE KING,
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S- AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE. U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL. I The “ Joßer” Trick Matchbox.
will stop
the most
vicious
do ft (or
manjwith-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, or post free anywhere for 3/-.
The Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle*
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly .
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions, 7d. post free.
The JoSSer’s Indiarubber Snake (
The object
is to remove
the handle
from the
rings. You
get it out of
one ring-,
you may get it out of two rings, but can you get it
out of all the rings? It is sufficient to siy that it
can be done. Very neatly and perfectly made, and
can be carried quite easily in the vest pocket. Made
of polished brass. This puzzle was made in China in
the early part of this century, and a few were
brought home made of ivory. Price complete, with
full directions, 1/- post free anywhere.
5Q688189
One of our most successfu, -urprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can be held in a closed
hand without being noticed. Springs but of the
hand in a most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price 'l/3 post free anywhere.
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Hayinarket Post Office.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The recent Privy Council judgment in the trade
society case, Macintosh v. Dun, recalls the establishment
of the first trade-protection society in Melbourne in the
early ’sixties. The prime mover was Captain Radcliffe,
of the Carlton Volunteer Rifle Corps, partner in the firm
of M*Clure, Valentine and 00., wholesale grocers, of Eliza-
beth-street. Debt-collecting was that early society’s
strong suit, and it was successful from the jump. The
first secretary was a very tall, thin man—Joseph B.
Coombes—a sergeant in the Carlton corps. He eventually
became most of the society, having as partners Messrs.
Indwell and Ellis. Coombes made a fortune out of the
misfortunes of others, and sold out to his partners. Most
of the County Court business was done through Coombes
and Co. Therefore the Law Institute had a bitter hatred
against the concern, and “ laid around in ballast” for it
during quite a number of years, but failed to allege any-
thing serious or even plausible against it.
* * * *
“H. Phelthatt” : The “Free Picture Swindle,”
as familiar in Old World parts as the immoral
“Spanish Prisoner” confidence business, is taking hold
on the Commonwealth. The procedure is charmingly
simple. Steve Brokenthigh, of Pugmill Flat, receives a
letter from the metropolis something after this
style :—“ Dear Sir, —Your name has grow'n familiar
in commercial circles in the city. We recog-
nise you as being the leading resident of Pug-
mill Flat.... We are endeavoring to establish our
reputation (already so well known in the larger tow'ns)
throughout the State. We are anxious to introduce our
work to Pugmill Flat.... We will undertake to enlarge
the photo of a relative of yours free of cost. (Our usual
charge for same is £2 25.) All we ask in return is that
you will show it to your friends.”. Brokenthigh likes the
idea of being known as the head man of PugmiU Flat,
and he likes the idea of getting his grandfather enlarged
for nothing. The counterfeit presentment of grand-dad
is promptly dispatched to Sydney. In due course, Stephen
Brokenthigh is informed that the old man is enlarged,
and looks magnificent. A P.S. inquires casually whether
he would like him framed in oak or red gum. A P.P.S.
begs him, in offhand fashion, to kindly send carriage,
3s. 6d. Stephen writes back to say he favors oak trim-
ming (or red-gum, as the case may be), and forwards 3s.
6d., with a slightly .puzzled feeling agitating his brain-
pan. The following week grand-dad returns to the Flat
and brings a bill for 21s. for his frame. Brokenthigh pays
blasphemously—his two consolations being that he has
“ got the best of them for 17s. 6d.” ; and that he needn’t
show the outrageous work of art to anyone unless he
chooses.
* * * *
“Ra”: The names of Yiti Levu and VanuaLevu,
the two principal islands of the Fijian group, should be
effaced from the map and “Colonial Sugar Refining Co.”
in extra large capitals substituted. No greater Octopus
out of the sea exists than this grasping monopoly. Its
tentacles are on Fiji, and seem to be on it for good, too.
This great Anti-Sosh concern 'runs ihe Government, and,
bar trifling opposition in the shape of the Canadian com-
pany, it runs the sugar market. The outside planter must
sell his cane to the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. K he
cries out against the price fixed by it, it tells him to go
to a higher world. He then has this pleasing alterna-
tive : he may see his cane rot where it stands, or else
accept, in a humble spirit, the price offered. The supine
Government having leased or sold nearly all the arable
land to the C. S. R. Co., it controls the highways of the
country. The best the Government seems able to do in
the matter of roads is to cut a meek track alongside
the tramline of the co. A tramline for the con-
veyance of cane to the mills runs from each of
the different estates of the Octopus, and it’s beside
these the weary citizen has to travel. As the lines turn
and wriggle in order to suit the co.’s convenience, One
may have to go ten miles where, under fair conditions,
six would suffice. Certainly you' can take a short cut.
The obliging Octopus (genus terra graspus ) will permit
you to go through its estates. But as this entails nego-
tiating several miles of cane-stalks, and probably the
loss of much hide and an eye or two from the sword-
like leaves, and the risk of losing your way in several
directions at once, as you can’t see 3ft. in front of
you, the munificent offer is unappreciated. He who
avails himself once never ventures a second time.
The Octopus, like most philanthropic concerns, believes
in cheap labor. It indentures Indians at Is. a “task.”
That is, the coolie is set a task, and when he completes it
he’s credited with a shining bob. He may start at 5.30
a.m. and not finish till 10 p.m. That’s his lookout. The
co. seldom errs on the short side. Some time ago the
coolies of a certain district run by the Octopus coip-
plained that they couldn’t manage on the bob, as living
was so high. The Octopus didn’t increase the bob : In-
stead it sent a circular to the three trading stations,
asking them to lower their prices, and the circular ap-
proached as near to a command as the circumstances
permitted. The Octopus’s mode of obtaining roadway
through the land of outside planters is instructive in
its simplicity. A planter was recently approached
by the co. and asked to lease it a road-
way through his property, which stood between
one of its estates and the crushing mill. It
meant a loss of about 10 acres to the planter. The latter
fixed £5O a year as rent. The Octopus waved its longest
tentacle and said “NO ! ” The planter said, “ You can’t
get it for less,” which showed that he didn’t know his
way about. Two months later a Government, road was
declared through the property, and the O.S.R. ran its
tramline for nothing, and; smiled. That planter had for-
gotten that the O. S. R. Co. is really the Government in
Fiji. Much could be written of a planter’s hardships—
how he has to accept the weight of his cane as correct
without being permitted to see it weighed ; how he has
to smile when coolly informed that his density ( i.e ., the
percentage of sugar in his cane) totals 13° when he thinks
he could swear that it goes close on 15°, and various
other pleasantries indulged in by this playful concern—
space permits not in an article of this description. I
have merely described one end of one tentacle of the
Octopus, and it is a waving mass of them.
Five years’ notice of closing down is a bit un-
usual for a mine, but that is what has been given at
Freiberg, about the richest silver mine in Europe. For
over seven centuries it has been worked for the benefit of
the kings of Saxony ; but the low price of silver and the
pressure of outside competition have made it a dead loss.
Last year it was £44,000 on the wrong side. Asa sudden
stop would mean ruin to the large town of Freiberg, the
five years’notice has been issued to give everybody time to
stand from under.
THE CITY TIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the tide comes sweeping inward from the city’s
outer seas,
From the roadways and the railways, from the tramways
and the quays,
O, it’s then the moving current sends a tingle through
the blood
To the hurry and the tumult of the surging human
flood !
For the city has awakened, and its morning freshets
run ;
All the bells and clocks are sounding a laudamus to the
sun.
Now the clanging streets grow busy, and the pavements
are alive,
And the serried blocks of buildings all are humming like
a hive.
So still the tide rolls inward from the railways and the
roads,
Where eternal wheels come groaning underneath eternal
loads ;
It eddies round the corners, and it swings from street to
street,
Till the footpaths are a-clatter with the multitude of feet.
As against the buttressed buildings each persistent
current swirls
It breaks in spray of city men, and office-boys, and girls ;
Till all the town is flooded with their bustle and their
rout
As they riot on till sunset, when the great ebb-tide
sets out.
Then the roar of outward traffic, and the tramp of homing
feet ;
A wind whisks round the corners with a driving mist and
sleet;
The asphalt shines and glimmers as the arc-lights flash
and glow,
And the wheels go splashing outwards, where diverging
currents flow.
Trooping “hands” from shop and warehouse, from the
factories and marts ;
The motley crowd of workers of the motley crafts and arts ;
Brisk clerks and dainty ladies, and the men of script and
bar,
And the fat man rolling homewards on his gasping motor
car.
Then night, and void, and stillness—for the human tide
is out—
The silence of great buildings ; some belated drunkard’s
shout;
The lines of sleeping gaslights ; a policeman on his beat,
Whose helmet glints and glistens as he tramps from street
to street!
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


LONDON OPINION.
• . • ■ 'l* , t •
IT is a striking fact that on the first occasion on which
Beale Australian Pianos have appeared publicly in
London they should attract unusual attention and admira-
tion ; and it is more striking still that a great British con-
cern such as J. Lyons & Co., the proprietors of what will
be the largest and one of the most beautifully furnished
Feeding London.
Last week Lyons & Co., well-known caterers
here, and the proprietors of some 120 tea-rooms,
besides the Trocadero, the Gaiety, and other
favorite restaurants, held their annual meeting,
Ihe gross profits for the year amounted to
£/90,000, with an available balance of a quarter of
a million. A4O per cent, dividend was declared,
and £40,000 was added to the reserve fund, which
now stands at £480,000. On recovering one’s
breath after reading these colossal results of
London retail food supply, in one of its branches,
one was not surprised to find that a bonus of
£3500 had been granted to the directors, in addi-
tion to their ordinary remuneration. A few
thousands scattered more or less promiscuously
did not seem to matter much. Lyons’ tea-rooms
are familiar to all Londoners. They are to be
found from east to west, from north to south—
everywhere—at intervals of a few hundred yards.
In addition, just now the firm has scores of shops,
and some thousands of waitresses, at the Exhibi-
tion, a venture which, judging from the incessant
rush of business there, will send their profits well
over the million for the current year. The organi-
sation of this gigantic concern is certainly wonder-
ful, and not least so at the Exhibition, where in
the tiniest spaces available to them for shops,
Lyons’ produce swiftly, and with unfailing
resource, huge numbers of lunches daily, and light
refreshments of the most varied kind, and every
one of their hundreds of shops seems completely
equipped for whatever contingency.
—S. M. Herald, July 23, 1908.
hotels in London, should consider our
Pianos of such merit as to warrant their
bringing twenty of them twelve thousand
miles oversea for the hotel referred to.
Messrs. Lyons & Co. gave this order
...... T.,..r •; r - r , .
after having inspected the ten Beale
Australian Pianos now at the Franco-
British Exhibition. Those pianos were
not specially manufactured for the
Exhibition, but were just taken out of
our ordinary stock, and are the same as
are sold by us every day in all parts of Australasia.
Perhaps you have been hesitating as to where to buy your
new piano. Does this not help you ? ■
BEALE’S
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 24
837 Hay Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie,
Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
W.A. ; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Queensland).
Catalogue Free. Branches throughout the Commonwealth.


RELY on YOUR OWN JUDGMENT
As to tbe beanty, finish, and style of an article, but in malting yotir pur-
chase remember tbat we can give better goods, better prices, and more
satisfaction from all standpoints tban any otber house in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Forget-Me-Not”
Spray
Heart CHARM.
SHOPPING BY MAIL. •
An efficient mail order depart-
ment offer prompt and satisfac-
tory service to distant patrons.
All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 . Bar BROOCH, set pure
and Rubies or Sapphires,
25/.
15ct. Gold, £2/10/.
Diamonds
$
Psi
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Curb Padlock' BRACELET,
with Safety
Chain attached, as illustrated.
£3
Larger, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/.
Smaller, £3/, 30/ 35/, 40/
50/.
In 15ct. Gold, £4/5/,
£4/15/, £5. .
18ct. Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE.
Write at once for a copy of
our 304-page illustrated cata-
logue. You’ll receive it by re-
turn mail, post free. Write to-
day.
A. SAUND.ERSi
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
Heart CIIAUM,
10/.
Larger, 12/6.
JUKJ
U
m
m
m
iOQ
9ct. Gold Sword and Crescent BROOCH, Set Pearls or
Pearls and Turquoise,
27/6.
OPEN'
FACE,
10/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/0
/
s
y=J
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
Keyless WATCHES,
Shortwind, Stem Set,
Perfectly Regulated.
10/.
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
20/.
'>
vvwew.
timc’tßSEiir-'S
omiepoM
xSko
-- J ,
AINIOITSHfEIM
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah and Ivy Leaf
Spray BROOCH.
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LOCKET,
set Ruby or
Sapphire,
35/.
Silver, without stone,
4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
•-In its construction special care has been given,
so as to assure exceptional strength, durability, and
absolute accuracy.
Each watch carries- with it our written guarantee
of free repair for one year—breakages excepted.
THE
GUARD.”
THE
“RAILWAY.”
20/-
Nickel open face Keyless Lever, shortwind,
stem-set, patent adjusted balance, non-magnetic,
dust and water proof cases, fine or bold dial.
The “Guard,” 157-
Higher grade, the Railway 20/- Guaranteed for
10 years, and kept in free repair for one year.
•' a. Saunders.
9ct. Gold Bird and Floral Spray
Bar BROOCH,
s/n.
mu ■MHninnuiiii
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PEN-
DANT, set with
Pearl, Ruby, or
Turquoise, with
photo, recess,
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£.3
251-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 5C I
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £l/10/,
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH,
set fine Pearls and Turquoise,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. -Gold PENDANT or
BROOCH, set fine
White Pearls,
£6/6/.
Complete in Case.
OPEN
FACE.
20/-
HIGHER
GRADE.
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES,
J-plate, shortwind, patent adjusted
balance, dust and water proof cases,
20/.
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/. .35/.
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double Curb ALBERT, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold,
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
14ct. Gold Filled, guaranteed, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Diamonds or Rubies, or
Sapphires,
£3/10/.
5 Diamonds, £5.
SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Forget
Me-Not Spray BROOCH,
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval and
Bar LINKS,
17/6.
. 15ct Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set fine Pearls
and Amethysts,
£5/5/.
Pearls and Tourmalines,
£5/10/.
Diamonds and Sapphires, .
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Opals and
pure Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£4/10/.
SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Buckle BROOCH, buckle
set with fir - " hite Pearls,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumb-bell LINKS,
21/.
15ct. Gold 40/. •
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT
or BROOCH, set fine
Pearls and Amethysts,
£4/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines.
£5/10/.
SOLID
SILVER
SOLID
GOLD.
£7/10
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVER,
J-Plate Movement, Fully Jewelled, £2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lo,
£l2/10/, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


*
*4
m
ft
MAIFTBRAC
i inn i u^&iriv
%
d WITH
m
M
!®t!
iiil
PI
.
9
ii-i
14
■
>rt
HI
■
£
zi
*4#
;
u
s
m
m
m
m
■
i*
mm
##
I
■>':
/
I 1 »
"‘ TTtl>l>ll «»i*miimiiiipiiir»iii
life
&Jb
:
m
if
■
■
if**:
*
s
%
«r
ii
pi
//
*%«
■ .
1
m
m
k'rx-A
im
v-s
- **>
9T"
, ■
h
.
\
&
m
K
■■iffy


TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
* (some illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2Jd.
A. tie SAILLE, 20, Rue da la Michodiere, Paris.
%
%
\ WISH
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT” LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
MOLLER’S
COD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFECTS
so often experienced when using-
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expert Opinions :
Indian Medical Gazette :
“ Superior to any we have seen.’
Medical Review: “It is quie
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, High Holborn, Londcn.
Factories: Lofoten & Christiania, Norway.
Y K \
\ \ A
c»a4 CE
/ N.Q.
Branch
/ / .A /
OUR RATES ARE THE L°WEW CURRENT
OUR P«LICy CONDITIONS #
THE MOST FAVORABLE*
QUR Bonuses the highest obtainable
our Claim Settlements Peiim.
ARE LIBERALS PROMPT-Y
Established in
f 1 see,
with Branches all ove
AUSTRALASIA
svifte.
West Australian
Branch.
. South
Australian I
ipr**-. Branch.
A purcly Australian (®MPANy
TRANSACTING FIRE,MARINE,
& Accident Insurance
/; • ulbof ne \ ’ : '-
Me'
Central QUndv,~ ,
RDANrH^^^
Branch
South Q’land
BrancK.ffifoxto
District /&:
.. Office .
Head
■vjOffice */Sy(f
> Tasmanian
Branch
Hobart.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING $ MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. _ For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBIJRYS Ltd., LONDON. « Bridge # Loftus Sts., Sydney
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
PRESENTATION
lECES
If you have a Presentation in view and want something of the
best quality, then the goods we show to-day will be of
particular interest, as they represent the Newest and Best of
their kinds—shipped to us direct from the already world=famed
TREASURE HOUSE of STEWART, DAWSON & CO. in London.
f aateo7i&
(AUSTRALIA)
Ltd
Order by Mail, as we pay carriage to any part of Australia. If
by any chance the goods do not please, we exchange or refund the
money without argument. Write for our big FREE ART
CATALOGUE of 112 Pages.
No. F4387-—Richly-Chased Full-size A 1
Quality Silver-plated Tea Pot, £ 2 ISs.
No. G 2652. —Richly Hand-Engraved A.l
Quality Silver-plated Full-size Tea Pot,
£2 12s. 6d.
70S
wSLiI
No. F 5099. —Richly Hand-Engraved and
Fluted A 1 Quality Silver-plated Full-size
Tea Pot, £ 2 10s.
No. G 4227. —Richly Chased A 1 Quality
Silver-plated Afternoon Tea Pot, with
Sugar and Cream to match, .£3/17/6.
No. G 5112.— Handsome Plain Tea Pot,
Afternoon Size, A 1 Quality Silver-plate,
with Sugar and Cream to match, JB3/12/6.
r "‘ll 1
'"iiiiiuimmw
IjjiiitwiilfiHiiiii
ijiiiiiiiihiiiiiiiiiffiiHiijiiiilii
Solid Silver Presentation Service, with Inscription complete, £B7 10s.
03
No. G 5760. —A 1 Quality Silver-plated
full-size Tea and Coffee Service, JB9.


KUGELMANNS
PURE 71ERBAL SKIM SOAP
m
m 0
m
m
BEAUTY’S AID
AS a SKIN FOOD and TOILET PREPARATION Kugelmairn/s Ptire Herbal Skin Soap is fast
achieving a position before all others as the Soap for special treatment for the complexion and skin, as well as for
medical, hygienic and general toilet purposes. The main reason for this unique assumption of public favoi is that
KUGLEMANN’S HERBAL SKIN SOAP is not merely an article of ordinary commercial manufacture, but is carefully
prepared under the direction and from the prescription of Australia’s Leading Consulting Herbal Practitioner, so as to really
constitute a part of his treatment. In short, two great principles form the solid base of this Herbal Soap.
1. That ABSOLUTE PURITY is essential in any article of constant application to that delicate, vital organ, the Skin.
2. That soap affords one of the readiest mediums for the medical treatment of the human body.
The HERBAL SKIN SOAP in its present form represents the fruit of nearly forty years experience in the use
and prescription of beneficent herbs for the cure of Australian maladies, and, therefore, is better adapted to the climatic and
other conditions of Australian life than any imported soap.
PURITY. IMPORTANT ANALYSIS.
ARTHUR B. CHATER, Fellow of the Chemical' Society ; Examiner in Chemistry to Queensland Pharmacy Board ; Public Analyst for the City of Brisbane.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co. Analytical Laboratory, South Brisbane, July 12th 1900.
Dear Sirs,—Having made an analysis of “H. E. Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap,” I find it to be an absolutely pure soap, containing no tree alkali, which has an
injurious action upon the human skin. It should therefore be suitable for application to any human skin, or for use as a dentifrice. It also contains extracte ot medicinal lei os
which the proprietors claim as a trade secret, and to have a curative effect upon the skin. Yours faithfully, (Signed) A •
For the Prevention of Redness
and Skin Irritation of all kinds,
the cure of Eczema, Tetter, Ring-worm, Shingles,
Blotches, Pimples and Freckles, the prevention and cure
of Dandruff, fostering a stimulating effect upon the
growth of the* Hair, stopping falling-out, inducing
growth, and making it soft and glossy. As a dentifrice,
s t arrests decay and produces a dazzling brilliance.
For Shaving is of Unique Bene-
fit, owing to its production of a rich, lasting and
creamy lather, and the exercise of soothing and hygienic
functions upon the skin.
In the nursery its beneficent effects upon the tender
skin of infancy obviates the use of Powder, etc., the
child’s skin being always kept cool and smooth by its use.
“ Beauty’s Aid ” is the well-earned title of
this Herbal Skin Soap, because, in a healthy and per-
manent manner, it enhances natural beauties as no mere
nostrum can ever hope to do. In every department of
the Toilet, and for every medicinal or hygienic purpose
for which soap can be used, this Soap Ir.s proved superior
to any other soap.
The Greatness of the Herbal
Sltin Soap is the greatness of Nature. It is a
rare combination of natural organic remedies culled
from the grand and simple provision of Mother Earth,
whose vesretable kingdom contains in abundance the only
medicines suited for assimilation by mankind.
The great appreciation of KUGELMANN’S PURE SKIN SOAP is indicated by the following selection of testimonials,
only an infinitesimal portion of those daily received from every part of Australasia :
Curative in Barcoo &Skin Disease.
Mount Ormond Tin Mines, near Irvinebank, North
Queensland, 4th July, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO. I have given a
thorough trial to your Herbal Skin Soap, which, from my
experience of its use, I consider superior to other soaps
used in connection with surgical operations. It is also a
fragrant and most effective Toilet Soap.
I may inform you that I gave some to a lady friend of
mine, who was suffering from Prickly Heat. She informed
me that the first application soothed the unpleasant irri-
tation, and that, after using it two @r three times, the
inflammation entirely disappeared.
I have also used it for something from which we
suffer out here in the “Never Never” country, where
vegetables are scarce and practically unobtainable, and
which bushmen know as the “Barcoo Rot” —an angry
irritant sore, that spreads over the surface of the skin
when it receives a scratch or a slight wound,
and declines to heal f.or some time, even under
the influence of Carbolic Ointment and a course
of Blood-Purifying Mixture. In this connection I
have found the Herbal Skin Soap marvellous in its healing
and soothing qualities. I have algo used it as a wash for
dressing festered wounds, for which purpose it has shown
marked curative medical healing properties, and is un-
doubtedly a boon to the public. I consider that for
Eczema or other diseases of the Skin it is without an
equal, and that when its virtues become known and
appreciated by the public it is likely to oust the imported
Skin Soaps from the. Australian market.
Your Herbal Skin Soap cleanses the Skin, frees its pores
from impurities, and guards it from the dangers of
disease. It frees the Skin, also, from Blotches, Pimples,
Sunburns and Blemishes, etc. I can honestly recommend
it to mothers when bathing their little ones, as it allays
all irritation and strengthens the Skin. (Signed) MAT-
THEW BUTLER, J.P., Mining Engineer, Mount Ormonde
Tin Mine, N. Queensland.
Makes the Hair Smooth f£L Glossy*
Little Edgar-street, East Brisbane, 4th July, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & 00., 14-16 Queen-street,
Melbourne, Dear Sirs,—l have thoroughly tested your
Herbal Skin Soap, and find it before all others. It is
especially good for the scalp, as it clears it of all scurf. I
have also noticed the Herbal Skin Soap to act splendidly
on the hair, making it smooth and glossy, and if the hair
has the least inclination to curl, by using the Herbal Skin
Soap it will become quite curly. (Signed) E. WHITTEN.
For Shaving none better.
George-street, Brisbane (Q.), 22nd June, 1907.
To Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & 00. Dear Sirs,—
Your Herbal Skin Soap is absolutely the best I have come
across so far. It is well ahead of the most expensive im-
ported article. I use it myself, and find it has a soothing
effect upon the skin, quickly curing Pimples and other
small epidemical troubles. I also use your Herbal Skin
Soap for Shaving, simply because I can obtain none bet-
ter suited for that purpose. There is another important
reason why I use it, and that is that experience has
shown me that any small cut made by the razor heals at
once when your Herbal Skin Soap has been the shaving
soap used. (Signed) W. SABINE, Accountant, Ready
Money Stores.
How it Cure Pimples.
Sutherland Plains, Victoria, 29th April, 1900.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & 00. Dear Sirs,—For-
ward to Sutherland Plains P.O. three (3) tablets of your
Herbal,Skin Soap. The soap I received from you only a
few weeks ago was splendid. I was troubled with pimples
for the last eighteen months. I tried all kinds of soap,
but without success, and, after using one tablet of your
Herbal Skin Soap, they have completely disappeared—
and if you wish to make this public, you may.—l remain,
yours truly. (Signed) THOMAS GOODE.
For Skin and Hair.
16 Moton-place, Carlton, Vic., 13th June, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., 14-16 Queen street,
City. Dear Sirs, —I have used your Herbal Skin Soap
now for over three years. I have found that it always
leaves the skin soft and pliable, and is very strengthening
to the hair. My \yife swears by your Herbal Soap, and
will use no other. Wishing’ you every success. (Sig'ned)
JOHN MANNING.
Cures Sunburn and Eruptions.
Whynot-street, West End, Brisbane, 18th February, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., 14-16 Queen-
street, Melbourne. Dear Sirs,—You will be pleased to
learn that your Herbal Skin Soap is superior to any oint-
ment I ever tried. I was down at the seaside bathing
lately, and my back got very much burnt by the sun. It
was raw and” very painful. I made a thick lather of
Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap, and left it on all night;
in the morning it was quite cured, and my skin was per-
fectly smooth. Two little girls, one my niece and the
other my daughter, were cured of sores and eruptions on
the head by a plentiful use of the same soap. Whatever
it touches it seems to heal. (Signed) A. DIPLOCK.
A. Lovely Complexion.
92 Shafton-road, Kangaroo Point, Brisbane,
17th February, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELM ANN & CO., 14-16 Queen-
street, Melbourne. Dear Sirs, —I like Kugelmanh’s
Herbal Skin Soap, owing to its keeping my complexion
free from blemishes, freckles, and sunburn. If I get sun-
burned in the course of the day, I find your Herbal Skin
Soap will take it quite away by morning. If I run out of
your soap, my complexion soon begins to look blotchy
and discolored. I can soon get it right again, though, by
using plenty of your Skin Soap. (Signed) BEATRICE
BROWN.
For Glossy Hair* and Baby’s Skin.
Gray-streep, Brisbane, Q., 24th April, 1902.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO. Dear Sirs,—l
find your Herbal Skin Soap excellent for my hair. I
know of no Soap to equal it; it makes my hair soft and
glossy. I also use your Soap for washing my baby, as it
keeps his skin free from soreness, and quite smooth and
cool. When I use your Soap for the baby, no powder is
necessary.—l remain, Sir, yours obediently,
(Signed) (Mrs.) EMMA KENT.
Children’s Tender Skin.
Stanlev-st.', East Brisbane, Q., 19th April, 1902.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO. Dear Sirs,—l
write this especially to let you know that my family and
myself have used your Herbal Skin Soap for some con-
siderable time past, and find it incomparably superior to
any soap we ever used before. I have proved it to be
especially efficacious in softening the skin and in remov-
ing sores and roughness, and it is the only soap I know of
which is suitable for the tender skins of young children.
Any little eruption or breaking out on my children soon
went away under the influence of a liberal use of your
soap, whilst other soaps I have noticed frequently pro-
duced roughness and made the infants sore. You may
use this as you like.—Yours truly, (Signed) HARRY
DAUGHTREY.
Shaved witb it Seven Years.
201 King William-street, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN A CO., 14-16 Queen-street,
Melbourne, Victoria. Dear Sirs,—l have used your Herbal
Skin Soap for seven or eight years, and I can conscien-
tiously recommend it to all who wish to use an absolutely
pure soap. The Herbal Skin Soap is delightfully pleasant
for Shaving purposes, and ne\ev irritates the skin like in-
ferior soaps.—l remain, (Signed) WILLIAM R. WALKIJR.
Free Sample sent
on receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Obtainable at all Chemists, Drapers and
send postal note or stamps of any S
Storekeepers throughout Australasia at 2/- per box of three tablets. If cannot purchase locally,
tate to the value of 2/- to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per return mail.
sole:
PROPRIETORS :
H. E. KUGELMANN ®. CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., Melbourne; 199 Clarence St, Sydney; and at Adelaide and Brisbane.


*
/■>
V.
::
A
* mikt».«
YYa^SSSifiiMiiiißi^mV*^
.
sinr**
C
PI
■c.
-*■>*•*
jpss
-«?*•?-
A
»<*
■ T-
T war
‘iJ
gfeggii
... f/' 7
*
t-nr;'.«
•swfis
P
>T
\
~
life -IK
Ltx> tfr£
ifcY?
v*
-:S>i
ilPil
"A ■ » : AA
v:
A • ■--.A
fe : ■ A"<
a
a ea^ao
<?
A.
k. ■
O
Or
O
o
x?
,
n
\J>
/N
y
<£
v r ■*
-
*■• "'V:;
'trm
All
/#
k U
%\\TH'.
§
«.>A\
<cA
.5
/A
/jp
/<Jr
"H
5C
or
<5
<
P/
<3
o
<x
•n/
V
*
tl
7Asm
P©i
““
NHU
y
Interstate Mail
Stedmshin Lines
The Five Companies’ American Fleet Special Time-table.
HE Murk an Ar-
mada, being due
in Sydney to-day
if the date of ar-
rival lias not
been altered in
the meantime, it
becomes necessary to mention that
it is also going to call at Melbourne,
after Sydney has done with it. Sydney will
have the first chance of finding it comparatively
fresh, and of shaking it by the aggregate paw,
while it says real kind things in real sham twang.
But Melbourne is also to have the same oppor-
tunities—certainly after Sydney has filled it with
ham sandwich and liquor and fowl and things
and will seize them just as vociferously. On
Saturday, 29th August next, the Yankee fleet,
covered with glory and probably picture post-
cards, will enter Port Phillip Heads and, the
weather and Providence being willing, cast, anchor
in Hobson’s Bay. The fleet is to remain just
one week at Melbourne, and, as at Sydney, will
consume aquantity of victuals, etc. (probably etc.),
besides witnessing and taking part in a number of
festivities, compared to which Nero’s famed con-
flagration was, in point of splendor, one damp
match on a very wet night. Thus it becomes
imperative to speak more especially to the Sydney
citizen about the facilities which the Five Com-
panies are providing fora short visit to Melbourne.
As stated in the previous article on the subject of
this vast entertainment, the Five Companies have
made special arrangements for a quick service of
steamers between Melbourne and Sydney during
the uproar. Those steamers that were to take
the Melbournian to Sydney, and return him in good
order and condition, have already been advertised
on this page. Those that are now to carry the
Sydneyite to Melbourne, and refund him without
damage, are given below. Steamers will therefore
be despatched from Sydney as under
Bombala leaves Sydney August 22. Arrives Melbourne
five days before fleet.
Aramac leaves Sydney August 25. Arrives Mel-
bourne two davs before fleet.
Yong-ala leaves Sydney August 27. Arrives
Melbourne same day as fleet.
Coonia leaves Sydney August 29. Arrives
Melbourne durin'g festivities.
Riverina leaves Sydney August 29.
Arrives Melbourne during festivities.
Wodonga leaves Sydney Sept. 1.
Arrives Melbourne during festivities.
That list offers the prospec-
tive visitor from Sydney a
choice of six steamers, two of
which leave before the fleet,
three a day or two after it,
while the Yongala, leaving on
the same day, will follow it
around to Melbourne —which
will give the traveller a chance of seeing it at sea,
and, as a privileged spectator, watch it enter Port
Phillip Heads. The above time-table will be
strictly observed—at least, so far as it is possible
to observe anything. Still the traveller can depend
upon them leaving on the dates stated, and need
have no fear of any possible delays in the passage
conflicting with his arrangements. All are fast,
up-to-date steamers, running closely to time all
the year round ; and they invariably land their
passengers in from 40 to 45 hours’ run from Sydney
to Melbourne, and vice versa.
As in Sydney, the same arragements and condi-
tions as to passage will be observed. That is to
say : The return portions of the tickets are inter-
changeable with those of other companies with-
out extra charge ; and with those of the railways
on payment of a small extra sum; while special
accommodation for those who desire will be pro-
vided, at a moderate charge, on board
the steamers while in port. The advantages
of this last-named innovation were dealt with
at some length in the earlier article; but
it might be wiser than more foolish to indi-
cate them briefly for the benefit of the intending
visitor from Sydney. The Five Companies have
been induced to institute this idea by the fact
that bed and board will be difficult, if not im-
possible, to secure in Melbourne, while the Fleet
is in the bay. Hotels, coffee palaces, and the
regular boarding-houses are already taken up in
part, if not in whole ; so, unless lie has relatives—
and he’ll find how curiously Scarce relatives are
during the festival —he’ll have so fall back upon
the excellent accommodation furnished by the Five
Companies. Moreover, lie’ll not have, the in-
cidental worry of hunting out his baggage—which
can be left on board—nor the stupendous trouble
of finding a bed, which may prove, in the end, to
have been already commandeered. But, if he
doesn’t care about remaining on board, there is a
chance of his obtaining a soft place for a doss on the
lee-side of the Queen’s Statue on the Yarra bank,
or securing shelter underneath one of the City
Council’s ornamental shrubs in the.same romantic
neighborhood ; and, as already delicately inferred,
the wind is unthinking and unmerciful at the end
of August and at the beginning of September.
Also, to make the argument more convincing, the
Five Companies will not extract any fancy prices
for the board and lodging its ships will provide
while in the port of Melbourne. As in Sydney, a
moderate tariff will be observed.
The fleet will leave Melbourne, bound West,
on sth September, assuming that there is no
alteration.of the date —as there is not likely to be
now—and the quintet of shipping companies have
considered the possibility of travellers desiring to
remain in Melbourne, to absorb some of its pic-
turesqueness after the American hardware has
departed. Accordingly, they have very properly
arranged for a special service from Melbourne to
Sydney, not only during the course of the celebra-
tions in Melbourne, but for some days after the
ioyfulness has ceased and has left only the wreck
of many luncheons and decorations. Consequently ,
the Sydney citizen who finds himself in Melbourne
can depend on quite a number of boats to carry
him back to his home. Such boats will leave as
under:—
Ararnac leaves Melbourne for Sydney August 29
(during Melbourne festivities).
Kanowna leaves Melbourne for Sydney- August 31
(during Melbourne festivities),
Yongala leaves Melbourne for Sydney . September 2
.(during Melbourne festivities).
Cootna leaves Melbourne for Sydney September 2
(during Melbourne festivities). :
Wodonga leaves Melbourne for Sydney September 5
(last day of Melbourne festivities).
Gran tala leaves Melbourne for Sydney September 5
(last day of Melbourne festivities).
Peregrine leaves Melbourne for Sydney September 9
(allowing four days extra in Melbourne).
'Buninyong leaves Melbourne for Sydney Septeniber 9,-
allowing four days extra in Melbourne.
Arrawatta leaves Melbourne for Sydney September 12,
allowing seven days extra in Melbourne.
Kyarra leaves Melbourne for Sydney September 14,
allowing nine days extra in Melbourne.
Bombala leaves Melbourne for Sydney September 16,
allowing 11 days extra in Melbourne.
Marloo leaves Melbourne for Sydney September 16,
allowing 11 days extra in Melbourne.
As will be seen, that is a fairly extensive time-
table, which will suit everybody. Six steamers
are to leave for Sydney for.the-convenience of
those who, through lack of time or for other reasons,
are forced to return at the beginning or during
the Melbourne celebrations ; while six more are
to follow at intervals of a few days, to permit a
stay of an extra day or two in the southern capital.
No one can ask more than that, and, as Melbourne
is just as interesting to the Sydney stranger as
Sydney is to the Melbournian one; this chance is
sure to be availed of. But, as time is very short,
all possible visitors are requested to seek out the
offices of the Five Companies, whether in Sydney
or in Melbourne, where
further information as to
fares, charges, and
hours of sailing, will
be supplied. And it
is not superfluous to
remark that they
must apply at once
—lest they lose a
chance of a unique
trip on a unique
occasion.


Ma
h
e
/
A*
A J
AA
A>
>V
IS®!
i
Is
in
IS
II II II II II II II II II BI II 1111
II II II 1111 II II II II II IS mi
ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii iS ii Si || Si
II II II II II II II II II || ii mi
ii ii ii ii ii i
ii ii n ii n
ii ii ii Si ti
ii ii it n i
«i ii nun n in
ii ii ii £i ii ii ii
pi Si ii£l ii iiii
41 IS iiii iiii ii
1 1 1 a 111111111 1111
i ■ i mi 1111111111
ii■iiiiiS ■ i i i S i i i
w
%
G
■&
rO
O
o
» w ■¥
/' x IJf
H
A
Q
Melbourne,
Sydney, ®
All States.
Continental C. G. Rubber Co. Pty. Ltd
NEW MELBOURNE ADDRESS : 185 COLLINS STREET.
DEPOTS:
&
SYDNEY-220 CLARENCE STREET.
PERTH—64 KING STREET.
BRISBANE-28 ADELAIDE STREET.
LAUNCESTON—PATTERSON STREET.
ADELAIDE—6S GRENFELL STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH—BEDFORD ROW.
Q\
cD


Vs
♦
{O4
I
A
fi
uim^
rate
«
k
“Uncle, try Go wing’s for a
Suit of Australian Tweeds,
hand-made, 70- and 84-! ”
iSend for Patterns and vSelf-Measurement Forms.
All Orders Carriag'e Paid throughout Australia.
GOWING BROS., George Street, SYDNEY,


MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
Remember!
An AMERICAN
either drinks a cock-
tail (in which case he
will ask for the GOLD
LION Brand) or a
pore RYE Whisky*
MOUNT VERNON
is the best known
brand of RYE Whisky
in the United States,
and the Australian
Agents are
P. B. Burgoyne & Co*,
Ltd*,
130-2 William Street,
MELBOURNE*
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNTVERNON
MOUNTVERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
MOUNT VERNON
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
TO PLEASE
AN AMERICAN
You must give him either a GOLD
LION cocktail or a pure RYE Whisky.
Therefore you must order these goods
without delay. If you don't want
MOUNT VERNON RYE WHISKY,
you MUST have OLD VALLEY RYE
WHISKY, and the Australian Agents
♦♦♦ ♦ « «
•• •' .
P. B. Bargoyne & Co., Ltd,,
130-2 William Street,
MELBOURNE,
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY
OLD VALLEY


USE OF CUTICURA
Patient’s Arms and Hands in Fearful
State—Burning and Itching were
Unbearable—No Rest Nightor Day
—Five Months of Intense Torture.
HOPELESS CASE OF
ECZEMA SOON CURED
*'Gix months ago I used some green
dye, and I think some of it must have
:X\
w
•cTv
'1
1-
f x
.Ch
got into a small cut
on my right hand,
i Soon I began to suf-
fer intense pain, first
in my right arm and
then in my left. I
tried several reme-
dies, which only
aggravated the
arms, until I decided
to consult a doctor.
He said I was suf-
fering from eczema
following poisoning. By this time tho
arms were swollen and in a fearful
state; in fact, so bad that I was ren-
dered almost helpless. Needless to say,
I obtained no rest night or day. The
burning and itching were unbearable.
I followed the doctor’s directions, but
obtained only temporary relief, and the
eruption extended from both shoulders
to the finger-tips. I felt quite hopeless,
and regarded everything with very
little faith. However, acting on the
doctor's advice, I started using the
Cuticura Soap, Cuticura Ointment and
Cuticura Resolvent Pills. lam pleased
to say instant beneficial results were
forthcoming, and with a continued use
of the Cuticura Remedies I was free
from the intense pain after five months
of torture. Mrs. Florence Whitting-
ham, 75, Oakfield Terrace, Cattedown
Rd., Plymouth, Devon, Nov. 13, 1907.”
The agonizing itching and burning
of the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and crusting of scalp, as in scalled
head; the facial disfigurement, as in acne
•—all demand remedies of extraordinary
virtues to successfully cope with them,.
That Cuticura Soap, Ointment and Pills
are such stands proven by testimonials
of remarkable cures when many rem-
edies and even physicians have failed.
One set is often sufficient to cure.
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura B ook on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Principal flepots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris. 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns &
Co., Sydney; So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town,
etc.; Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Tokio; U. S. A., Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
The Battleships are here I
The cannon smoke has
cleared away—the atmo=
sphere is again clear—the
last faint echoes of the
welcoming guns have died
away in the distance, and
the mind is once again free
to give earnest considera=
tion to that too=oft=post=
poned question,
The Purchase of a Piano.
When you have been
around the City and in=
vestigated the merits of
certain makes of pianos,
come in and let us show
you the same merits, plus
many others, in
THE STEINWAY,
THE FEURICH,
THE MIGNON,
and
THE NANON
PIANOS.
These pianos are abso=
lutely the best —at their
respective prices—on the
market.
CASH OR TERMS.
CATALOGUES FREE.
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervousCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
r.TTF.S. Fn.d Ini all Chemist*.
115,000
The WaybacK iSeries*
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keep* aity/any. Reel Harry 16.
Note
Trade Mark.
m,
til*,
'O
I
2
|S
a
In Nature’s Service.
Men, women and (especially) children need at
times a corrective, laxative remedy when Nature
is sluggish in her duties. Biliousness, headache,
indigestion and flatulence generally indicate a
constipated condition, and the surest, safest and
pleasantest help to Nature is
This ideal household laxative has gained its
great reputation by sheer merit, as it is quite
opposed to old-time ideas of drastic purgation,
and acts thoroughly but gently and naturally
upon the liver, stomach and kidneys without any
discomfort at all. Be sure, therefore, that you
ask for California Syrup of Figs.
Emphasise the word CALIFORNIA when purchasing, and look for the circle Trade
Mark in Blue at top of package. From all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11. -
A Really Handsome
Boot
for
Gentlemen
at
27/6
This Stylish Balmoral is of Patent
Enamel Kid, and is selected from
our very best samples. It has a
Welted Sole, and has only the very
finest workmanship throughout.
Gentlemen will find a most hand-
some Dress Boot in the one illus-
trated, and its price is 27/6. Postage
in Victoria, 9d.; to any other State, 1/-
Send for our Booklet “ Shoelight,” with full de-
scriptions and prices of our finest footwear.
LEEMINC’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne ;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
WOMEN
SUFFER. MORE
THAN MEN.
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men. Ex-
cess fat takes away a
woman’s loveliness—"gives
her an ugly, ungainly ap-
pearance, impedes " her
gait, interferes with her maternal in-
stincts, injures her general health, and
makes life a burden.
99
FATCURE,
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable. It is non-poisonous and harm-
less. The fat when reduced does not return.
“Fateure ” is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe
and harmless treatment for Obesity. Send
2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample and
full particulars, or call if convenient.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, CABTLEREACH ST., SYDNEY. [32
“ No cooking,
add water A
only.” jW
/ IS AN
IDEAL FOOD
for infants, in-
valids, convales-
f cents, and the .
r aged. Easily di-
gested, strength-
ening and
soothing.
JThe
ood
hat
ver
or
ses.
* e d
thy
cow’s milk, malted
barley and wheat.
Sold by all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail
Stores, So., So.
Samples; 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
Horliok's Food CO,, Slotlghr Buaks; England.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V,, VI. Packet of Twelve, Is }
Packet of Ten, lOd.
RHEUMATISM
CUBED.
Thousands have proved that the
“ XJRIOA.”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
uess and kindred ailments. |
■ VTi muni ii^rr
umnnmiiwiiiiiiiiuniniiniiHB 1111111111 :
DH DIN BO
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a • complete
battery, which have an affinity fdr drawing
the uric acids to that part of the linger
that the ring is worn on, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
freeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 55.; Qold-
Filled, 55., 7s. 6d. and 10s. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required, or send for measurement card.
DUNKLING,
**■
MELBOURNE.
The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET,
sy
X
o*
fv
V
m£ M
&
/
ff/i
V” &
5V
5V
iTv"
©<Jr a~>
S’
29
Aj
<o
Sr
£S
S>
iv
'//.
AICOCK
Table
is the
monarch
• • Of •
Billiard
Tables.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store*
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtaitt j
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor)
W. G. HEARRE, Chemist, Geelong)
1 Victoria.
The Inky Way.
“ Pressman ” : Hansard exists presumably for the pur-
pose of letting the public have a verbatim report of the
proceedings of Parliament; but, as conducted by the
Governments of both the Commonwealth and the States,
this is precisely what it doesn’t do. Save as a record of
the votes and formal proceedings, Hansard might he
abolished. The speeches which appear in its pages re-
semble the speeches delivered in the Houses just as the
summing up of a Supreme Court Judge resembles the
evidence given before him by a series of particularly igno-
rant policemen and a batch of witnesses from the Rats’
Push. Chief of Federal Hansard Friend is particularly
well-named from the standpoint of the politician. Not
only are the halting, inconsequential, rambling utterances
of legislators generally dressed up out of all recognition
until they resemble Antony’s oration on the death of
Cajsar, but the “proofs” are additionally sub-edited by
the makers of the speeches, who carefully put in all the
epigrams they hear in the billiard room, and knock out any-
thing deemed inadvisable on reflection, or at the instance
of their party leaders. Bill Knox, Soapy Gray, Givens,
De Largie and the rest appear in Hansard as still, strong
calm leaders of men, capable of swaying multitudes by
the force of their diction ; but the said diction is the
very free translation of Friend and his staff in the vaults
of the building. It is not many years since a prominent
New South Wales politician roared “ It’s a damn lie ” in
theN.S.W. Assembly. To make sure that it would not
be contradicted later, the reporters of the two Sydney
morning papers went to Hansard room and savv the
proofs, in which it appeared in full. With this verifica-
tion they published it next day. The politician in
question rose when the House next met “in personal ex-
planation ” and denounced the report as a fabrication,
submitting Hansard —since revised by his own fair hands
—in proof of his disclaimer. If Hansard is worth pre-
serving at all, it is worth preserving’ as an accurate record,
and to be accurate it must set forth speeches just as they
are made. Then the voters would have a clearer
conception of the abilities of those who represent them,
and there would be a lot of new members after the next
election.
A fine bit of mixed indignation from Cooma Express
(N.S.W.): “Councillor Candsdell also spoke, but we
regret to state that; the typewritten copy of his speech
supplied to us was simply inellegible—none of our staff
could decipher it —hence it’s omission. If a summary of
the speech is supplied us for next issue which is illegible
we will be pleased to insert it.”
* * * *
“ Coalopolis ” : John Pascoe Favvkner established the
Launceston Advertiser in 1829, and the Melbourne Ad-
vertiser in 1838. Each paper had. four foolscap pages.
The first issues of the Port Phillip paper were in manu-
script. The first number appeared on New Year’s Day,
1838, and ran as followeth :
THE
MELBOURNE ADVERTISER
PORT PHILLIP AUSTRALIA
No. 1 Written For and Published by John P. Fawkner
January The Ist Monday 1838 Melbourne
Vol Ist.
“We do opine that Melbourne cannot reasonably re-
main longer marked on the Chart of advancing Civiliza-
tion without its Advertiser.
“ Such being our Imperial Fiat We Do intend there-
fore by means of this our Advertiser to throw the
resplendent light of Publicity upon all the affairs of this
New Colony, Whether of Commerce, of Agriculture, or of
the Arts and Mysteries of the Grazier, All these patent
roads to Wealth are thrown open to the Adventurous
Port Phillipians. All those sources of Riches are about to
(or already are) become accessible to each adventurous
Colonist. The future Fortunes of the rising Melburnians
will be much accelerated by the dissemination of intelli-
gence consequent upon the Press being thrown open here
But until the arrival of the Printing Materials we will by
means of the Humble Pen diffuse such intelligence as
may be found expedient or as may arise.
“ The Energies of the present Population of this
Rapidly Rising District have never been exceeded in any
of the Colonies of Britain. Its Giant-like strides have
filled with Astonishment the minds of all the neighboring
States, the Sons of Britain languish when debarred the
use of That Mighty Engine the Press. A Very small
Degree of Support timely afforded will establish a News-
paper here, but until some further arrangements are
made it will be merely an Advertising Sheet and will be
Given AWAY TO HOUSEHOLDERS.”
Most of the advertisements have reference to the
proprietor of the paper. Take, for instance, the follow-
ing :
“ Launceston Prices for Cash.
“The first Established Hutel in Melbourne, Fawktier’s
Hotel, being in possession of a large and Well Selected
Library of English and Colonial papers to a late date
Offers at once Mental and Bodily Refreshment unrivalled
in this quarter of the Globe. Lodgers allowed the use of
the Library Gratis. There are 7 English and 5 Colonial
weekly papers and 7 monthly and 3 Quarterly Reviews
from Britain.”
On the second page we read
“Wanted by the Commercial World at Williams Town
and Melbourne about 40 beacons, good Tea Tree stakes
would answer, to mark the channell for the outer
anchorage to the Town ; whoever will perform the service
shall be entitled to public thanks."
The only “ local ” is as follows
“Report has reached Melbourne that Cammerfield the
Murderer who was sent to Sydney to point out where
seven men were said to be murdered has killed the Two
Constables and one of the Soldiers who had him in Charge
& is now at Large in the Bush well mounted and armed,
A Party of Volunteers we learn are going into pursuit.”
After nine issues in manuscript, Mr. Fawkner was able
to collect a quantity of type, with which he produced his
10th number on March 5, 1838. The length was about
12in., and each of the four pages had two columns. But
the press laws were then very stringent. Two sureties of
£3OO must guarantee the respectability and proper
conduct of the paper. Then the publisher, editor and
printer were respectively bound personally to a very con-
siderable amount. The Government could also object to
an individual as surety, even though all pecuniary diffi-
culties were removed. In short, Mr. Fawkner was unable
to comply with these and other conditions, and the light
of Melbourne intelligence was suddenly extinguished.
A pair of new-comers (Thomas Strode, from the Sydney
Herald, and George Arden) then took over the Mel-
bourne Advertiser, and the eleventh number was pro-
duced by them on October 19, 1838, after Fawkner had
been silent six months.
Fawkner surmounted his difficulties, however, and got
the necessary sureties and some type, and started the Port
Phillip Patriot on Wednesday, 16th February, 1839.
As the remote ancestor t>f -the Melbourne Argus, the
1 Patriot deserves a mention. *
NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Morning came to my window all gay with a pomp of
gold.
I said, “ I will draw the curtains, 1 have loved the Night
of old.
“ Her eyes are dark as the cloud-wrack, and bright as
the clear star-shine ;
Her lips are red as the rubies, her breath is the breath
of wine.”
I said, “ I will draw the curtains, lest the peering eyes
of the Day
Should look through the gleaming lattice and scare my
love away.
“ Till the sun walk high to the nooning on a pavement of
sapphire light,
My head shall lie close-folded in the milky arms of the
Night;
“ Till the sun droop low to his setting in pillows of purple
and fire,
I will toy with the languorous tresses of Darkness and soft
desire ;
“Till the lone star ride on the mountain, and the voices of
dusk are clear,
And I rise with a poet’s h unger for the prose of my bread
and beer."
maoriland.
D. M. WRIGHT.


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic' importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied' with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy’for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, etc.
‘ LINSEEI) COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
‘CGAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Cements for broken and other articles.
MOUN TAIN FLAX (‘ Linum Catharticum ’ Trade
Mark) PI LLS. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound. Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
:WINCHESTER
!i-v
r* ~ •'/ '
i .. // /
/
:»!/' •.' // m
111 v
lf«>>
;> >
/i,
~ i 3
s'yi-j;
ITM ii
'Yn \l j'/ ■ 'C^r^V
?1
*>7
//ff
“REPEATER”
Smokeless Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Repeater” cases are
carefully and accurately
made and loaded with
high grade powder, shot
and wadding by exact
machinery. That’s why
they shoot so strong and
so uniformly and make
such even patterns.
Price considered no shot
gun cartridges on the
market equal them.
Try Them. Sold by All Dealers.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fret, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Con'sssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
f- . I
zs.mm.'n
<r
&WkQ
*y£s
£
MORRISS
IMPERIAL
n.EYE.
CURES
CAPILLARINE for Moustaches.
If you are anxious for a healthy and vigorous moustache,
start using CAPILLARINE to-aay. For a certainty, a
regular application ac night time will produce a full
moustache.
CAPILLARINE 10/6 A JAR, WRAPPED IN A PLAIN
COVER AND POST FREE THROUGH AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years..
Makes yen iO«K manly
ir-
W
1
/THer
The Ideal Winter Holiday Resort
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
AN ELECTRICALLY-LIGHTED AND STEAM-HEATED PALACE HOTEL
situated upon the most imposing outlook on the
BLUE MOUNTAINS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Now’s the Time for the Rest Cure and the full enjoyment of a quiet Holiday.
Telephones
j ,3 S
*
For Details apply —
City Office, 38 Castlereagh Street.
VERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR AND SHIRTS
are a safeguard against
COLDS AND CHILLS
during- the change of seasons.
VERTEX CELLULAR should always be worn next
the body.
Recommended by Doctors and Scientists all over
the world.
Write for Pamphlets and Illustrated Price Lists
Post Free.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—-
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
REGS lflftJt WAR
PLASMON is the nutritive substance of pure fresh milk in a
Highly recommended by medical men familiar with its conspicuous
ideal aid in Indigestion and many forms of Stomach Derangement.
dry, soluble form,
dietetic value. An
forms a complete diet in itself.
It aids the digestion and
greatly increases the nutri-
tive value of other foods with-
out affecting their flavour.
In addition to the original powder form of PLASMON this preparation may be had in a
variety of combinations —PLASMGN COCOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE, PLASfVUON
OATS, PLASMON BISCUITS, ARROWROOT, BLANCMANGE AND CUSTARD.
Plasmon increases the food value enormously. LANCET.
PLASMON LTD., LONDON.
AuG'!:iPtz.uscin Depot : 5 and T BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY*
*l*
\\
J*'
m
w.
w x
m
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modem remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
V
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning- or
blistering 1 , and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit £5OO to anyone proving
the contrary.
*6'ls a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
JLambago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept, io,
CASTI.EREAQH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH ft. COROORAN
OiFPISS HOURS: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send nie your Free Illustrated Book.
Name....
Add ress
.2


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
Anil Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £lB 18s. to £Bl 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
AKLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, he.., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SAMDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mki.houhnk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide h Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hkad Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling-. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon, C. .1. Roberts, 0.M.G., M. L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Purns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M. I’.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
gank of gorth (Jaeeoslaod
(Established 188 S.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. , . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY'.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Manly. Hornsby. , Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |}ei Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital ... £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS. DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Limited.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a dividend of 2s. per
share for half-year ended 31st, May last, is',now
payable at the Company’s Office, 81 Pitt Street,
Sydney. J. A. Minnett, Manager.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. —-
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT-S. W .
||]ont depieteO.il. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEAerit S t 74, SYDNEY
ANO AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, 'General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—SydneyHon. A. W. Meeks, Esq., M.L.C.
(Gibbs, Bright & Oo.) ; E. Vickery, Esq. ; J. Campbell-
Wood, Esq. : J. J. Allen, Esq. ; E. Laidley, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
EXECUTORS
The trustees.
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. K Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established, safe, reliable, and
h&miv to use.
Insist on haring NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem.
*ists. storekeepers, and by E. J>. MOIiRISON,
proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, ~tdnet.
Sample bottles and full particulars, by poet.
Is. 4d. {stamps, to make 5 gallons spray.
snipping.
3XT. XD. 31b.
(NOHD-DKI7TSCHKR LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to E£ry«pt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, Kondon, Antwerp, and Bremen.
*Twin-Scre\V Steamers.
To MANILA, YAP, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 25th AUG.
PRINZ SICISMUND 22nd SEPT.
MANILA 20th OCT.
Unsurpassed Seasroiner Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnaare, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Atrents,
Tel. 60S. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridsre-Rtreet.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
TuJMITKIh
Capital Paid-up . .. .. £455,003 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Aoet., E. 11. Matthkws
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches* in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
September 2.
RUNIC, 12,500' tons, to sail about
Septemuer 30.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Arwlication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Uav of Sailing.
. lJalgety ami Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Steamer. |'Tons. | Commander. | Leave Sydney.
« Twin Screw. f New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban ... From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
HOLIDAY
TO
. N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Clooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
M oresby and Makambo to
Por t Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
m
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address ■'for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Lit/., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking.
lank of Ifeui South (Dales.
EHTAm.IBII kd 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up'Capital £2,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,560,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,560,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. 0. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Kiciiakd Binnib, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Nqluiand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax. Kt.
Auditors * >' ALFRED 6. MILSON, Esq.
I William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., £.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The BanK allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on • Debentures ; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,470,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,670,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and 'New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
SKIN
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
o
M
E
R
O
Y
Keeps
the skin'
soft and
smooth and, by
nourishing it, eradi-
cates lines or wrinkles.
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd., 29, Old Bond Street,
London, England.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS. TO MELBOURNE
Will find everv comfort and convenience at —
fjRS. TOBINS,
Oueen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon afield Para da
ST. KILDA.
r |'HrC Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding--house in
the Colonies, Magnificent situation, facing: Beacjn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. Oity, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor!
George
St. Kilda,
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J, Steels,, Sole Acent.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, August 27.
(Accompanying American
Fleet to Melbourne.)
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
September 12.
BRISBANE,
MA'OKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
IS.S. Innamincka, Aug:. 29.
S.S. Yong-ala, Sept. 5.
Best anti Choonont. Itonto to <JoUlliol4.it.
saloon Passajre Tickets are interchangeable after the
first. Port of call witli other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE SIREET, SYDNEY.
fifIESSA GER/ES
IyjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, ii‘A/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 375. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, August 22.
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 29.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
KYARRA, noon, SATURDAY,
August 22.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNPABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, August 22.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
August 25.
BOMBALA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 29.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with' other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars oh application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHAR VES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THU BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS .
/lets like a charm in DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Eaoh Bottle-
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England — lil\, 2/9, 4/6,


Why drag in Chicago 1 Here is a descrip-
tion, sworn to in a Sydney police court, of a
suburban meat-preserving factory :
On July 15 the-place was in a filthy condition. There
were bass of meat there which fairly stank. Dirty meat was
lying on the floor, and quite a ton of meat refuse was
lying near the factory, and that was also stinking. A
large quantity of stale fat was lying under the tank, and
it looked as if it had been there for some days. The
floor was full of holes, and was in a wet and dirty con-
dition. The meat that was being walked on was being
packed in tins for export and home use.
The statement of the prosecuting inspector was
corroborated by Dr. Armstrong, the Medical
Officer of Health, and a Federal inspector. The
owner of the ptomaine factory didn’t even pretend
to offer a defence, and was let off by Barnett,
S.M., with a £4 fine, for no apparent reason
except that his lawyer said the place had been
cleaned up and the floor cemented since the issue
of the summons.
“ Locust ” writes :
In yours of 23/7/’OB you have an excerpt from a hair-rais-
ing- English magazine Australian story, in which the hero
pervades Berrrrritish country lanes in an outlaw’s cos-
tume, doing music-hall juggling with a stock whip,
throwing about nuggets of gold, and acting as the London
reader W'ants him to act, and would be disappointed if, he
didn’t act. But, outside of tales, the dreadful Australian
does some Stinking Fish costuming at times. I saw a
Tateer (London weekly) the other day, which had
various portraits of Mr. Druce, the claimant, “in his
Australian costume.” Mr. Druce had a very broad-
brimmed sombrero combination hat on his head, turned
up ala Jessop in front. Around his neck he had a Kanaka’s
kerchief—one of the variety you see on a repatriated
Solomon Islander. The local color of this was negatived
by a shirt, evidently fringed with beads and Indian
fluffy borders. A desperate belt, with revolver holsters,
showed nondescript trousers beneath. The picture did
not go low enough to reveal whether Mr. Druce wore
moccasins. Asia, North and South America, Africa, and
Polynesia, all contributed to the tout ensemble ; but nary
a bit of Australia, and the Tateer printed this quite
seriously.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established_i§49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand gpp- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
2
PER. CENT.
DON’T FORGET!
Our Capacious New
Stores containing
over Five Acres of
Floor Space, and
one of the Finest Show Floors in the Commonwealth, are completed, and ready
to receive your growing' clip.
OUR CONSOLIDATED WOOL SELLING CHARGE IS 2 Per Cent.
Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Go., Ltd
(A.
Co.
Ltd.)
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS
STOCK and STATION AGENTS
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
PER. CENT.
The Famous Remedy For*
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —From a strict sense
of duty I feel that I should publish thb following state-
ment, so that others may know what to do when the
awful fact is evident that a life is in danger of being
lost: —In September, 1906, my little girl, aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, and in the following
October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but' his treat-
ment was not successful* in arresting the progress of the
illness. On Saturday, the 21st October, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough, Pain and Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At this stage I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Hearrie’s Bronchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue of
Medicines which accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was an improvement from the first dose of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. The improvement continued after
each dose of the medicine. In a week she wag perfectly
free from the Pneumonia,' Congestion, Cough, Pain and
Fever,’ and was well, except that she was still weak. In
a fortnight she was quite recovered, and is now in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any person
asking for information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnessed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yours gratefully,
D. GARDINER,
Police Station, Geelong East, Feb. 5, 1908.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroughly Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief—Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—I was very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am
thoroughly cured. Its effect on me has been most
wonderful. I am 73 years of age. I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TRF.ZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA and PLEURISY
cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
I, Prudence M'Kee, of Carr-street, South Geelong, in
view of the importance of a person making it quite clear
what treatment was successful in curing a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows:
My son, Henry M'Kee, then aged 8 years, had been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and a
stoppage of the passing of Urine. Under the doctor’s
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At this stage I obtained from
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to the directions which accompany each bottle
of it. The child improved after the second dose of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve
each day frpm each dose of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days! he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorily. He was out of bed at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M'KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became
very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I
had been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill
to leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two
lots of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Bevere Case Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time,
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders
was frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
relief.. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where
I resided, told me of a medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure—from Victoria, • which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceased; but what is more astonishing, the pains from
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully.
J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne “Punch” Office, Melbourne.
ASTHMA-A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed.
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, wrote: —“After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I quite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
in recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1908, he states:—“l am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
I had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market —including asthma inhalations—without getting a
cure. It was 8 years ago that the cure was effected
by Hearne’s Medicine, and I now feel stronger than I
have felt for years—in fact. I feel splendid.”
C. WISEMAN,
Meredith, Victoria.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNERS Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving
the unsuspecting, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S, ana see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 26; Large Size, 4/6, Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally beneficial
for the youngest child and the most aged person.
G
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
Wenger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.*S.W.
&he LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE*
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
THE MAINE
Pifle
Shewing Pifle A parr
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
ICAN’T
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain Y back sight t f
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
Postage on one Rifle —Is 3d, N.S.W.; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
TOOTH’S XXX ALE is UNRIVALLED.
99
SO IS
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
PROPRIETORS,
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY
T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Isposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Lovis, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ,of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry' Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
[an His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
it
M
a Qk CUARAN^ S
Si
&
PIPES
AS SWEETASMUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from all Tobacconists,
THE- BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series IV., V., VI. Packet of Iwelve, Is ;
Packet or Ten, 10d. ’ Posted free> to any address.
Special rates to agents. The BUI-EKTI N Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Free!
2-ft. High
'm
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR H BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-Sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-oainted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye-, and represented with flesh-coloure i body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of bestmaterial rapid in itsaction, and
ecu-ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WHTCH
CHHIN and PEXOHNT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
I Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
, We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
‘ return the money 6/-, ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivallea.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Eoy’s Rif-'e.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd,
Circular Pointed.
Pens,
Seven
Prize Medals.
Workss Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Britisb=flustralasian
&
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d,
POST FREE, £t per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Beitish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It s the finest shilling s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth. *


are
*
■
IHTS^
r=Ti.i
uik
-3.
%
&
ft
5k
ft
Sr
&
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. to 25 H.P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalogue FREE.
PALMER BROS., cSSf.Sf#./..
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., Agents, Brisbane.
KNOWLES AUTOMOBILE & MOTOR POWER CO. LTD.,
Agents, Sydney.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon come
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/- i
HEINDORFF BROS
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments!
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2io Queen St., Brisbane
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
tN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A. 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—-Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne^
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21a.
The Eagle and the ’Boo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“T X TILL you come into our ’arbor?”
V V Said the courteous Kangaroo
To the Eagle, as he hovered
In the empyrean blue.
“ It’s the very finest ’arbor
That you ever chanced to view,
And I’ve what I call a 4 surplus,’
Which I'd rather like to 4 blew.’
“ If you’re thirsty, I can fix you
With most any kind of brew
From a ‘cocktai " to a ju. ep,’
Or a drop of 4 mountain dew * ;
“ And I’d love to hear you shrieking
* Hail Columbia ! ’ don’t you know,
And explaining and expounding
All the doctrines of Monroe.”
“ Thank yew kindly,” said the Eagle,
‘ ‘ Guess my throat is gittin’ dry
Jest with whoopin’ at an’ cussin’
The derned kentries I -kern by.
“ With your corjal invitation
I most willin’ly comply—
I’m blamed sure yew'll never sarve me
As the spider sarved the fly '
“Darn my crimson tail and talons,
An’ consarn my claws an’ beak !
Yew’re the cutest kind of critter
That I’ve raised inside a week.
“ ’Ow’s yer Pa, the British Lion ?
’E’s a ringtailed roarer jist.
Guess it’s quite a while, or seems so,
Since I gin ’is tail a twist.
“ Wot d’yer say, my son ?—let’s licker ?
I should smile ! Wal, rayther so.
Snakes ! Yew air a proposition
This yer chicken’s proud tew know. ”
“ Fill ’em up ! ” “ I’ll bet a dollar
An’ a half agin a dime
Yew an’ me kin lick creation
Into splinters every time.”
Quoth the Eagle, “ You’re a rustler,
Bet yer boots, yew ain’t no slouch ! ”
Then the pleased marsupial shouted
All the contents, of his pouch.
And they poured unnumbered cocktails
Down their joint and several necks,
Till the “surplus” was expended,
And the banqueters were wrecks.
And extremely lean and shrivelled
Were both pouch and Kangaroo—
Then the Eagle vanished (shrieking)
In the empyrean blue.
And the Kangaroo . . . but really
I would rather draw the veil
O’er the melancholy sequel
Of this tragic little tale.
Which—though something like a story
Which a nursemaid told to me,
Intimating how host spider
Asked a little fly to tea —
Is the converse of that legend
Of the spider and the fly,
For the guest , the lordly Eagle,
Drank the blamed Marsupial dry.
N. S.W.
IRONBARK.
By the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MAN was run ning along by the sea.
It was midday, and the sun, beating
down on the dazzling beach, made it in-
tolerably hot for the man’s feet, which were cut
and bleeding from a long scramble over the rocks.
So he turned and ran where the white lips of the
ocean, hissing and receding on the thirsty sand,
made a cool, wet pathway, along which he could
travel in comparative comfort.
Once, for a minute, he stopped and stood
ankle-deep in foam while he thought. Then he
said, very calmly : “ I’m glad I saved my shirt! ”
and ran on.
The man was undoubtedly glad that he had
managed to save his shirt—because it kept the
sun off his back. No doubt he would have been
glad to have saved his trousers as well, but even
a good swimmer is handicapped by a pair of pants,
and he had thrown them away when —How
long was it since the wreck ? He tried to think
as he stumbled and splashed through the seething
water, but the sun must have dulled his senses a
bit, for he found it impossible to focus his mind
on anything of recent date. Old, forgotten, use-
less things raced through his brain in an endless
film, obscuring and blotting out everything that
was new and alive and of use. So he decided to
try and remember when the night came, and his
head was cool.
The glaring white beach, with the wind-swept
cliffs behind, stretched away in an enormous half-
circle to where a black line of rock ran out into
the blue. With awful regularity, roller after
roller rushed in, swirled and burst in a cloud of
spray that left the fangs of the reef dripping and
glistening.
And the running man—with his brain going at
full speed—wondered how long it would be before
he reached the reef, and if he would find his
trousers there.
He had an idea the chances were against him,
because, of course, the ocean is big and deep ;
but, at the same time, he had a theory of his own
about the currents, and—he hoped. He couldn’t
remember when he had hoped so hard before.
He thought—in a dim sort of way—that if
he should find his own, or somebody else’s,
trousers therq on the edge of the water,
soaked and full of sand, he would snatch
them up and rush somewhere and hide, while they
dried on a rock. And after that ? Well, he
couldn’t remember eating anything, and his throat
was very dry, so he would probably die. But
with his trousers on.
He was nearing the reef. As he stumbled on,
the thunder of the breaking seas blotted out his
random thoughts—till a chill gust of wind from
round the face of the cliff blew his shirt over his
head.
Then he blushed furiously and hastily rearranged
his garment with one hand, while he shook his
other fist at the unheeding sea.
“ Damn !” he yelled. “ Oh-h DAMN ! ”
The wind snatched the words from his lips and
hurled them up and over the cliff. The big,
green seas came solemnly in, thundered on the
reef, stretched hissing at his feet, and glided back.
The man, humiliated and beaten, turned to go
on, gasped, and then shouted desperately :
“ Oh, my God ! No ! ”
The wet, bare girl fell sobbing on her knees
before him.
“ Save me !” she wailed. “ Oh, DO save me !”
He fumbled madly with the collar of his shirt.
It had the top button off and showed a portion of
his chest. Then he glared wildly down at her
glistening back and asked huskily :
“ I—what—oh, where are your things? ”
She looked up at him with brown eyes that
swam in tears.
“I—l haven’t” !
“ What!”
“ I—l haven’t got any ! ”
The man leaped behind a convenient rock gnd
peered over the top of it at her as she knelt sob-
bing in the sand.
“ But,” he expostulated, “ you—-oh, damn it,
you mustn't go round like that
She sprang to her feet, wild with indignation.
The man howled, and sank down behind the
sheltering rock.
“How dare you!” sobbed the girl. “I
haven’t —haven’t got any rotten clothes—or—or
I’d w-wear them ! You —know that v-very
well ! ”
f rom behind the rock came a groan and an
apology.
“Look here—l’m sorry, really! I didn’t
mean”
The answer was a half hysterical scream of rage !
and a torrent of reproach.
“ How DARE you ! It’s all very well for you
to talk ! You saved something from the wreck,
and—and ” —more sobs — h-hide 1-like
a p-perfect beast and allow me to go about 1-like
this ! ”
Instantly, from behind the rock, came a sound
often heard in drapers’ shops, and a second later
something soft flashed through the air and fell at
the girl’s feet.
“That’s your share,” said a voice, and they
busied themselves with their separate toilets.
“ Er—may I come out now ? ”
The girl wheeled and looked fixedly at the
opposite end of the bay. “Yes,” she murmured.
There was a silent interval.
Then the man said, “ I hope you’re satisfied
now ! ”
“ Satisfied ! ” * - -
“Well, you’ve got half, anyhow ! ”
“ Thank you,” faltered the girl, without look-
ing round.
Then conversation flagged again.
Suddenly the man had an idea. He said :
“Hadn’t we better look round a bit ? ”
The girl looked out over the sea. The sun
nad disappeared behind a heavy cloud, and the
ocean was a deathly grey.
She turned with a sob, and caught his out-
stretched hand.
They walked together down the strand.
Of course, they were rescued and married —in
time. That was inevitable in a highly moral
story such as this.
But the peculiar part is, that whenever she tells
him she wants some clothes But of course,
as far as that goes, it’s all peculiar.
KODAK.
Back to the Islands Again.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’M back to the Islands again,
The haunts of the indolent men :
To rest and to quiet,
To sweet, simple diet,
To charms that no writer can pen ;
Remote from “the madding crowd’s ” ken,
I’m back in the Islands again.
I’m watching the natives, once more,
Surf-ride to their coraline shore ;
And pity prim town-folk.
Comparing these brown folk
Who money’s enslavements ignore.
And, only by health setting store,
Are careless and gay as of yore.
While I, too, am brimming with song ;
My pulses are quickened and strong.
Excuse this outpouring,
A tribute adoring,
To lands I have loved and lost long.
Old memories stir in a throng.
I’m back where I truly belong.
Still isles, where flows Lethe for me,
I dream by the boom of your sea.
Jove’s glories have lit you,
I never will quit you
If Fate and desire can agree;
But under the cocoanut tree
My ultimate dwelling shall be.
For he who has once known the spell
Of palm-crest and reef, and the smell
Of the green, spiceful shore
As it floats to him o’er
Gemmed waters, in hail or farewell,
May never thereafter repel
Such longings as make the heart swell;
And can’t be indifferent when,
Escaped from some city’s close pen,
An unrestrained rover,
He sails the seas over
’Way back to the Islands again.
Shall he not in gratitude then
Thank God for His Islands? Amen !
NUKUALOFA, TONGA.
TALAFEKAU.


There is nothing 1
good digestion.
in all this world so important to you as
Food must he eaten to sustain life, and
must be digested and converted into blood. When the digestion
faiis the whole body suffers. To cure indigestion the root-
iaiis t trouble—the LlVER—must be regulated and
caiise r.pvfect working order. Bile Beans are the only
restore P thoroughly reliable cure for indigestion.
They* 1 regrJatthe°flow of bill purify the blood promote the
liver to Wealthy action, tone up the stomach, stimiila
e-lands which secrete the gastric juice, thus promoting
-whole internal economy to natural and healthy e 01 , w
Indigestion becomes a worry of the past.
A Timber-Cutter’s Gratitude.
“When a voung man,” says Mr. David Adams, of.
Middlebrook, Scone. N S.W.. “ I spent several year
in the bush timber-cutting, etc. lhe rougn living,
Pxnosure and hard fare-consisting for the most part
of beef and damper— brought on indigestion
°f cornea Biliousnea £ I suffered agonies, and
almost wished sometimes I were dead. 1
was recommended by a friend to
try Bile Beans, and have much
pleasure in stating that they
completely cured me. It
is vears now since I have had any trouble wit 1
my digestion; and biliousness, too, is also a
thing of the past. I always recommend Bile
Beans to my friends, and in fact to all who
may be in need of a reliable medicine.
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY.
Are you troubled with any of the following
complaints? Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, Piles, Bad Blood, Nausea, Belching,
Debility, Nervousness, Bad Breath, Wind,
Anaemia, Pimples, Dizziness, Fulness After
Meals, or any ailment arising from Liver,
Nature’s these complaints, and banisn tnem promptly and permanently.
Obtainable from all chemists and stores, at 1/11 per box, or 2/9 family s, «<contem ,n g three
times the quantity). Be sure you ask for Bile Beans, and see that you get them.
X
\
I
9
Yl,
mdm/?ad)aa?%Jd7d
tfdtmt/ 7 Y<f
r £Md
The Passing of Antonio.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT the chiming of eleven Sour Face
rose stiffly from her machine, and started
on “buttons.” But she first applied her
ear to the dividing wall. This habit had lately
become fraught with keen possibilities, for the
“next doors” were, in the vocabulary of Ring’s
Alley, “queer fish,” and might kick over the
traces at any moment.
A dreary moaning met her ear.
“Not home yet,” she remarked to the blouse
she was working upon. “Flighty Jezebel —an’
him that bad ”
Snappishly she bit her thread, and gave thanks
that she was not ’andsome. “Gawd only knows
what I’d ’a’ bin now—’stead of a respectable mar-
ried woman, an’ Mack’s ‘best outdoor.”’
The blouse made no reply, and Sour Face,
stabbing at it with her needle, affixed its tape
and ticket in silence. Was that someone going in
next door? Instantly her neck, apparently more
replete with joints than the average, was thrust
out of the window. ' With practice, this neck had
attained the suppleness of a snake’s. It now
enabled her, though facing bodily south, to turn
her eyes and inquisitive nose uncompromisingly
north, and into “next door’s ” interior.
She viewed the chaotic kitchen, and had a
glimpse withal of the inner apartment, candle lit,
wherein lay Antonio, sick unto death, and making
wearisome moan, such time as he was not calling
with madtfening persistence for “Katrin.” His
bare feet: restlessly shuffling, met the fascinated
gaze of Sour Face—likewise his gaunt arms, the
angular rise and fall of which she likened to
semaphores.
Beppo ajid Rinaldo she saw too, curled up like
puppies, their dimpled faces closely resembling
those winged cherubs which crowded the shelves
and ran over into untidy heaps upon the floor.
Everywhere liiy Art in the rough mounds and
tins of coarse whitish powder, petrified and
brittle, pails of grey-white liquid, and moulds
kicked with the contempt of famdiarity into
squalid piles. One, the head of Garibaldi, open
at the hinge, caught the overflow from a bag of
onions. „
The dresser shelves held completed Gems
gilded and white gipsies, tambourine boys who
shouldered plaster casts of sacred subjects,
" shrines ” suspended on a string. The Madonna,
probably a “good seller,” was stacked in dozens
underneath the stairs, along with high stepping
plaster of Paris horses and impossible toreadors
lunging at non-existing bulls.
Rinaldd, having gone to sleep hungry, had
dreams of a wolf devouring his stomach, and
whimpered dismally. The watcher saw Beppo,
the elder, sticky with dirt and bemused with
sleep, take upon his baby shoulders the duties of
nurse— saw him dive into the commissariat and
feed his charge, then clamber back to bed and sink
into the land of Nod.
His father, busy with imaginary statuettes,
heard nothing, ilis head rolled ; his face was
beaded with sweat.
“It’s a cruel shame,” croaked the watcher in
her throat, “them pore innercents, and”
She broke off, and adopted hasty precautions
against detection as “next door’s” front opened,
and Emamielo bumped his way in.
Emanuelo’s attire was once vivid, his suit of
velveteen .-once brown, the handkerchief knotted
round his throat once crimson. Bluchers had re-
placed the’buff leggings which not so long ago
encased his calves. Gold rings pendulated from
his ears. -He had lean, swarthy cheeks and melt-
ing eyes of black. , .
His old-hat, pressed to his eyebrows by his
loaded tray, concealed another ’kerchief worn as a
head covering. Beneath that, his jetty hair
called aloud for the barber.
The snaky neck of Sour Face again brought her
gimlet eyes into line.
Manufelo, tiptoeing among the litter, tended
Antonio with gentle clumsiness. After placing
upon Antonio’s breast a small tin crucifix, and
closing over it the plucking fingers, he ate and
drank ravenously of sour wine and mouldy cheese.
Then he softly stepped into the street’s darkness
and was gone. , .. „ „
The watcher, realising drama to be oil, re-
turned to her blouses. „ , lL A ,
“ Pore young chap ! Gone to find that ussy
lignin ! Huh ! Beauty s a snare, if you arst me !
She’s a bad lot, but pretty as a damast rose,” re-
marked the toiler, within whose bosom the flower
of poesy still bloomed. “ An’, like a damast rose,
she’s got a canker in ’er ’eart. As for that pore
Maneyellow —Huh !” ... ,
She worked on till nearly blind. Then she
made the ascent of the stairs. "Within the sanctity
of her apartment she arrested her hair on suspicion
and gaoled it in iron curlers. Then she prepared
to enter her bed. ~,
Within it lay The Man Who Couldn t Get
Work, His head, cone-shaped and bald, nestled
snugly upon the pillow of his supporter.
Sour Face slapped the cone spitefully. Mur-
muring sleepy seditions he dare not utter by day,
the man turned his face to the wall, and Sour Face
creakingly laid herself down and awaited the sleep
that was coy and long in coming. For Antonio’s
moans, sandwiched between mental calculations
of the “dozens” finished and “dozens’ yet
uncut, which chased each other through her ex-
cited brain, soon reduced her to a state of frenzy.
In that nervous condition she committed un-
provoked assaults upon such portions of her
companion as came handy. Her very soul cried
aloud for sleep. „ , . , „
“It’s no use, Sour Face,” whispered Convic-
tion at last. “Might as well get up.” And Sour
Face did so—and flapped her way, a nightmare
figure, adown the stair.
Hush ! What was next door saying ? A husky
monotone replied: “ Twelf Madonnas twelf
geepsy—twelf antelobe.” Then, with long-drawn
wail. “ Katree-nah—Katree-nah ” .
“Lors!” ejaculated the listener, her hair
rising. “The man’s deeleerious—’n’ no doctor!
Seems to me it’s a case for the p’leece. Ugh !
There ’e goes agen; off on the same old bus-track
with ’is Madonnas ’n’ ’oly persons.”
Breathlessly she listened. “Twelf Madonnas,
chanted Antonio ; “twelf geepsy—Katree-nah.’
Even the curiosity of Sour Face could endure
the dismal sounds no longer. She took flight,
and after again inflicting punishment upon the
vagrant cone, slipped all unaware into dream-
Into this paradise, harsh-voiced devils broke ere
long—cat-like squeals, moans and grumbling
notes of bass.
Waking Sour Face realised that a row was
“on” next door, and that she was missing it.
She crowded sleep, protesting, to the back of her
head, and flapped hurriedly to the post of
e Tn° n th| e gaslight Manuelo was seen, very angry,
with ugly, yellow points gleaming in the depths
of his eyes. With savage grip he held the round,
bare arm of Katrin, and savagely he shook her.
Katrin was a mere fury. A torrent of shrill
justification tumbled from her lips. She rolled
her eyes so much that the spy upon her perch
prophesied a permanent squint.
“I wee! danze,” screamed the virago. For
what sail me stay ’ere?” Scornfully indi-
cated her surroundings. “ For ’eem ! (at
another groan from her lord). She raged round
the little den with much swaying of hips and
silken skirts.
“’Eem! ’E ees too oldt. I ’ate ’eem—Christus.
9 ow I ’ate ’eem ! ’E cannod danze ’e cannod
work ! I ” she clapped her ring-laden fingers
toher breast with superb self-appreciation. .
Katrin, work all day makin’ dese ’ (spurning a
meek-eyed angel) “ an’ spoil my pr-retty anas to
keep’eem an’my bambino. An’what tanks. What
tanks? Does ’e say ‘ Well-a-done, my leettel
Katrin?’ Christus, noh ! ’E say noding! K
’as de bad ches’. ,’E do noding but gr-roan .
An’ de Englees I spik—is ’e please? Noli .
Like a bambino, my chatterr, ’e say, an send me,
all-a-day wit Our Lady from ’ouse to ouse, an no-
whon buy. The Signoras say ‘ Nod to-day, I hat
noh schange’—de lie—an’ de Signors say ‘Oerrout
—to me, Katrin. Christus, lam seeck of it. iuU
one-a-day, I come to Signor Jim-meeßr-rown—
ah, de fine gallanta ! ’E train de yorse—e mak
de book, ’e cr-rack de wheep”
She closed her eyes in hero worship a moment
and resumed in ecstasy.
“ An’ de Signor Jim-mee, e laff an say, Dam-
mee. if eet is nod cfe leettel Italiano ! Ha, ha .
gif me de Aunt Sally,’ ’e say. An’ ’e buy Our
Lady.’ an’ fire cor’rrks at er. Ah, de fine
gallanta” ,
Her tirade came to a sudden stop as Manuelo,
dropping miserably into a chair, hid his face and
wept unrestrainedly. Then in a moment Katun
the virago became, Katrin the suppliant. Sinking
beside him she coaxed and wheedled, and, with
cajoling eyes, implored his blessing.
“Manuelo, gif me plessure an’ life, an 1 stay
wit you ! Am I yet a girl an’ a pr-retty girl.
An’ secli a whon can haf lohver, Manuelo mio as
I was tole a-many time. For „you, I will stay
pur-rhaps—eef you loaf me, Man - ■ .
“Temptress!” shouted Manuelo, lns
fist and making the Cupids jingle. “By C’r’i,
sech a rrow—sech a chadder ! You work all-aday.
Yes, at de lookin’glass —an gif eem noding.
Noh !_nor remember ’ee’s feesick for de fevah.
You to come to Manuelo, ’ee’s brothah, wit your
dam talk of lover. By C ri’ I keek you .
He made a savage lunge, but Katrin, skipping
nimbly from him, held her round waist and
laughed.; cried) an( j shook her uncoiled hair
in his face. “ Temptress ! Ha, ha ! Haf you no
sof’ words for me to-night, Manuelo, my jealous
one ? You tink you lof me nod—but I can reat
you deSe a-many times. You’ face betrray you—
your eyes devour poor Katrin not for eem (she
glanced towards her lord), “would you kip me
prisoner? Noh! You lof me? Ees it nod so,
Manuelo?” she wheedled in a-voice-of silver.
“ For you I stay ’ere—for ’eem, nevair.”
“Shut your mout,” threatened Manuelo, sore
“ Shut it for me,” smiled she, impudently.
But Manuelo, seizing her by the arms, pushed
her into the sick mail’s room, shut the door, ahd
being no eight hours’ man, set to work on a gross,
of crucifixes. . , ~ -i
Just then Katrin, displaying shoulder and
ankle liberally, hastened the departure of Sour
Face bv a dab of plaster qf Baris dexterously
thrown against her peephole. The plaster ren-
dered her optic useless for further espial. •
“Taka dat, ugly one,” screamed Katrin,
having by occult means divined the watcher s pre-
sence, “an’ mine your own beeziness.”
Sour Face slept late next day. The sun was
high, and The Man Who Couldn t Get Work had
already gone to swell the ranks of the loafers in
the park. All was quiet next door.
Sour Face noted that Antonio called for Katrin
no more—nor did he rave of plaster antelopes and
clay crucifixes. ~ , : ,
The dirty bambino, questioned through a
broken paling, told of Manuelo. “’E come soon
bring Beppo fish in ees pocket. Dadda better
now —sleepa now.” _ ,
Craning from the old post, Sour Face saw the
gaunt outlines, and the motionless yellow claws
clasped upon the crucifix, and thought it might be
Coming from Mack s, later, bowed neath
bundles of “ unmade dozens,” she was unaware
of an approaching hansom till the strong, ready
hand of Constable Malone dragged her almost
from beneath its wheels. Dazed and breathless,
she still caught a glimpse of the occupants of the
gyes an( j fl as hing teeth were those
of Katrin. Beside her, leaning forward to inspect
the sordid obstacle in his path, was a person whose
tallish hat of clay color and padded shoulders of
noisy check were his insignia.
The villain of the drama threw a coin, ilie
dignified arm of the law concealed it in his cloth-
ing. The crowd dispersed. Sour Face was dis-
missedtwith a caution to the effect that she had
long been a suspected character.
Panting home, she was confronted by ihe Man
Who Couldn’t Get Work. He was unwontedly
important, and his vest was unbuttoned. _
“ Somethin’ wrong in there, M na. He jerked
his head backwards. “Kids yellin’ like dmgos
jest now. It’s my belief the cove’s snuffed out.
“ Wha-aat! ” shrilled the toiler.
“Chucked it!. Thrown a seven! Best duck
fer th’ p’leece.” , ,
He covered the cone and prepared to depart.
“ Wait,” commanded his supporter.
But the man was out of hand. His moment
had come. He rose in insurrection and went
leaping for the constabulary.
Then Sour Face entered next door—openly,
boldly through the broken paling. It was no
time for niceties of etiquette. Within, Beppo
and Rinaldo were moulding horses. Sour Face
quakingly entered the other room.
Antonio was dead—awfully, grotesquely dead.
His fingers clutched the crucifix. Upon his head
Rinaldo’s cap, thrown in play, had fallen. His
feet hung stiffly from the coverings.
True to the traditions of Ring’s Alley, Sour
Face gave vent to her feelings in shrill screams.
“ P’leece ! ” she cried, “ P’leece ! ’
As if in answer, Constable Malone, led by an
important person with a bald head, entered.
Manuelo, his face ashen, his tray dragging
behind him, was met by eager informants. One
brought forward the frightened children. Another
pushed into his hands a note “writ.in a foreign
’and,” she said darkly. At his grief-stricken face
Sour Face wept.
“Stand back,” said Constable Malone, “here
is the next of kin.”
Manuelo, with an awful cry, fell forward. The
scrawl, which set forth that Katrin had fled with
Jimmie of the large check suit, fluttered to the
ground.
WEEROONA.


For Your Protection.
OILSKINS.
“ Oilclad ” Long Regulation .. 10/6
“Titan’’Long Regulation .. 12/6
“ Dugong ” Long Regulation .. 17/6
** Titan” Suits (Jackets & Pants) 12/6
“ Rainbow ” Watershed .. .. 22/6
“ Dugong ” Watershed .. .. 27/6
Write for a copy of our Catalogue No.
17, which contains full details.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd..
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RABBIT
DESTROYERS
will clear the run in
a few weeks. Now
used all overN.S.W.
SPRAYERS
will save a Pastoralist 10 per cent, of his
breeding ewes if sprayed before lambing.
TYREE LTD., 31* GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill ior
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv comnressed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rook Drills.
solvents: w & LEMPRIERE,
606 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES y
ft
Write for
“ B”
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
MATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
K Celebrated
) PLATE and
)CUTLERY
"" * r^K
®£3OOQ
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
Qh£ Abb
or
• M Ax
'<Uo
S »•(
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
a,so at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,’’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J, Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
JOHN HURST & CO., 4 Hunter Street, SYDNEY
Watchmakers and Jewellers, TELEPHONE 5177.
Mat-Virtue
SHEEP SHEARING MACHINERY.
NOW is the time to place
MODERN SHEARING
fIACHINERY in your
Woolshed, and profit by
the advantage of fIACHINE
over BLADE SHEARING.
n-V. fIACHINES give the
GREATEST
SATISFACTION.
Head
Office:
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED, 7 Bent Street, Sydney.
SUPPLIES and DUPLICATES obtainable from
our Agents throughout Australia.
Sub-Agents :
VICTORIA: D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing- Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing(W.A.) Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles.”
itaniii
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
carry Large Stocks of
Modern Machine Tools,
Lathes, Radial Drills, Steam
Hammers, Shapers, Millers.
AGENTS FOR
AMERICAN TOOL WORKS CO., Cincinnati.
DEMPSTER, MOORE & CO., Glasgow.
m
m
THE NEW KINC REVOLVING ORE SCREE
The most successful Screen yet devised. Simple and effective. Requires little
power and few repairs. Occupies small space. In short, a perfect Sizing: Machine.
SOLE L/CENSEES
AND MANUFACTURERSs
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and Melbourne.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
used it. Previous to that I
was in very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.”
Mrs. E. Harrison,
Gawler, S. A.
£
A
When tired and debilitated, with
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER’S 3 arsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you are
not persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
“just as good.” See that you get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
FREE
CARDEN SEEDS
T* NO
MONEY
WANTED
TH order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
into every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES and
TAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT, RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD KINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE
to the -alue of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have
to dc « to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 2, assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d.
per packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand list.
WE TRUST YOU-THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
.delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
H ’
M//
liil
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co, 52 BOND ST SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours,
MW
Eacfr Capsule bears the name
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY*
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/t J A 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT ft Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
GOUT
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy -which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In u«e sinoe 1588.
CURES'
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
m a FOR a a
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
M
COLORED
and
$W G
POST CARDS.
us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
r . D^? kets > each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
rorH DS t 0 Sell for us ’ at 6< *. P er packet. When you have so.d the
. eturn us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
presentyou may choose fr- m the list of jewellery which we forward
n?rlT?^ continu ' n S the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY'S
1«.5 SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
o f ?, r use ' Slr -VER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
CA ?EI> MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies' or Gent.’m
- CAS ® S replete with every toilet requirement, and
tner exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
: °“ can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
0,1 cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
* ma * e y° u this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
P st cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
NOMMr? Mei e i? pos * t ’ vely a * represented in our illustrations. SEND
money. Your name and address are all we want.
V/V
fEfjcooo luck |EE%
POST CARD C?, 126 O'CONNELL ST,S> ONEY.
m
m
m
j-,.
Wmmm
m
D
mm
60u(
ears
y™
see
what
we
mean
s
The Average Sceptic
is a hard man to convince.
The Windmill Sceptic is harder, because
he has used the old style of mill (which
has remained unchanged in principle since
first invented), and received little benefit
from it.
We desire to draw his attention to a
new Windmill which has a bearing on
EACH SIDE of the windwheel, to make
it easy running and long lasting; a large
sail area, to catch the light breeze; and is
very strongly built, to withstand the gale.
One inspection will make him as enthusiastic in
its praise, as it has all the present users of
the Windmills manufactured by
The Steel Wings Windmill Go. Ltd.,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
Drop a post card for Illustrated Catalogue
to Department E.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift.
MEN
A NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and _ Co., .Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 602 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long,
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. JVo similar book has ever been published.
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out. , „ , . , „
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men s special Ailments”
on receipt of this adversisement. /Vote Address
FREE
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elm ley House/ 9
151 Elizabeth-st.,
_ HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


THE BULLETIN WHITE ARMADA SUPPLEMENT
THURSDAY, AUGUST 20, 1908.
The Port o’ Call.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OUR hull is seldom painted,
Our decks are seldom stoned ;
Our sails are patched and cobbled
And chains by rust maroned.
Our rigging is untidy,
And all things in accord —
We always sail on Friday
With thirteen souls on board 1
For all the days save Friday
Were days of dark despair—
The fourteenth died of fever
Whenever he was there.
Our good ship is the Chance-It—
Her oldest name of all ;
But, in the ports we’re blown to,
She’s called the “ Port o’ Call.”
Our captain, old Wot Matters —
Our first mate, young Hoo Kares,
Our cook is Wen Yew Wan Tit,
And so the Chance-It fares.
The sweethearts, wives, and others,
And all we left behind,
Have many names to go by—
But mine is Never Mind.
We fear no Hell hereafter,
We hope for no reward—
We always sail on Friday
With thirteen men on board.
And every wind’s a fair wind,
That suits us, one and all,
And every port we’re blown to
We call our port-of-call.
Our hull is never painted,
Our decks are never stoned,
The cabin air is tainted,
The good ship is disowned ;
Our-rigging is untidy,
And all things in accord—
We always sail on Friday,
With thirteen hands on board.
We care not where we’re bound for,
Nor how the storm may howl ;
For every wind’s a fair wind,
And every, wind a foul.
There’s nothing left to sail for,
Save that we keep our decks,
And watch for other castaways
On rafts from other wrecks.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Shepherd Kings of Canter-
bury.
FLORA O’ DOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Macdonald o’ Doon” was a celebrity in
Old Canterbury, also a curiosity. He
A was a Shepherd King, and flagrantly
Scawtch. Any other Scotsmen who were also
kings were mere Lowlanders —Saxons, ye ken ;
the Macdonald was the only true Hielan’man
between the Hurunui River and the Waitaki.
And Canterbury, intensely English as it was, was
iproud of its Macdonald o’ the Doon, regarding
him as a brand snatched from the burning and an
interesting specimen of an alien race. Occasionally
in his honor it dressed some of its kids in kilts for
the Christmas picnics, and almost every Shepherd
Queen in Canterbury wore a Tam-o’-shanter cap in
the evenings. These compliments the Macdonald
reciprocated by treating his visitors to haggis,
oatmeal cake and kail soup, of which soup he
spoke as “ them.” If his guests stayed for the
night, he sent them to bed filled to the brim with
Athol brose.
The household at Doon consisted of the Mac-
donald himself, Margaret' his wife, and their
daughter Flora. Margaret, usually known as
Margaret o’ Doon, was a tall bony woman, said
to have been at one time handsome, and was of
considerable importance, being the recognised
society head of the Scotchbyterian Kirk in Canter-
bury. Flora was a tall, handsome, blue-eyed
girl, with a straight nose of the Grecian statue
type. Like most girls of the Old Canterbury
squattocracy, she was highly accomplished, the
Macdonald having imported governesses for the
purpose of making her the star wife of the pro-
vince.
The Macdonalds did not entertain largely,
owing to the Puritanical instincts of Margaret.
She “feared” for the effects on Flora, in whom
she detected a distinct leaning to worldliness.
The gatherings at the homesteads for the tennis
tournaments were the occasion of much scandal,
for the Shepherd Queens were not models
of rectitude, and Margaret o’ Doon, who
had never had a love affair in her life, was
anxious that her daughter should have the
same terrible experience, so she neither attended
tennis tournaments nor gave any. Now, in Old
Canterbury, to be out of the tennis tournaments
FLEET WEEK IN SYDNEY.
“No! You can't have a room to yourself ,
nor you can't have a bed; but there's
one of the pantry shelves not let."
was to be out of the world ; so Margaret had a
lonely life, and her daughter a still lonelier one.
Naturally, the girl fell back on books, and,
amidst the ferny recesses of Scotsburn Creek, she
drank in romance by the volume. Her Highland
imagination ran riot, and, to her, Canterbury,
with its blue mountains piercing the skies, its roll-
ing plains dipping down to the chrysoprase sea,
its false sunsets in the eastern sky in autumn and
winter, and its semi-feudal system, was an
enchanted land.
Comparatively speaking, The Doon was a
humble homestead, and boasted none of the
splendors of Tarahaoa, Peel Forest, Mount Peel,
Rangihape or the glorious Wilderness. Of these
splendid homes Flora learned only from passing
visitors at first, and then Jane MacVviiliam came
from the lofty pre-eminence of head parlormaid at
Tarahaoa to be wife of the gardener at The Doon.
Jane had an imagination ; and rackety as Tara-
haoa was morally, it was nothing like the pictures
[ane drew. At first she let her imagination have
its head somewhat to the servants of the house,
then to Flora, and finally to Mrs. Macdonald her-
self. And when her mistress encouraged her to
speak of the dreadful place and the goings on
thereat, Jane spoke with all her heart and all her
might.
So to Flora Macdonald Tarahaoa became the
home of the great queen, the beautiful resort of
glittering sin, and it blazed in her imagination as
did Babylon in the minds of the ancient Jews —
wicked and alluring. She would have given her
skin to have been able to look on at the revels
there, unseen and secure. But she had no hope,
for so impressed was Mrs. Macdonald by Jane’s
lurid descriptions that she would have slain her
daughter with her own hand rather than see her
go to that awful place.
* * * *
When Margaret and Flora left Christchurch on
the long drive to The Doon, it was a clear, breath-
less morning. Donald, the driver, drove the
cattle furiously till Margaret called out that he
“ munna drive at sae sair a gait.”
Donald was nettled. He gave his mistress
back talk. Didna’ he ken what he was doin’ ?
Didna’ she ken there’d be a nor’-wester before
nicht? An’ didna’ she ken that meant melt-
ing the snaw in the ranges and nae bridge ower
the Rangitata ? Hoots !
And Margaret subsided, for the bridge over the
Rangitata was a weird suspension affair that only
crossed the main stream when the river was nor-
mal, and ended right in the middle of a raging sea
when it was in flood. So Donald drove more
furiously than ever. And as he galloped them
along, the wild nor’-wester came howling behind,
blowing the waggonette so fast that all the horses
had to do was keep in front of it.
They stayed the night at Rakaia, where the
wind shook the Ir tel with gusty shocks. In the
morning Donald got away early, rousing his
charges before daybreak. Another wild gallop
brought them to the Rangitata at midday,
and from the top of the terrace Donald looked
down on the roaring flood that had spread far
beyond the approaches to the bridge, and swore
fluently in Gaelic. The bridge was impassable.
He drove seven miles up the river to where
The Wilderness people had installed a punt
which ran on a steel wire. It would not take
vehicles, but he could get His passengers and
their luggage across by it, borrow a vehicle from
one of the stations on the other side —Peel Forest,
for preference —and leave their own turn-out at
The Wilderness till the river went down, which
would probably be in about ten days or a fortnight.
* * * *
While her mother was taking her leave at The
Wilderness, Flora wandered down to where the
man waited in the punt. Half the portmanteaux
were in it. Flora took her seat in the stern.
Finding he would have to make two trips, she
ordered him to put her across.
The current ran strongly, and tugged at the
boat viciously. The man became alarmed. He
had never known the river so high before, nor had
he ever known it to drag at the boat so strongly.
The rope creaked and groaned under the strain.
Three parts of the way across it snapped suddenly,
and the boat spun round and then plunged madly
down the stream just as Margaret o’ Doon and
Mr. Greville appeared on the northern bank.
With a fearful oath, the man grasped a pole,
and tried to steer the boat on to a shingle bar in
front. But the swirling current snatched it away
to mid-stream faster than a racehorse and with
the force of 10,000 locomotives.
On the northern bank Mr. Greville tore his
hair, and Margaret, on her knees, screamed de-
mands at the Almighty. Donald danced round,
howling in Gaelic. And then the boat vanished
in sheen and distance, lost to sight amid dancing
waves and shimmering shingle.
Flora clung to the side, dazed. The man
watched for a chance of running ashore, his heart
in his mouth, for he knew that at the first rapid
they came to the vessel would go to pieces. Sud-
denly he turned and tied Flora to the grating on
which her feet rested.
“ Don’t try to battle with it. Just go with the
stream, and use your hands to try and paddle to
the shore when the smash comes, Miss,” he said,
politely, and then turned and gripped his pole.
As he did so the waves hurled the boat against
a great boulder ridge, splintering it to fragments.
Flora found herself in the water. She looked
round for the man to help her, and saw a white
face near her own, heard a cry of agony, a grind-
ing of great rocks, and then the sky flew round.
Half-drowned, tossed, rolled over and over,
Flora wondered how long the agony would en-
dure. She knew the man was dead —that cry
told that he had been nipped by the rolling,
crashing boulders. That was the way of the
Rangitata—whom the water spared the boulders
slew.
Suddenly something struck her feet, and she
screamed. It was a boulder. And through the
roar of the Rangitata she heard a shout, and
through the swirl of blue water and white foam
she caught a glimpse of a man and a horse
struggling beside her. Then the water poured
down her throat and choked her.
When she opened her eyes she was lying on a
coat spread on the shingle, and a rather handsome
young man was chafing her hands and working
her arms. She made a desperate effort to breathe,
and collapsed.
* * * *
A large room with blue and gold curtains drawn
across the windows, a gleam of statuettes, the
glow of a shaded lamp, and the refulgence of pine
logs in a red fireplace. A fair girl in cap and
black dress, and behind her a tall, dark lady with
curiously red lips, feverishly-bright black eyes,
and beautiful features of olive complexion. Flora
found herself in a warm bed, hot-water bags at
her feet and packed around her. The maid raised
her head and poured into her mouth some-
thing warm and spirituous, which she swallowed
with the same difficulty with which her father
made jokes. And then, with a sense of infinite
rest, she fell back among warm pillows and went
to sleep.
When she awoke next morning she discovered
she was in Tarahaoa Station, and the dark, hand-
some woman was the dreadful Mrs. Collier, the
being whom the dour Margaret of Doon always
described as the “Scarlet Woman.’" A thrill of
intense excitement swept over her. So this
was the place she had longed so much to see !
She inquired anxiously for her mother.
“Who is your mother, my dear, and where
did you see her last ? ” asked Mrs. Collier, think-
ing Flora was a sole survivor. After explana


tions, Mrs. Collier guessed that Mrs. Macdonald
was the other side of the Rangitata, and likely to
stay there for a fortnight. The river was now,
she explained, about two miles wide. As for the
man—well, Mrs. Collier believed that all brave
men who died through saving others went direct
to Heaven.
Mrs. Collier kept Flora in bed for two days,
but that afternoon she brought the Hon. Higgle-
stone, who had rescued her, to see her, and the
cold, ascetic Mr. Collier to read to her. In the
evening the room was full of ladies and gentlemen,
and they all did their best to entertain the girl
who, propped up among pillows, looked unusually
pretty in one of Mrs. Collier’s crushed strawberry
bed jackets.
Eight miles away, on the northern bank of the
Rangitata, bands of exhausted men still searched
the banks of the flooded river for the body of the
girl who was holding court in the palatial bed of
the mistress of Tarahaoa Station. And every time
they declared further search useless, a grim, tall
Scotch lady drove them back with looks that were
more terrible than her awful virtue. Rangihape,
The Wilderness, and Fernleigh stations had
turned out all hands. But it was not till they
had been searching for three nights.and two days
that it occurred to Mrs. Collier to send Higgle-
stone, who was an army man, to flash signals that
the lady was safe. And even then his orders
were to omit all mention of where she was. He
was, in fact, to wait for no reply. Mrs. Collier
began to regard the situation as amusing in a way.
So night after night Flora Macdonald danced
and behaved riotously in the big ball-room at
Tarahaoa. She was among the fleshpots of
Egypt, and liked the savor. For the first time in
her life she tasted champagne, and found it agree-
able. She had seen Mrs. Collier kissed by three
different men ; she had seen the bewilderingly
beautiful Helen Leigh sitting on a gentleman’s
knee smoking a cigarette. And neither of these
sights had shocked her. She had herself
been kissed by four men and hugged by one,
and found it produced sensations not altogether
unpleasant. But, most strange of all, in spite of
the laxity, she had found it hard to escape from
the sight of Mrs. Collier, who watched her more
closely than her own mother could. The Flon.
Higglestone, who seemed to regard her as his
own special property, had offered to take her for
a stroll through the orchard to show' her the
famous holly hedge, 26ft. high ; and just as they
started Mrs. Collier had appeared, and bluntly
told the Hon. he was not to take Miss Macdonald
walking without a chaperone. And the Hon. had
winced, although he laughingly complied.
This was life ! She wondered how on earth
she had ever endured the montony of Doon ; and
the thought of going back there was terrible. She
drove it out of her mind, like the thought of
death.
* • » «
After raging for 16 days the great river fell as
suddenly as it had risen. All in a night it sank
to a little above the normal height of late spring,
and squads of men set to w'ork to rebuild the
weird old suspension bridge. The first vehicle
that crossed it w'as that of Mrs. Macdonald, who
drove straight on to Doon to recover her daughter
and hear the details of her marvellous escape.
She was stricken dumb to find her household
had heard never a word of the affair. She was
also further paralysed and deprived of the power
of reasoning by hearing that the Macdonald had
gone on a burst, and was painting Esmeralda
township a lurid purple. Tired, anxious, and
frightfully angry, she ate a dreary lunch, and
ordered fresh horses. The weary Donald went
to sleep till the horses should be harnessed up.
Then he arose, shook himself, and started out
with his mistress on a 25-mile drive to South
Rangitata station, where she arrived as night was
blown suddenly down over the land by a nasty
sou’-westerly. They had heard nothing of her
daughter, or of the accident, at South Rangitata ;
but assured her the girl must be all right. Had
she succumbed, the news would have got abroad.
Would she not stay the night, and try Peel
Forest or Tarahaoa in the morning ?
“ Tarahaoa ! ” the grim old lady almost
shrieked. “My daughter would not stay in that
hoose !”
“ God bless me soul, m’m, it’s the best place
in Canterbury to stay ! ” exclaimed old Osbaldi-
stone, smacking his thick lips in delightful
memory, for which his wife reproved him harshly.
But Margaret o’ Doon would not stay. She went
back to her carriage, and the wretched Donald
headed for Esmeralda station. It was the nearest.
They arrived there wet to the skin, caught in a
torrential rain storm. The Esmeralda people
listened open-mouthed to the story, and immedi-
ately opined that Flora would be at Old Gerald-
ine. That station’s territory projected a corner
right down to the terrace above the Rangitata,
and it was possible some of their people were
down there the day the river rose. So the old
lady tottered towards the door, intending to make
for Old Geraldine. But they would not hear of
it. Her horses were knocked up, her carriage
was a sodden wreck, and her driver was at the
last gasp. Yet the old lady was obdurate, and it
was not till Donald went on strike that they
managed to detain her almost by force.
Next morning, when her carriage had dried
somewhat, the dame went on to Old Geraldine,
and thence right past the gates of Tarahaoa
on to Waikonini. In the Kowhai Creek she
caught a glimpse of a picnic party, and had she
investigated she would have found the missing
Flora prancing round in a borrowed bathing cos-
tume with about the most rackety crowd in Old
Canterbury. As the bathing pool was rather
chilly, they filled in a delightful morning running
races in the sunlight. For a straight-haired girl,
Flora o’ the Doon was going the pace mar-
vellously. More than ever she wondered how
she would endure the dreary life at The Doon,
where the only love affairs were in books trans-
lated from the German.
At Waikonini the old lady found only domestics
—the family was at a bathing picnic with the
Tarahaoa people in the Kowhai Creek. There
was a lot of company at Tarahaoa, and perhaps
Miss Macdonald was among the guests. There
was to be a great dance there that night.
“ Impossible 1 ” said Mrs. Macdonald. “My
daughter would not stay in that hoose.” Then
the discreet housekeeper closed right up. She
knew that Miss Flora was at Tarahaoa, but “ least
said, soonest mended.”
Having refreshed herself with a light collation,
Mrs. Macdonald started for Peel Forest, where
the manager’s wife gave her lunch and apologised
for having no ale. She had heard nothing of
Flora either, but was certain that Miss Macdonald
would not be at Mount Peel. If the girl had
been rescued from the river she would be at some
of the stations nearer the estuary, and suggested
Ocean Caves or Deepstream. But Mrs. Mac-
donald told her the signals had been flashed
across the river just where it skirted Peel Forest,
and therefore she presumed that the young lady
had been taken to Mount Peel and was too ill to
explain who she was, otherwise word would have
been sent to The Boon. Then she started for
Mount Peel.
Ihe river had just receded from the road, and
left oyer the old track a fresh, wave-like deposit
of shingle, which made travelling slow and un-
comfortable. As Margaret was shaken from one
side to the other, she realised why it was Mount
Peel had not sent word of Flora’s condition.
That dreadful road would justify anything. It
was evening when the Gothic roofs of the home-
stead came into view, and it was a thoroughly ex-
hausted old Scotswoman who tottered up the
steps into the hall, where the lady of the house
received her with open arms, and sent word to
the carriage to drive round to the stables.
A good dinner and a rest revived the grim old
Puritan considerably. She was quite nonplussed
at not finding Flora, and began to fear the mes-
sage of the flash signals had been misread. Flora,
she declared, must be in the Rangitata after all.
And then the kindly folk of Mount Peel broke
down and confessed to having heard that Flora
had been taken to Tarahaoa, and was there still.
Margaret of Doon rocked herself in her agony,
crying out that she had sooner heard of her dead
ANOTHER GEORGE WASHINGTON.
WIFE : “ William Henry Blobbs, are you drunk again?”
WILLIAM Henry : “ M’ deash , I cannot tel' yer a lie—I am.”
body being found. Better the depths of the.
Rangitata than the moral grave of Tarahaoa.
The voice of Mount Peel and its wife assured
her that, although somewhat talked about, Mrs.
Collier was a lady of refinement ; and Mr.
Collier, who was as fine a gentleman as ever
lived and a member of the U pper House, was at
home. Mount Peel was confident that no harm
would come to Flora while Mr. Collier was at
home.
The old lady asked for her wraps. Mount
Peel was horrified. It was impossible. At least
she must stay the night; and, if necessary, they
would send their own waggonette right away to
bring Flora there. But Margaret of Doon shook
her head.
“ If she has stayed so long she wouldna come !”
“Well, one more night there will not make
any difference,” said the lady, with a suspicion of
worldliness. “At least we must keep you here
for the night.”
‘ ‘ How can I stay here and leave my daughter
in such a hoose ? ” Margaret exclaimed passion-
ately. “A’wad sooner hear she was sheltered
in a byre, or the Bridge Hotel. Yon hoose is
infamous ! ”
“ I repeat, Mrs. Macdonald, Mrs. Collier is a
refined woman ! ”
“ Refined fiddlesticks ! ” snapped the old
Puritan. “Ring for ma beasties.”
» * * *
At first the wretched Donald refused point
blank to start. But his mistress sent word that,
if he did not arrive within five minutes, she would
fetch him herself. Then the burly Highlander
heaved himself up, and took his place in the
carriage.
“ ’Tis foolish. The lass is in nae danger, and
the Laird will be fair daft vhen he hears o’ the
way the beasties hae been dfiven.” And then, as
an afterthought, “ Tae say naething of th' way ye
have been knocked aboot yersel’. ”
The fair Margaret laughed harshly. The refer-
ence to the Laird amused her.
Bump, bump over the shingle went the wag-
gonette. Every half mile Donald gave his strain-
ing horses a rest, and resumed his grumbling.
Margaret wrapped herself up in her sealskin cloak
and took absolutely no notice. The hours dragged
by, and at last, after what seemed an awful
journey, the waggonette drove through the last
gate and emerged from the shingle drifts on to
the hard road that ran through Peel Forest.
Donald gave his horses a last rest, and then made
pace through the forest.
Out once more on the plains he saw that
Waikonini was in darkness, but far away through
the starshine Tarahaoa windows shone brightly
through a veil of trees.
As Margaret drove up the carriage drive the
music of piano and violins smote her ears.
Dancing was in full blast, and the sounds of
revelry drowned those of her wheels. Donald
pulled up under a big rowan tree. Very stiffly
the old lady alighted and strode across the grass
towards the big front door. In the half the
servants were drawing corks and piling refresh-
ments on to plates. She walked through. No
one took any notice of her for a moment, and
then a maid hurried forward. Margaret waved
her aside. The girl caught one glimpse of her
face and drew back.
“Which way to the dancing room?” she
demanded.
The awed girl pointed through the white-and-
gold morning room. The apparition, gaunt and
wasted of (ace, haggard-eyed, wrapped in a seal-
skin cloak that had cost a hundred pounds,
stalked through the gorgeous morning room, and
shuddered at the engraving of Power’s Greek
Slave that looked down on her with anguished
eves from the side wall. Half way across the
room she stopped and stared round. And every-
where “nakked vvimmen ” looked out from oaken
frames or shimmered whitely in silver and
alabaster. She drank in every detail of “the
den,’ and then resumed her progress to where
white velvet curtains hung over the door that led
to the ball-room. The curtains deceived her, and
she stepped through an open window into the
huge conservatory, where a tall girl in a
decollete costume sat on a young man’s knee
smoking a cigarette. They took no notice ot her,
and Margaret recoiled from the spectacle.
Then she pulled back the heavy curtain and looked
into the ball-room. Her knees shook, her tongue
clove to the roof of her mouth, for there, in the
midst of a dreamy waltz, which Margaret of Doon
regarded as the apex of immorality, was Flora,
held fast in the arms of a great tall man, her blue
eyes looking over his shoulder with an expression
of languorousness that froze her mother’s marrow.
The music rose and fell, and the swaying couples
went reeling past.
As the Hon. Higglestone swung past the door
a long grim Scotch by terian arm in a sealskin
sleeve reached out and gripped his partner by the
rose-starred hair. There was a sudden com-
motion, and the Hon. Higglestone staggered back
against the wall, the blood oozing from his long
aristocratic nose, where a bony Puritan female
fist had smitten it. Flora disentangled herself,
looked up, and, with a shriek, recognised her
mother.
* * * •
As she dragged her daughter through the white-
and-gold morning room, Margaret found herself
confronted by a tall, handsome brunette.
‘ ‘ Pardon me, but you must release that young
lady immediately. She is in my care, and if you
do not let her go at once ” (and she stamped her
foot) “ I will have you thrown out of my house.
Who are you, you dreadful apparition ? ”
And in spite of her fury, the dour old mother
looked at Mrs. Collier with intense interest. Her
feminine curiosity was aroused—also her fear.
She knew what Mrs. Collier was capable of, and
realised suddenly that if the “ Scarlet Woman ”
resorted to force the argument was over. She
kept a tight grip of Flora’s arm.
“You will pardon me, and my unceremonious
entry to your hoose. But this is my daughter.
I'm takiif her home. I’ve been searching these
twa days for her. Flora, come away, come away! ”
But with a sudden wrench Flora escaped, and
took refuge behind the blazing brunette.
“ You seem to have a very vague idea of what
is due to me or your daughter. She is brought
in a half-drowned state from the river by a
member of my household. I nurse her back to
life, I send you word she is safe and well, and
keep her and treat her with the respect due to her
station. And you break into my house, strike my
guests, and proceed to drag her away by force,
without explanation or apology.”
“ For saving her body, 1 thank you. For soil-
ing her soul, the Lord will requite you at Judg-
ment Day. I had sooner she had died than
entered your hoose. ”
“ I don’t know anything about her soul. But
she has been under my eye all the time she has
been in this house, and she leaves it as pure as she
entered it. I know what is due to Miss Mac-
donald and myself. You seem to have very hazy
ideas on the subject, however.”
“Very fine, very fine; ‘pure as she entered
it ’ ! An’ ye let her twirl roond tha room wi’ her
body pres-sed against a man’s ! Woman, A’m
astonished at ye ! Flora, come away, come away.”
The long arm reached out towards Flora, and
the sealskin figure advanced.
“ Go to my room, my dear,” said Mrs. Collier,
turning her head to Flora, who immediately van-
ished between the velvet curtains.
When Margaret Macdonald attempted to rush
in pursuit Mrs. Collier stepped in front of her.
“ Stand back, ere I do you an injury,”
screamed the angry mother.
“You are an old woman—old enough to he
my mother —therefore allowances must be made for
you. But if you attempt to follow Flora I shall
use force.”
And her beautiful arm glided out to the bell-
rope. A maid appeared.
“ Tilly, Mrs. Macdonald of The Doon will
occupy the blue-and-gold room upstairs. Light
the fire and lay some supper for her. Tell
Jenkins to take her carriage to the stables, and
see that her driver is given a good meal and com-
fortable quarters. I will show Mrs. Macdonald
up myself. Be quick!”
“Yes, m’am.”
“111 no stay in this den o’ infamy. If Flora
winna come with me, I’ll gang by meself.”
“ You misunderstand,” said the lady of Tara-
haoa coldly. “ You stay here to-night—whether
as a guest or a prisoner you will please yourself.
At present your daughter is wearing my clothes
and jewellery. She has been dancing all night,
and is tired. If she chooses to go with you in the
morning, I have no power to detain her. But
to-night you are just plain mad, and I shall treat
you accordingly. Will you please come to your
room now ? ”
“ I will not.”
Then she rushed to the window and shrieked
for Donald.
“ Donald, lam afraid, is now at supper. Will
you please decide whether you will walk upstairs
or be carried ? ”
The old woman looked round her with a de-
spairing glance. The naked women leered at her
from oaken frames and corner brackets. In the
ball-room the music rose and fell. From the hall
beyond came the popping of corks. And in the
midst of the snowy gorgeousness she saw the tall
brunette, her black hair shimmering in the light,
the rubies on her brown neck shining against the
vivid red of her lips, her black, deep eyes glowing
with a feverish light. There was something
almost supernatural about her beauty and her
imperious will. Margaret of Doon, who had
ruled her husband and everyone she came in con-
tact with for 40 years, was cowed.
“I am ready,” she said, frightenedly.
Mrs. Collier drew' back the curtains through
which Flora had vanished, and with bent head
the dour old woman passed through.
* * * *
In the blue-and-gold room a fire was blazing
merrily. A table gleamed w-ith porcelain and silver.
Mrs. Collier assisted her to take off her cloak.
“ Sit here,” said Mrs. Collier, tapping a chair
near the fire. And when the cowed woman did
so, the brunette sat at the other side of the table
and poured out the tea.
“I am sorry I can offer you nothing but a
grilled chop. You see, I did not expect you,”
she said, sweetly.
The sight of the tea and the odor of the chop
were too much for Margaret. She fell to and
made a hearty meal ; and when she had finished,
Mrs. Collier again rang the bell. A girl tripped
in and removed the tray. Hardly had the door
closed when Mrs. Collier rose.
“ Ring for anything you require. I wonder if
that girl put a nightie in the satchel ! ” she ex-
claimed suddenly, stepping to the bedside. “ Ah,
yes, here it is. It will be more comfortabie
warmed .' ”
And very quietly she spread it over the back of
a chair, stood up, bowed, and w'as gone.
***-*■
Mrs. Macdonald was wide awake when Flora
brought her a cup of tea in the morning and laid
it timidly on a table at the bedside. The old
woman's bony claw shot out and rested on her
daughter's arm.
“ P'lora, my dear, I understand now. I know
you couldna’ help it. Yon being is no human.”
“ Oh, mother ! ”
“Na, na,” said the aged parent, shaking her
head as she sipped her tea. ‘ ‘ The eyes o’ her,
the hair o’ her, the lips—Guid help us ! I was
like a child in her haund. She mastered me wi’
a look. Na, she’s nae human woman.”
“Then what is she, mother ? ”
The old woman looked round the room with
a scared peering expression, and lifting the cup
again to her lips whispered :
“ Satan ! ”
C. A. JEFFRIES.


Reprinted from August Lone Hand,
U.S.S. KEARSARGE.
Copyright 1907, by Enrique Muller.
UNCLE SAM’S STEEL WALLS.
THE AMERICAN FLEET en route (A REAR VIEW).
Copyright, Pictorial News Co., New York.
U.S. FLAGSHIP CONNECTICUT.
Copyright 1907, by Enrique Muller.
AT ANCHOR OFF HAMPTON ROADS, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
Copyright 1907, by Enrique Muller.


Dominoes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL day within a back room those
Two silent men play dominoes.
The long day dies, the sunset glows,
The shadows round the players close ;
All day two men play dominoes.
One of the men in terror goes,
Yet of his anguish nothing shows ;
Each hates the other, and each knows —
All day two men play dominoes.
All day until the twilight goes
They play in silence, grim, morose ;
All day between these bitter foes
The tension through the silence grows ;
All day two men play dominoes.
Upstairs another terror grows ;
Upstairs a woman sits and sews ;
Beneath, the game draws to its close—
The fateful game the weak man chose ;
Foi with the game a woman goes—
All day two men play dominoes.
N. S. W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Prank That Didn’t.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HENRY INMAN had already drunk more
beer than was good for him when he
drifted into the Dago’s little, dark, dirty
smoke-house of a wine shop in the Black Slum, a
blind alley backing a jumble of warehouses and
Sin Fat’s odoriferous banana market. But if
Henry took a drop too much, he had always the
melancholy satisfaction of knowing that he was
driven to it. People, Fate, circumstances "and
events combined with malicious diligence to
drive Henry to drink. To begin with, he was at
the pitiful necessity of having to earn his own
living—by the sweat of his brow when the weather
was sultry—and this, to a young man of his
temperament, was sufficient justification for a
little indulgence. Then there were the sisters
and mother at home, who nagged at him to mend
his manners and customs and to contribute more
liberally towards the household expenses; and
they introduced Brother Dripstone Meekin, from
No. 3 Blue Tent of the Fighting Rechabites, to
point out the error of his ways from two to four on
Sundays, and endeavor to win him to temperance.
Henry was often surprised at his own moderation
when he considered the number and persistence
of the forces impelling him.
Reekie’s wine shop was no place for a man
already stricken in drink. The Dago’s wines
possessed some of the qualities of corrosive
sublimate, and, acting alone, rapidly undermined
the intellect and the higher instincts of man ; but
operating in conjunction with beer or any other
foreign substance, they set up almost immediate
acute inflammation of the faculties.
“ Good-a ni’, Meester,” said the bulky licensee,
lounging in the doorway, his long, white grin
flashing like a bared knife through the black
stubble. “ Queek, queek ! you miss-a th’ fun.
Insi’ th’ boys they make-a th’ ’ell-play. The
great-a time eet is. Ah, gran’ ! ” Up went
Reekie’s hands in affected ecstasy.
“Righto, Metto !” cried Henry, clapping the
Dago’s fat back with a fine show of appreciation.
It was part of the convention to affect an airy
familiarity with this blowsy ruffian, and to be
intimate with the frequenters of his den. You
could not expect to be rated as a young devil, a
no-doubt bad lad and a real sport if you were not
bosom brothers with Fiani and quite at home in
his grimy parlor bar, with the tinted barmaids, the
old grey cat, and the buckled piano.
The wine-seller had a tremendous name that
steeplechased across the front of his shop and
half-way round the building, but the customers
had broken it into seven pieces, and they used the
fragments indiscriminately. ' He was supposed to
have been a brigand in his own country, but had
been dismissed for unbecoming conduct, and,
migrating to Australia, had gone from bad to
abominable. He bustled Inman towards the
parlor.
“ Th’ boy-a they cry out —they speak-a for
'Enry. They want-a ’Enry, they say-a, th’
fine fella, th’ splendid-a fella, ’Enry. Queek,
queek ! ” Reekie resented any delay in getting
down to business.
Inman was greeted with a shout of boozy en-
thusiasm when he entered the back parlor. Three
acquaintances of his held two strangers to the
wine bar ; a red-headed youth was carving his
initials on the grand piano ; the brunette bar-
maid, a pale Australian with Chinese symptoms,
was arranging her bunch of black mule’s wool at
the dingy mirror behind the shelves ; the lemon-
yellow blonde devoted her time and talents to the
younger of the two strangers. Everybody smoked
cigarettes. The small counter pinched the girls
into a corner, with a few wine bottles fraudulently
labelled “ Claret,” “ Burgundy,” “ Port,” etc.
“ 'Elio, 'ello, Willie,” cried the brunette.
“ What ink are you drinkin ? ”
“ Make it red,” answered Inman. There
was no pretence of expecting virgin purity in
Reekie’s liquors.
The taller of the two strangers insisted on pay-
ing for Henry’s drink. “ Any fren’o’yours sa
fren’ o’ mine,” he explained to the company,
whereupon Inman and the newcomers were for-
mally introduced, the latter as Jim and Bill.
There was an uncertainty as to the correctness of
these names; in fact, nobody could guarantee
which was Jim and which Bill, least of all Bill and
Jim ; but no man present was in a condition to
worry over trifles.
WHICH HAND?
A motion was submitted to the citizens’ sports and
entertainments committee that the idea of decoratine: the
city for the U.S.A. fleet should be abandoned. It was
suggested that the money already subscribed should be
devoted to the entertainment of the men.
" Flags or buns?"
Bill and Jim were American sailors, both very
young, clean-limbed, clear-skinned, fresh from the
green sea, and both open-hearted and fairly in-
genuous, despite the reputation for precocity in
wickedness that attaches' to sailormen all the
world over. Johno Hobbs and Raymond Cato,
alias “The Toucher/’ had met the sailors at a
riverside bar. Drinks and compliments were ex-
changed, and the four fraternised. Then the
Australians, with the best intentions in the world,
started out to show the Americans the hospitality
of the town. Cordial relations deepened with
successive refreshments. In an hour the four
agreed among themselves, with kindliest regard,
that Americans and Australians were first cousins
on both sides, and that America and Australia
united could dictate terms to creation.
“As fer Japan,” said Johno Hobbs, resuming
the conversation when Henry was comfortably dis-
posed, “ let ’em get gaudy ideas about ownin’ the
earth, and they’ll have We-Us t’ deal with.”
Hobbs ranged alongside the tall sailor.
“ Them’s the facts,” said the sailor, with
Bacchic gravity. “We call off the spread of
Japanese influence, and the Orient gets biffed.”
“’Ave another?” Cato was gloriously reck-
less.
They had another. Hobbs proposed “Hail
Columbia ” as a toast, and sat down to the piano
to sing “ The Star Spangled Banner.” Reekie's
piano was the only ancient ruin Australia could
boast of. When Hobbs sparred with it, it made
hideous noises like the jangling of tin-ware on a
drover’s horse, but Hobbs’s singing provoked im-
mense enthusiasm. “Advance Australia” w'as
demanded, and Reekie’s grey cat’s nine kittens
rallied round their mother on the lid, and added
their noisy protestations to hers. All hands joined
in the chorus. It was a moment of concord and
patriotic fervor.
“ Fill ’em up again,” said Henry Inman.
Henry was playing his part, but, truth to tell,
he was not happy. It had been his privilege to
monopolise the attentions of the lemon-yellow
barmaid on occasions like this, but to-night she
w'as absorbed in the blue-eyed sailor, who seemed
to have most right to the name of Jim, and
Henry’s pride was hurt. Jim’s years of dis-
cretion were yet far off; he had drunk much
more back-lane beer and Barcoo bur-
gundy than was good for him, and
he was seeing things in quaint per-
spective and through a .glamor
ofbeatitude. Belle Devoy, the
blonde, was considerably his
senior, and she “ made up ”
with the audacity of an
elderly circus rider, but
Jim thought her rarely
beautiful. She had
whispered to him the
sad story of her life,
and his manliness was
stirred. He was a
monument of chivalry.
Belle loved to tell the
sad story of her life,
with its sorrows, its
sicknesses and suffer-
ings, its heroic struggles
with adversity, and its
triumphs over the mac-
hinations of wicked men.
Jim believed. Just then
he was prepared to believe
anything creditable to the
fair. He was very respectful to
Miss Devoy, very gentle with
her, and Belle was deeply touched.
She drank wine with him, clinking
glasses like a perfect lady.
Inman soured. He felt that he was being
badly treated. He was out on the edge, he who
should lead the band. With the grand audacity
with which drink sometimes endowed him, Henry
began to blurt derision, but his gibes were lost in
the din and in the thick, smoky atmosphere of
international conviviality. The sailors called for
fresh bottles. Belle and Miss Peony Dodd, the
brunette, had to help to do honor to the great men
of two great countries. They toasted George
Washington and Captain Cook, President Roose-
velt and Alfred Deakin. Then Jim, striking as
dignified and perpendicular an attitude as circum-
stances would permit, gravely and gallantly pro-
posed the health of Miss Belle Devoy. “ Mos’
bu’ful garden in Beauty’s blossom,” said Jim, with
a burst of poesy. The figure was mixed, but who
cared ? —the sentiment was all right. They drank
the toast with jubilation.
This incident served to fix attention on Jim
and the barmaid. The emotions of the company
took a new trend.
“ Jimmy Gee ! They’re shook to their founda-
tions,” cried Inman. “ It’s a case of love et first
sight, and a complex attack at that.”
“ ’Merica ’n’ ’Stralia, hooray ! ” cried the red-
headed youth. He swung his glass in the air,
and fell in a sitting position in the corner behind
the piano, and was not heard from again for some
time.
Raymond Cato solemnly clapped the sailor on
the back.
“ Congrasherlations, old fl’r,” he said, affec-
tionately. “ She’s goo’ girl ! ”
“ Girl any man ud be proud of,” added Johno
Hobbs.
“ Oh, go on ; let go ! ” giggled Belle. “ I’m
sure me and Mr. Jim is on’y friends.”
Jim took her hand and held it. “ Mos’ bu’ful
garden in Beauty’s blossom,” he repeated, vaguely.
Belle’s heart was stirred, or, possibly, Reekie's
red Burgundy had obscured her natural sense of
propriety. She sat on the counter, and wound
an arm about Jim’s neck. The others stood off,
and surveyed the touching tableau with owl-like
earnestness. Hobbs began a speech in which he
gave expression to his opinion that a match be-
tween Miss Belle Devoy, of Melbourne, Australia,
and our friend and ally, Jim, of United States,
America, would be a source of gratification on
two continents, and would serve to bind together
still more closely the people of the great English-
speaking countries. It was a very fine speech,
and provoked yells of approval and another toast.
At this stage Henry Inman conceived the idea
of his magnificent joke. Why not marry Belle
and Jim as a climax for the big spree? It was
not a new joke. Among the many curious things
that may happen to a man in Australia is the
quaint experience of awakening after a night of
wassail, and finding himself well and truly married
to a total stranger. Melbourne ‘ ‘ marriage shops ”
for the convenience of casuals are open at almost
all hours, and in them an impulsive couple can be
married by a duly-qualified clergyman (of a kind),
equipped with a ring, and supplied with witnesses
for a trifling cost. No particular questions are
asked, and no squeamish exception is taken to the
mental condition of the contracting parties. You
simply pay your money and take your choice, and
if the chosen one has not the approval of your
sober moments, that is your worry ; the marriage
agent doesn’t take it to heart. Henry knew of
one man who had recovered from a jamboree to a
knowledge of the fact that he was possessed of a
legally-wedded wife whose face he did not
recollect, and whose maiden name he did not
know.
All the elements for the magnificent, merry,
and mischievous prank were at hand. Inman
began to work them up. He was drunk, but not
quite so thoroughly obfuscated as the others, and
he had sense enough to keep the general attention
fixed on the idea of a love-match between Jim
and the lemon-yellow barmaid. So the idea
grew until it was quite understood by the com-
pany that Jim’s marriage with Belle was fore-
ordained. Bill, who at first seemed to possess a
puzzled impression that there was some-show of
unnecessary haste, eventually became a clamorous
advocate of short engagements and early marriages.
He insisted on being best man. This point was
not reached without a further liberal consumption
of Reekie’s red Burgundy, however, and mean-
while Henry was losing command of his gorgeous
idea. It had a misty effect now, but he had
brilliant intervals, when he saw his purpose clearly
enough.
When closing time came even Belle and Peony
had abandoned their earlier impression that it was
all a joke. An inquisitive policeman brought
festivities to a hasty close, and precipitated the
nuptials. Presently the members of the party
found themselves in the street, animated
with a fugitive impression that a sacred
IN CASE.
COUNTRY SERGEANT-MAJOR (to cadet): “ What
is the right way to address an American
Admiral? ”
CADET: “ Yer Warship!”
duty lay before them. They pursued it
with the sobriety and decorum the occasion
demanded. They were seeking Swinnerton’s
Matrimonial Bureau. Raymond Cato led the
way. Bill followed importantly, with the lady
on his arm. Inman and the bridesmaid, Miss
Peony Dodd, came next. The bridegroom and
Johno Hobbs were in the rear.
A feeble light burned in Swinnerton's windows,
but the proprietor of the Matrimonial Bureau and
his tame parson were lurking for possible victims,
and the party had a cordial reception. Raymond
Cato explained the situation, and tendered the
fees, the sum of which had been contributed by
all concerned, for Henry had taken round the hat
at Reekie’s. Meanwhile the prospective bride-
groom and Johno were having a contest of cour-
tesy at the street door.
“’Merica first,” said Johno, politely making
way for his companion.
“Not a’ tall,” replied Jim, with equal cordi-
ality.
“You firs’, Jim—bri’groom firs’,” insisted
Johno.
Jim solved the problem. “ We’ll gc togerrer,”
he said. They linked arms and made another
stagger, stuck in the narrow doorway, rebounded,
and sat down on the mat, where, after a minute’s
intense silence, Jim asked with some anxiety:
“ Say, Ned, wheresh thish ole paraffin drag
whirlin’ us, anyway?”
Johno did not know. He thought they were
going to a wedding, or perhaps it was a funeral.
On second thoughts he was sure it was a funeral.
In endeavoring to preserve the solemnity proper
to their character as chief mourners both feel
asleep.
Inside, while the proprietor was arranging pre
liminaries, a vague uneasiness was manifesting
itself among the wedding party. It knew it was
a wedding party, but it was hazy about details.
“ Where’sh bridegroom, boys ?•” asked Cato.
“ Dem ’fiknow,” responded Bill.
Even Inman was bewildered. “ There orter
be bri’groom,” he said, positively.
There was general agreement that no wedding
was complete without a bridegroom. Cato ap-
pealed to Miss Devoy, but the bride-elect no
longer held a lucid grasp of actualities. She re-
sponded sleepily that any old thing would do.
“ Someone’s gorrer be bri’groom,” said the
red-headed person to Cato. “ I’ll tosh yerfor it.”
This solution was acceptable to Cato, and he
was about to act on it, when, in a sun-burst of
perspicacity, he recollected that he was already a
married man with a family.
Mr. Swinnerton and his ordained clergyman
were weary and little disposed to waste time over
trifles. The ceremony proceeded. Somebody
was married according to law and the rites of
the Free or Partially-Chained-Up Presbyterian
Church of Gippsland, and the wedding party was
driven forth. It gathered Jim and Hobbs off the
mat by the way, and trooped into the street,
where presently it was disbanded by a zealous
constable. Plenry, Johno, and the red-headed
youth, impressed with the idea that the laws of
hospitality required them to see their guests
safely home, spent an hour wandering with the
sailors through the streets of an inland suburb,
waking the occupants of one demure villa after
another to inquire if that was the American ship
Acme. Once they narrowly escaped arrest for
wanting to fight a stout councillor in pyjamas.
They suspected him of spiriting away the good
ship Acme for his own evil purposes.
Henry Inman was feeling very poorly when he
awoke next morning. His appearance gave his
mother and sisters much concern, and he was
profoundly sorry for himself. It was a shocking
thing that a man in his low state should have to
turn out and work for his bread. But Henry
recollected things as he trained into the city, and
eventually his morning was brightened with a full
comprehension of his glittering joke. It was the
joke of the century —immense, magnificent—it
would become historical. At the warehouse he
told the clerks how he had lured a motherless
sailor-man into marrying one of Reekie’s she-
rapscallions. “The one with a head like a
scrambled egg,” Henry explained. He gave a
graphic description of the wild night, taking full
credit for all its humors. Some of the clerks did
not think Inman’s joke a joke at all; they said it
was a dog’s trick, but they were persons wanting
in a true sense of the ludicrous.
Knowledge of the joke travelled all through a
city block. The affair was being discussed during
lunch hour when Johno, looking very limp and
woebegone, called in on Henry Inman. He
beckoned Henry aside.
“That was an awful business last night,” he
said. “ What’re you goin’ to do about it ? ”
“Do!” ejaculated Henry. “Why, nothing.
It’s a star joke. It’s all over the shop.”
“Joke! Why, the infernal marriage is
valid ! ”
“To be sure it is. Have you seen the American
sailor ? Is he buckin’ at all ? ”
A strange light shone in Johno’s eye.
“’Enery,” he said, “you're switched to a sad
delusion. The Devoy wasn’t married to any
sailor —she was married to Cato.”
Henry Inman was dumb for fully half a minute.
He glared at Hobbs, his eyes astare, his mouth
ajar, petrified with astonishment and some terror.
“You’re—you’re monkeyin’,” he murmured.
“It’s the immortal I’m tellin’ you,” retorted
Johno. “Cato was the bridegroom and he was
married already. It’s bigamy, and you’re an
accessory before and after the act. It’ll get you
two years hard. I’ve seen Cato. He's sure he s
the man, and he’s out for you with a gun.”
Henry was trembling in every limb ; he put a
hand on Johno’s shoulder. “ Not a word,” he
said piteously.
Inman pleaded sickness that afternoon, and
rushed home. A greater horror awaited him.
There were five persons in the dining-room
Henry’s mother, his two sisters, Brother Dripstone
Meekin, and, standing at the head of the table,
Belle Devoy looking ghastly through the dye and
the powder, and in all the fluff and shabbiness of
“ the day after.” As Henry entered Belle slapped
a document dowm before the company, and stepped
back with an air of triumph.
Henry snatched the lines from the Rev. Meekin,
and as he read them an agony of grief prostrated
him. He collapsed on the couch.
Here Belle swooped upon him. She asserted
ownership in a fond embrace.
“Mehusbind!” she murmured.
Henry Inman answered with a hollow moan.
Johno Hobbs’s version was a mere trifle to the
actual disaster. The name of the bridegroom on
Belle’s legal document was Henry Inman.
Not the sailorman, and not Cato, but Henry
himself was securely married to Belle Devoy of
the Black Slum !
EDWARD DYSON.


i
OJ
•A
v
I
9
m
m
l
IB ordA n_
Young' Australia introduces the Commonwealth’s
Mammoth Store to Uncle Sam.
The New Palace Emporium, on the Historic Slope of Brickfield Hill, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Home of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.


SELLING LIKE RIPE CHERRIES!
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
■* PRINTED, ILLUSTRATED, and WRITTEN
IN AUSTRALIA.
THESE BOOKS REQUIRE NO PUFFING
—THEY ARE TRUE TO THE SOIL.
THE BOOK OF THE YEAR.
THE POOR
PARSON
THE POOR
PARSON*
By Steele Rudd.
Author of “ S andy' s
Selection,'' “On Our
Selection," etc .
Illustrated by leading
A rtists.
PRICE: 3s. 6d.; post
free, sd. extra.
This bulletin. —"Australia —especially the
of the Backblocks—likes this sort of book ; it is
sort of book that the Backblocks would write
had the ability and energy.”
Australia
3 just the
itself if it
I -Sanoy3
U t~*T4
SANDY'S
SELECTION.
By Steele Rudd.
Author of “ On Our
Selectionand “ Our
New Selection
With 40 illustrations
by the leading Black
and White Artists of
Australia.
Demy Bvo, cloth
3s. 6d. (postage 5d.).
£6OO was paid for the rights of this book, and the sales
have proved that the expenditure was justified.
“ ‘ Sandy’s Selection’ will be read with interest by the
many admirers of this promising author.”— The Sydney
Morning Herald.
“ The reader will laugh almost to exhaustion over the
absurdities presented, but he will understand that there
is something beneath the fooling.”— Melbourne Leader.
-/
ON THE FRINGE
of the
NEVER NEVER*
By H. K. Bloxham.
With Frontispiece.
Crown Bvo, Cloth
2s. 6d. (postage, 4d.)
A plain unvarnished tale
of the Backblocks durinsr
the early ’forties. A tale
whose characters live and
move in such a way as to
bring conviction to the reader. And the secret of it all
is that the principals in the story did actually enact the
parts allotted to them, for most of them are well known
to many an old resident.
Sydnhy Morning Herald: “A vivid story of stirring
times, well told.”
Daily Telegraph : “ A capital book for those who care
about the romunce of the old pioneering days.”
THU
StU&ITOIV
THE SELECTOR,
By James Green.
With 12 full-page illus-
trations by A. J.
Fischer.
Fall Cloth, 2s. 6d.
(postage 5d.)
This story is an effort to
portray the life of the
settlers in the North and
North-western wheat dis-
tricts. It abounds in in-
cident —humorous, pathe-
tic, and tragic—arid it has
the added merit of being- true. To those who are con-
templating- going on the land, we should say: “Read
‘ The Selector.’ It will be money well spent.”
In “ The Selector ” the author has written a book which
is genuinely true in regard to conditions in the Back-
blocks. .. . “Dummying ” also comes in for harsh treat-
ment, and so does the way in which holders of land they
did not particularly want were able to arrange matters
with persons who desired that land.— The Sydney Morning
Herald.
Steele Rudd’s DAD IN POLITICS-Illus-
trated ... Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
Steele Rudd’s FOR LIFE —Illustrated —
Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
M
Spencer's HOW
McDOUGALL
TOPPED THE
SCORE —Illustrated.
Price Is., post free
Is. 3d.
Spencer's SPRING
CLEANING—
Illustrated.
Price Is., post free
Is. 3d.
Spencer's SURPRISING ADVENTURES
OF MRS. BRIDGET McSWEENEY —
Illustrated ... Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
Barry’s LUCK OF THE NATIVE BORN
—lllustrated... Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
Barry's STEVE BROWN'S BUNYIP—
Illustrated ... Price Is. 6d., post free 2s.
De Boos's SETTLER & SAVAGE-Illus-
trated ... Price 3s. 6d., post free 3s. lid.
Dyson's THE ROARING 'FlFTlES—lllus-
trated ... Price 25., post free 2s. sd.
Dyson's EDWARD THE MISSING LINK
—lllustrated ...Price Is,, post free Is. 3d.
Pratt's THREE YEARS WITH THUN-
DERBOLT—lllustrated
Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
Websdale's SEAFARERS—lllustrated
Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
Porter's RlVERFALL—lllustrated
Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
BULLETIN REClTER—lllustrated
Price Is., post free Is. 3d.
N.S.W- BOOKSTALL CO.
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
All Branches and booksellers throughput Australasia.
The Skeleton and the Shade.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Skeleton lay in the wastes afar,
And grinned as he always grinned.
The Shade came down from a wandering
star
Astride of the midnight wind.
“ Oh ! what have you done with my eyes, my
eyes ? ”
The Shade to the Skeleton said.
“Oh ! the crows took them —l recall your cries—
Ere ever you left me dead.”
“ Oh ! what has become of my heart, my heart?”
To the Skeleton said the Shade.
The Skeleton grinned : “It became a part
Of the feast that the dingoes made.”
“ And where is the blood of my veins, my veins?”
The Shade to the Skeleton said.
“ Drunk up by the sun and the sands —the stains
Are still to be seen, dark red.”
“ Oh ! where is the flesh of my limbs, my limbs?”
Said the Shade, who was made of wind.
The Skeleton looked through his lidless rims—
“ Ask the dingoes and crows,” he grinned.
‘ ‘ You grin ! Are you mocking at me, at :ne ? ”
The Shade to the Skeleton cried.
The Skeleton grinned. “It wasjtfw,” said he,
“ Who deserted me when I died.
“ In the drought you took your cowardly flight,
And left me a helpless prey
To the fangs of the desert dogs by night
And the beaks of the birds by day. ”
“ You lie,” said the Shade, “in your teeth— my
teeth. ”
The Skeleton broadly grinned ;
But he calmly said, “ You’re a thing beneath
Contempt; you are merely wind. ’'
“ Perhaps we were neither to blame, or both,”
Said the Shade who was only wind.
“Shake hands, old fellow! You’ve said it!
My oath ! ”
The Skeleton said, and grinned.
They shook, with their fingers of wind and bone,
And the Shade who was only wind
Looked hard in the eyes that were once his own ;
And the Skeleton only grinned.
“ I knew you at once. You are just the same.
You grin as you always grinned.
We can say it now, we were always game,”
Said the Shade who was only wind.
“ In the lusts of the flesh what times we had !
What glorious sins we sinned !
Oh ! the memory makes my dry bones glad,”
The Skeleton said, and grinned.
“ And we played our hand for all it was worth,”
Said the Shade, “ and on our own
For the love of life and the joys of earth.
But ever we went alone. ”
“ I’ve thought of it many a time since then,
Out here in the sun and wind ;
Oh ! the life we lived was a life for men,”
The Skeleton said, and grinned.
“ That life was a tumbler of half-and-half,”
Said the Shade, “it was lose and win ;
And we greeted the good luck with a laugh,
And the bad luck with a grin. ’ ’
“ Remember the sweet girl-mother we had ? ”
Said the Skeleton. “Oh ! her face !
Lit with a wonderful love for her lad ’ ’ —
The Skeleton stared at space.
“ I’ve seen her. She lives in the world to-day,”
Said the Shade ; “ I’ve seen her tears.
She weeps for the lad who’s so long away.
She’s withered with grief and years. ”
A warning wind from the end of the world
Wailed by, and the stars took fright;
And thousands of hurrying ghosts were hurled
To regions of endless night.
The Skeleton said, as he grinned through space,
“ I’ll battle it out —on my own.”
The Shade looked long on the Skeleton’s face,
And he said, “ I’ll go—alone.”
The Shade went back to the wandering star
On the wings of the morning wind.
The Skeleton lies on the wastes afar,
And grins, as he always grinned.
WESTRALIA.
JAMES SAYERS.
A Ticket in “Tatt’s.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. ERNEST MILFORD sat in the little
room behind the little shop, engaged in
his favorite pastime. “ Occupation ” was
not a word to be used in connection with Mr.
Milford. His watery blue eyes and carelessly
held figure and general air of idleness all com-
bined to make it incongruous.
As he himself said, his wife “kep’ ’im like a
gen’l’man,” and she was quite contented to slave
a good 14 hours out of the 24 to do it. She was
at the wash-tub now, and the “ glug glug”of
soapy clothes against the board drifted in a
soothing monotone to Mr. Milford’s ears.
There were piles of white and colored papers
before him—the accumulated Tattersall tickets
and results for the past three years. He compared
each much-thumbed ticket carefully with its cor-
responding prize list, shaking his head afresh each
time he failed to discover a similarity in numbers.
He had gone over these tickets and lists dozens of
times already, but he never wearied of the occu-
pation.
“ Poun’s an’ poun’s paid in, an’ not a bloomin’
stiver in return.” He picked up a result list.
“ Noomarkit ’Andicap,” he muttered. “ Now,
where’s yer mate ? Number 14,479,” be read ;
then, “Jumpin’ Moses ! ’Owever ’ave we missed
it ? Noomarkit ’Andicap ” —he compared the two
papers feverishly—“ Prizes o’ five ’undred poun’s
A TALE OF THE DEAD.
OLD SALT (reminiscently): “ Yus! It was a pretty willin' ' go.' Two hundred dead
marines lay forrard, and"
MULGA MIKE (happening along): “Seems familiar-like , mate. Wot wuz the name
of the pub? ”
cash —7582 and 9646, and 14,479. Must ’a’ bin
the way ’twuz folded. Ther tops bin all creased,
an’ ”
There was a rap on the counter, and mechani-
cally Ernest called “ Shop !”
Mrs. Milford bustled in, a short, podgy figure,
wiping podgy little arms on an all-enveloping apron.
“A penny saverloy,” was the order. “Just
fancy ! ” said the little woman as she came back,
“ That makes ss. 7d. took already to-day ! ”
But Ernest’s thoughts were soaring. “Wet’s
five bob ? ” he demanded.
His wife began to count on her fingers. “ Well,
we gits ther saverloys at a ’napenny each, an’
sells ’em at a penny till they’re tainted ; then, o’
course, they go corse price. Arf o’ 5/7, Ern ? ”
“ Arf o’ five ’undrid solid quid,” returned that
gentleman.
“Watcher mean?” said Mrs. Milford, her
breath coming quickly. “Yer don’t say ; no, yer
carn’t, yer carn’t,” she ended, ambiguously.
“ But I do,” her husband informed her ; “ ’nif
I’d ’ad a wife wiv a partygull o’ sense I’d ’a’
known it long ago. ’Stead o’ that, I’m kep’ out
o’ my rights fur over three munce, an’ then wor-
ried about stinkin’ saverloys.”
“ Le’ me see ! ” said the little woman.
GOOD LUCK.
TRAINER : “I say, Bill , afore you go into the
ring just put this ’ere horseshoe in your
glove fer good luck. ”
“ Shan’t,” said Ernest. “ Carn’t yer take yer
own lawful ’usban’s word ? I tell yer, I’ve won
five ’undred quid. But that’s like yer,” he added
witheringly, “ never satisfied. ”
Mrs. Milford began to sniff. “ Oh, Ern, I
never said a thing, an’ then yer go an’ rouse on
me like this fur nothin’. ”
“Now, dry up,” snapped her husband.
“ Carn’t yer give a man a bit o’ peace fur once ?
Yer clo’es is boilin’ over ! ”
• “Never min’ ther clo’es, Ern. Let’s see’ow
we’ll spend ther money. I s’pose we might as
well sell the little bit o’ trade, not that it’ll bring
much, but we might as well.”
“ I don’ know,” said Mr. Milford, slowly ; “it’s
a very tidy bizness, an’ oughter keep yer pretty
comferable. Yer wouldn’t ’ave no need ter take
in washin’ on yer own, I s’pose, an’ that ’ud be
somethin’.”
“But —but” There was a large wonder
in the little woman’s eyes and voice.
. Her husband did not heed her, but hurried on.
“ You’re well known ’ere, an’ I think, p’raps, it
’ud be best fur yer to stop. Yer see,” he added,
apologetically, “ I’m thinkin’ o’ goin’ back to
Melbourne, an’ I couldn’t very well intradooce
yer to my people there.”
Mr. Milford’s father was a tailor, and his
brother a member of the same profession. Of his
two sisters, one worked in a Syrian’s shirt factory ;
the other was married to a bottle-oh. But Mr.
Milford had visions of an hotel. A nice neat
little pub with perhaps a stylish girl to help him
in it. He pulled at his sickly moustache, enjoy-
ing its softness of touch.
“You’re ’appy ’ere,” he continued, “an’ I
ain’t denyin’ but what yer’ve bin a good wife ; but
yer’d only feel out o’ place if I took yer wiv me.
O’ course, it wuz orl right ’fore —’fore I come intra
ther cash.”
“ I paid fur ther ticket that got it,” said Mrs.
Milford.
“ It’s in my name, though,” said her husband
sharply, “ ‘ Hernest Milford, hesquire.’ I
’dressed ther enverlopes meself. As I told yer
before, things would ’a’ bin diff’rent if I ’adn’t ’a’
come intra ther cash. It’s only nat’ral now I
wants ter see me ’ome an’ erquaintances, an’ all
that. 'Sides, I’ve never said nothin’ ’bout it be-
fore, but —yer ways isn’t mine. It’s all very well
in ther shop ’ere, but yer’d only be mis’rable in
serciety. Look at yer ’ands, now, fur instance.”
They were twitching nervously in Mrs. Mil-
ford’s lap, and their cracked redness attracted her
husband’s attention.
“They’ve worked fur you,” she said, very low.
“ I ain’t furgettin’,” Ernest told her, “ an’ I’m
not ungrateful, neither. I wouldn’t mind, say, a
fiver. ’ ’
“Yer wouldn’t mind, say, a fiver,” the little
woman repeated after him, dully.
“ Er even a tenner, p’r’aps,” he concluded,
with rising magnanimity.
“ Er even a tenner, p’r’aps,” the thin, husky
voice echoed again.
“Don’t squawk like a damn parrot,” he
snapped, savagely.
Then Mrs. Milford revolted. The thin voice
attained an undreamed-of degree of shrillness and
poured forth an inexhaustible stream of eloquence.
Ernest wilted under it.
“ ’Ssh, ’ssh,” he said, deprecatingly.
“But I’ve ’ushed an’ bin a fool long
enough,” said Mrs. Milford. “Oh, a blin’,
starin’ idjut. Y’aint ungrateful, yer greedy
dorg ! Keep yer gratitood ! Shy it where
yer’ll shy yer lovely five ’undred poun’s.
As fur ME, I’m goin’ now at once. What’ve
I got ter go with? Ain’t there six munCe
rent doo ter-morrer ? Ain’t I got it in twenty-
four ’ard-earned ’alf-sovrins in ther savin’s-bank ?
That an’ ther saverloy account, eighteen shilluns
an’ fivepence, an’ ther corn beef, eleven an’
ninepence, an’ that ’am in ther shop, five an’
fourpence, an’ ther Germin sossidge, three an’
twopence, an’ sundries, ten shilluns exact. Yer
can pay ’em all yerself out o’ this fortune.”
“ I ’aven’t got it yet, though,” protested Ernest.
“ Show ’em ther ticket, then,” his wife advised.
“ I’ve scraped an’ worried enough to git ther
ercounts together, an’ I reckon I’ll ’ave ernough
fur a good long ’oliday ’fore I take a situation
agin, same as I’ve done before. I’ve worked an’
slaved fer yer, ungrudgin’, Em Milford, an’ I
thank the Lord there ain’t no kids. If there
wuz I’d leave yers with ’em, same as all that
washin’ yer wuz so anxious erbout.”
Then he heard her bumping about upstairs.
Presently she came in again, snatched up a
couple of photographs, shoved them into an
already crammed basket, and skewered her hat on
viciously.
“Yer kin tell ther time-paymint people ter
take back ther bits o’ sticks,” she told him, “ fur
they won’t see me in an ’urry. I come like a lady,
an’ I’ll go like one.”
She ran out and hailed a passing cab, bundled
her basket into it, and bade the man wait while
she made up a parcel of assorted “ small goods ’
for herself from the shop. Of the dazed Ernest
she took as little heed as of a dead fly.
Her last words were called to him from the cab
as he stood in the doorway, where he had fol-
lowed her.
“ An’, remember, Ern Milford, when yer
stony-broke, don’t think I’m cornin’ back ter keep
yer, fur I’m not. I’m gone fur good.”
Pie shut the shop door and slouched inside.
Ticket and “result” were as he had left them.
He took one more look before posting them.
Seme smaller print on the ticket caught his eye.
“ Run at Flemington, Victoria, March 2nd,
1907,” was plain enough on the prize list.
But the ticket’s wicked little black print said
“ Run at Flemington , Victoria , March 2nd , 1906
And the little woman had meant what she said.
LILLIAS GORDON.


LIFE ASSURANCE—THE SAFE AND
THE RISKY.
The man who first made a road paved the way
{or many a thing besides his own hearse. After
the road, came the lord and the lordling’s chariots;
after them came the stage-coach ; after the stage-
coach came the locomotive and its train ; with the
train came the cheap and rapid post —the penny
post and the ha’penny post and the twopenny
post; with the post, flanked by the printing
machine and the schoolmaster, came the first
effective means of pushing an idea into practically
every home in the land. Without a thought of
the romance at the back of it all, we put a penny
stamp on our letter and drop it into the nearest
pillar—with a bitten-off curse, perhaps, if the in-
dulgent State hasn’t supplied us with a pillar
nearer than 200 yards from our office-desk or our
fireside. And yet, though treated so casually,
what a monument of marvellous things not only
made possible, but actually accomplished, is this
pillar-box 1 A hundred years ago the man who
had a brilliant idea could practically spread
it only by going on a crusade ; then, mounting the
stump, he scattered it among just as many as he
could laboriously gather within sound of his voice.
True, something that passed for his brilliant idea
gained greater currency than that. Those who
heard, and very frequently didn’t understand,
passed it on, with frills and strange distortions.
And by reason of these frills and strange distor-
tions history is full of cases of apparently sane
men standing at the head of weird and unaccount-
able movements—sane men to whom were ascribed
the most amazing plans and the most grotesque
pretensions.
But the post office, supported on the one side by
the printer and on the other side by the pedagogue,
has wrought a wonderful change. To-day the man
who hatches a brilliant idea may within a week
lay it before practically every man and woman in
even this Commonwealth of vast distances—may
lay it before them, not with the imperfections of
hastily-uttered speech, but with the calm, meas-
ured deliberation of the written word; and,
though the voice of the Man with the Idea might
not reach 500 ears, his written word may easily
reach a million eyes, while he, waiting in his
home for the response, may at least repose in
the perfect assurance that the Great Idea will
reach every eye dressed in the exact form in
which he has chosen to present it. Then, just
as through one postal pillar one man has spoken
to the whole country, back through 10,000 pillars
the country sends its response to the man. And
appeal and response have cost, on the average,
perhaps threepence.
It was inevitable that, upon this new and mag-
nificent development o'f modern civilisation, other
new and magnificent developments of modern
civilisation should be built. Now, one of the first
things that civilisation thinks of is to-morrow;
and not of to-morrow as a time when man may
work, but as a time when possibly he may not be
able to earn a crust either for himself or for his
dependents. Of one of two things every man is
sure—either he will live to old age, or death will
come to him before he is old. Which it is
that Fate has in store for him no man knows,
except in those few cases in which for some
special reason early death is practically certain.
No man, apart from these few, knows whether
he will live long enough to make provision for
those who are dependent upon him, and who will
not die with him, but will go on being just as
hungry and just as cold as when he was alive and
able to buy food and clothing for them out of his
earnings. It isn’t any use arguing why this amaz-
ing uncertainty of life should be part of the scheme
of things ; the fact of the uncertainty exists. And
it exists in a greater degree than probably most
of us will admit to ourselves. In spite of a few
hymns in which church congregations are invited
to express a contrary opinion, there are not many
of us who care to think that the gravedigger will
have a job on our account to-morrow ; and in our
efforts to push the gravedigger as far into the
future as possible, we get what help we can by
persuading ourselves that, though death, comes to
all men, it comes to most men with leaden feet.
But when we quit Desire and come to Fact, we get
little encouragement for that opinion. Of all the
males who died in the Commonwealth betweenl9ol
and 1906 only 27 ‘B4 per cent, had reached the age
of 65 years, and only 25'36 per cent, of the females.
Of every 1000 people who died within those years
156 were between the ages of 20 and 40, and
another 173, though they passed 40, did not reach
60 years. Less than 32 per cent, had passed that
limit. Death spares no age whatever.
While civilisation saw, therefore, that no man
could make sure of providing for his own depen-
dents, it also saw, clearly and more clearly as the
years went on, that by co-operation every man’s
dependents could be provided for. There were,
however, enormous difficulties —till the cheap
post was evolved. Then it became possible to
gather into one joint enterprise enough members
to make the law of averages hold good, so that it
could be known just how much each member
ought to pay; then, also, it became possible to
collect the contributions to the common fund, and
with little expense of management, to pay out
the fruits of the joint enterprise as first this and
then that member dropped out by the way. And
thus the world got modern Life Assurance.
There had, certainly, been life assurance before
that. Right back in the days of Moorish piracy
the merchants paid a premium to raise the ransom
in case of capture. After that there were small
death clubs and local burial clubs; a man paid a
fixed entrance fee, and each member paid a fixed
sum whenever another member died. But, apart
from the fact that these little societies were local,
so that for all practical purposes a man had to
lose the benefits for which he had been paying if he
moved to another part of the country, that was a
rough-and-ready way : it took no account of the
fact that a man at 50 was more liable to death
than a man at 25. Finally, the Amicable Society,
recognising that flaw in the scheme, refused to
take in people who were over 45 ; and out of that
refusal sprang the Equitable of England, founded
in 1762, and stili in existence. But that was in
the days before the cheap post; it was in the
days when the Brilliant Idea was spread
with great difficulty, so that early insurance
enterprise was not much more like the insurance
enterprise of to-day than a bullock waggon is like
the Melbourne-Sydney express. Springing out of
the old death clubs, the new insurance concern,
the Equitable, was naturally a mutual benefit
society. Nobody was particularly interested in
spreading it far and wide, and so it employed no
canvassers and paid no commission; and on that
basis it remains to this day. Refusing to grasp
the opportunity which the cheap post and other
modern agencies have made available, the Equit-
able of England is content to jog along and make
such small progress as comes to it from its ancient
history; yet so small is the progress, run on those
lines, that its funds now amount to under
£5,000,000.
Out of these unscientific, yet, no doubt, highly
valuable, funeral and death clubs, naturally grew,
then, the mutual idea of life assurance. There was,
nevertheless, no particular virtue about the mutual
plan as applied to life assurance. It was no more
applicable to life assurance than to most other
things. In fact, there was a distinctly weak link
in the very front of the chain. Look back at the
old death club, and it will be remembered that,
having paid a fixed sum to get in, every member
paid a fixed amount whenever any other member
died. Therefore, provided members were as good
as their promise, the club wasn’t in danger of
bankruptcy even if half-a-dozen members died
within the first few weeks of the club’s life. But
with the insurance society, founded on the new
principle of no entrance fee and graduated pay-
ments annually, a run of bad luck might very
easily leave the concern absolutely stranded. Even
in an old-established office the outgoings—interest
earnings included—are occasionally greater than
the incomings ; and if the same experience falls to
a mutual life office in the first few years of its life,
it cannot possibly do anything but repudiate its
contracts. Thus, so far from being the only
natural basis for life assurance organisations, the
purely mutual idea became established in what
may be called an accidental manner—simply be-
cause the old death clubs were mutual. And it
had moreover the inherent defect that it was
liable to be swamped before it could get a fair
start. Mutual offices, when they have managed
to pull through their first few years, have in
many cases been successful. But in spite of
that, there is obviously nothing sacred about the
mutual insurance idea. It is nqt even such a good
idea that there cannot very easily be a better one.
What are the essentials, then, of the better
plan ? First, of course, this very serious matter
of the liability to collapse and ruin, especially
during the first few years of life, has to be
guarded against. That can be done in only one
way—by putting up, or undertaking to put up
enough capital to see the contracts through.
There are only two lots of people to do the putting
up: one, the policy-holders themselves; the other,
independent capitalists. An effort has been made
in some cases to get the policy-holders to take on
the risk. Such offices are run on what is known
as the assessment plan ; that is to say, the policy-
holder whose premium is £5 a year never knows
when it may be, put up to £7 or £lO a year.
It may be put up like that at the moment when
he can least afford the money. Yet, if he cannot
pay, his life-assurance is forfeited, and by reason
of age or other infirmity he may no longer be in a
position to afterwards obtain other insurance.
That plan is therefore loaded up to the muzzle.
The 1.0. F. is the only example of an assessment
office which has become known to Australia; and
at least one Government regarded the system as
so hazardous that it ordered the word “Assess-
ment” to be written across the policy in ink of the
same color as the railway man uses when he wants
to signal danger. Australia, at any rate, won’t
have any of that system. Then the only
thing to do is to call in persons who will agree to
take a part of the underwriting risk in return for
a small share in any possible profits. That office
which offers to policy-holders the whole of any
profits that may be made may look the most
attractive. But that office which, besides the
policy-holders’ contributions, is safeguarded also
by some shareholders’ capital is the safest. It has
all the protection that the mutual office affords,
and it has another safety appliance into the
bargain.
And there are other considerations with regard
to safety. In the beginning the mutual assurance
office was started with the one object of providing
the co-operators with life assurance. They had no
other end to serve, no other ironmongery to grind.
But, after mutual offices were dotted all over
the earth, and when therefore anybody who
wanted insurance could get it, there must
obviously have been some other reason for the
establishment of new offices. When it is reflected
that every new office needs a manager and
some canvassers, and presently a secretary, an
accountant, a medical referee, and other people,
the reason for establishing the new office is con-
spicuous enough. The men who establish a new
office, in 99 cases out of a hundred, do it to estab-
lish a new job for themselves. And then,, though
there is nothing in the least dishonest or immoral
in a man building up a job for himself in that
way, nevertheless another danger creeps in at
that point. In life assurance you don’t get the
goods on payment of the cash. You pay by instal-
ments, and the size of the instalments is a matter
of calculation. Now, in the struggle for a foot-
ing, where competition is keen, the new man
is inclined to offer too much rather than too little.
Often he concludes that his only hope of succeed-
ing is in offering more than his competitors.
Whether he is offering too much only time can
tell for certain. If he and those whom he repre-
sents put money into the business, they would,
if they were ordinary men, thoroughly assure
themselves that their tables were sound and that
they could carry out their promises and fulfil
their contracts. Where, however, none of their
capital is at stake—when, in other words, it is a
purely mutual office—there is not this chastening
and restraining influence. Consequently, not
only is the insurance office with something at
stake besides the shareholders’ funds safer in
the early years of its life, but it is
from its very nature safer also in the later years
of its life, inasmuch as it has given a pledge and
put up a money guarantee that its tables are
sound, which the purely mutual office cannot pos-
sibly do, since it has no capital to put up.
In the beginning of life assurance there was no
such thing as a surplus. The clubs collected fixed
amounts, and they paid out fixed amounts, and
the book was square. But as soon as the idea of
graduated premiums, scaled according to age,
was introduced, things began To change. The
statisticians and actuaries were able to find out
what was the average healthy man’s expectation
of life at any age. On that they were able to cal-
culate how much a man of that age need pay in to
accumulate the sum for which lie wanted insur-
ance. The actuary had two things to consider —
(1) on the amount paid in by instalments, how
much interest could be earned ; and (2) how much
would have to be added to pay for expenses of
management? There might be a saving another
way, but the doctor was more concerned with it—
could they not so select their risks that their
policy-holders would live longer than the average
of men, and consequently pay in more premiums,
and also allow of a bigger accumulation of
interest ? It was mainly out of the possi-
bilities of making savings and profits in
these directions that the call sprang for good
management. It was no longer a question of
merely paying in a fixed sum, and taking out a
fixed "sum : it became a question of business
organisation and administration in order that
substantial bonuses might be paid ; for the larger
the bonus, the smaller, of course, the net cost of
the insurance. And so much has been done for
insurers by means of this good management that a
policy which was estimated to cost, say, £2 Bs. 9d.
a vear, cost in 1907 only £1 6s. 2d.—the actual
result of a policy issued by the Citizens’ _ Life
Assurance Co. In other words, such administra-
tive skill and special ability are now devoted to
the business that over one-half of the cost of
insurance was saved last year by the holder
of a whole-life policy taken out in the
Citizens’ office 20 years ago. Or, put in
another way, the difference Detween a poorly-
managed office and a well-managed office is so
great that, though the fixed table of rates is
necessarily almost the same in every office, the
actual cost of the same amount of insurance
varied on last year’s figures between £l2s. 2d. in
that case, and £2 3s. lOd. in the case of another
office—a mutual office. In the mutual office,
which was able to afford only a small bonus,
a policy taken out 20 years previously, by
a man then aged 30, would cost £2 3s. lOd.
after deducting the cash value of the
bonus; while in the Citizens’ Life Assurance
Co., standing at the top of the list, the same
policy would cost £1 2s. 2d. after deducting the
cash value of the Citizens’ magnificent bonus.
Thus one sees the vast»importance of selecting an
office in which good management is busy earning
money for the policy-holders. Put into, figures,
the difference between good and bad is in some
cases fully Bs. in the £.
And Bs. in the £ is a good deal for a man to
allow prejudice or ignorance or mere carelessness
to cost him. Yet prejudice and ignorance and
carelessness have had a big pull in life assurance.
There has, for instance, been the prejudice against
any sort of office that wasn’t purely mutual, not-
withstanding that, as previously shown, the
mutual idea needs something else to make it com-
plete, just as the bank needs something besides
deposits to make it perfectly safe for the depositors.
No business man would consider for a moment
a proposal to deposit his money with a bank
which had no other capital than the depositors
money. Yet that is tne mutual idea, in all its
simplicity —and also in all its danger. The mutual
bank, with no shareholders’ capital, might be per-
fectly safe. The mutual insurance office may also
be perfectly safe. But the wise man, who wants
to be quite sure, will be more comfortable if he
sees that the shareholders have something at
stake ; and he ought to be equally as anxious to
see a similar guarantee in his insurance office.
There are ways of inflating insurance profits,
and therefore bonuses. Take £l, and every year
add another £1 to it, and invest the accumulating
fund at 3 h per cent., and in 25 years you have £3B
19s. But'invest the fund at 5 per cent, and you
have £47 14s. 6d. In order to show large returns,
and therefore large profits, it is only necessary,
then, to put the funds into speculative risks that
give a high rate of interest. With that policy in
force, the policy-holder will be rejoiced with large
additions to the amount of his insurance ; but, un-
fortunately, it is quite possible that in the end he
won’t be able to collect the insurance, because the
security in which his funds were invested will
have evaporated. Important, therefore, as it may
be to get insurance at the lowest cost possible,
it is still more important to be able to collect the
insurance after you have bought and paid for it.
In a purely mutual office the difficulty is that, in
such a case, there is no other fund except; the
policy-holders’ own contributions to draw upon.
With an office such as the Citizens, which has
in addition the security of shareholders’ called
and uncalled capital, it is much less likely that the
funds will be risked in order to secure big interest
returns, and therefore big bonuses. For whenever
the management in such a case is offered an in-
vestment, the sobering thought must push itself
in—“ Will this mean loss to me ? ” In the purely
mutual office a heavy loss of capital might mean
loss of prestige for the management. In the other
sort of office it means not only loss of prestige,
but loss of the shareholders’ hard cash as well.
The clear realisation of that has an obvious effect
on the investments of the Citizens’ office. That
progressive concern offers its policy-holders the
additional protection of some share capital, called
and uncalled ; and since the shareholders would
have to come up to the scratch if the policy-
holders’ funds were wasted or lost, the utmost
care is exercised in the selection of securities.
Of every £lOO of its assets at December 31 last,
the Citizens’ office had, accordingly, no less than
£5B 14s. in Government and other public stocks—
a proportion vastly in excess of that held by any
other of the big insurance offices of Australasia.
These public securities are not only the most
liquid of all assets (other than actual oash), but
the holder knows to a penny what he will get for
them on maturity, and, more important than all,
they are guaranteed by the whole taxable wealth
within command of the Government or other
public authority which issues the loan. If there
is a great slump in the value of Brown’s property,
on which an office has a mortgage, Jones and
Smith, who are Brown’s neighbors, are under no
obligation to see that the mortgagee gets 20s. in
the £. But when the State issues a loan, then
the property of Brown and Jones and Smith is all
equally taxable until the uttermost farthing of the
debt is paid. The office that has the greatest
proportion of its assets in such securities has
therefore given its policy-holders the best guaran-
tee that it will pay what it has undertaken to
pay- ......
And, after all, the insurance office which in-
vests most largely in these best of all securities
really loses very little in the matter of interest,
while it gains enormously in the matter of safety.
On the average, the Australian or Maoriland
Government stock will yield about £3 18s. per
cent.; and the best of mortgages will not yield
more than 4 per cent. The A.M.P., in its last
annual report, showed that it held, on December
31 last, no less than £3,560,000 of mortgages upon
which it was receiving that return, or less; and
when the losses and the extra cost of management
are taken into account, the net return is very
little, if any, better than could be got from the
public security into which the Citizens’ puts the
greater part of its funds. Thus the Citizens’
policy in this matter, while it gives greater
security, results in very little, if any, loss of earn-
ings, and therefore very little, if any, loss of
bonuses. And if there is any loss in that way, it
is more than made up in other ways.
Having its own capital at stake, an office such
as the Citizens’, which has grafted a shareholders’
guarantee on to the mutual principle, will be
naturally inclined to aim at solvency above all
things. If, for any reason, the policy-holders’
funds are not sufficient to meet claims, then the
shareholders must meet them. One result of this
has been that the Citizens’ has assumed lower
interest earnings for the future than any other
office in Australasia. It was shown just now that
a fund built up of an annual contribution of £1
invested at per cent, will in 25 years
amount to £3B“ 195., while the same fund in-
vested at 5 percent, would amount to £47 14s. 6d.
In order to nave a certain definite amount in hand
at a given date, the higher that you assume your in-
terest earnings will be, the less the amount you need
have in hand to begin with. The amount that an
office has in hand in excess of the amount required
is the surplus available for bonuses. An office
which aims at absolute solvency—which aims
always to be able to meet its engagements and
have a bit to spare—will therefore assume the
lowest possible rate of interest. Failure to make
the policy-holders’ funds meet the policy obliga-
tions would mean actual financial loss to the men
who manage the Citizens’; therefore it was the
most natural thing in the world that, while
other offices were assuming that in the future
they would earn from 3 to 4 per cent., the
Citizens’ assumed that it would earn only 2f per
cent. In respect of all assurance and endow-
ment business taken since the beginning of 1900
this 2f per cent, rate is employed by its actu-
aries. As this is a lower rate of interest than any
other Australian office assumes, it follows that
the Citizens’ has stronger reserves than any other
office. And the strength of an office lies in the
strength of its reserves.
It was, no doubt, with an eye to the guarantee
it had given in the shape of paid up and uncalled
capital that the management a few years ago en-
gaged Mr. Ralph Hardy, one of the most dis-
tinguished of British consulting actuaries, to come
to Australia and report as to the position
of the office. It was a pretty risky thing
to do. Mr. Hardy was entirely independent of
the office : he simply dealt with it as an actuarial
problem. Had he damned it, had he cast any
doubt whatever upon its solvency, had he
questioned its methods, it might almost as well
have shut up shop, so far as trying to get new
business was concerned. But, on the other hand,
supposing the office was proceeding on wrong or
unsafe lines, then things would go from bad to
worse, and in the end the shareholders wiuld lose
their paid capital and probably have to pay up a
great deal of the uncalled capital as well. They
had faith enough in their office to take the risk of
all that Mr. Hardy might say. Confessing after-
wards that he set about his task with some
prejudices, Mr. Hardy reported that he had
probed the organisation at every point, and
at every point he had found it satisfactory.
Year by year since then Mr. Hardy has been
furnished with detailed schedules showing the
whole transactions of the office ; and on the last
occasion (Dec. 11, 1907) he wrote: “In view of
the strong valuation reserves made, of the margins
left upon the premiums, and of the considerable
untouched source of future profit involved in the
low estimated interest yield of only 2f and 3 per
cent., I am of opinion that the appropriation of
£49,301 for immediate bonus distribution [for
1906] was justified ; and that the financial position
of the company, in respect of both the present
reserves and its expectation of future profits,
entitles it to the full confidence of the Australian
public.” No better thing could be said of an in-
surance office than than it is entitled to the full
confidence of the public ; and there is no man
living who, judging by his professional status, is
better qualified than Mr. Hardy to say whether
an office is entitled to that confidence or not.
It was mentioned just now that Mr. Ralph
Hardy had confessed that he set about his work
with a certain amount of prejudice against the
Citizens’ office. It is interesting to trace that
prejudice back to its source. Mr. Hardy knew
nothing definite —it was just a vague impression
he had been given. Many another besides Mr.
Hardy has met the same vague impression; and
unfortunately not all of these others have since
been able, like Mr. Hardy, to investigate the
subject for themselves. In the first place, it
wasn’t a mutual office. “Mutual’’ had been
turned into a shibboleth in Australia, not because
the principle had been inquired into, but
because one Australian mutual office in par-
ticular had hitherto given very good results.
The Citizens’ office came and strengthened
the mutual principle where it was weak;
and instantly it earned the sneers of the
men whose business in life it was to show that the
mutual office represents perfection. A sneer is
not an argument; but it is the material out of
which “vague impressions” are mostly made.
And then there was the question of industrial
insurance. Industrial insurance wasn’t quite
respectable—it wasn’t explained why ; it was a
matter of vague impression again. This office, it
was said, lived and fattened on the pence of the
poor; and, for once, it wasn’t respectable to live
and fatten on the pence of the poor. The Citizens’
was alleged to show a low expense rate for ordi-
nary business by charging an extortionate rate for
industrial business. It really didn’t matter one
straw to the industrial policy-holder what the
expense rate in that branch was. The industrial
policy-holder got his contract of insurance;
whether the office spent much or little in
carrying on the business didn’t affect him in the
smallest degree. Then gradually it came to be
recognised that perhaps industrial business might
be respectable, after all; and finally the A.M.P.
Society resolved to go into the business that
“wasn’t respectable”—the A.M.P. Society,
which had stood aloof from it for years, and whose
managers were among those who had a vague im-
pression that the thing wasn’t possible. It was a
practical confession that the Citizens’ had foreseen
things which were hidden from the A.M.P. Just
as Mr. Hardy’s report had been a triumph for the
office from a British source, so was theA.M.P.’s
tardy following in the Citizens’ footsteps a
triumph for the same office from an Australian
source.
And the A.M.P.’s establishment of an indus-
trial department three years ago did something
more for the Citizens’ —it completely exploded
the idea that the office was getting fat on the
pence of the poor. On the contrary, in spite of
all the prestige of the A.M.P., that society has
found that, instead of being able to draw anything
from the industrial department to fatten the
ordinary department, the industrial department
has so far been a drain upon the ordinary depart-
ment —such a drain, in fact, that up to the end of'
last year the society had been obliged to subsidise
the industrial department to the extent of £18,741.
Later on things may improve. But this has to be
remembered—the vague charges with respect to
the Citizens’ Assurance Co. fattening on the
industrial business were made in the office’s
earlier days; in just those days, in short, through
which the A.M.P. industrial office has so far
passed. With the experience of the A.M.P. to
guide it, the public can see now how much there
was in those charges. And so another, and about
the last, of the old vague impressions concerning
the Citizens’ office has been shattered; and for
the future it may at least be hoped that the con-
cern will be judged strictly upon its merits.
Then if there is anyone who does not feel
himself competent to judge, to him at
least the verdict of one who is competent
can be submitted. That one is Mr. Ralph Hardy,
and his verdict is that, on account both of the
remarkable solidity of its present position
and of the fine probabilities with regard to future
bonuses, the Citizens’ is entitled “ to the full con-
fidence of the Australian public.”


A 1 v 4-
DISCOVERY OF AMERICA.
On the landing of Columbus he was rather surprised to find Roosevelt and
Rockefeller already there, prospecting for bears and kerosene. “You didn’t
really flatter yourself that you were the first arrival, did you?” said they.
Pllwrim hh ! P •f rim Papers (and mothers). Note that the
Pilgrim baby in the above picture was Silas Washington Hopkins,
the ancestor of the present scribe. He became further distinguished
later on by Inventing Basswood hams.
Quakers were also found lo be
socially impossible* and had to be
unostentatiously got rid of.
The first thing to be done was to clear the forests
of superfluous trees and Indians, in this great work
they employed axes, rum, rifles and religion.
When a Pilgrim Father went out without hi*
gun he usually went home bald-headed.
f l SOME GREAT \
/ AMERICAN
/ BATTLES.
Battle of Bunker Hill.
This picture .is drawn from
.memory, and may not be
li n alt respects accurate.
Infant industries sprang up in the
new land, and Silas W. Hopkins (men-
tioned above) amassed a huge fortune
in the Basswood ham
trade. Which proves
tjiat there is more
money in Com-
_merce than • in
High Art.
Battle of Tom Burns and Bill Squires.
THE GREAT CIVIL
WAR.
The casus belli is
seen in the back-
ground.
Giving the Eagle a Ice*
“HOP” ON THE ITED STATES' FLEET


N.t.« t.u„ %b
Bf’ooc/ S '-ft
C'nc/ r a^/te
?(/T// r V£ ZZfRSOR
Sydney Olr!: •* I won-
der if that’s. Lieu-
tenant Hobson., and
oughtn’t wc to kiss
him ?”
?S I™:;,
Our visitors may find the Australian
variety of mermaid more or less dia-
appointing.
Oyshing Young Person : •• What
a beauffui stream the Swanee
S«l.r M.„ ,wh. to , b«„ .„“ c «7?r,', “ “• hy "" »*>■ =•■■
from him, of course—by her sine-int*/? .f? , WaS ex P e cted
m darned if | know ; and I never*mft H’s—it’s—well,
never met anyone wbo did I ”
the mascottes of the
LOUISIANA.
Sydney Policeman : .. Look
here, them dogs ’ll have
to be quarantined.”
American Tar:- But they’re
our mascottes! ”
Policeman: ” Don’t care if
they re mascottes, or
poodles, or tarriers. The
Law don’t take no
count o’ breeds, and
into quarantine thev
goes I ” y
Jack and Bill take a cruise up country.
Bill (to Jack on horseback): “ Re-
member the Mane, Jack.”
The officers and crew’s Happy Day
at Manly— according to programme.
been one continual " tlTof’/Jlv^ ** done me prou d ; It’s
"»* -i wl» rtrZa r '"' r " "»
ITED STATES’ FLEET.


FACSIMILE
OF
THE
GENUINE
NO. 4711
EAU
DE
COLOGNE.
ASK
FOR IT.
aC&i
deaitde col-
pa
m
r-I'ZtTH
Ttzstes
ibihsieh
ANALYSIS : “ ‘4711 ’ Eau de Cologne is of the
best quality, and absolutely pure.”
GRANVILLE H. SHARPE,
F.C.S.L., Analyst.
The World’s Finest!
THAT Famous Number, has become known as the
Trade Mark of the World's Finest Perfumery and
Toilet Preparations.
These perfumes are the delight of all who know them, and,
being the best, are most economical and healthful in use.
The Rose Glycerine Soaps and Toilet Productions
are aids to beauty and health.
Select these famous preparations from the numberless
imitations that abound, and you will be the gainer.
The genuine are always stocked by reputable Chemists,
Drapers, and Stores. Look for the Trade Mark, i
0
leads the
world pre-
eminently
in the
superiority
and skill of its manufacture.
4711 RHINE VIOLET TALCUfI
POWDER is an Antiseptic Toilet
requisite which softens, soothes
and purifies the skin.
—
4711 EAU DE COLOGNE TOOTH
POWDER cleanses, preserves
and beautifies the teeth while
imparting Purity and Fragrance
to the breath.
The Coming’ of the Fleet.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN the great white hulls come stealing
And America’s pride is wheeling in
And the boom of their guns is pealing in
On the breath of the foaming seas ;
When the welcoming craft go steaming out,
And the falls of the anchors are screaming out,
And the Stars and the Stripes are streaming out
On the wings of the nor’-east breeze ;
When the guns on the shore reply again,
With their bellowing throats on high again,
Till the shuddering echoes die again,
And we haste to the waiting feast ;
In the midst of the fun and the cheering now,
Down the vistas of Time are we peering now,
To the strenuous days that are nearing now,
And the Shadow within the East ?
Do we picture another fleet nearing then,
And the terrors we’ll all be fearing then,
And the things we’ll be seeing and hearing then,
When the blood begins to run ?
When, instead of the Stars and Bars on high,
And the cheers of America’s tars on high,
A flag will be flung to old Mars on high—
The flag of the Rising Sun !
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.
Its Own Reward.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SPIKE HEYDON had so many names and
occupations and was so chameleon-like
generally that it is necessary to go to a
certain volume filled with yellow leaves to find
any reliable data regarding him. In the volume
referred to appear two excellent photographs of
Spike Heydon, one full face and the other in
profile, with, beneath them, carefully-printed fac-
similes of the marks on his fingers and thumbs.
Beside these is written, “Archibald Heydon,
native of Victoria ; dealer; born, 1880. Height,
sft. 9m. ; weight on admission, list. 2lb. ;
weight on discharge, list. 41b. Peculiar marks :
Ballet girl on right forearm; A.H.I.L. on left
upper arm. September 20, 1900, receiving,
Criminal Sessions, Melbourne. Six months
ILL. Alias Spike, alias Green, alias Maloney.
See N.S.W. Criminal Album.”
To have recorded against you a single “ sixer ”
after preying on society almost continuously for
at least six years is unusual, and a source of for-
givable pride.
“Those who tumble in,” remarked Spike,
‘ ‘ call that sort of thing luck. I call it good
management. But I suppose that's the way with
everybody that’s successful. They take credit to
themselves.”
Neither the burglar of convention nor the aris-
tocratic malefactor of the “ Spider ” or “ Raffles ”
ype found any place in Spike Heydon. He was
just an ordinary-looking sort of young man of
apparently respectable antecedents. He spoke
decent English, didn't drop his aspirates, or use
the dialect of the larrikin clase. His attire was
“neat but not gaudy,” and he would pass—at
times he even had passed—as a bank clerk, or a
mechanic of the superior class, which latter, in
effect, he was. Spike had a certain amount of
luck in knowing the whereabouts of a good
“fence” —an estimable gentleman known as
Old Zack, who kept a second-hand shop
and maintained a connection with certain of
his own calling in England and America. Every
inward mail brought Old Zack parcels from
San Francisco and London, and every outward
mail carried from him certain packages in return.
Thus he was enabled to dispose publicly of goods
which would have led to heartburning and re-
crimination had they been found in the land of
their acquisition ; and, at the same time, to dis-
pose safely of goods collected at this end of the
world. Old Zack was a standing example of
the Private Enterprise which had solved the
problem of opening up fresh oversea markets for
Australian products.
Where Spike Heydon was able to claim credit
was in his methods. He played a lone hand.
He had no use for those jobs which required the
assistance of accomplices, who might subse-
quently appear in the witness box. He had even
resisted the temptation to engage in that most
lucrative of all forms of crime, bank robbery,
because it required more than one pair of hands
But Spike Heydon was ambitious, and he spent
laborious hours trying to work out a scheme by
DOMAIN “ DOSSERS."
1ST DOMANIAC : “Where are the American
sailors going to land , Thunderbolt —at Rose
Bay or Potts Point? ”
2ND DO.: “At neither, Willyum. Alfred and
Charles know what is doo to us. They
are landing Pm at our doors.”
which he, alone, might enter the strong-room of
some bank and burst open its safes. Not only
were the prizes large ; there was the glory of
being the pioneer—the first man to carry off
single-handed the blue ribbon of crime.
Meanwhile the problem was unsolved, and
Spike, by reason of the foresight and strategical
skill which placed him in the front rank of his
profession, read the society papers assiduously,
and found that Mr. Walter Murdon, M.L.C.,
Mrs. Murdon, and their children were about to
visit another State to take part in a big public
function. Spike Heydon thought the matter
worthy of investigation. By a judicious assump-
tion of a commercial character, and by an ultra-
respectful demeanor, he contrived to strike up an
acquaintance with one of the servants of the
Murdon household, and ascertained that she and
the other two girls were to be allowed to go to
their homes, while the house was left to the
governess and the gardener—an aged man who
slept in a little cottage 1 ooyds. from the premises.
This looked an easy one for Spike. Everybody
had heard of the wealth of the Murdon family.
If there was nothing more, there was the. big
motor challenge trophy won by Murdon at the
last Auto Club’s contest. Even at the depreciated
price of silver it would be worth the trouble oi
collection.
Spike saw the Murdon family off. He always
liked to attend to little details like that himself;
and at 12 o’clock the same night he rose from his
comfortable seat under a tree in the Murdon
garden and crossed the pathway to the side door.
At the third selection of keys the door opened
and he entered, closing it noiselessly behind him.
He moved along the hall to the dining room and
listened for a moment. No sound came from the
street.
Five minutes sufficed to place the motor trophy
and half-a-dozen portable and negotiable articles
of fair value in Spike’s bag. Still, there might
be better things to come. Spike was too business-
like a practitioner to carry away a big bag, when
there might be much more valuable plunder on
the premises which would go into his pockets.
He ascended the stairs and entered the front room.
As he pushed open the door he saw something
that made his heart —the heart of wide experience
and life-long training bump so hard that it
sounded in his ears. Silhouetted against the grey
background of sky framed by the front window
was the figure of a man. Spike’s first thought was
that the intruder was either a John or a night
watchman who had stalked him as he entered.
He stood against the wall ready to rush for the
window the moment the man left the room.
The stranger lowered himself. He was in his
stocking feet. Spike smiled. It was a fellow
member of the Underworld. As the man tiptoed
his way to the passage, almost touching Spike,
the latter felt an impulse to play a huge joke on
the other burglar by grabbing him by the neck.
But he resisted the impulse. Most people in
Spike’s position would have spoken, and arrived
at an honorable understanding with the other.
Spike thought differently. Even the loss of the
swag on the ground floor was preferable to plac-
ing °himself in the power of another. But the
stranger didn’t descend the stairs. Spike heard
him shuffle along the passage to one of the back
rooms. He fol-
lowed, pausing at
the door as the
stranger struck a
light.
The bed on the
far side was occu-
pied. On the
pillow lay the head
of a girl with a
wealth of golden
hair forming an
aureole around it.
The girl was beau-
tiful. Her eyes
were closed, and
the heaving of her
breast through the
counterpane show-
ed the soundness
of her sleep. The
stranger raised the
candle, and gloat-
ed over her face
with a look of
triumph. He was a
man of 35 or 40,
handsome in a way, bloated, well-dressed, and
obviously a member of the class that describes
itself as gentlemen. He laid his hand on the girl’s
shoulder.
“ Muriel,” he said.
The girl opened her eyes and stared stupidly at
the man for a couple of seconds. Suddenly her
face changed. She raised herself on her elbow.
All Spike’s theorising that he was witnessing a
commonplace intrigue vanished. The muscles of
her jaw stood out. Her eyes flashed with fury.
“ What are you doing here ? ” she demanded.
“ How dare you enter my room, Mr. Cortley ?”
The man shrugged his shoulders. “ I'd dare a
lot for you, Muriel. I’d”
“ I give you just ten seconds to leave,”
ordered the girl. “If you’re not out of this
house at once, I’ll call for help.”
Cortley smiled. “ Call for help ! That’s
SPOKEN THROUGH THE NOSE.
Miss Potts Point practises for the arrival of the Ameri-
can Fleet.
“ Gee, pop! None of your lemon-face tricks.
Pm going to shake your trunk for three
five-dollar bills, and catch the ark to Manly. ”
pretty good. Who would you call ? Do you
think I’m fool enough to come here without know-
ing how matters stand. There’s nobody within
coo-ee of this place.”
The girl's face clouded for a moment.
“ I suppose you regard yourself as a man,” she
said. “My God ! what a blackguard you are ! ”
subject.
Cortley pulled a chair up to the bedside and
took a seat. “ Now, look here, Muriel,” he said,
“ let’s be friends. You were nice enough to me
when first I came to this house, and I don’t know
why you’ve changed so lately.”
“ I’ll tell you. Because you weren’t able to
keep up your disguise. You appeared at first as
a man, but it wasn't long before you failed to
maintain the illusion. You had to let me know
that you were a scoundrel, and if it hadn’t been
that I have to earn my living here, I’d have taken
good care never to recognise you afterwards. I
know you now for what you are, Dick Cortley.
Now, leave my room.”
“ Not much,” replied Cortley. “ It’s taken me
too much trouble to get here. I told you that I'd
have you yet, Muriel, and I’m going to.”
“ You are not,” retorted the girl, with a deter-
mination that made Spike Heydon gaze on hex
with an admiration he had never felt for a woman
before.
“ My word,” thought Spike, “this is a game
girl, all right. If the worst comes to the worst,
I’ll take a hand in this little job.” He drew
his revolver from his pocket. It was unloaded —-
a useful fact to place before the court in the event
of capture —but it was extremely useful for pur-
poses of bluff. Cortley placed the candle on the
chair and rose.
“ I think I can make you alter your mind,” he
said to the girl. ‘ ‘ You know what Mephistopheles
said in ‘ Faust ’ about the jewels. Look here.”
He touched the spring of a leather box and
held before the girl a diamond star that threw out
lights even to Spike in the passage way and made
his mouth water. The girl took the star from
Cortley, glanced at it contemptuously, then threw
it with all her force in his face. It struck him full
in the eye. With a cry, he covered the injured
feature with his palm.
“ Damn you,” he said, “I’ll fix you for this,
you devil.”
The girl glanced hurriedly at him as he swore.
With a sudden movement she swept out her arm
and overturned the candle. Spike heard a scurry
of bare feet over the floor, the slam of a door, and
the turning of a key. Cortley, blaspheming,
lighted a match. The bed was empty. The
diamond star glittered on the floor. A door at
the far end of the room, which had previously
been open, was shut tight.
“ Come out of there,” cried the man.
As he threw his match to the floor and bat-
tered at the door with his fists Spike slipped in,
reached for the spot where he had seen
the star, and, while the man was still
hammering and blaspheming, was safely
back in the passage with the jewel in his
pocket. From the far side of the other
door came the sound of the girl dragging
some heavy article of furniture against it.
“Do what you like, my lady,”
cried Cortley. “My time’s my own.
I’ll wait here till you’re ready to give
in. Damn you ! I’ll have no mercy
on you now.”
The girl laughed through the panels
of the door.
“ Game girl, that,” thought Spike.
“ I reckon she’s right now. All the
same, I don’t like leaving her here
with that cow. I’m a bit strong my-
self, but he’s the limit.”
For a few seconds Spike stood won-
dering how he could ensure the girl’s
safety and at the same time get away
with his plunder.
At last he laughed softly to himself.
“Me! Fancy, me!” he thought.
He slipped down the stairs, struck a
match, and walked to the telephone
box, closing the door tightly behind
him. He muffled the bell and turned
the handle.
“Central?” he said softly, “Put
me on to the police station. Is that
the police station ? I’m speaking from
the public telephone. I saw two men
climb in the window of Mr. Murdon's
house a few minutes ago, and I fancy
there’s something wrong, eh ? Eh ?
Yes, I think you’d better send a
couple of men around.”
Spike lifted the bag with the trophy, let him-
self out of the side door and started on his journey
to Old Zack's backyard. At the corner he saw
two breathless policemen sprint past. They
were in such haste that they didn’t stop to explain
when he asked them what was the matter.
“ I thought yer never worked with a mate,”
remarked Old Zack, a few days later. “It was
hard luck fur the other bloke. ’ ’
Old Zack didn’t understand.
Neither did Mr. Reginald Cortley, and not one
of the friends he has made in the A Division has
been able to give him any information on the
MILTON MACGREGOR.


NOTE the VICARS* Trade
MarK on every two yards
of VICARS’ TWEED.
THE SAME OLD VICARS’ TWEED !
“Yes, that’s the stuff! I g'rew it; VICARS made it!”
VICARS’ TWEEDS are made in
Australia, manufactured by JOHN
VICARS CO., of all wool, pure
wool, and nothing' but wool.


p
ALES.
TOOHEYS LTD.,
Standard Brewery,
SYDNEY.
Brewers, Bottlers,
Maltsters,
Wine and Spirit
Merchants,
Cordial Manufacturers
AGENTS FOR ...
MURRAY ALE
(BULK and BOTTLE)
AUSTRAL ALE
(BASS)
DOG’S HEAD STOUT
(GUINNESS)
CLUB RUM
NOLET’S EAGLE GIN
BOORD’S OLD TOM
KING’S LIQUEUR
WHISKY
TRY OUR.
STANDARD
BOTTLED
ALE
AND
STOUT
Changing Watch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE night’s as black as the ace of spades,
There ain’t no stars at all ;
And over her bows, in white cascades,
The loose-lipped rollers fall.
She’s sticking her nose right under the seas,
Tossing them clean aboard,
Her scuppers swallowing, all a-wheeze,
The brine that the deep decks hoard.
The look-out’s sheltering up on the bridge—
He’d drown on the fo’c’s’le-head —
And we stand like birds, a-row on a ridge,
A-wdshing ourselves in bed.
Then eight bells chime and it’s “ All hands aft ”
To call the bloomin’ roll,
And curse the ship, from truck to shaft,
When she takes the green seas whole—
Crawling out of your blankets thin,
Watch below, arise !
Creeping out from a tarpaulin,
Watch on deck, so wise.
Under the bridge where the glow-lamps shine,
Musters every one—
All in a dismal sleepy line
Wishing the job was done.
Can’t relieve the man at the wheel
Until the roll is read ;
Stand in the wind that stings like steel—
Can’t turn into bed.
Count us up and tally us off—
We’ve all forgot our names.
I shook mine out when I had the cough,
But I think it was Fitzjames.
I’m the son of a blessed Marmaduke ;
But you needn’t question me,
For my past, to the world, is an open book
Which lies beneath the sea.
When eight bells chime, it’s “ All hands aft ”
And show your lovely face —
Standing up in a nasty draught
Out in a wdndy place.
Watch below, we’re waiting here.
Watch below, you swine !
She’s taking it over, white and clear,
And the watch on deck is mine.
One man missing ? Oh, lug him out !
Pull him out by the leg !
We’re standing under a waterspout
Training to sit and beg.
Sam the Swede is cursing soft
As he keeps her dead and true.
With the spindrift dimming the light aloft,
And the sidelights burning blue.
He’s cursing the man in the trousereens,
In the undress uniform,
That they’re dragging aft and giving beans
For finding his bed too warm.
Keeping the ship on an even keel
And dead on the lumber-line —
And they won’t relieve the man at the wheel
Till the roll-up tallies nine.
Watch below, the last man’s up—•
(Stretch him out, the swab.)
I feel as gay as a drownded p.up—
(Give him one on the nob).
The night’s as thick as a box of smoke,
There ain’t no lunar rays.
The splattering decks are all a-soak
And staggering different ways.
Her funnel’s doing a saraband,
Her masts are semaphores.
And it’s oh, for the life of a steamboat hand
When the holy ocean roars.
“Well, all’s well,” says the brave lookout,
Whenever the big bell chimes
(I’d like to be rich, with a threat of gout,
Ashore, and reading the Times).
Now, don’t forget to report the lights,
And say they’re burning well,
For the old man crawls to the bridge o’ nights,
And a chap can never tell.
Watch on deck, be watchful, oh !
Starboard watch, you swine !
Good-night, I’m snug in my bunk below,
For the watch below is mine.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
A Ghost and a Spook and a
Jim-Jam and a Mere Mortal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ghost, opened out on him with a com-
plaint on my behalf. I hadn’t wanted him
to do it, but he only did it on the principle
of letting loose your big gun when you see the
other fellow fumbling with his rifle. A fool jim-
jam had once visited me when I was sober, and it
had upset my nerves and annoyed me. After
asking a few questions, the Chief Jim-Jam —who
was on,e of the most gentlemanly Horrors I ever
met —said he thought he knew who it was ; it was.
a jim-jam who was not quite right in his alleged
intellect; and was always trying to play off silly
practical jokes when he got a chance. The boss
apologised, and I told him not to mention it, and
promised not to trespass again unless I was in an
advanced state of D.T. He though perhaps it
would be as well, for it was bad for the nerves of
his Horrors. However, he wouldn’t let me go
like that, but entertained me for a while with
some rum sights and gave me some good copy —
some of it humorous and some of it pretty grim.
Oh, yes, I got some good material. They’ve got
all the old gags out there, about living snakes,
and real things being mistaken for jim-jams in our
country, and jim-jams being taken for real things
—like Macbeth’s dagger, and the things they saw
in Rome the night before Julius Csesar was killed.
These feeble jokes seem to amuse the jim-jams
hugely. But the Chief Jim-Jam admitted that, for
some reasons he didn’t go into, about the greatest
start his Horrors ever got was to have a clean,
sober, well-dressed man like me sprung on them
at night.
After last Christmas holidays I was recovering
from meeting up against some bushmen, whose
only use for a poet was' to spend money on him
and make him tight. I’d just settled back com-
fortably to sleep when I woke with a galvanic
start that jolted all my joints and sat me up.
It was standing at the foot of the bed. It was
the usual sexless thing as to the body, and grey
—my jim-jams are never colored. Its shape
GHOSTS are kindly disposed, and their
visits are mostly intended to be “ friendly,”
as Dick Swiveller would have put it.
Anyway, a ghost always needs to be taken quietly;
it’s no use threshing round and getting excited—
you want to take them coolly. I, myself, have
vanquished one that bored me by the simple pro-
cesses of lighting my pipe, taking a drink, and
leaning back for a comfortable smoke. But they
mostly mean well —even those that come to com-
fort you after a jamboree. The latter are not
beautiful spirits ; but, then, beauty is only re-
garded as being film deep in Ghostland, even as
it is regarded as being only skin deep here. I
ought to know, for I’ve been to Ghostland often,
and camped there more than once, and I’ve often
been visited by ghosts and spooks, even in my
sober, practical and dreamy times, to say nothing
of friendly old Horrors that came to keep me
company and see me through a recovery after an
old jamboree. And I’ve often taken a run across
Ghostland into Spookland, in company with a
friendly ghost; and the last time we were there
we made a short excursion into Jim-Jam Land
adjoining, in company with a spook of our
acquaintance. It was a bit ill-advised —not good
form ; we should have sent to sav we were
coming, for I gave some of the jim-jams a great
start. You see, they weren't used to seeing a
sober mortal in their country —or, indeed, in any
other. The Chief Jim-Jam was beginning to
remonstrate mildly when my friend, the
STREET RULES.
ENRAGED SECOND: “ L'blitne, what yer want ter kick him for? Yer was winnin'
aead easy."
PRINCIPAL (apologetically): “ O, force o' ’ abit , Jerry—force o' ’ abit."
suggested a frog upright, or some tailless reptile,
with a neck about 3ft. long, and the head of a
prehistoric creature, wide and flat, all mouth,
with a suggestion of a grin hovering vaguely in
front of its face. There was also a suggestion as
of hands in its pockets, after the manner of a
clown in a circus; but, of course, no pockets were
there. It was, altogether, a jim-jam, or spook of
the Impressionist School ; and, as I looked, the
grin, or smile, was decidedly suggestive of that
of a good-humored, good-natured little mild man
with dimples and few brains. But, of course, no
dimples were there. The mouth went so far
round that I couldn’t see the corners. And all
the while it seemed to keep nodding in a mild,
good-humored way as if taking in a joke.
“Turn your head,” I said, “and let me see
what you’re meant for ? ”
I distinctly saw it turn its head, and still its
face zvas towards me.
“Turn the back of your head towards me,” I
said, “andlet me see what the devil you are—
or at least what you’re meant for ! ”
It turned its head again, but there was no back
of its head ; the face was still towards me.
“ Keep still,” I said, “and stop your infernal,
idiotic nodding and grinning, and let me have a
good look at you. ”
It stopped nodding, but I couldn’t get rid of
the strong though smoky suggestion of the grin
of the little man aforesaid. I studied it awhile,
and then the thing dawned on me.
It was meant for every living grotesque thing
on the face of the earth, in the air, and in the
water —from man (and woman and baby and boy
and hobble-de-hoy and gawky girl) up (or down)
to a frog, dog, dingo, kangaroo, iguana, native
bear, platypus (according to Norman Lindsay),
bunyip, crocodile, codfish, emu, megatherium,
iguanadon, ichthyosaurus, and all the prehistoric
animals, real, imaginary and humorous, that I’d
heard of, or seen pictures of. And it embodied
something of all the jim-jams I’d known.
“Get out of this!” I said. “If I hadn’t
known I’d been drinking lately you’d have given
me a devil of a start.”
It glided out backwards, right through the
closed door, still nodding and grinning idiotically.
I lit the candle, reached for the bottle, had a
drink, and then settled down to sleep again-
leaving the candle alight to discourage the fool
jim-jam from coming and disturbing me again.
I was very much annoyed, for I wanted a good
sleep that night in order to be able to finish a
moral poem in the morning. If. I must
entertain spooks and jim-jams and friends, I d
like them to have some sense and be one thing at
a time, and come when I’m in a fit state to
receive them.
I sent a message to my friend, the ghost, and
he’ll send it to his friend, the spook, who’ll in-
form the Head Jim-Jam, so I reckon that idiotic
jim-jam will have a warm time, dhe hollow re-
served for the lost Souls is just over the border (a
precipice) of Jim-Jam Land, and the lost souls
and the devils who look after them like nothing
better than a chance to play with a weak-minded
Horror from Jim-Jam Land for a while.
I’m going to write some more about those
places when I get time.
HENRY LAWSON.
Belle of Waterloo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL the Push and Beauties, too,
Take a pride in Lady Sue,
She’s the pet of destinee
At the Pickle Factoree.
Were the gods more kind than wise
When they gave her violet eyes,
Smoothed her cheeks with heifer’s milk,
Spun her hair of spider-silk ?
With a box to sit upon,
Pasting bottle-labels on,
All unconscious of its gyve,
Sings her soul from eight to five.
Fate ordains her weekly treat
Sat’day nights in Regent-street;
She would rather die than miss
All the homage and the bliss.
Arm in arm with Cobber Liz,
Every laggard stops to quiz ;
How did such bewitching grace
Bloom in this unlovely place ?
Never did a pair of shoes
Trail such streaming bows as Sue’s,
Never was a skirt so white,
So be-ribboned with delight !
“ Wotto, Piggy ! ” “Hi there, Tit ! ’
“ Don’t she put on dog er bit ? ”
“ Come surf-bavin’ Sundee, Sue,
Me ’n’ Mick, ’n’ Liz ’n’ you ? ”
‘ ‘ Git yer ’ead read ! Bless yer ’art,
Sue’s no Jesson’s Village tart !
Speak t’cher equals ; likes ov yous
Orter drowned therselfs in boose ! ”
Arm in arm up Regent-street
Ev’ry Sat’day night’s a treat. .. .
“Ain’t it gran’, ther crowd ’n’ lights ;
I jest luv it, Sat’d’y nights ! ”
Life’s not always smooth and sweet,
Even in Macquarie-street ;
Fate is kind to Lady Sue —
She is Belle of Waterloo.
N.S. \V.
W. M. WHITNEY.


■
‘ .
'
.
I
mmmmm
wl^immiSgxmA
iiilft I % ifi
’' ■ /
yf
srvs $ *
k •«» I > , V J‘ X J. 1 ,
. .
vV ".. .5 •., ■, - -A-"v' f ' ' - ' *• ■'
t ; UN
v m
S<r?
:
V
:
r -/Vy / -*• ■ ’ • ■
At
:
<
!
»
A
i
Ute
v w,
m
I
>*
in
SUNSHINE
D
H. V. McKAY
Manufacturer ,
Sunshine Harvester Works,
Write for Illustrated Catalogue LJO of Binders, Mowers, Drills, Ploughs, Cultivators, Horse Works,
Chaffcutters, Gates, Trucks, Bag Loaders, and ALL FARM IMPLEMENTS.
SUNSHINE.
Head Office and Works: Sunshine.
Melbourne Show Rooms: 102 Spencer Street.
Sydney Show Rooms: 42 Engine Street.
Adelaide Show Rooms: 56 North Terrace.
State Agencies:
SANDOVER & Co., Perth, W.A.
MOTT & BARLOW, Toowoomba, Q,


VICTORIAN RAILWAYS
\
II
K
o
La ke s E/^
w
«W 8
m
m
PS
r
!S1
<* //*
*.V,/ r - ’"fcv f
fe-mi
m
fig
LWlBflrE^
la' : or-N -H^
tiev
|pkIFPALO
(£/LPTT R^H
flof/aloftogg
min
X4L
CP^
... . .... -. k
■jzgm*-
r?
sisfesx
c»
7 .v»C
x&
Q&l2£
/>K IUT
During tbe
(Summer months
/15tH November
till 30tb April in
each year) Special
Facilities are
afforded to
Passengers
visiting The
Seaside,
Gippsland Lakes,
The Mountains,
or The New
Buchan Caves.
Combined Rail and
Coach Excursion TicKets
are also issued.
See BooK Time-table.
For Full
Information.
©
in regard to
Excursions and
Tourists’ Resorts
write to the
General
Passenger (SL
Freight
Agent, Rail-
way Offices,
Spencer Street, or to
the Central Inquiry
Office, Flinders St.,
MELBOURNE.
\°as
Sydney to Melbourne run
CHEAP EXCURSIONS from
MONTHLY throughout the year. See Posters, or inquire at N.S.W. stations.
L. McClelland, Secretary.


V
mm
m %
m
#1
most ex :ellent
ft


The Coming of the Great
£
A
©
V
fc==a
S’
o
NEW
INVERTED Burner
7|6
Complete.
"fa
eic
£
W
c
Extra
Mantles,
Bd.
each.
Sold by all
Storekeepers,
Ironmongers,
Plumbers, etc
Every householder
should ask to see
I this Burner.
k.
w
*
c
The Welsbach Hantles for
upright burners are
Welsbach . 6d.
Sunlight ••• sd.
Gladiator... 4d.
and
V.C 9d.
See that every mantle bears the
Welsbach Trade Mark.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
AUSTRALIANS FOR
AUSTRALIANS.
Because Inverted Incandescent Gas Light under the W.lsbach system is far
superior to and cheaper than electricity.
Because it is the ideal light for the home, all the light spreads downwards
—where it is wanted, leaving the ceilings softly shaded.
Because it is fitted with Welsbach Gas and Air Regulators which do away
with the inequalities of gas pressures, and give a steady light.
Because this new Burner is GUARANTEED to be satisfactory “f ‘®
give more light at less cost than any other inverted burner-122 candle
power for less than 3ft. of gas per hour.
Because this new burner is sold, not at a fancy price, but at the popular
price of 7/6. Complete with Welsbach Inverted Mantle and Globe
as illustrated.
The WelsbaOh Light Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
Sydney, IM.S.W.
-at
Melbourne, Vic.
Brisbane, Q.
Perth, W.A.
Wellington, N.Z
m
Adelaide, S.A.
IrJv
cfi
■w/i\w
A
D
icoq
o
,df. DE «m»
ejx
V/fc
$
*
