

DEWAR S
Distillers
to
By Appointment
H.M.THe King.
WHISKY.
R. Gr. WATKINS rfC CO.,
107 Sent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Miaiug Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. -
Ĥ
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Mather & Platt’s
Electrical Machinery
See Wild Cat Column.
7
Bent
• V- •• •••
Street, Sydney,
ECOB A3F8.1-.
<3#s5 ——
(ailey’sirientJjQtel.
Ħ
\
V
bach.,*
I must have -
ii
MAMS ®
.bacon.
CHUBB’S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
A Paying investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks-Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
alt ,
u
r OF
ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
SSORIES
We make it a point of never being out of anything. We keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Cells and all accessories.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts. Your Orders solicited.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE. STREET -SYDNEY.
H
9
HANSENS
TABLETS
HANSEN’S JUNKET Tablets
WHOLESOME DELICIOXJS JUNKET
is made with these Tablets, and contains in itself the natural digestive principles
which enable it to be taken and ** retained when other foods are rejected.
<(
Restores Health.”
”
I
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS and others.
fif
Assists Nature.
HANSENS
unbe
MALTHOID ROOFING
combines all the qualities
necessary to ensure a
perfect roof.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Besides being easy
handle and simple to
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAK|NC PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T •
Ĥ
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L'"
Locomotive insiders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
IMOMY
Ħ
SIMPLICITY
. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
Warm Carbonic Acid Gas is unpalatable -
HEUDON SPA should be iced.
•sj-uagv
"OO * NIIIOD
The Bulletin
Vol. 30.—N0. 1520.]
[Thursday, April 1, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post ; a Newspaper.


READY SHORTLY.
A BOOK FOR EVERY AUSTRALIAN.
THE COMMONWEALTH YEAR BOOK, NO. 11.
CIVINC THE LATEST STATISTICS AND ALL INFORMATION, WITH MAPS,
DIAGRAMS, etc. About 1150 Pages.
Tbe Minister tor Home Affain The Hon. Hugh Mahon, M.P., has approved of a limited number of this work beino-
sold at the merely nominal price of 3s. 6d., postage Is. 3d. extra. " e ng:
Orders are now being registered, to be posted immediately on Issue.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 71 Cast/ereagh Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For Coughs, colds, sore throats,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidal!)' as is creosote.”
33
a
A. The Larynx or
Or/an of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Winrinipe.
rt- <• Bronchial
Tn* of a dis-
sected Lung.
A Lobe of one
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.^
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDK fey. Agencies in all
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, "London.
The EED PAGE
Poe
The Edgar Allan Poe centenary has pro-
duced a crop of articles in the magazines.
Except The Ccvitxivy account of Poe’s engage-
ment to Mrs. Whitman, none of them throw
any new light on the enigmatic life of the
poet whose “soul was as a star and dwelt
apart in the country of Elijah Pogram and
Jefferson Brick. They show, however, the
advance in Poe’s fame since the date of his
death, when the current opinion, moulded
largely by Rufus Griswold’s ruffianly memoir,
was that—to take merely two instances
according to a popular American encyclo-
paedia, Poe was ‘ i a dissolute fantastic writer
who died at Baltimore in consequence of fits of
intoxication ; and in the London Athenaeum
(1852) : “ The story of Poe’s life was told so
largely and loudly by the daily papers of
America that to attempt to color over its
shames with sympathy or apology is idle.
The poems, with their strange, unwholesome,
unequal vigor speak for themselves. Their
writer, apart from his works, had best be
forgotten.”
Some of the best minds in England—
Rossetti, Tennyson, Swinburne, Elizabeth
Browning—paid tribute to Poe’s genius;
Baudelaire and Mallarme transplanted him
into French literature, where he has since
been a prolific influence ; America is making
amends, and the world shows no signs of
forgetting one of the rarest spirits which
have visited it in modern times.
The son of a Southerner of Celtic origin who
had eloped with and married an English
actress, and died young, of consumption, Edgar
Poe was educated in England and owed little to
America. He was a ‘‘sport ” from the Yankee
stock, an alien in his own land, dowered with
a poetic soul and an analytical intellect of the
keenest description, but surrounded by pur-
veyors of fustian and wooden nutmegs.
He flicked the popular American writers on
the raw, labelled American literature as “a
great perambulating humbug,” and suffered
the consequences—in, his lifetime and after
his death. For nearly thirty years Griswold’s
libel remained the standard biography, and
though many memoirs have appeared in refu-
tation of Griswold, there has been no account
of Poe written in America which shows much
insight into his character, nothing to com-
pare with the essay by his literary affinity—
Baudelaire. In England a very fair biography
was produced by Ingram—but it is far from
the last word/. Doubtless it needs another
affinity, possessed of all the facts, to interpret
aright America’s brightest luminary. They
are proud of him and celebrate his centenary,
but when shall they see his like again ? It
was a wise suggestion of the Autocrat’s that
on the monument at Baltimore there should
be engraved Poe’s own lines :
Ah, dream too bright to last!
Ah, starry "hope that didst arise
But to be overcast!
Chivers!
One out of the multitude of futile minor
bards of America in the early part of last
century will be long remembered in associa-
tion with Poe. Dr. Thomas Holley Chivers
is enshrined in Bayard Taylor’s Diversions of
the Echo Club, and some time ago Professor
Woodberry printed a number of letters
which had passed' between Poe and Chivers.
The latter claimed that Poe had borrowed
the idea of “ The Raven ” from a poem of
his— “ Uranothen,” arid the measure from
another—“To Allegra Florence in Heaven,”
of which the following is a fragment :
As an egg, when broken, never can be mended but
must ever
Be the‘same crushed egg for ever, so shall this
dark heart of mine.
Which though broken still is breaking, and shah
never more cease aching
For the sleep which has no waking—for the sleep
that now is thine ! . >
The claim was amply disproved. As a matter
of fact, Chivers was working on parallel
lines with Poe. He had soaked in Coleridge
and Shelley, and had been fascinated by the
refrain, which he utilised in a manner
similar to Poe’s
The night is serene with pleasure—
Balmy the air,
For the moon makes the-icy azure
Argently clear;.
And the stars with their music make measure
lo mine down here—
.. _ .My song down here—
My beautiful song down here
—which is the kind of thing that nearly
ruined Henry Kendall. The last quotation
%f°\ Na coochee, or the Beautiful Star, and
Other Poems. Chivers also published Facets
oj Diamond, Eonchs of Ruby, and three other
volumes —all excessively scarce even in
bayard Taylor’s time. In the Echo Club he
extracts from one of them this gem :
Like cataracts of adamant, uplifted into moun-
tains,
Making oceans metropolitan, for the splendor of
the dawn !
And here is a “ ruby ” from the Eonchs :
In the music of the morns,
Blown through the Conchimarian horns,
Down the dark vistas of the reboantic Noras,
-Lo the Genius of Eternity,
Crying : “Come to me ! Come to me !”
But the Koh-i-noor is “Rosalie Lee,” the
reductio ad absurdum of jewellery work in
verse :
Many mellow Cydonian suckets,
Sweet apples, anthosmial, divine,
irom the ruby-rimmed beryline buckets,
Star-gemmed, lily-shaped, hyali ne ;
Like the sweet, golden goblet found growing
On the wild, emerald cucumber tree,
.Rich, brilliant, like chrysoprase glowing
Was my beautiful Rosalie Lee !
Gosse, in the February Contemporary ,
claims for Poe that he was the discoverer and
founder of symbolism. This is not correct.
Abbi Dabbi, ‘ ‘ poet to his clan in the dim
red dawn of man,” was the first symbolist.
27ie Love Sonnets of a Car Conductor (Paul
Elder and Co., U.S.A.) are some more of Wal-
lace Irwin s fooling in American slang for the
amusement of his countrymen. The ignorant
outsider will find the symbolism a little
obscure, but the meaning glimmers through
now and then, as in Sonnet XXII., written
when the conductor was about to marry
Methinks I’m tagged to join the Worry Club,
rr ?^ ase fleeting rhino through the gloom,
lo bag the boodle, trap the wild mazume
And scratch for corn when Pansy hollers “Grub !”
They say I’ll turn aS sickly as a chub
When on the First, with dull and deadly boom,
I he Rent comes round and walks into the room,
Remarking, “Peel or else file out, vou scrub ! ”
But when your arms are full of girfand fluff,
You hide your nerve behind a yard of grin ;
You’d spit into a wild cat’s face, or bluff
A flock of dragons with a safety pin.
Life s <i slow skate, but Love’s the dopey glim
J?hafc puts a brewery horse in racing trim.
The new English Review , published by
Duckworth and Co. at 2s. 6d. monthly, is
more of a magazine than a review, solid but
decidedly attractive. There are short stories,
a serial in large instalments, notes on poli-
tics, literature, etc. The December number
contains a poem by Thomas Hardy; in
the January number is a hitherto unpub-
lished ballad by Rossetti, and there are
poems by Yeats, Hauptmann and others
in the February number. “ Some Reminis-
cences, by Joseph Conrad, are rather
different to the prattle of the ordinary
reminiscencer; and “ Tono-Bungay,” the
serial by Wells, introduces a medicine man
who is much more life-like than Locke’s
Clem Sypher. The first chapter touches us
nearly.:
“They say that Lord Tweedums is to go to
Canada.” [Some servants of a great house in
Kent are gossiping.]
“Isn’t he,” said my mother, “ the Earl of. Slum-
gold s cousin ? ”
“The same, ma’am,” said Mrs. Mackridge.
“They say he was extremely popular in New
South Wales. They looked up to him greatly.”
“’ls predecessor,” said Rabbits, “got into
trouble at Sydney. ’E came to Templemorton
after e came back, and I remember them talking
lm over after ’e’d gone again.”
“Haw?” said Mrs. Mackridge, interrogatively.
“ ’ls fuss was quotin’ poetry, ma’am. ’E said—
what was it ’e said— ‘ They lef’ their country for
their country’s good,’ which in some way was took
to remind them of their being originally convic’s,
though now reformed. Every one I ’eard speak
agreed it was takless of ’im.”
Thus are Beauchamp's Birthstains passed
on.
Waste
Before the conclusion of Tono-Bungay is
reached in the English Review , the ' book
itself arrives. It is a better Kipp's ‘ y and the
best thing in novel form that H. G. Wells
has yet,done. Few more interesting charac
ters than Edward Ponderevo and his wife,
and no more striking picture of modern com-
mercial life, are to be found in recent fiction.
The little garrulous chemist in a small pro-
vincial town, whose ideas are far too big for
his slow, conservative neighbors, who 'fails
there and moves to London, where, on the
strength of a nostrum, “ Tono-Bungay,” he
swells into a great company-promoter, and
keeps on swelling until he bursts, is human
and/amusing; not a type, though his career
is typical enough. His wife is a humorist of
a novel kind.
Ihe story is told by George Ponderevo,
son of a housekeeper at Bladesover House,
where he lived as a boy and got an under-
standing.of the structure of English Society
from underneath, and learnt that every-
one is born into a definite place in
a delicately graded series. He leaves
Bladesover in disgrace and is sent to a
relative, Nicodemus Frapp, a baker—one
of the British Good Hard-Working Men,
who make it a point of honor to rise at dawn
and then laboriously muddle about; a
“crushed by-product of Bladesover magnifi-
cence.” George runs away from the dirt and
piety of the uncle Frapp circle, and is then
apprenticed to his uncle Edward, the chemist.
He is happy there with his delightful aunt
and his scientific studies; but he is carried
in the wake of his uncle when the boom
begins, a half-hearted participator in the
swindle, and drops science, until wealth
brings leisure, and he devotes himself to aero-
nautics and the construction of destroyers.
There are three love affairs : first with the
Sex in the shape of an ordinary girl who does
not love him. By persistence he marries
her, and brings unhappiness to her 'and
himself. Then he falls in love with
the Flesh —an episode which results in
divorce. Later he meets the Honorable
Beatrice Normandy, whom he knew as a child
at Bladesover, and romantic love begins.
She loves him, but is too utterly spoilt by
the life of idle opulence in which she had grown
up to give herself to him, broken as he was
after the boom had burst. In his bitterness,
when she leaves him, he reviews his career
and sees the futility of the bustling life
about him, the enormous forces running to
waste, “a country hectic with a wasting,
aimless fever of trade and money-making
and pleasure-seeking.” .Referring to his
book, he says, “I have called it Tono-
Bungay, but I had far better have
called it Waste.” One of his adven-
tures had been a voyage to the coast of
Africa to steal some mysterious quap, full of
radio-active matter of immense commercial
value, and it seemed to him that radio-
activity is a real disease of matter, and a con-
tagious disease. This begets a grotesque
fancy that a possible end of the “ strange
by-play of matter that we call human life ”
—is atomic decay, a diy-rotting and dispersal
of all our world. One wonders whether it is
H. G. Wells or George Ponderevo speaking,
when, after the death of his uncle, George
takes a walk in the night, and muSes :
“My mind swayed back to the ancient
beliefs and fears of our race. My doubts
and disbeliefs slipped from me like a loosely -
fitting garment. I wondered quite simply
what dogs bayed about the path of that
other walker in the darkness, what shapes,
what lights, it might be, loomed about him
as he went his w r ay from our last encounter
on earth—along the paths that are real and
the way that endures for ever ? ”
So, in sight of cruelly wasteful Life, disin-
tegrating social forces, and a possible dis-
persal of the visible universe, there shines
through the inirk a Permanent Way,
leading—— ?
W
It is a powerful book, a vehicle for much
of Wells’ caustic criticism of life ; and, at the
same time, carrying more of Wells’ per-
sonality than usual. In most of his romances
the author stands aloof from the characters.
They are specimens picked up at random
and shown to us, as through a micro-
scope, with the pin stuck through them,
while he comments dispassionately on their
funny little heart-beats and contortions in
that awkward position. In this book there
is strong personal feeling, rising to tragic
intensity; there is humor, sincerity and
insight, which make it a great work.
The minor characters are well drawn—
especially a bohemian monumental mason,
who made the discovery that there’s no sich
person as Mrs. Grundy—Grundy’s a man.
Wasters
From the fiction of Wells, whose imaginary
millionaire company-promoter lost his little
head, blew himself out too far, and went
bung, we drop to the cold facts of Charles
Edward Russell in Lawless Wealth (per Geo.
Robertson and Co.), where the millionaires
are as plentiful as mushrooms, and don’t lose
their heads, and don’t all go bung. In New
York, ho says, “ with pride and awe' we
count one man whose wealth is reputed to
be one thousand million dollars, five men
whose wealth is estimated at more than
three hundred million dollars each, ten at
one hundred millions each, and four thou-
sand at one million or more each.’’ Stu-
pendous, isn’t it ? In New York there are
“10,000 persons that are rich,. 500,000 that
are well-to-do, 1,500,000 that are poor,
2,000,000 that are very poor. ’ ’ Staggering and
awful, isn t it l remember, these figures
are for New York only. Wealth cheek-by-jowl
with Want, the stately palaces not far from
the acres of teeming hovels, and here is shown
—as has been often shown already, and can-
not be shown too often until the evil ends—
that one is the necessary complement of the
other. Russell explains how the Agreeable
Formula for making something out of
nothing, or rather the Formula for Getting
Rich by levying tribute on the public, was ap-
plied by Jay Gould, by Yerkes, and others so
successfully. “Rotten business and rotten
politics—the two are invariably mingled in
these triumphs.” When George Ponderevo,
in Tono-Bungay, as a boy, heard his uncle talk
of cornering a necessary drug like quinine,
he thought that anyone who did such a thing
would'certainly go to jail; "but later on he
knew that the cornerer would be more likely
to go to the House of Lords. In America
it would be a step on his way to millionaire-
dom. There are thousands at that and other
methods of robbing, the public, thousands of
social wasters, on with whom
Captain Kidd was a benevolent and worthy
and respectable gentleman. Russell did his
muck-raking to good purpose, and tells in
lively style of the amazing way in which the
fortunes are piled up, and the unscrupulous
methods adopted to increase or preserve
them. Lawless Wealth reads like a romance
—the brutal reality seems too preposterous
to be real.
Two Australians
Louis Becke has given us scattered
memories of his early life in the mayiy
volumes already published, but in The
Adventures of Louis Blake ( T. Werner
Laurie) lie prints, with thin disguise, the
first part of his autobiography, Louis
Blake’s career begins at Port Macquarie,
where Becke was born ; he went to Port-
street (Sydney) school, where lie contracted
a stutter and a hatred of music ; then to New-
castle, and in a rotten old tub to California.
Adventures came in plenty when fairly
launched from ’Frisco on his own account.
Amongst other things, Louis'.Blake engaged
in the Kanaka labor trade, as Becke had
done, and met the redoubtable Bully Hayes,
who does not, however, figure Very largely
in this book. It is a good yarn, told in a
quiet, attractive style, and" is well worth
reading.
When W. G-. Henderson’s volume of short
stories, Midnight's Daughter, was noticed
some time ago, this Page opined that he
might conceivably turn out a good Austra-
lian novel. His long story, just published,
Norah Conough (Geo. Robertson and Co.), is
not a bad one. It has many good points,
but it is not in the higher ranks of fiction.
The time is recent— “ There are no bush-
rangers now,” said old Mr. Conough, “only
bank directors.” There’s a jolly good fight
to begin with, and Donald’s wooing of Norah
on horseback is done in gallant fashion. The
course of true love, in their case, is interfered
with by extraordinary domestic complica-
tions, but it overcomes them happily :
11 Son,” said the doctor [to Donald.]
The fence shook as a heavy hand catne down
upOn it.
- ”I d make him the best, judge of sheep in New
South Wales,” exclaimed the proud father.
That’s good Australian. The bush and bush-
men all through are the real thing; but in
passing from the short story to the novel
the author has not yet- found his true stride.
His future work will be watched with
interest.
—— ♦- 1
Art and Architecture (Jany.-Feby.) contains
articles by D. H. Souter on Miss Florence
Rod way’s drawings, the designing of the Federal
city, and the students’work at the Sydney Art
School.
Oppenheini’s latest— The Long Arm—repeats a
title used by Mary Wilkins for a detective story
in Chapiiian’s Magazine years ago. “The long
arm of coincidence ” is credited to Haddon
Chambers’ “Captain Swift,” but looks older.
Does anyone know if it had an. earlier origin ?
THE DEAD FAITH.
She made a little shadow-hidden-grave
The day faith died ;
Therein she laid it, heard the clod’s-sick fall,
And smiled aside—
“If less I ask,” tear-blind, she mocked, “I may
Be less denied,”
She set a rose to blossom in her hair
The day Faith died— : ■—
“blow glad,” she said, “and free at last, I go,
And life is wide.”
But through long nights she stared into the dark,
And knew she lied.
I ANNIE H. Lea (in “ Gunter's ”).
ON YOUR ACCOUNT I SHALL NOT DIE.
(From the Irish.)
O woman, shapely as the swan.
On your account I shall not die :
The men you’ve slain were trivial men,
Not such as l!
W ell shaped the breasts and smooth the skin,
111© cheeks ;ire fair, the tresses free !
And yet I shall not come to death,
God over me !
Those even brows, that hair like gold,
I hose languorous tones, that virgin way,
And flowing limbs and rounded heel
Slight men betray ! .
Thy spirit keen through radiant mien,
Thy shining throat and smiling eye,—
Thy little palm and side like foam !
I cannot die ! . -
O woman, shapely as the svvan,
In a cunning house hard-reared was I,
And so, white breast and well-shaped palm,
I shall not die.
Padraic Colum (in “ The Nation").


it
(LCI&
'67*i
l,
'7l
7? t
Oa
oa
Q
,o
as
17.
W On
L
c ?)00 e
m
; --
%
flg
A ' S 32
aQ
AISTHOJT^^/^ORDERNS’^^,
”" V ' c^amou^/art /ri&-
V O O
VmtfJ-:
3b
A'/
<2O
-
Soft F
dO
»
5l
161
m
■(TP
Mm
a
m
L
xO
:■ ' •;»
11k
160
/
DO
V-,.
<3
Miyumms'
H I l
762
forDf
?“<o_q
6
ft#
'amvusJprtorict) i 64
163
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ (
WINTER FASHION
PORTFOLIO
PRESENTS illustrations of the latest modes for
the Season, embracing Millinery Models,
Elegant Costumes, Novelties in Blouses and
J Skirts, Smart Footwear, Ladies’ Dainty
Lingerie, Corsets, Sunshades, and Fashionable Finery for
the Fair.
We have conclusively proved to a considerable
section of smartly-dressed Sydney folks that our Ready-to-
Wear Costume Department can meet all demands for the
very latest Fashions, whether it be for a Reception Dress,
an Evening Gown, or a Motor Coat. Our enormous
assortment makes it' an easy matter to satisfy the require-
ments of almost every figure, and, where necessary, we
effect alterations free of charge. The sketches and
photographs accurately depict our actual stock; therefore
customers selecting goods from the Fashion Book pages
are not likely to be disappointed.
WRITE FOR A COPY.
POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION. (
DESCRIPTION OF
.. HATS ..
No. 172 —Ottoman Silk Hat, trimmed Roses and
Ostrich Feather, lined Velvet, 425.
No. 32—Velvet Hat, trimmed Rosettes of Ribbon,
smart Quill, Satin Underbrim, 275. 6d.
No. 40 —Satin Hat, trimmed Flowers and Fancy
Wings, 30s.
No. 160—Straw Hat, trimmed Silk and Coque
Mount, 15s. 6d.
No. 161 —Straw Toreador Hat, trimmed large Ribbon
Rosette and Straw Cabochons, 14s. 6d.
No. 162 —Straw or Silk Hat, trimmed Silk, 12s. 6d.
No, 163 —Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Swathe of Silk
and Quills, 9s. lid.
No. 164 —Straw Toque, trimmed Ribbons, Velvet and
Quill, 7s. lid.
We are Family Drapers, Complete House Furnishers,
Manufacturing Jewellers, and Universal Providers, and our
enormous Store, with its immense stock of the World's
Choicest Commodities, offers attractions not to he found
elsewhere. The goods are fresher, the assortment greater,
and the prices lower than at any other store.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Ĥ
AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON S Co .Ltd.,
Sydney’s Leading Skin Salesmen.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd. J
S Y TD IST E Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW and MATSUPTAT sttttjss
to weighing 7 classin?and b disDos Staff f Wf e *^ ient EXPERTS, who "pay special attention
Plfcention l T r-n i*, v° b^ st advanta S' e - Account Sales rendered prompilv.
•wSSSTfJiJSSSS w?f,t t„i?o”T P pCZ HBAT • f » f ™ *
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape « BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Torn Him Oat*
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover
All these are 9N ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Dancing Without An
Instructor. Absolutely
the Best Guide to the
Ballroom ; gives all the
latest round and square
dances ; correct positions
of feet shown by illustra-
tions, 1/3. “ M.C. Cards,”
4d. each, 3/- doz. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. Ne w
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer. 1 /-.
{3P“ AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
m
A
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2'-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tiib Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
<3T.
o
r\
Dread of Indigestion
drives many men and women to a mistaken dietary regime,
and—-ohrome dyspepsia. It is the greatest mistake in the world!
Anybody who knows the supreme corrective value of Cockle’s Pills
can enjoy all the rational pleasures of the table with impunity. Cockle’s
Pills thoroughly purify, regulate, and strengthen the digestive system
They ensure natural functional activity. Physicians have recognised
this for the last century.
c
Q
KL
E
PI LLS
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO > 3DEF3T COMPETITION - .
WINES 2716 Best Brands only °f SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CH TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS. IL®
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
I
TMU*
CORStTS
ever created.
_ Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal nf
Public Approval, and render other corsetf
ordinary and antiquated. They are wornbvim
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe'
and have been hailed by the Leading FasE
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, fnd most
elegant corsets extant. ost
Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air
coreets 7 aie outlast tw ° ordinary
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.'
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Plinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
V » » Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House, *
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
Ħ
H
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDf
MAGNESIA
Ĥ
Ħ
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Fiill P a rtieula r s Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
C limate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere m Australia.
Executive Building's. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director,
ney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
SIX MONTHS UNFIT
FOR WORK.
After Effects of Influenza.
There is no better equipment for life than a
stock of such information as a reporter gleaned
from Mr. Henry Adolphus Adams, cabinetmaker,
of 16 Burton Street, Camperdown, because it can
be so readily turned to one’s own account if cir-
cumstances require. Mr. Adams said, “Fifteen
years from date I was a painter, but did not
contract the trouble so peculiar to that trade,
namely, colic; but I got something just as bad
though, about the time I speak of.”
“What was that ? ” inquired the pressman.
“Influenza,” was the response, “and when a
man gets a proper attack of that complaint he
knows about it,” said Mr. Adams, with emphasis.
“ I was so ill that my doctor would not allow me
anything but milk food, so vou may depend I
did not get very fat on that. For six solid months
I was laid up, utterly unfit for work, and not able
to get about at all. How much weight I lust
goodness knows, but a great amount at all events,
for their was little left of me but skin and bone.
I was down to the lowest possible ebb, and felt
like a helpless mortal, drifting out slowly, but
surely, upon the tide of adversity that had so
ruthlessly set in against me. No medicine that
had as yet been administered was capable of
stemming the adverse current, and it seemed
that I might as well give up the fight for life and
consign myself resignedly to the merciless fate
that yawned before me. My appetite was gone
I could not sleep, excepting in short stages that
had norefreshingmfluence upon me, and I had such
severe aching sensations in all parts of my body
that I could not lie anyway with the least degree
of comfort. In my head the dull, depressing pains
almost racked my brain. They were too severe
to enable me to spend a few hours reading, even
if 1 could have settled my mind to do so, which I
doubt; and there were many signs at hand that
my liver was thoroughly upset. My tongue, for
one thing, was completely overlain with a white
coating ; the taste in my mouth was like gall, and
the pains across the kidneys were so bad that I
could hardly bend my back, added to which my
shoulder blades had pains under them too.
Taken altogether, there was little of me left but
aches and pains, and what I would have done
without Clements Tonic I do not know.”
“ That was the medicine which cured you, I
believe?”
“Nothing else but Clements Tonic saved me, I
U lt was touch-and-go with me
when I started on it, for I was almost too feeble
to stand. My nerves had gone. Any noise set
me all of a shake, especially if it came to my ears
abruptly, and I had in my excessive weakness
contracted the habit of worrying more than I had
ever done in my life. But what a lucky stroke to
think of Clements Tonic after ail the medicine I
had taken for no result! And it would be very
ungrateful of me if X did not hand down my ex-
perience of that remedy for my fellow citizens,
as I am quite convinced it is a veritable boon
to mankind. As a strength-producing agent it
certainly is far ahead of any remedy I know of,
and for pulling together one’s shattered nerves,
it cannot be excelled. Clements Tonic applied in
my case like a strong man leading a helpless,
hopeless wreck of humanity away from certain
danger it accomplished an act of revivification,
and to my last day on earth I shall be thankful.’
bo far as putting to rights my digestive organs
was concerned, Clements Tonic was equally
effective, all the old troubles disappearing as if
wafted away by the magician’s wand, and I did
not leave off taking it till a thorough recovery was
firmly established.”
“Have you had any further experience with
Clements Tonic?”
“I have heard of numerous cases it has cured,
but I can speak of its value from another point of
view myself. It is a reliable remedy for neuralgia
for some time ago I had a bad attack and Clements
Tonic gave me relief very speedily. Yes, there is
nothing I think so highly of as Clements Tonic,
and I don’t mind you publishing every syllable
I’ve uttered, in any way it suits you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, HENRY ADOLPHUS ADAMS, of 16 Burton Street
Gamperdown, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Gamperdown, this twentv-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me, rea
9]
C. S. MALLETT, J.P.


wm
There’s nothing so
had for a cough
as coughing.
There’s noth-
' ing so good
for a cough
as Ayer’s
Cherry Pec-
toral.
When you
have a genu-
ine cold or a
hard cough,
or when there
is inflam ma-
mation in the throat or lungs, then
you need
Mger’s
'Gherrn Pectoral
It is a carefully prepared, accurately
compounded medicine for all diseases
of the throat and lungs. It contains
strong and active ingredients, such as
are extensively prescribed by the medi-
cal profession. It is the oldest, strong-
est, and best medicine for coughs and
colds you can possibly buy.
Accept no cheap and worthless sub-
stitute. Be sure you get Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It contains no narcotic or
poison of any kind.
prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass., U. S. A,
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
f
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anj one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade M£AD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and OelSverod
* ree to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
\jUjff easily made. Write i*. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Speolal Offer
on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., v,„.wo LIVERPOOL
Halted mil**
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horllck’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples: 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
LOVELY WOMAN!
is the Name of our FREE BOOK
which tells
thin women
how they
may in-
crease their
weight and
develop arj
i m m ature
bust. It
tells how
thin people
are de-
veloped to
normal.
[3
2 3
wr 1
TO
DR. FALLIERE
“FLESH-FOOD” I
is a pure, medicated, scientific bust
developer and flesh builder. Harmless
and efficacious. In average oases
weight can be increased five pounds a
week, and inches are rapidly added to
your measurements. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial sample and free book, or
call if convenient. Hours, 9a.m. tosp.m.
FALLIERE
“FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdnev.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
BONNINCIWS WILL ANSWER YES
$
4-
60NN«.N07.°
M 055
IRISH
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 (a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Goughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
Bonninciws
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
<r>
a oh h«
iß , sH„. ;^r
H
Ĥ
Here
is the Huh
of Many Merits,
so called because it embodies in one shell
a high gear for the level, a low gear for the
hill, a free wheel on both gears, and a brake of
absolute efficiency. It was the first hub to demonstrate
the practicability of such a combination, and is to-day the
only one that has successfully and consistently accom-
plished all that has been claimed for it. It is known all over the
world as the
Eadie Two-speed Coaster
and is now manufactured at the famous B.S.A. Works. You know what that
means, you know the world-wide reputation of B.S.A. Goods. If you are an expert
cyclist you are pretty sure to be riding a B.S.A. Bicycle yourself and know the
value of the B.S.A. Trade Mark.
Any dealer can fit the Eadie Two-speed Coaster to your bicycle. If you have any
difficult}, or would like particulars of these and other B.S.A. goods, write for the
latest B.S.A. Handbook (just out) to
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
CHEAPSINTERESTINC BOOKS
\ ' '
R. J. SMITH & CO., M Hunter Street, Sydney,
A.J.SMITH&C a
Vaudeville Jokers, Nos. 1,2 &3.
We cannot in Inis small space tell you all about the great collection of first-class
material that the Vaudeville Jokers contain. They are the only publications of
their particular kind—a guideand instructor for cither amateurs or professional*.
If interested in Concerts, Minstrel Shows, Vaudeville Entertainments or even-
ing Smoke-Ohs, you will find that the Vaudeville Jokers contain just the material
you have been looking for. and a glance at the partial contents will convince you that
our claim is correct. The 100 pages of each book are literally crammed with jokes,
gags, funny stories, all up-to-date, and guaranteed to make the most miserable man
merry and the mournful happy. The new jokes are new and the funny steries are
funny, while the laughable absurdities will make you forget all the miseries of the
past, present and bleach those to come. You will see that it is not written by any one
man, but is a fine collection of the best efforts of all the recognised authors of stage
material. We guarantee that if you get these three books, you would not take for
them ten times the amount they orginally cost you, and there is so much in these
Jokers that they will last you many months—funny bits, good gaga, monologues,
sketches, jokes, funny stories, stump speeches, the art of facial make-gp, funnyisms
cross-fire conversations, witty sayings, mottoes, toasts, dialect sayings, how to get
up a minstrel show, epitaphs, crazyisms and conundrums. BEFORE WE PART, let
us impress upon you that we cannot, for the want of space, begin to mention all the
excellent contents of the Vaudeville Jokers, of which there are three different
numbers (Nos. 1, 2 & 3.) Each book is entirely different to each of the other tw*
numbers ; there is no time like the present, so send for them to-day. Vaudeville Jokers,
No. 1, 2 or 3, sent to any address
on receipt of *7d. t or the three
numbers for 1/9 post free.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Morbid Thoughts of a Bilious
—— Philosopher.
A lovely title for a book, isn’t it? However, it is a little book of 100 pages, and
contains just the things yoo haye been looking for—funny stories, funny jokes,
funny sayings, humourous and side-splitting lectures and amusing advices by a
Bilious Philosopher. The MORBID THOUGHTS also contain three pages
of introductory matter, giving minute instructions how to narrate them, which,
if followed, will enable you to become one of the finest monologist in the world,
it also contains information as to how to take to the stage, and how to secure the
exclusive performing rights of any particular Song. If you want to be popular when
out in Society, you must have something funny ** pat” on your tongue to say, and
when you get the boys and girls all laughing—it is a “ sure thing ” that you will get
an invitation to every party. If you are going to take part in an amateur show
that the boys are getting up—this book contains just the funny pieces or mono-
logues that you want. "Morbid Thoughts by a Bilious Philosopher *’ is
honestly worth 2/6, yet we are mailing them at 7d. each, post free— just as an 1
advertisement to make you talk about us. It is the only book of it’s kind, so send
1 V It at once. A j & CO.. I 4 Kuntir Street. Sydney.
A.J.SMITH&C
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter Street, Sydney,
A. J. SMITH & CO., U Hunter Street,'Sydney.
A.J.SMITHBfC a
Magic Cards, Coins and Mystery.
This is a little 100 page volume of valuable hints, secrets and diligent advica
how to become a professional or amateur magician at sight. It is astonishing
the amount of amusement that can be obtained from a few tricks with coins or
cards: even those of the most simple kind that a horse can see through seem to
completely mystify and puzzle the average person. If you doubt our assertion —
try it and see. When you hear your friends say, “She is a popular girl.'* or
* He is a popular boy." you can safely count that there is always some very good
reasons for their popularity : they are either born good talkers, or of a lively dis-
position. or regular jokers—just like the “theatre-actor" jokers—or else they can
perform some kind of tricks for the entertainment of their friends. You must have
noticed that the young lady who plays popular Music is always at all the parties,
and the young man who can play or sing is there too, and so it is with the boy who
can do tricks with coins or cards, you will find that he is always the “Johnny
on the spot." Why—ygu. think he is just the smartest thing “ever happened.**
Some go so far as to say “He would make a great hit on the stage.** YOU can be
the one they are talking about if you like: send for this book and practice in your
room. It would take you but a few
hours to get some of the tricks off.
and you can keep on adding to your
list. This little book shows exactly
HOW to do it, it is also fully illus-
trated, and by studying it care-
fully—you are bound to succeed-
Send for this book at once. 3s we
are only charging 7d. post free,
for it.
A. J. SMITH & CO.
14 HUNTER ST- SYDNEY.
Twelve Practical Lessons on Stage Hypnotism.
Here, indeed, is a book that every young manor woman should have, it-has
100 pages, crammed full of valuable advices, professional hints and short cuts as to
how to successfully demonstrate either in public on the stage, or at home. Every
part of this mysterious art is lucidly described : no cabalistic or foreign terms are
used, and it is made so clear that anybody who can read and is ambitious can become
proficient in the art of HYPNOTISM or MESMERISM. Mesmerists command high
salaries everywhere, and are eagerly sought for by Music Hall managers, and, there-
fore, can obtain long and remunerative engagements. This book also tells all about
Mental Telepathy, showing how you can biologise any person, and while he is
under the spell he will do anything you may wish, no matter how ridiculous it
may be. and he cannot help doing it. It also deals With how to mesmerise, and
thus you can place anybody in a mesmeric sleep, and then be able to do with him
as you like. This secret alone has been sold over and over again for £lOO. This
little book also tells how to make people at a distance think of you—something all
lovers should know. It tells how you can charm those you meet, and make them
love you whether they will or not. It tells how to perform the different
mysteries, and scores of other wonderful things, that we have no room to me n
tion. This book will be sent by mail, post free, to any address on receipt of “7 d.
3
s Mws
Hypnotism
EfACuftO anyone
’0 MAsrtA THt
PRtreSVOUAL ART or <Sr~:% ■ ■
MESMERISM ill
Without a teacher 4ssss
mm
4. J. SMITH & CO.. 14 Hunler Street. Sydney.
/USMITH&C 2
Our honest advice is to get the whole six books, which we will send to you post Tree, for 3/3
and you will really have.£lo worth of enjoyment, fun and education. ——
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14- Hunter Street, Sydney.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Chum.
Once, half in merriment,
Lola and I
Made an experiment
(Heaven knows why !)
Love ! She’d have none of it !
Laughing, said she,
“Just for the fun of it,
Chums let us be.”
I was obedient,
As she decreed ;
Plato’s expedient
Seemed to succeed.
So we were sensible
Mid flowery bowers,
In this ostensible
Chumship of ours.
She was so youthfully,
Joyouslv sweet,
I would have truthfully
Kept it complete—
Held in security,
Loyally still,
Her and her purity
Out of all ill.
Bore the dream scrutiny
Until to-night,
When a swift mutiny
Swept it from sight.
No plea for mercy had
Voice in her sighs—
Eyes such as Circe had
Looked in my eyes :
Eyes ever holding me,
Dear and more dear ;
White arms enfolding me
Drew me too near. . . .
No dream exempted us;
Thus it befel —
Love, who had tempted us,
Tempted too well.
Something is lost to me
Vain to recall;
Not that the cost to me
Matters at all :
Passion defied to-night
Friendship’s whole sum;
Somebody died to-night—
Only my chum !
VICTORIA.
KETTLEDRUM.
Only—You.
I loved for what I thought you were,
And not for what you be—
My Soul was but a voyager
Upon a shallow sea.
It is not well that one should make
His goddess out of clay,
From dreams unreal soon to wake,
And face the real day.
Far better had I loved the Rose-
Sweet-scented, kind, and fond—
Than any Star that lures and glows
In witchery—beyond.
The Star that I, fool, dreamed you’d be,
Is clouded in the blue ;
The bitter knowledge comes to me,
That you are—only you.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
Supernatural.
Although self-praise is said to be
A poor recommendation,
I use this weapon frequently
To glorify our nation.
When Britishers hold forth on sport,
And bring their fistic cracks on,
Of course the obvious retort
Is “Fitz and Peter Jackson.”
When turf’s the theme, I disinter
Old Carbine’s faded glories.
And drop a tear for days that were—
O tempora,! O mores !
When politicians turn their coats
With record-time celerity,
I prove it’s not for catching votes,
But done in all sincerity.
Alas, one topic I eschew,
One spot I fear we’re weak, in,
One vacancy peculiar to
The land of Alfred Deakin.
We boast our scenery and soil,
Our pastures and our dairies.
Our gold and silver, corn and oil,
But oh, we’re short of fairies !
From out the bush no goblin peers,
As in more favored places.
No family apparition sneers
At modern airs and graces,
And to our youth when short of tin
No father’s ghost discourses.
Such things are not included in
Our natural resources.
No spectre finds a happy home.
In mansion or in tavern,
You will not meet a single gnome
Within our darkest cavern.
Upon our Brocken’s shrouded height
No evil spirits revel.
In fact, if what I hear is right,
We’ve nearly lost the Devil.
It is a sad, sad thought ; but still,
It has its compensations.
No Old World sprites may work their will
’Neath Southern constellations.
And so, when you come home from Lodge,
More festive than is proper,
At worst you only have to dodge
A very human copper.
MAORILAND.
TA:WA.


L.IMITEW
/
fy
O
/
▲
c.
&L 1^
SAY
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW
GOOD TASTE
A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of working out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend.
The sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not crack
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Shoyvroom:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474, G.P.0.. Sydney,
Melbourne Showrooms*.
243 COLLINS ST.
Ħ
A LUXURIOUS SHAVE
is assured by using'
THE MAXIM RAZOR
Blades fin., fin., or Jin. deep. Round, Square or Irish Point. I
fcoia under absolute guarantee at
Post Free to any part of Australia.
6/6.
Torrey’s Swing Strop, 2/6.
Lathacreme Shaving Stick, 6d.l
SOLE AGENTS FOR MAXIM RAZOR I—
SUjcLEAN, BROS & RIGG PTY. LTD. (Under direction of Thos. Luxton & Sons),
: _Melbourne, Importers of Hardware and Sporting Goods.
H
Ĥ
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889,
London IBGZ. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH, t
Ħ
7ROTHERHAMS
LON Dors
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
: :
acsa?
I!
■ i
hi
* i
ii'ii
ini
itTS r Cn>i!l£]
.111
Si)
-
tint
m
!:! iifil;;
I
HOTEL
BIETROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manages.
POES NOT UNSTEADY THE NERVES
PERFECTION
THE
TOBACCO
LBCHT and DARK
In Plugs, or Cut Up in Tins, 2ozs. and 4ozs>
USE
WELSBACH
MANTLES
THE THERMOS FLASK
EVERY Squatter, Motorist, Yachtsman, and everyone whose work or pleasure
takes them out into the heat or cold, will find the celebrated THERMOS
FLASK invaluable.
It keeps hot drinks hot for 24 hours and cold drinks cold for days.
Fill it up with a pint of hot tea in the early morning, and when you
feel you would like a drink of hot tea, it is there just as when you poured
it in. Just the same with an iced whisky and soda, or any other cold drink.
Thermos, Invaluable for Infants.
Here, there, everywhere you go a Thermos proves its utility. In the
nursery it is invaluable.
In the park, away from the nursery, Thermos gives hot milk, clean-
fresh —health-giving. No trouble at all to carry.
At eventime or early morn soothing hot liquids always ready. No trouble —
no preparation—if your nurse has a Thermos.
The sick room lacks proper equipment if a Thermos is not to hand.
Workers with hand and brain, from navvy to monarch, use Thermos. Every
and anyone must recognise that Thermos is invaluable, indispensable; on
pleasure bent or on work intent Thermos is invaluable just the same. Depend
on yourself for a cooling drink, a hot drink —Thermos will provide both —a
drink that is fresh and inviting and can be had just when you want it. The
man, or woman, provided with a Thermos Flask waits no one's pleasure only
his or her own.
Makes a splendid gift from one friend to another, or for a wife to give to
her husband.
THERMOS FLASK, nickelled finish, and covered with plain leather, to
hold one pint, sent securely packed and post free for lOs.
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd.
smsydney


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1520.
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 1909.
PltlOß 6d
It may not be generally known that The Bulletin (not to be beaten
yXifcy r l y al advertisers) sent an expedition to the South Pole, made up
fjymostly of members of Its staff, to stop there as long as they liked.
//s „ x A
Here you see the oxillery “ Bully Boy ” with crew
and stores «n board clearin’ the Heads.
( ' —’
Having proceeded as far as lat. 80°
70" 30', the ship got stuck up in the
* ce ’ and the expedition proceeded sou’ west
frozen ears ana „„„ v by sou ’ per s| edge. We got cold feet and
wind for ourn, we ’ d pawned our overcoats to raise the
andgoat Do/ n’ S n° reS ’ explorin ’ tools - etc - The Soudan donkey
4: ry Dog * etc - made ’emselves gen’lly useful.
In lat. 4° 11"
44)4' we met
witb our
first thriller.
The chaplain of
the outfit fell
down one of
them awful crev-
ices, and was about
to be devoured by a
penguin, when he was
snatched as a brand from
the perilous situation with
a boat-hook.
THE POLE AT LAST!
Having eaten up almost
everything in sight, our
last meal consisted of
soup made of the Dry
Dog’s tail. (We gave the
bone of the tail to the dog.; After this there was
nothing to look forward to but penguin, and as we drew
the line at penguin we decided to return home, after
nailing a tasteful Bulletin poster to the magnetic pole.
By means of cornsacks (loaned by the Qovt ) for
managed to get through the long Antarctic night/ P g bags we
> w Ciskv rcnT “ pint ° r 50 of frozen
whisky (corkscrews ain’t no good in
them latitoods), the chaplain was re-
! n ° Ugh to resume tbe march
South’ard Hoe !
The Roarer-borer-Alice in them
parts beggars description, so 1 made
a sketch of it from the business end
of an iceberg.
THE SOUTH POLE. —(By “ Hop's ” Understudy.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclicod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobeaddressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
11 out to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Sper iul TV ot ire.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
true columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or N ervspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded■ without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Jllac.lc and. White.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Bottom, London, H’. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The. Central Hews Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency. 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Dong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Ay ants' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size-SHn. x thin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
NOTICE TO AGENTS.
Agents are notified that, on
account of the Easter Holidays,
THE BULLETIN dated April 8
will be published on Wednesday,
April 7.
tZZeZztfi,
THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 1909.
THAT DREADNOUGHT.
Sydney and Melbourne have leaped wildly on
their joint and several hat in public meeting
assembled, and have expressed great enthusiasm
over the proposal to present Britain with a
Dreadnought. Many, if not most, of the pro-
minent leapers make little disguise of the fact
that they regard this move as a fair substitute for
any comprehensive scheme of Australian defence.
Why they should prefer the Dreadnought idea,
combined with a fearsome prancing at a town-
hall gathering, as a substitute for a sane, efficient
and self-respecting scheme of local defence it is
hard to say. Perhaps it is for the same reason
which makes so many people prefer a “Kelly
Gang” drama to “The Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” and causes them to regard a dog-fight as
better entertainment than the poetry of the Book
of Isaiah, and which makes them look on a pot
of beer with more interest than is aroused in them
by the “Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire ”
—the reason which makes many a little
work-girl spend her money on a red hat
the size of an old velocipede’s front wheel
when her really urgent need is for a pair of thick
boots and a brown skirt. Perhaps it is mere
garishness; perhaps it is mere mental drunk;
perhaps it is just mean, sordid, ill-judged economy.
It is very hard to tell.
* * * *
At all events, let the question be considered
seriously and reduced to figures. The Australian
Commonwealth has, roughly speaking, one-tenth
of the population of the British Isles. Supposing
it supplied, for its own protection, in proportion
to its population, the same share of sea defence
that Britain does, this, roughly speaking, would
be its naval establishment
50 war vessels of all classes.
12,800 seamen.
A whole herd or drove of capable officers.
About 10 admirals.
Sundry ship-building yards, steel works, cannon
foundries, fortified ports, etc.
Brains, a knowledge of naval matters, a habit of naval
organisation, and a general capacity for running the show.
About £3,000,000 per annum in cash.
These estimates deal with the naval question only,
and take no account of the military bill. They
represent what Australia would do if it went
soberly into the sea defence business on the British
scale, without excitement, without fury, without
public meetings, without strange leapings and pos-
turings, without any wild protestations of its desire
and craving to help good old Mother, without
writing excited and ungrammatical letters to the
papers, and wi thou t three frenzied indi vid uals rising
in that sort of high-class drinkery which is called
a club, and offering £lO,OOO each to help along the
good cause. When one considers what our naval
defence would be if, in proportion to population,
we fixed it according to the British standard, the
idea of holding frantic public gatherings over a
scheme for having one ship built in a dockyard at
the other side of the world, and providing neither
men, officers, maintenance, organisation, respon-
sibility, nor brains, looks somewhat paltry. In
fact, it looks more like an attempt to shirk
responsibility and to cover the shirking with
absurd applause and a cloak of bogus enthusiasm
than like genuine imperial patriotism. Further,
it must be remembered that Britain pays its
defence bill out of revenue, while even among the
wildest Jingoes who have arisen in these recent
Australian days of clamor there are quite a
number who want to build that proposed lonesome
ironclad out of loan moneys, and to leave the
infant to pay the account when ho grows up.
They propose to be patriotic at the expense of
posterity, and that isn’t a very fervent kind of
patriotism. Furthermore, if Australia proposes
to do in proportion to population even as well as
Britain does in the matter of defence, it is up to
this country to put up nearly £3,000,000 a year for
military purposes. That is the amount it should
provide, as a mere matter of plain business ; when
it begins to hold “patriotic” assemblages, and to
cheer, and leap on its belltopper with both feet,
and declare its furious resolve to stand by good
old Mother to the bitter end, then it might be
supposed that it meant to provide a trifle extra.
* * * *
The British Government has received in a polite
spirit the casual offers of a ship or two from these
parts. It wouldn’t be good policy on the part of
the British Government to throw clods at any-
body’s enthusiasm. Yet it is more than possible
that the British Government would feel a great
deal better if Australia took hold of its own defence
question in a sane and business-like spirit, and
didn’t whoop, and didn’t make excited offers to
provide Bull with the bare, uninhabited shell of a
warship. Supposing this country realised that
some kind of a crisis was ahead of the empire, and
decided to take a hand in the defence problem,
on the same scale, with due regard to the number of
its inhabitants, that Britain does, it wouldn’t, by
any spasm of subscription or borrowing, merely
raise £2,000,000 for one ship. Rather it would
raise, without subscription, or spasm, or borrow-
ing, about £6,000,000 a year, as a steady job, and
as part of its daily work. It would create arsenals,
gun foundries, ammunition works, ship-building
yards, shore defences, and a serviceable little fleet
of about 50 vessels, together with the men, officers
and organisation to run all these concerns. It
would set to work to build its two transcontinental
railways—to Perth and Port Darwin —in order to
make its country reasonably accessible and de-
fensible. Then it might mention to its father
Bull that it had done w’hat it could to make
Australia safe, and its father Bull would pro-
bably feel grateful. For though Bull in the
aggregate knows little of Australia, and also, in
ordinary times, cares very little about Australia,
yet he is perfectly aware that a dependency which
represents over one-fourth of his Empire can’t be
invaded or occupied or annexed by a foreign
enemy without a loss of prestige to him (Bull)
which would make London totter and shake East
Ham and Brixton and Peckham Rye to their
foundations. And if, in addition, Bull was
assured, in a guarded fashion, that the Australian
fleet would be available to give him a hand in
time of need, provided it could do so without
exposing Australia to any imminent danger, he
would probably regard that assurance as repre-
senting better value than the mere gift of one
ship, without any officers or ship’s crew, or fund
for maintenance and replacement. Britain is
quite as hard-pressed for officers and men as it is
for ships, and the mere promise of a hollow bit of
steel isn’t everything, especially if Bull has
to lend the money with which to pay for the
hollow bit of steel.
# » * *
There are, in the British Isles, something like
42,000.000 inhabitants. Germany, which repre-
sents Britain’s present bugbear, has over 60.000,000
inhabitants, and its population is growing
much faster than that of Britain. If
Australia established a comprehensive sys-
tem of military and naval defence there
would be over 4,000,000 people added to
the population with which Germany would have
to reckon before the British empire went down ;
whereas, if - it simply handed Britain one warship
there would be nothing more for Germany to
reckon with than so many extra pounds of dead
metal. At present Britain loses something like
200,000 annually of its own people through emi-
gration to foreign countries, and in the foreign
countries to which they go these people lose their
British nationality, and their sons lose their
British instincts and learn to be foreigners, and
prepare to shoot at Britain on some future date.
If Australia, instead of going into needless excite-
ment at town-hall meetings, built its two trans-
continental railroads, opened up its waste lands,
and broke up its great land monopolies—including
the great land monopoly of the squatter
who got a big advertisement the other day
by offering £lO,OOO towards the purchase of
a presentation ironclad —it could offer these
British people land on which to settle, and retain
them as British subjects. To preserve 200,000
people annually as defenders of the empire,
instead of. allowing them to be turned into
200,000 possible enemies of the empire, would
represent a yearly reinforcement of 400,000 people,
and would count for more than the presentation
to England of half-a-dozen ironclads, even if the
half-dozen ironclads were bought with our own
money instead of with money borrowed from our
embarrassed progenitor in London. But all
these propositions suffer from one serious draw-
back. They represent hard, serious, continuous
effort. They stand for plain business. They
offer no room for hysterical public meetings, for
shouts and excitement, for eminent capitalists to
rise up after dinner at a club and say they will
give £lO,OOO each, and thus acquire much advt.
and possibly pave their way to a title apiece.
Therefore it is easier, and also a lot more con-
spicuous, to offer Britain a Dreadnought and pass
around the well-worn belltopper for subscriptions
than to take our place among the nations on plain
brown principles, and do our duty to the best of
our ability.
N.S.W. FACTORIES AND WORKS.
Once every year at least, when the State Statisti-
cian issues the “Factories and Works” section
of the Statistical Register, it is up to the people
of N.S.W. to return thanks in a loud voice for the
blessing of Federation, and for the Protection
which came in its train. Certainly it isn’t by any
means such good Protection as it should be ; the
bitter opposition of a gang of fools or scoundrels
who were returned to Parliament, mostly from
N.S.W., to destroy Australian industry in the
importers’ interest, reduced the first tariff very
much below the proper standard of efficiency ;
and, though the second was better, it isn’t nearly
so much better as it should be. Yet, with all defi-
ciencies, the progress of N.S.W. industry of late
has been amazing. A few years back, in 1893
(the year with which the Statist commences his
current table of figures), N.S.W. had 42,057 hands
employed in its manufacturing industries. Now
it has more than twice as many. These 42,057
employees represented in 1893 all that the State
had managed to achieve as the result of about 110
years of toil. There was nothing distinctly pro-
gressive about N.S.W. industries 16 years ago.
The figures wobbled up one year and wobbled
down another, and though on the whole they
wobbled forward a little, there was altogether too
much wobble about them. And it must be re-
membered that even the little progress achieved
up to 1893 was not the result of Freetrade. There
was not one industry which N.S.W, possessed in
those days—one industry, that is, of the kind
which is exposed to foreign competition—which
hadn’t been at one time or another helped along
by Protection surreptitiously granted to it by
some alleged Freetrade Government; the trouble
was that there wasn’t enough Protection, and it
was so surreptitious that no one had much faith
in its durability. Now all that is changed, and
the results which follow are worth a lot of serious
consideration :
N.S.W. Factory Statistics.
Persons Horse- Value
Em- Power of of
ployed. Machinery. Plant.
1893 .. .. .. 42,057 35,203 £4,425,083
1900 60,779 49,599 5,707,640
1907 86, 467 108,257 9,013,772
Increase in 7 years of
Separatism and Par-
tial Protection .. 18,722 14,396 1,282,557
Increase in 7 years of
Federation and Pro-
tection .. .. 25,688 58,658 3,336,132
* * * *
These figures say even more for the new order of
things than they appear to do. For, in the first
place, it must be noted that the seven years from
1893 to 1900 include most of the time when the
short-lived Dibbs Protective tariff was helping
N.S.W. industries along, and all through that
seven years the beer, wine, tobacco, sugar, and
other big N.S.W. trades were heavily protected ;
even the maddest Freetrade Government never
dreamed of Freetrade in beer, or sugar, or things
of that sort. Then the second period includes that
lamentable time when, for a year or two, industry
was almost stationary. The fools,and scoundrels
who had been returned to Parliament to destroy
Australianfactories managed tocut the first Federal
tariff down far below what was expected ; and
moreover there was an interval, until the Federal
elections dissipated the idea, when people really
feared that the next Parliament might give the
anti-Australians a majority, and that, the new
tariff might be destroyed again. Therefore
manufacturers feared to invest their money in
new works, and it was not till the second Federal
election proved George Reid and his crowd to
be the followers of a burst-up superstition that in-
dustry really commenced to move. It was in 1904
that it moved in earnest; out of the 25,688 persons
who had been added to N.S.W.’s industrial army
from the year 1900 up to the end of 1907, no less
than 20,834 were added during the years 1904-5-6-7.
But the progress made can’tbe estimated merely by
the number of employees. They certainly show a
huge increase under Federation and Protection,
but the increase in the power of machinery is far
greater in proportion than the increase in flesh
and blood. That signifies that N.S.W., under
the new order of things, is emerging from the era
of slow, primitive, hand-made industries, and
developing a higher class of machine-made work—
that it is passing from the aboriginal ways of the
semi-Freetrade period into a civilised era, and
that it is leaving industrial savagery behind it.
The values created by it—that is to say, the net
values added in N.S.W. by the processes of manu-
facture to the raw materials used—are now
£14,252,000, against £9,656,000 in the last year
before Federation. This sum is more than the
gross proceeds of agriculture or mining, or of
dairying and forestry and fishing and all the
small industries put together. The gross returns
of the pastoral industry (£18,350,000) are greater,
but the returns from manufactures are increasing,
while those of the pastoral industry are diminish-
ing ; and the manufacturing industry employs
more people, pays better wages, requires less
space, and, above all, it is practically drought-
proof. And if the gross return from N.S.W.
manufactures (£40,018,301) is taken, then these
“secondary” industries about equal all the so-
called “primary” industries put together-
mining, agriculture, sheep, cattle, and all the
rest.
And in another sense N.S.W. is making pro-
gress. A most objectionable section of the com-
munity is disappearing, thanks to the success of
the new regime. In the old days, when the
N.S.W. Cabbage-tree Mob tried to elevate
parochial sentiment to the level of a
virtue or a fine art, and when N.S.W.
supported Governments which surreptitiously pro-
tected its biggest industries, yet denied that they
did it, and preached Freetrade in and out of
season, and when the State pinned its faith to
daily papers which demanded and obtained 50
per cent. Protection for themselves through the
postal regulations, while they declared that Pro-
tection was a creed only fit for the lower animals
—in these days a curious and most unpleasant
class of human being grew up in Sydney. It was
almost entirely a Sydney product, and its typical
representative was the commercial clerk. He was
generally the son of an old bagman person of the
old Cabbage-tree mob persuasion, and he was
mostly in the importing biz. He was a cad and a
bounder, and as a shocking example of the effects
of parochialism and the Cobden superstition there
was no other white human quite like him in the
British empire. He was a Freetrader of the
superior and supercilious variety, and was fully
convinced that N.S.W. was Freetrade, because he
had never read its tariff. If the State tariff was
shown to him he would deny its existence. He
was mostly in favor of black labor. He regarded
Protectionists, manufacturers and the Labor
party as inferior beings, and small dust in the
balance. He thought that trades-unionism should
be suppressed. He hadn't a shred of clean, honest
pride in Australia, or even in his own State, ex-
cept as regards its cricketers and footballers and
a few of its raw products. He called goods made
even in N.S.W. factories “ colonial rubbish,” and
if anyone proved to him in the street that he had,
by treachery or malfeasance, been induced to wear
a coat built out of Sydney-made tweed, this clerk
person would probably have taken it off and
dropped it in the gutter with a shudder, and gone
home in his shirt-sleeves. Yet this dreadful
citizen had, in one sense, a sort of pride in his
own State; if anyone mentioned that anything
good or desirable existed in any other State—
especially in Victoria —he would hold forth wildly,
in his British clothes and his British boots and his
British hat, to the effect that everything in the
other States—especially Victoria —was unutter-
ably vile, while everything in N.S.W. was
as perfect as it could be. But unless roused to
sudden fury by his hatred of the rest of Australia,
he had no good word to say for any part of his
own country save in the way of sport. By reason
of the existence and abundance of this person it
came to pass that, till a few years ago, it was
practically impossible to get a suit of Sydney-
made tweed at any tailor’s shop in those parts of
Sydney where offices predominated and the clerk
and the bagman were most numerous. “ Oh, dear
no; we would never think of keeping it,” said a
King-street tailor to this writer only seven years
ago in response to a demand for Marrickville
tweed. “We have none but imported goods.”
And in the same neighborhood, about the same
time, a demand at a high-class shop for locally-
made boots was met with insult. “ You’ve come
to the wrong place,” said the important cad
behind the counter. “ Surry Hills or Newtown’s
where you should go. We don’t do that class of
business here.” It is pleasing to know that,
with the establishment of Federation, the growth
of Protection, and the consequent increase
in the use of N.S.W.-made goods, that
variety of shopkeeper grows every day more rare,
and the class for which he used to cater doesn’t
bound in public places as it did. It is still
anti-Australian, but it doesn’t shout its anti-
Australianism on the highways as of old. It is
still offensive, but it isn’t so proud of its offensive-
ness as it was. Also, it isn’t nearly so numerous
as it used to be, and the air is cleaner and sweeter
by reason of that fact.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Thys Lande is All Fnlle of Devils.”
Away back in the Middling Ages of European
history there was a famous liar—that is to say,
traveller—by the name of Mandeville. He
added much to the misinformation of the period,
and his maps had evidently been drinking heavily.
Mandeville belonged to that ancient school of
liars —that is to say, travellers—who decorated
the atlas of the period with particulars of the
territories of the Emperor of the Extreme East*
the King of the Remote Seas, the Great Chump
(or possibly Cham) of Tartary, the King of the
Dwarfs, the King of the People whose Heads are
Below their Shoulders, the Queen of the Amazons,
PHESTER JOHN, and such like eminent potentates.
And when even this flow of imagination left great
bare spots on the chart, the old type of liar (or
traveller) just printed, in a fair, clerkly hand,
“ Thys Lande is All Eulle of Devils,” and passed
on. It was on something like this principle that
the early maps of Australia were constructed.
The primitive cartographers put down Sydney and
one or two other places, and then filled up with
“ The Great Stony Desert,” or “ The Great Vic-
torian Desert,” or “The Great Blanlsy Dry
Desert,” and let things go at that. In fact, so
bad was the desert craze that Victoria, now one
of the garden spots of Australia, was abandoned
by the first settlers, on the ground that it was all
desert, and after that act of desertion business
didn’t resume at the old address for 20 years. Yet
it was on the present site of Melbourne that these
first settlers camped, and it was Melbourne that
they abandoned. Explorers helped on the desert
craze. They fled over the surface of the land in
bad seasons and saw that it was dry, and having
no portable boring apparatus with them, and
sometimes not much intelligence with them
either, they never dreamed that there was
in very many places a fair supply of
water below the surface. There are still
persons who bolt similarly over the Australian
surface, and say, like Mandeville, the great liar,
“Thys Lande is All Fulle of Devils,” and be-
cause old impressions and old superstitions (like
Ereetrade) die hard, there are still an enormous
number of people who believe them. Yet the
desert keeps diminishing all the time. Most of
Queensland, half N.S.W., the great bulk of Vic-
toria, a good part of S.A. and Westralia have
been taken out of the category, and other
places are coming out. Wheat has been grown at
Kalgooriie. Up in what was once the Great
Blanky Incredible Desert in Northern Westralia
a vigorous department is now opening up four or
five stock routes, and it finds everywhere that a
cheap portable boring apparatus, carried on a
smellful camel, is all that is required to bring
water to the surface. The direct overland track
from Adelaide to Port Darwin was a desert in
theory from the first beginnings of Australia until
the other day. Now thousands and thousands of
cattle emerge somehow from this alleged howling
waste, and are trucked down the unfinished trans-
continental line for the supply of Adelaide and
Melbourne; and it is known that at the
Macdonnell Ranges, right in the centre of Aus-
tralia, there is rich land, a rainfall, a cool
healthy climate, certain respectable rivers that
could easily be dammed up and used for irriga-
tion purposes, and everything that is needed for a
prosperous settlement of a million people. And
only the other week news came that another
“ desert ” was killed fairly dead, and its corpse is
now lying out in the empty spaces awaiting burial.
The Westralian Government issued the official
report of the expedition that did Westralia’s
share of the survey for the western transcontin-
ental railway—the line which is to link Perth and
Kalgooriie with Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, and Rockhampton. On a stretch of
455 miles from Kalgooriie to the S.A. border
only 40 miles of real desert was discovered.
The rest of the country would certainly
look bad enough to the primitive variety of ex-
plorer —the kind who scuttled promiscuously over
the earth’s surface, and if he didn’t find a river
every time he wanted it, denounced the csuntry as
uninhabitable; but there is water below,
and everywhere there are possibilities of
raising cattle and sheep to great profit. Of
course, there is no intention of alleging


that Australia is a rich country or a well-
watered country, according to European ideas. It
is a land where, in most places, it will always be
necessary to economise the supply of fluid, and to
practise the art of making a pint do in circum-
stances where the wasteful European sloshes
round a quart or a gallon. But when the proper
economy has been learned, there is very little real
jpoprt in Australia, and it is time to take down
the old sign, “ Thys Lande is All Fulle of Devils.”
The Loan Patriot.
Many weird imperialist patriots came to light
in the Dreadnought fever week, and a fair type
of the most frequent kind of imperialist was
Henry Willis, who stands for the Robertson
(N.S.W.) electorate in the House of Repre-
sentatives. Willis wasn’t a unique specimen ;
he didn’t stand alone; in fact, regarded as a
perfectly horrible bogus patriot, he was only one
of many. But Willis put the case so clearly
from the sham or loan patriot’s point of view that
he deserves a mention all to himself. The
following, extracted from a Sydney daily paper,
represents Willis in all his glory
I view with the greatest satisfaction the proposal of
the Daily Telkqraph that Australia should make an
offer of a battleship for national defence. The Common-
wealth has not at any time been pressed to make a con-
tribution to naval defence. What has been done was
voluntarily offered and accepted ; but a sum of £200,000
a year is so small a contribution for so great a navy ever
protecting our vast and expanding commerce that one
is now brought face to face with the meanness of our
position....
In the press a statement by both Mr. Fisher, the Prime
Minister, and Mr. Deakin has been made that the Trea-
sury coffers are empty, and the obligations for the carry-
ing out of our local defence policy and old-age pensions
preclude the Commonwealth from making a generous
offer to share in the defence and solidarity of the empire.
This is a fallacy, begotten of callous ingratitude....
I believe that Parliament would endorse the action of
the Government if an offer of two Dreadnoughts were
made to the home Government. Ways and means are
not difficult to accomplish. I am willing to take the
responsibility of proposing that two Dreadnoughts—
estimated to cost £2,000,000 each to launch, the best in
the world —should be a gift to the nation ; that Common-
wealth bonds for £4,000,000 sterling should be issued at
3 per cent, par in London ; and that a sinking fund of
i per cent, should be opened for the redemption oi the
bonds w'hen they fall due in 60-odd years from the date of
issue. This offer could be made opportunely, and Com-
monwealth stocks would be taken up with enthusiasm.
It will be noted that Henry Willis, M.H.R., is
shocked at the meanness of Australia in only pay-
ing £200,000 a year out of revenue towards the
upkeep of the British navy. Under these cir-
cumstances one would naturally expect the
shocked Henry Willis to propose something
large and generous. What does the shocked (and
wealthy) Henry Wn.LiSreallypropose? Hedoesn’t
seem to intend making any serious sacrifice of
his own money. His idea is that Australia should
borrow £4,000,000 at per cent. (3 per cent,
interest and per cent, sinking fund) in order to
present Britain with two Dreadnoughts. This
per cent, on £4,000,000 would mean £140,000 a
year, and a raving patriot who is so broken up at
the meanness of this country in only paying
£200,000 a year might be expected to propose
something better than £140,000 a year. It seems
to suggest sordid parsimony on the part of Henry
Willis, M. H.R. matter doesn’t express
even half the meanness of Willis. His idea is that
the repayment of the £4,000,000 borrowed for
the two Dreadnoughts should be spread
over a period of about 65 years. Now
the life of a first-class ironclad may be
estimated at somewhere about 20 years. By
that time it is generally obsolete, and only fit to
carry coals, or make a little pretence of skirmish-
ing in the furthest rear rank of the battle. (If
the life of a second-class, middle-aged M.H.R.
is also put down at another 20 years that
will probably be a fair thing.) Therefore,
Mr. Willis proposes that he and his friends
of this generation should get all the honor and
glory, all the whoop, the advertisement, the royal
thanks, and the distribution of titles that would
naturally follow on the presentation of these two
ironclads to the British Government, and that his
grandchildren and other people’s grandchildren
should still be toiling to pay the bill—to work off
the dead horse of Willis’s patriotism—6s years
hence, 40 or 45 years after the two iron-
clads are dead and gone, and 60 years
after the glory and the rewards and the advertise-
ment are all forgotten. Henry Willis is appa-
rently quite agreeable that, in years far ahead, long
after he is dust, tired little work girls now unborn
should rise a little earlier, and toil a little more
strenuously, and live on a drier crust, and sleep
on a harder bed, and dwell in a smaller house and
in a meaner street, and wear shabbier clothes,
and have a little less joy in their sordid lives in
order to pay for his bogus patriotism and his
sham generosity. Of course it may be said that
this one item isn’t very much after all, and that
the difference it will make won’t be appreciable.
The trouble is that the habit of sham patriotism
takes root and grows, and when one man gets
a burst of limelight and a title by being
a heroic imperialist at posterity’s cost,
others are apt to follow suit. These things
accumulate, and vicarious patriotism of the Willis
brand is a curse that goes down from one genera-
tion to another. Moreover, if the bill is really so
small that posterity shouldn’t mind paying for it,
then it is so small that this generation shouldn’t
mind paying for it—especially as this generation
would get the excitement, honor, pomp, frill and
any other advantages that are going, and the next
one will only get the ashes. Therefore The
Bulletin regards the loan variety of Jingo, to
which Henry Willis seems to belong, as about
the poorest thing on God’s earth. And the fact
that it doesn’t seem to have even the glimmering
of an idea as to how poor it is only makes the
situation worse. The man who was willing to
sacrifice his mother-in-law on the altar of his
country has been held up to undue ridicule. Com-
pared to the man who is prepared to sacrifice his
daughter’s baby on the altar of his own adver-
tisement, he was quite a reputable personage.
-♦
Re the Yass-Canberra Site.
Mr. E. W* O’Sullivan writes : If the location
of the Federal Capital site, as outlined by Mr.
Surveyor Scrivener, is to be adopted, then a very
serious blunder is about to be made. Mr.
Scrivener appears to have imitated the action of
an emperor of Russia who said to his officials :
“Survey me a railway from St. Petersburg to
Moscow in a straight line,” irrespective of the
difficulties that lay between. But Mr. Scrivener,
according to his map of the proposed Federal terri-
tory, has done something worse. He has laid out a
leg-of-mutton scheme, which shuts off Yass, Lake
George, the Limestone Plains, Canberra, Barren
Jack and Bungendore. In fact, he has taken away
most of the arguments in favor of the Yass-Can-
berra idea. He has gone ten miles further away
from the Barren Jack water scheme, and he has
merely included a strip of territory to take in the
Cotter River watershed, and then he goes right
through the town of Queanbeyan, then on to
Hoskins Town and Molonglo (or Carwoola), and
thence along the fall of the main dividing range
to Captain’s Flat, and far beyond into Monaro.
Now most of this country is hilly, and heavily-
wooded, with several high plateaux; and
there are not more than three places where
a small plain can be found. It is one of
the worst sites in the world for a capital city,
and it is watered merely by a few creeks
and the sluggish Molonglo River. The climate
is all that can be desired, but everything else
is dead against the idea of having a
Federal capital there. Unless the Board, which
is about to be appointed by the Minister for Home
Affairs, is a body of experts—men who know
every inch of the territory, and are, there-
fore, able to pronounce a definite opinion
about the place—a terrible blunder is about
to be made. Many erstwhile advocates of the
Yass-Canberra site are now beginning to think
that they had better have taken Dalgety, with its
magnificent Snowy River, than make the stupid
and costly mistake of Mr. Surveyor Scrivener,
who wishes to build his capital on a series of
heights, with only one sluggish and insanitary
stream running among them. The attention
of Mr. Hugh Mahon, Minister for Home Affairs,
is directed to the matter, because he will be held
responsible if a serious mistake is made.
+
Loose Eloquence and Business.
It was reported the other day that the Norwegian
steamer Hecktor, with a cargo of steel rails for
the N.S.W. Government, was off Wilson’s
Promontory. The rails and the foreign steamer
Hecktor read like a curious combination of
events. N.S.W. is supposed, just now, to be
supporting the empire for all it is worth, and it
is understood to have put its shoulder to the
wheel something tremendous. In fact, judging
from the row made at last week’s Town Hall
meeting, it is understood to have put its shoulder
to the wheel something incredible. At such a
time it is worth while to mention that if the
N.S.W. Government had got these rails made at
Lithgow, which is in British territory, it would
thereby have helped the empire by" supplying
work for the empire’s people, and have done
something to attract more people to the empire.
Or, if it must import the blessed rails, it
might have given the empire a leg-up by
purchasing the goods in Britain and having
them brought out in a British ship, though
why they should be brought out at all when
there are British subjects here ready and
willing to make them inside the British Empire it
is hard to say. Anyhow, it is an interesting com-
mentary on N.S.W.’s “loyalty” that, even while
it was wrecking its lower jaw through cheering
for the Ma Country at Sydney Town Hall, there
should be a foreign vessel off the coast loaded with
foreign rails for Wade’s community. All the
money paid for these rails and all the freight paid
on these rails helps to enrich one foreigner or
another, so that he can buy more guns wherewith
to take pot shots at the beloved Mother Country.
In fact, the whole Freetrade and importing system
is a scheme whereby Australia buys German and
other foreign goods so that the foreigner may have
profits with which to pay for guns that will come
in handy when he wants to shoot at the empire in
general and at our father Bull in particular. It
must be admitted, of course, that the aid which
might be given to the empire if this country’s
rails were made at Lithgow, by sturdy British
subjects, who would be available in time of need
to carry a gun apiece in the imperial cause, would
be a plain sort of thing, with no frills on it. It
wouldn’t embody any of the glory and excitement
and drunken whoop that can be got by throwing
up the community’s aggregate belltopper or tile
or plug-hat in a large building, while the public
money is going, on Freetrade principles, to enrich
the empire’s foes or possible foes. But no empire
was ever saved by mere whoop in a large building,
while many a one has been saved by plain, steady,
continuous devotion to business. Whoop is
transitory ; it is often insanity, for the loudest
whooper may all the time be breathing the germs
of tuberculosis on his neighbor; and even if
it pans out for £250,000 (it much oftener
pans out for 55.) the results are nothing
compared with what can be achieved by
steady attention to details. A plodding
policy of shoving local industries ahead,
and breaking up the big estates, and filling the
country with new British settlers—a policy that in-
eludes compulsory military training, the creation
of a local fleet, the liquidation of the old debts in
order to make our country solvent against the
time when money may be badly wanted for war
purposes, and which aims in a general way at
making this section of the empire so strong that
the enemy will realise that there are two nations
instead of one to be conquered before the Anglo-
Saxon race goes down—would count for more than
all the loose, promiscuous shouting on earth. In
fact, one of the saddest spectacles on this globe is
that of a community throwing strange sounds off
its chest in a draughty hall in order to express its
devetion to the mother country, while plodding
up the coast comes the living evidence that it is
giving its practical support to the foreigner in
order to save 2d., or some such trifle.
<♦
The Inconsistency of the Jingo Capitalist
“ 0.K.” makes some pertinent remarks :
Permit me to smile scornfully at this recent outbreak
of Dreadnought fever among the Jingo newspapers
of Australia, and other fat capitalists whose anxiety for
the safety of the British Empire professes to be the out-
come of an ardent Imperial spirit. It is so strangely at
variance with their indifference or practical opposition to
the one great business scheme which offers Imperial
sentiment a chance to express itself without taxing the
public. The Pacific Cable idea originated in a panic
of Imperialism. At the time when Britain waged war
against Arabi Pasha, with a view to acquiring control
of Egypt in the interests of perturbed bondholders and
Suez Canal shareholders, it was discovered that the
Eastern Extension Cable Co.’s lines of communica-
tion could be readily cut off. The safety of the
Empire was imperilled 1 The wires of the private
monopoly co. could be severed by an enemy of Britain,
it was certain, and would as certainly be interrupted in
the event of war between two foreign countries. There-
fore the Empire must have an all-British cable line more
secure from interruption by foreign powers. The need
was obvious. Canada took the matter up. Australia
and Maoriland supported the movement, and the warmly
Imperialistic action of the three beastly “ colonial ”
Governments compelled the lukewarm British Govern-
ment to bring the scheme to an issue, but not until 10
years after it was first mooted.
For in the meantime the British money-lenders, of
whom the Sphinx said to the Egyptians(in one of London
Punch’s occasionally bright verses) :
When from your shores the Jews fled under Moses,
Your host pursued, in hope to bring them back ;
Now, uninvited, all the ponderous noses
Of Israel’s children sniff upon your track—
in the meantime the Hebrewocracy of London, forgetting
its old alarm, had become concerned for the welfare of
that bloated monopoly, the Eastern Extension Cable Co.
The profits from a portion of its enormous business were
bound to be reduced by the opposition of the proposed
undertaking. Practical Imperialism was clashing- with
the interests of Private Enterprise. All the Jew-Jingo
influence was exercised to prevent any diminution of divi-
dends by the cheapening of the E.E. Co.’s extortionate
rates through the rivalry of a cable which would at least
command the patronage of the beastly “ colonial ’’Govern-
ments. The cutting of the E.E. Co.’s lines of communi-
cation had disturbed Cohen’s nerves at the time, but the
cutting of its trade would affect his pocket in the future.
The idea of an all-British cable no longer appealed to his
precious patriotism.
Nevertheless, the Pacific cable came into existence. It
is managed by a Board or Trust, representing Great
Britain, Canada, Australia and Maoriland. It bids for
the sympathy and support of every rich “ Imperialist ”
and per-fervidly “ loyal ” newspaper. It invites the
patronage of every blatant stockbroker who ever
mafficked. It has been the means of reducing the cable
rates between Australasia and the Northern world, and
has already effected a saving of, say, £lOO,OOO to this coun-
try. Yet all the business influence of the “Rule Britan-
nia ” capitalists in Australia works for the Eastern Ex-
tension Co. against the Pacific cable. The Jingo press
never uses the Pacific line, the fatted traders withhold
their custom from it, the large majority of stockbrokers
in general and all of them who represent British capital
in Australia send their messages by the privately-owned
cable, the directors of which adopt every possible means
to starve the Pacific line. It was the cry of Safety for
the Empire that inspired the scheme of an all-British
cable, but never a message bearing on the Dreadnought
frenzy has been transmitted by it. In fact, the clap-trap
character of the Dreadnought character is shown in the
anti-imperial spirit of the Jingo cablegrammers who
worked it up.
<s,
The Bogus Land Values of Victoria.
Victoria's new Premier, John Murray, has ideas
about land settlement, but when they are carefully
considered they don’t seem, after all, so very much
better than T. Bent’s ideas. Murray proposes a
system of compulsory purchase. The House of
Rich Landlords will probably throw it out, but
even if the Landlords don’t perpetrate the usual
great ejection act, very little will be gained. The
Government is to fix its baleful eye on a big
estate and try to arrive at an agreement with the
owner as to the value. If it can’t arrive at an
agreement with the owner, then the Government
is to take the land, and the compensation payable
to the owner is to be decided by the Supreme
Court. The Supreme Court, of course, will fix
the value according to the prices which similar
land has fetched in the same or some similar
locality, and as these prices are, and for many
years have been, pure swindle, the result will be
that the compensation will be wholly and utterly
exorbitant. Quite a number of causes have com-
bined to boost up Victorian country lands to
ridiculous prices, and some of them are as follows :
(1) Country lands pay, on an average, only about half
as much in the £ in local rates as city property does.
The rates being wholly inadequate for the upkeep of
roads, etc., the deficiency is made g-ood by endowments
and special grants, most of which the town or city tax-
payer has to meet.
(2) The value of country lands has been doubled and
trebled by the construction of unpayable railways. The
lands in question are not taxed to make good the loss on
these railways. It is never proposed that freight charges
should be put up to a figure that will make these railways
pay. The Government builds lines which can’t possibly
cover expenses, because the big landlord blocks settle-
ment, and through his selfishness there is only a handful
of people to use the lines. Then it aggravates the trouble
by carrying the scrap of produce that is available at
specially low prices. And the city manufacturer pays
exorbitant charges to make good the deficiency.
(3) The country landlord is exempt from all the regula-
tions as to wages and hours of labor which make things
expensive for the city manufacturer. In the country,
miserable little children of seven or eight can be com-
pelled to work on a cow-farm, without wages, and under
conditions which would mean a heavy fine, and possibly a
term in gaol, for the man who runs a city industry.
Therefore the present value of country lands in
Victoria is not the mere value of the lands. It is
the value of the lands plus (1) the value of exemp-
tion from about one-half the fair local rates; (2)
the value of an assumed right to have the local
railway deficits charged to the town and city
worker; (3) the value of the right to use cheap
labor, or gratis and partially enslaved child labor,
in a way that no city manufacturer would be
allowed to do. And these privileges have made
soil which, regarded as mere soil, is honestly
worth £3 an acre to carry a bogus price of £lO or
more in the open market. Also, the artificial
land famine created by the great landlords,
who hold on to their principalities for the
mere pomp and joy of fancying that they
thereby rank with the dukes and lords of England,
adds another bogus value to the soil. If Premier
Murr/*' has a genuine desire to deal with the
land question, he should cut off all subsidies, and
make the shires pay for their own roads and
bridges; create a system of railway freights and
charges which would make every country line pay
itB way, or else charge the deficits to the local
property holders, or else shut up the line ; and,
finally, he should extend the Factory Act sys-
tem to all industries, and make the country
employer pay his workers at the same rate per
hour as the city one. Then the bloated landlord’s
property, which now carries a sham or inflated
value of £lO an acre, would find its true level at
about £3, and land settlement would become a
much more simple proposition.
The Displacement of Labor and the Creation
of the Odd Jobber.
The British people are beginning to worry a good
deal over one of the side issues of Freetrade—
what is called “ the displacement of labor.” The
Freetrader holds that if you can import the article
for tuppence, whereas you can’t manufacture it
for less than thrippence, it is always better to
import it; consequently the Great God Tuppence
is the boss deity of his pantheon. It may be that
the foreigner is only selling the article tempo-
rarily at tuppence in order to destroy the local
industry and get control of the market, and that,
when he has secured control, the price will go up
to fourpence—in other words, it may be that he
reckons it cheaper to lose perhaps £lOO,OOO in
underselling the Freetrade Briton in order to kill
h.m off in an industrial sense and get the trade,
than to spend perhaps £200,000 on buying up the
goodwill of his business. But the real Freetrader
holds that that doesn’t matter in the least; his
creed is to keep his eye glued hard on the tup-
pence of the moment and let the future slide.
If one industry is killed or greatly reduced,
another, he says, is sure to arise in its place; in
short, the men engaged in the first industry can
“go and do something else.” This process of
“ doing something else ” is commonly called “ the
displacement of labor.” The weak points in the
scheme are twofold : (1) very often the displaced
person can’t find something else to do; (2) if he
does find it it is practically certain that he won’t do
it so well. When the silk industry is destroyed
by foreign competition the expert at the making
of silk fabrics may go and be a very bad carpenter,
and when glove-making dies out the expert glove-
maker may become a makeshift cotton-spinner,
ironworker, ’bus-driver, or shipwright, but he is
never more than a makeshift. In most cases he
simply becomes an odd jobber, and remains in the
odd-job line all the rest of his days. It only
requires sufficient displacement to create a nation
of odd-jobbers. This is at the root of a vast deal
of the lamentation about the growing incapacity
of the British workman, and that lamentation
is to be found almost everywhere. Here is a
sample taken at random :
Experienced students of English poverty now recognise
that the most difficult to deal with of all sections of the
unemployed are the Londoners who have spent most of
their lives in the city, drifting from regular to casual
work. They form, when past the age of 40, the majority
of the “unemployables”; they are the fathers of the
27,000 children who are now being fed daily at public
expense ; they are the men who most generally fail when
they are sent to new countries. They are deficient in health,
hope, perseverance and self-respect. A special correspon-
dent of the London Times, who has been travelling exten-
sively in Canada and the United States, finds that it is
the metropolitan Englishmen who prove the greatest dis-
appointment as emigrants. “ One hears the same thing
everywhere,” he says. “The Englishman who succeeds
is hardly ever the Londoner ; the Englishman who fails is
almost always a Londoner.” There was a monotonous
unanimity about his shortcomings at Toronto, Van-
couver, Banff, Calgary, San Francisco, Chicago,
and New York. It was freely admitted that
many Englishmen did well enough. “ It’s the men
you are sending over now that we’re talking about,”
says one of a group of Canadians. “ What’s the
matter? Seems to me there’s a sort of dry-rot coming
over the people.” Mr. Edison repeated the same story.
He had been obliged to close down his phonograph factory
in London because the labor was inefficient and costly.
The place did not pay. Similar factories in Germany,
Austria and Belgium gave satisfactory results. “ Mind,”
he explained, “I’m not speaking of the English mechanic.
He’s all right. None better in the world. I’m talking of
the common laborer—the man you pick up in the streets.
What is it? Too much booze ? Or general deterioration ?
Or what ? ” It is mainly for the benefit of these men that
For England—Certainly!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We want a ship for England—come and pass the
word along,
And let the fight for ads. and fame be willing from
the gong!
Put down my name for knighthood, please, and
fifty thou. I’ll pay
With joy, to keep the Deutscher from old Eng-
shores away.
Just mention me to Edward, please—yes, put me
on your list;
When England is in peril it’s a pleasure to assist—
And don’t forget your humble when you hear the
long guns crash.
What’s that? Oh, damn Australia ! —it’s old
England gets my cash !
Oh, don’t you hear ’em sobbing—it’s the widows
of the slain ?
Oh, can’t you see the future glommed with gore,
all spilt in vain ?
Oh, pity pore old England if Australia doesn’t
bite
And send a brand-new Dreadnought ’Ome to put
the matter right.
Oh, hear the widows sob, and England’s orphans
do a yelp
Adown the dismal future ! Friends, it’s now our
turn to help !
Eh, what? We’ll have some widows of our own
to keep, one day ?
Oh, Devil take Australians ! —it’s the English
ones that pay !
Here, take my fifty thousand—l’m an Empire-
buildmg bloke !
God save the King, and England, till I’m dubbed
a knight—or broke !
Yes, write my name, with pleasure ! Here’s my
cheque, and don’t forget
The name—the name’s important! What ? And
shall Australians let
This lovely southern section of the empire go to
pot,
With dirty, yellow millions swarming through our
cities —what ?
To Hell with mere Australia, and hooray for
Edward Rex!
Say, can’t you see him hanging leather medals
round our necks ?
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
We Don’t Need Worry Any More.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The .Tap is busy building now a noble naval dock ;
His little men are blasting out foundations in the
rock ;
His little men are drilling (they who drubbed the
Muscovite)—
They think it’s well to learn to shoot before they
go to fight.
But We —We sit at home a-dreaming,
And We —We dawdle at the door;
For we hold the creed that the bulldog breed
Has but to bellow in the hour of need,
And the Jap will fall in a funk, indeed —
And we won’t need worry any more !
The Russ who fled before the Jap has raised
another fleet;
He calculates a day will come to clear his old
defeat;
And if it come in little time or if it tarry long
He thinks the man who learns to fight may help
his land along.
But We—We sit at home a-dreaming,
And We —We dawdle at the door ;
For well we know when the trumpets blow
We shall fright our foe with a loud “ Ho-ho !
How dare you scowl on a bulldog so ? ”
And we won’t need worry any more.
The oily son of old Pekin is shaking things along,
He’s raised an army (for a start) a hundred
thousand strong ;
His pigtail which we used to pull and towzle at
our ease
Is out, like England’s flag, to brave the battle and
the breeze;
But We—We sit at home a-dreaming,
And We—We dawdle at the door;
We know Won Hi is a dealer sly,
But he never could fight and he never will try ;
And his big yellow host is a big yellow lie,
So we don't need worry any more.
And Deutschland’s Kaiser’s busy with his mighty
ships of war,
And when his neighbors query, “Bill, what are
those vessels for?”
He says, “ I tell the folks who ask, whene’er I go
to sea,
That Bill’s at peace with all the world—and
Here’s the Guarantee !”
But We—We sit at home a-dreaming,
And We—We dawdle at the door ;
For all this building and battling fuss
We don’t care half of a tinker’s cuss ;
It’s a long way off and it don’t touch Us,
So we don’t need worry any more.
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, NTS.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Maohines at your
Door. We are Agents for fche Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane'
The confusion of proposals between the
Commonwealth and States’ Governments on the
Dreadnought question is somewhat confounding.
But, no doubt, wise counsels will ultimately
prevail. Indeed, they must prevail, if due atten-
tion be given to the inspiring influence of D.C.L.,
the Whisky of the Wise. The policy of D.C.L.,
the scholarly brand, is the prevention of aggression
by wise united empire preparation.*
the Socialists of the “ Right to Work Council ” are
demanding that the Government shall immediately in-
crease the Treasury grant of £300, 000 to £1,000,000.
London is a big city, and it is in the big cities that
the odd-jobbers congregate; therefore the Lon-
doner—the man from the biggest and odd-jobbest
city on earth—makes the worst of immigrants.
He is the finished product of much “displace-
ment of labor. ” And he represents about one-fourth
of England’s population. The Socialist party
claims for him “ the right to work,” which is per-
fectly fair and just; but if it is merely proposed
that the State should find him odd jobs or relief
work, his deterioration, and that of his sons and
grandsons, will still go on. And he can’t be taken
away from the odd jobs (or his sons can’t; very
often he is himself an incurable case) until his
country’s industries are nailed down by a Protec-
tionist tariff. With Freetrade, free competition,
and the perpetual displacement of labor, the
casual, shiftless odd-job person seems an incurable
woe. His sons will probably be more casual than
himself, and his grandsons more casual still, and
the steady growth of casualness eats the heart out
of a nation.
+
The old hard-shell Tories of this country, who
have hitherto accepted the voice of London
Times as the voice of God in matters of himperial
policy, must now abandon their ancient faith or
cease their shrieking for an Australian donation
to the British Navy. The Times, it seems, “sug-
gests that the best use to which the naval
co-operation with Great Britain offered by the
colonial dominions can be put is towards
strengthening the defences of each dominion
in its own quarter of the world.” The
strange thing is not that the Times took
a broad view of himperial hinterests, but
that Melbourne Age published the judicial
utterance of the unexcited journal. The
result of that cabled suggestion will probably
be the death or conversion of a few highly-respect-
able and influential old Australian gentlemen.
When two or three hundred leading citizens in
frock coats have put their tall hats together, and
decided that the hempire is no stronger than its
weakest part, and our part is one of the weakest,
and the most imperial thing we can do is to con-
centrate all our imperial energy on the job of
strengthening our weak part lest it b e lost to the
empire, then there will be a better and brighter
outlook for all parties hereabouts.
-7 —■♦
Starting, apparently, with a leaning towards a
bridge to connect the north and city sides of
Sydney Harbor, the three Commissioners ap-
pointed to go into the whole matter have finally
decided to recommend a trinity of tunnels—one
for trams, another for trains, the third for vehicles.
A bridge is an airy, breezy thing ; at the best a
subway is grimy, gritty and more or less insani-
tary. But it seems that “ tubes,” to relieve the
horribly over-crowded city trams are inevitable :
something certainly must come, and the “tube”
is the only scheme at present visible. The so-called
“central” railway station hangs on a manu-
factured precipice at the tail-end of the city ; and
the rush of the people to the trams—the one
means by which they can get into the city unless
they walk and sniff the thousand stinks of the
Chinese quarter as they do it—is like the rush of
ants when the socialistic scarifier breaks up the
happy home. For a few years some of the pas-
sengers stood ; then when there wasn’t any more
standing-room inside, they crowded the plat-
forms ; now they hang on to the buffers and any
odd projections. And as there are no more un-
occupied projections to hang on to, and as the
summit of the vehicles can’t be reached ex-
cept by the bounding kangaroo, the time
has arrived when more vehicles will have to
be used. But already the narrow, crooked streets
carry as many trams as they can with any reason-
able amount of safety; wherefore, the new lot of
vehicles will have to go either overhead or under-
neath. If a circular overhead line were decided
on, it might work in well enough with a Harbor
bridge; but the more practical “tube” idea
for bringing the people into the city dove-
tails best into the Harbor subway scheme, un-
attractive as it is from other points of view. On
the financial side the subway also apparently has
some merits. Its cost is no doubt largely a matter
of guesswork: no one knows exactly what
sort of substance Australia is made of immediately
under the Harbor bottom along the lines to be
followed. On the lowest estimate, however, the
cost of a towering bridge, with its necessarily long
approaches, would overtop that of the subway.
Further, while the bridge would have to be com-
pleted before it could be put to any use, one
tunnel could be driven at a time—the tramway
“tube,” to cost £460,000, is recommended as a first
instalment. It is even possible that, with the work
done in sections in that way, the cost might be met
out of revenue ; but with the State facing one huge
undertaking of from 2% to 3 millions, there would
be so little chance of anything so sensible that the
Eossibility is scarcely worth considering if the
ridge should be decided on. And the out-
look for borrowing or 3 millions isn’t too
cheerful, so that the bridge scheme is more likely
to be hung up indefinitely ; and it has been hung
up outrageously long already.
The Vie. State Labor Conference, which opens in
Melbourne on Good Friday, has some quaint sug-
gestions and a few cheerful proposals before it.
One branch wants the State to provide medical
aid and maintenance for all women during mater-
nity, but, unfortunately, it omits to look at the
financial side of the proposition. Another desires
free meals for all State scholars; others request
the establishment of State farms, mines, factories
and shops to afford employment; one wants a
freehold home for every family, and another calls
for the nationalisation of inventions. Also there
is a motion to the effect that State Parliaments be
abolished —-which would be a very good motion if
it only went far enough and provided for some-
thing to take the place of State Parliaments while
the government was being reconstructed. The
proposals also include one for the extension of
Wages Boards to rural industries (to which this
paper says “ Hooray ! ”), and another in favor of
land-value taxation (to which The Bulletin says
“Hooray!” louder than ever). But in all the
boiling there isn’t one which proposes that Pren-
DERGAST should be authorised to combine with the
Liberals of the House, as Price has combined with
the Liberals of S. Australia, to put through a few
of the dozens of things of which the party has
expressed its approval. On the contrary, in fact,
one union actually proposes that all Labor candi-
dates should be bona fide wage-earners; in short,
that the beliefs which a man carries in his head
should not be counted as of only half so much
consequence as the corns he carries on his hands.
4.
“Silas Snell”: It is interesting to observe
public opinion in the making. One “great
daily,” anxious to grind its own battleaxe or to
put a political opponent in a hole, suddenly
abandons its well-preached principles, and utters
an early morning scream, calling upon Australia
to give £2,000,000 worth of shipping to some dear
old other country. It’s despised contemporary
hears the shriek. It awakens in a cold sweat to a
realisation of the fact that it has been pipped on
the post, and to make up lost ground it raises a
still more deafening yell in favor of making it
four millions. “Give John Bullion four millions !
Give him six ! Give him the earth ! ” Little
mad bands of reporters, armed with sharp
pencils, are turned loose to run down
gaud mayors, city councillors, politicians and
preachers, merchants, and swelled personages,
and rush them into giving expression to senti-
ments akin to the above. The enlarged citizens
respond with shrill unanimity. They get feverish
tongue and hectic flush of the imagination con-
sidering how glorious is the idea of giving floating
fortresses and tons of other peoples’ money to J.
Bull. Stock brokers, political aspirants, land
agents, lawyers, and fiery little publications assist
to swell the clamor, and, behold, public opinion is
in full blast before the stunned public has had an
opportunity of getting a word in. It is all quite
simple. You get a hollow reporter, and load him,
and fire him off with a loud report, and there you
are.
4.
The concluding paragraph of a recent press tele-
gram gave Bruce Smith a chance to rise up and
perform a Petriana myth ; but, for some unex-
plained reason, he neglected to dp so. Thesteam-
ship Paroo arrived at Fremantle from Singapore,
and, as there was smallpox amongst the colored
crew, it was ordered into quarantine. The Cus-
toms had been advised previous to the vessel’s
arrival that nine Chinese stowaways were con-
cealed on board. A careful search was made of
the ship, but, at the first try, no Yellow Peril
could be found. However, the captain, goaded to
immense efforts by the thought of the £lOO
per head fine, went about like a blood-
hound till he found, in a tank under the
boilers, £6OO worth of the Saffron Agony,
amazingly dirty after 34 days of dreadful hiding.
The half-dozen masses of dirt were dragged on
deck and hosed by the crew until they were fairly
clean ; but, although the searchers ransacked the
Paroo from stem to stern, no trace could be found
of the other three, said to be on board. As the
ship had to be fumigated before it could resume
running, and as the most energetic searching had
failed to bring the other three Chows to light, the
process of disinfection was allowed to proceed on
the assumption that only six Chows had stowed
away. If another three were present when the
fumigating was done, it is fairly safe to bet that
they are now defunct. Of course, the shipping
people are not to blame if they have slain the
three dishonest Mongols by sulphur; if Bruce
Smith inadvertently roasted a burglar who had
concealed himself in the Smith gas-stove, nobody
would blame Spruce Myth ; rather would they
send him wires of congratulation at his lucky
escape from robbery and violence. And if Bruce
had examined the stove before lighting it, with
the intention of warning any concealed desperado
that he was about to cook, the world would
applaud him as a great but short-sighted humani-
tarian. Still, there is no need for Smith to vex
his soul with reflections of the kind. Let it
suffice that there is a microscopic possibility that
three Chows have been stifled. So far as The
Bulletin can see, it is a good, strong foundation
upon which to uprear a Petriana myth.
4.
The clamor of certain persons who demand that
the Federal dockyard, and consequently the
future naval base of the Commonwealth, should be
in Sydney Harbor is one of the worst samples of
selfish folly of which the parish-minded party has
been guilty. Year by year the mercantile fleet in
Port Jackson grows larger. Circular Quay is
crowded to a dangerous extent. Darling Harbor
is crowded. Sydney’s streets are dangerously con-
gested, and the railway authorities complain that
the lines leading through the bottle-neck into the
city on the peninsula are dangerously congested
also. The struggle to bring everything to Sydney
has already led the city into difficulties ; yet the
struggle goes on. The attempt to make Sydney
the naval as well as the commercial port of the
Commonwealth must end in disaster. The fight-
ing fleet should be removed to some non-com-
mercial centre. One of the requisites of an ad equate
naval base is room for boat practice and general
manoeuvres. There is very little room in Sydney
Harbor now, and 20 years hence there will be less.
By that time the number of war vessels will have
increased and the trading fleet will have vastly
increased, and the attempt to crowd the two into
one narrow gulf will have become an absurdity.
The removal of the whole naval establishment to
Twofold Bay would leave Port Jackson free for
commerce, and the establishment of a separate
naval port would make for secrecy and safety.
No country which knows its business mixes its
navy and its commerce more than it can help.
That is why the United States has its naval
stations at such places as Newport, Port Royal
and Key West, instead of at New York ; why
France has them at Cherbourg and Brest, rather
than at Marseilles and Havre; why Kiel and
Wilhelmshaven, and not Hamburg and Bremen,
are the naval centres of Germany ; and so on. It
is impossible to shove everything into one scrap
of water, and even the Congested Population
Party must draw the line somewhere.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her, Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill. ”
Theatre Royal “A Royal Divorce.”
Criterion “ The Hypocrites.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace “ Queen of the Night.”
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Town Hall Eisteddfod.
George-st. West Wirth’s Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her- Majesty’s “ The Girl of the Golden West.”
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Ofera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
King’s “ The French Spy.”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
•
Ada Crossley and her intrepid band of
melomaniacs—Harrison, Grainger, Sametini, and
Ryan—poured forth at Sydney Town Hall on
three nights the music that was part speech, part
painting, and wholly fine and artistic. The vocal
units were in victorious voice after the M.L. tour,
and the two players—the Australian and the Hol-
lander—were enlarged in power after the sulphur
baths and the “ nip ” in the air of the Dominion.
Although the co. returned to us in our dullest
season, when the society whirl had lagged to a
rotatory crawl, it was welcomed by satisfactory
audiences until the final concert, when the
Town Hall was crowded. The great contralto
throughout the programmes wove a beauti-
ful scheme of song, showing her versatility
in the devotional work of oratorio ex-
cerpts, in the florid Italian school, and the
emotional or dignified or sluggish themes of our
friends the Teutons, who are said to be preparing
to put us under the harrow and inflict their awful
irregular verbs and their beer on the people who
don’t spell William with a final j. English,
Scotch and Irish ballads had likewise delicate
attention on occasions from the singer. Harrison,
as this listener remarked at first hearing him, is
an event; and on this his return visit, the im-
pression is left standing with increased distinct-
ness. Mr. Jay Ryan, the new member of the
combination, got there through Mr. Hamilton
Earle’s departure. The baritone, who came here
to enact Danny Mann in ‘ * The Colleen Bawn, ” is
thus not quite new to Sydney. When he trolls
out Irish ballads he is very much at home on his
particular perch in the lyrical tree. Sametini,
the joyous fiddler, and “old” Percy Grainger—
these are no negligible artists in the Cross-
ley bunch. The co. will open at Brisbane
on Saturday. After that will occur a tour of the
sunstruck districts : Townsville, Charters Towers,
Rockhampton, Bundaberg, Maryborough and
Gympie. Melodic work will also be done at
Tamworth, Warwick, Maitland, Bathurst, Orange
and Penrith. In six weeks’ time the co. will
returmto Sydney, and give a concert in aid of
certain charitable institutions. By the time it is
ready to go outward-bound in May, the concerted
crowd will have covered 22,000 miles of Austral-
asia ; which is pretty good exercise.
MR. GEORGE P. CAREY,
Of Allan Hamilton’s Dramatic Company, due at
the Palace Theatre. Sydney, Saturday, April s,
in “ Queen of the Night.”
Photo, by Tosca, Melbourne.
The long season of more-or-less comic
opera at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) ends on Friday ;
and then it’s eastward ho ! for Maoriland, where
the eo. will begin a season of Merry Widowing,
with the wonderfully versatile Florence Young
as the widow vice Carrie Moore (married), and
Betty Ohls (about-to-be). Marietta Nash, poor
George Lauri’s widow, also joins the co., by the
way. The large vacancy left by the comic-opera-
tors will be filled by Jack and his friend Jill, two
money-spinners who have been trying to comfort
Victoria for the loss of Bent by giving 111 con-
secutive performances. The Sydney season will
open on Saturday.
** * *
At Sydney Theatre Royal an object-lesson
is still being provided every night of the week,
bar Sundays, in the classic simplicity of the
French divorce laws a century ago. Not only are
audiences provided with a heap of new informa-
tion regarding the personalities of Napoleon I.
and his first missus, but they are also
made to realise that in those enlightened
times there was no harm in collusion, no
tactless King’s Proctor to intervene between
parties who agreed to differ, and nothing to
prevent decrees nisi being made absolute within
four seconds or less. Is it to be wondered that
the over-married citizen who watches J. Knight’s
high-handed doings these nights mutters regret-
fully such conventional daily-paperese reflections
as “ Eheu fugaces /” “ Temper a mutantur,” etc.
The Theatre Royal will display Napoleonic
manners and customs till Friday of next week,
and after that “ An Englishman’s Home” will be
thrown open to public inspection.
To-night (Thursday) Miss Madge Mclntosh
bids farewell, in four different impersonations, to
as many of her admirers as Sydney Criterion will
nola u On (jrood .r riaay a sacred concert co. will
occupy the Theatre of the Disreputable Drop
Curtain ; and on the following Saturday H A
Jones’ “ The Hypocrites ” is to be staged there,
with Harcourt Beatty, Gaston Mervale and
other known dramatic quantities (also some
unknown imported ones) in leading parts “ The
Hypocrites,” says the New York Pekss, “is one
of the dramas that gets under your heart ” The
New York World allows that “‘The Hypocrites’
has heart-beats in it from beginning to end.”
Plainly the Cri. patron should take an extra
handkerchief along for the next week or so.
*# * *
Sydney Palace is the quick-change theatre
of the Ma State’s capital. The clever Cherniavski
trio finish their season on Wednesday, March 31;
the Dudley Dramatic Co. skips on for Thursday
and Friday nights to play a four-act comedy by
Jas. L. Goodman, entitled “ A Secret Wedding”;
and on Saturday, April 3, Allan Hamilton’s co’.
takes the stage with “Queen of the Night,”
described by the advertisement as “a romantic,
sensational drama of exceptional power and in-
terest.” The advt. also asserts that it has been
running throughout England and America for the
past four years, so presumably it is one of the
favorite heart-wringers of the Old World. At
time of writing, the Cherniavskis have two con-
certs to play through before their lease runs out
and the gas is turned off at the meter. It seems
an injustice to describe as a wonder-child the eldest
of the three, who is a fairly tall young man in
grown-up garments ; still, it is a long way round
the earth, and manhood may have stolen un-
awares on the young musician while the journey
was yet incomplete. Mischel, the serious man-child
who weaves music-dreams with his ’cello and his
bow, is the finest artist of the three ; but then he
is at least 5000 years older than the other two.
As he plays, his face wears the calm, wise look of
an ancient harper, and his grave acknowledgment
of the applause seems to say : “ No, it isn’t at all
wonderful. I was merely thinking of a little ex-
perience of mine several lives ago.” Leo has the
advantage of Jan in years and experience ; but
both of them follow behind their small, elderly
brother. Mrs. Marie Hooton and Percival Driver,
the two singers of the co., provide valuable sup-
port for the three boys.
* * * *■
Miss Estelle Mabel W T ard’s concert last
week drew the paying patient in large round
numbers; and as Miss Ward’s contralto is the
best known and most popular of this State’s pre-
sent productions in the contralto line, the paving
patient was well rewarded. The singer presently
makes a tour of Australia before trying her luck
in London.
** * *
The soulful-eyed Greder, ex-operatic artist,
gathered his school of opera and singing about
him last Wednesday night at the Y.M.O. A. Hall,
and admitted the public to a recital. There was
an immense quantity of nice young womanhood,
and a lesser leavening of adolescents who wear
braces, and they all of them sang with great satis-
faction to their friends, and possibly to themselves
and their teacher. Teacher Greder himself also
lifted his voice in some well selected bull-roars.
Bouquets were numerous and costly.
** * *
Jiu-Jitsu is the thing now at Sydney
Tivoli. The exponents of the effective but grue-
some art are two dapper Japanese, who go
through their performance dressed in loose white
shirts and baggy trousers that reach just below
their knees. Ryugoro Shima, the smaller of the
pair, wears a black sash round his waist to dis-
tinguish him from his colleague, Kiyo Kameda.
As the more experienced of the pair—he is
a professor of the cruelty—he takes the
assailant’s part in all the encounters; and
every time Kiyo hurls him to the mat with a
dull, meaty thud, and secures a hold that, in real
fight, would mean a snapped leg or arm, or a dis-
located neck. The men make no sound as they
wrestle, except that Ryugoro, as he tackles, hisses
through his clenched teeth as a signal to Kiyo to
apply the countering grip or throw. Then follows
the usual thud, and the swift securing of the
beaten man, who, when hopelessly trussed,
signifies his surrender by hitting his leg or the
floor with whatever iimb he happens to have free.
The audience stirs uneasily the first two or three
times that Ryugoro crashes to the floor; but,
although he sounds like a side of beef falling in
a butcher’s shop, he springs up again as easily as
a rubber doll. Thereafter, the crowd sits back and
enjoys it. At the end of the turn, he shows how
Jiu Jitsu students are taught to break their fall.
He leaps backwards into the air and lands on his
shoulders ; then he dives face downwards through
the'air and arrives on his chest and forearms, held
in a half-prayerful attitude. The middle section
of the demonstration consists of a friendly
wrestling match, wherein he and Kiyo grasp
the lapels of each others’ shirts and walk
several miles about the cocoanut matting trying
to trip each other up. The other new
turn is provided by Cull Pitt, a brisk conjurer
with a sense of humor. With the aid of a felt
hat-brim, a black cloak and the limelight man, he
imitates Napoleon and other well-known music-
hall props. The balance of the programme is pro-
vided by Tom Woottwell, the two Bells, G. W.
Hunter, Aimee Desiree, the two Prices and Baby
Watson. The present first part is like one of
Mozart’s masses which has been forcibly dressed
in kilts and turned loose in a demented state in
the Highlands.
** * *
At the Glaciarium (Sydney) the West
management displayed the wisdom of the serpent
by turning on views of the theory and practice of
Alpine exploration : snow and endless ice seemed
to be appropriate subjects of pictorial amuse-
ment for a community thrilled with stories of
wild adventures around the South Pole. Other
good films at present on view show how herring
fishing is carried on; and the Dreadnought
hysteria is pandered to by illustrations of lifeaboard
that engine of destruction. Altogether the menu
is sufficiently varied to tempt all appetites.
#* # *
At Sydney Lyceum Spencer’s Theatrescope
still finds the voice of Harry Lauder an attractive
item for public consumption. Spencer has now
taken to illustrating, or telling by photo-
graphic representations, the stories of Conan
Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes ; and the yarns
lend themselves to this class of representa-
tion. Spencer, too, has worked up the snow


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
business by a fine film, which brings home very
incisively what it is to be exploring in a region of
eternal and all-pervading ice. The Spencer
method of exploring those regions is far the most
comfortable.
** # *
The return of Miss Titbell Brune to Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) in the character of The Girl
was hailed with acclamation by the multitude that
mostly stopped away when she was re-appearing
last year as Peter Pan. Melbourne had already
an inkling of the fact that The Girl aforesaid is
“something like Sunday.” Now, Sunday is fondly
remembered as a spinster who asserted woman’s
righttosay “D —n !” on suitable occasions, and for
whom every man in the melodrama was prepared
to lay down his life. At a rough calculation,
Melbourne contains fully 25,000 girls with a
natural desire to say “ D—n ! ” frankly and openly
when they feel deeply moved. Each of these and
their respective mothers would like to have all
the men in the district ready to die for her.
Hence, perhaps, the durable popularity of Tittell
Brune. She started her Australian career by
realising on the stage the strongest ambitions of
her sex. As Sunday, she uttered a swear word
at the moment of her first entrance, and she had
an unchallenged monopoly of the masculine love
and affection in the drama. Moreover, the
villain died for her, in a sense. He was so
pressing in his attentions to the lady that one of
her other adorers shot him through the back.
* * * *
“ The Girl of the Golden West ” surpasses
even Sun.day in the strength of her appeal to
feminine sympathies. Excepting a squaw, whose
personal attractions don’t count, Tittell Brune is
the only lady in the bill. She runs a pub for the
comfort of Californian gold-diggers; and when
they humbly request her to keep the change, she
sweeps it into the till. The bold barmaid and the
chaste mermaid are beautifully blended in her
dealings with her lawless idolators. She is
Queen of the Earth thereabouts. She and kyards
and whisky are the only things anybody talks
about. Yes, there is one more subject for dis-
cussion—a mysterious “ road-agent, ’’ or highway
robber, who proves to be Thomas Kingston when
he arrives upon the scene. Nobody knows
Kingston by sight except the Girl, who met
him once before, and was fascinated by
his comparatively clean, bank-clerkian appear-
ance and non-American manner of speech. It
goes without saying that he reciprocates the Girl’s
admiration, for no heroine of a drama, up to now,
has ever loved in vain. Besides, she “shouts” a
whisky and cigar for him, whereas the other law-
less worshippers are charged not less than 30
cents a drink. It’s a case of love among the
bottles. Having invited Kingston to come round
to her private dwelling place at 1 a.m. and talk
pretty to her, the Girl indulges in maiden medi-
tation. She repeats, dreamily, her lover’s haunt-
ing words, “ You have the face of an angel ” ; and
she rounds off the soliloquy with “ Oh, h—ll !” in
tones of golden-western rapture.
* * ■* •*
Alone in her domicile with the road agent,
this angel of whisky teaches the sinner to be
good. He had come to rob, but he remains to
repent of his past life. Unfortunately, the local
sheriff—a terrible fellow in a tajl hat.and garments
of funereal gloom—has discovered that the Girl’s
new admirer is the robber who is wanted for
hanging purposes. The sheriff is a combination
of Crown Prosecutor, learned Judge, Lord High
Executioner, and general undertaker; also he is
jealous of the Girl’s young man. The atmosphere
of the second act is charged with electricity, and
there’s a blizzard raging out of doors. At first
the convert looks likely to be captured, but the
danger passes by. Then the Girl learns that he
has been a favored customer at an opposition pub
kept by a disrespectable lady, and she turns him
adrift into the raging blizzard, where he gets shot
by the gruesome sheriff. He comes back, bleed-
ing, to her care, and she hides him from the other
man, who returns likewise and finds him. Finally
the sheriff and the Girl play kyards, on the
understanding that he is to have the Girl if he
wins, and let the wounded road-agent go free in
any case. The Girl wins. She has a “full-hand ’’
secreted inside her stocking, and with her three
aces and a pair she cheats the guileless sheriff ;
whereupon the heart of every woman in the
audience thrills with satisfaction. The end of
this second act is a master-stroke of melodramatic
effect. The situation was false, but the denoue-
ment is just what would have happened under the
circumstances had they been possible. In the
third act, which consists largely of low comedy
tinged with melancholy, the road-agent is cap-
tured by another sheriff. But he escapes
hanging. The boys decide to let him off on
account of his fondness for their Girl, and vice
versa ; and a closing scene shows the happy pair
humping their blueys towards Boston or some-
where. Presumably the Girl sold her pub, on
terms, to her faithful bar-tender.
* * * *
Considering that Miss Tittell Brune has
no special qualification for these picturesque, un-
polished heroine characters (except it is that she
lacks grace of style), her success is hard to account
for. She is rarely convincing in a quiet scene, or
thoroughly impressive in her tempestuousness, yet
the total result of her endeavors is satisfactory.
She scores no boundary hits, but she keeps her end
up and makes a lot of single points with a large
variety of little strokes. And if she is nearly always
theatrical in her assumption of ingenuousness
the fault escapes the test of contrast, for Kingston
also is obviously an actor all the time, and George
Bryant, as the sheriff, is the embodied spirit of
melodrama. One could forgive him much of his
unnatural sombreness if he would enunciate his
Wild-Western language more distinctly. A dozen
or fifteen other devoted adherents of the Girl are
represented in more or less artistic and vociferous
manner by Leonard Willey, Loring Fernie,
McMahon, Maurice Dudley, etc., etc. ; and the
stage-settings and the blizzard are as pleasing as
the voice of an incidental nigger-minstrel, who
sings “Lead me back to mother when I’m gone,”
or words to that effect.
** * *
A passing event at Melbourne King’s, on
Saturday, was the republication of “The French
Spy,” which is a rather clumsy nightmare in four
solemn yells. Its chief character, a female con-
spirator whose every glance is a plot, was created
in no wakeful hour of fancy. Seemingly of
infinitesimal respectability at the outset, she
develops, towards the 'end, saintliness’ that
should excite faint, heavenly murmurs of
“Dicken!” To avoid a lie, she blinds her-
self, and further displays a superhumanness
of conduct. In utter contrast to her fatuity,
however, is the vague malignancy of Frances Ross
Romanoff, who pranks about in a cLeTni-bloncLc wig
and countless changes of arrogant raiment.
Mostly she travels through the four acts of non-
sense, violently and sincerely detesting the other
lady—in fact, the play is really the mutual detest-
ation of the pair, with trimmings of sentimentality
and weep. Captain Walter Baker, as an English-
man of immense splendor, supplies the sentiment
with a likable quiet and austerity; and for that fact
is pardoned a deed of strangulation for his coun-
try’s sake. A Russian of mildly hideous pursuits
is Count Laurence Dunbar, who carelessly leaves
maledictions and dead bodies lying about. In
the fourth act he, with some unpoetical license,
assassinates Miss Frances Romanoff, who appears
to have crowded on the sectarian issue for the
occasion in a robe of passionate green. As for her
acting, it is forceful, but loud. Miss Duggan’s
conception of a spy, with alluring mannahs and
billows of hair-curl, must have cost yards and
yards of a modiste’s time; but her idea
of a spy turned saint seems like a gibe at her pre-
vious magnificence. Edmund Duggan plays an
illustrious police official with the demeanor of a
softgoods clerk; and a notorious humorist named
Bert Bailey perpetrates an heroic Irishman with
a brogue that won’t keep still. There are inter-
mittent occurrences of jangling fetters, cloaked
desperadoes, cowled monks, dismal policemen,
bad temper, oaths, and frivolity. There are also
the intermittent occurrences of Temple Harrison
and Max Clifton, whose converse at times reaches
a depth of idiocy beside which a dull platitude is
a flash of genius.
** * *
“ Cinderella, ” at the Royal (Melbourne),
has definitely decided to make “ the record run.”
This is the fifteenth week of Meynell and Gunn’s
coherent narrative panto., and it is now steadily
overtaking the score of “ Jack and Jill,” which
declared its innings closed last Friday. Next
week, presumably, “Cinderella” will arrive at
the record-total, after which it will perhaps drop
some hints concerning the end that is not yet in
sight.
** * *
At the Opera House, the silent wizardry
of Chung Ling Soo continues as before, and every
night the apparent emptiness of Soo’s glass
meat-safe is replaced by a gorgeously-apparelled
little lady, to the astonishment of an overflowing
multitude. Also Graham and Dent, Cissie
Curlette, and others are maintaining their places;
but the Latonas, who cropped up again for a final
week, have packed their Saratagos and departed
for distant shores.
* * #
Life in Burmah and human happenings in
Constantinople are being reflected on West’s
screen at the Olympia this week. Likewise, the
THE CHERNIAVSKIS, NOW PERFORMING
IN SYDNEY.
waterfalls of Tivoli present a beautifully wet
appearance, and sunset in Switzerland is de-
servedly applauded. For the rest of West’s
Pictures, they are dramatic, instructive or
frivolous, as the case may be. Some are
very French in their frivolity, but not
sufficiently wicked to bring a blush to the
cheek of the military band. The bandsmen are
brazen instrumentalists, anyhow, and it takes a
particularly giddy picture to affect them seriously,
At the Glaciarium, where J. and N. Tait direct
the biograph, one, sees lumbermen at work in
Canada’s backwoods, and beholds William Tell in
his world-renowned act of pipping the pippin
from his offspring’s head. Here, too, the assort-
ment of funny pictures is large and popular,
whilst the tears of the congregation are reserved
for a picture-story entitled “ Where is My Wan-
dering Boy To-night,?” the question being re-
peated in song form by Miss Lilian Adams.
* * *
Yeotha, the hard-faced Indian lady, and
her mixed-magic “encampment” with Captain
Grade, are the chief feature of Adelaide Tivoli,
and they bring in that real variety which is the
soul of a Variety show. (This is where the little
city feels grateful to Rickards. No other
manager brings to it just that kind of a “ turn.”)
Picture-shows have narrowed down to two —
Olympia, and the Continental at the Exhibition,
which latter has found it well to get under cover
these evenings. The Pierrots, on the beach at
Glenelg, still risk bronchitis and rheumatism,
however. Various concerts have been given by
talented young people “ leaving for London,” or
“just returned from study in London.” The Royal
is for the moment empty, Miss Brune having
moved on with her character-studies of charming
but always profane heroines. The men in this co.
are very strong ; there are half-a-dozen who could
step out and play the lead at any moment. But in
“Diana” an unusually large complement of
feminine parts has to be allowed for. It was a pity
an afternoon performance of that play could not
be given. The sight of five young women letting
down their hair and taking off their outer clothing
in public is one that strikes a chord of joyful
dread in the female heart.
But can’t something be done to stop the
present smashing-up of a stage scene for the pur-
pose of taking a “call”? Miss Brune and King-
ston are probably no worse than the rest; but
they are artists, and might set a good
example. The first act of “Sunday” is a
very bad case. The Bad Man lies dead on the
floor. Jacky (T. W. Lloyd), who has shot him, is
brooding over his work. Sunday, in whose
defence he was killed, steals away all broken up.
Curtain. Thrills and applause. It goes up again.
The corpse has bolted off the stage, and the two
sharers of a dread secret are standing, hand-in-
hand, smiling at the public ! There are dozens of
similar cases. What does one go to the theatre
for ? The whole resources of stagecraft are poured
out for some 40 minutes to produce a certain
illusion, and then that is abandoned at a breath to
satisfy the players’ vanity. (The really earnest
playgoer shuts his eyes nowadays, so as not to
lose the haunting memory of a fine stage-
picture.) Perhaps it is not exactly vanity, but
just the influence of a bad custom. Players will
tell you that audiences insist on it; but they only
insist because they know that the players take
that as the supreme compliment; they could soon
be taught not to insist. If the artists really must
bow to the public, why not let them do as always
was done till recently—come out in front of the
curtain? There they are individuals, not dra-
matic characters revelling on the scene of their
own death or mental agony. There is one co. in
Australia (playing derided third-rate melodrama)
the members whereof have the love of their art,
and continue to “ hold the picture ” when taking
a “call.” But one isn’t many.
The Bulletin said this (25/3/’O9) concerning’ “She
Stoops to Conquer” (Sydney Criterion): — “ The Criterion
production may be described as the joint work of O.
Goldsmith and that well-known old sporting identity,
A. N. Other. It were futile to attempt to conceal the
fact that Other, as an improver on Goldsmith, is a
disappointment.” And then it proceeded to quote trans-
positions, puns, and interpolations that it considered
would pain Goldsmith if he knew about them. Swiftly
arrived the following from the producer of the play
“ Dear Bulletin, —Blame those incomparable and glori-
ous real comedians, Buckstone and Chas. Mathews,'etc.,
for the gags you object to in ‘She Stoops to Con-
quer.’ Because your critic has never seen the present
arrangement, it scarcely follows it is wrong. If he had
travelled, instead of confining his excursion to Gold-
smith, he would have seen this version played by
America’s late foremost comedian. Art = Empty
theatres, vide Brough-Boucicault dictionary. No. Art =
Crammed house, vide the rest.—Yours, A. N. Other.”
It doesn’t strike this paper as much •of a justification.
The writer of the notice to which “A. N. Other ” objects
has travelled in most parts of the civilised globe, and
wherever he has been he has gone to the play. And so
he has arrived at the unshakable conviction that the
most futile, exasperating-, inartistic mutilators of
works of dramatic genius that this planet holds
are “incomparable and glorious real comedians.”
Gilbert has always taken up the attitude that, so long as
he owns a revolver and the ability to hold it straight, no
comedian, however incomparable, shall insert “ gags ”
into or take any other liberty with his librettos. He has
thus avoided having foolish quips of the “sheep’s
brains—you'll need them ” order saddled on his
blameless intellect. What discriminating- playgoer
doubts that even the gentle Goldsmith would
follow Gilbert’s spirited and perfectly justifiable lead if
he were alive to-day? But perhaps The Bulletin and
“ A.N. Other ” are at cross-purposes, after all. Says
“ A.N. Other ”:
Art = Empty Theatres.
No Art = Crammed Houses.
Which reads like an admission of guilt or something.
The Bulletin set out to discuss “A.N. Other’s” pro-
duction on the assumption that it was intended to be
Art. If it wasn’t, if it was frankly meant to be no more
than a mere “No-Art Show” of the shekel-pouching
brand, this paper has simply to say (1) that the show has
doubtless been a howling financial success, and (2) that a
“ No-Art production ” was all The Bulletin ever accused
it of being.
Will Dyson, the caricaturist, who also writes a fair
round hand, collaborated with Randolph Bedford in the
making of his scare drama, “ For Australia,” which is
being rushed ahead for early production at Anderson’s
Melbourne House. The plot of the play was supplied by
the artist, and the drama was sawn and hammered and
nailed together in record time. It had to be, for a whole
terrace of playwrights were tearing things to meet the
local demand for a play on lines soniewhat similar to
those of “An Englishman’s Home.” “For Australia” is
expected to be thrown open to the public within a
month. Already half the roof is on the play, and the
verandah and tank are nearly finished, also the dog-
kennel.
Nellie Stewart, although she photographs as well as
ever, is much thinner than she has been within the
memory of admirers. “An actress must be thin to wear
the fashionable gown,” we are told. In London the stage
lady who is not built for a sheath or a directoire costume
has a poor show. The unfit are all those who won’t fit a
robe like an eelskin.
Ada Ward, the Salvation lassie, who has determined to
go back to the stage, is, it seems, to appear only in the very
purest plays, and she will only do that with the object of
raising the fallen, elevating the drama, and inspiring the
profession with the most sacred Christian ideals. The
saved star is under engagement to coruscate in a gospel-
play now being manufactured to the order of William
Anderson. When Ada and her abettor (the author) have
converted Anderson’s company and his audiences, the
evangelist will start revivals in other theatres. She
seems to be sanguine of converting everybody but the
managers.
“ Theorbo ” : Of profound interest to Catholics all over
Australia is the Pope’s ukase upon the music of the mass.
Pius X. distinctly orders plain Gregorian masses, and
condemns the masses of such as Mozart, Haydn, Weber,
Gounod and Guilmant as operatic. As Patriarch of Venice
his ears were shocked by the music in St. Mark’s, the
Giudecca and the Redentore, and he must have often
protested to Leo XIIL, who was a Gallio, caring for none
of these things. Pius X. is a musician, and not to be
humbugged. Yet, in making his Gregorian order, he was
blankly ignorant of the conditions in Australia, or, indeed,
anywhere outside Italy. Hardly any Australian churches
have a Gregorian library, and there are not supplies for
them. Still, the scandal in Italy has been very great,
with the Church turned into an opera house.
“ Leo,” the largest and oldest, and also the dreariest
and most dyspeptic-looking lion in Australia, escaped to
the jungles of Elysium last week. In life deceased was
the property of Baker's Circus, and for infant-horrifying
purposes he was well worth the £lO5 that he cost. His
hide fetched £8 —a paltry sum when one considers that
the hide of a State Premier brings the owner in far more
than that yearly.
Dramatic soprano Elsie Davis, sometime student at
Melbourne’s University Conservatorium, threatens to be
a conspicuous bloom in the musical garden of Europe.
She left Melbourne for Italy about four years ago. Thence
she tripped to Stockholm, where concert-singers hold
forth with the aid of expensive frocks and considerable
limelight. Under Henneborg, Sweden’s chief director of
opera, the dramatic Elsie’s soprano took the house and
shook it to its foundations ; and Continental papers have
been urging Elsie to march on London and put a match
to the Thames.-
“Melb.”: “ The French Spy ” is produced at the Mel-
bourne King’s Theatre. Celeste acted the part of the
Spy more often than any other. Her name was Elliott.
After a training at the Conservatoire, she appeared on
the Parisian stage, and even had a small character in a
play with the great Talma. However, it was as a dancer
that she first won celebrity. She was a rival of Lola
Montez and the precursor of Lydia Thompson. In America
she was immensely successful. There she married Elliott.
Going to England, she continued her success, though she
knew scarcely a word of the John Bull language. Her
dramatic talents were evoked in the part of Fenella, the
dumb girl, in “ Masaniello.” Then as the French Spy she
hit hard. A piece called “The Child of the Wreck ” was
written for her in London, and was highly popular. In it was
another dumb girl. Buckstone was inspired to write his
“Green Bushes,” that tremendous draw at the Adelphi,
so that Celeste might play Mami. As Cynthia, in Buck-
stone’s “ Flowers of the Forest,” she was great, too. It is
remarkable that in 40 years of the London stage, off and
on, her English pronunciation improved so little. Play-
goers came to relish her amazing French accent as a
thing of beauty. Coppin engaged her for Australia. She
was pretty old in the tooth then. However, her perform-
ances in “The French Spy,” “Green Bushes,” “The
Woman in Red,” “ Like and Unlike,” and “Abbe
Vaudrevil” were splendid. She was the original Mrs.
Cregan, in “ The Colleen Bawn,” for a few nights.
“Micawber”: Re Chung Ling Soo, the conjurer, now
in Melbourne. Firstly, his name is Robertson. As to
his mother being a Cantonese, it is quite likely, for there
is unmistakably a strain of Chow in this clever con-
jurer. Robertson assisted Chung Ling Foo in the
latter’s original entertainment, and, after an interval,
broke out with an act of his own—a burlesque on Foo’s.
Foo, being a great boom in London at the time (1897 or
thereabouts), Robertson’s skit appealed to the public
taste. Then it was that he conceived the idea of eclipsing
Foo altogether. Being a fine showman, Robertson put
on a much bigger scenic act than the original fakir, with
the result that Foo was hit hard. Next came a wordy
newspaper correspondence, that cost both parties a pile
of money. Foo declared that Soo was not a genuine
Chinaman, and, inter alia, stated that the brilliant
raiment worn by Soo proved the truth of the assertion.
“For,” said Foo, “if he were in China, he (Soo) would
immediately be seized and placed in a hole in the ground,
up to his neck, when the ants would eat him alive, as he
is wearing the clothes of royalty.” Then came a
brilliant rejoinder by Robertson : “Foo knows that I am
a member of the highest family in Europe, therefore I am
perfectly justified in wearing these particular garments.”
This was practically the coup de grdce for Foo. Still he
struggled on for a while. Challenges were issued and
taken up, and the “ Scotch-Chow” came out top dog.
“Exlex” : The proposed Australian Dread-
nought gift reminds me of the prodigal who, on
Christmas Eve, sent his old man the following
wire:—“Hope all well—merry Xmas. Order
case of beer and put it down to me—collect.”
W. L. Neale, the S. Australian who, a
few years back, was appointed Director of Educa-
tion in Tasmania, has been severely keel-hauled
by a Commission appointed to inquire into his
way of running the department; all but the
Maoriland member of the Commission agree that
the department would be the better for the
Director's resignation. Neale formed so poor
an opinion of the Tasmanian home-grown teacher
that he filled most of the available good l places in
the service with S. Australians, trained in the
same school as he was himself. Between that and
his own aggressive and self-satisfied manner,
the untiringly-energetie little man made a host of
enemies, and they have managed to drag him
under at last.
“Daisy Fly Killer,” which has been advertised
for a number of years, is undoubtedly the best, most
hygienic and most artistic of fly exterminators on the
market. It saves you the discomfort of the stickiness of
fly papers and hangers, etc., Can be obtained of all
storekeepers, or direct from Mr. Harold Somers, 149 de
Kalb Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
WAR SONG.
(For the music-hall stage.)
[For The Bulletin.]
Sing a song o’ Hempire
Mother’s took a fit,
Nasty Germans buildin’ ships,
An’ never mentioned it.
Buildin’ beastly warships,
Quite a tidy few ;
Mother’s got an awful start;
Baby’s got it too.
The King was in the Customs House,
But couldn’t find a penny ;
The Lords were at their country seats
And didn’t offer any ;
A millyun paupers mooned about
With nothin’ much to eat,
When down comes Australyer
With a Dreadnought fer the fleet.
Sing a song o’ Warships,
’Orrid ole Butoze,
Layin’down ’is Dreadnoughts
An’ didn’t let us know —
Didn’t advertise it,
Till the Cablegram
Spread the awful tidings
An’ the Hempire shouted, “ Damn 1”
A reely, trooly battleship,
With guns an’ things galore,
And splendid sails of calico
From MacMillan’s store—
The Stock Exchange will float it
On a sea of gush.
Wot’s two millyun quid to us ?
We don’t care a rush !
(But—whisper—little mother,
If, later on, some day,
We want ter sorter float a loan,
To ’elp us on our way—
Borrer of it back, like—
After wot ’as passed,
Don’t you go an’ crool our pitch,
Like you did the last.)
Sing a song o’ Britain’s fleet
(’Ow the Tories raged !)
That’s goin’ to guard Australyer
(If not otherwise engaged).
Sing of ’Umpty Dumpty—
’lm that ’ad the fall.
Rob Australian Peter
To pay old Hinglish Paul.
Sing o’ topsy-turvey ;
Sing of inside-out,
Of back-to-front and upside-down
An’ t’other way about.
Spend ten bloomin’ millyun,
Buy yer ships galore,
An’ send them all to Hingland
To guard Australyer’s shore.
Sing a song o’ Hempire !
We’ve got ter guard “ the heart.”
If it gets a limb lopped off,
That ain’t a vital part.
Learn ter think Imperially ;
Shriek with courage grim ;
Fer “ the heart ” must be protected—
Tho’ it’s tough if we’re the limb.
Sing a song o’ Hempire,
Mother’s up a tree ;
But the Melbourne Stock Exchange
’As swore to set 'er free.
Does the German caitiff
Build upon the sly ?
Then seventeen suburban may’rs
Will know the reason why !
Seventeen suburban may’rs
Of the Bulldog Breed
Fly to succor Hingland
In her hour of need.
What of “ Constant Reader ”?
“ Pro Bono Publico ” ?
Will “ Subscriber” see old Hingland
No!!
VICTORIA.
DKN.


H
FOR THE MAN
WHO RIDES.
'HU Boot illustrated is con-
structed with the idea of
being- a really strong, com-
fortable, good - wearing Riding
Boot. We maintain that it fulfils
its mission to perfection.
It is made of best French
Calf—alight, durable leather that
gives with the movements of the
feet.
With Welted Soles and Medium
Square Toes. In all sizes.
PRICE 17/6 PAIR.
We send these Boots carriage
paid throughout the Common-
wealth.
Let us send you a pair on the
understanding that should they
on receipt not prove entirely satis-
factory, they may be returned,
and purchase money will be re-
funded.
David Jones Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Ĥ
THE “COERZ-ANSCHUTZ”
FOLDING CAMERA.
AN IDEAL CAMERA for Tourists, Travellers, and all wishing: a High-Class Camera, in
a Compact, Light, and Quickly-Adjusted Si.vie. An entirely New Model. The Speeds
of the Focal Plane Shutter working automatically from l/1200th of a second up to 5
second. The Lens is the
The New Improvements in this Excellent Camera must commend it to the most critical.
Users of it are charmed by its efficiency and adaptability. _ Though Extremely Light, no
quality is sacrificed. Everything that Science could give has been added to this
SUPERB CAMERA.
Price, including Lens, Shutter, Three Double-Dark Slides, and Velvet-Lined Carrying Case,
x 3/izin.
(Post Card Size)
£lB/15/-
Com-
plete.
x
(i-Plate)
£23
Com-
plete.
C. P. QOERZ, ~o£ LONDON, E.C.,S,SffiJf£.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George St. (near G.P.0.), Sydney; 179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Society
THE TEMPTATION.
THE CONFIRMED SMOKER: “Gam, tale one, and
be sick —like a MAN.”
Wild, one of the members of Shackleton’s
South Pole-hunting party, fell, along with a pony,
down a snow-eovered crack in the Antarctic ice.
They hauled him out just as he was slipping away
into an abyss that, for all practical purposes, was
bottomless, though the pony had to be abandoned
to the cold storage. The call of the Wild was pro-
bably the closest during the expedition, which got
to within 97 miles of the southern end of things ;
but Brocklehurst, the blue-blood of the party,
ran almost a dead heat with Wild. He was
getting out of his sleeping bag, and apparently
jumped out of bed with less circumspection
than the case called for ; wherefore his tempera-
ture fell so rapidly that the expedition had an
almost wholly frozen baronet on its hands. A
baronet, it seems, goes almost jet-black when
frozen ; and Brocklehurst was the color of Mister
Johnson from the soles of his feet to a good way up
both legs. Fortunately they were handy to one
of the innumerable craters of those parts, and
glissading several thousand feet down into the
cone they got into another climate, where
the partly-frozen man was thawed off. To
a great extent the operation was a success;
but the doctor had to take out his chloro-
form bag and hew off one big toe. Apart
from Brooklehurst’s toe. the whole party got
back to Maoriland ; and by the time this is in
print, provided the Maheno does its duty, Aus-
tralia’s chief contribution to the party—Professor
David, the plucky 51-year-old geologist of Sydney
University—will be among his undergrads, who
have been waiting for him with applause in both
hands.
* » * *
The amazing rush of the Shackleton
expedition for the South Pole has upset geography
badly. The South Pole is quite a new fresh
upstart among Poles. The Danes were groping
towards- the North 1000 years back, and
Norwegians, Swedes and Russians looked
in at the Arctic Circle when modern
History was still in knickerbockers. The
real hard struggle for the North Pole started
nearly 400 years ago, and the list of expeditions
fills columns. Yet the last and greatest effort
of all only brought the “Farthest North” men
within about 200 miles of their destination. And
now the neglected South Pole gets a show
and Shackleton’s men got within 95 miles of it—
apparently if they had had just one more pony to
eat they would have really got there. This sort
of thing is calculated to make the South Pole
fashionable, and the chances are that there will
presently be a whole procession going for it,
while its old, moth-eaten northern relative drops
back into obscurity.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Marine Court is at times a
contribution to the aggregate joy of nations. The
row that followed its decision in the Dunmore
case, in which a captain had his certificate sus-
pended apparently because he kept the right
course and followed the regulations to the letter,
seems to have got on its nerves and given it the
jumps badly. Its latest trouble was over a
steamer which bolted across Darling Harbor,
Sydney, and tried to leap right into Pyrmont.
The first conclusion arrived at was that the second
engineer had mixed up his orders and started the
ship out on a headlong and unauthorised career,
so the functionary was ordered to show cause.
Then came the final decision (daily paper report):
In view of the fact that the Court thinks that the error
made was simply a mistake on the part of the second
engineer, and that the Court does not find that he was in
fact guilty of carelessness, and as Tim Court also con-
siders THAT THERE MAY BE SOME DOUBT OF THE CORRECT-
NESS OF THE CONCLUSION AT WHICH IT HAS ARRIVED as to
the cause of the collision, under the very peculiar circum-
stances of the case the certificate of the second engineer
will be returned to him.
The same sort of thing might be paraphrased in a
criminal case somewhat on these lines :
Prisoner at the bar ! You have been found guilty of a
most brutal murder without extenuating circumstances,
and the sentence of this Court is that you be hanged by
the neck until you are quite dead, and then buried inside
the precincts of the gaol, and may the Lord have mercy
on your soul. At the same time, takinginto account the
fact that no one saw you do the murder, and the body
hasn’t been found, and nobody seems to be missing, and
nothing is known against you, the sentence will not be
carried out. Therefore you can leave the court imme-
diately without a stain on your character, if you have a
character, on which point the Court has grave doubts. At
the same time, owing to the very peculiar circumstances
of the case, the Court invites you to lunch with it.
* * * *
The story of an amazingly promiscuous
couple was the other day narrated to the Bendigo
(Yic.) beaks in a subdued tone of voice by an
equally amazing wife. The lady, who was suing
for maintenance, explained that she had been per-
vading the local Chows’ camp when the defendant
married her, and that immediately after the cere-
mony she returned to the camp for a space. This
was in 1894; and, though the pair subsequently
lived together in Gippsland, she had frequently
left him, and had finally quitted his premises
three years ago. This narrative brought her little
sympathy ; but she got less when it transpired
that she had another husband away back in 1876,
and also one Ah Soon, or Too Soon, or something
similar in between the two white contracts ; and
that both these previous partners were still alive
“ somewhere.” The Court was dubious about
troubling the defendant for his version ; still, he
insisted on owning up that he also had recently
married another wife. At this point the Court
felt that its morals were being shocked, and shooed
the pair away.
A CONVERT TO SOCIALISM.
FAT LANDLORD (to his clerk): "Ha! I see that the people are likely to get cheap fish and
fruit now that the municipal authorities are going to sell the goods. A grand thing.
this, my boy. We must put up the rents."
The port of Melbourne these times is like
a room with a scarcity of chairs. It has abundance
of space, but not enough accommodation. Indeed,
there is only one pier where the weary and foot-
sore steamer of girth can rest and stow fodder.
That is the railway pier, and it frequently happens
—or is beginning to’ happen frequently—that its
space is all used up by tubs with enormous waist-
bands, with the result that “ Standing Room
Only ” has to be hung out on the pier head for the
information of other corpulent loiterers. For in-
stance, when the huge White Star liner Medic
attempted to clamber into Melbourne’s front
room on a recent date, it found all the berths
occupied by stout, portly forms, and had to wait
outside all night, leaning up against the smell of
a large, thick ebb-tide. Now that sort of thing is
becoming familiar and dreadful, like bell-toppers
and platitudes, and demands are made that there
should be more berths or, at any rate, less steamers.
And as there are not likely to be less steamers,
there will have to be more berths.
« • * *
The precipice upon which Owe’Sullivan’s
alleged Sydney Central Station is built is mostly
artificial precipice— i.e. , the precipice was humped
there in carts at a large expenditure of bad
language and borrowed money. Sydney has per-
force to scale so many natural precipices that even
such a short-sighted person as Owe’Sullivan
should have been able to see the foolish-
ness of piling up an unnatural one for
it to wear its boots and feet out on. But Owe’Sul-
livan didn’t, and now the question that is wearing
Sydney engineers to walking shadows is : “What
should be done to make the foolishness that
Owe’Sullivan couldn’t see a little less of a
nightmare?” Architect Norman Selfe has been
wrestling long and wearily with the problem of
Owe’Sullivan’s unnecessary precipice, and recently
he told the Sydney Improvement Commission that
at length he had hatched out a scheme that might
do. His scheme was to raise Elizabeth-street from
Goulburn-street to Foveaux-street on the east, so
that people could get to the top of the precipice
without climbing on their hands and knees ; and
to uplift Pitt-street on the west from Goulburn to
George-streets, so that the worried populace
needn’t requisition balloons on that side. Then
Belmore Park, which lies in the fork between the
station and Pitt and Elizabeth streets, would
have to be filled up to the level of Owe’Sullivan’s
precipice to make things a bit even like. The
Selfe scheme involves a fearful amount of dis-
turbance and humping round of good landscape,
but, perhaps, pending the arrival of aeroplanes or
aerial ’buses, it is as good a scheme as any for
getting over the superfluous cliff that Owe’Sullivan
built. Of course, there’s the other alternative—•
to pull Owe’Sullivan’s blessed “Central’’ station
down and build it where it would be a Central
station.
When the Commonweath takes over the
administration of old-age pensions next July, it
will remove one of the minor afflictions of the
Victorian State system. Under the scheme of
the lately-Bent State, the poor old people who
applied for pensions were forced to transfer'their
last mite of property to a paternal Government
before they entered into the blessed enjoyment
of a few shillings per week. (This was faintly
suggestive of an old English custom. In bygone
days, a husband, in a general way, had to take
over the debts incurred by his wife before
marriage, yet this could be avoided, and both
parties become free of the lady’s pre-marital debts,
if she went to the altar with nothing on save one
under garment. Then after the ceremony she
was dressed in clothes provided by her hus-
band, and started life afresh. The Victorian
State Government didn’t allow the single
under-garment, but otherwise the two systems
were somewhat alike—only with a difference.)
Now the Federal Government is going to start
paying pensions, and it doesn’t want any part of
the scraps of property which the State Govern-
ment screwed out of the aged and infirm. At the
same time the State. Government stops paying
pensions, and as it took the little bits of sundries
from the venerables on the ground that it was
going to keep on paying pensions, it seems a
fair thing to give the odds and ends back to the
derelicts. The Murray Ministry is said To be
considering the matter.
* * * *
The Broken Hill men miss W. J. Fergu-
son. The last big strike dragged for five months ;
but, until they gaoled him, Ferguson’s supply of
humor, home-grown and borrowed, never ran out.
During every mine strike one of the things that
are reckoned indispensable is a mass meeting
every day ; and as mostly the same men have to
talk to the same crowd, the toil of filling in time
becomes harder than gouging out sulphides. In
the present strike, or lock-out, or shut-
down, or whatever it is, the men haven’t
got any W. J. Ferguson ; so as the crowd
can’t be kept going with humorous anecdotes, the
committee struggles to whip up interest with
ideas, and its stock of presentable ideas is getting
so low that some weird things are exhibited now-
adays. The most fluent of the regular speakers
brought down the house the other day with the
theory that law courts ought to be abolished,
because they were instruments of class oppression.
After he had fervidly elaborated the idea, a small
voice at the back snapped the thread with, “ I’m
afraid we can’t do it in a month, Billy.” Then
the crowd remembered that “Billy” had been
committed to take his trial inside a month on a
charge of destroying a railway line—an offence for
which the penalty runs up to as high as imprison-
ment for life.
THE UPROARIOUS BUT INDISPENSABLE BABY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Reuter’s Paris correspondent reports that the difficulties
of M. Caillaux, French Minister of Finance, are increasing-
owing to the stationary population, and the constantly
augmented burdens. The actual deficit is £2,500,000.
The Estimates for the coming year foreshadow an extra
£19,000,000, to be raised by taxation. Cable.
Lord ! how he yells !
How that blessed baby yells !
And he seems to do his breathing- as his clamor sinks and
swells
And he gurgles, and he wheezes,
And he chokes, and snorts, and sneezes,
And he wrinkles up his face, and shrieks as loudly as he
pleases
And, ’mid yells—yells—yells,
His young, doting mother tells
That her precious pet is teething
(Hear the maddened lodgers seething
Down below ?)
Oh ! confound the blessed baby !
Yes, of course ! But later, maybe,
He will help to pay off Cohenstein and 00. 1
Lord ! how he shrieks !
How that awful baby shrieks !
Oh, I’ll take my oath that racket has been going on for
weeks!
Why the blazes can’t his mother
Slap the little wretch ? I’d smother
Any child of mine that hollered like a maniac ! O brother,
Hear the yells—yells—yells !
Ev’ry married man who dwells
With his wife and baby, daily
Has to stand that uproar gaily,
Else 'tis said
That he “ never should have married ” !
(By papa the burthen’s carried
That will save the land when bachelors are dead.)
Lord bless his yells !
Bless his new and fervent yells !
But it’s rough upon the neighbors, and his parents he
expels
From their small, suburban heaven ;
Oh ! the baby is the leaven
That will make a whole street rise in wrath and curse at
Number Seven !
But the yells—yells—yells
Are the Future’s chiming bells ;
They’re the bells of sweet salvation,
And the old and weary nation
That can’t hear,
Lo ! its funeral approaches
With the hearse and mourning-coaches,
And its grave is gaping wide and very near.
n.s.w.
THE REGISTRAR.


SCIENTIFIC OPINION.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F I.C., F.C.S.
Public Analyst, of Sydney, adds his testi-
mony to that of other scientific men on the
PU ,™J °f Sunlight Soap, He reports:—
Having analysed samples of Sunlight
oOap, purchased on open market, we have
p easure in attesting to the especial purity
of Sunlight Soap. Sunlight Soap is evi-
dently manufactured under close chemical
supervision, for we find it to contain no un-
saponified fat, no free alkali, and to be a well
made soap. There is no adulteration what-
ever. Sunlight Soap has the healthy, clean
sme of refined fats and oils, and is a good
genuine laundry soap. Whilst it cannot
iniure the finest fabric nor the skin, yet i»
will do its work thoroughly.”
«*»
1
1
JJ
V
A New Style in
Autumn Shirts.
It is better to pay just a little more and have
a distinctive style in your dressing. Our
Negligee Shirts for Autumn are in new and
very exclusive patterns—grounds in greens,
greys and heliotropes with mostly white
stripes. The material is in light Crimean
Flannel, giving nice warmth without increased
weight. With turned-down collar, winch car.
be detached to enable you to wear white
collar if desired, and with gauntlet cuffs.
We can also supply them with band cuffs,
ar«d neckband fbr starched collar. We made
these shirts in our own workroom, and can
certify to their being well sewn and perfectly
finished.
Prices : 7/6 each. Add 6d. for postage.
PEAPES & COL, LTD.,
“Men's Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Last week, during sewerage operations
near the back of the G.P.O. in Little Bourke-
street, Melbourne, the contractor struck a snag in
the long-buried remains of an old corduroy road.
This road, made of red-gum logs, was laid down
in Melbourne’s very early days, when that part of
thatown, after heavy rain, was a raging torrent,
and was generally known as Sheoak Gully. New-
chum investors, who bought land at the boom
sales of those dim days, generally had to be rowed
MISUNDER.
STOOD.
SHE : “W hy, dear, I
thought you lucre never
coming. I’ve been hugging solitude for a
quarter of an hour.”
ELDERLY CECESUS : “ Hum! Sorry to have
frightened him away.”
out to their allotments in a boat. “It’s down
there, sir ! ” the guide would say, pointing to
where a surging torrent was dashing towards the
river. Land in Collins-street East was most
sought after at that time. The old road, when
unearthed at a depth of about 3ft., was found to
be in a splendid state of preservation : the red-
gum logs were blackened with the continual
damp, but inside they were perfectly sound.
ANOTHER CASE OF THE GIRL WHO WANTS TO BE A MAN.
IRASCIBLE GENTLEMAN ( who has been trying the mixed bathing): “Mixed bathing be hanged!
You see a ladies’ picnic-party coming; make a rush to get dressed quickly; find that some
woman’s run away with your togs an’ left her own blank blankely
blank” (He said a lot more, but it caught fire and got burnt.)
This, from Melbourne Argus (10/3/’O9),
is just the usual advt. :
GARDENER, young active man, competent, wanted,
good with flowers, lawns, and vegetables,
married, without encumbrance, must be thoroughly
trustworthy. Apply by letter, enclosing testimonials,
to Mrs. Mills, Dalmeny, Heyington-place, Toorak.
This country is full of people of the
Tooralc and Darling Point persuasion
—full of rich squatters and rich
owners of big mansions—who com-
plain about what they call “ the de-
clining birth-rate.” And it is also
full of people of the Toorak and
Darling Point persuasion, and of
rich squatters and rich owners of
big mansions who, in their adver-
tisements, describe the Australian
child as an “ encumbrance,” and
who won’t give the young Aus-
tralian working man a billet
unless his infant has been
murdered after birth, or
measures have been taken to
murder it before birth, or
unless it has been put out of
the way by being taken from
its mother’s care and handed
over to a nurse—and the
chances of the infant that
is put out to nurse are
pretty well known. Pro-
vidence apparently meant
the healthy, vigorous,
intelligent woman to
be a wife and the
mother of four child-
ren. If anyone col-
lected for a single year
the advertisements
that appear in Austra-
lian papers for young,
childless couples, and
multiplied the number
of these advertisements
by four, he would arrive
at a fairly-acourate estimate
of the number of children
who are murdered, or pro-
spectively murdered, by the
people who insist that there
must be “no encumbrance.”
And when he had sized up
the full horror of this slaughter
of the innocents he would pro-
bably decide that the only thing
calculated to fit the person who
calls a child an “encumbrance”
) is three months in gaol with hard
labor. And the same thing would
about fit the owner of the paper in
which the disgraceful advt. was pub-
lished.
The “ awfu’ example ” was witnessed
in Adelaide, recently, of the Scotchbyterian
Church protesting against the decision of the
Tram Trust not to run electric cars on Sunday
mornings. The Trades and Labor Council upheld
the action of the Trust; but quite a number of
parsons, in the interest of the city churches and
the collection-plates, were adverse. Hotels and
trams are the strictest Sabbatarians in Adelaide
at present; the parsons come in a bad last.
* * * *
Geelong (Vic.) is these days a proud town-
ship, or graveyard, or whatever it is. It seems
that during the visit of the American Fleet a
“ well-known local citizen ” discussed with other
well-known local citizens the idea of presenting a
Dreadnought to Great Britain, and the other
well-known local citizens cordially approved of it.
Among them they subscribed twopence, and
wrote letters to the Argus and the Age offering
the idea to those papers. But the papers were
not just then in need of any new ideas ; the visit
of the Fleet was keeping the circulation up;
and when the Fleet was gone Bent was still
good enough to go on with. So the editors
wrote back to the gentlemen who had put up the
tuppence, and told them to get work, or words to
that effect. Now, however, the Fleet has gone,
and Bent has gone, and nobody has murdered
anybody in frightful circumstances demanding a
picture with an x to indicate where the blood was
found; so the editors have remembered the idea
that came from Geelong, and have stolen it and
used it, and Geelong, though it feels a little hurt,
nevertheless also feels proud. Geelong has so
little to feel proud of that even the suspicion that
it once fathered a mad idea makes it glow.
A succession of colds or a protracted cold
is almost certain to end in chronic catarrh, from
which few persons ever wholly recover. Give
every cold the attention it deserves and you may
avoid this disagreeable disease. How can you
cure a cold ? Why not try Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy? It is highly recommended.*
There was an awkward pause during the
sittings of Melbourne Criminal Court, last week,
when Justice Hood suddenly interrupted the un-
pleasant proceedings to ask Finlayson, K.C., a
question. Information had reached his Honor that
the police knew the receiver of the money which
two women some time ago violently wrested from a
clergyman in front of the Federal Coffee Palace.
The two women had been convicted and were now
awaiting sentence ; if his Honor’s information
was correct, why had not the police arrested the
man? And Finlayson, K.C., bowed and said he
would have inquiries made into the matter. Then
the matter dropped for the time being. A day or
so afterwards two constables attended and in-
formed the Judge that they had inquired into the
affair and reported to their inspector, but were
informed that there was not sufficient evidence
against the alleged receiver. The languid police
investigation then appears to have stumbled
over a bit of fluff and broken its neck.
Later, another aspect of the case turned up.
Some time subsequent to the robbery the victim
asked a magistrate for a warrant for the arrest of
a certain man. He had been a former partner of
one of the she-thieves, and was believed to be the
man to whom she was seen to pass the stolen
wallet. The warrant was refused, and thus inves-
tigation was turned off at the meter. Justice
Hood, having arrived at this legal blind alley,
remarked that he thought there had been a mis-
carriage of justice somewhere, and said the whole
affair was most unsatisfactory. An independent
investigation seemed to be badly wanted. The
position at present is that three members of the
Melbourne police have given that body a certifi-
cate of good character, which a learned Judge has
accepted with very evident reluctance. The Vic-
torian force so seldom makes an arrest nowadays—
except when it arrests public attention by its in-
competence —that its own certificate is the only
one it is likely to get these times.
* * * *
“ J.” holdeth forth :
I see that the Government intends buying “ Brock’s
Mansion ” at Mona Vale. The idea is to turn it into a
home for convalescents from the State lunatic asylums.
If I didn’t know the Governtnent was humorless and
afflicted with a chronic solemnity, I should suspect it of
joking. The Mansion is indeed a weird place. The main
part of it is on a hill. On entering the front door one is
confronted with an immense majolica mantelpiece that
once belonged to Larry Foley. Why Laurence parted
with the gem I know not. I should have thought that
once having imposed his hooks on that gorgeous mass
of furniture Larry would have cleaved to it till death
tore them asunder. Countless nooks and cosy corners
dart out of all the downstairs rooms. The dining-room is
one of the few apartments between Manly and Barrenjoey
that owns a dais—it is there in case anyone in the royalty
line pays a call. Immediately beneath the ballroom of the
mansion are the stables. They are octagonal in shape.
Above the ballroom is the grand stand, wherefrom may
be obtained an excellent view of the racecourse. The
racecourse is a right good one; so is the polo
ground which lies in the middle of it. Brock
meant, originally, to make a sort of club of the
place. He "was a little before his time. In these motor-
ing days such an institution, well run, would, I think,
boom immensely. When the place was in an embryonic
state, I have visited the hospitable originator of it,
scoured wildly about the polo-ground on a 14-hand pony
in pursuit of an elusive white ball, circumnavigated the
track a few times on another steed, repaired to the
ocean beach near at hand, and there surf-bathed ; tum-
bled into a two-bowed whaleboat, and put out to a
schnapper ground ; got very sick, caught innumerable
fish, returned, surf-bathed, dined upon our prey', and
finally been driven back behind four horses at full
gallop to the place whence I had come—all within a
single afternoon. I don’t know any other place in N.S.W.
that affords as many facilities for loafing without bore-
dom as Brock’s delightful and bizarre estate does. The
asylum convalescent that gets there will be in a bad way
if he doesn’t reckon himself in luck.
THE SONG OF THE HAMMERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Federal Government has ordered two destroyers.—
Pews item.
Rivet, and bolt, and plate ;
The hammers of destiny ring
On the resonant steel of the first-laid keel,
And this is the song they sing.
Sons of the Viking race,
Your hand is set to the plough ;
There is no return to the ways ye spurn,
For the gods have heard your vow.
The hammers of destiny ring,
Rivet, and bolt, and plate,
Till your latest breath, come wrath, come death,
The sea-way shall hold your fate.
For History writes to-day.
And her page with light is crowned,
Of the great deed done and the task begun
When a nation her soul has found.
The mightiest Isle of earth
Shall thrill in the days to be
At the challenge made in the first keel laid
For the ward of Australia’s sea.
Though the ships ye build be few,
Ye have chosen to stand alone,
In the far-heard voice of your larger choice.
Is the mind of a nation known.
Though the ships ye build be few,
After them cometh a fleet,
And ye shall not fear for the thunder-year
When the white and the brown shall meet.
Rivet, and bolt, and plate,
The hammers of destiny clang,
And the kings of the sea in the days to be
Shall be proud of the songs they sang.
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Tan Sara : Yes, the Rev. Shirley Baker made
himself Premier of Tonga ; but Thurston, with a British
gunboat at his back, eventually deported the chokered
gentleman Farden :It would be very good poetry (1)
if it would scan, (2) if it would rhyme, and (3) if sense
could be made of it. Some poetry is obscure, but you
can’t make poetry by chopping up a dictionary and
letting the words drop out like bone-dust from a drill
G.8.H.: “Solomon” is right off our beat Southern
Cross: Try some paper that runs a “ Children’s Page.”
G.M. : Good as a descriptive sketch, but we don’t
hanker for descriptive sketches Y.B. : “My First
Waltz ” reads like it. For instance :
In the ballroom bright, ’neath the hanging light,
My arm around her, so —
My Beatrice fair and Beatrice rare
I balance as we go.
And then the swing, ’tis “ just the thing,”
So lightly she touches the floor,
Keeping time to the music’s chime,
Pressing me more and more.
....W.M.W. : Too crude; might have been built into a good
story Batcher: “Troubadour” very flat. Please
write to manager about use of illustration in question....
G.B.H. : Quite out of our line, and badly done anyhow...
Jacq. : “Hamlet" good; other rather too hifalutin...
Embassy B. : A sample sentence from “The Experi-
ment”: “ ‘ We have solved one great question,’ he con-
tinued, mockingly, ‘as “Pro Bono Publico” would say
re Plutonic love.”’ Now, what is Plutonic love, any-
how? Muse : Lines are from Charles Kingsley’s “Fare-
well.” Nugarea: Your facts are awry. F’rinstance,
one Young, and not Dick Donovan, wrote “Jim the Pen-
man.”. .. Thoroid : If you would only write a little more
distinctly, all might be well. For instance, this is the
best we can make of the first verse :
Those days gom, by Lord now we soured
A little gaunt no doubt was on both adders
For whom at your marsh wards my mad L bowed
You pallid him with an urn—oh Shanghai Washington.
N.E.M.: Too suggestive of Steele Rudd. Also, if you
are a bushie, you should know that the business end of
a bull-ant is not what you call its “ proboscis.”... .Spencer
P.: Reasonably good, but a bit off Tub Bulletin track
Horace Maurice: First-rate “Inky Way" idea poorly
carried out Netherby: “Sunset” only failed by a
point or two; “Brown Eyes” hopeless Darley: Too
frail a y’arn C.E.D. : “’Twixt the Wings” is very in-
genious rhyming, but unsuitable ; other held for
consideration M. : Fair bit of melodrama in an out-
rageous fist, like a spider in spasms....A.F.B. : Pub
and cheque yarn has been told to death J.L. M. :No ;
we do not print prophecies, not even ones that have been
fulfilled... .F.F.L. : “ Pure and Simple ” jest is very old.
The founder of the Queensbery Rules was one of the first
to protest that he might be pure, but he was blanked if he
was simple... B. Peters : “ The Fear of Death ”is the most
insufferable sort of moral verse. Nuff said... .W, Booch :
Bring the yarn along... .C.E.D.: Good album verse—in
fact, rather too good for album verse—but not enough life
in it....C.C. : You write :
Lubricator, and lever, slot, sheaf, crank, and disc, and
drum,
Work in harmony, all the lot, with a genuine business
hum.
We seem to have seen that sort of thing done better else-
where Alex. O. W. : Not bad as hymns, but as
poems they are hopeless.. ..A.E.: Goodish verse, but the
inward musings of the immigrant ’bus-driver are mori-
bund, if not Dead Sea, fruit owing to their unvarying
uniformity and commonplaceness... .Anxious : It is a
doctor’s job. Consult any general practitioner Y.
Bank : One verse stands out, owing to the innate pathos
of it:
But when I drain my glass of mineral
And sit me in the shade,
And contemplate on all that may befall,
There’s one thing turns my thoughts away
As evening dulls the glade—
Ah, the absence of sweet Maggie takes the pleasure from
it all.
J.B.U. : Jokes may be new; nevertheless they’re
rotten. Some jokes contradict the natural order of
things by being rotten before they are three seconds old.
Beezer: Awful illustration, worse poetry. Desist...
Carlcobur : Bizarre, but bumpy Sam Spry: Good
material; treatment a bit sloppy Graydon : Realistic,
but rather feeble towards the end... Actus: Not at all
in our line.... Mary May: The form is good, but the
matter mediocre ... J.D. : You have missed the humor-
ous possibilities of it Thos. McD. : Its faults outweigh
its merits Toolooa : You have ideas, but you are a
perilous versifier... .Malwa: They have moderate merit.
You can almost certainly do better Embassy B. :
“ Both ” nearly arrived, but not quite... .Anchor : Shows
dawning descriptive power.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.H.W. : No striking virtues about picture of stage
Irishman... E.W.: Faint pencil drawing with a curate
in it coldly rejected Pike : If we printed that ancient
joke the jury that sat on us would bring in a verdict of
justifiable homicide... H.S.C.: One held for considera-
tion. Two (including the one based on the old whiskered
jest about being “put on bis feet ”) rejected with punctu-
ality and despatch H.H. : Cricket picture is too
original a style of art. So is the other F.F. :“ Aus-
tralian Game ” is humorless and badly drawn. Also
there are other things G.M.R. : Two rejected without
hesitation. If a dead silence is preserved about the third
that will be a sign that it has gone the same road. At
present it is under consideration Laurence F.: Cari-
cature doesn’t consist solely in drawing big heads on
small bodies. There are other things W.F.11.: The
drawing was terrible, and so was our language when we
read the alleged joke M.R. : None of them of much
account.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*


Ħ
Fly- PapilrJ"
Jm i
in Itfe liAV.t-of -ffi infOng
of jjrofif" &" loss,
J7u+" -tfcir FaJvtce. Sheets
in "ttytir & jcT*
r i F A v e- •ft* II
vnh)
-<Vud
Tisme* : —■' By Jingo ! 00-f *ll -tW; '3F\*_
1/aye you ? •! mug~~c<zr thinly
S f oK AusfraJivr Defence j
k 111 £**! + '
ITie old A'lfc*;—" Hckc [ eet'^w^y
in l
r €*n me !
- "Ih6 United Kirjpdorr)
w 'll S firmed into
Ancon^itfona,l Sui'r^ndci'
»H A -few rnontijs ."
| Fa Di'e^dnoufflifci']
ft-K:“ Vjll l! Ho-TwVle I
Kecf> f’ot'K Shob t ) |
Inltjc A«e '
orioinajly ‘clAi'ned
foe -ftfe Dre^dnoug^t-^'"^—
’|f~is refereed 1o lne.
idea. of' b. Sydney )^|>ef\‘'
We see |me /
row a>W (.KOiOofly
MOSTLY DREADNOUGHT.


FOR. EVERY EMERGENCY—
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT.
. ... LUCKY ...
BLACK OPAL.
Exquisite Black Opal
and Diamonds, £l4.
Black Opal and
Olivines, £7 7s.
Choice Black Opal
and Diamonds.
£lO 10s.
Special Black Opal
Centre and two
Diamonds, £l5.
Marian Crawford writes of it in “ Soprano”
as follows: —
“ I wish vou good luck,” he said lightly. .. , .
“Thank you,” she answered ; “ one can never have too much of it—never ; get a talisman, .
‘ Jadoo ’—a Black Opal is the best; but if you choose that you must get it yourself-yoi
charm, a
must buy
it, or earn it, otherwise it will have no effect.”
We get these gems direct from the mines. We cut them in Sydney.
We mount them. We carry the largest stock (unset) in Australia.
We export them.
Plain Figures—Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, £*5 * 23 Hunter Street
ABORIGIN
ALITILS
IN THE YEAR NINETEEN HUNDRED
AND SOMETHING—THE AUSTRALIAN
SWAGMAN.
“Pick”: “Jan or,” “Agricola,” and the
other Aboites who have been discussing the
alleged carrion-eating propensities of the goburra,
arewrong. Norhasany writer stated the exact truth
concerning the gastronomic habits of this much-
canvassed bird to date. Here it is:—Jack, the
hilarious one, visits carrion wherever a sniff of it
thickens the atmosphere, but he religiously dis-
dains to consume a morsel thereof. He is simply
therein search of the scavenger beetles and like
small fry that havearrived before him. Except that
by dining upon them he assimilates a second-hand
nourishment from the deceased, the charge of
carrion-eating laid at his hollow spout is a crimi-
nal libel. John eats what he kills only, and the
man who says otherwise is a twin-cylinder or tur-
biqe liar of 40-dog power.
“Kola”: Where has “Agricola been
hibernating that he knows so little about the eel,
and (B. 4/3/’O9) wants to lay it down that there
has been no progress in our knowledge of the
slimy one since—good Heavens —Aristotle ? It is
just 16 years since Professors Grassie and Calan-
druccio, of Italy, discovered the main features of
the eel’s life history. Then, in 1905 and 1906,
Professor Schmidt (Denmark) spent two years, on
a Danish Government investigating steamer, in
seeking more knowledge of tne slippery thing.
So that now we know as much about the eel as
about almost any other fish, and more than about
a good many. The eel facts, summarised :
(1) It breeds in the deep sea, at a depth of from 3000 to
,4500 ft.
(2) It never breeds in fresh water.
(3) The mature eels go down to the sea (if they can);
and, after breeding, never return. It is believed that
they die after breeding ; but this is not certain.
(4) The young eels remain about one year in the sea,
slowly migrating to river mouths.
(5) They come up the rivers in spring and early summer
in countless millions. These young eels are what “Agri-
cola” saw. The movements of the young eels are called
“ eel-fares,” and have been known for centuries.
(6) The Australian eel is the same, so far as his habits
are concerned, as the European eel.
(7) Eel-fares can be seen yearly on, for example, the
Barwon and Hopkins rivers (Vic.).
(8) The foregoing facts account for the absence of eels
in inland waters, such as the Darling, etc.
(9) Eels confined in dams that have no outlet do not
breed.
To many bushmen some of the above statements
are flat heresy, or burglary. But they are true,
nevertheless. No Mrs. Eel has ever been found
in fresh water with eggs in her; and any unbe-
lieving bushman is hereby invited to produce one
if he can, Upon such production lam prepared
to pay him £5.
the potency of the fluid manifested itself, and Tapper,
with the unreason of the combative drunk, expressed a
desire to inspect the plumaged stowaway. He rose to
his feet, rocking unsteadily, and in his efforts to preserve
his equilibrium, stood heavily upon the cleric’s feet.
With a pain-contorted visage, the soul-saver im-
plored him to be seated. Tapper disregarded
the request, and reached for the water-bottle.
“Time th’ black ’n* white ’ad ’is 'whistle wet.
’Ook ’im out, boss 1 ” he urged.
“ Pray, do not distress yourself upon the bird s
account,” replied the parson, coldly. The train here
swung round a bend, and Tapper, disturbed by
the oscillation, descended heavily upon the
man of peace. Again were the pacific person’s
feet afflicted, and the water-bottle, released from
Tapper’s grasp, bestowed a liberal supply of the
primal beverage upon the preacher’s shirt front
and whiskers. The afflicted cleric was the sort of man
who begins quietly, but who is, by sufficient irritation,
converted into a human bomb of destruction. Grasping
Tapper in the vicinity of the neckerchief, he flung him
violently back, and in belligerent tones roared, “Sense-
less ape ! Keep off my feet 11 Blast you !!!”
Tapper leered at him.
“ Got’cher baptised thet trip, ole buck.”
Once again he rose with the intention of inspecting the
magpie. And yet again he trespassed upon his godly
companion’s leather-dressed extremities. An ejaculation
stained the atmosphere, and the next moment the pair
were engaged in furious combat. The pilot succeeded in
getting Tapper’s head beneath his arm, and smote it with
painful regularity. ...
“ Soak ’im one, Squezzer ! ” wailed Tapper in a voice of
anguish.
Squezzer prepared to participate in the disturbance, but
was speedily repressed by a burly scrub-cutter.
“It’s a fair go between th’Ohurch’n’th’Devil. Let
’em monoDolise th’ job.”
While delivering himself of these words the worthy
toiler supplied Squezzer with two stiff lefts. Eventually
the Ohurch prevailed, and as the train slowed down at
Penrith, Tapper collapsed between the seats. The ticket-
collector, on appearing at the door, was amazed to dis-
cover a sedate, middle-aged parson sitting astride a cowed
and blood-smirched layman. He clamored for explana-
tions. The cure* of souls was beginning to speak, when
his victim interjected, in nuiffled tones :
“ Feel f’r th’ feathers ! ”
The collector appeared mystified ; the churchman dis-
played apprehension.
The situation was saved by the scrub-cutter announc-
ing that Tapper was subject to fits, and babbled strangely
after emerging from an attack. In a thoug'htful manner
the collector punched the tickets and withdrew.
Ten minutes later, Tapper hung over the lowered sash
of the door, gazing absently at the receding land-cape.
His anatomv moved convulsively, as if it held much silent
1 mghter. Presumably the foregoing events had provoked
his risibility. When he regained his seat and had wiped
the superfluous moisture from his eyes, ’twas noticeable
that his mental attitude had undergone a change.
He endeavored to propitiate the parson.
“ I beg y’r pardon f’r ’ittin’ things up ’ot, boss. I’m a
blanky raw-’ead when I’m shick. ’Ere’s me ’and t’ y’r.
Clutch ’n’ waggle.”
He made to rise, but the other, fearing a recurrence of
the trampling process, waved him back with a depre-
catory hand. . .
“ Young man,” he remarked, “ I appreciate your spirit
of conciliation, and hope you will consider the error of
your ways. Forgive me if l have occasioned you pain,
but it is difficult to restrain the old Adam in our nature
nodded his head in approval, composed himself
in the corner, and fell into slumber.
Ihe man of peace resumed the perusal of Good Words.
A BID FOR FORTUNE.
“ Gentleman , romantic , well-travelled. of somewhat Bohemian nature, would like to meet
lady (age no object) with some money. He is very desirous of settling down comfortably,
after a roving career.”
John, of Botany, refuses to see eye to eye
with brother missioners on the opium question.
“Hi yah !” he says. “ One, two, tlee die fo’ not
have op’m. Snake bite ’m —one Bathu’st, one
Coolac, one yes’day Long Bay. Chinaman that
smokes op’m no mind snake. Snake bite ’m ;
bite Chinaman evely day lound Bot’ny las’
year and no mind. Now if bit fingly or toe,
piece must be cut off, and then not safe.” “ But
you can get opium as medicine.” “Hi yah ! No
goot. Must smoke’m evely day. Then no mind
snake and mosquitoes. Since op’m stop, mos-
quitoes eat Chinaman, Not touch Chinaman that
smoke op’m. And centipedes and spidehs !
When Chinaman not smoke one month all come
out of holes, dlop on him, bite, sting, kill!” “No
worse than with whites.” “Hi yah ! China-
man’s house not blick, like white man’s house.
Millions of ’em ! Bad time for Chinaman ! ”
The prickly pear has burst out of Queens- clatter.
land and into N.S.W., and, judging
by a last week’s report, it is doing
well. In the Moree district it is
striding across the country with seven-
league boots. At Pallamallawa it is
not only surrounding the township, but
is breaking right into it, and there is
now only one side on which the public
school can be approached —the other
three sides are all pear. If the vege-
table finally closes round the school on
a Sunday or holiday no lives will be
lost, but if it surrounds the academy
during working hours, it is obvious
that the teacher and the scholars may
die inside, either through starvation
or through the cactus growing at them
and suffocating them. One can picture
the tragedy—the pear pouring in
through the doors and windows and
swarming over the desks and the floor;
the obliteration of the maps and the
blackboard ; the complete disappear-
ance of the cane ; the frantic attempt
to escape by the chimney and get
on to the roof and call to the people
outside to bring a balloon ; the hor-
rible discovery that prickly pear is
pouring down the chimney like a
cataract of vegetable octopuses; the
last struggle when the teacher has put
the scholars on the mantelpiece and
is hitting the pear desperately with
the Abridged History of England;
and, finally, the vanishment of every-
body swallowed up in the quicksand
of pear, and a dead silence within the
building, and outside the crying of
distracted mothers as they lash out at
the pear with the fire-irons and try
vainly to fight their way in to the
rescue of their offspring.
“Myrtle”: “ Flinderino ” (B. 4/3/’O9)
reckons that the peewee is the “most numerous
native bird in Australia.” The peewee, or pee-
wit, hasn’t a hope, and will lose his deposit
money. Also he’ll be lucky if his hat doesn’t
blow overboard and his best ace isn’t trumped
first round. I beg, as an amendment, to propose
Mr. Leatherhead “ Elinderino’s ” talk in the
same par. about the peewee and the soldier-bird
being synonymous in Victoria is a bit of a startler
At any rate, the Queensland soldier-bird isn’t even
a 987th cousin to the Queensland peewit. The
latter is a glossy black and a clean-white color,
while the soldier is a very shabbily-dressed chap.
He looks like a Central American warrior.
Put a magpie, mutton-bird, butcher-bird, and
peewit side by side, and even a blind man could
see that intermarriage had been solemnised in the
ancient history of those bush birds ; but throw in
the Chow-colored soldier-bird, and you’ll at once
accuse its ancestors of having been unfaithful to
the white Australian pledge. By the way, the
soldier-bird is a great battler, and simply loathes
the gohanna, who has a failing for Mrs. Soldier’s
eggs—also Mrs. Soldier herself and her hubby and
any little cadets. I reckon the peewit hasn’t a
dead man’s chance against the soldier-bird or the
leatherhead in regard to either numbers, fight, or
LOOKING OUT FOR A SELECTION.
COCKY: “ You’re from Sydney, ain’t you?”
STRANOER: “ Yes.”
Cocky: “ What’s the country like down there—
scrub or plain?”
A SONG OF SMOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When, after dark, you reach the scattered tents beside
t)li6 creek,
Whose ghostly canvas haunts the bush along the dim,
brown streak
Which is your track, star-shown among the silent, crowd-
ing gums—
This is the time when “ What ho, Bill! ” with heartening
welcome comes
Upon your ears. When you have turned below the Big
Pool bend
And go up-gully, groping slow, to where you used to
spend
Cool nights last month, it’s worth the trip to find a
' friendly bloke :
“Why, Smithy’s up here yet! ” you say. “ H >oray ! I
smell his smoke ! ”
Mid-morn, high noon, mid-afternoon, the pleasant incense
rolls
A-down the long Australian day, breeze-borne, to bid lone
souls
Take heart; and when the sun is high above the dinner-
pitch,
Good smoke comes in to help us if the tucker’s none too
rich.
And when short-handles swing again to sling eternal
clay,
The sledge sounds down the gully where the striker
spends his day
Before the forge. The day goes on, by dusty, slow
degrees,
And we who sweat in sunshine yearn for smoke and
shady trees.
The long, Australian day wears on, and blazing sunshine
steeps
The bush wherein warm toilers swarm and hump hot dirt
in heaps ;
But, at long last, the knock-off sounds, and towards the
glowing west
The sun swings steady as we go to tucker and to rest ;
And, as I mooch along the track beside the creek that
flows
Campwards, the smell of pungent smoke salutes my sun-
burnt nose,
And all my being thrills with it—that pleasure, swift,
sublime,
Which, with the scent of grilling things, wakes in me,
every time !
Ah, when, these nights, in marble bars, or bars in saw-
dust floored,
When in the cocktail-palace or the pub where beer is
“ drored,”
When in the splendid haunts of Cash with confidence I
roam,
Smoke-smells, of all their fine town-smells, will make me
feel at home ;
And when, with old Prahran’s elect I hobnob at my ease,
Or spread my evenin’ coat-tails to the gentle Toorak
breeze,
Stray wood-smoke smells and sniffs of strange, cheap pipe-
weed bring to me
Quick memories of camp-fires, and of black plug, passing
free.
VICTORIA.
FRANR HENTV.
“ Cross Nib’s ” tale :
A Johnsonian excursion train was staggering East. In
a second-class carriage sat three persons. Two were
carpenters wending citywards after the completion of a
station job. The third, ’judging by his austere expression
mid habiliment, was a mover in matters ecclesiastical. He
perused a periodical, entitled Good Words, unflag’gingry.
All was peace. Suddenly the whistle shrieked, and the
train began to slacken speed. The stouter artisan pro-
truded the upper portion of him from the window and
directed a rheumy eye upon the station ahead. A second
later he thus adjured his mate :—“Sit tight for the rush.
We’ve met the village on its movin’ day.”
Then the train drew into the platform and stopped. A
mighty throng of trippers projected itself into whatever
carriage was nearest. After much opening and banging
of doors, and a chorus of. farewells, the well-primed tram
moved out. The trio in the first compartment had been
supplemented by four scrub-cutters and a couple of shed
employees. _
The two last were young and indecorous. They ex-
hibited symptoms of inebriety. To relieve, the travel
tedium he who sat opposite the Scripture expounder
entertained his companion with a tale of cerulean hue.
Both laughed boisterously at its conclusion and directed
furtive glances towards the righteous man’s corner. He
ignored their presence. Shorily he rose, and from the
luggage-rack overhead drew down a cardboard box per-
forated at both ends. Lifting the lid cautiously, he
peered intently within its interior, and then replaced it
in its former position. His movements aroused the
curiosity of his vis-d-vis.
“ Warrer got in th’ box, boss?” he inquired.
“ A young magpie,” was the civil but laconic, reply.
“ S’truth, y’r good f’r losin’ some silver if th’ railway
blokes git shrewd t’ th’ cargo. Warrer y’r say, Squezzer ! ’’
“ Y’r chat’s correct ev-ery time, Tapper,” remarked
his companion.
At this stage, Tapper produced a reeking pocket-flask,
and for the ensuing five or six miles the twain busied
themselves in the absorption of its contents. Gradually


Learn by Post^
rrEi
V •" your »P»re time, and Without interference"
7 with your regular vocation, subjects which will
enable you to attain apeedy promotion in you
present position, or qualify you for a more cot
genial and better paid occupation.
STOTT
HOARE’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
DR. SHELDON’S MAGNETIC LINIMENT
Cures rheumatism. It will penetrate to your very bones
soothe and subdue the pain. Rub it in freely. It will
not blister or burn the skin. Rub it in and the pain will
stop. It can’t help but do you good. For sale every-
where, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
Mrs. Webber, Sharp Street, Geelong, Vic.,
writes : —“Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is a wonder-
ful liniment for cuts and bruises or rheumatism.
Every member of my family has used it some
time or other and has always obtained relief after
a few applications. One thing I have always
noticed is that when Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is
used for a cut or burn, there is never any scar
left on the flesh.”*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“Jailor”: Why this difference in the
habit of the white ant ? The bulk of them live in
large socialistic communities, and put most of
their time in dotting the Australian landscape
with earthy excrescences of varying sizes and
shapes. But there is another section of the
termite race, the Anti-Sosh, individualistic,
nomadic insect, that does no building, but roams
about in small squads, infests the wood-heap,
chews up the miner’s hut, and invades his
garden. And when they go into the gardening
business the gardener can quit. They beat him
every time. They lie low until the crops are well
advanced. They may be in the ground in millions,
yet one sees no sign of them when turning over
the soil. But just as the gardener is shaking
hands with himself over his splendid crops,
the plants assume a sickly hue and wilt
day by day. The nevv-chum thinks it is the
heat, and starts feverishly to dig his potatoes,
only to find that the tubers are skin and white
ants. Next he discovers that the cabbages are but
dying leaves clinging to a stalk, eaten clean out
and closely packed with ants. Beans and tomatoes
are similarly destroyed, the insects working up
through the tap root until every branch is full of
them right to the extremities. No crop escapes
them. In my last garden I battled long with the
pests, but when they completely ate out twenty
rhubarb roots I resigned. I was afraid they might
eat me.
THE AUDIBLE COURSE.
WILLO: Plowed if I know what to have. What 're you havin', Encry?”
’ENERYE: “ Soup! Are yeh deaf?”
A.E.M. : Consider the vagaries of
tumbles. The other day in N.S. W. a boy fell off
a plank 2ft. from the ground, and broke both
arms. Then, a day or so after a woman fell over
•i if /~i •, i , 1 .
a 70ft. cliff at Coogee without receiving any par-
ticular damage. Again, the present writer saw a
man killed instantaneously (broken neck) by a fall
of only 6ft. Also saw a man fall from a" third-
storey window on to a pavement, and, when people
to Sl see d £le PiCk Tl
to see the pieces scramble up and shake them-
selves. Then the mouthpiece said “Damn!”
and the lot walked calmly away. Apropos, a well-
known Sydney builder told deponent that he
once saw a painter fall at least 40ft., and crash
tl,rough »thick glass verandoh-roolon to, flagged
footway. And, before I could get to him, he
was up and swearing because he had torn his
trousers. You simply can’t kill a painter ! ”
“ Carte Rouge”: “SydneyS. Severn,” and
“Intruder,” and others (B. 4/3/’O9, etc.) interest
me greatly with their pars, re the Papuan and
North Australian pouri-pouri. The thing corres-
ponds very evidently with the Maori “makutu ”
—the signs and symptoms are the same, and they
both end in a dead brown man. I have known
Maoris state the day and hour of death, as in
the pouri-pouri cases, and they
have gone out strictly according to
plan and specification. The
only explanation that can be
arrived at is that it is purely
a form of hypnotic sug-
gestion—-that weird
manifestation of con-
centrative power
which the British
Medical Association
pooh-poohed rather
less than 10 years
ago, but which has
since forced itself to re-
cognition. In every case
the primary suggestion to
a receptive (and, mayhap,
superstitious) brain becomes
in time a fixed idea by
auto-suggestion—the brood-
ing and thinking over the
primary suggestion so fixes
the idea on the brain-cells
that at last those cells most
intimately concerned (in the
case of a makutu or pouri-
pouri victim, those control-
ling respiration and the
heart functions) become so
saturated with the idea
that they cease work alto-
gether, and death ensues.
It is all very well to
laugh at anyone suffering
from hallucinations, but
the scoffer should remember
that the ideas are deadly
real to the sufferer, and so
fixed becomes the idea (say)
of ghosts haunting him that at
last he actually does see them,
or rather the brain-cells connected
with his optic system do it for him.
“ Wang ” writes, in bitterness :
The average bush worker takes his pleasures seriously,
a nd always with an eye to business. Not long ago I
attended a sports meeting up in a bush township, and the
principal attraction was a wood-chopping contest. All
the male residents round about were connected with
timber-cui ting in some shape or form ; yet when they
took a holiday they couldn’t get away from timber. The
champion wood-draggers of the district slogged away
with their axes, harder than they' ever did at their legiti-
mate toil, and the onlookers cheered the spectacle.
In agricultural districts ploughing matches find much
favor. The matches are held in some cocky’s cultivation
paddock, and the cocky in whose field they are held
shakes hands with himself. Apart from the amusement
it affords him and others, it’s a real profitable pastime—
to him. A good ploughing match saves him pounds.
Potato-digging lends itself to some exciting competi-
tions. The man who can dig up the most bags of tubers
in a given time is deserving of public recognition.
For a brief period I held the proud title of champion
onion bagger of Wangabillv. One day a rival aspirant
challenged me for the title and a side wager of five bob.
Our boss supplemented the purse with half-a-crown. The
man who filled the most bags in a day’ was to be adjudged
the winner. We toiled like imps of Gehenna, the boss
cheering us on with great spirit. I lost the onion-bagging
championship by a quarter of a bag. And the boss was
glad he offered the half-crown, for we did as much thru
day as we would have done in three ordinary days. T 1 e
boss was very anxious for me to try and win back the
title ; but I wasn’t. I had doubts about the boss’s dis
interestedness.
111 Cowland I once witnessed a milking competition It
created much excitement amongst the devotees at "the
shrine of Cow. The competition was supervised by a
number of whiskery old cockies, who, among them
offered ten bob to the milker who could finish off a cow in
the quickest time. The winner was a lean, hunsry-
looking weed, with eyes that were weak for want of suf-
ficient sleep, and shoulders humped-up through continual
stooping to reach the milk-bag. But Rethrew his paltrv
chest out and strutted about, an object ob envy to his
acquaintances. To be champion milker of Wantrabillv
was a proud position.
The runner-up reckoned that he had been conspired
against by the books, or something, and had had a
“snag > ” apportioned to him. He protested; but the
stewards ignored his protest. The last I saw of him he
was engaged in an argument with the winner, and wildly
backing himself to milk 12 cows to the other’s 10 He
asserted that he was a cow-stayer, while the other was
only good for a milk-sprint. I heard afterwards that he
managed to arrange a milking match with the winner of
the contest, and beat him badly. Then he was a happy
man, and was honored and looked up to by everybody in
Cowopolis.
AN OUTBACK PROVISO.
SWAGGIE : “ Gimme a billy o' water.”
MISS SELECTOR: “If what?”
SWAGGIE : “If it’s rained out this way, of coorse.”
“ V.Gr. W.” : For whole-souled economy,
commend me to my old friend Whiskers. A tin
accumulator he is on a played-out N.Q. tin field.
He decided to visit a town about 20 rough
and stony miles away. For days he cast
rueful glances on his boots, and worried over the
dire effects this journey would have on them.
Then a brilliant idea came to him. He made a
round of the neighbors, and inquired of each
likely male the size of hoof-gear he used. Having
located a pair of boots to his taste, he promptly
borrowed them, stuck them on, and tramped the
20 miles into town, carrying his own under his
arm. He reserved the latter for use in town. His
method of saving boot leather got known, and
now the neighbors refuse to lend their foot-wraps.
Whiskers confided to me last week that his faith
in his neighbors’ generosity had been badly
shaken.
* * * *
“ Silas Snell ” : I suppose nine out of ten
married men, and men who have been married
and have survived, admit in their hearts that
there is a large amount of hard, wholesome
truth in the ancient gag that turns upon man’s
natural antipathy to his wife’s mother. l ean
remember many incidents and cases in point,
but most vividly of all I remember the
adventure at the Methodist picnic at the
Eel Hole, Tumbagurra. The picnic was
about three hours old when Mrs. Myers
was reported missing. Two hours later
Mrs. Myers was still missing; and
as the picnic was on the edge of
the Five Mile Scrub, the elders de-
cided to take a serious view of the
lady’s protracted absence. Then Pole-
man stepped forward, and begged the
Church to resume rejoicing. He would
hunt up the missing lady, he said. As
her son-in-law, it was his manifest duty
to recover the absent dame, and he was
quite eloquent in assuring the picnic of
his ability to track her down. Poleman
went out, and the pastor and his flock
made merry again till close upon night-
fall. Poleman had not returned, and
Mrs. Myers was still missing. So a search
party was organised. It took that search
party three hours to find Mrs. Myers, but
it found Poleman in 10 minutes, asleep
in a hollow tree not 100yds. from the
picnic ground.
“ Barcoo”: The sapphire digger is a
kindly soul. Fred the Pole left Ruby
Vale for a burst, a while back, and got
stranded in Rockhampton. He wired to
his cobber, the Spaniard, for relief
funds. The Dago, fearing the rage of
Frederick’s friends if they were balked
of the chance to aid him, sent a subscription-
list around the camp. The following dona-
tions poured in : —(1) Six perspiration cloths,
(2) a pair of swag-straps, (3) one set of
Prince Alberts, (4) one billycan, (5) one
comb, (6) one mirror, (7) 6ft. of hempen
rope. The articles were sent with a good
heart. Also, they were symbolical. Each
gift had an underlying purpose or significance.
No. 1 was to absorb dampness, No. 2 to bind the
parcel, No. 3 a preventive of blisters, No. 4 for
the purpose of stowing dampness, No. 5 a hint to
cleanliness. No. 6 to watch himself starving. No.
7to hang himself by if he felt inclined. Fred the
Pole subsequently lobbed into camp, weary and
footsore, yet grateful withal.
Pick : The desirable shade tree, in-
quired for by “ F.C.” (B. 11/3/’O9), is the booby-
aloe, which grows abundantly on the South Coast.
It may be transplanted without trouble, will grow
in any soil, attains its full size in seven years, and
is then a dense, oval mass of dark-green foliage.
Also it blossoms prettily, with a star-like pink-and-
white flower, and never sheds its leaves. I sent a
number of the young trees to a friend out West, a
few years ago, and they are flourishing there
vigorously.
“ Chink” ; Much has been declaimed anent
the cruelty of allowing our beautiful and useful
Australian birds to be indiscriminately slaughtered
to provide plumage for the adornment of women’s
headgear. But won’t some soul arise and shout
forth in the cause of those more persecuted un-
fortunates, the cage birds ? Not those mechanical
chirrupers that twitter in comparative ease from
behind the netting of a suburbanite’s candle-box ;
but those miserable, sick, hopelessly-wretched
creatures which drag out a woeful existence in
crowded, vermin-infested cages in city shops, or
are exposed for sale in the sun-smitten streets of
the city. From their homes in the back country
these luckless little unfortunates are brought to
town, there to swelter in miserable cages—in
many instances so small that the birds are
crowded on each other’s backs—until they are
purchased or merciful death steps in. The
Cruelty to Animals Prevention Society should
gather itself up, some sultry day, and propel itself
along the streets of Melbourne armed with note-
book and pencil, and it would find material for a
dozen prosecutions.
As a bushman who
occasionally wanders
into the city, I feel
for the murdered
bird of the bush, for
the slaughtered egret
and its starved
young; but these
hapless tenants of
living graves are in-
finitely worse off.
A POETIC ALLUSION.
HORACE : “ Look 'ere, mate; yer always callin' me
Soaker. I don't like it. Me name’s Horace.”
AUGUSTUS: “ Don't worry, old boy; yer'd be just
as drunk by any other name.”
THE CANDLE-FISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In parts of Alaska is found a kind of fish that makes a
capital candle when it is dried. The tail of the fish is
stuck into a crack of a wooden table to hold it upright,
and its nose is lighted. It gives a good, steady light of
three-candle power, and considerable heat, and will burn
for about three hours.— Remarkable news item.
I heard a lodger in the darkness wail
Unto the landlady, “ Madam, I wish
To give you notice ! I have not a tail—
Much less a nose ! Pray send me up a fish 1"
And in the hallway of that hash-house dark
A Voice of Sorrow spake a Solemn Truth :
“ If I gave each of you a blessbd shark,
You’d burn it all, and grumble still. ’Ere, Ruth !
“Take up another fish to Mr. Brown,
And say from me that that’s the last he'll (jet !
You d think, the way they let their fish burn down,
I caught them in the wash-tub with a net ! ”
Then the loud serving-maid, on eager feet,
Up from the scullery, at her desire,
Fled with a fish a hungry man might eat,
Had it not strangely worn its nose on fire.
The boarder took it with a scornful hand
And strode in anger to his gloomy cell,
Where, in a chink of his unused washstand,
He stuck it fast to madly flare and smell.
Then splendid poems of the rolling sea
Did he indite, wherein all ships were “ tanks,”
Until he paused and wondered wretchedly
If they would come back marked, “Declined with
thanks.”
Then, half-consumed, the light-fish drew his gaze.
“ Why burn the substance for the shade ? ” he said ;
f And , reaching forth his hand, dashed out the blaze
And sank, fish-laden, on his truckle bed.
He ate the candle in the sizzling dark
Without a pang. And that impromptu dish
Gave him great joy, for, Joyous Reader, mark !
A poem does not fill one like a fish !
N.S.W.
KODAK.
A CAROL OF OPEN ROADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the thousand head is rolling through the downs
On the stock-route from the sandhills of the West,
Then it’s up and take your stride with the bearded men
that ride.
As they ride who urge a never-ending quest—
For it’s north by the Roper, or it’s south by the Murray,
or it’s out to the sandhills of the West.
When the immortelles are shimmering like snow’,
When the Mitchell-grass is waving to your knees,
Then it’s up and mount your hack, take your gun and fix
your pack,
And follow in the footsteps of the breeze ;
Going west by the Grey, going east by the Darling, when
the Mitchell-grass is waving at your knees.
When moving wisps of dust are on the plains,
And slowly on the six-mile stages creep ;
When a haze lifts to the sky and a cloud comes drifting
by.
Resolves, and shows a passing mob of sheep ;
As east by the ranges or south by the mallee, they slowly
on the shorter stages creep.
Then it’s O, take your saddle and your gun,
While the w'ide lands are richer from the rains ;
Get your horses and your kit, see that all is tight and fit,
And start the stores out moving for the plains.
By the waters in the creeks, and the blooms along the
tracks, when the wide lands are richer from the rains.
When the luscious parakelia is in bloonj,
And the desert-pea is heavy in the bud,
Get j'our wild and ragged band of unbroken colts in hand
And urge them through the lignum flats in flood—
Going west by the Cooper, bearing south to Kapunda,
when the desert-pea is heavy in the bud.
For the keys of the waters of the North
Have opened all the roads across the land ;
So it’s forth and forward fare on the tracks to everywhere,
While the trailing creeper riots on the sand ;
Bearing east to the Clarence, bearing west by the Hergott,
when the stock routes are opened through the land.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLKS.


What we are doing for Australian Defence.
How we are hollering about British Defence.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
THE BOY won’t make any
fuss about cleaning' the
boots if you buy him a
tin of CHERRY BLOSSOM
POLISH. It gives such a good
shine in so short a time that he
work reflects credit.
CHERRY BLOSSOM resists
lie dump, makes the leather
pliable, and as you get more
foryour money than of any other
polish, it is economical to buy.
Try a tin for Easter—3d. and 6d' ______
qw?ct V v ll a 'T' Wrifce us if you cannot get supplied
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Ĥ
Weak
Lungs.
The unique healing properties of our
special petroleum, combined with the
tonic effects of the hypophosphites,
make Angier’s Emulsion superior
to all other remedies
for coughs and lung
affections. No other
Emulsion has the
same soothing, cough-
allaying, lung - healing
power nor the same
tonic effect upon appe-
tite and digestion. It
is the most perfect and
most palatable of all
Emulsions. For free
sample send 4d. postage.
Of all chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4/6.
Sr
LOR IS
LUi
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
The Angler Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack Si., Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Adelaide produced two Jacks with a passion
for hustling around and organising things. One of
the Jacks, Virgo, stepped at last out of the fancy-
goods counting-house, and became panjandrum
and mainspring of the Y.M.C.A. in Australia;
the other, Creswell, remained nominally a fire-
insurance manager, but worked off his energy as
secretary of the Cricket Association, the Agricul-
tural Society, and a dozen or so other leagues and
such like. “ The Show ”isto S. Aus. what “The
Cup ”is to Victoria ; and Creswell has been to
the one what Byron Moore is to the other, and a
bit more. Had Creswell been built on wire and
whipcord lines he might have stood the rush for
another 20 years, but he accumulated flesh and
blood, and was a fair mark for the apoplectic
stroke that arrived last week. The illness lasted
less than 24 hours, and then S. Australia lost one
of its two best-known men ; its other best-known
is probably Tom Price.
Old George
Grah am, V j ctoria’s
Minister of Agri-
culture, lias been
many things in his
time. His first job
was as ship’s boy
on an Arctic
whaler, nearly 60
years ago. He left
the sea for the
mines in the roar-
ing days of Bal-
larat ; and was
successively miner,
contractor, farmer,
and politician. He
found farming and
politics paid best,
and has stuck
closely to both for
half a century.
Graham ought to
know his way about
the Agriculture
and Water Supply
Department, fo r
he is now in his
fourth term of
office. He served
under James Mun-
ro (now dead) in
1890; under Wil-
liam Shiels (dead)
in 1892: under Allan
McLean (eclipsed) in
1899; and now he
serves under John Murray
(born tired). And he has
always been Agriculture or Water Supply, or
something like that.
William Boupell, who, in 1862, was M.P.
for Lambeth (England), and was convicted of
forgery and sentenced to penal servitude for life,
died last week in London. He was released in
1876. Haying turned pious while in gaol, he spent
some of his declining years in slum missions in the
backblocks of London, where he is said to have
ringbarked the tree of evil with some success.
Bishop Barlow, who has had his face
badly bruised and one eye blackened by a severe
fall while walking on “the highly-polished floor
at his residence” (Goulburn, N.S.W.), very likely
in a thoughtless moment strode out as he used to
do in the North Queensland bush. To a man
given to hastening through the wilderness with
the abandon of the kangaroo in his native haunts,
highly-polished floors are treacherous devices. A
highly-polished artificial bishop may be safe
enough on them, but they aren’t the right things
for a natural bishop.
Capt. W. B. Randell, who was with his
brother on the first voyage of the steamer Mary
Ann, the pioneer of steam traffic on the Murray,
has just pulled through a severe bout of illness at
Grumeracha (S.A.). He will complete his 85th
year on May 2. Governor Fox Young, through
whose influence Captain Cadell undertook to open
up the Murray by means of steamers, writing to
Norman Campbell on Tuesday, April 20, 1853,
from “Station of Hogg and Lawson, on board
Lady Augusta steamer beyond Swan Hill,” says:—
The Mary Ann, a steamer of 20 tons, built, navigated
and owned by the Randells, millers and farmers "f
Gumeracha, started a fortnight before us from the Reedy
Creek, and reached Swan Hill some hours after us on the
Jith inst. She is now ahead of us, having steamed all
night, and passed us this morning* whilst we were at
anchor cutting wood. The squatters are delighted at the
prospect of sending their wool by water; and there can
be no doubt that steamers will henceforth never leave
these waters, to the great benefit of all the colonies and
the speedy exploration of the rest of the continent.
The two vessels named were the first two steamers
to float on the Murray. Governor Young wrote a
despatch at Swan Hill on April 17, 1853, to the
Colonial Office, Downing-street, which is probably
the only such document penned by an Australian
Governor on the Murray.
RAISING THE WIND.
“Here! I want to borrow a trifle. I’m making
a little present to a party as shall be name-
less. YOU won’t lose by it!”
“How much do you want on ’em!”
“ Two millions!”
Died in Brisbane, on March 17, aged 62,
M. H. Moreton, at one time a well-known Queens-
land squatter, and brother of Berkeley Basil
Moreton a former Colonial Secretary of Banana-
land. About 20 years ago he gave up cattle-
raising, and got a billet as Resident Magistrate in
Rapua, which he held till quite lately. Before
coming to Australia Moreton, who is a brother of
one of Britain’s belted noblemen (the Earl of
Dueie), held a commission in the 87th Foot.
Victoria’s Ancient Order of Foresters was
interested to learn, the other day. that its ex-
<vit\ n t- S ! i v r 1 etary vJ- L eplastrier, had reached his
90th birthday. The old boy is still particularly
active, and, at the celebration of his 90 not out,
he sang songs and gave Shakspearian recitations
with exceeding vivacity. Apart, maybe, from the
State Governor, he is probably the only man in
the State who habitually uses a rubber-stamp in
preference to writing his name. As a matter of
tact, his hand is too shaky to write it.
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
GRNIAL UNDERTAKER : “ Ah, doctor, you’re not
looking yourself. Nothing the matter, I
trust?”
MEDICO : “ Everything! These infernal accidents
are all very well for you, but they never give
me a chance to kill anything.”
According to some chronicles March 17
was the centenary of the appointment of the
first official postmaster in Australia. This was
Isaac Nicholls, who came out in the ship Admiral
Barrington, in October, 1791. He was appointed
by Lieutenant-Governor Foveaux, who succeeded
Major Johnston, during the suspension of
Governor Bligh. Foveaux announced the
appointment on April 25, 1809. Macquarie con-
firmed the appointment, and ordained that
Nicholls’ house in Lower George-street should be
the post office. The house stood north of the
present fire station. Nicholls held the billet
until his death in 1819, when he was succeeded
by George Panton.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant speaks :
Frank Farnell has presented the Mitchell Library
trustees with an oil portrait of his father, James Squire
Farnell, who was the first Australian native to become
Premier of New South Wales. He was born at Parra-
matta in 1827, and was a grandson of James Squire, who
came out in the first fleet with Governor Phillip. Mr.
Squire settled at Kissing Point, grew the first hops there,
and established a brewery. He had a brewer’s license in
the fiist decade of last century, and the red brewery
buildings still stand at Kissing Point. J. S. Farnell first
entered Parliament in 1859 as member for St. Leonards,
and in the following year he sat for Parramatta. Later
on he again represented St. Leonards. He held Minis-
terial office on several occasions. In 1877 he formed a
Ministry which lived exactly one year. Among his
colleagues were Justice Cohen and ex-Justice Foster
(these two and “Cocky” Burns are the sole survivors of.the
Farnell Cabinet). J. S. Farnell was the first Grand Master
of the N.S.W. constitution of Freemasonry. His effigy,
in freestone, occupies a niche on the Lands Office front,
near the stone presentments of Blaxland, Lawson, and
Wentworth.
Oldest Inhabitant : The farewell feeding
of allegedly-popufar men, as instanced in the
case of N.S.W. Governor Rawson, recalls a popu-
lar man who would not be publicly fed. Wilson
Gray, a former proprietor of the Dublin Freeman’s
Journal, came out to Victoria with Charles Ga van
Duffy in 1855, and became prominent in Mel-
bourne as a politician and a good Democrat. He
first agitated on the opening of the lands, and had
a seat in Parliament for Rodney, where the awful
Kvabram movement came from in later years.
He was an early member of the Land Convention,
which had its meetings in the large room of the
Temperance Hotel, on the corner of Spring and
Lonsdale streets. The Convention shaped the
early land policy of Victoria, and Duffy’s Act was
the outcome. When the Act passed, Gray left
Victoria and settled in Maoriland, where he be-
came a District Court Judge. He was a man of
sterling character, and, consequently, always poor.
Before he left Melbourne a money testimonial was
set on foot, but Gray refused it. Then he was in-
vited to a banquet. That he also refused, but he
compromised with a soiree at the Trades Hall.
Gray’s bust decorates the Trades Hall to this day.
Kidman, the just-returned Cattle Em-
peror, on being welcomed home by the stock
salesmen and buyers of Adelaide on March 22,
made a speech out of the fulness of his heart:—
I don’t think anyone can find a better country than
Australia. My word, this is a fine country ! On t’other
side of the world they don’t know what we have here.
This is one of the best countries in the world for a poor
man, or any man who will help himself and work. You
have the best climate in the world. You see more poor
people in a day on the other side than you see in Aus-
tralia in a year. The small wages in England and on the
Continent would surprise a good many here. They
say England is a cheap place to live in. All
rot. I bought a suit that would have cost
me £4 in Adelaide, and would have been just as well
made. In England they charged me £8 15s. 6d. That is
a fact. I wrote to the tailor and asked, “ What did you
want to put the sixpence on for ? ” In England they do
not know Australia. When I have done living I hope to
die and let my bones lie in Australia.
It made very pleasant reading; but then for
Australian beef-eaters Kidman spoiled it all by
adding—“l don’t think cattle will be cheap this
year.’ You see, Kidman has to get back that
sixpence somehow.
Some Australian birthdays for April :
Judge Docker (N.S.W.), 67 on the Ist; Dr. W. E.
Roth (Q.), 48 on the 2nd ; Parson Jefferis (S.A.),
76, and A. M. Simpson (S. A.’s biggest manufac-
turer), 66 on the 4th ; Canon Boyce, 65, Bill Lyne,
65, E. T. Smith (S.A.’s most popular knight), 79
on the 6th ; Parson Edgar (Melb.), 59 on the Bth ;
Federal Minister Batchelor, 44 on the 10th;
Lieutenant-Governor Way (S.A.), 73 on the 11th;
Lachlan McKinnon (of the Argus) 61 on the 12th ;
Dr. Quick, 57 on the 14th ; George Brookman
(who gave £15,000 to Adelaide’s Technical
School), 59, and A. W. Meeks, 60 on the 15th ;
Parson Dove (Adelaide’s oldest archdeacon), 76,
Scientist Tepper (S.A.), who objects to the killing
of sparrows, 68 on the 19th ; Federal Minister
Hutchison, 50 on the 20th; E. Northcote, general
manager, Adelaide Steamship Co., 55 on the 21st;
L. E. Groom, M.H.R, 420 n the 22nd ;W. Knox,
M. 59, Botanical Gardens Director Maiden
(Sydney), 50 on the 25th ; Deputy P.M.G. Waddy
(S. A.), 61, Editor Sowden (S. A.), 51 on the 26th ;
Richard Teece (of the A.M.P.), 62 on the 29th ;
and F. B. Suttor, 70 on the 30th.
Died in his bed, last week, H. Spruit,
master mariner. Spruit dodged Davy Jones’ locker
many a time and oft for nearly 30 years, mostly in
Australian waters. About his nearest acquaint-
anceship with Jones was when he was master of
The Bulletin’s old friend, the coal ship Atacama,
which drowned itself a few days after leaving
Sydney. Spruit was one of the survivors, and got
to dry land again after hair-raising experiences.
SO OBLIGING.
The King and Queen have graciously agreed that the
Queen’s name may be conferred upon the mountains dis-
covered by Lieutenant Sbackleton near the South Pole.
News Item.
THE MOUNTAINS (in chorus): “This sort of
thing is enough to make a feller thaw.”
The father of editor-proprietor Bonython,
of the Adelaide Advertiser, has just passed out
at the age of 89. It was his first illness, and, not
being used to things of that sort, it killed him.
He died with a good record as a sturdy, upright
citizen, and a man who had never to his own
knowledge swallowed any medicine during the
first 88 years of his existence.
A SONG OF SNAKES AND LOANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Snakes and the man I sing :
Snakes in his watertights,
Snakes in his dancing-pumps,
Snakes in his carpet shoes,
Snakes in a snakeless land;
Serpents imported here —
Beautiful snakes.
Joseph G. Ward,
Statesman and Premier,
Mighty financier,
Worker of wonders,
Boss of the show.
Lo, where his eloquence
Talketh in millions,
Millions on millions,
Borrowed from Cohen ;
Also from Abraham,
Left as a legacy,
All for the little ones,
Kept for the curly-haired
Baby to pay.
See where he vaunteth him,
Proud of his surpluses,
Brags of his revenue,
Laudeth his estimates,
Maoriland’s king.
Bridges of destiny,
Roads of especially
Cheap popularity,
Tracks of utility,
Each for some voter’s sake
Threading the wilderness,
Leading with certainty
To a back yard.
Bought with the millions,
Millions on millions,
Furnished by Abraham,
Cohen and Solomon,
Also by Benjamin,
Patrons of settlement,
Pork-hating Yids.
Railways that run at times,
Once in a week or so,
Opening up scenery,
Beautiful scenery,
Fern-trees and waterfalls ;
Ridges of pumice-stone,
Good when you wash your hands,
Leased to Angora goats—
Land that is worth at most
Twopence a mile.
Opened with millions,
Millions on millions,
Carrying interest
Right to the crack of doom,
Left for the curly-haired
Baby to pay.
Billets for everj’one,
Uncles and sons-in-law,
Frederic and Josephine
Placed in the Post Office,
Tom on the Railways,
James in the Trust Office,
John in the Customs ;
Those with no brains at all
Made stock inspectors—
Plentiful salaries
Found for them all.
Paid with the millions,
Millions on millions,
Borrowed from Cohen,
Millions on millions—
Rodents on rodents.
Rats upon rats!
Joseph G. Ward,
Statesman and Premier,
Mighty financier,
Pledging the future,
Staking the baby,
Smiling triumphantly,
Joseph the Great.
Snakes in his watertights,
Snakes in his dancing pumps,
Snakes in his carpet shoes,
Snakes in a snakeless land ;
Serpents imported here,
Wonderful snakes.
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.
AN IMPOSSIBLE VISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If he were dictator of England, and had plenty of
money, he would not hesitate to give the order to the
British Admiral to seize the German fleet at once. (Cheers
and laughter.) He would do it at once, if he had to be
turned out of office afterwards. (Laughter.)— E. W.
Owe’Sullivan.
Can you imagine Owe’Sullivan crowned?
Crowned and govvned !
With flunkeys and chancellors grouped around,
And a British sea-dog ready to bound
At the German’s throat,
Like a savage stoat,
Or a maddened bailiff or wild bloodhound?
Can you imagine Owe’Sullivan King?
(Hail, Owe King !)
And paying spot cash for everything ?
Informing his treasurers they will swing
If their I O U’s
And other refuse
Within gunshot range of his palace they bring !
Can you imagine Owe’Sullivan throned
(Throned /—not loaned !)
With a paid-for navy he clearly owned
And a heap of subjects who never groaned
At the kingly waste
When the bill they faced
And the load of int’rest too long postponed?
I can’t imagine these wonderful things 1
Owes—like kings—
Soar in their visions on angel wings,
Where the minor poet who hoarsely sings
Of the passing show
Isn’t game to go.
(Such heights
Are reserved
For the Great—
And Owe!)
N.S.W.
E. F.


tree Gifts fete cigars
w
The MATADOR
with the little
Green Band.
Make Smoking a Profit
As well as a Pleasure.
Instead of the ordinary costly advertising
methods, the proprietors of the famous “Hansa”
and “Matador” Cigars have decided to spend the
money in providing free gifts for the smokers of
these popular brands as explained below.
All you have to do is to save the little red
“Hansa” bands or the little green “Matador”
bands until you have a sufficient number to
secure your own choice of the handsome gifts
illustrated on this page.
“fiansas” and “Matadors” are the finest
cigars sold in Australia. Their reputation
has been built up on quality, and will be main
tained and strengthened by never-varying ex-
cellence. THEY HAVE BY FAR THE LARGEST
SALE OF ANY 3d. CIGARS SOLD IN AUS-
TRALIA.
M
r kaffi
ft
The HANSA
with the little
Red Band.
M/IT/IDOR Bands
For a
CUT GLASS BOTTLE OF
FINEST QUALITY “ LAROONA ”
PERFUME (Violet Odor)
. --
Collect
250 Hansa Bands, or
250 Matador Bands.
For a
GBNT.’S WATCH
(GUNMETAL NON-
MA GNETIC.LEVER)
Collect
400 Hansa Bands, or
400 Matador Bands.
For a
LARGE SIZE FINE
QUALITY DARK MOROCCO
PEGGY BAG
Collect
300 Hansa Bands, or
300 Matador Bands.
For a
“PIRATE” ALARM
CLOCK
Collect
300 Hctnsa Bands, or
300 Matador Bands.
For a
HALL-MARKED SILVER
PHOTO. FRAME
-
Collect
250 Hans a Rands, or
250 Matador Bands.
For a.
LADY’S GOOD-
QUALITY GUN-
METAL WATCH
Collect
400 Hanses Sunils
or
400 Matador
Bands.
For a
FIRST QUALITY PAIR OF
BLECKMANN’S SCISSORS
Collect
SO Hansct Bands, or
50 Matador Bands.
For a
PAIR OF FOWNES’ REAL
FRENCH KID GLOVES (brown
color, sizes 6£ or 6k)
Collect
200 Hansel Bands, or
200 Matador Bands.
For a
LADY’S LEATHER WATCH.
WRISTLET
Collect
150 Hansa Bands, or
150 Matador Bands.
For a
HALL-MARKED SILVER PENCIL
CASE
Collect
100 Hansa Bands, or
100 Matador Bands.
For a
“ MODEL ” FOUNTAIN PEN
(WITH 14ct. GOLD NIB)
CoFeet
200 Heins a Bands, or
200 Matador Bands.
For a pair of
GENT.’S mi LIT ARY (EBONISED)
HAIR BRUSHES
;
Colled
400 Hansa Bands, or
400 Matador Bands.
For a
HALL-MARKED SILVER
SHOEHORN
Collect
150 Hansa Bands, or
150 Matador Bands.
For a
LADY’S HALL-MARKED SILVER
HAIR BRUSH
Collect
500 Hansa Bands, or
500 Matador Bands.
For a
LADY’S E.P. SILVER HAND
MIRROR
u,
Collect
500 Hansa Bands, or
500 Matador Bands.
For a First Quality
TWO-BLADE NICKEL (“ HA VE-
LOCK’ ) POCKET KNIFE
Collect
SO Hansa Bands, or
SO Matador Bands.
For a
FIRST QUALITY “MATCH II."
FOOTBALL (with Macintosh
Bladder)
Collect
750 Hansa Bands, or
750 Matador Bands.
DIRECTIONS .
Send of Post the Bands to any of the undermentioned firms, and WRITE YOUR OWN
NAME and ADDRESS ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE PACKAGE; also advise, in
SEPARATE LETTER, the number of Bands forwarded and which gift you desire.
The Gifts can be obtained on personal application to, or free through the post, from
H, PEEMOLLER, 40 COOPER STREET, SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY;
STATES TOBACCO CO., 46 a'BECKETT STREET, MELBOURNE; or
KRONHEIMER LTD., 153 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE; IJ3 GRENFELL
STREET, ADELAIDE; or 380 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR LEAFLET GIVING COLORED
ILLUSTRATIONS OF ALL THE GIFTS.
For a
DUKE’S No. 3 P.K.D.
F/RST QUALITY
CRICKET BALL
i
Collect
500 Hctnsci Bands, or
500 Matador Bands.
“ Let him now smoke who never smoked before,
.■ f .
And he who smoked before now smoke the more.”


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Society's trials in and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“NATIONAL " ENGINES* STOCKED IN SYDNEY
»- Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold Gold Estates,
BOD ANGORA,
N.S.W.
ni a ffnifi ce nt Plant has been purchased by us from the Liquidators in the Estate of the late
JAS». DICK, and comprises practically new complete 40-Head Tubular Frame Stamper Battery of 10001 b
Stamps, Compound Surface Condensing Corliss Engine, First Motion Winding Engine, Double I4in‘
Cylinders, and Three High-Pressure Cornish Boilers, all by Thompson, of Castlemaine. Three large Air
Compressors, Stonebreakers, and enormous lot of miscellaneous Mining Plant. Complete Catalogues in course
of preparation, and will be sent post free on application. CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
———__ Post Office Chambers, Sydney ; also Melbourne, Ballarat and Bendigo.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
® hamr °ck Brewing and Malting Co.
(Melbourne): —
Net jj e _ jj e .
TQnn ’ Dividends. serves. serves,
lorn " £ ™? 9 8 p.c. = £8612 £5697 £11,528
1902 ** B >> » 3012 3033 15.1 0 7
" 8044 8 » » 3612 3032 18,199
ionf ” 43 ' 7 B >> -> 3612 765 18,964
1904 .. 5008 8„ „ 3612 1396 20,360
i6ru- " ??? 8 8 >• - 3612 1016 21,376
IWH) .. 1402 6„ „ 2709 20,119
fona ” , 624 4 ” >' 1806 18,937
1908 .. 1608 4,, „ 1806 18,739
This was one of the half-dozen Melbourne brewery cos.
which carried through an amalgamation during 1907.
Under the scheme the Shamrock was to have 10 per cent, of
the stock in the United Breweries ; and so the holding ap-
pears as an asset for £72,500. On the other side, however,
as a good deal of that £72,500 represented goodwill, the
co. entered up “ Assets .Realisation Account, to provide
for depreciation, £58,000.” Presumably the other £14,500
lepresented substantial assets taken over. For the first
half-year (ihe last half of 1907), the United Breweries
paid a div. at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum : and the
same for the first half of 1908. But “ the United 00.
recent,l y Bpent a very large sum of money upon
additions and improvements to buildings and plant, the
lioard of that co. does not consider it expedient for
financial reasons to pay a dividend for the past half-
year , so this co. has to pass a div. also (an interim div.
was paid at the half-year). According to chairman
r'inschof at the Carlton Brewery meeting the other day,
the United Co.’s expenditure on buildings and plant
had totalled about £70,000, which, he said, had been paid
out of profits. It seems a very large amount to pay out
oi the profits of a concern which has been running 1 only
tt n '°', lC i? s ' Unfortunately, however, no accounts of the
United Co. are published ; so that, unless a man has inside
information—which, in the absence of documents, is very
vi iI. U t 0 ” e misinformation—he can nowadays only regard
Melbourne brewery investments as a violent gamble. All
the information he gets from the accounts of the con-
stituent half-dozen cos. is that such and such a dividend
has been received from the United Co. ; but he can’t tell
what profits have been made in excess of the div. And if
the United Co. is in a position to spend £70,000 out of
profits that have been earned, the excess must be-
very considerable. However, the £70,000, “ spent
out of profits,” are not this paper’s figures,
it must be clearly understood. The Shamrock Co.’s
biewery and malt house and the greater portion of its
plant are not being used by the United Co. Notwith-
standing that, however, there is, no doubt, considerable
depreciation : yet nothing is being written off out of
current revenue to coyer that depreciation—all that is
being charged is a trifle (lumped with other items) for
maintenance. Certainly one has to remember the Assets
Depreciation Fund already referred to ; but that does
not alter the fact that out of current revenue nothing is
being written off to cover current decay. All that can
be said on the other side is that something no doubt is
being- spent out of revenue to increase the value of the
co.’s interest in the Combine ; but whether that counter-
balances the other it is impossible to say. The whole-
position is vague and unsatisfactory ; and for a person
who wants to get his sleep, Melbourne brewery invest-
ments are at present very good things to leave alone.
* * * *
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Co.
. , „ c Trade Written
July, Profit. Bonus. Dividends. Off. Deficit
1994 ’• - - - £l9l
Reserves.
1905.. £8,558 £2,782 50 p.c. = £2,816 £1715 1,354
Premiums on new shares, £6094 .. 7’448.
1906.. 27,679 10,276 110 p.c. = 10,180 4000 10’671
Premiums on new shares, £18,084 .. 28 755
1907.. 32,325 12,567 76J p.c. = 12,543 2347 33,*623
Premiums on new shares, £299 .. 33.922.
1908.. 36,154 14,175 78£ p.c. = 14,001 3703 38,197
Premiums on new shares, £473 .. 38 670-
1909.. 32,536 15,960 86§ p.c. = 15,540 2049 37*657
Those are very dazzling figures. The dividends’for
the past year amount to 4s. 4d. per share (ss. paid)-
for the previous year the distribution was 3s. lid’
The oo.’s policy being to divide the profits equally
between shareholders and customers, a trade bonus,
at the rate of 6s. per hogshead is also paid ; the total of
this payment shown in the last line of the table above is
necessarily to some extent an estimate onlv. But so far
as some of the shareholders are concerned the div. doesn’t
mean 86£ per cent. In 1906, for instance, the then ex-
isting shareholders had to pay 30s. for their ss. shares.
At present, while the paid capital is £17,952, the pre-
mium capital (included with reserves) is £24,950; so
lumping the two together, the average return shrinks
from 86§ to 86J per cent., and even that, of course, is
magnificent. It should not have been paid, however • it-
is simply monstrous that, at a time when the co. ad-
mittedly needs more capital, the reserves should have
been drawn upon in order to provide a dividend of
that size. There has been a slight shrinkage in profits
on account of the high cost of supplies; yet
the dividend has actually been increased. Apart from
that, the results are amazingly good, especially if it can
be assumed that the co-operators pay no more for their-
beer than if they bought from the non-co-operative beer
foundries. They should undoubtedly do infinitely better
than the latter, because they are (or should be) at practi-
cally no expense to get business ; they haven’t got any
pubs at extravagant prices on their hands, and they
make no bad debts to speak of. (The provision for bad
debts last year was £lB5 ; for the year before that, £249.).
Moreover, there is no goodwill or other unproductive
paper among the assets the whole capital is represented
by things necessary to beer-making and distributing
The growth of the business is further shown hereunder
„ , 1905. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Capital .. .. £11,262 £17,842 £17,885 £17,952:
Debts (overdraft,
_ et . o ;) .•• •• 5 .907 6,048 15,871 17,405-
Buildings and
P l ®-" 6 ,-- •• 15,597 40,367 56,962 60,923:
Book debts .. 6,783 16,431 20,611 19,151
Stocks .. .. 1,424 5,097 6,834 6,902:
Cash, etc. .. 317 8,676 2,564 1,815-
“ The directors are of opinion that fresh capital should be
subscribed to enable them to introduce the very latest-
brewing- and bottling machinery, and otherwise bring the
brewery and plant thoroughly up to date, whereby great,
economies can be effected.” On that an important ques-
tion arises: presuming that some of the present plant
will be scrapped, has it been written down to nothing
out of profits ? If not, then some of what has hitherto-
been alleged to be profit has not been profit at all. If the-
new plant is to take the place of old plant, then only to
u t 0 whlch the new will cost more than the old
should the new be charged up to capital at all. On.
account ot its wonderful prosperity the co. had a magnifi-
cent chance, by moderating its dividends a trifle, to write-
down its assets hard, thus building up a replacement-
.nd out of which up-to-date appliances could be pro-
vided from time to time without piling up the capital
account. It isnt a cheerful thing to reflect that, while
the amounts written off have been by no means large
the additions to reserves (apart from premium capital),
have m four years amounted to only £11,353, while the
dividends have soared up to £52,264.
Even the Co-op. Brewery has a skeleton in its
cupboard. A big meeting' of the Liquor Trades Union
was held in Melbourne a week or so ago, at which it was
proposed that a trade-union brewery should be estab-
lished. In support, it was argued that the 00.-op.’s
profit for the year was £52,000 odd —which, by the way,
it wasn t; it was only that before paying cartage, salaries,
repairs, insurance, and a few dozen more items. It was
reckoned that there are 72,000 trades union members in
Melbourne, and that they would all drink trades
union beer—which isn’t at all certain ; and, any-
way, they don’t all drink beer. They do, how-
ever, all eat bread ; yet, though there is a big,
wholesome co-operative bread factory in Melbourne, up
to now it is dead certain that not more than one in 10 of
the trades unionists of Melbourne patronise it. And milk
what about milk ? Though co-operation is a fine thing
and ought to be adopted to a far greater extent, there
are some very good reasons why the trades union move-
ment shouldn’t tie itself up to the beer-pump or get itself
identified with the hogshead. Still, it is one of the pos-
sibilities that the Co-op. Co. has to face, though the
proposal has been hung up for 12 months.
* * * *
Castlemaine Woollen Co. (Vic.):—
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1902 .. 5 p.c. = £l3OO £2034
1903 ..£2214 4 „ ~ 1078 £4OO £736 2770
£lB9O of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 880
1904 .. 2155 4 p.c. = 1156 750 249 1129
1905 .. 1320 3 ~ „ 900 420 1549
1906 .. 1280 3 ~ „ 900 380 1929
1907 .. 2008 4 „ „ 1200 716 92 2021
1908 .. 3781 5 ~ ~ 1500 1500 781 2802
Dec.,
1908 .. 2491 2491 6293
Only interim accounts are now presented after the
December balance. The improved tariff shows its effect
in a slightly increased trade, and a much improved
wages bill. After the old Victorian tariff had gone,
and when Reid, Cook, McMillan and the other patriots
had hacked away at Kingston’s tariff, the foreigner had
such a good time that this co. could only pay £2261 in
wages in the second half of 1905. The Lyne tariff has so
far improved things that last half-year £4424, or just
about twice as much, was paid away in wages. And still
some Laborites “sink the fiscal issue.’’ The co. has a
paid capital of £30,000 ; but like most other insufficiently
protected Australian industries, it drifted deeplv into
debt. At present, apart from trade debts (£2139), it owes
in overdraft and to debenture-holders £20,329. It will
take a few years to get capitalists used to the idea that
Australia has made up its mind to offer sufficient
protection—no matter what that may be—to its own
industries. When that idea gets fixed, capital
will be available for these enterprises, and they won’t
have to rely upon the unsatisfactory method of finance
by overdrafts and mortgage debentures. When that
happens there probably won’t be such a rush to invest on
the security of country lands. This rush is largely
responsible for the outrageous prices to which those
lands have been forced, owing to the ease with which
increasing!}' large amounts can be borrowed to purchase
them.
* * * *
Kemptiiorne, Prosser and Co.’s New Zealand
Drug Co. (Dunedin, M. 1..): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Ke-
■Jan., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901.. _ _ £30,593
1902 -[ £2 ’ 747 7 P- c - = £13,549 £2554 17,237
” ( Premiums on shares issued .. £1527 18,764
1903 -f 14,941 7p ‘ c ’ = 13 .649 1292 20,056
” \ Premiums on shares issued .. 209 20,265
1904 i 16,479 7 p.c. = 13,683 2000 796 21,061
’• \ Premiums on shares issued .. 17 21,078
1905.. 15,466 7 p.c. = 13,686 1780 22,858
1906 { 16,250 7 ’’ » 13 > 76 1 2499 25.357
■' \ Premiums on shares issued .. 174 25,531
/ Depreciation account trans-
-1907.. -f ferred to general reserves .. 7851 33,382
l 18,652 7 p.c. = 14,000 3520 1132 34,514
1908.. 17,816 7 „ „ 14,000 1600 2216 36,730
1909.. 16,962 7 „ „ 14,000 1000 1962 38,692
In conjunction with that the following comparison had
better be read:—
1902. 1908. 1909.
'Capital £194,102 £200,000 £200,000
Overdraft .. .. .. _ 15,455
Other liabilities .. .. 36,507 90,670 75,774
Stock 146,247 175,486 181,347
Factories, premises, etc... 76,108 102,737 103,005
Book debts 45,201 57,823 56,829
Cash, etc 3,432 3,274
Everything hangs on the valuation of stock, premises,
plant, and book debts; and that a mistake niay easily be
made is proved by the fact that in 1902 £2554 had to be
written off on account of a previous over-valua-
tion of the stock at one of the branches. Appar-
ently against the book debts there is . a reserve
of £2993 ; but as this has remained stationary
for some years, and is apparently a special provi-
sion, it is included with the reserves shown above. It
will be noticed that large additions have been made to
'the property account during the past few years. These
have been years of very high prices ; and it remains to be
seen whether considerable amounts will not have to be
written off for depreciation. The amounts shown as
written off hitherto have been very small, though
possibly this may be more or less counterbalanced by
expenditure charged to working expenses; of that,
however, there is no sign.
* * * *
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
.ANCK Co., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Expenses Total Added
Total and Out- to
Aug., Income. Claims. Dividends, goings. Funds.
1899 .. £7,252 £992 £5,102 £6,094 £ll5B
1900 .. 9,386 1277 5,934 7,211 2175
1901 .. 11,023 1483 6,551 8,034 2989
Taken
from
Funds.
1902 .. 12,657 3775 13,633 17,408 4751
Added to
Funds.
1903 .. 17,235 2380 13,879 16,259 976
1904 .. 18,146 2765 13,964 16,729 1417
1905 .. 18,547 3665 12,412 16,077 2470
Taken
from
Pec-, Funds.
1905 .. 6,059 2019 4,091 6,110 51
Added to
Funds.
1906 .. 21,048 5767 12,801 18,568 2480
1907 .. 25,714 6348 14,737 21,585 4129
1908 .. 29,765 8281 17,144 25,425 4340
The co. tells a different tale. In 1898 it bought the pre-
mises of the Queensland Deposit Bank in Brisbane for about
£13,130, and promptly said that what it had just bought
for £13,130 was really worth £24,000 ; so bv the simple
process of writing up the property it added £10,095 to its
alleged funds. Two or three years later it wrote the
assets up by another £5500; but next year it repented,
and wrote them down again. The position therefore is
; as follows :
Total accumulated funds .. .. £2O 454
Office property written up (1898) .. £10,095 ’
Office property w'ritten up (1901) .. 5,500
£15,595
Office property written down (1902) 5,500
10,095
Insurance Fund as represented .. £30,549
tin those earlier days theco. had curious ideas, with many
■of which the latter-day managers have evidently no sym-
pathy. What, therefore, might reasonably be asked of
'the management is that, instead of adopting the old valu-
•ations, it should have a new and quite independent one
imade of the assets, and should present the figures accord-
ingly. Interest and rents for the past year total £1640
■On the other side, interest paid on loans totalled £338 •
so the net receipts from interest, etc., totalled £1302’
The mean funds, plus the co.’s capital, were, according-to
the co.’s claim, 189,461 (the amount is irrespective of £9OO
of share capital shown in the balance-sheet as paid up
during the year ; this is excluded because it may possibly
have been got in quite lately). On that amount of £39,461
the net interest earnings show only £3 6s. Od. per cent.
It is fairly obvious from this that, either the co. is not
charging itself enough for the rent of the part of the pre-
mises it occupies, or the assets are over-valued. In the
former case the expenses are really higher than the co.
alleges ; in the latter case the funds are really less than the
co. alleges. The management has shown numerous indi-
cations of a desire to go straight; and that being so, it
should overhaul its accounts.
The business is mainly of the Industrial class ;
some Ordinary business is done, but even in that section
the average amount of the policy is only £B2. The
accounts of the two sections are not kept separate. As
lumped, the figures give these results so far as expense
rate is concerned :
Outgoings (apart from Claims) Comparf.d with Income.
1901.. £59 8 7 per cent. 1905 .. £66 18 11 per cent.
1902 .. 107 14 3 „ 1906.. 62 6 4 „
1903.. 80 10 6 „ 1907 .. 57 6 2
1904.. 76 19 1 ~ 1908 .. 57 11 10 „
It is put that way—“ Outgoings (apart from claims)”—in
order to include dividends paid. These were drawn for
some time ; under the new order, however, none have
been paid for four years—which shows that the new
order is less disastrous than the old one was. The capital
is now £11,532. Apparently the dividends are not
cumulative. It is a scandalous thing, however,
that they might be, and yet the contingent liability need
not be noted on the balance-sheet. It is a rotten law
which allows even a life insurance concern to be conducted
like that. Still that apparently doesn’t apply to this co. ;
it has had its faults, but, so far as this paper knows, the
piling up of an unmentioned contingent liability for
cumulative dividends is not one of them. During the
year the quinquennial valuation of the co.’s liabilities was
make by actuary T. W. Bremner. The results are not
mentioned. With an expense rate of over £57, and with
so small a turn-over, they simply cannot, however, be satis-
factory. The shareholders, by the way, are entitled to one-
fifth of all bonuses declared, as in the case of the Citizens’.
During the year the co. sold its accident business to the
Metropolitan Accident, Fire and General Insurance Co.,
Ltd., but the transaction is not shown in these accounts.
Also, the co. has dropped pure endowment business on
the Industrial-side—an extremely dangerous class of busi-
ness, especially when the policies were short dated. The
change is another small sign of very necessary reform.
* « * *
The Squatting Investment Co. (Melbourne)
Net Added to Ke-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898 .. £39,624 2£ p.c. =£7,300 £32,324 £74,269
Loss.
1899 .. 38,092 2J „ „ 7,300 28,877
1900 .. 27,060 Nil 1,817
1901 .. 11,967 Nil D it?so
Profit.
1902 .. 3,847 Nil 3,847 6,303
„„„„ Reserves.
1903.. 15,023 2£ p.c. =£7,300 7,723 1 420
1904 .. 22,329 5 ~ ~ 14,600 7,729 9 149
1905 .. 19,605 5 ~ ~ 14,600 5,005 14J54
1906 .. 21,801 5 „ ~14,600 7,201 21,355
1907 .. 19,561 5,, ~ 14,600 4,961 26,316
Loss.
1908.. 8,816 4$ „,, 12,167 5,333
This makes out the past year’s history to be rather worse
than it really was ; also it makes out the previous year’s
to be rather better than it was. In February or there-
abouts, when the accounts are made up as at December
31, it is impossible to tell exactly what the year’s clip
will bring. The chief item on the revenue side of the
P. and L. account therefore must be an estimate. Two
years ago the estimate undershot the mark by £591,
and the 1907 accounts benefited to that extent ; 12
months ago the estimate overshot the mark by £2126,
wherefore to make the accounts square that amount has
to be charged against the past year. Even then, how-
ever, one gets an idea of what a gamble the wool-growing
business is, especially in the Far-out. (This co.’s squattage
consists of Thurulg-oona and Bundaleer, across the Queens-
land border.) In 1906 the wool clip was actually worth
£39,474, and owing to fine lambings and good seasons it
was possible to sell £12,792 worth of sheep. In 1907 the
clip sold for £37,135, and £14,741 worth of sheep were
sold. For the past year the clip is estimated at only
£30,917, and, instead of sales of sheep, £3799 had to be
spent in purchases, and another £5486 went in hand-
feeding, agistment, etc. With figures like that available
it can easily be seen how a big profit in one year is fol-
lowed by a heavy loss in another. The comparison which
comes next shows this up even more prominently :
Improvements, Net Gross
etc., written off. Profit. Profit.
1902 .. £10,621 £3,847 £14,468
1903 .. 679 15,023 15,702
1904 .. 5,303 22,329 27,632
1905 .. 4,805 19,605 24,410
1906 .. 11,158 21,801 32,959
1907 .. 12,409 19,561 31,970
Net Gross
Loss Trading Loss.
1908 .. 8,484 8,816 332
Since results vary so tremendously from year to year, or
rather from one run of seasons to another run, it, is only
to be expected that capital values of these properties
should also vary tremendousl} 7 . People have short
memories; also the hope that springs eternal in the
human breast whispers to Juggins that all the droughts
are past. Twenty-six years ago this co. was Juggins.
It bought the properties in a period of fatness, and soon
found that, besides droughts, it could get some new
curses as well—rabbits, for instance. Also it owed over
£250,000 on account of the purchase-money ; and it
began to regard that as something of a curse, too. It
got rid of part of it, however, by calling up another
£lOO,OOO. (The paid capital is now £292,005, in 97,335
shares of £3 10s. each, paid to £3.) Beyond a few small
trade debts, the co. now owes nothing except to its
bankers (£54,739, an increase of £12,834 during the year).
As the mortg-ages, etc., have been paid off, the assets
have been written down, which no doubt has helped in
keeping dividends so small. The record shown in the
table above is by far the best the co. has had ; for much
of the previous period it paid nothing at all, and for the
whole 26 years it has averaged a shade under 2 per cent,
per annum.
* * * *
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Mel-
bourne :
Written To Re- Re-
Dec.., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1899.. £1176 4 p.c. = £BOO £376 £923
1900.. 1926 4J „ „ 900 £457 569 1492
1901.. 1905 5 ~ ~ 1000 905 2397
1902.. 1818 5 „ ~ 1000 715 103 2500
1903.. 1464 4 ~ ~ 800 664 3164
Unclaimed dividends .. 20 3184
1904.. 1517 4 p.c. = £BOO 476 241 3425
1905.. 1537 4 „ „ 800 737 4162
1906.. 1665 4 „ „ 800 865 5027
1907.. 2792 5 „ „ 1000 1792 6819
1908.. 1895 5 „ „ 1000 895 7714
The capital is now £20,000. It used to be £40,000 ; but
the co. had borrowed £25,000 on its premises, and when
the boom broke 16 years ago there was still that much
owing. After the fashion of mortgages, this one didn’t
shrink so much as n., even though the boom value had
disappeared ; consequently to level things down the co.
had to go without dividends for many years (it only began
again in 1899, the year with which the above list opens);
and even then half the capital had to be struck off. The
divs. have been kept moderate, and the long, w'eary
struggle to wipe out the mortgage, and get out of pawn,
has so far progressed that on December 31 there remained
£18,361 of the original £25,000 or £26,000. In addition,
however, £l5OO has been paid, and £lOOO is owing, for a
scrap of ground adjoining the main property. The whole
premises account now stands at £42,530 ; this is apart, of
course, from machinery, plant, etc.
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vic.)
p . To Re- Re-
Tar. inno «?»!, Dividends. serves. serves.
Ju?v J 25" 14p.c- = £4725 - £64,359
ln A?" ® 944 14 .. 4725 £319 64,678
Jan., 1904.. 4554 14 507
rif 994 -- 5012 14 „ ” 4725 287 64’794
Jan., 1905.. 4438 14 4725 64 507
Tai y ’ Ioor" 12 ” ” 4050 750 65,’257
1 Ja™ 44 ’’ 5 12 » .. 4050 405 65,662
- 44 12 12 „ „ 4050 62 65,724
4997 -- 4376 12 „ „ 4050 326 66,050
T ,l y ’ S" 0 971 12 » - 4050 65 - 971
499 8.. 3680 12 „ „ 4050 65,601
Juiy, 1908.. 3413 10 ~ „ 3375 38 65,639
Jan., 1909.. 4019 10 ~ „ 3375 644 66,283
This co. has done a shade better during the past half-
year , but the improvement is due, not to increase in the
sales of gas, but evidently to a better price for, or larger
sales of coke. The following comparison, showing the
actual trading profit, gives a better idea of how things
have been shaping:—
Trading Written Depreciation
_ Profit. Off. Reserve, etc.
Jan., 1901 .. £5124 £687 £61,353
„ 1902 .. 5134 1123 61,610
„ 1906 .. 4726 605 62,803
„ 1907 .. 4875 786 63,079
„ 1908 .. 4223 886 63,062
~ 1909 .. 4575 801 62,996
Interest earnings, of course, are not included with the
trading profit. Thus the half-year’s profit, as shown in
the first table, is made up of trading profit £4575, plus
interest £245 (total £4820); less £BOl spent on renewals
and written off = £4019. The co.’s trouble is that, while
the mines have to a great extent shrivelled up, the agri-
cultural development of the marvellously rich district
has been blocked by big estates ; and on top of those
troubles the electric light has arrived, and the repairs,
replacements, etc., have gradually called for more money
an increase which is shown more forcibly in the figures
for the other half of the year, when most of the repairs,
etc., are done. The reserves are mainly used in the busi-
ness ; the net liquid assets on Jan. 31 totalled £19,214.
* * * •
The Farmers and Dairymen’s Milk Co.
(N.S.W.)
Unex-
plained Total
Addi- Added
Trading tions to to Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves, serves.
1900.. £667 Nil £516 £llB3 £4,237
1901.. 874 Nil 656 1530 5,767
1902.. 396 Nil 800 3196 6,963
1903.. 1038 10 p.c. = £163 403 1278 8,241
1904.. 1025 10 „ ~ 146 612 1491 9,732
Taken from
Reserves
without
Explanation.
1905.. 312 10 p.c. = 145 90 77 9,809
Added to
Reserves
without
Explanation.
1906.. 727 10 p.c. = 142 897 1482 11,291
1907.. 440 10 „ „ 142 1277 1575 12,866
1908.. .696 10 ~ ~ 142 856 1310 14,176
The Bulletin has only a vague idea what it all means.
In three years, the trading profit, as shown by profit and
loss account, has totalled £1763 ; yet £3030 additional
has been added to the reserves, and Heaven (and pre-
sumably the management) knows where the latter comes
from. Are these reserves at all, or are they merely pro-
vision to cover depreciation, etc., which has actually
occurred? The latter is the more likely. The accounts,
as presented, are utterly unsatisfactory ; and the law
which allows them to be presented in this way badly
needs amendment. There is, in fact, not a single impor-
tant feature of the accounts that is satisfactory. In Profit
and Loss account the whole of the outgoings are lumped,
including salaries, repairs and renewals, directors’ and
auditors’ fees, bad debts, and depreciation. The live
capital is £1395 ; the forfeited capital is £lBO7. A co.
with a record like that can’t afford to smother things up
in a lump. The liabilities (including £9221 of overdraft)
are £13,865. Against that £27,813 represents buildings
and plant, and other items (chiefly stock) total £4574.
Seeing that plant and buildings represent nearly three
times the capital and the profit and loss balance com-
bined, it is a matter of great importance to know whether
a proper amount is written off to cover depreciation.
»■*•*•*
The Warwick Butter and Dairying Co.
(Queensland): —
Bonus Writ-
to ten De-
Loss. Dividend. Clients. Off. licit.
Preliminary Expenses .. .. £329
June, 1903 .. £lOl Nil 430
Dec., 1903 .. 161 Nil 591
June, 1904 .. 112 Nil 703
Profit.
Dec., 1904 .. 506 Nil 197
Loss.
June, 1905 .. 438 Nil 630
Profit. Reserves
Dec., 1905 .. 1610 8 p.c. = £99 £332 549
June, 1906 .. 789 8,, ~134 £546 491 167
Dec., 1906 .. 1058 8,, ~ 166 568 491
June, 1907 .. 772 8,, ~ 210 330 723
Dec., 1907 .. 298 Nil 1021
Forfeited Capital, £24 .. 1045
June, 1908 .. 2007 16 p.c. = £547 670 769 1066
Dec., 1908 .. 1477 Nil 361 2182
The capital is £6397; liabilities total £B2BB, against
which, besides plant, buildings, etc., the co. had book
debts amounting to £B9lB, stock £1667, and £2ll in cash,
as well as a few small investments in other co-operative
concerns. The directors have decided that the dividend
should be paid only once a year.. The amount written off
to provide for depreciation is at the rate of 10 per cent,
per annum.
* * * *
The City Electric Light Co. was formed m 1905
to take over the undertaking of the Brisbane Electric
Supply Co. The purchase price was £35,257 exclusive of
plant; presumably the greater part of that, therefore,
represented goodwill. The original co. held three orders-
in-council, entitling it to certain small areas; and a
further small area has been acquired in the same way
(1908). They all expire at virtually the same time, in or
about 1940. The co., which has now a paid capital of
£73,454, puts £lOOO a year to a Franchise and Purchase
Sinking Fund Account, that amount being necessary'
to wipe out the purchase price by 1940. It. is
not clear whether the co.’s rights absolutely expire at
that date ; some of them certainly do. The capital is in
20,000 6 per cent, preference shares, 40,000 ordinary-
shares fully- paid, 37,500 ordinary- shares paid to an aver-
age of about Bs. (calls are being made on these), and 2500
employees’ shares (these last are apparently issued in
connection with a profit-sharing scheme). For the earlier
years of the co., accounts were not published ; but for the
six months to July, 1908, the net profit was £2226 after
providing £5OO for the previously-mentioned sinking
fund and an unmentioned amount for depreciation. For
the half-year to January 31 the net profit was
£3434, after making the following appropriations :
£3893 to Renewal, Replacement and Contingencies
account, £l5O to Accident Insurance account, and £5OO
to the sinking fund. For the past half-year 6 per cent, is
paid on pref. shares, and 8£ per cent, on ordinaries ; for
the previous half 6 per cent, was paid all round. The
past half-year’s div., with duty, will absorb £3Oll, leaving
£423 to be added to reserves ; the latter will then consist
of—Renewal and contingencies fund, £15,535 ; accident
insurance fund, £6OO ; sinking fund, £2500 ; and profit
and loss balance, £1935. The renewal reserve and sink-
ing fund are, of course, not true reserves. It does not
appear, either, that the sinking fund is a true sinking
fund, for apparently its own interest earnings are not
added to it. The financial position, as at January 31
was—Liquid assets, £6478 ; liabilities, £3120 ; surplus’
£3358. The directors report a steady increase in the sale
of electricity-.


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:- U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“ VIA PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Honter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANKOE C.M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) .. 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF CWALIA 8.84 „
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
LOHMANN <& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
sole acehtB for nffOS AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlig, Cologne, as
supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY a Excavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of ail kinds. [8
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. . _
Ore Silver, Lead, Gross Divi-
to is oz. tons. Profit, dends.
v „ iqo9 334 709 2,798,020 33,522 £73,459 £48,000
289 263 2,419;367 32,029 77,903 48,000
Vov’ tqnV’ 283 282 2,462,776 30,50 S 91,999 48,000
305 512 2,525,576 34,280 126,874 120,000
XoT’ got” 324,535 2; 5 64;342 35,552 158,274 96,000
Uiv * 1905 297,827 2,705,929 34,747 170,149 144,000
Vnv 905 309.971 2,896,585 34,479 227,300 144,000
\fav’ 1906 229,247 2,202,364 27,865 203,473 192,000
\ov’ 1906" 293,271 2,413,066 29,383 345,622 240,000
Viav * 1907 290,088 2,695,800 29,427 331,125 240,000
Nov 1907 312,158 2,785,535 29,612 153,599 288,000
May,’ 1908.. *273,557 2,102,559 25,407 30,389 72,000
Nov., 1908.. *264,847 34,430 Nil
‘Company’s own ore only.
At the end of 1907 the co., finding its own ore reserves
erowinw small, and that the developments in the bottom
levels were very unsatisfactory, decided on going into
business as an ore-buyer. For the first half-year under
the new policy it was possible to distinguish between the
metal derived from the purchased and the co.’s own ore ;
but that line has now been blotted out. The only com-
parison possible is this :
Total Silver. Total Lead.
May 1908 .. 2,529,7790 z. 36,140 tons.
Nov.’, 1908 .. 2,926,148,, 47,842 „
From the large increase in the metal output, coupled
with the decrease in the co.’s own ore handled (as shown
in the table), it is clear that the quantity of purchased
concentrates largely increased during the last term. The
Working account shows that £242,558 was paid for ore
(including concentrates) during the half-year ; for the
previous half the total was £50,421. The co.’s gross pro-
fit was, as shown, £34,430, made up as follows
Working account .. .. £24,496
Interest 9,785
Fees, etc 149
Total .. £34,430
The directors’ report says that the profit includes “ £7OBO
refund adjustment on Income Tax account,” but this is
not shown in the published accounts. From the gross
profit £8639 is deducted for depreciation, leaving
£25,791 net. The amount deducted for depreciation is
ridiculously small. It is equal to only about 3J per cent,
per annum of the book value of the plant, which is not
much more than one-third of the fair charge. Under
ordinary circumstances at least £20,000 would be written
off. It has been suggested that, because of the row with
the workmen, the present report and accounts may have
been made as gloomy as possible. Here at any rate is
some evidence that it might well have been made gloomier.
There is, however, another way of testing the
history of the past 12 months :
Nov., 1907. Nov., 1908.
Stores, etc. .. £152,605 £277,395
Debtors .. .. ,19,478 52,656
Bullion, etc. .. 206,995 273,318
Cash 45,204 34,880
Reserve Funds .. 260,000 260,000
£684,282 £898,249
Less Debts.. .. 186,811 440,519
Surplus £497,471 £457,730
Surplus, Nov., 1907 . .. .. ..£497,471
„ „ 1908 457,730
Decrease £39,741
Dividends paid meantime 72,000
Year’s profit, after paying for works,
plant, etc. .. £32,259
During the past half-year £28,739 has been spent on
works, plant, etc.; in the previous six months, £30,462 ;
total for the year, £59,201.
The average price of lead for the half-year was
£l3 4s. 7d. The gross profit derived from the mine (dis-
regarding the Income-Tax adjustment mentioned above)
was £24,496. The total lead produced (including that
from purchased ore) was 47,842 tons. Therefore the
whole gross profit from the mine—including that derived
from zinc—was at the rate of 10s. 3d. per ton of the lead
produced. This would make the cost price of producing
lead £l2 14s. 4d. per ton, without any deduction for
wear and tear of plant, and assuming that no profit what-
ever was made from the zinc. If any of the profit was
made from zinc, then of course the cost price of the lead
was more than £l2 14s. 4d. The present market quota-
tion for the metal is £l3 12s. 6d.
No new estimate of ore reserves is furnished in
the report; but the chairman said at the half-yearly
meeting on Friday that the reserves totalled 2,735,153
tons. This is equal to years’ supplies at last half-year’s
reduced rate of extraction. As to the exploration in the
lower levels, the directors say: “Developmental work
has, unfortunately, not proved as satisfactory as was
anticipated ; but at the 900 ft. level good ore, though of
no great extent,'is being met with. At the 1300 ft. level
the limit of the ore body has been reached at the northern
end, while at the southern end the metallic contents have
decreased in value. At the 1400 ft. level the drive both
north and south is in country rock, though the general
manager states that going south the drive may again get
into ore.” The latter is highly probable. That the
wonderful ore body is pitching out of the B. H.
Prop, is certain ; but that it will entirely disappear at
1400 ft. is very unlikely. With every 100 ft. in depth the
B. H. Prop will have less of the lode ; but it will probably
be 1600 ft. or 1700 ft. before it is lost altogether. After that —
well, the co. will have to rely on the huge surface dumps,
which are rich in zinc; on its plant, to deal with pur-
chased ore ; and on the possibility of picking up either a
lower payable shoot (which isn’t very likely) or parallel
bodies (which is possible, though the search will be
costly).
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction shareholders are frying in
their own fat. Six months ago the Broken Hill share-
holders sought the scalp of the chairman, because of the
tinpot methods adopted by the Board in developing the
mine. They didn’t get the scalp, but they accepted, in-
stead, a local director who was going to cure all the ills
they had suffered from. The local director promised he
would shake things up, and made a good deal of noise to
that effect before he was elected; but since then
he has been as mute as a busted concertina.
And now the Broken Hill shareholders are looking for
his scalp. For they allege that the Board has not
seriously tried to develop the mine—at least, not for the
Junction 00. A shaft has been sunk to 1100 ft., but that
will only be of immediate value in the event of the pro-
perty being secured by the neighboring Junction North.
The shaft has been put down over 300 ft. without a level
being driven, and as the available money has been spent
in shaft-sinking, the mine can’t be developed worth a
cent for some time to come now. A little diamond-
drilling was done, certainly, and an ore body west on
the 900 ft. level was proved. But anyone would think it
was a hornet’s nest from the way the directors let it
alone. The Junction management is something like a
merry-go-round. Every now and again it puts on a great
spurt, but it never gets anywhere.
* * » *
As the result of a special report made by
Manager Campbell, of the True Blue, on the Barrier
mine(VVyalong, N.S. \V.), a new system of working has been
adopted, which may give the property a chance. The
shaft is down some 55ft. from the 400 ft. on 6in. of
mineralised stone, and better progress is being made in
sinking. It is intended to open out at 500 ft.
* » * *
Y-Water, Emmaville (N.S.W.), is still the un-
known xto the outer world. This is hard to understand,
when 22,100 cub. yards of tailings just handled
gave 51b. streamed tin per cub. yard. In the
lead proper, the wash goes about lib. per cub.
yard, which is considered “to be very satisfactory.”
Last six months’ working account fails to show whether
this is so or not. What is plain is that a tin co. with 52,000
shares has to hustle to pay divs., especially when water
is so precious a commodity as it is up Inverell way. Other
people seem to think the same thing, as nearly 7000
shares have been forfeited. There is also a trifle of £2230
owing the bank. The idea is to work on a big scale with
large paddocks. The water question is the most serious
problem to be faced, for the rainfall is irregular and the
evaporation high ; but pluck and brains and hard cash
will help wonderfully.
Principal Westralian results for February: —
Value
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, per ton
£/ £>
Great Boulder .. 14,759 44,010 23,689 59/7
Golden Horseshoe .. 21,933 50,272 20,132 45/10
Ivanhoe .. .. 18,023 41,229 21,039 45/9
Kalgurli 10,020 27,060 15,353 54/-
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 10,585 19,908 8,073 37/-
Boulder Perseverance 16,990 25,976 7,109 30/7
Sons of Gwalia .. 12,170 20,533 7,355 33/9
Associated .. .. 10,881 21,989 6,638 40/5
Great Fingall.. .. 13,140 13,958 111 21/3
Lake View Consols .. 7,306 8,580 2,743* 23/5
Associated Northern 3,410 6,596 2,738 38/8
Oroya-Black Range.. 4,410 11,074 4,221 50/-
Hills Proprietary .. 1,050 2,901 1,951 55/3
Golden Ridge .. 2,170 5,553 2,808 51/2
Black Range.. .. 2,115 6,926 3,234 65/6
Mararoa .. .. 1,885 4,072 2,066 43/2
Gwalia South.. .. 1,800 4,725 1,309 52/6
IdaH 1,100 3,121 549 56/9
Golden Links.. .. 3,222 6,238 709 38/9
Hainault .. .. 4,728 6,189 212 26/2
Vivien .. .. •• 2,943 3,820 391 26/
Karangahake .. .. 606 1,210 35 40/-
Northern Mines . 7,466 6,565 9 17/7
Cumberland .. .. 647 1,433 18 44/3
Orion 540 1,344 434 49/9
North White Feather 2,100 3,001 442 28/7
Loss.
Boulder No. 1.. .. 2,455 2,171 174 17/8
•Including £770 earned from treating Golden Links ore,
and £1127 derived from re-treating old slimes.
.*■***
Coolgardie Tindal’s accounts for the year just
ended reveal the sort of secrets The Bulletin expected.
Receipts total £11,735, of which £11,728 represents gold
sales and £7 shares sold. Working expenses (Coolgardie
and Melbourne) are set down at £9807, so that, on paper,
a working profit of £1928 is shown. But as only 184 ft. of
development was done during the year, and as machinery
debts totalling £3833 were incurred in the same period, it
is clear that this result was only arrived at by skimping
underground work to a reprehensible degree and handing
the plant-seller’s bills on to the future to settle up. By
doing this a fictitious idea of the year’s operations is con-
veyed, and on the strength of that it is highly probable
that a fictitious value is put upon the shares.
It is when one turns to the balance-sheet that the finan-
cial mess in which the co. is wallowing is discovered.
When the books closed there was a debit balance (prin-
cipally money owing on plant) of £3005; yet the
chairman told shareholders that a further expenditure of
£4OOO in plant had been decided upon. Seeing that the
co. is saddled enough with machinery debts already, and
mindful of the fact that development has been allowed to
slide, the present somehow does not seem a good time
to order more plant. Among other things the meeting
was told that, in sinking to get a foundation for the mill,
a reef was struck which assayed better than the other
lodes. Yet apparently the mill was perched on top of it.
Why ? Has Tindall’s so much wealth that it can afford
to waste its richest reef by building a mill on top of it ?
* • *
The management of Gwalia Consolidated, at
Wiluna (W.A.), claims that a working profit of over£3ooo
is being earned monthly ; but as all this and a bit more
besides is swallowed up in capital and other expenditure,
a lot of gilt has to be scraped off this achievement.
Another thing that tells against the stock is the local
allegation that the new process for getting the gold out
of the soft puggy formation is, like its predecessors, a
failure. There must be a screw loose or out of place
somewhere, as, despite the high falutin talk of the mine
authorities and the newspaper yarn about “ 100 head of
stamps being installed in the near future,” the market
seems more inclined to fall than to rise.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) still fills out. The south
shoot is worth 50s. per ton for a width of nearly 40ft. in
the crosscut at the 14th level, and the main shoot also
looks well in the bottom workings a few hundred feet
below this depth. The former run of gold has already
been opened up at several points between the 7th and
14th levels, where it ranges from 120 ft. to 150 ft. in length,
and measures from Bft. to over 30ft. in thickness. In the
adjoining Gwalia South its mill value, taking the good
with the bad, has been a shade under 525. per ton for
close on 100,000 tons treated. The Sons of Gwalia must
have a much bigger tonnage of this quality of ore, but so
far very little of it has been included in the reserves.
Taking all the sources of mill supplies into account, the
mine may be safely reckoned to be from three to four
years ahead of the plant, although perhaps the annual
report. which has just reached the English office, may
hedge a bit on this point.
* * * *
Recent (developments in Chaffers (W.A.) are a
bit puzzling. The crosscut put out from the new shaft
at 200 ft. passed through what was believed to be the
continuation of the lode worked by the tribute parties,
but assays were disappointing. Now a 12ft. body of
oxidised ore worth 14dwt. per ton has been cut some dis-
tance further in. The interesting question is, Is the
latter formation a branch of the tributor’s shoot, or an
entirely new make of ore? Mostly everyone on the spot,
including the local paper, has been passing sleepless
nights trying to master this problem.
4 * * *
In Hans Irvine’s Black Range (W.A.), assum-
ing the estimates of quantities and values are all right,
there ought to be well over £1 per share above the No. 6
level. Everything beyond that, of course, depends on
the gold lasting in depth. One shoot has already gone
wrong in this respect, and experts who know something
about the district are not sure about the one now being
worked. But, then, nearly everyone is suspicious about
quartz mines in the West.
* * * *
Six months ago the Ringarooma (Tas.) made a
break in its long succession of losses ; but it has slipped
back into its old habits :
Loss. Profit.
Aug., 1906 .. ..£1449 Aug., 1908 .. ..£136
Feb., 1907 .. .. 713 Loss.
Aug., 1907 .. .. 595 Feb., 1909 .. .. 848
Feb., 1908 .. .. 639
The total balance to debit of profit and loss is now £5423.
Of course, things are going to improve ; there never was
a time when they weren’t. Almost of course, too, the
co. has got a new manager. As usual, the maintenance
of the dredge is a very heavy item—£ss9 for the half-
year. The only satisfaction the man who designed it can
have is that if built on any other plan it is almost certain
that it wouldn’t have been able to earn profits from this
patchy, snag-cursed area.
* * * *
So far as the Hercules, the Tasmanian silver-
lead show, is concerned, the rocket went up like that —
and comes down like this :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., 1907 .. £347 Nil £44S £17,830
July, 1907 .. 8520 £5406 245 20,699
Jan., 1908 .. 4790 5406 1023 19,060
Loss.
July, 1908 .. 989 Nil 18,071
Profit.
Jan., 1909 .. 2078 Nil 1176 18,974
Out of the past half-year’s profits, helped along by the
reserves, a sixpenny div. on the 150,000 shares was paid
after the accounts closed. The ore is sold to the
Germans who run the Zeehan smelters (when it suits
them); 9580 tons went away during the half-year,
averaging 13'090z. silver, ll'Ol per cent, lead, and
about 4<hvt. gold. The 30,000-ton contract with the
smelting co. has been completed ; and the co. is now
taking the ore under an arrangement by which 100,000
tons may possibly be supplied. The mine contains some
rich zinc-blende ; but that is in a rickety part of the
mine, and can only be reached at present with great diffi-
culty. After paying the div. on March 1, the co. ought
to have about £6OOO of liquid assets (mostly cash) in
excess of liabilities. As to reserves, Manager Moxon
admits the extreme difficulty of estimating quantities in
connection with such irregular bodies, but reckons he has
150,000 tons in sight above No. 4 level, but not all opened
up ; fully 40,000 tons of average value can be reached
from the present workings. The rickety state of portion
of the mine accounts for much of the big difference
between the two sets of figures.
* * * *
For twenty years New Brothers Home No. 1
(Tas.) has been plasmon, bovril, and condensed milk to
legal manager and directors. Now Lindesay Clark is
sweeping out the last of the drift, leaving nothing but a
cold granite bottom for the Board to sit on while it does a
Weary Willie dream of forgotten picnic revels and penny'
Bridge. All that is left in the claim is 23,000 cubic yards of
rich ground. This is about six months’ work, if it is not
eked out by a judicious blending with 100,000 cubic yards
of poor dirt. The latter may pay the JBriseis to sluice
under its 52 per cent, tribute, the Brothers No. 1 plan
being to let the other chap do the work. W hich raises the
point why five able-bodied directors want fees to rule so
simple a financial problem as checking the Briseis figures,
banking the cheque received, and agreeing to the divi-
dend. The only explanation is that all’s tin that comes
into their sluice box.
* * * *
Taylor, the John Bull co.’s consulting engineer,
says straight he won't swop horses at the Tasmania
mine, Beaconsfield. Launceston shareholders acted the
little-Peddlington over Heathcote, the general manager—
wanted to know his screw', and his etceteras, etc., etc.
Of course, the co. has not paid any divs. since Bull took
the mine, but the manager has not had a real chance.
Everyone knows that if “ Billie ” Jones and Freche-
ville had not thought the mine better than it was or is,
Launceston would have been left nursing a very
large baby on very poor pap. Launceston wisely’
boarded the infant out with the foreign Fatman,
but, seeing all the frillies, now thinks with maternal
pride that it can cure baby’s complaint better
than the specialist. Bull would not be long in
letting the management go to Tasmania, only he thinks
another sink may bring the co. on to better stone. If so,
and divs. come, Launceston won’t be heard droning out a
Banshee wail. Two things alone have kept the co. off
the div. list—(l) Lack of gold ; (2) heavy expenses due to
the volume of water that filters into the mine from the
sponge-like zone in which it lives. The first cause may
be removed ; the second won’t. As there isn’t the least
chance that Launceston would be able to put gold into
the stone or dam the water, there is no call to hand over
to it either Board or managers.
* * * *
Maldon (Vic.) hasn’t any time to give to the
Dreadnought hysteria. It has its own bit of excitement
concerning a gold find out Sandy Creek way. In the
dim, dead past the Brassey mines lived out at Sandy
Creek ; and a poor lot they were. Shoots were short and
calls were long. So for years the district has been back
again in the possession'of hatters and hard-up miners.
When, the other day, a party lit on gold Maldon scurried
out to warm up things. But, as it only pegged out two
or three leases, it is fairly safe to assume that, in local
opinion, Sandy Creek still needs a bit of fertilising. The
betting is about even on the point whether Maldon will
simmer down first, or whether Stock Exchange McWhae’s
Dreadnought boom will perish ahead of it. Anyway,
they appear to be just about equally in need of bottom.
* * * *
Alexandra Reefs, Alexandra (Vic.), is a has-
been that refuses to be converted into a will-be. Every-
thing hangs fire, what with breaks, crosscourses and
other mining disturbances. Every now and again the co.
gets enough gold to stimulate a hatter. The rush to
whack it out is short-lived, but the enthusiasm aroused
leads to call-paying, and, in direst emergency, to an
appeal for a State grant. The last flutter was over a
lOdwt. return from a winze below 413 ft. ; so another sink
is being carried out to try if quartz will be better gilded
below than it has been above.
* * * *
Rose of Denmark, which once cut a big dash up
Gaffney’s Creek way (Vic.), has to thank one or two
devoted admirers for a reappearance in mining sassiety,
such as that is. Railway contractors and merchants paid
her tribute in the old days. But they wearied or died, so
that Rose was no name to set your tie by. Now it is a
case of other men other manners. Rose is no past num-
ber, for she can trill out dividends and produce a bit
from the stocking to show that its heel hasn’t a hole in
it as big as a horse-collar. All the Gaffney Creek
mining thrills are over quartz-veins in a big
dyke. First Al, then New Dempsey, now the
Rose are the three last sensations, with about
two years’ quietness between each outbreak. What the
Rose wants to do is not to live too close up to income ; not
to go on giving largesse to her followers until the store of
golden quartz is exhausted ; not to pay heed to detrac-
tors who say that gold pinches with depth at Gaffney’s,
but to prove that that assumption is a lie by going in for
progressive mining.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, has
been stoping four levels, and has kept 10 head going on
stone worth about £6 a ton. The two reefs that provide
the stone are certainly not parallel formations, because
the so-called hanging-wall Day Dawn reef diverges con-
sidi rably to the north. This reef seems to have the same
bearings as the Brilliant Deeps and the reef intersected
by the N. B. Freehold shaft. The fact that the Brilliant
Blocks at 1610 ft. also cut a leader conforming with the
Deeps is also worth noticing, for the Blocks are deeper
below the Brilliant reef than any other shaft being sunk for
the Day Dawn. Naturally St. George, which is east of the
Blocks, has a keen eye on developments ahead of its own
prospecting. There doesn’t seem to be much chance of
striking a big east and west formation unless at a much
greater depth ; but there seems better hope, now that
the Deeps have improved, that the Blocks will also
benefit. The improved prospects of Extended at 2800 ft.,
Deeps at 2400 ft., and the sinking of the Blocks shaft below
1600 ft., are all favorable to a gradual revival at Charters
Towers. The Blocks, having sunk deeper below the
Brilliant reef than the others, is being keenly watched by
the group of mines to the east.
* * * *
On Tuesday afternoon the Court in Brisbane
gave judgment in the Hirsch v. O.lv. case ; and the co.
has to face a verdict for £19,500. Possibly there will be
an appeal; at any rate, on the strength of that possibility,
shares, which had tumbled headlong last week, picked up
a penny or two on Monday.
Adelaide paid just on £lOOO in five days for
Tiding on its throe miles of electric tram to Norwood and
Kensington ; then the traffic settled down to the normal.
Two more routes, to North Adelaide and Walkerville,
across the river, are to be opened before Easter with
luck.
* * * *
E.R.: It has got a stiff hill to climb yet; there
are others that promise a much better result Five
Per Cent.: Not worth the risk.
* * * *
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* » » »
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of ’97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
• * * *
R. and «T. Dick, Glasgow, patented and made
“ Balata ” Belting, universally famed by its excellence
for heavy mine work. Their quality is still unapproached.
For protection against inferior imitations note the
maker’s name stamped on every few feet. Sole importers,
James Hardie and Co., Sydney and Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, in its
October ’OB number, comments upon the last report of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited as
follows“ To have completed £1,278,034 of new business
is a really splendid achievement for any office, but for a
comparatively young one (having been established in
1873) the figures are of intense interest, and indicate the
force of the power which the Colonial Mutual has attained
in the insurance world.”*
* * * •
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydnej',
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole dep6t for Best Yorkshire
“Farnley ’’ Iron.*
* • « *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, 3’ou will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
♦ * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Trnax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
• • • *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* • •* *
Anyone thinking of increasing their electrical
equipment, or installing a new plant, should consult
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and
128 William Street, Melbourne. As agents for Mather
& Platt, of Manchester, they have put in their electrical
machinery ih all parts of Australia, and they have now
placed themselves in an excellent position to supply this
maker’s manufactures at prices which compare favor-
ably with those of other makers. Mather & Platt’s
Generators and Motors have an enviable reputation for
high efficiency, long wearing capacity and reliability.*


£3
t
$
&
o
Peter F.
HEERINQ
PURVEYOR TO
THE KING,
m
FOR
DIRECTOIIE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “SILVASHEEN” NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR IT.-«i
H
I’m the Robttr Tea Girl,
and I’m going to tell you one
way that experts test tea —
After the tea has been made
and poured off, they examine
the infused leaves that remain
in the teapot.
PURE TEA.—The leaves
have a bright reddish-coppery
(like a new penny) color—and,
as a rule, the brighter they
look the finer the quality of
the tea.
COMMON or FAULTY
TEA. —The leaves are dull
brown, with an occasional
dark leaf, and sometimes, little
pieces of black stuff among
them.
ARTIFICIALLY
FLAVORED TEA —The leaves
are reddish-brown, with green
leaves among them —these
Green ones vary in number
according to the proportion
of flavoring that has been used,
and they vary in color from
dark olive to the very brightest
green —whether this artificial
stuff is good to drink —we
leave you to judge —all we can
say is. nothing would induce
us to mix it with Robur —
now you can judge your own
tea !
P.S —The No. 2 Grade Robur
is splendid tea for every-
day family use. All grades
of Robur are pure tea.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 29, 1909.
My Dear Arint, —
The news that Governor-General Dudley and
the Countess and household will make Sydney
their headquarters from about April 1, and will
remain for about six months, is sent hereward on
the word of Lord Richard Nevill. Their Exes,
will give a ball on April 15 and a garden party on
April 19, and the Doomsday Book is now at the
entrance gates of Government House awaiting
the writing of your name and address. Altogether
the gaiety of this city seems assured for the
ensuing half-dozen moons.
Ex-Excellencette Rawson finished her seven
years’ stay amongst us in tears. Bands, naval and
military escorts, and thousands of women,
children, and men (putting the three in the order
of number) accompanied the departing father and
daughter to the Quay. It was a day of most
enjoyable melancholy for the crowd. Manj' of
the long-haired sex wept at sight of Miss Rawson’s
grief, but the majority just said how sorry it was,
and looked critically at her black-braided tailor-
made of blue serge and her mole-hued hat,
flowered and winged. On board the Chrysanthe-
mum liner she and her father stood half-buried in
flowers, and said their last good-byes for the
manyth time to those who had struggled on
board.
No woman in Sydney looked more vigorous or
less like “passing out” than did Mrs. Molyneux
Parkes, who died suddenly last week of some
brain trouble. She was a great worker in the
women’s clubs and the Girls’ Realm Guild, and
the day before her death various women’s
columns in the dailies mentioned that she was one
of the two ladies selected to coach Lady Dudley
at the Girls’ Realm Guild Exhibition to be
opened by her Ex. next mopth, and the Women’s
Liberal League representative of this State at the
Commonwealth Conference to beheld at Brisbane
in August.
The Rundle bride of last week—she was also
the Miss Tooth of last week—achieved something
new in the decoration of her wedding gown. On
the back of her train, the tail part, was a sheaf of
flowers, white roses and lilies, and when she
brought her tail round and carried it on her arm,
she appeared to beholding a sheaf of flowers instead
of several yards of her own bridal raiment. Her
going-away hat was a calm, refreshing develop-
ment in mignonette-green satin and ostrich
feathers, and her take-to-flight frock was a grey
tweed of the tailor-made religion.
Mrs. Marks, relict of Mr. James Marks, who
died at Bowral last week, was one of three daugh-
ters of the late William Moffitt, an early book-
binder, who in the ’twenties established the
business now known as Penfold and Co., in
Pitt-street, Sydney. Mr. Moffitt started in East
King-street, but set up in Pitt-street in 1835. He
died exceedingly wealthy. He was one of the
early creditors of the new colony of Queensland,
about the time that Governor Bowen looked into
the Treasury at Brisbane and found only
The other daughters of Mr. Moffitt were Mrs.
John Marks, of Darling Point, who died last year,
and Mrs. Thorne, of Macleay-street, who still
survives.
The Earl and Countess of Darnley have been
celebrating their silver wedding. When the pair
met in Australia the Countess was Miss Florence
Morphy, of Beechworth, in Victoria, and the Earl
was Ivo Bligh, captain of a visiting English eleven.
Gentleman One Mr. Horace G. F. Walker
went into the as-long-as-ye-both-shall-live partner-
ship last Wednesday with Miss Ethel Drummond
Wilson, youngest daughter of Mr. Thomas
Wilson, an old goldfield pioneer in Vic-
toria, also a one-time shipowner at Liverpool,
(England). The. wedding occurred at Mount
Royal, Strathfield. Three bridesmaids—Miss
Ethel Walker and Misses Nina and Dorothy
Edmond—held up the fainting bride. The bride-
groom is the grandson of Dr. Walker, of
Parramatta, a medical celebrity of the early days
with a good record at the Universities of Glasgow,
Edinburgh and Baris. Incidentally the ancient
gentleman was a member of the Faculty of the
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons at the
city of St. Mungo, which is a very scarce
distinction.
A Melbourne correspondent sends me this,
apparently under the impression that we don’t
know the art equally well in Sydney :
The amazing adaptability of the female form divine is
manifested on Collins-ssreet Block these fine afternoons.
Apparently the Melbourne woman is more amenable to
the fashions than her sisters of the other cities. At any
rate, she takes shape much more quickly. The fashion-
able figure having gone into a rapid decline since the
introduction of the sheath dress, the Blockers have put
off their pleasing plumpness in the course of a few weeks,
and the favorite saunter is now pervaded by long, lean
ladies with a drifting attitude and a gait that has a sort
of skating roll. How is this sudden attenuation brought
about? The mere man who has tried to shake off a bit of
superfluous flesh is astounded at the sex’s success in
reduction. The substantial damsel with generous curves,
when called upon to oonie down to the featherweight
limit to get into a Parisian gown, fades in a day as if she
were a vegetable attacked by white ants, and when you
meet seven ladies on the Block you mistake them for the
seven lean years of Egypt. And that previous fulness of
contour wasn’t padding. I have watched the bran
market closely, and it hasn’t slumped in the least.
Girls who put up their fins according to the
gospel of Annette Kellerrnann are increasing in
number. A pinafored damsel of 13, named
Monica McShane, a pupil at Riviere College, is
the winner of the 50yds. Swimming Champion-
ship of Ladies’ Colleges and Schools. By right of
her win the youngster is photographed standing
beside a table on which rests the -diver cup that
marks her championship.
Cardinal Moran, on the jubilee of his priest-
hood, is having bouquets (with the odor of
sanctity about them) thrown at him by press
and people. He got his Merry Widow Hat years
and years ago—long before the shape became, the
raging fashion it is now. And he’ll probably
keep on wearing it for years after the Relict’s
style of headgear has become obsolete.
Bowwow ! Also, meow ! The Australian Ladies’
Kennel Club sends me its fifth annual report in
blue and gold. The doggy ladies mostly fondle
Fido in Melbourne, but the club raises a delighted
little bark to the effect that it has now reached
the inter-State position to which it has pointed
its nose for years past. A thousand dogs and
cats were shown under its eye last year,
not to mention a “ parade-of dogs held in the
grounds of the St. Kilda Town Hall, in Decem-
ber, in connection with the Australian Women’s
National League ” —the society which President
Dowager Clarke also presidents, and which has hor-
rible visions of triumphant Socialism in its worst
nightmares. The Very Nicest dogs were led rotind
by disrupted marriage ties as a guarantee of the
league’s good faith. Among other items of
breathless interest I read that “Airedales have
fallen away to a shadow,” and that “basset
hounds are a dead letter.” From the length
of the beasts I was prepared to read that
“Dachshunds are a living alphabet,” but it
seems. that they merely “don’t advance in
popular favor as they should.” Concerning cats,
the public preserves an icy coldness, but the
society puts that down to ignorance. “ In time it
will no doubt be educated as to the points which
make for beauty.” Meantime it just puts the
creature out at 10 o’clock ; and if the mouse sup-
ply increases in the cupboard, merely hires a
small boy to tie a brick around the animal midway
between the claws, and drop it into the Yarra or
the Harbor on a charge of neglect of duty. Very
seldom does it occur to the mouse-ridden house-
holder that he may be sweating his cat and ex-
pecting it to do more mouse work than is within
the compass of one animal, and the simple idea of
hiring a probationer or understudy cat to help the
leading animal in a heavy part is quite be)’ond the
ordinary person’s intelligence.
Our old friend, composer Clutsam, has started
a Musical Manuscript Agency in London, in
partnership with one Tillet, who also was once a
resident of the Commonwealth. Now, when you
write your Southern Cross Sonata or your’Possum
Fantasy or your Cantata re a Bear up a Tree you
will know where to send it.
Talking of melody-makers : Miss Nora Soprano
Long, writing to a friend hereabouts, mentions
that she has achieved greatness—of bulk. Or, to
be strictly correct, she has had vastness thrust
upon her. From something like a weight of eight
stone she has risen to over eleven. Which looks
as if she were qualifying for a front rank on the
operatic stage. Prime donne are mostly heavy-
weights, and given to tonnage.
Chrysosanthos Percy Grainger is burning the
midnight electrics over his latest form of sub-acute
mania—beadwork ! He is making collars and
cuffs for himself and maternal progenitor, using
the same kind of dingy beads that the old traders
sold to our colored sistern in Maoriland, Rara-
tonga, and the Sandwich Islands, and accurately
copying the patterns set by artistic cannibals of
bygone days. One collar is completed, and looks
like a piece of wide-patterned blue and white
ribbon. But when Chrysosanthos himself wears
the bead cuffs, then will one overhear at the con-
certs such admonitions as: “Never mind his
method or his hair, Gertrude ; take the glass and
look at his cuffs.”
This versatile son of this sunburnt land is out to
acquire the Maori language with the avidity of
the cat after the canary. He has a cwt. of Maori
books, especially dictionaries, and is ready, if
challenged, to recite you “Hinemoa” in the
brown cannibal language.
Percy Grainger is an artistic contradiction.
His minstrel’s mop of golden hair opposes his
matter-of-fact dress suit, and his wide-awake,
Energetic manner denies the dreams in his music.
A harper’s costume and an air of mingled languor
and grief would make him just about right. His
star item on Saturday night was Maurice Ravel’s
“Jenx d’ Eau”—which has in it the soft ripple
and splash of fountains. On the original MS.
the composer has scribbled, “The water god
laughs as the water tickles him,” and the idea is
so well expressed in the music that you can almost
see the joke for yourself when Percy pours out
the melody at the keyboard.
Mrs. Bland Holt is again in Sydney. She
seems to have discarded the turquoises and bar-
baric jewellery that used to lighten her brunette-
ness. But this March weather is so trying that
even the weight of one’s conscience is perceptible
and fatiguing ; and Mrs. Bland may be simply
flying light in the matter of baggage till the
climate lets up.
Miss Betty Ohls’s long convalescence is waxing
into good health. She is staying with her future
people-in-law, the McQuades, at Potts Point, and
will presently go with them to Medlow, where
they have taken a cottage. There is no talk of
Betty’s quick return to the stage, but a good deal
of fluff about her speed j marriage to her Fred.
Ada Orossley and her company alighted upon
Sydney in this brown and shaggy time of Lent,
and Sydney responded gratefully with roses and
rapture at the three concerts. When the digni-
fied civic magnate and his costly (frocked)
consort were not at the concerts they were
pursuing the Muecke pair in their two-thou-
sand-guinea motor-car, and trying to catch
up to the Smart-Setters who had got there
first with the invitation to the freak luncheon, or
the homicidal dinner, or the figure-disfiguring
afternoon-reception repast. When you’ve got a
long neck like Crossley's, and such a long slender
figure that looks its best in a white-lace Princess
frock, it is wise that you avoid the misdirected
hospitality of the wealthy person with the opulent
figure. To say nothing of the duty you owe to
the song-bird in your throat.
Thirty young voices were submitted to Crossley
for judgment by their possessors during her short
visit. She considered three worth consideration,
and one of the three “ very good.” Doubtless, by
a merciful interposition of Providence or S.
Caeeilia, every one of the 30 will think “I Am It,”
and take unto herself the “very good ” verdict.
Concerning the Crossley hats: The designer
head of a showroom here told me that it was a
treat “to see Ada Crossley wear a hat. , She poses
it level on her head.” When an expert notes such
a phase with admiration it is worth quoting.
How graciously Ada of the Voice submits to
the greedy encorist! The usual world-famous
artist, for all the case-hardened, electro-plated
smile that is born of world-tours, can be detected
sulking at the noisy extortion of the mob of
people who only applaud in order that the vat of
melody may be filled twice for the same guinea.
A celebrated violinist lately in these parts, when-
ever he was forced to give double measure, used
to look round at the raging erovvd as if he would
have liked to leap off the platform and beat them
over the head with his fiddle. Ada, on the con-
trary, looks as if she enjoyed giving extra numbers;
she smiles sweetly at the stick-pounding and
glove-splitting horde, and sings nobly to it about
God just as if it deserved that treatment —
which, being a music-robber, it doesn’t. On
Saturday night, simply gowned in a white
sequined robe, and with a star-like crescent of
diamonds overhead, she submitted as beautifully
as ever to the imposition, and gave twice from her
store of song to the hungry and oppressive. Dal-
croze’s beautiful twittering trifle, “The Heart of
My Dear,” revealed a different Ada from she of
the twilight solemnity of “Maying”; it was a
somewhat unusual excursion in the sunlit shallows
of song instead of the expected (from the name)
voyage to the immense deeps.
Miss Beatrice Day farewelled a number of her
friends at her furnished-house retreat, The Glen,
Milson’s Point, on Saturday. She was robed in
pink silk, and picture-hatted, and handed the
au revoir cup and cake to the guests with just the
right word and the correct quantity of cream and
sugar. The Knight and the Day and the rest of
the co. depart early in April.
An elated and excited shareholder in the Grand
Commonwealth Eisteddfod makes mention to me
that his Excellency Gov.-Gen. Dudley has inti-
mated to the committee that he will be accom-
panied by the Countess at the opening ceremony
on April 5. Box plan will gape at Paling’s on
Monday next.
I get this plaint from Adelaide :
The other Sunday four of us—three of the sex that
wears hairpins, and one of the lords of creation—neg-
lected the exhortation to praise the Lord cooped up
within four walls, and sallied forth per motor with the
intention of dining with friends at a township about 60
miles north of Adelaide. The sun temperature sug-
gested Sheol, the north-east wind suggested Tophet, and
the roads in parts were as smooth as the Valley of Dry
Bones. For the first 12 miles or so all went well, and our
tempers and countenances were placid. Then came a
spot where three roads diverged, and, of course, we took
the wrong one. Great were the bumps thereon —the
greatest of all shooting us out of our seats and propelling
us heavenwards. On reaching earth again, the face of
the chauffeur, more sorrowful than angry, told us that
something was “ up.” We surmised that perhaps the
carburetter had killed the sparking plug, and had then
drowned itself in the petrol tank. But no, the bump had
bent the front axle to such an extent that the “shover”
said it would be out of the question to go to our intended
destination. Our man companion—the owner of the ear
—said “Damn ! ” We said, “ What a horrid nuisance ! ”
(the same thing in other words), and we decided to make
for the nearest township and satisfy the pangs of hunger.
A yokel leaning on a fence said, in answer to our inquiry,
“Yak,-you’re orl right. Go ahead for six mile and yer
carn’t miss it.” May that yokel’s wheat crop be eaten up
by locusts !
We went ahead for six yards, and stuck fast in a rut,
with sand up to the axles. The car refused to budge.
We got out to lighten things a bit, but it was of no avail!
Then we espied some good old red gum sleepers piled up
at the side of the track. We “shook” four and laid
them in the ruts. The chauffeur entered the car, and “ let
her go.” She went—and we once more clambered in.
Cutting across country some, we met two more bucolics
who opined that “ t’other chap was pullin’ yer laigs.
There ain’t no township nearer than 12 mile, and the
road’s somethink orful ! ” We turned back on learning
this, and a few yards further on ran into a stump which
ornamented the middle of the way. A noise as of
5,000,000 stones jumping about in 5,000,000 kerosene-tins
greeted us. We discovered —or rather Jehu did—that
the huge meat-tin arrangement underneath the car, that
keeps the dust from the engine, had become battered to
such an extent that its own mother wouldn't have recog-
nised it. Another halt, this time for about an hour,
while the man donned blueys and was lost to sight be-
neath the car. We three feminines were asked to walk
on a bit while mere man said various naughty words. We
preferred to remain, having a secret hankering after
swear-words ; but we did not hear any new ones—only
the same old “ Damn ! ”
After much tribulation, things were comparatively
straight again, so in we climbed, making mild bets as to
what would be the next excitement. But nothing hap-
pened, except that the pace was 1J mile per hour. In
the long procession of time we reached a village contain-
ing a pub, where there was corned beef. We ate the
corned beef, which glowed red in the sunset—it was the
first edible we had seen, barring the yokel and the two
bucolics, since our early breakfast. Then the sun went
down and all the world was dark. We reached home next
day, or the ensuing week, or some old time.
Yours affectionatelv.
AKENEHI.
The Kingston Memorial Fund (including
the £lB6 16s. 7d. sent on from The Bulletin) has
been lodged on deposit at interest in the S. Aus-
tralian Savings Bank in the join.t names of Lieut.-
Governor Way and Treasurer Bonython, pending
a decision as to what form the memorial shall
take.
“Silas Snell”: A stirring bout of arms
happened in the vicinity of Mel bourne’s Victoria
Market the other morning. It arose out of a
collision between a hawker’s barrow and a spring
cart, occupied by three men and a crate of turkeys.
In response to an urgent invitation, trimmed with
odious reflections on the character of his mother,
the driver of the cart stepped down to fight the
barrow-man. The latter was handicapped by
short stature, defective reach, scarcity of wind,
and too much fat, but he fought with
dog-like fury and a callous disregard of
bruises. His enemy knocked him down five
times in two minutes, but the barrow-man
bounced up again and bucked in. The enemy’s
friends besought him to finish the hawker,
and get about his business, but the corpulent
one declined to accept any swipe as final.
So the other two descended from the trap,
and assisted the driver in his enterprise. It made
little difference. They knocked the barrowman
down more frequently, but couldn’t keep him
down. They kicked him when he was on the
ground, but when they were looking weary and
breathless the lone barrow-man was still whirling
among them, smiting desperately. So one of the
three struck him on the head with a fruit case.
He came at them again, a mere composite of dust
and rage, and a second man crashed a fruit case
on his head. While he was down the original
combatant kicked him, and then all three raced
for their cart, and drove off. When the hawker
arose he confronted a policeman. “Yah!” he
gasped, disgustedly. “ Who sent for the Johns ? ”
“I did,” a woman replied. “Well, you are a
dirty spoil-sport! ” snorted the hawker. When
last seen by the crowd, the barrow-man was
chasing down the road on the track of a spring
cart containing three men and a crate of turkeys.
He wanted to renew the conflict and fight the
whole outfit to a finish.
“ Huffin-Guffin ” : The approaching foot-
ball season reminds us that that hardy animal, the
barracker, will soon open his mouth like the gate
of perdition and spread his melodious voice over
the land. The football barracker is usually quite
normal all the week. His attacks come on every
Saturday afternoon, and last from three to five.
There are thousands of young fellows, quite re-
spectable every other day, who put off their
respectability on Saturday afternoons at the time
mentioned. They have special “barracking”
clothes, too. I once accepted an invitation
to go to a football match with a young fellow
who was a Methodist Sunday-school teacher, and
otherwise awfully proper. I expected to have a
dreary time. When we met I hardly knew him.
He had an old seedy suit thrown on anyhow. He
had not shaved. A well-worn, grease-marked
soft hat hung over his right ear. (A “boxer ” was
his regular head-piece.) His boots were anyhow,
and his hands were deep in his trousers pockets.
I looked the surprise I felt. “Going to barrack,”
he explained. “Can’t barrack if you’re dressed.
Doesn’t look well.” And he did barrack in lan-
guage that he simply couldn’t have used had his
Sunday-school clothes been there to hear him.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
AUSTRALIAN GEMS
Greers Tourmaline
& Diamond £l4'o
Pir\k * Greers
Tos/rmalirse &
Diamonds£24'o
; A
Pirxk & CreervTovrmali r\e s
Pearls A 52 "0
m
Designs and Estimates Given for Mounting Customers' Own Gems.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
BOOMERANG
fim
UiJm/lr
JWVARBEB
if GRAND PRIa
AT TIHLE
FUMCO -BBITI3H EXHIBITION:
Q
Ĥ
The
Tramway
Estate
Ħ
H
The
Tramway
Estate
Cronulla Residents returning from a Morning Dip.
FRONTING NEW TRAM LINE
There is little land left at Cronulla, within any sort of reasonable
distance from the beach. The Tramway Estate is the exception.
Fronting the new tram line, connecting Cronulla Beach and Suther-
land Station, the lots are but a shade over five minutes’ tram
journey from the surf. Each one is a full quarter-acre in area, and
the Estate is selling rapidly. On the completion of the line, the
allotments will certainly be worth much more money than our price.
FROM £25 BLOCK
Terms: £1 down, 10s. Month.
Free Plans and Illustrated Booklets from
ARTHUR RICKARD & GO. LTD.
848 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sellers of Good Land on Easy Terms.
in
■
■
m
mm
M
comm pmmmnK streeis^ydn
726-Z& GEO. ST., HAYMARKET.
OUR FREE MAIL ORDER CATALOGUE
is “yours for the Asking;. 9 *
ILLUSTRATION shows the “ Elegant Three-Color Cover " of our New Large
Catalogue, but the inside of 48 Pages of Choice Photographic Illustrations and
Detailed Descriptions are most interesting to Men who wish to deal with an
Old-Established House.
We ask you to send for it; it's free and is undoubtedly the Best Men's Wear
Book ever issued in Australia, and, more to the point, “ it shows Quality Articles
at Prices LOWER than elsewhere."
We know that "Honest Statements, Worthy Goods, and Low Prices" will
induce you to ** Trust us with your orders."
Twenty-nine years' catering exclusively to " Men's Needs " is our “ Claim
to your consideration."
We can guarantee you satisfaction no matter how far away.
If Economy, Quality and Correct Styles appeal to you, just fill in the slip below.
Please sent Post Free Catalogue “A” and Free Box of Patterns.
Name
Address ..
(This places me under no obligation to purchase.)
F. J. PALMER ®. SON
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
Cor. PARK 8 PITT STREETS, SYDNEY.


CM CUM
RECOGNISED the world over for their ex-
quisite quality, Carlson Currier Silks
may be. bought from the leading Drapery Houses
in the Commonwealth. Every color gradation
may he obtained from the palest to the deepest
tints. Send to us for a beautifully illustrated
book —FREE—mentioning the name of your
Draper when tvriting.
THE CARLSON CURRIER CO. (of San Francisco),
The Block, Collins Street. Melbourne. [l.
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly!
Royal
Corsets
THE RIGHT CORSET for YOUR
figure —it is THE CORSET that leads
the world's Corset fashions —THE
CORSET that corrects those peculiari-
ties of form which detract from a grace-
ful carriage—improves the figure —
ensures support with perfect comfort
and freedom. No gown can hang
stylishly unless the Corset fits comfort-
ably. ROYAL “ P.D.” CORSETS
enjoy the confidence and patronage of
women in all ranks of life. Ask to see
the new models —they reflect the latest
styles in fascinating ** DIRECTOIRE **
shapes. None genuine unless with
Trade Mark on every pair shown you.
“ All Drapers and Storekeepers
Stock Them ! n
IS?
ir
mm
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going band in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture cf the most desirable Motor Tyres and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,’’ and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 29, 1909.
Mr Dear Yarrik, —
Melba gave her final extra concert on Saturday
to a packed house. Sassiety in general, and
Toorak in particular, having enthusiastically up-
held the Diva for three concerts, made room for
others, and followed their G.-G. divinity to a
theatrical First Night. The consular Von Pin-
schofs, however, remained faithful. Mrs. Von hid
her generous expanse of chest behind a treble knot
of violets, and sat with hubby and his whiskers. The
rest of the imposing family sat in a row, guarded
by amateur-mummer De Beere, among the Phil-
harmonics of the organ loft. All the organ seats
were packed with these warblers, who beamed
behind blue bows and badges. Judge Johnson
was the head of a spic and span party in the
stalls. Dr. Myers brought his wife; she accen-
tuated her ash-fair hair with clinging pearl rags.
There were other oases of well-known medicoes in
the crush. Dr. Stawell was there, grimly grey,
with his new bride beaming in blue; and Dr.
Hamilton Russell sat in bachelor solitude. The
Dunbar Hoopers had with them Miss Adamson—
a young Brighton beauty, just returned from a
two years’ “ finishing,” but with none of the sweet-
ness finished out of her.
Melba was gloriously “fit,” and sang as even
she has not sung at her other triumphs. She has
given the Willow Song and Ave Maria from
Verdi’s Otello at every concert, answering to an
overwhelming public demand ; and the fourth
repetition showed no monotony. Every time the
lady sings The Willow, some lunatic sends up
the weeping vegetable to mark the event. Last
concert it was a whole willow plant—smell and
all —that threatened the orchestra with extinction.
On Saturday a life-size ship, with lights glowing
to port and starb’d, taxed the ingenuity of the
practised usher. It may have been a Dread-
nought—or an unhappy hint to the singer to
“git.” The audience still puzzles. Melbastruck
a clanging note in her dressing. Her gown was a
violent scarlet, and she planted red, red roses in
her hair. Shoulder-high white gloves helped the
emphasis. But it was her singing that made a
memorable concert.
While Melba was being escorted to tier carriage
down the Town Hall steps the other night, a lady
fainted artistically at her feet. Lemmone, with
the singer on his arm, stopped, and Melba sug-
gested that he should call the faintee’s car—she
could swim through on her own. The flautist
went to the rescue, and the husband of the sufferer
thanked him good and hard, and asked him to
call Mr. Jones’ carriage. The lady opened ’ one
eye, and in a low but distinct voice hissed : “ Mr.
Jumbo Jones! You fool , Edward!” Then she
lapsed again into unconsciousness.
Fair Una Bourne is to go with the Melba
luggage to Maoriland, and is busy packing her
best dresses and piano pieces for the flight.
Melba goes round to Hobart first for her Tas-
manian concerts—much to the disgust of Launces-
ton, which is so much nearer to Melbourne. The
company travels by a big liner to Hobart, and
trains thence to the north of the island. Melba
wrote from London to her Australian manager :
“ Fix my Tasmanian tour for the apple season.”
It sounds greedy, but just shows the local touch
of the native ; for the apple season attracts the
big boats, and saves the horror of a tossing in
southern currents in a small egg-shell.
Professor David enlarges upon the glory of
Antartic regions as a place for the recuperation of
health. Soon the Fashion of this continent may
make week-end trips to the icebergs—which, it
seems, are mostly snowbergs, after all. Then will
follow the inevitable cottage. The Fat of the
earth who have their “little place” in the moun-
tains, or by the sea, will speak loftily of “my
iceberg humpy,” or Mr. Ain-I-in-it will have a
small place where he rears penguins. Some time
ago one of our coastal shipping companies pro-
posed a summer excursion to Antarctic regions, so
that is something for a start.
Where now will the ghosts of the drowned fly
to ? The uncharted seas have been charted, and
the wastes of pirate fields have been invaded till
the moaning spirits of drowned men have been
driven to the desolation of icy earth-ends. If the
south wind blows in Tasmania or the fringe of
Maoriland, you can hear the ghostly wails and
feel the weirdness of the ghost land. Where will
they go—the poor wraiths—with the invasion of
laughing, living, earth-happv people, lapped round
with furry luxury and modern compressed com-
forts ?
Prof. David, always keen where coal fields are
concerned—he was for many years on the N.S.W.
Geological Survey—has discovered the mineral in
the Antarctic regions. Coal means buried and com-
pressed vegetation. What forests flourished in
those dead dreary distances, and what people
lived and loved and fought round the grim South
Pole before it began its deadly freeze ?
The Shackleton expedition discovered some Rip
Van Winkles in its wanderings. Murray, the
biologist, found microscopic animals in the fresh-
water lakes, frozen solid for many years, and the
infinitesimal creatures resurrected and continued
their habits of life as soon as they were thawed out.
Tittell the Returned has appeared as the Girl
from the Golden West. According to the interpre-
tation on Saturday night, the West must be a much
more aggressive metal than gold, clanging iron,
resounding brass, or clattering tin. The afflicted,
affected Girl is swamped in unholy noise. Not
noise for one or two scenes, but shriek and shout
and shoot from beginning to end. The pirates in
Peter Pan, who have evolved into cowboys, re-
member their horrific yells, and turn them on full
blast. Tittell has not much show of dressing. A
red frock with red bows in red hair is the chief
course, with a side-dish of a red flannel dressing-
gown, followed in the meant-to-be-ihou rnful
times by subdued brown. She gets one in on the
feminine audience, however, with a knee-length
fur cape of grey squirrel—an enviable garment
that she wears as a school-marm in a blizzard.
Florrie Gleeson has an insignificant say •in her
favorite squaw part.
Tittell got a great house of gushing girl : the
gallery was packed with her sentimental adorers,
while Society in a bunch tried the holding capacity
of the circle and stalls. Dudley and his Countess
and an aide occupied a box, and some more
Government House party with blue-lapelled at-
tendants flowed over into the unsanctified, un-
fenced dress circle. The Countess turned a lace-
frooked shoulder to the house, which got a glimpse
of the nape of her neck gleaming with diamonds.
The G.-G.’s had a hearty welcome-back from
Marble Hill; but Sweet Nell Stewart, coming in
five minutes later, gathered up everything in the
way of applause that the house could hold. The
gallery hung dangerously over the ledge and
positively howled a welcome. Nellie, in a rose-
leaf dress, with a bunch of rosy ribbons in her
hair, looked the youngest of her youthful, good-
looking party. All the new beauty-men backed
her up in the box, with Mrs. Marjorie-Chard-
Burton in white-and-gold, and Miss Yayne a
corner picture in grey.
There was a small crush at the Grand Hotel
last week to greet Sweet Nell and meet the new
actor men she has imported. One gets so used to
finding Our Nellie quite young-looking that it
will be a decided shock if she ever has the
temerity to show the footprints of the fleeting
years on her countenance. The lady says it has
become a usual thing in her welcomes home to
have old doddering grandfathers quavering out:
“ Why, I saw you act when I was a boy.” And her
handsome father, the original “Dick” Stewart,
used to say: “People are trying to make me
believe that my daughter Nell was horn some
years before I met her mother.” At the tea she
wore adorable rags of misty sea blue, with a big
black hat that had jet thrown pell-mell on its
brim, like lava from a volcano. Jet is having a
long lost day, and grandmothers beam and bask
in treasures from old lavender store-boxes. It is
even fashionably possible to wear “bugles” in
your bonnet. Mrs. “ Dick ” Stewart, an imposing
presence in grey, brought a small daughter who is
“ Auntie Nell ” in miniature-much more like her
than is Nellie’s own daughter, a tali, serious girl
with a clever face, and an intense studiousness in
Art.
Burton, the leading man of the new co., is afine,
big, breezy Englishman, with a kink in his fair
hair and a manner that is likely to do damage to
local girldom’s heart. He may make a cinch of
Julius Knight’s pedestal, for he is wont to shine
in Superbus, Brigadier Gerard, and such beauteous
parts, in which the leading man absorbs all the
limelight. Burton is making a honeymoon of the
trip. Mrs. Burton was Marjorie Chard ; she has
been playing lead with her boy in “ The Flag Lieu-
tenant,” that latest rage in aroused and alarmed
Britain. Marjorie Chard, who is to play in
“Kitty Bellairs,” is a handsome woman with
black hair and a marvellous home-grown com-
plexion. Her name should have a local recom-
mendation, seeing that her mother, Kate Chard,
appeared in Australia in “Boccaccio” a long
time back. Miss Vayne, another principal of
the co., looks temperamentally fit for more than
a solid weep—which moist part is her continuous
cue all through “ Kitty.” Nellie Stewart never
goes wrong in stage effects, and her new men are
all big and “lookable.” Claude King, another of
'them, has the dark and serious aspect necessary
to the villain. He will play Svengali in “Trilby.”
Nellie says she is already getting her bare feet
ready for that ordeal. Fred Moyes, a fresh-
colored man, and big like the rest of them, plays
the heavy parts ; and Mr. Tapping, an old-timer
in Australia, is the last name on the list of
principals.
Has anybody noticed that, nowadays, his
deputy-Ex. Madden, when he puts his specs on,
has a decidedly Pickwickian appearance. He is
the Pickwick of the old pictures, but with the
addition of a moustache. The figure, very round,
and very baldhead, the fringe of back hair
brushed into special notice, the cast of counten-
ance, and now the spectacles on nose make a
combination of Pickwick effects against which
the waxed “mo.” availeth nothing. Lieutenant-
Gov. Madden, with the faithful Vallange in
attendance, turned up at the Masonic Hall last
Thursday night for the purpose of handing
medals to the prize-pupils of Clarence Weber’s
Health and Strength College. They should have
dressed the parts properly, and come as Sam
Weller and his benevolent employer. Also,
John should have mounted a chair and put one
hand under his coat-tails as he addressed
the meeting. Instead of which he merely
stood on the platform, flanked by two perspiring
weight-lifters in dressing-gowns, and presented
the prizes with a few jocular remarks. It was
late when the awards for muscle were made. The
rest of the time from 8 o’clock had been devoted
to music and dumb-bells, and discourses on ways
and means of improving one’s figure. Two of the
weight-lifters were healthy young spinsters,
clothed in mild confusion and short white pinafore
dresses down to the knees. For the rest, they
wore brown stockings and gladiator boots. The
two lady pupils, in fact, would not have looked
out of place in ancient Rome going for a stroll
with Brutus and Cassius. Their performance
was nothing startling, but they “pushed
up” some respectable weights with maiden
gracefulness, and looked very lithe and
fit. The Masonic Hall was full of medicoes,
who watched Weber the Magnificent keenly. A
doctor-man took the platform and read some
notes on breathing, while Weber, on a pedestal,
illustrated his sayings. Corsets were, metaphori-
cally, torn to shreds. Weber tied a towel tightly
round his stripped body, and then breathed, as a
mild suggestion of the restriction of stays. It
was but a suggestion that was miles away from
the genuine horrors of whalebone and rubber and
steel. Weber can breathe in a dozen different
ways as easy as winking, with all the muscles
playing their sinuous game for every envious
being to see. As the doctor-man explained,
women scarcely ever get a good old breath. She
rarely breathes beyond the waist-line. Melba
can breathe, so the doctor said ; and Weber gave
an imitation of Melba breathing. No wonder the
songstress can play battledore and shuttlecock
with a held note if she has conquered that method
of taking in and blowing out the public atmo-
sphere.
The departure of the Orontes on Tuesday
attracted a record crowd. It took one fareweller
twenty minutes and half a ton of enthusiastic per-
sistence to even climb the gang plank. The Aus-
tralian XII. waved bats and adieux to cricketing
enthusiasts. The Police Band blared its blaredest
as a farewell to Dr. Gr. A. Syme ; and a whole con-
tingent of Importants from Bendigo, headed by
Advertiser Mackav and his wife, had berths in
the packed ship. The strong display of the popu-
larity of Dr. Syme was almost surprising. A quiet,
little, absent-minded man, of most unassuming
manner, he is recognised by his brother medicoes
as first in this city to jealously guard the interests
of the profession. Nevertheless, it’s an ill-wind
that blows nobody any good, so a younger gene-
ration gets a look in when the Gr. A. Symes go off
on a European jaunt. Dr. Jack Gordon, a popu-
lar Carlton medico, steps in to carve limbs left
over by holidaying Syme.
Surgeon G. A. Syme goes for a trip to the place
where Dreadnoughts are to be sent when we can
borrow the money. On Friday the whole of the
bobby or constabulary force collected in one great
blue mass to wish its medical adviser God-speed.
Every cop or John Dunn had subscribed toward a
farewell present, both to the doctor, who is im-
mensely popular, and to Mrs. Syme. Ex-Gaud
Mayor, Dean Phelan, and many medicoes backed
up chief peeler or John Hop O’Callaghan in
making the presentation, and the departing one
had good-bye said to him in a thousand-odd voices
and handshakes.
Two of the show people of St. Kilda-road are
moving out of the picture—Dr. Le Vitus and his
big blonde wife. Phey return to America, and
with them go the spanking dogcart and the
sterling black and white pair that pulled it. The
Road will also feel the absence of the chestnut
riding horses that matched the lady’s hair. The
family’s Great Dane, a speckled monster of a
dog; has been stolen, and the £lOO insurance is
not (so the lady weepfully declares) any adequate
compensation for the bereavement. These two
people and the mountain of a dog made an outfit
as gorgeous as a Lone Hand advertisement and
as striking as a brick from a fifth-storey hod.
Leila Armytage departs to join her vagrant
family in European wanderings. She goes by
theiMalwa, and takes her hair-frame with her.
That hair-frame! Probably the cabin has been
enlarged to successfully surround the famous
cart-wheel. Other Toorakian maidens have never
managed to break Miss Armytage’s record in
thatch width. It has been a thing of mysterious
and wonderful architecture, impossible to copy.
The Toohey Two —maidens who whirl rapidly
in sea suburban society—are off to Sydney to
catch up with the Yawata Maru, which ship
takes them to .lapan. Nothing but an all-round-
the-world trip will suffice once they get going
with their Saratogas. They intend cutting
across to Europe by the trans-Siberian railway,
then to London and America, taking in Alaska
on their wingy way.
Talking of foreign travel, Justice Hood’s duck-
ling, who has been whirling round Java, Singa-
pore, Rangoon and other highly-colored parts
of the earth for the last half-year, is home again,
surrounded by a buzz of enthusiasm that is
rousing all her pals to pick up their joint and
aggregate bluey or Matilda, and hump it right
away.
Little Rita Hope was the pianist at University
Peterson’s last Wednesday afternoon impromptu
concert. Each week the Prof, has an artist, with
a sample of the artist’s Art, on show, so that his
pupils may see and note the varied styles and
antics of other schools abroad. The hopeful
Rita held the keys for an hour or so, and ex-
pounded the classics in a way little expected of
such a dumpling of a damsel, who has only just
tied up her pigtail.
Miss Ethel McKinley, daughter of Punch
McKinley, is to be married at St. John’s ivy-
covered church at Malvern, on Wednesday
April 21. The lucky man is Rev. George Am-
brose Kitchen, of Waitangi, Malvern.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The Wedding March has been loafing of late, but last
week it did its very best for the knotting of songstress
Ethel Hantke and Mr. Cowan. The sacrifice occurred at
St. Michael’s, Mitcham, and was very decorative. The
bride wore white satin gracieuse and a dream of a Car-
rickmacross veil. Another Hantke maid, and a Cowan
daihsel, and a page, and a brac j of little train-bearers
were in the picture as accessories before the fact. After-
wards there was a reception, and a resida-clad bride de-
parted to sample honey in various parts of the Common-
wealth.
The Lewis Cohens, who have dwelt in Melbourne for a
year, came back the other Sunday, and will once more
take up the weight of citizenship in this village. It is
already whispered that Lewis is willing to be Mayor once
again at the end of the present chain-wearer’s term of
office, and as his gorgeous frivols of some years agone are
still green in the memory of a city that hasn’t many joys,
all the girls are speaking to pa about it. The Cohens are,
for the present, domiciled at the South Australian. A
sad feature of their home-coming was the death, on the
day of their arrival, of their adopted son, Howard Marks.
Mrs. Price and a professional nurse have taken our
Premier up to Mount Lofty, and if that doesn’t mend his
shattered health, we shall never have the same faith in
the atmospheric excellence of our gum-treed hills again.
The populace has been firmly warned against disturbing
him, and he has made a bargain with himself not to dis-
turb himself either. As a result of that bargain, he sent
down to Treasurer Peake the other day, and induced him
to become Acting-Premier.
The sudden death of Mr. Jack Creswell last week was a
blow to everyone on this side, and Adelaide is busy
wondering how it is going to get along without him. He
was one of the most energetic people on earth, and sec-
retary or hon. secretary of about 40 things. He was
chief or emperor of the S.A. Cricket Association from
1883 until the other day, and during that period the
Association flourished like the Maoriland public. debt.
He was one of the founders of the S.A. Football
Association, and secretary of sundry of its clubs. He
gave bowls a friend!}' shove along, and was the prop and
stay of the Agricultural Society. Mr. Creswell was only
fifty when he left off. He was born in South Aus., and
was an old Saint Peter’s boy, one of the college’s
governors, and chairman of its large and flourishing Old
Scholars’ Association. He leaves a wife and five children.
His daughter Hazel was to have been married just after
Easter.
Olive Godwin and co. are back here to play “The
Belle of New York ” for a brief five days, and an excited
city, struggling in front of the box-plan the first day it
was opened, smashed a plate-glass window in its haste.
The melodious Olive has some relatives in this village,
and a crowd of friends who pursue her with regularity
and dispatch, not to mention afternoon tea and buns.
A presentation and a gay little frivol were thrust at
Civile. Hine last week. Both were manipulated by the
musicianly Frederick Bevans and the maiden’s musical
chums. The present was a writing-case with all
accoutrements.
Warbler Oscar Taueber threw open the Town Hall the
other evening to let the world hear Hilda Reimann play
her fiddle. This little maiden, a daughter of Mr.
Reimann, of the Conservatoire, has just captured a three
years fiddle scholarship at that institution, and the
present burst of melody was -apparently by way of letting
the world see that she deserved it. A big orchestra
backed the little girl; and, while other lights were turned
low, a huge electric-lighted “ H.R.” reclined over the
organ. Also there was the usual Influx of vegetation, in-
cluding a gorgeous harp of scarlet cactus dahlias. The
audience included the Barlows, Wanborough Fishers,
Miss Amand Wright, pretty Meta Biiring, and 2561 more.
Elizabeth Newbold, with a Melbourne syndicate’s
shekels supporting her soprano voice, has been knocking
at Marchesi’s front door. And Marches] has beckomd
the damsel in, sampled her bird-notes, accepted her as a
pupil, and pronounced: “You will be a great artist if
you do as I tell you. You are a musician, and a dear
little thing. Let me kiss you.” According to Elizabeth,
Marchesi is a lovely old dame, who adores our Melba,
likes to talk about her, and was much interested to hear
of the kindness showed by the Queen of Song to the
youngster. Also her studio is heavenly. Elizabeth has
six lessons in it every week.
The Register’s brand-new building will have an opening
ceremony on April 3, and the proprietors have issued in-
vitations to watch how the new Governor does such
things. The new Gov. has also signified his intention of
fixedly regarding the S.A.J.C. races the same afternoon,
and of being assisted in the process by her Ex. and their
two daughterlings ; so society will hasten from its fortress
in considerable agitation that Saturday to have a first
glimpse of them.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


FETCHING HATS.
Hats that are so low priced as to make them eminently fit to knock about in, yet so pretty as to make it a pity
to do so. These charming Winter Models are most stylish creations, fashioned artfully to tempt the tryer-on
with their becomingness. On many of the Hats Ottoman Silk is a feature* and which is so popular for Autumn.
SWEET BROS. LTD., mem™.
99
Write for our 80 Pages
of Autumn Fashions .
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
No. 109.
Hat, in Straw or Felt, trimmed
Soft, Merv. Ribbon, in Black,
Colors, 14s. lid., 16s. 9d.
Wings and
White, or
Ĥ
Ħ
H
■ • *
No. 107.
Hat, made of Ottoman Silk, underlined Cream,
Full Draped Crown, finished Braid, Pins, in
Black and all Colors, 19s. lid.
, /
wm
tm
No. 108.
Pretty Model, in Prune, Cinnamon, Emerald, Navy,
Peacock, Black, and Moss Grlac4 Silk, hound Velvet
Edges, Folded Velvet Crown, Large Wing and Silk
Buckle at side, 21s.
m
m
No. 117.
Satin Hat, lined Velvet, trimmed Large Wings
and Merv. Ribbon, in Black, White, Emerald,
Prune, Peacock Navy, and Cinnamon, 275. 6d.
and 30s.
No. 110.
Merry Widow, in Canton Straw, trimmed
Silk Swathe and Wing, in Burnt, Black,
and Colors, 12s. 6d.
ms
ES#®.-.*
*W*:
No. 139.
Becoming- Hat, in Ottoman Silk, Black
and all Leading Shades, trimmed Large
Rosette and Ottoman Silk, 225. 6d.
In Straw, lined and trimmed Glace Silk
16s. 9d.
' ' V
/ ’ , ■<■• V
*fyf
r
<■
m
I :
No. 115.
Smairt Hat, in W hite Felt or Glace Silk, trimmed
Black Ribbon, Velvet, and Wings, 17s. lid.
In Colored Straw, trimmed'Velvet and Winms to
match, 15s. 9d.
No. 114.
Pretty Hat, in Glace, lined Ottoman Silk, trimmed
Glace Silk and Velvet, finished at side Wirm and
Velvet Button, 21s. 9d.
■
No. 118.
Stylisli Hat, in Ottoman Silk, trimmed Folds
Oriental Satin and Jet Oabochons : (all
Colors), 18s. lid.
SWEET BROS. LTD “Where Biz Hums,” NEWTOWN.
We pay Carriage on £1
Orders and over to any
part of Australia.


That our Pills Laxo-Tonic are best
The States have all frankly confessed
Where all others fail,
Laxo-Tonic prevail,
And so they are most in request.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10£d. and Is. 6d.
PRIOR TO REMOVAL TO
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Walter Bradley & Go.
are now disposing of their
Magnificent Stock Furniture,
Well-Made Upholstered Goods,
Water Colors, Bronzes, China,
Statuary and Art Treasures.
BARGAIN PRICES TO CLEAR.
CAREFULLY PACKED FOR COUNTRY.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCA3TLE Sc SONS, BRISBANE.
9
tisS^ra 1 '
;> ///
ED
for every girl and woman
to be well and at her best is
to keep her blood rich and
pure. Usually Impure,
Weak blood is the cause of
the wretched feeling of lan-
guor and faintness, pains
across the shoulders, neur-
algia, and headaches that
make life miserable.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People actually
supply the good new blood
the fair sex need to make
them well and bright.
Thousands of mothers and
daughters have found a
prompt and effectual cure
for their ills in
Dr. Williams’
PINK PILLS.
Sold by all dealers : or direct from the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd. Sydney
at 2s, 9d. per box, six boxes 15s 3d. post free.
This Elastic Truss
Ħ
Elastic i
T russ—
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
•281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
ALSO AT MkLBOURNK.
POLITICAL
POINTS
AN EXPENSIVE PET.
The people do not desire starvation in the State snhere.
Melbourne ARGUS.
STATES RIGHTS PRESS : “For shame! Can’t you
’ear it ’ owling? If it wasn’t for me the pore
thing ’ud starve!”
THE PEOPLE : “ Good job if it did! It’s ruining
me! It's always hungry , and it’s always
being fed!”
“ Sr’s ” little piece :—-
Some legislators are questionably disinterested coves
when making laws. Thus Politician Baillieu, during a
discussion on the Victorian Factories Act, wanted to
exempt carpet-layers and sundry furnishing employees
from the provisions of the measure. Baillieu is a director
of one of the principal house-furnishing places in Mel-
bourne. Swinburne, during a discussion on a similar
measure, put up a memorable and Homeric scrap in his
desire to have enginedrivers made an exception to the
rule re payment of time and a half for Sunday work.
Swinburne is a director of a big gas co. which employs
enginemen, etc., of a Sunday. Two beautiful repre-
sentatives of the people are Baillieu and Swinburne !
A slab of acid common-sense from London
Referee :
We are going- to protect “ The Englishman’s Home ! ”
Then why not protect the Englishman’s means of liveli-
hood, the industries by which Englishmen are enabled to
make and keep a home ? It British industries are ruined
by foreign dumpers, “ The Englishman's Home ” will be
the workhouse.
Maoriland’s borrowing Premier, having
lost McNab, about the best man in his crowd, has
had to re-arrange his team. Ward himself takes
the Lands, and isn’t likely to make as
good a job of it as McNab did.
Miller is Minister of Railways, and
thus the one-time leader of labor in
the maritime strike (the biggest thing
of its kind ever known in M.L.) has
become head of the department that employs
more labor than any other business in the
rickety islands. He has started to clean things
up—and they badly needed it. The freak mem-
ber of the team is reckoned to be A. W.
Hogg, the new Minister of Labor and Customs.
He put up his first record when, some 18 years
ago, he defeated Squatter Beetham for Wairarapa,
a most Conservative stronghold ; and he has stuck'
to the seat ever since. His loyal support of
bigman Seddon and, since then, of Joe Ward
got him his present job; but sooner or
later he is bound to make trouble in it,
for the following reasons: (1) He is
a Freetrader, and Freetrade in M.L.
is merely a bad joke; (2) he is an
out-and-out borrower, and M.L. is
buried to its scalp in borrowed money
already—he would borrow from Cohen
to assist Mrs. and Mr. Cockatoo to erect
a henhouse; and (3) in the goodness of
his heart he will give concessions to every
body that asks him. In any ease, Joe
Ward is bound to strike a deal of trouble
within the next year or two, and A. W.
Hogg isn’t at all likely to reduce the size of it.
Customs Minister Tudor gave a queer
decision lately when ruling that certain over-
sized bags of maize imported from Java should be
admitted in spite of the regulation prohibiting
the admission of bags over the standard size
(2001 b.). Following the lead of the red-tape
branch of the Customs Department, Tudor con-
sidered that the regulation applied only to bags
imported for the purpose of being filled here,
ignoring the fact that the primary object of the
humane proviso is, not to fix the size or
shape of bags, but to insure that the lumper
won’t have to break his back in carrying unduly
heavy loads. Like the sugar bag—still being
imported—the huge Java maize bag is an infamy ;
and it makes no earthly difference to the man
who has to hump it whether it was originally
imported in bales or as a wrapping around mer-
chandise.
“ Hamer ” writes :
I have been rather bothered of late by people who
share my seat in the train talking “patriotic” sludge
about Dreadnoughts and the German Peril. It’s a weary
business arguing with these persons, and as, when I
happen to catch my train, I am usually in mourning for
my lost breakfast, I don’t feel fit to argue ; but I have
hit upon a method of dealing with the pests. Yesterday
morning a stout, red-faced citizen sat himself beside
me, and told me impressively that I—or Australia, I
forget which—should give Britain a Dreadnought. “Cer-
tainly,” I said. “A patriotic tax on land and incomes
should immediately be imposed to meet the expense ; and
a similar gift should be made regularly.” It seemed to
take all the wind out of him. He said something about
such a tax being an injustice, and alleged that the money
could be raised by a loan. But he seemed half-hearted ;
and by-and-bye he went out on the car platform and had
a fit, and fell off the train and was run over, or some-
thing. Anyhow I lost the run of him.
It is to be hoped that the Australian
Government is putting all the Dreadnought
suggestions carefully by in its scrap-book. It will
be wanting money presently, and
various papers and people are de-
claring that there are scores of ways
of raising it without hurting anybody
in the least. One “ representative
public servant” figures out that a
halfpenny in the £—a mere trifle-
on the capital value of rateable pro-
perty in Victoria would raise £500,000
annually ; levied on all Australia, it
would give at least £3,000,000 in two
years. Another thinks a Customs
duty would be the better method—a
primage duty of 2 per cent, on all
dutiable goods would give an even
larger sum. Bill Wilks reckons that
an extra tax on large incomes—above
£6OO presumably—would fill the bill;
while the absentee tax, it is pointed
out, would only touch people who
deserve to be touched. A few of
these suggestions, and the arguments
that back them up, ought to come in handy pre-
sently.
State Frights got another crack on the
head last week, when, as a result of attempting to
discriminate against Victorian goods, the Westra-
lian Government felt all the weight of the High
Court applied to its cheek. Under a colonial-wine
license a man had sold Victorian juice, and the
usual State-insect buzzed to the effect that the
license only applied to the Westralian article ; in
fact, there was no doubt that the local insect had
intended it to apply only to that. But the local
magistrate decided that the Constitution pro-
hibited any such injurious differentiation, and
dismissed the case against the wine-seller; and
the High Court last week decided that the
magistrate was quite right.
Last week, two sailing ships, laden with
wheat, blew slowly out through Pore Phillip
Heads and commenced the long voyage to England.
The white-winged pair comprised the last of this
year’s Australian grain fleet, and to the thought-
ful, spectacled person, on the Queenscliff heights,
their topsails, seen against the deep blue of the
ocean, made two large interrogation marks. Sup-
pose that Britain, instead of merely being nervous
about Germany, was actually at war with her;
what were the chances against the two cargoes
ever reaching the Channel? And, failing the
much-travelled Australian loaves, and the Cana-
dian and Yankee and Argentine and Indian and
Russian loaves, how long could London exist on
the North Sea fishes, and the game in the pre-
serves that were once wheatfields ? It is all very
good to shout about the fleet which Britain main-
tains to protect its dependencies, but if it hadn’t
one dependency, it would require the fleet all the
same. Bull’s bread is always on the waters,
and Bull has to go on the waters to keep an eye
on his bread.
During the Dreadnought upheaval, some
fantastic language was permitted to drift into the
seething Melbourne papers. One who spoke
seemingly with a mixture of feelings was Crouch,
M.H.R. for Corio (Vie.). For he declared he
would be “prepared to support a proposition to
give a Dreadnought to the British Empire every
week , but and here he came back to the cold,
bleak earth—“l think we should first find the
money to send the senior cadets into camp, and to
nrovide more than one rifle for every ten rifle-
men.” That is a unique remark when
you come to think of it. Part of it
- is almost comically practical, and
part of it is sensationally and
practically mad. In a manner
of speaking, it has straws
in its hair, while its
feet are perfectly sane.
THE GREAT AUS-
TRALIAN MAGNET.
A. A. Kirkpatrick, the white-bearded
patriarch of the S. Aus. Government, leaves it to
take up the broken threads of the Agent-General’s
job in London. Nobody suspected the old gentle-
man of leanings that way; but when he hinted that
he had them, the Government took into account
his long, single-handed work in the House of the
Fairly Fat, and appointed him. “ Kirk ” was in
the printing business before he took to politics 18
years ago—he came in on the first Labor wave.
F. S. Wallis, another compositor, takes the vacant
place in the Ministry. But Wallis, who has only
been in the House a couple of years, won’t have
the hard grind that “Kirk” had for many years,
because nowadays, with six Ministers instead of
four, Bice gives a hand in the Council.
The Dreadnought (but obscurity) agitation
has produced one good result, anyway—it has
bored a hole in the State Premiers’ pretty scheme
for cutting up the Commonwealth revenue, so
that the States should get a minimum of
£6,750,000. And the boring has been done by
that inveterate State Frights barracker, the S. M.
Hf.ralu, which, whooping for contributions,
points out that if the British navy were knocked
out “the cessation- of imports would imply the
stoppage of Customs revenue,” and “ the Com-
monwealth Government, which last year received
£11,135,000 from this source, would not be able to
pay its way.” So, under certain circumstances, it
is admitted that the Commonwealth may have
practically no revenue at all; yet the Herald’s
friends, the State Premiers, want to bind the
Commonwealth to pay under all circumstances a
minimum of £6,750,000 a year.
JOE’S BATTLESHIP.
Wellington, Monday.
Mr. Joseph Ward stated that the Government had de-
cided to forward immediately an offer to the Imperial
Government to defray the cost of a first-class battleship
of the latest type.— News Item.
The cost of a first-class battleship of the latest t3 r pe
is roughly computed at £2,000,000.— News Item.
Presumably Joe will present his battleship
by deputy.
Already has the latest craze added a new
word to the English language—“Dreadnought-
ism,’’ a state of violent panic about nothing. A
condition quite opposed to "Mafficking,” which is
a state of fervid rejoicing over nothing.
Messrs. Craig and Aitken, of 654 George Street,
Sydney, has made it possible for every young man to
change his youthful appearance by the use of their won-
derful moustache producer, Oapillarixe. Oapillarixe is
a harmless, easily-applied ointment that works on the
roots of the hair in a marvellous way—inducing and
promoting down and young hair to grow strongly and
quickly. The fact that it has never been known to fail,
never disappointed in the most stubborn cases, is proof of
the excellence of Oapillarixe. The price is 10/6 ii jar, and
Messrs. Craig and Aitken will forward it post free to any
part of the world. *
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Thus Joe Cook at Brisbane :
Britain a Dreadnought we are offering*
a g-ift to the greatest agency for good which has ever
appeared on the planet.
Thus is the Savior put into a back seat at last bv
a “local preacher.”
William Macgregor, M.D., formerly Gover-
nor of New Guinea, and latterly of Newfound-
land, comes back to Australia to take on the
vice-regal job in Queensland. Chelmsford, of
Queensland, moves to Sydney ; and Strickland,
of Tasmania, goes to Perth. Apparently the idea
of these last two moves is to prevent the long
hiatus between Governors which happens when
the retiring man goes to England and the new
man comes from England. The hiatus is bad for
the vice-regal industry. It gives people a chance
to notice that the lack of an imported Excellency
makes no difference.
If Australia must subsidise J. Bull’s navy,
in addition to humping the burden of a navy of
its own, there are some fine reasons why Prime
Minister Fisher should raise the money by
absentee taxation. As the -navy will be used to
protect the Australian absentees’ lives in England
in the first place, and their property in Australia
in the 17th place (or thereabouts), it seems a fair
thing that they and their property should carry
the load. Australia gets nothing out of them,
and as it is not likely to get much in a direct way
out of the navy either, the absentee almost carries
a notice on his back : “ I am the proper person to
be taxed for this particular job.”
Colonel Onslow, M.L.A., of Camden Park,
announced to a N.S.W. Deform coterie, the other
day, that people cannot be made good by Act of
Parliament. He, of course, was referring to
Arbitration Acts and such-like ; when the Tory
gets that heavy remark off his chest he is always
referring to some such Act. Onslow and his
political party have compiled the Police Offences
Act and other similar legislation with the sole
pretence of making people good. What else is his
object in shutting up pubs on Sundays and incit-
ing large policemen to chase Flossie round the
block till that sinful girl is ready to drop from
fatigue?
ON BUSINESS LINES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The financial affairs of a shop in which there were
several partners could not go on under such treatment.
—B. Smith, M.P., on the relations between Prime Minis-
ter Fisher and the State Premiers.
Imagine that the Commonwealth’s a Shop,
A place where one buys groceries and tea
(Argue in retail trade terms, and you’ll drop
To big Australian issues easily).
Around the building Chows and Japanese
Reside in multitudes ; their wooden shacks
Shudder and sway in ev’ry passing breeze,
Combustible as cotton-wool, or flax.
The managing director views with dread
The perilous proximity of Will
Ah Foo and Hakodate, and is led
To think out schemes to modify the ill.
He tells his co-directors they must spend
Big money in insurance, lest one day
Their neighbors bring disaster. “ Let’s defend
Our Shop,” quoth he, “ from ruin ’while we may.”
Thereat a loud, long wail of rage and woe
Ascends. His colleagues angrily protest.
Undaunted he proceeds : “ We must also
Economise —give borrowing a rest.
“ As things are now each of you’s pawned a part
Of our joint heritage (a fact I rue);
To liquidate those debts I mean to start,
And I shall do it out of revenue.
“ Good fire-proof safes, and concrete floors and walls,
Hj'drants and hose, these we must obtain
At once, and pay in cash ” ; here someone falls
Fainting to earth, and writhes thereon in pain.
“Already most of you are on the rocks
In a financial sense. You cannot wrest
The needful from the Jew ; your urgent knocks
Leave him within his shop, cold, unimpressed.
“I have decided to consolidate
Your borrowings, and settle them myself;
Till then you must go easy, and abate
Your hankering for other people’s pelf.
“ You, Brown, will have to sell your motor-car;
Jones, be resolved to burn your betting book ;
Robinson, you must drop your op’ra star ;
Smith, square your jaw and sack your Gallic cook.’>
He pauses ; cataleptic in their chairs
His hearers crouch ; their eyes in frenzy dance ;
They gibber wildly at the hound who dares
To preach to them the creed of straight finance.
Imagine that the Commonwealth's a Shop,
A place where one buys groceries and tea
(Argue in retail trade terms, and you’ll drop
To big Australian issues easily).
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


BECHSTEIN PIANOS
.
\ •
C. BECHSTEI N
-•■■ A
HANDSOME
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
FREE BY POST.
Are used by the
World’s
Greatest
Pianists
Exquisite Tone.
Perfect Touch.
Artistic Case Designs.
Sold for Cash or on
Easy Terms.
OLD PIANOS TAKEN IN EXCHANGE
*
ml
■
Sole
Agents
Brisbane and
Newcastle.
W. H. PALING <& CO. Ltd.
338 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Buckley 8 Nuim
Limited,
MELBOURNE
Part Interior View of our Warehouse.
BUCKUJY & NUNN UMII'ED supply the
public direct with the best Goods at lowest
possible prices. They have a reputation second
to none in Australia, and the Standard Quality of
their Goods is known throughout Australasia.
Autumn & Winter Catalogue, W 4,
NOW READY!
This publication is
now ready, containing
over iooo illustrations
of all that is newest in
the World of Fashion.
No home complete
without one. Send your
name and address, and
a copy will be posted
you Free of Charge.
H
CO iooi
Smart Tailor-cut Suit,
with Silk in Coat, Ready-
to-Wear, as plate, 5%
Guineas ; any extra al-
terations in fit, 4/6 more.
We have smart Tailor-
made Kton Suits in stock
from 4- Guineas. Inspec-
CO iooo tion invited.
Stnped Check or Plain Coats & Skirts to Order
hy Men Tailors, Coat Silk Lined, 6 Guineas. ’
Good Assortment in stock, Ready-to-Wear, from
73/6 upwards. Patterns of Materials free on
application
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED.
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
ONE of the great advantages of the Edison Phono-
graph. is that you have it just when and where
you like. In the winter time you can sit cosily
by your fireside and listen to the stars of the musical
firmament; in the summer, when the skies are blue and
you long to be out in the open, you can take the Edison
Phonograph with you and enjoy it where you will.
The Edison is undoubtedly a thing of beauty and
A Joy For Ever
—an instrument that will make life happy by appealing to your musical senses
Do not confuse the genuine Edison Phonograph with so-called “talking
machines. It reproduces with almost perfect purity the notes that are sung
into it, and enables the happy possessor to have a most varied entertainment.
You ought to write us for lists of machines and records, and the name of vour
nearest dealer. He will be glad to let you hear some of the recent records.
An Edison Business Phonograph never takes
a day off. It’s always there with the dictation
ready to give it up to any typewriter operator,
or several if there is a great deal of it. Ask us
about it.
We Desire Live Dealers in every town where
we are not well represented. If you have an
established store, and are desirous of adding- to
your income, write at once to the
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OP AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


BILIOUSNESS AND INDIGESTION.
OVEECOME BY Dk. MoESE’S INDIAN ROOT PILES.
Mrs. Y. E. Morrish, of 213 Riley Street, Surry
Hills, Sydney, having suffered for years from
biliousness, indigestion, and other stomach dis-
orders, writes that a short course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills have had a most wonderful
effect, and in her opinion they are the greatest
remedy on the market.
ua-r
Mrs. V. E. Morris
(From a photo.)
“Being a sufferer
from biliousness and
indigestion intermit-
tently for some
years it affords me
the greatest pleasure
to testify freely and
without the slightest
solicitation, to the
wonderful benefit I
have derived from a
short trial of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They are un
doubtedly the great-
est remedy I have
ever tried, and I am
more than pleased
with their curative
effects. They are
exceedingly prompt in action, and I have felt
their good effect almost immediately. I suffered
too, at times with neuralgia, but I find that a
couple of pills taken at night has left me entirely
free of ache in the morning; this alone should
ensure for the pills a wide and increasing sale.
I am indeed grateful that I gave the pills a trial,
and now always keep a bottle by me.”
HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
Ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
Ħ
TO
~M. THE KING.
H
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
LA6€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brkwert and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, STDNET.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
By all accounts, the sculling match between
Day and Ford at Woodburn(N.S.W.) was a fine exhibition
of workmanship. Both men are said to have handled
their sticks in faultless style. They rowed up-stream,
through water that was smooth as glass, and with a tide
on the dead slack. Ford was charmingly confident, while
Day was racked with anxiety. But when he got going
the nervousness disappeared. Ford went to the front
with a bound and stayed there till three-quarters of a
mile had been traversed. Day continually spurted to
overtake the man who streaked away most aggravatingly
in front ; but as he moved up Ford would bend to it and
streak away again. At three-quarters of a mile, how-
ever, Day came with a sustained rush that sent the
onlookers wild with excitement. His pace seemed terrific
and impossible to maintain ; but he kept it up, and,
amidst wild shouts, ran alongside Ford ; and they plunged
along side by side till the mile was covered, when Day
went to the front. At the mile and a half Day was two
lengths to the good, and the two miles were covered in
13min. 20sec., with Day still leading. Ford’s men
shouted lo him to spurt, and he responded splendidly;
but Day was too strong, and, in spite of desperate
efforts on the part of his rival, went on increasing his
lead remorselessly till he crossed the line eight lengths to
the good, having traversed the three miles in 19min.
49sec. The race was for £2OO aside and the gate, which
amounted to about £3O. The style and speed displayed
indicate there are big possibilities about George Day.
Maoriland is threatening to take Arnst as
seriously as it did Webb. Christchurch heaved up lately
and presented him with a bag containing something like
£l2O ; and some of the bloated farmers around the City
of the Plains were offering anything up to £5OO to send
him to England and Canada to wipe out Barry and
Durnan respectively.
♦ * * *
Motoring on sea and land made a casual appear-
ance in Melbourne last Saturday. The Motor Boat Club
had a slither from St. Kilda to Mordialloc, Katie 8., the
scratch boat, winning comfortably from Rex (2), and
Cleopatra (3). The running time for the first boat was
54min. 50sec. for the fourteen miles. On the more reli-
able earth the Motor Cycle Club held a 25-mile whiz out
at Campbellfield, with the result that one De Fraga
(justly or unjustly'christened the “ Daredevil ”) sneaked
home just lsec. in actual riding time in front of Stevens.
De Fraga’s time was 36min. 45sec. ; Stevens’, 36min. 46see.
Yachting in Hobson’s Bay (Melbourne) last
Saturday was marked by heavenly approval. The St.
Kilda Club had a herd of boats out after two or three
trophies, and Uira, the most consistent performer in the
club, grabbed two of them. At Brighton, the local club
held two races for first- and second-class boats, Joker
securing the first, and Vera the second; while the St.
Kilda Dinghy Club held an exciting contest, and a boat
called White Cap finally obtained the ornament.
* * * *
Mrs. Hyde, a Hunter River (N.S.W.) sculleress
who has been flourishing a £25-note for a splash at any
other lady' with means and a big muscle, is to be given an
opportunity to lose the money against Miss Gertie Lewis,
of Sydney. The match is fixed for the Parramatta River,
with £5 expenses allowed the visitor from the North.
♦ * * *
The S. A. cricket team to visit W.A. has Clax-
ton for captain and Gehrs for vice, but otherwise it is
chiefly remarkable for the men it does not contain ; for
instance, Clem and Roy Hill, O’Connor and Whitty,
Mayne, Dolling, and Pellew. On the other hand, it has
found a place for the veteran Reedman, who has come
into the field again for North Adelaide, and is batting
and bowling well. The team will play two matches in or
about Perth, and probably another on the goldfields.
* * * *
A comment on Victoria’s fraudulent “district
cricket ” system was furnished the other day in the semi-
final of the Junior Association. The battle was between
S. Melbourne footballers and North Ports. The battle-
field was away out at Brunswick ; yet no less than 2000
spectators journeyed out on each of two Saturdays, and
“ parted ” £B9 13s. 6d, to see the smiters. The encounter
was interesting, chiefly because each side totted up 139 at
its first go; but in the second innings Ports could only
notch 78, which the Norths equalled for the loss of five
wickets, thus winning into the final with ’Scray. But
where is the senior club match around Melbourne that
would draw £9O, or 90s. for that matter, at present? And
the whole difference is that these two clubs really do repre-
sent their districts, while the senior clubs represent
nothing in particular, and the district titles they bear are
mere names, and no more.
* * * «
The fact that First Grade Cricket in Sydney
entered on the final round on Saturday is hailed with a
sigh of relief. Everybody is about tired of cricket and
somewhat weary of summer. We hanker for a cold blast
and a roll on a muddied field to give a snap to life. All the
footballers are holding meetings and raking out jerseys,
boots, ear-protectors, and other warlike gear. The open-
ing of the final struggle was brightened up with only one
century, that of Rynn, of Sydney, who smacked up 103
before he fell to Reid, of Burwood. The next best score was
Pye’s 66 for Central Cumberland against Middle Harbor.
The weariness of the season and the game rested heavily on
the batsmen, giving the bowlers their chance. Of the
trundlers P. Newton, of Petersham, was the champion
slayer ; he killed six Glebe wickets for 32 runs.
* * * *
The penultimate round of Melbourne Pennant
cricket closed last Saturday, amidst a festival of batting,
there being no less than six centuries—or rather seven, as
one was a twin—recorded during the day. P’ran finished its
conversation with North Melbourne by compiling 410 for
four wickets, against North’s 167, winning by a bunch of
wickets and 243 runs on the first innings. T. Rush
bashed up an exhilarating22o. Against Fitzroy’s2o6, East
Melbourne summed up at 379 for five wickets (Carroll, 108).
South Melbourne, when asked to surpass Collingwood’s
136, declined, and lost by a faint margin of 10 runs.
Richmond, which has been showing painful mediocrity of
late, permitted Carlton to deluge it with 367 for seven
wickets, against its fragment of 158 runs. Collins
(141) and Robinson (105) helped Carlton in the
knock-out. The Northcote v. St. Kilda struggle,
which had shown signs of life on the previous
Saturday, quietly became extinct, last Saturday. St.
Kilda made 262 against Northcote’s 154. University
against Melbourne resulted in a win for the former. Mel-
bourne notched 266, to which the students replied
exuberantly with 294 for three wickets (Lewers 117 and
C. Miller 106 not out).
* * * *
Sydney Grammar School and S.C.E.G.S. having
tied for the Sydney Great Public Schools Cricket premier-
ship, a final to a finish was necessary. In this play-off,
S.G.S. piled up the mammoth score of 916—a world’s
rec rd for schools cricket—of which E. P. Barbour
scored 356 in 61 hours, and F. Farrar 229, with the con-
sistent “sundries” next on the list with 80. Sydney
O. of E. Grammar School scored 301 and 96, and went
down by an innings and 519 runs. Barbour was also a
destroyer with the ball, taking 11 wickets for 120 runs.
Some Sydney Grammar School boys’ perform-
ances stand out in the limelight in Great' Public School
cricket. In batting, Barbour averaged 77T ; Lamrock,
74'7 (Farrar, 66/7 ; Barry, 61'5. ■ln bowling, Barbour has
gathered in 56 wickets at an average of B's. These boys
are well in the running for higher recognition in future.
E. P. Barbour has been a fine performer during
the season, and now holds all the S.G.S. records. In ail
matches, up to the end of the premiership, he has
scored 2061 runs at an average of 66.7 ; and he has also
taken 135 wickets with the ball. B irbour represented
N.S.W. against Queensland this season, and gathered in
four wickets for 41 runs. Altogether, he appears likely
to be a shining light in the Australian cricket firmament.
• * * *
Motorists Harry James and J. Moffatt, who
tackled the Adelaide to Melbourne road record, struck a
slice of most infernal luck. After careering successfully
through the horrible Coorong Desert, and maintaining
their schedule time right through to within 22 miles of
Melbourne, the pipe that carries the petrol from the tank
to the engine suddenly choked, and by the time they got
it clear an hour had elapsed, and all chance of the record
was gone. They were well within time, too, being due at
Melbourne in 10.30 a.m. ; and after losing a full hour,
they arrived at 11.8, 38 minutes outside schedule time.
But for the disaster they would apparently have chipped
about half an hour off the White and Custance time.
However, they are both pretty gritty customers, and,
although there is at time of writing no announcement on
the subject, it is safe to wager the last dollar that they
will be heard from again shortly.
* tt ■* *
On April 5, J. Salvana, the artist cyclist, will
make another attempt to lower the time between Sydney
and Melbourne per bike. At present the record is held
by E. A. Pearson ; and Salvana has drawn up his time-
table to reduce it by two hours. Which gives him a little
margin to work on.
* » * *
N.S.W. amateur mile championship at Sydney
recently provided a fine tussle between half a dozen
athletes with envy bulging beneath their singlets. The
end of it was that the title fell, like the mantle of Elijah,
upon R. Fitzsimmons, with one Bradley six inches away,
and a whole crowd of others close up. The journey was
run in 4min. 48sec., which, considering the nature of the
going, was good. Fitzsimmons also holds the three-mile
premiership of Botany Club, and was a member of that
club’s team when it gathered in the cross-country and
10-mile championships last year. Fitz is quite a baby at
the game, having joined only at the tail end of the season
before last, and the men who know' things—or think they
do—tip him as a young man with a future.
Judging by the silence and obscurity that has
brooded over it during the last week, the blessed N.S W.
Rijo-by L-ague might be dead ; but, presumably, it is
merely chewing the cud of reflection, and wondering what
the deuce to do to make a splash and catch public, sup-
nort In one respect it will be an awful calamity if it
does'go bung, as with the League gone under we shall
never more see the play of the incomparable Messenger.
And it will be a long while before we see his like running
round again, judging by present indications.
* * * *
The row that broke out between the Maori team
and the N.S.W. Rugby League last season is still ragingin
the N.S.W. Equity Court. This is a fair sample of the delay
which holds the Law up to “scorn, hatred, ridicule and
contempt ” in the eyes of the straight-going lay T man. Of
course it doesn’t affect lawyers that way—they have, been
corrupted by long association with the “hass. A
gentleman named Jack claimed commission, or a per-
centage, or something, on the receipts of the tour, which
meant a fair amount of the useful. He flung about a few
injunctions, and finally got a verdict for £165. And that t
is all he did receive,'and do his darnedest he has been
unable to collect that £165. The action last week repre-
sented another step in the process of trying to rake in
what the defendants allege has no existence. They
declare that £56 is all they have, and offer to pay it over.
In the meantime the Master will investigate the accounts
of the tour.
* * * *
Since last issue of The Bulletin jockey Tom
Clayton has died, aged 25. It was stated at the inquest
that Clayton said his mount—All Blue —galloped on to
another nag’s heels ; hence the accident. But some on-
lookers express doubts. Jockeys’ impressions while rac-
ing are not, through excitement, reliable. Vet. Dental-
Surgeon Prof. W. Miller failed to discover the slightest
indication that All Blue’s broken shoulder was caused
through contact with anything, and therefore holds the
view that it was put out in running. Agitators for low
entry fees and the abolition of sweepstakes have had
a set-back in the evidence, which showed that big
fields are always possible causes of serious accident,
especially as they must frequently be made the medium of
training for “green” horses and equally verdant riders.
Unlike some of his calling, Clayton was a clean-living,
thrifty fellow, so his widow and orphan are not likely to
want. The dead jockey’s greatest successes dated from
his appropriation of the 1904 Melbourne Cup on Acrasia.
Another Melbourne Cup, two Caulfield Cups, two A.J.C.
St. Legers, an A.J.C. Derby, Australian Cup, Futurity-
Stakes, Tattersall’s Cup and Carrington Stakes were other
big events gathered by him, independent of many minor
hauls.
* * * *
Scratchings at Rosehill on Saturday totalled 92,
and still there were 96 starters —25 of them in Granville
Stakes, and the smallest fields (10) in Carlingford Mile and
Rawson Stakes. The Rawson Stakes attracted most at-
tention, because the starters included certain favored
ones for the coming A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap. Maltine
was made favorite at 10 to 9 on, and apparently was
voted a certainty. Ikey Mo. bellowed 8 to 1 (at which
figure the Doncaster favorite, Golden Slipper, stood) bar
one, and 10 to 1 against the Queenslander, Flaxen.
The finish was between the three named. Flaxen
proved the high quality of his Queensland form.
He contributed largely towards forcing things over
the greater part of the nine furlongs run, and shook well-
performed Neith off at the turn, to find himself tackled
by Golden Slipper and Maltine, whom he battled with,
ail grit, and compelled to turn on every ounce of speed
and stamina. It was a high tension and a most exciting
three-cornered struggle. Golden Slipper cracked first.
Maltine finished all out, half a length better than Flaxen,
and a length and a half in front of Golden Slipper. Mal-
tine will carry 101 b. more in the Doncaster than she did
at Rosehill, and Golden Slipper 31b. less ; hence it looks
as if the latter must turn the tables. Flaxen is not in the
race.
* * * *
“ 0.K.” : If I were sentenced by the Court to
back a “ double ” for the Doncaster Handicap and Sydney
Cup, with the option of a month’s imprisonment, I
would plank the 40s. on Maltine and Seddon, and half-a-
crown on Snapshot for the two miles race as a “ saver.”
* » * *
The N.S.W. Ladies’ Swimming Association is
making a she-ass of itself. Fathers are sternl,y refused
permission to see their little daughters swim at school
carnivals ; and the management—at starting, timekeep-
ing, handicapping, etc.—is worse than poor in some
instances, because man, whether as official or otherwise,
may not enter the gates. Yet many of the women of the
Association are regular surf bathers who mix among and
bathe in view of men every week. The climax was reached
a little while ago, when the 13-year-old daughter of a pro-
minent Sydney sporting person was not allowed to com-
pete at a ladies’ carnival because, forsooth, she had some
days before taken part in a race controlled by male
officials. A lady who had won a championship was for-
bidden to give The Bulletin a photo, of herself in swim-
ming costume. It was a beautiful photograph too. The
ridiculousness of the position is painful.
That blessed Sydney Y.M.C.A. Marathon
Race has not caught on very wildly. Only 42 entries
have been received, and the race has been fixed for Easter
week along the dusty roads of South Sydney'. The police
have been engaged to upset the traffic while the misguided
youths strain their hearts and other innards over the
chance of earning a £lO trophy.
* * * *
The Nimrod’s crew carried a burning question
with them into the cold, and the first query' belched forth
when they touched the outmost outpost of civilisation
again was: “ Who won the fight ? ”
* * « *
N. Y. Police Gazette is wondering if the
Caucasian is really played out. Sorpetime ago there
were three fights on the same night in Paris, in each of
which a black man met a white. And the blacks won all
three.
• * * *
When the Mclntosh arrived in London with
the Burns-Johnson pictures in his portmanteau, he was
received somewhat coldly by the picture people. They
were not enthusiastic over the films, and really didn’t
seem to care whether they showed them or not. The
Mclntosh put his head on one side and thought hard ;
after which he made a few inquiries, and then arrived at
the decision that there was something like a ring that
was prepared to squeeze him dry. Mac’s language was
superb. He wasn’t going to be bulldozed by anybody.
He would shake ’em up. So he opened a London office
and “ a publicity department,” from whence he proceeded
to boom the pictures, and arrange to lease the films him-
self. Then, according to his own account (and the
Mclntosh is a reliable man), London took off its hat to
him, and has been holding it in its hand ever since, while
it addresses him as “ Mr. Mclntosh, of Sydney.”
When he left here it was understood that, bar-
ring a scrap between Jeffries and Johnson and a possible
return riot between Burns and Johnson, Mclntosh was
out of the fighting business for good. Now we read that
he has approached James Britt with an arrangement by
which that young man will eome to Australia and dial
out three sets of stoush, of which one lot will fall on
Thorne. Ketchell is also being sounded re a trip to this
continent. Altogether, it would appear that Mr. Mcln-
tosh, of Sydney, is suffering from an acute attack of
energy.
* * * *
Griffo was once a name to conjure with in
Sydney; but, apparently, a new generation has arisen
which knows not Joseph ; and the subscription that was
being raised to fetch his ruins back to Sydney stopped
short at £3l Bs. Which is not enough to bring him back
to Sydney. Who is to look after him when he gets back
has not transpired. Probably he has more friends in the
U.S.A. than he has in Sydney now, and to bring h m
to a place where he is apparently forgotten, excepting by
a very few, may, after all, be mistaken kindness.
* * * *
Gentleman Jim Corbett, who long ago killed
Jonel Sullivan’s pugilistic pig, is breathing slaughter.
James felt very sore over the success of Johnson, and
threatens that if Jeffries won’t come back and mop up
Johnson he will have to do the job himself. Jeffries
doesn’t seem too pleased at Corbett’s talk, and the cogno-
scenti are chuckling, regarding it as an indication that
Jeffries really does mean, if he can get fit, to come back
and try to smash up Lil Artha. Offers of £lO,OOO purses
are flying round as thick as blackberries, and the ex-boiler-
maker is further tempted by the fact that if he can whip
the presumptuous black, he can make another swag of
about £40,000 just travelling round the country showing
himself as the man who did it. But, contrary to all the
alleged remarks he is said to have made at various times,
it is well known that Jeffries holds a very high opinion of
Johnson’s fighting ability ; and he is not going to make
any admission that he intends to fight the champion till
he has finished “trying himself out.” When he feels
morally' certain that he can whip Johnson, he will spread
the glad tidings that he is on the job. Somehow, writer
doesn’t think he will ever feel that way. The chances
are much more likely that Johnson will meet his Waterloo
when he faces Kauffman.
* * * *
Jack Johnson’s alleged statement that when he
fights in Amurka it will only be under a black referee is
probably a bit of alleged humor. The Yankee is no sport,
certainly, and some of his decisions would make a brass
monkey blush, but it is hard to see how a black referee
would help Johnson out. Probably the cullid pusson
would be overawed by the crowd, and find it safer to go
against his own color than be suspected of unduly favor-
ing it. Joe Gans (who remained on deck an unusually
long time), Walcott, Langford, Blackburn, Dixon and
other colored fighters have always pugged under white
referees, and apparently got on well enough. Johnson
argues that they did not fight for the heavyweight cham-
pionship of the world ; but Gans fought for the light-
weight premiership, and had it awarded often enough.
* * •* *
Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd., have had a
Michelin Nonskid Tyre, 880x120, given to them after
covering 10,000 miles on back wheel, and still notcutor
burst in any way', and good enough to be rerubbered, and
would probably do a good many thousand miles yet. It
can be seen at their dep6t, Melbourne.*
* • • *
Maoriland Rifle Championship meeting at
Trentham provided good shooting. The principal item—
the championship belt—was won by Lieut. Duncan (who
thereby gathered in the belt, medal, badge, and £5O),
with a score of 491 points ; Corporal Patrick was close up
with 490, and takes £25, silver star, and badge. The
Rifle Challenge Cup for the highest range scorer in the
King’s Prize match (10 shots at 1000yds.) ended
in seven shootists having scores of 47 each;
and in the final try-out Sergeant F. James, with a score
of 23, took the mug. James put up the excellent per-
formance of 11 bull’s-eyes out of 15 plugs at the 1000yds.
target. In the practical part of the programme—the
running man and other “ surprises ’’—the shooting was
not up to the standard ; and it is apparent that the rifle
associations would act sanely by cutting out the rigid
target and encouraging more practical methods of rifle-
shooting.
THE STOUSH O’ DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Refreshed wif sleep, Day to the mornin’ mill
Comes jauntily to out the nigger, Night.
Trained to the minute, confident in skill,
’E swaggers in the East, chock-full o’ skite ;
Then spars a bit an’ plugs Night on the point.
Out go the stars ; an’ Day ’as jumped the joint.
The sun looks up, an’ wif a cautious stare,
Like some crook keekin’ o’er a winder sill
To make dead cert’in everythink is square,
’E shoves ’is boko o’er an Eastern ’ill.
Then rises, wif ’is dial all a-grin,
An’ ses, “ ’Ooray 1 I knoo thet we could win 1”
Sure of ’is title then, the champion Day
Begins to put on dorg among' ’is push,
An’, as he mooches on ’is gaudy way,
Drors tribute from each tree an’ flow’r an’ bush.
An’, w’ile ’e swigs the dew in sylvan bars,
The sun shouts insults at the sneakin’ stars.
Then, lo 1 the push o’ Day rise to applaud ;
An’ all ’is creatures clamor at ’is feet
Until ’e thinks ’imself a little gawd,
An’ swaggers on an’ kids ’imself a treat.
The w’ile the lurkin’ satylites o’ Night
Sneak in retreat an’ plan another fight.
On thro’ the hours, triumphant, proud an’ fit,
The champion marches on ’is up’ard way,
Till, at the zenith, blime ! ’E—is— lt !
And all the world bows to the Boshter Day.
The jealous Night speeds ethergrams thro’ space
Hotly demandin’ terms, an’ time, an’ place.
A w’ile the champion scorns to make reply,
So much obsessed is ’e by ’is own worth ;
Puffed up wif pride, an’ livin’ mighty ’igh,
’E don’t admit that Night is on the earth.
But as the hours creep on ’e deigns to state
’E’ll fight for all the earth an’ arf the gate.
Late afternoon... Day feels ’is flabby arms,
An’ tells ’imself ’e don’t seem quite the thing.
The ’omin’ birds shriek clamorous alarms ;
An’ Night creeps stealthily to gain the ring.
But, see ! The champion backs an’ fills, becos
’E doesn’t feel the Boshter Bloke ’e was.
Time does a bunk as us-u-al, nor stays
A single instant, e’en at Day’s be’est.
Alas, the champion's ’igh-livin’ ways
’As made ’im soft, an’ large around the vest.
’E ses ’e’s fat inside ; ’e starts to whine ;
’E ses ’e wants to dror the color line.
Relentless nigger Night crawls thro’ the ropes,
Advancing' grimly on the quakin’ Day,
Whose noisy push, shorn of their ’igh-noon ’opes,
Wait, ’ushed an’ anxious, fer the pendin’ fray.
And many lusty barrackers of noon
Desert ’im one by one—traitors so soon !
“ ’E’s out er form ! ’E ’asn’t trained enough ! ”
They mark their sickly champion on the stage,
An’ narked, the sun, ’is backer, in a huff,
Sneaks outer sight, red in the face wif rage.
W’ile gloomy roosters, they ’oo made the morn
Ring wif ’is praises, creep to bed forlorn.
All faint an’ groggy grows the beaten Day ;
’E staggers drunkenly about the ring ;
An owl ’oots jeeringly across the way,
An’ bats come out to mock the failin’ King.
Now, wif a jolt, Night spreads ’im on the floor,
An’ all the West grows ruddy wif ’is gore.
A single, vulgar star leers from the sky
An’, in derision, rudely mutters, “ Yah ! ”
The moon, Night’s concubine, comes glidin’ by
An’ laughs a ’eartless, silvery “ Ha-ha ! ”
Scorned, beaten, Day gives up the ’opeless fight,
An’ drops ’is bundle in the lap o’ Night.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


m
LIFE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT
If you want to add to its pleasures, ride a
B. AND B. CYCLE.
No other machine runs so easily, with such little effort.
No other machine will gratify your desires so well.
B. AND B. MODELS, fitted with first-class tyres,
guaranteed 12 months, price jfill.
Send for our 1909 Catalogue.
Mention this paper when writing:.
BEHNETT 8, BRRKELL,
The Largest Cycle-building
House in the Sr,ate,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereag-h Street, Sydney.
Before
After
FAX PEOPLE!
NORMAL HERBAL OBESITY CURE will
reduce your weight three to five pounds a
week, and relieve that feeling of fulness and
oppression by producing healthy digestion and
assimilation. It strengthens the heart and
enables you to breathe easily, removes double
chin, large stomach, fat hips, &c. No person is
so fat but what it will have the desired effect.
We absolutely guarantee satisfaction in every
case. It will cost you nothing to try it. Write
for a Free Trial Sample and Eree Booklet on
the dangers and cure of Obesity.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
44 4V Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BILLIARDS LTD.
630, 632 and 634 George Street, SYDNEY (near Liverpool Street)
2 5 Full-Size
AlcocK Tables.
Several Private Rooms, luxuriously furnished,
each fitted with One Table—as well as
the Public Halls.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Income for 1908 15 per
cent, increase on figures
for 1907.
47 per cent . of Total
Funds invested in Govern-
ment Securities.
Directors:
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P.,
VICTOR E. LUDLOW, L.R.C.5.1.,
L.R.Q.C.P.1.,
CLAUDE MANNING-, Esq.,
DAVID W. WATKINS, Esq.
General Manager :
J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary;
FREEMAN J. EATON.
Principal Offices :
VICTORIA—I4B Queen Street, Melbourne ; NEW SOUTH WALES—3O Castlereagh Street,
s y dne y; QUEENSLAND—Metropolitan Buildings, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
ANDREW McGEE
A smooth, clean and pleasant shave is always the result of using an
AUTO-STROP SAFETY RAZOR.
Its permanent thin edge makes shaving
a pleasure—strops itself.
Triple Silver-plated Safety Frame, One Dozen Auto-Stroi
Certified Blades, Auto-Strop Certified Horsehide Strop, ir
handsome Leather Case, 25/- Extra Blades, 3/- a doz.
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 Castlereagh St. (corner Hunter St.).
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAYS.
m
Ride only
n'mrcs 1
Kf
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
k AH Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free-
B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
Saddle
QAPILLARINE,
The Moustache
Producer.
Ĥ
Ħ
THE MOUSTACHE YOU ENVY.
at thp S ° hard to . S ' et the thick silky moustache with the droop
at the ends, don t give up trying-write straight away for a jar of
CAPILLARINE,
h] K your°case 6 «»/«"« ia £ aS n „ ver failed for 25 years >' ifc won,t
y se. PRICEIO/6 A JAR. Posted in plain wrapper to any
address in the world FREE.
CRAI6 & AITKEN, 654 St., Sydney
Established 25 Years.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip,
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc,, entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Blig'h Street, SYDNEY.
H
-•••
- •
I
'
■
i
m.
; :
'vkv •
ev
i 2 nmm
i
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Manufacturers of General Rubber Goods,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
“D.M.W.” writes from Maoriland :
Felix Tanner, the hero who holds the record for fasting,
who is occasionally hanged, and who gives exhibitions of
tight-rope walking in the intervals when he is not diving
for buried treasure or circumnavigating Maoriland in a
tub, has discovered a cure for cancer. Last year he
discovered a remedy for potato blight, and he has in
hand a specific guaranteed to cure the Dominion from
the after-effects of Ward’s borrowing policy. When not
engaged in his scientific labors, Felix pursues his hobby
of coach painting.
By the Oldest Inhabitant :
Robert Byrne, of Victoria, who died on Friday, aged
88 years, had a curious political history. He was a
me nber of the old-time house-furnishing firm of Beau-
champ and Byrne, which became Beauchamp and Rocke
when Byrne retired to take up a real property business.
His Parliamentary career was short and exciting. Premier
McCulloch had been in office for 14 months without filling
the post of Commissioner of Trade and Customs. He
then appointed George Rolfe, a merchant who had no
seat in Parliament. This caused Byrne to propose (and
carry) a vote of censure, and McCulloch retired.
J. A. Macpherson and Robert Byrne formed a Ministry
of which Byrne was Treasurer, but on going to
his constituents for re-election he was thrown out in
favor of the same George Rolfe about whom the trouble
had taken place. Byrne’s complete Ministerial career
lasted four months ; Rolfe’s only 18 days. Byrne’s dis-
appearance (he gave up politics after that) brought
Graham Berry into office for the first time. Byrne was
born in Dublin, and went to New York in the troubled
year of 1848, and took to auctioneering. He only stayed
there four years, and the rest of his life was spent in
Victoria.
The Farmers and Producers’ Union in
S.A., which has always been looked on as a foal
of the National Ass., is just now trying to make
. , , , * * . ,
up its mind whether rt is best to throw in its lot
with the lory animal or to fraternise with Trea-
surer Teake s Liberal and Democratic Union,
The F. and P. U. is ready to swallow some kind
of progressive land taxation and compulsory re-
purchase, but feels shocked at Peake’s declaration
that his land-tax proposal is not meant for revenue
purposes, but to hasten the burst-up of large
estates. Still the situation is regarded as hopeful,
for quite a number of South Australian farmers are
good democrats, and Goode, Russel], and a few
others are members of the Parliamentary Labor
party.
.. TT , , . .
Charlie Hudson, late of this earth and of
the Victorian railways, began his career in the
service of the Great Western Co. (England). At
the age of 21 he was secretary to the Commis-
sioners of the North Island railway system,
Maoriland. After a few years he ascended by
jumps to the jobs of organiser and railway audit
inspector, district manager, and finally assistant
general manager. Then Tasmania lured him into
the managership of the Flyspeck railways in 1901.
Two years later he took the somewhat worrying
job of Third Commissioner of Victorian State
Fnes. This was about the time when a cigar
attached to a tall Canadian form in a plug hat
became chief. Hudson was an able man, and in
his department—that of accountancy and finance
—was considered an expert. He was only 56 years
of age when he died.
<txr w 1 , ~ ~ ~ ~
Kodak : Notwithstanding the patriotic
P)F e °* P T < 20ook, and the Jingo hysteria of Wade,
Edward VII. seems to betaking things calmly,
According to the cable, H.M. and his consort
‘‘have arranged to embark at Marseilles about
the middle of April next for a short cruise in the
Mediterranean. I always thought that, in times of
national stress, the good monarch rushed back to
nis capital, put on all his regalia, sat down hard
on his throne, and issued numberless proclama-
tions, in which he defied all the world and ignored
grammar by calling himself “we.” Either I
have been toiling under a delusion these many
years, or else the present ruler of the empire is a
happy-go-lucky person, who drops the crown
jewels in the bath-room andsticks the sceptre in the
hall-stand. Possibly Edward, as a man of expe-
rience, detects the smell of printer’s ink in the
artificial crisis. It is a wise monarch who refuses
to shy when a number of newspapers blow loosely
about the national highway.


NAPOLEON
SAID
“An army marches on its stomach."
By that he meant that half-starved
men are not strong enough to march.
And you know that. Half-fed men
and women are not strong enough,
either for work or play. Indigestion
means slow starvation The people
who tire and become deptessed, who
feel life a burden and who go listlessly
to their day's work, would find life
enjoyable if they set their digestion
right with Mother Seigel's Syrup—
the digestive tonic compounded of
roots and herbs Test it yourself.
' I suffered greatly fi om Asthma and In-
digestion. t could not sleep at night from
Asthma, nor digest the little food I ate.
Aftei many other medicines had failed, 1
was quickly cured, two s ears ago, by Mother
Seigel's Syrup.’!
Extract from letter of Mr Wu. Law,
408, Ann Street. Bi isbane, Queensland,
November ipd 1908.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
CARBIDE.
For FirsPCiass Results use Best Scandinavian
“ PERNIX” Carbide.
Addresses of Merchants distributing: it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
I Series, IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
“ I suffered from night sweats,
great weakness, pains in my
chest, and coughed up great
quantities of phlegm. The
doctor told me I had a pre-
Ĥ
disposition to
consumption,
and advised
SCOTT’S Emulsion. After
taking SCOTT’S for a short
time I felt quite strong and
well, and the same doctor said
my lungs were completely
Ħ
healed,
thanks to
SCOTT'S
Emulsion.” (Mrs.) Elizabeth
Windsor, 17 Thomas Street,
Camperdown,Sydney,N.S.W.,
1/9/08. Doctors order Scott’s
in preference to other emul-
H
sions because
experience
has shown
them that Scott’s saves life.
There is only one SCOTT’S
(with SCOTT’S “fishman”
pasted on the salmon-coloured
package) and it has been sa-
Ĥ
ving life for
33 years past.
This is why,
when you hear
the word “ emul-
sion you always
think of the word
SCOTT’S. Of all
chemists and
Ħ
dealers in medicines.
QUEENSLAND,
THE QUEEN STATE OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
“MOUNT LARCOMBE” Estate
14,400 ACRES FREEHOLD,
IS NOW BEING SUBDIVIDED INTO AREAS TO SUIT PURCHASERS.
The public of Gladstone and surrounding: districts have for many years been anxious for the Government to
acquire this most famous estate for the purpose of closer settlement, and, although it has been in the occupancy or
practically one family for the last 46 years, we have now arranged to subdivide it into
RICH DAIRY AND AGRICULTURAL FARMS.
The secret of successful farming, with a view to making a fortune, is to be
IN THE HEAVY RAINFALL AREA.
“ MOUNT LARCOMBE ” is situated between Mount Alma, which is 2300 feet above sea level, and Mount
Larcombe, -which is 2100 feet above sea level, and the property is only 6 miles from the coast. ...
The average rainfall is 43 inches per annum, and the property is watered most magnificently witn
absolutely permanent running streams, to which every farm will have a frontage.
PRICES ARE ABSURDLY LOW. TERMS VERY EASY.
A Railway Station is on the property, and the township of Gladstone is only 21 miles distant.
“ MOUNT LARCOMBE ” does not want booming, as it will sell itself. We are so satisfied with this fact that
we will pay the fare of purchasers from any part of the States.
No survey or residential conditions. _ , ,
If you want a farm with Magnificent Soil, Rich Dairying Land, with flats suitable for Lucerne, 1 otato
growing and Maize, etc., great money producing land, and up amongst the rainfall, get a move on sharp, and
inspect “MOUNT LARCOMBE.”
For further particulars apply to—
WEAVER & GLASSON, LIMITED,
COLONIAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS, 289 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Branches at TOOWOOMBA, PITTSWORTH, DALBY and CHARLEVILLE.
Combination Couch and Bed.
- - ms . as i i s atnam aaeanagaa.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. * in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
\Jrider - Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Gastlereag-h Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21 /■
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP.
Tails from 7/6.
Telephone 2138.
H
Ĥ
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
elba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/-post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES —ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN 8? CO., P'ly. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
SMOKE
/3T
REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
Business, Robbery, etc.
There is trouble in the York-street (Sydney)
softwoods camp. The Associated Warehousemen (com-
prising: eight leading- firms), which body has existed since
1879, has been dissolved. The A.W.’s articles prescribed
the credit terms to be given by its members. But
woollens were exempted at the request of one firm,
which found that tailors, having a proverbially hard job
in getting their money, asked and obtained extra-long
credit terms from the woollen houses which are mostly
outside the A.W. After a time those members of the
A. W. who don’t worry about the woollen trade found that
the exemption w as being extended to buttons, braid, and
other tailor’s trimmings. So they bucked. Where-
upon a very big firm withdrew, and intimated that
it didn’t care what happened to the Association.
The Association then busted in the middle of January.
It was re-formed next month, the very big firm still
standing out, but after a new and strugglesome existence
of three weeks it went to pieces again on February 26.
William McMillan (of W. and A. McArthur) has the barren
honor of being chairman of the ruins. At latest, the
Association was still in fragments, and the eight dis-
sociated firms and the 50 or 60 outsiders were all
scrambling along in disorder without any rules, system,
or organisation whatsoever.
* * * *
One branch of private enterprise is sadly in
need of reorganisation, and the men who run it are
known to be on the look-out for a sharp young man with
bright, original ideas and a desire to make money in a
hurry. State interference has demoralised the opium
trade, and the drug is practically unprocurable. Prices
have soared up from £2 to £5 per tin in Sydney, and to
£7 per tin in outlying districts. The losses in the trade
have been immense, no less than 2000 tins having been
seized during the year. It is whispered that the long
previous immunity was an official trap. Finding that
small parcels got through easily enough, the importers
were lured into bringing big consignments, and then the
Customs swooped like a crow on a defunct horse, and as
a result the opium importer is badly hit. There is no
credit in the opium trade. It is not even a c.o.d. trans-
action. The cash is paid with the order, and from that
moment the importer takes all risks. And he is just
beginning to realise that the risks are very numerous
indeed.
* * * *
“Dandalup” : The scheme submitted to the
N.S.W. Fisheries Board by the Maoriland Fisheries Cq.
for the wholesale slaughter of Br’er Shark, and the estab-
lishment of refineries and factories along the coast for the
manufacture of oil, fertilisers, and other products from
the deceased solicitor, has a lot to recommend it. From
personal experience I know’ there is good money in the
marine attorney even for the small toiler on thedeep. Many
of the fishermen on the Westralian coast, and especially
those in the vicinity of the Abrolhos Islands and Shark
Bay, make fairly corpulent cheques annually out of the
fins and tails only of the monsters who happen along
their way. The fins and tails, of which the Chinese make
soups, jellies, etc., are dried in the sun and sold t°
the coastal merchants at abput 7d. per lb. The merchants
ship to China, and sell at from 2s. to 3s. to the Chinese
dealers, and these dealers realise up to 6s. per lb. for the
much-travelled goods,
THE SAD ERRORS OF BILL ROBINSON
THE YOUNGER.
[FOR THE BULLETI N.]
You Australians own a delightful country ; but it
strikes me you’re going the pace mighty strong. — Jack
London.
The market for Australian stocks is shy.— Neivs item.
Only about one-fourth of the last N.S.W. loan was
publicly subscribed.— News item.
Victoria is awaiting favorable opportunity for placing a
£1,500,000 loan on the British market. A Westralian
flotation will probably follow. — Neivs item.
In 1906 the total amount of State loans was £237,927,820,
which amounted to £SB 3s. 4d. per head of population.
That, on the face of it, does appear to he a heavy load to
hear. —Argus, %61%1'09.
To Bill Robinson the younger said Bill Robinson the old—
‘‘ There’s a place I know down Southward almost worth
its weight in gold,
And it’s waiting for you, William, with the title written
fair ;
Go and graft as I have grafted and you’ll he a millionaire.”
William went, and William grafted, happy as the day was
long;
Built him barns and sheds and fences, and a humpy good
and strong ;
And he ploughed and sowed and harrowed, plied the
shear-blades and the brand,
And a happy lad was William in his sunny southern land ;
For the wool clips, and the wheat crops, and the poddies
as they grew,
And a gold mine in the mountains brought him wond’rous
revenue ;
But to celebrate his fortune William sought a city shrine,
And there Robinson the younger took to drinking costly
wine.
And he met a charming damsel with a sweet and silvery
laugh,
And an aptitude for showing lingerie about her calf;
She was always so enchanting that he cared not what he
spent,
And at last he made her happy with a nice establishment.
’Twasn’t like the good old humpy ;it was something
roofed with tile,
With its furniture and fixings in the up-to-datest style ;
And it cleaned him out of “ready,” so he mortgaged next
year’s wool,
And he purchased costly presents for his Lady Beautiful.
And he tired of drinking shandy in a common, low-down
pub ;
So Bill Robinson the younger joined a most exclusive
club ;
And he gambled and he borrowed and financed alluring
“ rings,”
Until Robinson the younger made a holy mess of things.
Then he wrote to Bill the elder, and he pitched a tale of
woe :
“ They will sell me up,, oh father, if you don’t pay what I
owe ! ”
But the old man answered : “ William, cease, oh cease to
drink and shirk,
Likewise, shun the Scarlet Woman, and go back again to
work ! ”
William went and William grafted ; but he liquored just
the same,
And he languished like a lover for his little Scarlet Dame.
So he built a country mansion that was good enough for
her,
And provided week-end transit—motor car and ga} r .
chauffeur.
And the end of Bill the younger, ah ! the end came very
soon,
For the bailiffs seized his southland one November
afternoon ;
And they sold it to a stranger, swarth and monkey-like
and slim ;
And as nothing better offered Bill was forced to work for
him.
And through hungry hours of labor William hastened to
repent.
And he moaned the Scarlet Woman and her gay estab-
lishment,
And he wrote to Bill the elder pitching stronger tales of
woe;
But the old man answered only : “ William, lad, I told
you so.”
This is something of a fable, with a moral worn and old ;
But we’ve had our wondrous wool-clips and our wheat-
crops and our gold.
And we’ve got our Scarlet Woman, and she’s run us into
debt, ■
*Now it’s time to graft like Hades, or we’ll face the bailiffs
yet.
VICTORIA.
MILKY WHITE.


o
o
D
0
Franco-British Exhibition,
London, 1908.
The Grandest Show the World has Seen.
ALL RECORDS BROKEN.
GRAND PRJX for Tonal Qualities and General Excellence®
DIPLOME d’HONNEUR, Iron and &teel Work,
GOLD MEDAL, Excellence of Cabinet Work,
GOLD MEDAL, Factory Organisation,
SILVER. MEDAL, Brass and Bronze Work,
FOUR SEPARATE JURIES AND TRIE GRAND JURY.
The leading violin expert of Europe and two French Piano-Manufacturers
judged Tonal Qualities and Construction. The other Juries judged according to
excellence of work in their separate trades.
These are the HIGHEST AWARDS EVER GAINED by any PIANO
at any INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
iiimii i ww Mwi-mu . -, r , rwjll .j ninjnMa;^^
A large number of competitors exhibited. Commendations were showered
upon us in London by eminent players and composers, including the accompanist
to Madame Adelina Patti, Mr. Wilhelm Ganz, and other experts. Specimens
were purchased for leading French and English hotels, including the newest and
largest hotel of London the Strand Palace Hotel. Consult us about your old
piano and instal the Beale Piano to the joy of your household
Eleven Thousand Beale Pianos are now in use.
Direct from factory to family.
Cash or Easy Terms. Guaranteed for 25 years.
Catalogues by Post.
[From the London Musical Courier,
November 21, 1908.']
Messrs. Beale and Co.
rpHE winning- of the Grand Prix awarded by the Franeo-
British Exhibition for Pianos reflects the highest
credit upon Messrs. Beale and Co., of Sydney, Australia.
Every Britisher should feel proud that an Australian firm
should have built upsuch an extensive and self-contained
piano manufactory so far away from the old-world
centres. Their aim has obviously been to make hi'di-class
musical instruments, both grands and uprights, and that
they have succeeded is proved by the honors thus con-
ferred upon them.
The committee of expert judges recorded their convic-
tion that Messrs. Beale and Co.’s pianos in tonal qualities
and construction, together with those of the old historic
houses of London and Paris, deserved the highest award 1
—the Grand Prix.
But Messrs. Beale & Co., desirous of further upholding
the banner of Australian industries, entered in competi-
tion for invention and factory organisation, for which
they received the gold medal. Another gold medal was
given them in the competition for cabinet work. This is
certainly significant, for in both of these classes they
were brought directly into competition with the French
and the English high-class furniture producers. Their
bronze and brass castings were considered worthy the
silver medal in competition with many of the leading
firms of the world. They were awarded the Diplome
d Honneur (next to the Grand Prix) for their castings
(made from Australian iron) and for steel work. This we
believe to be a unique record for a piano manufacturer as
embracing the several trades included in the business.
There is a tendency in these days, when the aggregate
output of pianos is annually increasing, to
cost of production wherever possible without sufficiently
adjusting this to the inevitably adverse consequences of
the future. Messrs. Beale and Co. had the perspicacity to
see that by using the best materials only, and those well
conditioned, combined with the most approved method
of construction, they could build up a great and endur-
ing business. Their success has been exceptional, result-
ing in the erection of one of the Iargestand best equipped
factories in the British domains, producing 1700 pianos
annually. r
The very heart of the Beale piano, the iron and steel
tuning system, is the firm’s own original invention. In
this the iron wrest-plank forms an integral part of the
frame, thus securing absolute rigidity, a greater length
of string, and higher tension than is possible with the
wooden wrest-plank. It is claimed that the striiio- will
remain permanently at the desired pitch.
The sounding boards are made of timber devoid of
resin, with no tendency to expand or contract from heat
or cold. They are, further, made impervious to moisture
by a specially prepared coating (invented by the firm)
which acts as the varnish used by the old violin makers
in giving added resonance. The firm claims that these
sounding- boards may be immersed in water for 24 hours
and allowed to dry in the sun without affecting them in
the least. The glue used is a new odorless preparation
made in Australia for the firm, from cuttings of hides
only. It is found to be far superior to the glue in general
use. ®
The other portions of the pianos are prepared with the
same care, and it must be obvious that Messrs Beale and
Oo.’s pianos are specially adapted to withstand the most
trying atmospheric conditions. For example, the climate
of Western Australia and the Soudan are noted for their
extreme dryness, and Fiji and Madras for their extreme
moisture. These adverse conditions have been success-
fully met and provided for by the company in their
extensive business throughout Australasia. " We have
inspected these pianos and the indispensable requisites
enumerated above. Many thousands have examined
their original construction, and expressed delight with t he
tone qualities and general appearance of durability of
these instruments during the Franeo-British Exhibition.
SEALE <a CO. Lt
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat;
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
B) manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and Spray
Heart CHARM,
7/6
Shall we mail you a copy ? It contains over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and Optical
Goods, and is yours for the asking. Write for it now, even if you are not buying for some time to come. With it you
CAN BUY IN PERFECT SAFETY through our UP-TO-DATE MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
CHARM
Amethyst
Thistle,
126
A. SAUNDERS.
>ct. Gold CROSS, set Fine Pearls,
25
15et. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire,
£4/10/
All Diamonds, £5/10/,
'A. SaGNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set Fine
White Pearls,
£4-
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold, set O-ial,
Ruby, or Sapphire,
17 Hi
15ct. Gold, 30/; 18ct.
Gold, £2.
OPEN
FACE,
10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open-face, Keyless
WATCHES, Short-wind, stem set, per-
fectly regulated,
10/-
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6.
9ct. Gold, Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, with Safety Chain attached,
Larger, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/. Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/, 60/, 70/, 80/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold, 2-Bar “Dinna Forget”
Garnet centre,
, 10/6
Other styles, 17/6, 20/.
BROOCH,
9ct. Gold yifriet RING,
20/. 15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, with Safety Chain,
£3/10/-
m
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set Fine
Pearls and Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SALNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
'2i\
13ct. Gold, 40/; Silver, 4/6.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting, Keyless
WATCHES, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly
Adjusted,
25'
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/. 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £B/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3,
and, 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH, set Fine
Pearls and Opal Body,
£4-
All Pearls, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pearls and Tourmaline
or Peridot.
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold “Lily of the Valley” Spray BROOCH, set
Fine White Pearls,
£4-.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, set
Fine Golden Sap-
phire, £3, £4, £5
according to size
of stone.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine Dia-
monds and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5-
Diamonds and Emeralds,
£l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, se*
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
Green or Golden Sapphires, £5.
Ħ
H
Ĥ
Ħ
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold NECKLET and PEN-
DANT, set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BAMBOO BRACELET,, Halt-chased, with
Safety Chain attached,
£2/15/.
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Five Pure Golden Sapphires,
££>•
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
A. SXUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2/10/-
A. SAUjnDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds,
and
Rubies, or. Sapphires,
£l5-
All Diamonds, £27/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Pine,
Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold EARRINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
£3
For Pierced or Unpierced Ears.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
lii/G
15ct. Gold, 25/; Silver, 3/6.
SOLID
GOLD,
£l2/10/.
m
SEs
teas
KiM
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct. Gold, Hunting, Keyless
Waltham LEVER, f-plate, fully jewel-
led, compensation balance, perfectly
adjusted, extra heavy case, hand-
engraved,
£l2/10/-
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in Free Repair for 6 Years.
HIGHER
GRADE,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel, Open-face, Keyless WATCHES,
|-Plate, Shortwind, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Dust and Water Proof Cases,
20/-
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/,
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
OUR
“UNRI-
VALLED
20/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH,
set Pearls and Tourmalines,
or Peridots,
£2-
A. SAUADDKS.
18qt. Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies' or Sapphires,
£3/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
Ali Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
Our System of Free Car-
riage on Goods to any
part of the Country means
a big saving to you.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
Fine Pearls and Amethyst,
£2-
iaarjT3i
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine White Pearls and Tour-
malines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDKRS.
18et. Gold, Clus-
ter RING, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£lO
Emerald Centre,
£l2/10/.
With the exceptions of
Clocks and Chinaware, we
send all Goods Carriage
Free to any part of Aus-
H
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double Curb ALBERT, made in our own workshops, £3. Heavier, £3/10/,
£6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. In Sol
12/6, 15/, 20/. In 14kt Patent Gold-filled, Guaranteed, 20s, 25/, 30/. Any Special Design
£4, £4/10/, £5/10/,
id Silver, 8/6, 10/6,
of Albert to order.
Si m
m i
0 5
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls, Ruby,
and Turquoise, or all Pearls,
£3/10/-
Olivines, Rubies* and Pearls, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver, Hunting, Keyless
LEVER, f-plate movement, fully jewelled,
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/,
£lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £l7/10, £2O, to
£75. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, 6, and 7 A ears.
SOLID
SJLVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


/
Ulb
V \
\ \
\ \
s \
»
E
H
i
s
S
6
ft
CLi
iETWEEN
L
Ĥ
M
S 3
ill
i
m
itmiinilDllll
w
rv n 7 ir
II
r>r
mj
c
©TO
n
3!
©@
$
P)
1!
_ mi
TOR WMj
M>PDf A6EN
OP" *
M onEY
ALD PORTvS %


mr
111
H
AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
i | I
• Vs .
ffi, fearf
4 ■! -AS \i
m
.
»3
V.
K'43
■ . *
«LJ
;;-<v
; • i'< A
tS
.
c.: ; >rt<
m
H
si
1115
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
Free for
Ħ
IN THE BOSH THESE BOOKS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MOCH SUFFERING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
To the Manager,
THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Please forward me the following Medical
Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
“The Illustrated Australian IVledical Guide,” 2 Vo Is.
(2nd Edition)
“ The Attainment of Health ; and Treatment by Diet ”
(2nd Edition)
“ The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants ”
(7th Edition)
I remit herewith Sixty Shillings, for which you undertake to forward the
above works complete, carefully packed, and post free. I am, yours etc.,
Postage
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name. —
A ddress.
1909.
£3 3 0
O 10 6
0 2 6
0 5 0
£4 10


'
I ■ B
N
Si
WHAT A “BOSKER”!
“ Say, Dad, what a ‘ Bosker ’ Rug ! ”
“Yes, Sonny Boy, I grew it! Vicars, Marrickville, made it
—all wool, and nothing but wool ! Gowings sell it 1 Only 20s.
post free anywhere. And don’t you think you had better quit
that Summery get up ? Tell Gowings you want one of their
70s. hand-made Winter Suits, and they will send you patterns
and self-measurement forms. Also, what about an Overcoat ?
Remember
GOWING BROS.,
w (Estab. 1868)
George Street, Sydney.”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
Fo NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦ Twin Screw. Calling-at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Bern. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
™ jjank of north floeeoslaod
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager : R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,488,590 12 6
Reserve Fund 1,260,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,248,590 12 6
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Coiien, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. E. W. Knox, Esq.
A. .T. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq. ; W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
H. H. Massie, W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
md in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
y
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.’w.
UlontdepieteO. Co.,Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE anti BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 CollinB-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Sihith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Qrioe, Eaq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOR HOW,MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
TERMS ARRANGED.
ADVERTISER holding Valuable Agencies in Hard-
ware, Softgoods, Soaps, Glassware, Wines,
Spirits, etc., would admit Gentleman with £lOOO
as full PARTNER in Indent Business. Management
and Capital under own control. Fullest investigation.
References. WRICHT, Business Agent,
441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of f|aw Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. CaMpbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia; JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
H
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
April 8.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
Ma}’ 12.
PERSIC, RUNIC, and MEDIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation*
FARES—Capetown or Durban &15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on An plication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dahjetf) and < oinpani/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ RB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
f New' Steamer. * Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
Ĥ
CRUISES. C
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay Interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
( b ) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during:
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan Instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date-; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertifioated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Banking.
Hotels, &c.
Bank if Rea South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. ..£'2,500,000 0 0
Resefve Fund 1,(300,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. O. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. .Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald Jambs Black, M.L.C.
Sir Jambs Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Auditors:
j William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
| Shepheard Edgeclifp Laidley, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Cojlects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Bank of fjusfralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,610,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,810,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL '-BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
'Lari
i 1
Grosvenor
Hotel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elejrant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day ; Room and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special Rates by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., S6O Central, 300 City.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
Wast Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at; Fremantle
to ail North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
•S.S. Grantala, April 24.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
Is.S. Gabo, April 3.
J S -S- Innamincka, April 10.
lie st and Cheapest Route to Gold Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, April 3.
BOMB ALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
April 10.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) _
KANOWNA, noon, SATURDAY,
April 17.
BRISBANE 'N
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
April 3.
PEREGRINE. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, April 10.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-BED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.=-H. —S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via. Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE.”
11.900 Tons. B. Coull, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - 10th April
„ „ HOBART - 14th April
” „ MELBOURNE - 19th April
„ „ ~ ADELAIDE - 24th April
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL 1 i £49 10s - £l3 13S ' £is 15S - £l7 17S ‘
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-w'eekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev ;
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO.. Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks. *
effected oil all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
ft
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.


I Sauce
Ħ
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
jJsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Creates a beautiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
Penetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
skin, fills out the lines and hollows and
restores its youthful appearance.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, or
from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old Bond
Street, London, England.
GREAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING TO TRY.
To any person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known British Towns , and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £8 Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch, stamped fully jewelled, as a FREE
Gift. (Silver Watches are presented to Gents )
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, together
with stamped addressed envelope for reply to
FELLOWS & CO., 10 Crosvenor Buildings, Steel-
house Lane, Birmingham, England. The winner
is required to purchase a Chain from us to wear
with Watch. The name of this paper must be
mentioned. Prize-winners of last competition
were : Miss S. Stubing, Yabmana, Franklin
Harbour, Cornell, S. Australia ; Mr. W. J. C
Witmitz, View Farm, Robe, S. Australia
KN
kjngS
NORTON
cartridges
Patriotism should be practical, not mere
talk. When Minature Range Shooting
always make a point of using "King’s
Norton” Cartridges—they are British
made. Obtainable in .22 calibre from all
Ammunition Stores.
Agents
Colonial Ammunition Co.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
o*/riSH
(U /vj /kd£
G. & G.J4
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St, Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
LADIES’ COSTUMES.
David B rah am & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
94 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
TUESDAY, APRIL 6, to WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14
The Largest Show in Australasia.
7000 ENTRIES 7000
GRAND JUMPING CONTESTS.
SPLENDID TROTTING EVENTS.
1100 Horses —Spectacular Parades —1000 Cattle.
MACHINERY IN MOTION. MANUFACTURES.
EXCURSION FARES FROM ALL PARTS.
ADMISSION—ONE SHILLING.
CHILDREN, HALF PRICE.
3 Castlereagii Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Price 10/0,
Post Free
Anywhere in
Australasia.
A SPLENDID RAZOR FOR 1016
THE PLUM.
The highest perfection ever reached in good Razors. Its pure Silver
Steel Blade lasts half a lifetime, giving quick, easy shave whenever
required. Guaranteed and kept in order free of charge for two years.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case2l/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig- & Aitken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
’ Established 25 Years.
hum,, imur MMili% ,. ~
H
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
1 nil post free
Iv/ U to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Monev Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
L Mention tiie bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Ĥ
“AT YOUR
SERVICE.’’
Cinematographs and Films at
JERDAN’S.
If you want to buy or hire Cinematographs,
or any parts or accessories, you’ll find here
everything you want. We have over a quarter
of a million feet of films, all good subjects.
WE MAKE SPECIAL FILMS TO ORDER.
We shine in Cinematography.
We clo everything in this line.
We give Entertainments anywhere, in
Homes, Halls, etc.
We can show you how to make big money
as a showman.
Call in and see us, we will show you our
apparatus, and give you all particulars.
JERDAN’S
(formerly Osborn &. Jerdan
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
LAUGHTER IS BETTER
THAN MEDICINE.
FUNNY STORIES.—NOS. 1 & 3 COMBINED.
A good hearty laugh will do you more good than any
doctor’s prescription. Here we offer you 100 and more
good laughs in the shape of Funny Stories, Jokelets,
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Ħ
Funny Stories.
Jokes.
Humorous REctTArioNs
SC RE A’«IN i MONOlfl eU E s
H
•uktou*««'t LL'AN A CO. eouiHttr^
Conundrums, by all the popu-
lar favorites including- Harry
Phydora, Will Whitburn,
Fred Graham, Bert Bailey,
Little Tich, James Beil,
Charles Sweet, etc.; laugh-
able Irish stories, funny Jew
yarns, sweetheart jokes, toasts
for all sorts of occasions,
comic recitations, negro
stories, comic doctor’s pre-
scriptions, funeral stories,
school yarns, lawyer yarns,
after-dinner speeches,' end-
man’s jokes—Bo pages just
crammed with good things.
For a small price you can ob-
tain enough material to amuse
yourself and friends for many
an evening*; if you want to put on a minstrel or vaude-
ville show you will find here an abundance of g*ood
material. All the stories and jokes are sure fire hits. Thev
have all been tried and proved by leading* performers at
the various theatres. You cannot afford to be without
tms book. Don't forget the titIe—FUNNY STORIES
Nos. 1 <fc 3 COMBINED. Every bookseller and newsagent
in Australia has it in stock. If yours has sold out send us
Is. 2d. in stamps, when we will post the book direct to you.
ALLAN & CO., 276-278 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
To Users of Acetylene
Ĥ
Ħ
Gas
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN C&b CO. LtdU
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
H
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs : it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Ĥ
CfIKT & RmoMAllt
PILLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE I
l fOR COUt and ji
RHEUMATISM#
EM
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
BLAIR'S GOUT and
Rheumatic pills elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
Wtereforft PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at 1/1# and 2/9.
BLAIR'S HAVE STOOD
THE TEST OF TIME.
PIN/L
Ħ
H
It acts like a ehapm In
DIARRHEA.
'4 OE7
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, «& ASTHMA
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy. ' *
Sold by Chemists all ovir ihe world, in bottles l\d*2 oz 2s 9f7
WARNING.
4 oz., 4s. 6d. each .
. , Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN'S CHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, m 1844, has the ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation
Agents: Rockb, Tompsitt & Co.. Melbourne Sole Proprietors: Fkbeman’s Culokodvne, Ltd., London, S.E., England. *


IN BAN ANA LAND
The South Sea Tide.
[For The Bulletin.]
THERE’S a tide that swings from the island
seas and round by the mainland bights,
A-down the shoals of the Barrier Reef, and
under the limestone heights ;
It surges in at the roaring straits and sucks at the
■?' mangrove tree,
And swirls around by the weedy capes, and the
gulfs of the Coral Sea.
Where many an island lies, low down, with palms
on the sky-line strung,
It winds its way like a great green snake, and
licks like a long, lithe tongue ;
A sinuous restless monster this, that out of the
ocean glides,
And frets the rocks that impede its path and
stem the drag of its tides.
As North it trends to the Mongol shores, and
swerves from the flowery isles,
The great green serpent splits in twain and draws
' through the long defiles,
Chafing the buttressed sandstone bluffs and
beating up to the bays,
Where the flotsam comes to the shore again, and
the gulf-weed swings and sways.
And round and out where the combers climb, and
the white sea-horses lift—
Out and far from the East trade routes, where
derelict sea-tubs drift—
Till it comes to the great dead Desert Sea, the
ocean that knows no shore,
Where the drowsy monster swallows the snake,
and turns to his sleep once more.
For the huge Leviathan Sea lies deep, and slug-
gish on all his sides ;
Immense, inert, he lolls in his bed, and smothers
the roving tides;
Storms may ruffle his broad, green back, but his
bulk is vast and deep ;
He is barren down to his plumbless bed, and he
lies in an age-long sleep.
Yet ever the currents molest his peace, to the
sway of the tidal law,
And ever the sinuous snake glides in and dies in
the monster’s maw—
The sinuous snake that sweeps the bays, and sucks
at the mangrove tree,
And winds around by the limestone reefs, to die in
the Desert Sea.
C. G. A. COLLES.
On the Coast.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Mary Ann rolled down past the
Barrier Reef like a drunken porpoise. The
sea seethed like a gigantic washing day.
Passengers formed into cliques even in the demo-
cratic steerage. At sea one must do something to
break the monotony.
The leader of our band was one Andy Jones.
Now Andy was a carpenter, and by his own
report one of the cleverest tradesmen extant.
Billy Smith, a Groper, balanced his 14 stone on
a barrel and spoke disrespectfully of the steerage
cook. He was very much interested in food.
Some of us were not.
“Tell you what,” said Andy when he left the
question of the cook and started to brag of his
skill as an artisan, “lock up any of your boxes,
and I’ll tell you what’s inside, and "you’ll never
know they’ve been touched.” We argued the
point.
“What about Preston’s trunk?” one of the
gang hinted.
It seemed an inspiration. It was this way.
Mr. Henry Preston—he was a superior person—
had a trunk that assumed an importance out of
all proportion to its appearance. It was a Sara-
toga trunk with wooden bands and a curved lid,
fastened with three locks, yellow where the
paint was left, and as old-fashioned as if it had
■ been built in tlie year one.
“ It’s been in tiie family so long,” Mr. Preston
said, “it has associations.”
“You see,” continued Mr. Preston fixing his
gaze on Miss Jenkins, a fat, pretty girl, “ I keep
a number of family relics. Some have been in
our family for 150 years, and are very valuable.
There is an ivory idol brought by my greatgrand-
father from India—he was a Colonel—worth £lOO,
and other valuable Asiatic curios. They are not
made nowadays. It is a lost art. My grand-
father’s gold repeater is a beautiful thing. I was
offered £2OO for it in London. But these things
are priceless to me, for I keep up the old English
family sentiment.”
It got us down. We began to carry his trunk-
on the brain. Even when one of us strolled with
Miss Jenkins along the moonlit deck, or sat with
her in a quiet spot to look at the Southern Cross,
that cursed trunk kept bobbing up and spoiling
our romance.
Mr. Preston was not popular in the steerage.
“ Wouldn’t it be a lark to find out what’s in
that box ! ”
“I’m the man to do it,” said the confident car-
penter.
That night when the sea had gone down, and
Mr. Preston dreamed of ivory elephants, four con-
spirators dropped down the gangway and cap-
tured the trunk. Andy Jones got busy. We
were amazed at the technicalities of his trade.
He took out the nails at the bottom, unscrewed
the strengtheners, did wonders with that trunk.
It was a breathless moment when he took the
bottom clean off, and the mystery of the Saratoga
trunk lay open for vulgar inspection.
“What’s there?” we whispered, husky with
excitement. It might have been a mummy, a cwt.
of opium, or bags of jewels, we were all so over-
wrought.
“ Holy smoke ! ” exclaimed Andy, “only an old
waistcoat.”
We sat round that box like crows round a dead
horse. There were no idols from India, no rare
curios, no ivory, no jewels, no gold repeater—
nothing except a shabby waistcoat.
We came to the conclusion that Mr. Preston
was a dirty low schemer who had nefarious
designs on MisS Jenkins.
“Stuff it back, boys,’’said Andy. “We’ll give
him nothing.”
Andy threw in the waistcoat, fastened and
nailed up the bottom of the trunk, and put it back
intact in its place.
Andy was almost as clever a carpenter as he
reckoned he was.
Our clique thought hard that night.
* * * *
It was the day before the Mary Ann reached
Brisbane.
Captain Robertson was a genial old dog. Billy
Smith, our spokesman, had told the tale. The
captain thought the scheme needed elaboration.
He joined us.
In the afternoon the baggage was brought out
of the hold. There were boxes, bags, bundles,
wooden trunks, leather trunks, tin trunks, Glad-
stone bags, carpet bags, barrels, blankets, cages,
every kind of receptacle that could hold goods,
from a digger’s spotted handkerchief to a furniture
case built on the lines of a large tank.
But Mr. Preston’s Saratoga trunk was missing.
Mr. Preston’s consternation was tragic and
gigantic.
“Are you sure it’s lost?” he asked stewards,
sailors and passengers.
Billy Smith suggested that it had been blown
overboard.
“It’s not the intrinsic value, though that is
more than £800,” lie explained to Miss Jenkins
when she sympathised with him in his great loss,
“ but the loss of our historic family relics that dis-
tresses me.”
Jones and Smith advised him to' sue the
company.
The old red-faced captain came down to the
steerage. Mr. Preston told the awful story.
“Gives the ship a bad name,” the captain
growled. “ What’s the trunk worth ? ”
Mr. Preston calculated. “Well, you see, cap-
tain, the gold repeater is worth at least £2OO. I
had an ivory idol ”
EXCEPTIONALLY FORTHNATE.
IST SPORT: “I heard you had a streak of luck to-day.”
2ND DO. : "My word! I should say so! I’ve won back nearly half what I lost last week!”
“ What did you say was the total value ? ”
“ Without counting the family relics, which are
priceless to me, I think £BOO is a very low figure.”
“You have the law on your side, Mr. Preston,
but I hope you will not be too hard on the com-
pany.”
This was meat and drink to Billy Smith and all
our clique.
Mr. Preston could not accept less. He grew
eloquent over his lost treasures, and at last the
captain, in an earnest, spluttering voice said :
“On this condition—that you say nothing about
it if the trunk is not restored—we will pay the
compensation.”
Mr. Preston promised that he would never
mention the subject. He gave his word as a
gentleman.
That night before the landing Mr. Henry Pres-
ton was particularly pleased with himself. So
were Andy Jones, Billy Smith and the other con-
spirators, who were all sitting on a Saratoga
trunk in the cabin, bursting with bottled beer and
suppressed hilarity.
We had a busy day landing, greeting friends
and relatives, saying good-bye, and struggling
with baggage.
The captain requested Mr. Preston to remain
behind to see if his valuable trunk had not been
taken by mistake by some other passenger. Mr.
Preston didn’t make a close examination. It was
not polite.
When thetnajority of the passengers had left the
ship,: the captain approached Mr. Preston and
was about to hand him a cheque for £BOO when
Andy Jones and Billy Smith rushed along the
deck shouting together, “Captain, there’s a big
wooden box down below. It might be Mr.
Preston’s.”
“I don’t think so,” said Mr. Preston; “we
have looked everywhere.”
“Fetch it up,” replied the captain.
We returned with the Saratoga trunk.
“Is that yours, Mr. Preston?”
Mr. Preston admitted the fact without en-
thusiasm. The captain shook him warmly by the
hand, crushing the cheque against his palm. “ I
congratulate you. There are some things money
can’t replace. This is no good,” he added, tear-
ing up the cheque and letting pieces of paper
flutter round Mr. Preston,
Miss Jenkins gushed, “I’m so glad, so glad,”
when she heard the good news.
As Mr. Preston sat down on the trunk, some-
what overpowered with his good fortune,
solemnly, one by one, Andy Jones, Billy Smith,
and half-a-dozen others who were let into the
secret, came up and shook his hand, and told him
how pleased they were that he hadn’t lost the
family relics.
But there are times when joy approaches so
closely to pain that only the initiated can feel the
difference.
And when a Customs officer, who had been let
into the secret, demanded duty on £BOO worth of
curios, in default of which he would open the
Saratoga trunk and value its contents, Mr. Henry
Preston realised the fact.
LOUIS ESSON.
“Boro-Belle”: Be “ Edyson’s ” par
(B. 25/2/’O9) touching the Australian bush-resi-
dents’ mania for meeting the coach or the train.
This hunger for scenes of throbbing life is not
peculiar to back-o’-beyond. It is to be found
equally in small Queensland coastal towns, all of
whose inhabitants turn out regularly to “see the
boat come in.” Bowen and Cooktown run a close
finish for first honors in this respect. At both
places the steamers are no sooner alongside than
the young local bloods of the male sex swarm
aboard and monopolise the deck chairs, while
their sisters make for the saloon piano, and furi-
ously bash the same. The older folk are the
last to scale the gangway ; likewise they are the
last to descend it on the shoreward trip. This
programme is gone through twice a week, and
Bowenites are looking hopefully forward to the
time when the line to Proserpine will have been
completed, and the sugar boats will provide
another cheap and popular entertainment.
Another Bananaland inventor has bobbed
up in Maryborough. A comp, named Payne has
applied for a patent for a new style of pneumatic
tyre, for cycles and motor-cars, which is calcu-
lated to considerably reduce the chances of
puncture. The design consists of three inner
tubes instead of one, or one inner tube with
longitudinal divisions, each of which will have a
valve, and the three valves will lie alongside one
another. When a puncture has caused one tube
to become flat, more air can be pumped into the
others, thus enabling the rider to continue his
headlong journey and leave the patching job for
later on. The inventor apparently only allows
for two punctures; should the cyclist incur a
third one, he immediately becomes disqualified.
Things are looking up somewhat at Sap-
phiretown, but they can look a lot higher
before they can be reckoned good. The other day
a face of sapphire wash, 9ft. thick, and carrying
payable gems from top to bottom, was struck.
This is the largest body of payable wash yet dis-
covered on the field. Two diamonds, one weigh-
ing about a carat, have been found in the same
claim. The trouble is the marketing. Sometime
ago the Government made an arrangement with
the Hi raphes—the metal people—to handle the
gems ; but that didn’t get over the trouble. The
diggers still speak scornfully of the prices they
get, while the Hirsches allege that the prices
are so good that they make absolutely nothing
out of the business. Apparently the trouble is
that the public has to support about 93 jewellers’
shops where one would do, and keep 92 magnifi-
cent but unnecessary plate-glass windows insured,
and provide 92 unnecessary landlords with their
weekly rent. And the 92 unnecessary landlords,
and the 92 unnecessary plate-glass windows, and
the cost of the 92 unnecessary brooms that are
worn out sweeping away the dust from the
unnecessary 92 doorways, mean dear sapphires
and emeralds for the public, and next door to star-
vation for the men who go out to the Never
Never to gouge them.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP-
Brisbane, March 27,1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The vice-regal people made their first official
appearance since their return from Gabbinbar on
Tuesday evening, when the lady, of the pair
handed out a big pile of parchments to many
white-clad students, draping her dignity in a
much be spangled black robe the while. This
took place in the South-side Technical College,
and as the local folk take their college seriously,
there was a regular bang-tail muster for the occa-
sion. Unfortunately, the incandescent burners
went out, and the guests of honor found them-
selves ushered into an inky blackness, and had to
grope their way up the passage, stumbling over
chairs and citizens en route. And when the gas
got over its temper the effect was quite spoiled.
Some people fancied that the radiance of our
Governor’s new and improved job as Excellency
of the Ma State might have made gas superfluous •
but it didn’t.
“ Henley-on-the-Brisbane,” which was inaugu-
rated on Saturday last, provided the public with
a fine array of burnt noses, a great appetite for
soothing creams, and something like £OOO for the
hospitals. The perspiring lion. sec. (Harris) told
me that he nearly had nightmare before he got the
thing going. But, anyhow, it did get a move on,
and the way the public backed up the venture
was nothing short of reckless. The scene was a
picture, and, like all good things, should incite
the committee to even greater deeds next time.
There were hundreds of sailing craft, many
motors, and a horde or myriad of gaily-decked
canoes that filled up quite a big stretch of river.
The yachts might have been more numerous and
less gaudy; still the affair, as a first attempt, was
a credit. And the Chinese junk, an outburst
perpetrated by the naval lads, made amends for
any shortcomings in the way of invention. It was
a treat, with its blood-soaked sails and its ’orrid
corpse dangling from what on any known
variety of vessel would have been its yardarm.
It fired a complimentary salute in honor of
Mayoress Wilson, who, with a party, held high
revel upon the Emu. In the evening,
the lighting of many Chow lanterns was a
finishing touch. There was an attendance
of something like 20,000 persons, and, with
one notable exception, everyone lent a hand
to swell the receipts for the hard-pushed hospital.
The said blot on the scene was the action of
the Humpybong Steamship Co., which not only
refused any subscription to the funds, but took
advantage of the.occasion to run a cheap excursion
on its own account.
Une of Brisbane’s most popular girls, Lucy Goggs,
stood up at St. Colomb’s Church, Hawthorn,
Melbourne, on Thursday last, to say “I will” to
Mr. Stanley H. Chapman, of this city. The vows
were said by the lady in a confection of white satin
charmeuse, and a big white hat, arranged with
plumes. Afterwards she left for the land of honey
and roses in a blue gown braided with black, and
another hat of generous proportions with a fowl
in it.
The De Burgh Persses, who have been on a
southern holiday, returned home this week, just
in time to cool down before the wedding of son
“ Burgo ” on April 21.
The serious illness of the P.M.0., Dr. “Jock”
Thomson, has cast quite a gloom over the city,
where the old man has many friends. It is said
that the trouble is nervous breakdown.
Another good man upon the sick list is architect
Robin Dods, who, with his wife, departs for
Ed. Vll.’s capital by the next Orient boat.
Your Mario is rusticating in the country.
It’s a great place this blue-grass patch of the
Logan and Albert, under the blue hills, and the
choicest butter and the finest corn in the country-
side comes from the farms dotted round about.
Then it’s a birds’ paradise, and the fowl of the
air wake.me up every morning, and their carol is
isuch as to make one young again. The air makes
’people lazy, too, if they weren’t born that way,
which they generally were.
Gayndah, a very aged and somewhat decayed
township on the Burnett, is to have an interesting
wedding of the golden order one day this week,
when old John Connelly and his diminutive
Missus will be the guests of the town at a general
junketing. The old man, in spite of his 90-odd years,
takes a little gentle exercise daily—that is, he cuts
up the family fuel, walks a mile or so, or spends
a day on the local Bench. Mrs. C. has been a
universal mother to the whole town for nearly
half a century, and their family numbers some-
thing near a baker’s dozen. It was one of the
Connelly clan who was instrumental in capturing
the suspected perpetrator of the Gayndah bank
tragedy.
Once in a while one hears of gratitude—a
strange and lovely remembrance of favors re-
ceived. A specimen of it cropped up recently.
An old man broke his leg near a wayside dwelling
at Boulia, somewhere back in the early ’6o’s, and
was tended in true bush fashion by a casual cattle
man. Finally he was right enough to move on,
and the break, thanks to the bush doctor’s skill,
made a good mend. He departed with thanks,
and his friend-in-need promptly forgot all about
him. Not so the convalescent, who registered a
vow to repay. Years passed, and the bushman
grew old and poor, and at last things came to a
dead end, and he took his place in the ranks of
the Government reliefers. It was a bitter day, and
after a week of it he was about full up. One day
recently he received a notification to the effect that
his broken-legged friend had passed in his checks,
leaving him his savings. Not a fortune exactly,
but enough to let him drop out of the relief ranks
and smoke a generous pipe in peace for the re-
mainder of his days.
Word came down last week that Fred Jones,
Queensland’s Trade Commissioner in China and
thereabouts, had died at Shanghai. Right to the
end of his days he was in hot water : almost the
last batch of people who came down from the
Hoang-ho told, with delight, how Jones had just
broken up a Consular Court by wanting to fight a
lawyer who, he thought, had cast base reflections
his way. But, though liable to explode at any
moment, he was a whole-hearted democrat and a
fervid White Australian, and Brisbane often
recognised his “fist” and his pen-name in The
Bulletin.
Pretty Stephanie Woodward, a Toowoomba
belle, has announced her engagement to Solicitor
Ure, of Brisbane. The young man is blessed with
three sisters, of whom two are doctors and one a
nurse, so the bride-elect should have her health
well looked after.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


THE GOLDEN FLEECE IN QUEENSLAND.
Evolution of the value of the wool export since
Queensland’s separation from. N.S. W. : —
Year. Quantity. Value.
1860 ... 5,007,1671 b. £441188
1907 ... 81,582,6161 b. £4,133,130
Some specially good export years :—
Year. lb. Value.
1891 ... 80,992,900 £3,453,548
1892 ... 105,033,063 £4,255,939*
1893 ... 90,289,923 £3,572,917
1896 ... 88,492,234 £2,976,984
1898 ... 86,589,084 £3,009,462
1907 ... 81,582,616 £4,133,130*
*Note that the higher price of wool in 1907 brings
the value of the export almost up to the great year
1892.
Total value of wool exported by Queensland, from
1860 to 1907 .
£74,947,788 approximately.
And the sheep have hardly nibbled the margins
of Queensland’s great pastures as yet.
IN 1907 THERE WAS TAKEN UP FOR
PASTORAL SETTLEMENT IN QUEENS-
LAND AN AREA LARGER THAN THE
AREA OF SER VIA, DENMARK, OR
BELGIUM, AND SWITZERLAND, AND
NEARLY AS LARGE AS THAT OF
GREECE.
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XIII.
THE GOLDEN FLEECE.
By J. D. FITZGERALD.
Thk splendid pioneering referred to in my last
paved the way for the flocks and herds which have
given fat increase to the wealth of the Great
Northern State. Once the traditional fear of the
unknown was broken through, the tiny flocks—
pioneers themselves of the great flocks of to-day
—began their placid lives on the fat pastures of
Queensland. The great natural law of Increase
began to forge the wealth of the State, and the
first of the great flock masters began the task
of selection which, though it has not stopped yet,
has given Australia the finest wool-producing
sheep in the world. The merino-Lineoln and the
merino-Leicester crosses have given us the mag-
nificent fleeces which make Australian wool cele-
brated in all the looms of the world ; fleeces which
SOME OF THE MACHINERY AT WESTBOURNE WOOL SCOUR.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
attract woolbuyers from every nation, until the
Exchange in Sydney is an approximation of
the Tower of Babel, from the confusion of foreign
tongues in which its business is conducted.
If we trace the commercial history of Britain
we will find that her greatness depended for many
centuries upon the sheep, and this was so recog-
nised that laws against the exportation of sheep
were made and enforced by several of the greatest
and most far-seeing monarchs. Friedrich List,
the famous German Protectionist writer, whose
policy (translated into action by Bismarck) has
made Germany the great manufacturing country
she is to-day, wrote : “ The source and origin of
England s industrial and commercial greatness
must be traced mainly to the breeding of sheep
and to the woollen manufacture.” England was
a great sheep-walk, and the splendid breeds which
we find to-day were evolved there. If a founda-
tion of national wealth may be built upon the
wool trade, Queensland to-day has the fairest
prospects of any country in the world. We have
not to rely merely upon the limited markets of the
Hanse traders, as England had for so many cen-
turies. The nations of the whole world are our
Easterlings, and from every small and large hold-
ing in the huge State, the wool goes to fill the
greedy maws of the world’s weavers, who are
becoming hungrier and hungrier for more. The
manufacture of woollens, too, is growing by leaps
and bounds in Australia under the new tariff
regime. To-day Australians are the greatest
flock-masters in the world. In 1906 we had
83,687,000 sheep, while the latest sheep statistics of
our nearest competitor (the Argentine Republic)
showed 74,379.000, and the vast Russian Empire,
in 1905, 64,697,000. As our manufactures develop,
our home market will grow, and be an additional
security to the settler.
The reason of this marvellous growth of our
flocks is that no country in the world has a
climate, soil, herbage, and grasses more admirably
suited for the development of the wool industry
than Australia, and of all the States none is better
suited than Queensland f or g row i n g the finest
wools. Despite our droughts, and giving in all
that can be urged against the Queensland climate
—if anything, indeed, of real significance can be
urged—the Northern State has still the very best
prospects of any country in the world of develop-
ing that stupendous wealth-producer, the wool
industry. She has immense territories still wait-
ing for the flocks of to-morrow. To the man with
moderate or large capital, wealth lies in sheep and
wool.
Says'Andrew Mansell, of Mount Vernon, Tas-
mania, a noted authority upon wool and sheep :
“ I believe there is no country in the world where
it is so easy and inexpensive to breed sheep as in
Australia. The great enemy is the periodical
drought; but one must bear in mind that in Eng-
land and America food has to be grown in the
summer to feed the live-stock in the winter ; and
in Canada and parts of the United States of
America the sheep have to be housed through the
winter and the roots stored underground. . . .
SHEARING AT JIMBOUR STATION.
The droughts have been beneficial [in keeping
down over-stocking, which encourages parasites]
in this respect in Australia. ... In Argentina, on
the other hand, where parasites are so prolific, the
land has been over-sheeped, and in consequence
there has been a terrible mortality among the
weaners.”
And again, he says : “ One can venture to say
that there is no country in the world that can
compete with its wool for quality and the splendid
way it is put on the market.” This result in Aus-
tralia has come about in a little over 100 years (in
Queensland much less) from the time when, after
strange vicissitudes, the first sheep of the Escurial
or Royal flock—a present from the King of Spain
to the Dutch Government—found themselves
transferred to the ownership of Colonel Gordon
at the Cape of Good Hope, and, he dying by his
own hand, the sheep were disposed of, and 29 of
them were purchased by Captain Waterhouse, of
H.M.S. Reliance. These were of the famous
merino breed ; and, in the hands of Macarthur,
were the first of the flocks whose progeny are
earning millions annually for the pastoralists of
Queensland. The finest English flocks have con-
tributed both rams and ewes to the building up of
our famous staple industry; and besides the rams
°f Saxony, Mecklenburg, of the Royal flocks of
England, Spain, and France, America (Vermont)
BELLEVUE STATION, STANLEY DISTRICT, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
and Maoriland are all represented in the
Queensland breeds, as the enterprising sheep
men sought perfection through long years of
experiment.
The early prospects of sheep in Queensland
were not regarded as favorable in the imperfect
knowledge of those days. James Bonwick. in his
fascinating “Romance of the Wool Trade,” says:
“When the bleaters were brought upon the
Darling Downs, though 2000 ft. above the sea
level, some prophesied the certain failure of the
venture, as wool could never thrive in latitude 27°
to 25°. Later on, when occupation of pastures
drove newcomers right into the tropics, many
were convinced that in a few seasons the fibre
would become hair.” We smile at that alarmist
notion to-day. Through all the changes which
have occurred, social and industrial, the growth
of the wool-producing industry has gone steadily
on—with a few set-backs, some of them serious,
owing to drought. These only served to show the
marvellous recuperative powers of the great State
of Queensland. In spite of the prophecies that
the wool would turn to hair, and the sheep, instead
of being separated from, become blended with, the
goats in that respect, we have the results of to-
day, and the position in which Queensland stands.
Upon this matter the Chief Inspector of Queens-
land Stock, Mr. P. R. Gordon, tells us in the
official “ Year Book ” that—“ In none of the other
States are the sheep so free from disease as in
Queensland. No scab has existed since 1864, and
then only in one or two flocks. Fluke is all but
unknown in the State, and malignant footrot,
WESTBOURNE WOOL SCOUR.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
which existed in a very fevv flocks on the Darling
Downs, was stamped out in 1870.”
The official documents (Report of the Depart-
ment of Lands, 1907, p. 7) tells us the amount of
land which is still unoccupied in Queensland—
viz., 117,358,682 acres ; and the major part of this
may be utilised for pastoral purposes. The in-
crease of Queensland’s flocks during the year 1907
was 1,851,609, the aggregate having sprung from
14,886,438 to 16,738,047, the largest number of
sheep since 1898. It is also to be noted that the
proportion of owners of sheep has also increased,
there being more owners now than there have
been for a decade. Thus 2748 owners were
possessed of these 16,738,047 sheep ; and the dis-
tribution was in this way :
Owners of 50 sheep and under, 608 owned
12,958.
Of 51 to 1000, 957 owned 373,437-
1001 to 5000, 584 owned 1,523,778.
5001 to 20,000, 390 owned 3,911,611.
20,001 upwards, 207 owned 10,916,283.
The statistician does not forget to point out
that, with the increase of owners, small station-
holders, who have from 5031 to 20,000 sheep, hold
3,911,611 head, or 23 per cent, of all the sheep in
the State. Besides the wool exported, the total
number of sheep in the State which were “put to
profit” during 1907 was 1,443,215, distributed in
this way : Preserved, frozen, and boiled down,
255,635; exported (less number imported), 790,622;
killed for food for home consumption, 396,958.
The export of frozen mutton and lamb from Aus-
tralia is now worth a million pounds annually, and
the business is only beginning.
It will thus be seen that the export trade in
frozen mutton is a valuable auxiliary to the wool
industry. It furnishes a way of saving actual loss
in times of threatened drought. In the past, as
Mr. Mansell tells us, “a mutton sheep has been
of little interest to Australians,” because the quest
in the past has been of the Golden Fleece. But
public attention was directed to the wonderful
recovery of Maoriland (when on the brink
of a financial and commercial crisis) through
the development of its frozen mutton trade,
which saved the situation and restored pub-
lic and private confidence and enterprise.
It is practically proved that a breed has been de-
veloped in Queensland which combines the highest
production of both wool and mutton. Mr. Gordon
says of the Queensland flocks : “ About 4 per cent,
of the sheep in Queensland are a coarse-woolled
description, and these consist of only a compara-
tively few of their respective breeds, the remainder
being mostly crosses between the Lincoln and the
merino. These give a lustrous staple of great
length, and a good mutton sheep, ranging from
601 b. to 901 b. weight.” As to the evolution of
the present splendid type of Queensland sheep,
perhaps the greatest wool-producer in the world,
experiments were tried of crossing with the best
of the English and American breeds. Thus the
Leicester, Southdown, Cotswold, Romney Marsh,
and American Vermont merino crosses were all
tried ; but the Lincoln-merino cross has held its
own, and is accepted to-day by the experts as the
fine flower of all the experiments which have been
tried.
The man abroad who desires to enter upon
pastoral pursuits in Queensland will have the en-
couragement which companionship will give him.
Queenslanders themselves are extending the areas
in use for pastoral purposes, and are developing
the wool industry to the utmost of their power.
In this they are assisted by many from 'the other
States of the Commonwealth, who, after “learning
their business” on small areas in Victoria and
N.S. W., and finding that Queensland offers a huge
extent of territory and great freedom in the con-
ditions of land settlement, have gone north and
have entered upon pastoral pursuits. A few
generalisations will show how this development
has progressed in the last recorded year:—
I—The area selected in 1907 was the largest re-
corded, and exceeds by 30 per cent, the former
highest record—that for 1897.
2<—Many areas which were formerly abandoned
(through drought or other causes) have been
re-occupied.
3 The gross area under all forms of pastoral
tenure exceeded by 22,544 square miles the
gross of the previous year.
(In other words a territory as large as Greece
or Switzerland has been settled in Queens-
land in one year, and still there are a
hundred million acres left.)
4 The gross area held in Queensland under de-
pasturing rights, or occupation license, was
369,365 f square miles.
5 The average rent of this vast area (let the in-
tending settler take a careful note of it) is
15/5| PENCE PER SQUARE MILE.
In concluding this article it might be said, by
way of putting forth a claim, that everything
points to the eventual supremacy of Australian
wool in the markets of the world. A few com-
parisons will give a more concrete idea of the
validity of this claim. Says the Commonwealth
Statistician :
“As regards the size of its flocks, the quantity and
quality of wool produced, Australia occupies
the foremost position amongst the sheep-
raising countries of the world.”
Take these comparisons with other countries :
Australia 83,687,655
Argentina 74,379,562
Russian Empire ... 64,097,663
U.S.A. ... ... 50,631,619
United Kingdom ... 29,076,777
Maoriland 20,108,471
British India ... 17,904,748
Value of Australian sheep (1906):
N.S.W £24,273,000
Queensland ... 7,815,000
Victoria 7,116,000
Value of Australian wool output (1906):
TWENTY-THREE MILLIONS STERLING.
The point need not be labored ; but if Queens- 1
land had to depend merely upon her wool industry,
if she had but that single mode of producing
wealth, with the subsidiary industries connected
therewith, her future would secure us one of the
richest communities of the world. But, in addi-
tion, she has agriculture and dairying, sugarcane,
gold and coal, copper, silver, lead, and all the
minerals and gems, and she will in time to come
be one of the greatest producers of coffee, tea,
cotton, tobacco, fibres, and rubber.


Head Encrusted with Humour—
Wore a Cap to Stop Scratching —-
Could not Sleep —Her Sickening
Suffering Lasted Ten Months.
FATHER WRITES OF
CURE BY CUTICURA
“My little girl, aged three, had a
splendid cure by the use of the Cuticura
Remedies. She had a fall from a chair,
three nails penetrating her head. She
was under medical care but the head
became worse until the whole top and
back of it were a mass of scab. The
poor child could not sleep, and we had
to cover her head with a special cap to
? revent her scratching it in her pain.
felt sick at the sight of it until I com-
menced to use Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment after the child had suf-
fered about ten months. From the
moment that Cuticura was used until
she was completely cured her head
progressed, and one tablet of Cuticura
Soap and one box of Cuticura Ointment
cured her. lam extremely sorry that
I did not try Cuticura before, as I am
certain that the pain in her head caused
my child to go cross-eyed. I have
great faith in Cuticura Soap and Oint-
ment. J. H. Phipps, Coventry Rd., Coles-
hill, Warwickshire, Eng., Dec. 15,1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
WIND RASHES
And Irritations of the Skin
Soothed by Cuticura.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap and
gentle applications of Cuticura Oint-
Ĥ
ment, the great Skin
Cure, instantly relieve
•and point to a speedy
, cure of the rashes,
itchings, irritations, in-
flammations, chafings,
lameness and soreness
, incidental to outdoor
exercise. For preserv-
ing, purifying and beau-
tifying the skin, scalp,
hair and hands, for sanative, antiseptic
cleansing, as well as for eczemas, humours,
pimples, blackheads and other torturing,
disfiguring affections of the skin, Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are priceless.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Principal depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns &
Co., Sydney; So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town,
etc.; Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Tokio; U.S.A., Potter
Prug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
THE
MIGNON
PIANO.
The mignon piano
is a delight in hundreds
of Australian homes. There is
no instrument which represents
such splendid value and high-
grade musical qualities as our
MIGNON. We would like you
to inspect one.
Most Moderate Extended
Payments Arranged.
Old Pianos Taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS:
Nicholson & Co, Ltd,,
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY,
BAD NIGHT?
BAD LIVER?
INDIGESTION?
CONSTIPATION?
“LAXATINE,” that most generous purifier of the
I system, provides the REMEDY. Great relief follows,
and the system is drained of its banked-up poisons.
LAXATINE is eaten like a lolly, and is pleasant to take,
LAXATINE is obtainable at all Ohernists; price ts. per
bottle. Insist upon having LAXATINE.
Ħ
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boot,
22/6
Ladies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at 22/6.
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light” is free ou receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEE MING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
PERFECT
FAT
REDUCER
Thousands of fat
women have re-
duced their weight
to normal, and have regained a good
figure. You can do likewise.
“FATCURE”
reduces weight in many cases by over five
pounds a week, and when reduced the
condition does not come on again. The
H cure is permanent and absolutely harmless.
|| No ill after-effects result from the use of
El “Fatcure.” It strengthens the heart
| action, and can be taken with absolute
I secrecy. The fat does not come back.
FREE SAMPLE SENT FOR 2d. STAMP.
9 The method is perfect, the results are
H marvellous, its clientele tremendous. Send
I 2d. stamp for FREE TRIAL SAMPLE,
9 and full particulars. Write or call at once.
THE WATWORTH CO., SUITE J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
[s
[3i
m
m wf
mm
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes &, Son
AND
Gourtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.’’
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
■c
1
N
gIassFLITE
CrOLF’DAUS
ARE NOW
GUARANTEED
FOR 18 HOLES
AGAINST CRACKING.
The guarantee slip will be
found inside every box.
RETAIL PRICE-2/- each ;
or 22/6 doz. B.G.’s Remades,
1/= each. Remaking Balls,
9d. each.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co,
LTD.,
234 Clarence Street, Sydney ;
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne ;
10 M'Henry Street, Adelaide ;
also at
Hobart, Perth, Brisbane.
Pat on- I
A POLICY for
Price, 6d.
the COMMONWEALTH.
The Bulletin Office.
£lOOO
IN PRIZES.
Work of Art,
VALUE
£5OO
FIRST
GREAT
PRIZE,
Work of Art,
VALUE
£5OO
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the
World and £lOO in Cash for ONE
PERSON, or Eight Months for TWO.
Note.— The Committee, having paid full value
for the work of art, is prepared to find a
Purchaser for same at the advertised amount if
the winner so desires, also for the Second and
Third Prizes.
SECOND: Value £lOO.
THIRD: Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours’
Oldest
and Most
Popular
Great Art Union
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals
and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of all
charges. A list of winning numbers will be
posted to any person sending an addressed en-
velope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your local agent, or send Postal Note,
P. 0.0., or Stamps, with exchange added, direct
to the representative, Australian Buildings, 49
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at once for tickets,
and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
ALL DIRECT APPLICATIONS MUST REACH MELBOURNE
BEFORE THE DATE OF DRAWING, 10th MAY, 1909.
Be sure and try your Luck.
Send TO-DAY, before you forget!
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Australian Buildings,
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
k|JUSTARD^
H
Bird’s
Custard With sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
1 ' ■
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history the book is free or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
“ THE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
vJ Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Position, According to the “S. M.
Herald,” and According to Fact.
The letter of Clarence O’Hagan
Writing on the Little Men’s Meeting at Hobart, the
S. M. Heeald (8/3/’o9)—which consistently hollers for
Little Men, Little Measures, Little Progress, Large
Estates, and the perpetuation of Lots of Abuses and
National Curses—says :
“The position is likely to be so serious that the
pressure upon the Federal Government is bound to be
heavy, and the chances are favorable to the final accept-
ance of a bargain. This, briefly, is the State Premiers’
position. They argue they are on a good fighting ground
if they can agree among themselves, and it is now essen-
tial they shall agree. Mr. Kidston has already led the
way by announcing that he is ready to give the Common-
wealth three-eighths instead of the one-fourth provided
under the Braddon clause, but the growing needs and
responsibilities of the States must be admitted. The con-
ference is thus meeting with a new outlook and altered
ideas. At the back of everything is an appeal to the
country, and it behoves the State and Commonwealth
electors thoroughly to understand the position.”
We can all agree to the italicised words ; but there is a
vast difference between saying “Hear, hear!” to the
Heeald and doing our utmost to grip and explain to
others the “ position ” the Herald dare not openly,
honestly, and clearly define. Let me, in few words and
round figures, essay to put the position.
We have had eight years of Federation (thank God 1
Where should we be now under the old regime ?). During
those eight years, in face of insult, hindrance, jealousy,
disparagement and all manner of boorish hostility, the
Commonwealth Government has been HONEST. Printit
big! During those eight years the Commonwealth Par-
liament has been HONORABLE. Print it big ! During
those eight years the Commonwealth financial policy has
been clean, straight, economical and JUST TO ALL.
Print it BIG! During those eight years the Common-
wealth Government has administered its Departments
with a minimum of friction and a maximum
of efficiency. The weak places have been and are
the Defence and the Post Office Departments, and the
reason for their unsatisfactory position lies mainly in the
maintenance of all the worst features which disfigured
the old colonial services. They have never been properly
federalised—unified—standardised—call it what you will.
But that will be changed. However, not to be led off the
track, the eight years of Federation have given Australia
Honest Government, an honorable Legislature, and just
and sound finance—that touchstone of statesmanship.
Above and beyond all shines out that great asset, the
Australian National Sentiment, which is a thing beyond
price.
Now, in creating and developing Australia our states-
men have done a great and notable work. But they
have done more. They have aided the old six “ colonies ”
(as apart from the Commonwealth) in spite of the
miserable, bitter and incapable politicians who have mis-
ruled and misrepresented their respective sections of Aus-
tralia. Honest government, honest finance and honest
intent in the Federal domain have had an uplifting and
cleansing influence even in the Augean stables of the
Bents and Wades and Carrutherses of the old
“colonies.” Certainly they have added astonishingly to
their prosperity. Under the old regime, the total
revenue of the “six colonies’’was about £28,500,000.
To-day, under the auspices of the Commonwealth , the
total revenue of the six States is about £33,000,000.
Trade and manufactures have enormously increased—in
N.S.W. alone the federal tariff has doubled the manu-
factures of Ma (the Telegraph swore Federation meant
ruin, and “grass growing in the streets”), and
threatens to make Sydney the workshop of the Conti-
nent (think of that, Billy Hughes and Willie Kelly,
and ye Foreign Traders !)—while the material wealth of
the country has increased 20 per cent, in eight years !
Not only has the Commonwealth scrupulously kept every
obligation to the States, but in addition has handed
them £7,000,000 it could (and, I say, should) have re-
tained. Out of those £7,000,000 New South Wales has
had nearly £3,000,000. Those seven millions would
have given us quite a decent little modern fleet.
Again, the Commonwealth has not borroived so much as a
penny stamp ! The Federal Parliament is “ run ” for
£lBO,OOO per annum ; the total expenditure of the Com-
monwealth is less than twenty-five shillings per head !
The other side of the picture—or “ position ’’—the side
the S. M. Herald yearns to perpetuate. In 1901 the six
States owed £203,000,000. To-day they owe more than
ln other words, they have borrowed
£40,000,000 in eight years, and Wade, who reckons that
sort of thing statesmanship, has just been refused another
£1,600,000 by the Jews of London. The credit of all the
States is fairly rotten. The credit of the Commonwealth
is possibly unparalleled—because it does not owe any-
thing and does not want to owe anything. The expendi-
ture per head of the spendthrift, cadging, borrowing
State Governments in round pounds and shillings is :
State Expenditure per head.
N.S.W £7 15 0
Victoria 6 5 0
Queensland .. .. 7 6 0
S.A 8 17 0
W. A 13 6 0
Tasmania: 5 0 0
Contrast these figures with the 255. of the Common-
wealth 1 Does anyone really think that Wade is better
fitted to spend £7 15s. for him than is Deakin or Fisher
to spend 255. for him? I know the S. M. Herald thinks
so—or says it thinks so—but that ignorant old party is
non compos mentis on finance. Again, the cost of the
State Governors and tuppenny-ha’penny Parliaments—
the homes of parochialism, tin-pot pomp, hoggish manners
and hidebound ignorance—runs into £350,000 1 Does it
pay Australians better to spend this enormous sum on the
political barnacles of those dreadful “Houses’’ than the
modest £lBO,OOO a year spent on the National Parliament?
If I recollect aright, it was a great pre-Federation argu-
ment that large sums would be saved by pruning
the States’ Parliaments and doing away with the
expensive State Governors! Actually Federation
relieved the States of nearly £5,000,000 annual
expenditure, yet they are now spending £h,500,000
more than in 19001 More “ dog ” in London or
Sydney and Melbourne ; more jobs, billets, trips, excur-
sions, and free feeds among the States Frights crowds
account largely for this swollen expenditure. Yet this is
the crowd the Herald barracks for. To these unspeak-
able persons the Herald asks us to hand over the power
and the glory in preference to the careful, thoughtful,
clean, patriotic Commonwealth Government-—whose only
faults are (1) too great affability, and (2) a hesitancy to
drop the pen and get an axe 1 And Wade is going up and
down the country trying to fool people into the belief
that when John Brown votes as an Australian for sound
finance and good government he is strangling John
Brown the New South Welshman—who, Wade says,
ought to be mad enough and blind enough to vote for
the continuation of all that is anti-national and anti-
cornmonsense 1
Every day of the week almost, thumb-
prints are put to one very practical use in Queens-
land. To prevent Binghi, who gets a job on a
station or elsewhere, being done out of his wages,
the Government department which keeps a
fatherly eye on black brudder sees that a proper
agreement is drawn up between him and his boss.
Then the boss signs the document, whereupon
Binghi dips his thumb into the inkpot and makes
his blot underneath, and usually also makes a tre-
mendous cackle as he does it.
A WITLESS POOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To beggars blind he sang the cloudless sky,
The flowers that flushed in summer splendor nigh,
The meadows green, the sapphire-tinted sea,
The daisies pied that decked the emerald lea—
To beggars blind who heard with vacant mind
He sang—the witless fool!
Another told the deaf of music sweet,
Of linked sounds that hid the pulses beat,
Of melting chords that leave the trembling lyre
And thrill the list’ning soul with heav’nly fire—
To deaf’ned days in sweet harmonious phrase
He sang—the witless fool !
A third there came, who told a servile crowd
Of lands that bear a race of freemen proud,
Of men who died for Faith and Country dear,
And still he sang amid the bondmen’s jeer—
To slavish throngs he piped a freeman’s song—
A Witless Fool was He !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


Amott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES
Ĥ
A Puzzle Pocket Knife
is one of the most useful
novelties obtainable.
Best quality steel blade,
buff horn handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut as
well as to open. Makes
a splendid knife for
general use, also a
superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full direc-
tions, 2/2, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Illus-
trated Catalogue—just
published.
Wholesale and Retail.
The MULTIPLYING and VANISHING BILLIARD BALL TRICK.
UNIQUE BILLIARD BALL.
Ħ
By far the best and most effective billiard
ball trick ever invented. This is a superior
method to any other billiard ball trick ever
yet performed. The pecularity of it is that
the balls can be given for examination as
they are produced, to show they are solid.
The performer having turned up his sleeves
and shown his hands empty, gives a minia-
ture billiard ball, about one inch in diame-
ter, for examination. The audience being
satisfied, he takes it in his left hand and
passing his right hand over it shows two.
Again a mystic pass, and there are three,
which he shows are quite solid. The audi-
ence now see, to their astonishmet, four
balls. These gradually vanish one after the
other, till there is only one left, which is
again passed round for examination. An
adequate description cannot be given of this
most delightful effect. If is one of the
prettiest little sleights seen for a long time.
The billiard ball set is made in '• ivoriue,”
and can be made in any size. The illustra-
tion will give our customers some idea of
the effect that can be obtained with this complete set. The sleeves are turned
back whilst performing this trick the whole time, the hands shown empty, and
at any minute, whilst the trick is being performed, the balls can be passed for
inspection.
This trick requires no sleight of hand, and can be performed by any person.
The balls can be made to multiply or vanish at the will of the operator.
Price (with full instructions), 1/6; or post free anywhere for 2/-
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
m—na—mzzggnr m-mmu ag’jmwtf'fimi»»>...«■>
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
il
“00 0
rr rr
rf r
; rrrr
r r77
"tr
r r r r rr
B ii i
rrrr
rr > r
rrrr
'»i7
EIS
Z! rr nm!. r ''r
rrn
£BB
|oe
Congo
&OOFTJWG
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
pm-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down !
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
.you of it.
We call Congo the “NEVER=LEAK ROOF.” We mean it.
■Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; Ceorge Wilis & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
| Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
/Free
Sample
WRITEToD/ff
p. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Priao Medals^
H
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Works : Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
A Grain Drill
for a
Postage Stamp
has been secured by Mr. L. Harrison, of Pannoomilloo,
Vic., who has won the FIRST PRIZE in our Special Drill Offer,
viz.: an 11, 13, or 15 Coulter, Hoe, or Disc “Deering" or i
" McCormick” Grain and Fertilizer Drill, delivered ABSOLUTELY
FREE to his nearest Railway Station.
Mr. Harrison, who bought his Drill seventeen years ago, sowed with
it 9360 acres.
The remaining prizes of nine of the above Drills at the below prices
were won by the undermentioned farmers: —
2nd, Mr. J. E. Lloyd, of Wagga, N.S.W., £lO 9000 acres.
3rd, Messrs. Anderson Bros., of Pannoomilloo, Vic., £15...7140 „
4th, Mr. G. R. Peters, of Freeling, £2o 6600 „
sth, Mr. J. E. Neldner, of Freeling, S.A., £25 6320 „
6th, Mr. C. Robertson, of Maroona, Vic., £26 6028 ~
7th, Mr. C. Quast, of Rhine Villa, SL<4., £27 6000 „
8 th, Mr. J. J. McNickle, of Wagga, N.S.W., £2B 5858 „
9th, Mr. T. H. Culley, of Aldinga, £29 5668 „
10th, Mr. J. B. E. Wake, of Elbow Hitt) S.A., £3O 5600 „
On the 15th inst. we notified the above winners of their success, and
that we were awaiting their orders re kinds and sizes of Drills, and
shipment of same.
iW The exceptional interest taken by farmers in the above competition
has led to our deciding upon a similar
Special Binder Offer
open to owners of ALL MAKES of Binders, and which is as follows:
To the owners of the 10 Binders having cut the greatest acreage of
crop as reported to us up to June 30th, 1909, and in the order of their
respective acreage so reported.
Ist, A New, Latest Pattern, 6 feet “Deering” or
“McCormick” Reaper and Binder ABSOLUTELY FREE
and FREIGHT PREPAID to Customer’s Railway Station.
2nd, A New Binder for £lO \
3rd,,, „ » ~ £l5 l
4 th, „ „ „ „ £2O \
sth, „ „ „ „ £25
6 th, „ „ „ „ £26'
Delivery Free on
board Trucks
or Steamer at any
city named below.
Terms—Prompt
Cash at time of
shipment.
7th, A New Binder for £27
Bth,,, ~ ~ ~ £2B
9th, „ „ „ „ £29
10th, „ „ „ £3O
In order to protect other correspondents, winners will be required to
reasonably verify their claims re acreage cut.
We will not be liable for errors in distribution of Binders under this offer.
Every farmer who writes us re above will be mailed by July 31st,
1909, a full list of all awards hereunder, giving names and P. O.
addresses of winners.
Should two or more competitors tie for any of above prizes the reply
FIRST RECEIVED by us will win.
Winners can have Binders shipped any time after September 15th
1909.
iW IMPORTANT—When writing us re this subject, cut out this
advertisement, attach it to your letter, and address our Branch House in
the State in which you live.
Nine Farmers are certain to get Brand New, Fully
Guaranteed Binders at previously unheard of prices.
One will get his for a POSTAGE STAMP.
Will it be YOU? B.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 545 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; 17 Bank Street, Adelaide; 75 York Street, Launceston
t (263) ' M
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fe Consumption
OSft who hPI VP tflVpn -fVlic ■* /-*■* ■*-% 3 _ i •j. _ 1 1* -I 1 ■* .
Small Size, 2,6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and bv the Pronrinta..
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable TocX ’
W. a HEARNE,


APRIL Ist.
pOR days past Australia has been re-
echoing the alarm of Britain at finding
herself out-Dreadnoughted by Germany,
while Australian Patriots with large bank-
ing accounts have waved cheques at club
dinners for tens of thousands, and Lord
Mayors have intervened to save Great
Britain. The satire of the position is
keenly shown in this month’s “LONE
HAND.” While Britain’s peril is admitted
Britain can pay! But Australia’s dire
need is far more pressing with her un-
peopled and unguarded North. Nothing
can save us if the Pine Creek-Oodnadatta
line remains unconstructed, as shown by
C. A. Jeffries’ article. And the Australian
patriots with their ten-thousand cheques
neglect this all-important feature of the
situation.
“An Englishman’s Home” is rousing
England’s Jingoes ; but can it be compared
with the “Romance of the White Guard”
in this month’s instalment of “The Com-
monwealth Crisis”? Australia’s peril and
Australia’s saviours are far more vital to
Australians to-day than the political terri-
torial army “recruiting” play of the new
dramatist.
Bob Lowe, the Great Chancellor, is
vitalised in an account of his Australian
career before ascending the English
Woolsack. The story of his fight against
England’s cargoes of convicts makes one
of the most interesting pages in Aus-
tralian History.
Melba’s Memoirs this month read like
a page from “ Evelyn Innes,” and the
dramatic scenes at the Ecole Marchesi are
doubly interesting by the fact that the
Diva is now conducting a triumphal tour
throughout her native land.
And there are other features .... .
Price 11
From all Booksellers
and Newsagents.
Councillor Evans, Mayor of Collingwood
(Vic.), has stated publicly that he will not again
wear the mayoral robes during his term. The
Council has offended the Mayor, and he doffs his
official horse-rug by way of vengeance. But the
winter is approaching, and as influenza was very
prevalent among horses and mayors during the
damp season of ’OB, Councillor Evans may have
to resume his official clo’ in self-defence.
Amusements.
OWN
HALL, S Y
APRIL 5 to 13,
D N E Y,
GRAND
COMMONWEALTH EISTEDDFOD,
and First Annual
AUSTRALIAN CHAMPIONSHIP COMPETITIONS.
The GREATEST MUSICAL and ELOCUTIONARY
COMPETITIVE FESTIVAL EVER HELD
IN AUSTRALIA.
3500 ENTRIES. FOUR SESSIONS DAILY.
Their Excellencies Earl Dudley and Countess Dudley
will perform the Opening-Ceremony on MONDAY NEXT,
APRIL 5, at 8 o’clock p.m.
The Box Plan for Opening Night is now on view at
Paling’s. MILLION PRICES—2s. & Is.; Reserved, 3s.
Official Photographers : Crown Studios.
BLANDFORD WRIGHT, Hon. Secretary.
MELBA,
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR, 1909
(Under direction of John Lemmone).
TASMANIA—ARRIL 2 to APRIL 9,
Commencing at LAUNCESTON, APRIL 5.
NEW ZEALAND-APRIL 12 to MAY 24,
Commencing at INVERCARGILL, April 13.
NEW SOUTH WALES-
Commencing at SYDNEY, JUNE 1.
QUEENSLAND—
Commencing at BRISBANE, JUNE 26.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : .1. C. WILLIAMSON.
THE J. 0. WILLIAMSON
GRAND ANNUAL CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
OPENING NIGHT.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 3.
What a Dreadnought is to Navies
JACK AND JILL
Prices as Usual.
Undoubtedly is to Pantomimes
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Six Nights of THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
TO-NIGHT at 8 O’CLOCK,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as NAPOLEON.
Miss BEATRICE DAY as JOSEPHINE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell & Gunn Season.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynell & John Gunn.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 3,
First Australasian Production of Henry Arthur Jones’s
Masterpiece,
THE HYPOCRITES.
NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO., including
HaRCOURT BEATTY.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Plans at Elvy’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : ALLAN HAMILTON.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 3,
ALLAN HAMILTON’S Dramatic Company.
First Production in Australia of an Entirely New
Sensational Romantic Drama,
QUEEN OE THE NIGHT.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is.
Box Plans Now Open at Elvy’s.
•yHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
yH E GL A CTa rTu M, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
20 T H ANNUAL CARNIVAL
OF
WIDTH BEOS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
OPENING GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY,
Rear St. Barnabas’ Church,
Through the Avenue of Fairy Lights,
SATURDAY, APRIL 3,
IN A VAST CITY OF TENTS.
THE BIGGEST SHOW EVER SEEN IN SYDNEY.
New and Wonderful Attractions, specially engaged by
Mr. Philip Wirth during his recent tour of the world.
FOUR MENAGERIES IN ONE.
Including the £lOOO Live Giraffe, the only one ever seen
ALIVE in Australia.
The Greatest Collection of Wild Animals since the Ark.
WONDROUS SIGHTS.
A GEOGRAPHICAL AND ZOOLOGICAL OCULAR
OBJECT LESSON.
Matinees-WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS
and HOLIDAYS.
PRICES : Reserved Chairs at Paling’s, 4s. ; Back Chairs,
3s. ; American Back Folding Chairs and Carpet Seats, 2s. ;
Gallery, Is. Children Half-price, except Gallery.
DON’T FORGET LOCATION—
GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY,
Rear St. Barnabas’ Church.
SO~ ALL TRAMS PASS THE DOOR.
Amusements
X LYi °P L THEATRE, SYDNEY.
® °.^ t\~ Manager-— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Two real Japanese Exponents ot the Art of JIU-JITSU,
Mr. RYUGORO SHIMA, and Mr. KIYO KAMEDA
Mr- CURL PITT, a Droll Deceptionist.
MISS EVA LEE AND HER TWO PICS.
Mr. G. W. HUNTER and MADAME DESIREE.
MR. TOM WOOTTWELL. THE TW’O BELLS.
The THREE DONNELLEYS. LITTLE BABY WATSON.
The TWO PRICES. Mr. FRANK YORKE.
PRICES 35., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling's.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHUNG LING SOO, Conjurer, Magician.
(Simply Indescribable.)
CISSIE CURLETTE, Quaint Comedy Vocalist.
THE LATONAS, Vaudeville Favorites.
GRAHAM and DENT, in One-Act Comedy, “The
Power of the Idol.”
Plan at Allan’s. iTr£~ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
|L|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
FOR A SHORT SEASON,
FAREWELL APPEARANCES OF
MISS TITTELL BRUNE
IN
THE GIRL of the GOLDEN WEST.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A STIRRING AND GREAT ATTRACTION.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation, in
THE FRENCH SPY.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Fifteenth Week and the End not in sight.
MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
I R T H> S OLYMPIA;
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and. ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THEB 0 E F S I LL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Legal Notice.
o E EDWARD LEWIS, deceased, formerly
JtAj of Cwmbran, Monmouthshire, England.
The Representatives of the above, who died in
December, 1895, in Sydney, are requested to
communicate with HORNBY and BAKER
JONES, Solicitors, Newport, Mon., England.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM SANDISON, formerly on West
Coast of Tasmania, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
D. EMONSON,
Ruby Yale, Anakie, Queensland.
MHO MICHAEL JOSEPH WALSH, formerly
i of Trafalgar, Victoria. If the above will
communicate with E. ROBERT WARREN,
Solicitor, Trafalgar, he will hear of something to
his advantage.
YYT'OULD any person knowing the whereabouts of
ALBERT (JACK) BOURCHIER (left Gerelderlie
for Narrandera Canal Works about September) kindly
show this ad. or communicate with
MRS. ALDRIDGE,
Seymour Street, Traralgon, Gippsland, Victoria.
H
SMOKE
E.F.L.
PIPES.
From 2/6 each.
Ail Shapes.
E. F. LIND S CO., 398 George St., Sydney.
THE ,CONJURER’S CASKET
APPARATUS & DIRECTIONS FOR ABOUT
One Dozen Mysterious Tricks
Only 2/6
2S
Enough for an Entire Evening’s
—Entertainment. »■<—,
ANYONE CAN DO THEM
WHEN YOU KNOW HOW
Also Book of 32 Splendid
Tricks, fully illustrated and
explained, with all the “ Patter
Talk ” to introduce the Feats.
Price, only Half-a-Crown, including postage.
ST is great fun mystifying your friends. Get this Conjurer’s Casket
and you will be the cleverest fellow in your district. It contains
the apparatus for about a dozen first-rate tricks, including
Mahomet's Sphere, that, at the word of command, stops in mid*air and
moves as directed ; the Pillars of Solomon, a remarkable illusion by
which a severed string becomes whole; the Magic Pillar, with which
several effective feats can be done; the Magic Coral Beads, strung on a
knotted cord, can be released without untying the knots; the Magjc
Cube can be employed for a number of sensational tricks; the Magic
Wand, the Ring and Wand, the Barber's Pole, the Transforming
Pictures, &c. The Book that accompanies the Casket has a largo
number of illustrations, and not only explains quite clearly and fully how
each trick is done, but it gives all the “Patter Talk" that keeps the
audience amused and helps 60 materially to make the performance a
success. Besides the tricks contained in the Casket, there are about
twenty other feats and illusions fullv explained in the Book, for which
you can easily make or procure tne necessary apparatus. This is a
great bargain at Half-a-Crown (we pay the postage), and, to
secure new customers, we will GIVE with each of the first hundred
orders for these Caskets the Magic Jacket B_Pok n
i be d(
> M a&iC-Eacj.
of the Book), with which many mystifying tricks
The Union Manufacturing and Agono;
~299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE,.


EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
ate noted lor their Purity and
Excellence. ■,
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A /Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WHITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney
Ĥ
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.”
— Lancet.
H
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers , Stores, etc.
m
XC
Vl^rs..
m
e
v.
mi §
m?
■n
S
W,
i
mm
A#
<@»
w
fS
-I
E
You see himmong the barrel ofa
WINCHESTEk
22 AUTOMATIC RIFLE
HE’S YOURS!
This handy little ten-
shot rifle repeats itself,
the recoil being utilized
to do the reloading.
The novelty of its oper-
ation affords possibili-
ties for practice and
pleasure which no other
“twenty-two” does. Look
one over. §> §> &
Sold by Dealers Everywhere.
*MORRISS*
IMPERIAL
m
OlHTMEHt
CURES
THE BALLET GIRL
Ĥ
Ħ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lieti of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G.P.0.. SYDNEY .
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MOTiTIIY TO TiTIWTI ° n Security or Freehold or Leasehold
AAt.? XVIUWX.I JjXj.LV U Cjty or Suburban properties, or on
Freehoid and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, Or on the Security
ot Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. It. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
ttt, t' a ' rfax ’ General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A.. F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
THAT’S ALL
JUST SAY
o
o
and then you will he sure of getting a whisky made from the
purest materials, a whisky best for health and best for pleasure ;
and with a uniformity of flavour, which can only be guar-
anteed in a whisky offered by the proprietors of a distillery
devoting their whole production to their own brand.
The proprietors of the Stromness Distillery,
which is the oldest, farthest north distillery, have
been making 0.0. (Old Orkney) for generation
after generation. 0.0. possesses that delicate
flavour and exquisite aroma so rarely to be found
in whisky; and as they always hold in their own
bonded store a ten years supply, you can always
rely on getting it exactly the same, no matter
in what part of the world you are.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining 0.0. please write direct
to the distillery giving name of your usual store.
J. & J. Me. CONNELL, Ltd., Stromness
Distillery, Orkney, Scotland.
P.C.B.
J
'J
ISHINC
n
I Every
Bbk Requisite
H
Ĥ
TACKLE
Trout
-Terch
fcCOD
/Sea
Bream
WRITEi
g —Price-List - __________
J.ocott. 364BourkeSt, Melbourne
PATERNOSTER’S
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand:
A POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
IkVWAHT FEEQYHG axx( ,
iAo Mother s\\ou\& \>e wWyo\&
\ sent ow request.
$
/!proffsess/ve d/etary adapted to t/>e prow/tp d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food N9|
/k>/7? 6/rf/> to 3mo/?Ms.
Milk Food 1M92
from 3 to 6 mo/?Ms
Malted Food N 93
foo/n 6 /7?o/?Ms upwards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
T
TP
ft*'
$
MEN!
TAKE
I
Tf/'HY don’t you stop it ? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
™ * you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the brealcing-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude-shocks too much, and at best can only bo
applied tor half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. tfo shock, no burning or
blistering 1 , and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit JESOO to anyone proving
the contrary.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAQH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
OFFI3E HOURS: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
JOSEPH It CORCORAM
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name
Address... ..4
...2


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
Sfte LEADING
HOUSE
(Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all r parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
WINCHESTER
Just landed 1906 Model Rifle, Improved; handles -22 short,
long or long Rifle Cartridges, mixed or separately,
POSTAGE—2/3, N.S.W.; 4/2, Inter-State—EXTRA.
£2.
Ħ
Send for Illustrated Sports and
Fishing Catalogues FREE.
[CAN
B
BEAT
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, Sydney, and
Hunter Street 9 Newcastle.
Branches: Church Street, Parramatta; 197 Oxford Street, Sydney;
113 King Street, Newtown; 273 Darling Street, Balmain.
KN
AULD JOCA
WHISRY.
TOOTH & GO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6*d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, ill us., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is.. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
H
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, .FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a Bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 6oth Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION G UARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will he posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is' post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. WOT Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE OOT FROn THIS ADVT.
*
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POST AT, NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the St aye, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dit. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, B<L
Secret History Ooort of Engl and, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works; Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
DelichteulPipes
zv
Jr.
Mark CUARMfI^^
means
SOLD EVERYWHERE
see That you get them
Obtainable fromallTobacconisfs
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
. Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Ĥ
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five VP’rs.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given 2lway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion"
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, JLS.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. F ull Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Ħ
Nikoteen insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSEOTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON,
Proprietor; 39 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by poet.
Is. 4d. ( stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
[ASTHMACURE
GRIAULfS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GHIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
Biitisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
PHr<=> /SH POST FREE, £1 per year,
* in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Bkitish-Austkalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It s the finest shilling 3
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
f
K 9
Q)TB
*
m
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
H
Ĥ
8
uis£
if
s 1S
i
S3i
O
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
c&
TA
0
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and i/n.
THE ACOORDEON for Country Residents.
Ħ
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
i a P ower^u l tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
lp-fold Bellows with steel eorners. Price .£1 7s 6d:
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments
Watches, Jewellery, Etc, 210 Queen St, Brisbane
Q.
li
8
vK
1
a
1
<3
r^j
C*
u
\
r>
FROM
£11.5
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
AicociuC 0 , 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
FROM
Eii.s.
BILLIARDS has
** long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monabch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
ot
MOSQUITOES.
* *
to
v*
0
pt>9
KEEPS THE SKIM
COOL AND
BEFjRESHED
IN
ROT WEATHER,
utd entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- 4 2/6.
Isle Makers: M. 6EEIHAM & SON
Sydnoy; Felton, Orimwade
, C&elten&am, England.
<& Co., ipell»o4irne.
Southerly.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH, North and East from Conran,
The heel of old Cape Howe
Upon his worn foundations
Is planted firmly now.
For loud Antarctic weather
Beats on his seaward gates;
And Wind and Sea together
Race home from Bass’s Straits.
Scared ketches out of Mario,
Drenched by a stinging spray,
Run hard to make their shelter,
Ere night, at Twofold Bay.
The freighted coasters stagger
Half-buried in the boil;
They slow their groaning engines
And lamely south’ard toil.
The liner makes her offing,
And, proud in strong disdain,
Defies the fighting furies
That pound her sides in vain.
Close-reefed, a Glasgow clipper,
Along a path of foam,
With all the gale behind her,
Is racing gaily home.
“ Stand off ! ” the signals order,
“ Stand off ! ” and beat away ;
The bars, with white teeth snarling,
Are growling Death to-day !
On high Shoalhaven forelands,
And down by Wollongong,
The green seas shout and thunder
Their wildest Wagner song.
From Sehank to Port Macquarie
The mad white horses speed,
The coasts are wet with spindrift
From Wilson’s to the Tweed.
The seabird, shoreward driven,
To all the world protests ;
The swans complaining cover
Their fledglings in the nests.
Across the Southern Ocean,
Along the Tasman Sea,
Each lighthouse-keeper holdeth
His charges warily.
Hard mates their decks are pacing,
And anxious skippers dart
Quick glances from the shoreline
Unto the open chart.
One eye upon his compass,
Firm poised on inward heel,
The steersman’s hands of iron
Are clamped about the wheel.
Gaunt bergs and groaning glaciers,
Floe ice and fogs and snows
By red volcanoes lighted,
This howling South Wind knows.
From that lone land untrodden
That rings the mystic Pole,
He comes with strange, wild anger
Within his boreal soul.
He leaves, to mark his going,
Brown weed and kelp uptorn,
And driftwood on the beaches
That front a clearer morn.
And wreckage, slowly rising
And falling in the swell,
To-morrow, at the dawning.
Its own drear tale will tell.
The bruised ships, death-delivered,
Replace their riven spars,
And clean tides freshly enter
Across re-opened bars.
Once more a cloudless, splendid
Blue arch beams overhead,
And all the seas are grateful
The wild South Wind is dead.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
Angels on Horseback.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JERRY MUNN drew his brush dripping
from the pot, and sent a final streak of
pink paint flying along the blistered
weatherboard front of the Farmers’ Arms. Then
again he turned to me.
“Oysters? No, you’re a fact. I don’t keep
no oysters now. Oysters is bad fer the health
and interferes with the peace o’ mind. I got
fried fish, an’ crays, an’ pies, an’ all-pork frank-
furts. But oysters is off.”
Munn took a step backward to regard his brush-
work. Satisfied with the effect of his labors, he
proceeded to the western wall, and went on with
his work, talking the while.
“ I’ve ’ad bad luck with oysters. They got to
come up over an ’undred miles in the train. Then
they go through the beautiful ’ands of Long Bill,
up at the station. Then Igo an’ cart ’em down
to the shop, ’nd by that time they’re feelin’faint
an’ the worse fer wear. They come up frum
Melb’n’ in th’ mornin’, mind yer, an’ nobuddy eats
oysters in Murgobilla till past the witchin’ hour
o’ 10 o’clock at night, an’ by that time, lo ! they
are deceased, an’ the decayed ones loses me cus-
tomers.
“Mind, I don’t say they’re anymore delicate
in health than the crays, on’y the crays, when
they’re past prayin’ fer, takes care to let y’ know
they’re due fer burial. Oysters is different.
Oysters is insidyus ! Oysters. w’ich ’ave crossed
the border take some pickin’ out, an’ they let yer
know their condition by taste ’s much’s smell.
An’ y’ can’t go nibblin’ every oyster that comes
into th’ shop—not if y’ want t’ keep yer trade.
“I don’t say it’s everyone in Murgobilla that
c’n tell a baddy w’en ’e strikes it, or every wild
bush bloke w ich comes in t’ browse on me stews
an fries, either. Some o them thinks it’s a nextra
flavory one w’en ’e gets a noyster fit fer cremation
an’ swallows it an’ preten’s t’ like it, after chewin’’
it —chewin’ it, mind ! —with every one iv ’is large
bush teeth ! ”
Jerry’s brush, tight and slick, padded against
the woodwork with indignant energy.
Jerry Munn, citizen of the world, and two-
years resident of the Goulburn Valley at the
township of Murgobilla, was a man of many parts
His clothing was patched and faded, and acted as
an indicator of his hand-to-mouth condition. He
was wedded to a large, willing wife, who kept the
only fish-and-pie shop in. the Valley, what time
the persevering Jerry went out and did odd jobs
of painting and bill-sticking and general small-
township toil.
Never a travelling company of theatricals but
was catered for by Jerry with his paste-pot and
brush ; and never a little job of plain painting
eluded his active hunt after a crust for the wife
and young Bill.
In addition to his income from these sources,
Jerry now and then turned an easy, pleasant
penny by singing “comic” songs at ban-
quets and similar gatherings. But, with all his
hustling, Jerry stayed in the rut in which he had
pulled up when he first came to Murgobilla and
wedded the beauteous Mary McShane.
He had had a certain amount of bad luck since
his marriage, but was far from blaming the
married state. The shop helped to keep the
home together when the odd-job trade was bad,
and Jerry managed to keep a cheerful face, even
during slack and unprofitable periods.
“I ’aven’t ’ad a noyster up ’ere since las’
December,” he went on, in a moment, his brush
sucking under the outer ledge of the Commercial
Room’s only window. “Not since they nearly
caused me arrest on a charge iv unclecide.
“Yes, me uncle.
“ Yes, ’o was up ’ere then on a visit. ’E used
to be over at Toke, workin’ on a station, an’
thought ’e’d pay me a call on ’is way down t’
Melb’n’.
“’E was worth a good bit o’ stuff, the ole chap
—in talk. People in my family always said ’e’d
pan out well w’en ’e died. Said ’e ’ad as much as
four 'r five ’undred in ’is sock, an’ I was ’is white-
haired precious.
“People always know a lot about other* people’s
hard-earned wealth—l don’t think.
‘‘ ’T any rate, ’e paid me a call, an’, as I ’ad
plenty o’ truck in the ’ouse an’ good credit with
ole Fowler, I asked me good, kind, rich ole uncle
t’ stay over frum Sat’d’y till Mond’y.
“E’ stayed—over Sat’d’y.
“ The oysters’ad come up that mornin’, a nice
lot, guaranteed fresh, jest as usual; so, w’en ’e
arrived, on tea-time, with a large, country appe-
tite ’e’d oughter been ashamed of, I ’ad every-
thin’ under way t’ give ’im the time iv ’is life.
“We ’ad a few trimmin’s t’start with—cray an’
fried fish, an’ a steak. Then I brought on the
extra dish—angels on ’orseback. Silver skewers
was off, so I ’ad to ’ave recourse to fencin’-wire
with filed points, an’ they dooly arrived on th’
table, each li’l’ oyster snug an’ com’f’able in ’is
blanket o’ streaky bacon, an’ pierced through ’is
midst with the wire skewer.
“Uncle partook.
“ Late that night ’e repented bitterly and began
to make ’is bloomin’ wants known unto th’ police
iv th’ neighborhood, and I leapt frum me lowly
couch with haste an’ fear, an’ found me uncle in
th’ last stages iv mal-de-mer ’r its Murgobilla
equivalent.
“ I saw ’e was bad, an’ padded down th’ track
fer Dr. Booker.
“In th’ meantime, me unfort’nate uncle ’ad
raised th’ whole district, bar those too old’r feeble
t’ wa\k, an’ there was a huge crowd o’ more or less
undressed people waitin’ on tli’ road in front o’
the ’ouse w’en I come back with th’ doctor.
“ All th’ Murgobilla police was there, with ’is
notebook in ’is’and, an’ instead o’ takin’ care o’
th’ invalid ’e was lookin’ through th’ medicine-
bottles fer evidence against me fer poisonin’ me
uncle. This was th’ result o’ me uncle’s ear-
burstin’ murmurin’s.
“Dr. Booker examined th’ poor ole man, an’
said ’e was poisoned orright. ’E didn’t say how.
An’ the police tried t’ take ’is dyin’ depositions,
but the ole chap was too pained t’ talk.
“ ’E spent a very unsettled night, an’ th’ police
hovered in the offing until the rosy dawn. In th’
meantime the crowd melted away in its night-
shirt, and once more wooed its interrupted slum-
ber. cackling considerable th’ while.
“ Next morn’ the doctor broke th’ news t’ me-
an’ to th’ neighborhood, though it ain’t in th’
rules o’th’ game—that the oysters was t’ blapie,
and th’ police brought me back me medicine-
bottles.
“ An’ me trade in oysters reeled under a fatal
blow, from w’ich it ain’t recovered.
“’E didn’t stay another night wi’ me. ’E left,
an’ went over to the ’otel—this very pub. ’E
stayed ’ere two days, an’ then ’e started off for
Melb’n’, sayin’ that ’e’d leave th’ settlement ’v ’is
account to me.
“ ’E left with a skinful o’ liquor, an’ on th’ way
down to Melb’n’, ’e passed out!
“ Yeh, threw a seven !
5 11 Through leanin’ outer a door, w’ich was open,
t’look at th’ scenery, an’ bein’ too drunk t’ notice
th fact o th door bein’ ajar. They brought th’
corpse back th same day, an’ carted uncle round
t’ my place.
“I’m still payin’ for ’is fun’ral.
“ Yes, ’e left me ’is fortune.
“’ls fortune was a portmanteau containin’ three
soiled collars, a change ’v underwear, an eighteen-
penny cap, ’n’ a nextra shirt! ”
FRANK HENTY.
A Much Too Previous Posses-
sion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was the Soul factory— souls in the
making—souls in all stages—souls finished
and stacked for delivery, stacked in great
piles on all the floors, with narrow passages
between, and littering up both sides of the stair-
cases, regardless of any inspector under any Act.
Millions of souls, billions, trillions, thousands of
trillions of souls; for these were for the supply of
all the worlds that ever were or are to be.
Big souls, little souls, narrow souls, broad souls,
black souls, white souls and brown. Fierce souls
to fit warriors, humble souls for the genteel poor,
hustling souls for bagmen and dog-fanciers, restful
souls, souls for kings and subjects, superior souls;
superfine, silky, highly-scented souls ; coarse, un-
gainly, fustian or mole souls. Souls to suit all
ages, too, down to whole strings of little white
things done up in dozens, these being the souls
of infants.
The goods slopped over to the very door of the
office, where the Chief Drummer drummed his
fingers on the counter and scanned his sales book.
“Yes,” he said, “I think it might be worth
while. Nothing definite, of course; but as I
passed the place it struck me it might be worth
while. We’ll try with a small assorted parcel
first, and see what comes of it.”
“But where is the place? I can’t find it in
the directory or on the map either ! ” said the clerk
on the other side, who had a celestial atlas spread
out before him,
“Oh, I’ll see to all that. Just give me the
parcel and 111 deliver when convenient.”
(Continued on next page.)


IVER TROUBLE
A
Suffered for 3 Long Years—
Many Treatments Proved Useless,
FOR three long years Mrs. Hambridge, of
“Victoria Villa,” Oberon Street, Randwick,
Sydney, suffered from a disordered liver in the
form of prostrating bilious attacks, headache, and
heartburn. But, after all other treatments utterly failed,
Bile Beans for Biliousness—the world’s greatest specific for
all liver ailments— completely cured Mrs. Hambridge, and
restored her to health and strength. If you suffer from any of
the following symptoms of Liver trouble, it is a sign that YOU,
TOO, need a course of Bile Beans to put you right.
When you wake up in the morning, is your tongue coated
with a thick fur ? Is there a bitter taste in your mouth, and a
feeling of nausea? Do you feel heavy and tired, as if your night’s rest has done you no
good ? Do you have sick headache? Are you jaundiced ? Are you troubled with giddi-
ness, palpitation, pain in the head, or a dull pain in the side? And do you generally feel
out of sorts, and fit for nothing?
Do not allow these “ Disordered Liver ” symptoms to go on until you have become a
chronic subject. A short course of the “ standard remedy ’ Bile Beans will quickly set
your liver right, restore its natural functions, and, incidentally, your failing healt .
In speaking of her cure. Mrs. Hambridge says: “For three years I suffered severely
from Biliousness and Heartburn-the results of a disordered Liver. Almost every day I
would have an attack, the pains in my bead being unbearable. I tried many so-called
remedies for my distressing trouble, but could obtain no relief. Bile Beans -
mended to me by a friend, who spoke most highly of them, and mentioned that they had
cured his wife of Biliousness, so I decided to give them atrial. To my great surprise I
gained relief from the very first dose- So pleased was I with the prospects of being cured
that I continued to take them regularly, and I am very happy to say I was thoroughly
cured of Biliousness, for which I am most grateful.”
The Standard Family Medicine.
Bile Beans are
the only genuine
and reliable
remedy for Bil-
iousness, Head-
ache, Indiges-
tion, Constipa-
tion, Piles, Bad
Blood (Pimples,
etc.), Offensive
Breath, Fulness
Aft e r Meals,
Nausea, Belch-
ing, Dizziness,
Debility, etc. Ob-
tainable from
all Chemists and
Stores at 1/1J and
2/9 per box. (The
2/9 size contains
three times the
Do not gamble with your health by accepting
substitutes. Bile Beans have stood the test of time,
and are the PROVED CURE for all Liver, Stomach,
and Digestive troubles. ONE BEAN—ONE DOSE.
o
« ■
>
i
• *
ims
Beauty’s Favourite o
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
sKin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
For in these times the Farth was not yet named,
or even known, or marked on any map.
* » • *
It was in the calm of a warm, if not sultry,
morning towards the close of the beautiful but
late summer of 11,789,031 8.C., that a solitary
figure might have been seen wandering across the
picturesque valley that is now covered over by the
waters of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
In stature and outward appearance there was
little at first glance to distinguish him from the
ordinary Link—now the Missing Link—of the
period ; but if one looked closer there might be
traced certain peculiarities that seemed to mark
him off from his fellows.
His very way of walking, wrapped up in him-
self and not looking to the right or left for danger
or prey —a behavior most unusual in those times of
encounter —prompted one to doubt his Linkhood
or even his sanity. There was no room in those
days for any abstractions.
When a Link was ill, of course, he would some-
times squat in camp, with his eyes on the ground
for days together till he either got over it or
pegged out. That was different. But here was
an apparently healthy Link buried in moody and
solitary cogitation. What was the meaning of it?
What was the matter with that Link that he was
not Linking ?
Did he know himself what was the matter with
him? If not, why not? On the other hand,
how was he to know? Would we know? What
would be the feelings of any one of us on suddenly
finding himself the only living thing in all the
world that had a soul? What was he to do with
it ? What was a soul ?
How uncomfortable to be the pioneer in any-
thing ! The first arrival in Heaven itself must
have felt de trap till the next came in. How lonely
are the Ezekiels, the Luthers, the Galileos, the
Columbuses, the Darwins, the Bernard Shaws ! It
is not good enough to be the stepping-stones from
which humanity takes long, fresh jumps on to
higher things.
Instinct the Link had known, and Reason he
had developed, but here was something quite dif-
ferent—something tearing him in two, dividing
the animal from the spiritual; and his poor
understanding had to figure it out as best it could
without any aid from anybody, for it was only a
sample parcel and he the sole earthly possessor.
Sufficient for us that he had got it—that this
tailed, hairy figure, moving along.in that valley of
prehistoric scenery, happened to be the very first
living thing here so endowed, and that it meant,
down in the future ages, Sunday-school and choir
practice for you and for me, also Bible class and
picnics.
Once he dropped to it, the singularly gifted one
treasured his possession, and was not without
sympathy and following. Not among the males
would he find these things. The strenuous out-
door life, like lunch bars and poker parties with
us, drove the higher life out of the men, and the
woman has ever been the most spiritual. As
many as 20 or 30 respectable Links of the gentler
sex would follow him about in such a ravishing
manner as only a young curate can have any idea
of. He could get a knot of them together any time,
all doting on him, hanging on his lips and wor-
shipping his every movement.
He was in one of his fits of soulful reverie now,
stalking on, his eyes on the ground, wondering
why he was so unlike his fellows, why he had been
picked out among them all to have a soul, what
part of his body it was in—whether it was brainy
or abdominal, or anything to do with uric acid,
and what was going to be the end of it all —when
he heard the soft pad, pad, pad of footsteps
behind. .
The kangaroo with the long neck —the dmo-
saurus—was following him (it was carnivorous
then), and it was puzzled to know why it had got
such a soft thing on. For the Link didn’t even
trouble to look round. He was accustomed to
hear soft footsteps coming up behind, and took
them for those of some of his faithful followers.
So he only started a remark in the tone of the
young curate who gives out the text, and half-way
through it he ended with a yelp.
The dinosaurus had bitten him in two like a
sausage.
* » * *
By the door at the head of the Golden Stairs St.
Peter’s predecessor sat, where he had sat waiting
long. Business was not nearly so brisk as at the
soul-factory. All did not get here, and the steps
were not over-worn. It was with a feeling of mild
excitement that he at last heard someone stumb-
ling up—laboriously treading, for even gold is
poor walking when the steps are steep.
With the eagerness of all janitors, Peter s pre-
decessor pressed forward to meet the new-comer
ere he reached the top, for credentials were
examined somewhat away from the actual en-
trance to Heaven.
This new one’s credentials were good enough
a soul as pure as driven snowflakes, not a spot,
not a fleck of sin anywhere. The Predecessor
examined it inside and out, back and front, looked
through it at the watermark, pressed it deftly
with his fingers, even tried it with his teeth. It
was no go—as genuine a soul as had ever been
through his hands.
And yet, when he looked somewhatsidelong at
the hesitating creature, tail and all, tnat brought
it, the Predecessor was nonplussed.
“Um ! Do you mind waiting here half a
minute? You can take my chair!
He disappeared, and came back very shortly
with someone else, who eyed the new candidate
very dubiously. Then he turned to the door-
keeper again, and they conferred in undertones
as thev examined the credentials together. Ihe
poor Link, half in and half out of Heaven as it
were, stood shivering in suspense. Sit on a chair,
indeed !—he’d never really sat down in his life,
though he had squatted often enough. He could
hear inside the joyous harp and song, the merry
wing flap, and the festive swish of the waltzing
gowns —for, although Earth had not sent up any
saints as yet, there were other worlds that were
going concerns. , . ,
The two officials nodded and nodded and shook
their heads together, and more than once the
applicant caught them slyly looking him up and
down. One of them, in fact, walked round him
once staring at his tail, and then went to the
desk again. “I don’t • think ! No! No .
“ But how has it happened ? ” “ Goodness me .
“O n-n-n-no, no, no, nunno ! Not for one in-
stant!” “Fur! And a tail? Utterly impos-
sible ! Hold ! I have it! ” And he pressed an
electric bell button in the wall.
Then they both turned to the patient candidate.
It was the Predecessor who spoke.
“ Er —er —there’s been a mistake ! Y see these
things.” He held the soul in his hands and shook
it as he emphasised. “There’s been a batch of
them sent down to your place by mistake, but the
—you take me ?—the order being post-dated a bit
—and then we found things weren’t ready—-you
see it’s a delicate matter, and I don’t know how
it all happened, but they were recalled, and how
the dev —(I beg pardon)—er—this one must have
got dropped—we thought they were all in—the
mistake’s ours, and we are d— (beg pardon) sorry.
It’s the first time such a thing’s happened up
here.”
Then the other took up the running. “Under-
stand !We are not blaming you in the matter.
The record ” (he glanced at the soul) “is a beauti-
ful one.” (He might well say so ; there has not
been one like it since.) “ But, you see, our rules
are absolute ” —he jerked his thumb to a notice
neatly lettered in gold on a black ground, near
the door. “No furs, or tails, or horns,” it said,
plainly enough ; but it might as well have been
early Dutch to the listener. The poor Link could
not read, nor indeed answer a word to all this.
His speech was not their speech, any more than
hen-talk. But he could see that he was being
done—any fool could see that —and he could only
look helplessly from one to the other. He was
very much relieved when another gentleman made
his appearance in answer to the electric bell.
He was of quite a different aspect, dressed in
black, of not unhandsome figure and deportment,
and, what was of still more homely comfort to the
Link, with a tail of considerable length. The
Link was also won by his face, that index to the
mind—his gleaming eyes and unfathomable smile
—one you took to on sight, in a word. With his
arrival, affairs took on a more hospitable aspect.
There was another whispered conference at the
other end of the room. The gentleman in black
did most of the talking this time, and talked in a
gayer and more flesh-and-blood style than the
others used.
“Right as rain ! I tell you ! Only too glad to
get him !An ornament to our place ! Dying for
him ! Can do with him this very night !”
So the three approached the Link. “Er !
this gentleman has provided a way out of the
difficulty, sir, that we thnk will meet your case.
You see the fix we’re in. Our place, unfortunately,
is absolutely barred to you, but our friend here,
who is in a somewhat similar, though different,
line of business, has intimated that he will be
glad to receive you into his establishment. He
promises to make you comfortable. You might
even be happier with him than with us ;he is much
more popular and his company more numerous and
varied. His place is artificially heated throughout, ,
roomy, beautifully paved (best pa,vement in the
universe, they say), roasts provided, smoking
allowed. I think you will like it.” _ '
And all the while the gentleman in black stood
by and smiled a smile with a magnificent set of ;
teeth in it, a smile that would have cajoled a
grindstone off its axle. Of course the poor Link
fell in. He turned to go down the stairs again.
“No, not that way; we’ll take the private
lift!”
* * * *
Inside the companj 7 had waited and waited for
Earth’s first saint. .
The clerk came in gloomily. “ All a mistake . j
Experiment a complete failure ! Quite laughable,
I assure you —more than ten million years too
soon ! Why ! th6y , v© got thcit much of & t&il
yet! ” And he marked off about 18 inches on his
arm.
Gr. BRON.
The Convent Wall.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EACH morn at this pale hour the sun slants
silvern on my wall,
And on the niched, white Saviour there,
its gleaming arrows fall:
And I—lost, sinning—from iny prayers, steal to
the narrow pane,
Only iu one short glimpse to see the Boy go by
again.
His heavy shoes ring on the stones, he mounts
the rugged hill,
Coming with joyous snatch of song, or whistle
sweet and shrill.
His grey eyes, careless, glance along the convent,
grim and bare;
The mountain wind is on his cheek, the sunlight
on his hair.
And he is past—for up the hill his footsteps die
away,
As loud the convent bell clangs forth, to hail the
heavy day.
Who art thou, then? From what full world of
love, and strife, and joy,
Tumult, and toil, and help, and hurt, bring ye
that aspect, Boy ?
And hour by hour I ask my heart (the sin, how
bitter sweet!)
On the high pastures strides he now, the valleys
at his feet ?
Where brooding mighty through the blue, the
great snow mountains shine,
Clambers he there, from crag to crag, to herd the
mountain kine ?
Or whistling through the piney woods, or toiling
at the plough, _ ■
Companioned by what maids or men. Oh, Boy ,
where are they now ?
Is there a maid, free, sunburned, fair, in the warm
valley lands
Whose happy eyes look daily up where the bleak
convent stands,
Because his feet go by the walls to climb the
rocky stairs, .
What time our mournful bell proclaims the bisters
at their prayers ?
Where one among them kneeleth mute—in holy
books they tell
Of Sisters, fiend-ensnared like me, whose feet
tread down to Hell.
Who hear through wasting penances the Adver-
sary’s voice
Bidding, as falls the bitter scourge, his fiendish
hosts rejoice.
Oh ! wretched hours of day, and dark, ye bring
my herdsman there
Sunshine and wind, repose and toil, and sweets of
homely fare.
His eyes, with joyful looks and free, salute the
morning skies, ....... ,
When from my vigils of the night silent and
dazed I rise.
At eve he lingers ’neath the stars, his arm about
her flung—
And I, between these blinding walls, am young,
as he is young !
Young— and the life that will not die, impassioned
throbs in me;
Though prostrate at the Cross I lie, my Lord 1
cannot see!
With fruitless tears I wash His feet. Ah!
faltering from my place
The light within fair human eyes makes dark to
me His face !
MAORILAND.
ALICE A. KENNY.


“Four years ago I had to stop shearing, as I suffered
so with rheumatism, caused by the damp sheep. As the
M
vi
liniments and medicines I tried
did me no good, I thought seri-
ously of going to the hospital,
but was induced to tyy Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. From the first bot-
tle I began to get better. I took
seven bottles in all, and I now am
free from pain, and can eat and
sleep grandly. I feel like a new
man.” A. H. Watson,
Gawler, S. A.
This is one of very many letters testifying to the value of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla in cases of rheumatism. Keep your blood pure by using
ftYF Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. are many
imitations that will do you no good. Get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you Buffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T lien scad for particulars
oiourperfectfitting
Automatic Air cushion appliance
the Best rupture Appliance of the Centupy
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Frei
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St.,Melbourne,Vic
: _U,—— 1
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. 'Cloth binding, posted free, 65..
from The Bulletin Newspaper Go.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
H
Superior to 1
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
Inconvenience
in
48 hours.
€ name i m
Ĥ
Wearne 8 Breakspear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
: r ._:u-r •••%.
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to everv home-
in dining-room, 'sleeping-room, and all places where flies
Ħ
H
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or Injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
bruggists,
Groceis and
Hardware
among wttom are;—
Sydney —Anthony Hordern &sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St. • F. H. Paulding & Co.', O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Go.. 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Col, Barrack St.; Briscoe&Oo. Ltd,
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionef his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing' ■.
Medical .
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/Ij, 2/9 & 4/6
Ĥ
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
m
m
a
THE
HOUSEWIFE’S
FRIEND.
m
MWm
H
ft©
&v
o
"-;:r
THE HOME
The Best Result
MANUF.
BY
am; 1
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
CQLQ RE D y POST CARDS.
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When vou have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you. for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of jewellery which we forward
yo ’^?X Colltmuill £ the sale of our ca r<Es', you can earn a CADY’S
° r WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
gold cased MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RI.FLES of faithful
INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite find choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK
vou can return the cards-if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards m Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
- “ a “e y° u this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and.in
wn iio® slti7el y as re P res ented in our illustrations. SEND
fNU MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
(Es=3
©Q
GOOD LUCK
REGAL POST CARD cCt26Q ; CONFiELLS?,S> ONEY.
eo
m
m
m
n
m
V
£\
m
y*r
h
>
>s\
TOO OLD AT FORTY?
WHY, I'M NOT TOO OLD AT SEVENTY
THANKS TO
Us Pills
P
m
m
. .
mm
AUSTRALIA ADVANCES
and leads the World in Windmill Design,
pfoducirig
The “Steel Wings”
which is as great an advance upon all previous
types as the present-day Railway Train is
upon the old-time Stage Coach.
The reason of its superiority lies in the fact that
the wind wheel has a bearing on each side of it.
This makes it easy running, permits it being
heavily and strongly built, and ensures a far
greater result in water raised or work done..
It is self-regulating in stormy weather, yet
has no complicated gear for the purpose.
. Write to Dept. C,
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY,
for descriptive, illustrated Catalogue.
Do not omit to see the Exhibit at. the Easter Show.
ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
men
A NO
wo men
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders,
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering- from any complaint,
livinjr in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia. for the next" three months (on receipt of an application and
CO CCT five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, over 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. No similar book has ev&r been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address s
DR. MARTIN, M.D., "ouse,- 251 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,


An Easter Oilskin.
Ħ
We don’t want to dampen your
ardor far the outdoor life, but we do
think it wise you should take an
oilskin on that Easter excursion.
Then you will be ready for any kind
of weather.
We stock the Regulation shape
oilskins at 10/6, 12/6, 15/- and 17/6;
and there is the famous “Watershed”
patent at 25/- and 30/-
Send in your order at once, and
have the coat in time. We’ll pay the
carriage, and you only need quote
your height,and easy ehest measure-
ment to ensure a perfect fit.
If you want a pair of Leggings, we
can supply a good-grade Tweed
Wellington for 4/6, with footpiece,
5/6. Full details are given in our
winter catalogue. May we send you
a copy?
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
PETROL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SET
FOR
&
$
s
.
f ‘ %£$ j -
/
V*
SOLE AGENT,
T. K. STEAHES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Water t
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
s><r
H
Rider.
Write foi
“ B”
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
J. Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
A MAN FEELS AWFULLY PLEASED
whtn he finds out what
a good, useful, and
economical engine he
has pure ihased in the
BLACKSTONE
PORTABLE
OIL ENGINE.
OIL AS A DRIVING POWER IS NOW
FIRMLY ESTABLISHED. t
Moffat-Virtne Sheep Shearing Machinery.
AGENTS IN N.S.W. —
Paxman Portable Steam Engines,
Kilgour Acetylene Generators.
SOLE AGENTS—
1
Oil Engine
Agents: mOFFA T-VIRTUE LIMITED,
7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
Ĥ
[ Oil Sheep Dip, General Shearing Supplies.
And at CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE; MARCARET STREET, TOOWOOMBA, Q.
“ Hardwieke,” Yass, New South Wales,
December 18, 1906.
Dear Sirs, —The Blackstone Oil Engine ran
without a hitch, steadily and smoothly,
giving not the least trouble, and would have
done twice the work required. It used very
little oil. lam very much pleased with it.
Yours trulv,
H. CAMPBELL LANGTREE.
Alburv, N.S.W.,
Dear Sirs,—The “ Blacksfcone ” Oil Engine
grave us complete satisfaction. The con-
sumption of oil was extremely light, and we
never had a hitch throughout our shearing'.
Yours faithfully,
COLLINS & MASON.
MERCHANT
Technical Staff.
Ħ
ENGINEERS.
Electrical and Mechanical.
E. S. & A . BANK CHAMBERS:
<
KINDLY ALLOW US TO GIVE YOU QUOTATIONS FOR ANY PLANT YOU MAY REQUIRE.
Jv.
SAW
MILLING MACHINERY.
Agents for Allis Chalmers Co.
pi
Jehnson & Ph
(N.S.WU
GAS
etc.
. V, ,
nite
nti
Brushes, etc.
Ltd.
rga
Maw Omen t
li BROADWAY,
NEW YORK.
H
Ĥ
»
•am
'WM
Air Compressors, Pneumatic
41 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
. '■.
COMPLI
STONE CHANNELING MACH INI
MINING. TUNNELING AND QUARBYI
LANTB.
EGAN STREET,
KALGOORLIE,
Pneumatic Tool Dept.
Imperial Riveters.
Imperial Piston Drills.
Imperial Holders-on., \
Imperial Chipping anti
Caulking Hammers.
Complete Stocks, etc., kept in
Australia.
CHEAP EDITION
♦ M OF
Postage—N.S.W.,
7d.; other-States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
PRICE
Ħ
THE AMERICAN
TOOL WORKS GO- '
GIN CIN nKt 1 ■$■ /ffj
mi% yoox ‘ w
CaKA4«
>•
/
et *>
H. P. GREGORY & GO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney,
have just opened up and invite inspection of
The American Too/ Works Co.’s Lathes,
Milwaukee Universal Milling Machines,
Smith and Mills Shapers, Racial and
Upright Drills, etc.-ail Most Modern
Type of Machine Tools.
Write for illustrations and Prices.
H
is different
from all
others.
LS
It will produce good results where others Have failed.
It requires less care and repairs than any other.
The Card Has proved its great superiority on all ores.
any saving is good enough for some,
We can furnish undeniable proofs.
BUT IS IT GOOD ENOUGH
Send for Bulletin No. 9.
FQR
YOU?
Sole Manufacturers: N. CDTHRIDGE LTD., 265 George Street, Sydney; 456 Collins Street, Melbourne.!
