

* JB| The Whisky for Men of Taste.
G. WATBJNB «S£ GO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Jeffrey Coal
Handling Plants.
See Wild Cat Column.
HOBART.
HfSi
Hadley’s Orient [joteL
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici «& Son, Ld .
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Take it back,
I must have -
TTON’ S
HAMS S
BACON.
Fine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S
RESISTING
INDIGESTION
and all other stomach troubles are generally
caused by lack of Pepsin in the Digestive Organs.
The most stubborn cases of Indigestion, etc., have
been found to yield to treatment by Langebek s
Pepsin Extract.
This preparation is a scientific product, and is
prescribed by medical men throughout the world.
The Medical Press of Europe is unanimous m
asserting Langebek’s to be the best Pepsin
Extract on the market. The British Medical
Journal says: “It possesses a much higher
digesting power than the ordinary form of Pepsin.
Read the numerous doctors’ recommendations
which accompany eaeh bottle.
Obtainable from the Sole Agents (3s. post free.
Commonwealth stamps taken). E. GOMMESER
& Co., De Mestre Place, off 310 George Street,
Sydney, if not ft) be had locally.
cm ,
tu
u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE .
4
\
O'
s
t*
©
A
©
*
A
w
o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
*
MALTHOID ROOFING is the outcome of a quarter of a century’s research
and pi’actical experience. It embodies all the virtues and qualities of
an ideal roofing. It is easy to handle, simple to lay, and absolutely
weatherproof. MALTHOID makes a perfect roof for all classes of buildings.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
“upper waggons.
“uab-making plants
A specialty.
THB CLYDE
engineering
company U D
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY LT D
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
* HE PLANT adopted
by T n E BRITISH
a dmiralty.
§
&
m
MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PL Y MOUTH, 1906,
against all makers .
H E LIDON SPA WAT E R
,r ■»> * ' ’
“It is a dream of the Physician realised/' so says a medical man
of Helidon Spa* HELIDON SPA is Nature's Eliminant*
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vob 30. — ; N°. 1646.1
[Thursday, September 30, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS FOR BUSINESS MEN.
Bottom ley : Successful Salesmanship.—
A book for all engaged in business, 4s, postage 6d.
Cody : Success in Letter Writing Deals with
the Essentials of Success, Forms and Customs, Proper
Style and Business Value of Letter Writing-, 3s 6d, p. 4d
Gewurz: Wisdom and Success in Adver-
tising. An Interesting and Educative Manual,
wrapper Is 6d, postage 2d. /
Strong : The Art of Show Card Writing. —
A Modern Trelitise designed as an Educator in all
branches of the art; 256 illus. and 32 lettering plates,
10s 6d, postage 6d.
The Art of Decorating Show Windows
and interiors. complete Manual of Window
Dressing in all its detals, with very many illus., size
11x8 inches, 18s, postage Is 3d.
/ THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
son’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
car~ AN IDEAL REMEDY
g.E
r.S
mjstrauvi
meoical QAirrrt'sws
YO^
G. HUDSON;
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug:.
Suited for Old and Young.
Tim Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bacterieidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL .JUJUBES” do
not interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1j 6 ' n Stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY; LTD,, « york street, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
DEAD MEN’S DUST.
You don’t buv poetry. (Neither do I.)
Why?
You cannot afford it? Bosh ! you spend
Editions de luxe on a thirsty friend.
You can buy any one of the poetry bunch
For the price you pay for a business lunch.
Don’t you suppose that a hungry head.
Like an empty stomach, ought to be fed ?
Looking into myself, I find this true,
Bo I hardly can figure it false in you.
And you don’t read poetry very much.
(Such
Is my own case also.) “ But,” you cry,
“ I haven’t the time.” Beloved, you lie.
When a scandal happens in Buffalo.
You ponder the details, con and pro ;
If poets were pugilists, couldn’t you tell
Which of the poets licked John L. ?
If poets were counts, could your wife be fooled
As to which of the poets married a Gould ?
And even my books might have some hope
If poetry books were hooks of dope.
“ You’re a little bit swift,” you say to me ;
“See!”
You open your library. There you show
Your “favorite poets,” row on row,
Chaucer, Shakespeare, Tennyson, Poe,
A Homer unread, an uncut Horace,
A wholly forgotten William Morris.
My friend, my friend, can it be you thought
That these were poets whom you had bought ?
These are dead men’s bones. You bought their
mummies
To display your style, like clothing dummies.
But when do they talk to you ? Someone said
That these were poets which should be read.
So here they stand. But tell me, pray,
How many poets who live to-day
Have you, of your own volition, sought,
Discovered and tested, proved and bought,
With a grateful glow that the dollar you spent
Netted the poet his ten per cent. ?
“But hold on,” you say, “I am reading you.”
True,
And pitying, too, the sorry end
Of the dog I tried this on. My friend,
I can write poetry—good enough
So you wouldn’t look at the worthy stuff.
But knowing what you prefer to read
I’m setting the pace at about your speed.
Being rather convinced these truths will hold
you
A little bit better than if I’d told you
A genuine poem and forgotten to scold you.
Besides, when I open my little room
And see my poets, each in his tomb,
With his mouth dust-stopped, I turn from the
shelf,
And I must scold you, or scold myself.
Edmond Vance Oooke. —“ Impertinent Poems ”
(The Dodge Publishing Go., N. Y. J.
Some Boys’ Books
Is there any reader like the boy ? He
comes to the banquet-table with an unspoiled
palate, and items on the menu at which his
cloyed elders sniff indifference are to him
diet of all-relish. He is not an epicure ; he
does not desire peacocks’ tongues served on
golden dishes. He likes best the plain fat
joint that runs blood at every cut. To him
the writer’s delicate turns of phrase and
grace of word make little appeal : it is the
cut-and-thrust adventures of the writer’s
heroes that fix his eyes to the printed page.
It is only in after life, when he has eaten to
the full of the joint, that he turns to
the sauces and the flavor, searching out
their richness with an avid tongue. That
lack of limitations, that sense of boundless
horizons which is the heritage of youth,
makes him careless of detail; and, when he
sits down to a feast of fiction, it weighs less
than a feather with him whether or not his
story has literary style, perfection of plot,
probability or truth to life as its character-
istics. What he demands as an essential,
however, is that it should be full to the final
line with the spirit of adventure. His heroes
must always be fellows of courage and honor ;
his villains daring desperadoes, unlit by any
gleam of saving grace. To him chart and
map make vain appeal, for, in spite of
sextant and theodolite, his large faith com-
prehends an ocean dotted with unknown
islands—a continent peopled with undis-
covered races—isles of pearl and cities of
gold. It is only when the ageing years
narrow his imagination that Fact displaces
Fancy in the kingship of his mind-realm,
and he realises the littleness of the world.
A boy’s reading to a large extent is in-
fluenced by his environment and the history
of the country to which he belongs. Ido
not know what books are most favored by
the youth of England; but England is an
island, and a land of long tradition. I
should say that the literary tastes of the
English boy, if they were natural and whole-
some, would fa-vor tales of the Sea and the
Past. His Sea is an escape from the prison-
ing limits of his little country, "his Past is a
record of audacious achievement. With the
Australian boy the case is different. He has
no history worth recalling, but he has a
spacious continent as his birthright—a con-
tinent wide enough to stage the ci'eations of
a Shakespearian imagination. When the
coast-born boy sends his thoughts on an
adventurous quest he does not turn towards
the sea, although no sea of all the seven
that, wash the littorals of the earth is so big
with beauty, mystery and calm as that
which beats against our shores. The Sydney
boy (if I may take him as typical of the Aus-
tralian coast boy) when he gives wings to his
dreams, sends them soaring inland. On a
clear day in winter, when a west wind blows,
and the sky, seen through a dry, clean
atmosphere, looks newly washed and chaste,
the westward-looking eye may see the
Dividing Range, lying in the distance. In
my catapult days, when a twopenny train
ride to Stanmore was a journey into
Heathenesse, and a red-head, or a silver-
eye, or a long-billed lidneysucker filled my
heart with all the hunter’s eagerness to
follow and to slay, that mountain range
was like a beckoning thing. Beyond
it lay a wide mysterious expanse-
untrodden wastes —acres of moving sheep,
herds of bellowing cattle, strong, sun-
browned gallopers, red camp-fires, romance,
adventure, illimitability. The Australian,
with such magnificent horizons, does not need
to send his thoughts on a sea-quest; he has
a Sufficient theatre near at hand for their
staging. The desire of the Australian boy is
for things Australian—to see his country
costumed in romance ; but books about Aus-
tralia are' few and far between, and so, willy-
nilly, he is compelled elsewhere for his
and employs his recreative moments
in devouring books which put him out of
sympathy with the aims, the aspects and the
environment of the land of his birth. It was
so, at any rate, when I was a boy ; but that
was long before the establishment of the
Commonwealth made the sense of nation-
hood a resident and abiding thing in Aus- •
tralia, and, also, long before Australians
began to regard their country as a land
which it was their duty to love, to under-
stand, to assist.
\tL
What has become of Jack Harkaway, that
fine dare-devil of boy fiction ? Pre-eminently
he was the hero of the young mind of a
quarter of a century back —a fellow who
owned a following that would have made
Napoleon fit and eager for greater things.
He flamed on many bookstalls ; he was a
name on the lips of every lad that one met
in a day’s walk ; he was the subject of sur-
reptitious borrowing and lending. Boys of
the period followed his adventurous career
with undying interest; discussed his deeds
in the lunch interval of school hours, or,
after school at street corners; loved
his friend Harvey for his loyal heart
and brave assisting arm in time of
peril ; hated his enemy Hunston with a'
whole heart and a whole soul ; and held
their sides in laughter with Harkaway and
Harvey, when “Old Mole,” the Professor,
in some unhappy episode, contrived to make
himself an object of merriment or ridicule.
It was not without regret . that the juvenile
mind, after many numbers full of astonish-
ing adventures—bloody bouts with pirates in
the Malay Archipelago, fierce rifle-work with
Indians ,in North America, and red doings
with bushrangers in Australia—watched their
hero subside into ease and an arm-chair at a
country gentleman s commonplace fireside.
Certainly the appearance of a son did a trifle
to lessen our bitterness, but the mantle of
the father was no perfect fit for the shoulders
of the son, and we read of his doings with a
half heart. Oblivion has overtaken the gal-
lant hero of five-and-twenty years ago, and
the bookstalls know him not; but of
old he was a name with which to con-
jure. I remember a seat in a sunny
corner and a tragedy which befell. Harka-
way, I think, was then pursuing a career
of blood and glory amongst the deadly
kris-armed pirates of the Malay Archipelago,
slitting weasands and slashing skulls, and
the pages which told of these doings made
royal reading. I sat on the seat in the
sunny corner entranced, enthralled, like one
who has fed himself on lioney-dew and drunk
the milk of paradise. Unnoticed, oniniver-
ous, disreputable— an old grey goat drew
near. Fate in the shape of an authoritative
parental voice summoned me to a sudden
task, and I rose to obey—leaving the book
behind me. That book I never saw again.
When I returned to my seat I saw the goat
standing near it; I saw the goat’s jaw con-
genially employed ; I saw the last red rem-
nant of the book’s cover disappearing into
the goat’s mouth; and rage and anger
surged through me to think that such a
noble character as Harkaway, with all his
daring and gallantry and glory, should meet
with an untimely grave in a goat’s gullet.
Other books which chained the interest of
the boys of a generation ago dealt with Tom
Wildrake, and told the story of his school-
days. These, too, were excellent reading, and
through their pages stumped a wooden-legged
veteran named Dabber, who lied with vim
and energy, and lied gloriously. Then too,
“Handsome Harry” and his fiery fellows
took ship and sailed to sea bent on deeds of
derring-do; and “Cheerful Ching Ching,”
who in due time became “ Wonderful Ching
Ching ” and later on, in ,his life of joy and
valor, achieved the crowning title of
“ Marvellous Ching Ching,” made splendid
reading.
\t/
In this article I have said nothing of
Marryat, that prince of sea writers, or of
Fenimore Cooper, or of Mayne Reid, or of
Kingston, or of any of those other immortals
who shall endure on our bookshelves as long
as the mind of youth imagines, and the heart
of youth has yearnings. I have written only
of some books that are no more—books that
were pleasant reading once upon a time, and
did no harm, even if they did no great good.
RODERIC QUINN.
Agnes Storrie’s Poems
Agnes L. Storrie, whose “Twenty Gal-
lons of Sleep ” has been appreciated by
many tired Australians, now publishes
a second collection of Poems (J. W.
Kettlewell, Sydney) in a gaily decorated
cover. The book contains over a hun-
dred items-, about half of which are re-
printed from the volume published in 1899.
It does not place Agnes Storrie any ’higher
in the list of our verse writers, but it
more firmly establishes her position as one
of the few accomplished craftswomen in
Australia. There are some slight flaws ;
but, on the whole, these verses are correct
and graceful, embodying essentially femi-
nine fancies and sentiments, mixed with
patriotism. Many of the new verses are
charming, especially “A Poppy,” “A Per-
fect Day” and “Love’s Illusions.” She got
some of the spirit of motion into “Dorothy’s
Dancing ” :
As the spirit of sound may dwell in a chord,
And the spirit of thought be embalmed in a word,
And the spirit of color inhabit a rose,
And the spirit of scent in its heart repose,
So the spirit of motion lurks, graceful and fleet,
In the exquisite' moulding of Dorothy’s feet.
Dorothy dancing !
Oh ! think of the glancing
Of Dorothy’s dancing feet.
There is warmth and color in her “Pro-
test” against the misrepresentation of Aus-
tralia by alien writers, from which the
following lines are taken :
What think ye of our sunsets?
Where have you ever seen
Such crystal depths of amethyst,
Such limpid seas of green ?
What flower that ever budded
On earth’s enamelled breast
Can match the magic blossom
That opens in the west.
And over fields of azure
Its rosy petals sheds,
And those untrodden pathways
With golden pollen spreads;
Then fades in lovely pallors,
To greys, remote and far,
While'from its withered calyx
Springs up a living star.
Rhetoric, however, is apt to run away with
her, and has spoiled two or three attempts
in dramatic verse. The lyrics and sonnets,
light in theme and neatly constructed, are
more satisfactory; and the following sonnet,
with an irregular rhyme scheme, is a fair
sample ;
Every seasoned reader knows what to
expect-from Hall- Caine,* and those who like
that kind of thing will not be disappointed
with The White Prophet (W. Dytnock).
His public pay him handsomely, and he
serves them well. There is plenty of violent
sensation, plenty of lurid color, a juicy situa-
tion or two, and an abundance of cant in
this live-act melodrama published in two
volumes. The situation is Egypt, and the
time now. Cromer might have suggested
the'Consul-General : the White Prophet is a
pure and exalted Mahdi; but the heroine
was begotten by Hall alone and -unaided.
Her like does not exist outside of Caine’s
novels, and is only approached there by the
charming creature in The Christian. The
story is like a cyclorama—a large canvas
crowded with figures and patches of glaring
color, the steady rumble of stage thunder,
and a little man lecturing in the middle.
The sad state into which poetry has fallen
in Britain is indicated by the formation of
the Poetry Recital Society, “to popularise
interest in poetry and to assist in bringing
about ‘ a poetic renaissance.’ ” Lady Mar-
garet Saclcville is president ; Chesterton,
Marzials, Wilfred Sea wen Blunt and R. H.
Benson are vice-presidents— all pOets. Gals-
worthy became an honorary member, and
his letter of acceptance contains some
remarks worth quoting :
May I say that I hope at least as much atten-
tion will be given by the society to discouraging
the merely “ poetical ” as to fostering the love of
the real thing? For poetry, as I understand it, is
the most delicate, and about the rarest thing in
the world, and there is a vast amount of base coin
in circulation, not altogether disconnected with
some of the biggest names.. . No real renaissance
of an art can take place unless there is a faith and
spirit behind it prompting it to find new forms,
and to express the- life and thought of its
own age. I ask myself whether there is as yet
sufficient of this new faith and spirit. The old
poetry, like the old fiction (I take the Victorian
era) was based on an exaltation of the individual.
It will be found impossible, I tbink, to regal-
vanise that horse, and I hope it will not be
attempted. The great beauties of Nature, and
the great forces of Nature, and man’s gallant
struggle against them are always with us and
always a fit subject for poetry—great poetry, not
small—but for the rank and file of poets the only
things worth expressing are their own rare and
intimate feelings in the light of the faith that we
are all one, and working for a better social life and
greater mutual understanding.
OLD AGE.
I will not weep because my day has waned
And brought the twilight, though the long, long
yeans
That lie beyond, and are so deeply veined
With light and shadow and the dew of tears,
Tug at my heart and bid me glance behind.
Still shall I strive to meet the gathering gloom
With an unfaltering heart, and mayhap find
Across iny path some lingering flower in bloom.
There is no road of all our eyes have seen
So smooth and peaceful as the homeward way;
There is no hour of all the glittering day
So sweet as twilight, and methinks between
The lights of time and of eternity
A benediction shall encompass me.
Clarke’s Preface to Gordon’s
Poems
Some remarks under this heading on the
“ Red Page ” (2/9/’O9) provoke the following
notes-
When Mr. Murdoch, in his preface to the
new issue of “ Sea Spray and Smoke Drift, ”
says the first issue “ was not welcomed at
all ” by the colonial press, he simply re-
peats a misstatement. Perhaps Clarke knew
what he meant when he spoke of the “ suc-
cess" of the book. A financial success it
certainly never was. But from another
point of view, perhaps, it might be considered
as great a success as any poet could expect
in Australia at that time. In a notice of
Gordon’s death the Australasian said : “As
a poet he had gained considerable repute,
a volume entitled “Sea Spray and Smoke
Drift ” having been very favorably noticed
by the Colonial and British press,” The
book was reviewed in Bell’s Life, and in
The Colonial Monthly for November, 1867,
appeared a review of both “ Ashtaroth ” and
“Sea Spray.” The Australasian acknow-
ledged the receipt of “ Ashtaroth,” and an-
nounced a review of it for the following
issue, but no review was forthcoming.
“ The fame of Clarke’s preface,” says your
article, “depends upon the concluding por-
tion, in which he answers his own question :
‘ What is the dominant note of Australian
scenery V ”
Now, it is a curious fact that Clarke did
not write this “ concluding portion ” as a
preface to Gordon’s poems at all ! His con-
cern with Gordon ended at the beginning of
the fifth paragraph. That may have been
the finish of his preface, which Clarke liitn-
self calls “a few lines,” but the publisher
may have required more (which is merely
conjecture), and so it is expanded to as much
again.
He evidently had nothing more to say con -
cerning the poet and his poetry ; but he
could say a lot concerning the inspiration
of such poetry as he was now introducing.
He had already said this well elsewhere, and
it fitted into his present requirements—so
he would “ lift ” it. And it recounts to the
genius of the man that he “ lifted ” so well.
A touch here, a touch there ; a sentence
thrown out and a sentence thrown in, and
the thing was done.
Here is a sentence omitted after the ward
“reflection” at the beginning of the sth
paragraph:
Iti this young land, which lacks as yet sufficient
history of its own to show by its exampled teach-
ings the littleness of man’s ambitions, we meet
with natural writings more sombre in their mean-
ing for the student, if less plain to the casual
glances of the hurried seeker after worldly
fortune.
And this is what he substitutes :
But this our native or adopted land has no past,
no story. No poet speaks to us. Do we need a
poet to interpret Nature’s teachings, we must look
into our own hearts, if perchance we may find a
poet there.
In the sentence quoted in your article
“ Wrapped in the midst of early morning,”
the-original has it “ Wrapped in the mists,”
etc.
The original matter appeared in a work
published in Melbourne in 1875 — Photo-
graphs of the Pictures in the National Gallery,
Melbourne-- -edited by Marcus Clarke.
VIC.
SAMUEL ROW.


Jk
wee
at the New Palace Emporium.
'• ?s.
La/un/y
:7'H .Of-
w&sions
fXT'
■x ■
m
sM<r:
i JP
*W
/oo
cTamouj
./ c zJ
Tf HORDERHS'
os^rtce y
No. 40— Burnt Tagal Straw Pioture Hat, trimmed Soft Black Satin Ribbon and
Large Fancy White Osprey Mount, caught at side with American
Beauty Rose, 957-
No. 11— White Crinoline Hat, Full Crown of Crinoline Straw, trimmed Choux of
Vieux Rose, Ribbon and Foliage, 21/-
No. 100— Fancy Burnt Straw Hat, trimmed Wreath Bebb Rose and Meadow Sweet,
Large Bow of Pale Blue Ribbon at Back, 257-
No. 45— Black and White Straw Hat, Crown of White Quilted Tulle, trimmed
Black Cherries, Foliage and Black Ribbon Velvet, 30/-
Q>prznf
f
■
,'r - •
954
if M
60100
BNIHONY HORDERNS;
ft {
C Z%'/cof
No. 60100— Fine White Organdi Muslin Blouse Costume, trimmed Valenciennes
Insertion' and Embroidery ; also with Plain Full Bishop Sleeves 22/6
No. 954— Linen Crash Coat and Skirt, finished with Collar of White and Colored
Stnpes. Shades—Brown, Navy, Green, Butcher Blue and White.
No. 6281— White Muslin Blouse Costume, trimmed Valenciennes Lace and
Embroidery and Fine Tucks, also with Plain Full Bishop Sleeves, 19/6
Muslin Costumes stocked in S.W., W. and O S.
The illustrations in the
announcement are re-
duced fac similes of four
pages in our Spring and
Summer Fashion Book.
The drawings were
sketched from the goods,
and accurately present
the prevailing modes.
a
Country patrons who are
unable to personally in-
spect our magnificent
display of the .. .
SEASON'S NOVELTIES.
should consult our
Fashion Portfolio.
Write for a copy, posted
free on request. It illus-
trates all that is new in
the world of dress—the
smartest Millinery, the
latest shapes in Foot-
wear, new Corset Models,
Ladies' Lingerie, and
Sunshades.
ine immense resources
of our Ready-to-Wear
Costume Department
enable us to meet the
requirements of almost
every patron. These
exceptional facilities
offer the choice of a
Fashionable Costume
that possesses all the
charm of a Made-to-
Order Gown, and our
system of trade permits
us to offer these latest
creations at a price
which effects a consider-
able saving in the ex-
penditure necessitated in
conforming to the
demands of fashion.
Terms:
SPOT CASH.
’tTV’S
of fAc
'+—
(/fomes/f
~tff
W t
*■'*
/ya
Anthony m
. Horpek^
*SN
C/uV/AY/'i
? A.V *>
/<>
-*3
No. 198— Brown Crinoline Hat, trimmed Plaited Tulle, and Buckle of Shaded
Hyacinths, 257-
No. 3— Fancy Straw Toque, Crown of Hyacinths, Choux of Soft Satin Ribbon and
Cabachon, 37/6
No. 199— Brown Net and Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Satin Ribbon in two tone of
Brown, cluster of Cream Roses and Osprey, Greenstone Buckle, 70/-
No. 43— White Crinoline Hat, trimmed White Tulle, edged narrow Black Straw,
Pink Roses at back, 307-
No. 10— Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Hydrangea and Floral Ribbon, 1876.
/a r
s
m
i
/
m
400
Anthony Horderns’ c Taxvc’uSvZZ'■J'c,Zrzcej-.
No. 258-Fine White Muslin Blouse and Skirt Costume, prettily Embroidered Blouse,
full {gathered Skirt, trimmed Insertion, in S.W., W. and 0.5., 16/6.
No. 400— Linen Coat and Skirt, smartly cut Hip Coat., trimmed Striped Linen, Collar
and Cuffs, plain {rored Skirt; Colors—Navy, Brown, Heliotrope and
Butcher Blue, in S. YV., W. and 0.5., 21/-
No. 3037 — White Muslin Blouse and Skirt Costume, trimmed Fine Tucks,
Embroidery and Insertion, full gathered tucked Skirt, in S.W., W. and
0.5., 10/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
ANDRADE’S
MINSTREL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
J okes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
Post Free.
1/2.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, byJ.H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and C a 111 e—C auses,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
plages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book,
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer. 1/-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
t
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
P 1 a y i ns
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Com pi ete,
with full in-
struct ions;
anyone can
work them.
219,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are (l)The Lightning:
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. eacli;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
S. SMITH & SON’S
S.SMfTH &.SON
S. STRAND
LONDON
50
fENT
A
©
From 5 Guineas.
(LTD.)
Perfect
SPEED
INDICATORS
ARE FITTED TO
Over 20,000 Cars
AND HAVE COVERED
200,000,000 Miles.
IN USE ALL OVER THE WORLD
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF
SPEED INDICATORS, MOTOR WATCHES, MILOMETERS,
PETROL-METERS and MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue. Special Terms to Shippers.
9 Strand, London.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
1
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and Ml*. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director. >
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIOCS, Local Director.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, post free.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price l Si-, post free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
Get a copy of the latest B.S.A. Handbook and learn how to distinguish the GENUINE B.S.A.
FI rTINGS trom the shoddy imitation, it costs you nothing and may save you a great deal. Post free from—*
D. Y. RENNIE, representing B.S.A. CO. LTD., 5 Stock Exchange Boiling. Methmime.
GENERAL
DEBILITATION
THE LIVER BLAMED.
Sincerity of conviction and directness of pur-
pose mark the action of Mr. Thomas Theak in
giving for publication the ensuing lines, which
were written at his home, No. 88" Botany Road,
Alexandria.
“lam one of the few people living in Sydney
who has never been out of it,'’ was Mr. Theak s
initial remark, “not that it is anything to boast
about, but purely an uncommon circumstance.”
“Your business does not conduce to much
travelling, perhaps?” said the interviewer.
“I’m a painter by trade, and there Inis been
plenty of work to keep me here, without wasting
time looking for it in other parts. Yes ;_I have
done fairly well from a business standpoint, but
from a health point of view 1 was not always so
fortunate. Let me give you, for example, the
time that I found it necessary to start taking
medicine, and I must have been pretty bad to
take that on, I teil you. It was because I was
much weaker than 1 should have been, conse-
quent, I firmly believe, on working too hard. 1
had the unpleasant experience of never being able
to relish my food, no matter how daintily pre-
pared, for my appetite had fallen away to nothing.
I was also troubled with most uncomfortable, feel-
ings, following upon the taking of foods, the
stomach tilling with gases, and causing pain, be-
sides being oppressed with a dreariness of mind
which made it too much trouble to devote my
thoughts to anything. 1 felt fit for nothing but
to go and lie down after meals, and a person in a
healthy state should not be like that, you know.”
“That condition is a sure indication that some-
thing has gone wrong with the liver?”
“Precisely; and that’s what I was suffering
from. I went on ailing for a good length of time,
going from bad to worse, and wondering what on
earth would cure me and make my life a bit more
bearable, when a son of mine who had been using
Clements Tonic advised me to try some. Well,
that was the best introduction I have ever had,
because Clements Tonic has been a firm friend of
mine ever since. But before I get too far ahead
c mv story, let me tell you of the way I suffered
troui Headaches —so heavy and acute that I could
scarcely raise ray head from the pillow, and mak-
ing me wish that I could leave this earth and all
its misery behind. A coated tongue and a vile
taste in the mouth started the day’s round of dis-
agreeable circumstances, and my sight got so dim
as to lead me to think that a skin was growing
over them. Then the giddy feelings—why, some-
times I almost dropped, through their sudden
visits, and my shoulders were so affected with
pain that it hurt me to move. Indeed, on one
occasion I was for a whole week and could not
raise my arms. The chest and stomach were also
out of gear, and on top of it all I was listless and
low-spirited to a marked degree. Each morning I
got up feeling that I did not care what happened
always being more inclined to go back tp bed
again than to dress myself. There was sufficient
evidence to show that my nervous system was feel-
ing the strain of my physical adversities, so you
will see there was a big contract in front of Clem-
ents Tonic when I made my first purchase of that
valuable remedy. But I found it very much up
to-date, believe me. There was no taking of half-
a-dozen bottles. and feeling no better, as applies
to other medicines. Oh ! no; neither do I say that
I felt all right after taking one bottle of dements
Tonic ; yet I can truthfully assert that I felt some-
what relieved, and that by judiciously sticking to
that treatment I. conquered in the end. Yes,
Clements Tonic gained a complete mastery over
each of my ailments, and left me in the happy
position of being able to eat and drink whatever
I liked, without experiencing any ill effects after-
wards. Its power over the nerves is extraordi-
nary. its appetising influences are unique, its value
as a promoter of sleep is unrivalled, and for curing
indigestion and building up one’s strength I’m
positive there is nothing to come within coo-ee of
Clements Tonic.”
“ Well, we’ll print your remarks ? ”
“Do—in any form you like to mention, or de-
cide upon.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, THOMAS THEAII, of 88 Botany Road, Alexandria,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my' statements—which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, this twenty-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me,
111
W. A. POWELL* J.»


The Best
Cough Drops
Are Drops
of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
filler’s
'€herri{ federal
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing, relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
in the bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure ycu get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.. U.S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from onr Coyentry factory
hi B helt ogra 0 grad o e n M e ßAD ay “’ a W royal - ° ur
Coventry Flyers
SL I^f B . t ! lan J < 2^ e 5 t man °fscturcrs' prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
r
LATEST
MODELS
£3*lo to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted In each dis-
- irr - tricfc. Larce torofit*
easily made. Write it- once, using sufficient postage,
on sample o machi* Catalo « u6a ““ Special Offer
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ De Pt 2 80 LIVERPOOL.
LONE HAND is the logical complement
_l_ of Ihe Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
Oeorge Street, Sydney.
EDITH SPOUNCER
When only-3 months old
little Edith Spouncer, 14
Smith Street, Camperdown,
Sydney, N. S.W., had a
severe attack of whooping
cough and bronchitis, and
her parents thought she
would die. “ I gave her
SCOTT’S Emulsion,” writes
her mother, Mrs. A. Spouncer
(Sept., 1907) “ and after the
first bottle there was a vast
improvement. She has now
fully recovered, and is a fine,
healthy baby.” SCOTT’S is
the perfection of emulsions
and there is only one quality
the standard. When
buying SCOTT’S, therefore,
you may be quite certain
that you are getting the
precise thing which restored
Edith Spouncer to health
and strength. See SCOTT’S
“fishman” on the package
—that makes it the right
emulsion !
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND DEALERS
IN MEDICINES.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE !
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and .healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “BON N lIMGTON’S’
1/6 &t 2/6,
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee .
** OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Carrie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
GLASS OM
JjORUCK'S
Halted mu-**
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught it
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples- 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
DEVELOP
28]
YOUR
BUST
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
SAMPLE OF
TREATMENT.
Every woman may possess a perfectly-
developed and well-rounded bosom.
Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-food adds weight
where weight is needed, and perfects an
imperfect bust development.
Harmless to use, and in tablet form,
this method will gratify every wish of
the poorly-developed or attenuated
woman. Send a 2d. stamp for free
sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO
DEPT. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY,
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted lor their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Largo Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street. Sydney.
WOODMILNE,
HEELS
l
Relieve
Shock
I glad grandpa wears Rubber flgels
WOOD-MILNE Rubber Heels have
revolutionised footwear. The old-
fashioned leather heel is rapidly
becoming obsolete. It is universally
recognised to-day that rubber is the
correct substance for boot-heels,
softens the shock of walking on hard
streets, and gives ease and vigour to the
walk. Moreover, Wood-Milne Rubber
la§ts far longer than leather, and so
prevents the boot from losing shape.
2127
The Association oi Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Amethyst and Pearl Ear-
rings, £2 15s. per pair.
Gold Art Locket, set
4 Diamonds, £1 i s .
Cable Address : RUSPOLI, LONDON.
Pearl and Amethyst
Brooch, £3 3s.
Amethyst & Pearl or Coral
and Pearl Brooch, £1 is.
Amethyst & Diamond
Pendant, £lO 10s.
Same price, with
Opals or Peridots.
Ruby or
Sapphire &
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
New Pearl
and Peridot
Earrings,
£2 lSs.
. per pair.
Gold Charm Crystal
Bowl, 12s. 6d.
Belter thai^vm! ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase Chearer and
now doing. Write tor Catalogue containing 6,000
illustrations, Post Free to any part ot the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Destiny.
. In the sleepy moonlight
The ivory trysting time ;
Linked in gold together,
Birds of self-same feather.
Maid and man are carried
Into realms of bliss ;
Heart to heart is married,
Love perfected is.
Hush,-be still and.happy !
Leaves of all the trees
Shake themselves and glisten,
Little breezes listen
In the silver splendor
Round about, above ;
The silken scene grows tender
With the dreams of love !
In the sleepy moonlight
Passion-melted eyes.
Drowned in liquid yearning,
Up to dark eyes turning,
Flood the night with glory,
Hold the hours in thrall;
What though Time turn hoary,
Love is all in all!
In the sleepy moonlight ,
All the blossoms dream ;
Only rose-lips shaken
By warm love-breaths waken,
Wake and are disparted,
Showing pearls within;
Heaven might well be thwarted
By such ruby sin !
In the sleepy moonlight
Underneath the trees,
Two and two they languish
In delicious anguish,
; Lost in stainless rapture,
’Rapt in long caress;
Each a-strive to capture
The moment’s keenest bliss.
In the sleepy moonlight,
Ah, how cold it grows !
Who is this goes wending
With dark eyes down-bending,
And a face of sorrow ?
Saying, ’neath her breath :
“Love, to-night; to-morrow,
Ruin, Age and Death.’’
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Castille.
Our hot blood was made for loving,
His runs weak as wit o’ wine •
All the splendid life is racing
In the red of yours and mine.
So I sit and dream and wonder,
Do his Spanish eyes gleam true ?
But—“ A fig for swarthy lovers.
They have naught to do with you ! ”
Would my English husband answer
If my English husband knew?
But I prize those stolen kisses
From that wicked son o’ Spain,
For I loved the swarthy liar
As I’ll never love again.
And, i’faith, I think it’s better,
When a woman sells her soul,
That the man to buy the bauble
Shall still hold himself heart-whole,
I hat her shame be hid ’mong many
On his long dishonored roll.
3. A.
LILLIAS GORDON.
The Bounder.
I feel I’m fully justified in railing at the luck
That ruled that I must flog, and flag, and
flounder
Beneath a crushing handicap that keeps one in
the ruck ;
The handicap of being born a bounder.
For anyone will tell you that a bounder is tabooed,
And that decent men will keep him at a distance ;
To him alone it s right on all occasions to be rude,
With cool determination and persistence.
No gentleman will greet him with a hearty “ How
d ye do ! ”
A self-respecting thief will hardly know him ;
And no one but a poet, or a Chinaman or two,
Would walk with him as far as he could throw
him.
A merchant, or an editor, when bounders are
about,
Instinctively grows gloomily defiant,
And locks the office door, or'tells the boy to sav
he s out, J
When busy with a girl—l mean a client.
w I’d itgree to any sacrifice on earth,
T , And suffer any torments incidental,
it only it would exorcise this curse upon my birth
Atl ge'ntle 1116 somet bing modest, good and
The office-boy, rf I were only gentle, would un-
ThV^i- talk wv me ’ and treat me like & brother ;
ine cat and the accountant would receive me as
a friend ;
The typist girl would kiss„me for my mother.
I’d enter any office with an air of noble prided
1° know my very presence was a pleasure—
If Theho,, w a ft en , tlernan -and when I got inside
I he boss would always wait upon my leisure.
BUfc thecat°’ 0k UpWard) Vainly t 0 the typist and
Though once I won a simper from the l itter •
I know myself unworthy t P O approach the outer
F ° r Matter nder S is shorfc for Misplaced
N.s.w.
WAIF.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING'S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Supper Parties can be
engaged for four to 30 persons. Banqueting Room for
250. Seating accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 5.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of “THE BURLINGTON ” is the
FISH AND OYSTER. CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed*
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BV AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
wm
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. 6d. Packet of TEN. sdi
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
No. llS92B—loot. Gold Pearl and Tourmaline Set
Bangle, £B.
No. H 7076 —Pean and Tourmaline
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch Pendant,
£7/15/-
No. Jll7 —9ct. Gold Safety Pins,
Turquoise Set,
11/6 and 7/6 each.
No. H3Bl2—9et. Gold Heavy Twist Bangle, set Diamond
and Kubies, £4/10/-
o. Hl69 —Diamond Sunburst
Brooch or Pendant, Finest
Quality, £57/10/-
No. FS7lB—lSct.
Gold, Five Rows
Assorted Gems,
Bangle Ring, £7/7/-
No. H 4723— Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold Circle Brooch, Real
Coral Drop, £l/7/6.
No. C3343—Pearl Set Lace
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 9/6.
No. C3342—Pearl Set Oct. Gold
Safety Pin, 9/6.
No. D 1276 —Whole Pearl and Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
No. G9l4l—lfiet. Gold Brooch, Set
Single Diamond, £2/10/-
No. H6oli Pearl t n 1
Tourmaline Set Pen'daut,
Oct. Gold, £2/2/-
J a/Uu
um&nt
(AUSTRALIA)
Ltd
WE aim to supply all conditions ol people and all size
purses, and so satisfactorily do we do it that we, at
some time during the year, get all the lovers of
pretty things as customers. These are examples of the
Newest Designs and Range of Prices. If you cannot call,
write for our Fine Art Illustrated Catalogue. Postage paid
on all articles ordered by post. Money back if goods are
not up to representations.
No. H 7732 —Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, in Case, £7/7/-
Magnificent Diamond “ New Moon and Crescent ” Brooch, £7O.
No. Cloo 15ct. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise Spray Brooch, £l5.
No. H7729—Pearl nnrt Tur-
quoise Set, 15cfc. Gold Tortoise
Safety Brooch, £2/15/-
No. F22SC—Pearl Set. 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£l/10/-
No.' 03334—15 ct. Gold,
Pearl, and Australian
Ruby Set Brooch, £3/3/-
No. J62o—Finest Quality
Diamond Rinfr, £l6/10/*
No. H 8929 —15ct. Gold, Pearl ana Green or Pink Tourmaline
Set Bangle, £lO/10/-
No. G3341—15ct. Gold, Opal and
Rub}’ Brooch, £2*
No. 03610—Whole Pearl, Ruby
and Diamond Ser, Brooch
Pendant, £3O.
No. 148—Fine Diamond and Ruby Set Bangle,
9ct. Gold, £4 10s.
No. G9sl2—Fine Sapphire or Ruby Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l5/10/-
No. Cloo—Finest Quality Single Stone Diamond
Brooch, £65.
No. 2003—Diamond Star Brooch
or Pendant, £57/10/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1546.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1909.
Price 6d.
SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON a tree by a river a little bird sat,
Singing, “ Fish ! Stinking Fish ! Stinking Fish ! ”
And I asked, “ Oh ! you naughty bird, what are you at
With your “Fish! Stinking Fish! Stinking Fish?”
Then he said it again, and I thought it absurd,
For he was the Australian Commissioner Bird,
And, of course, London laughed ev’ry time that it heard
His loud “Fish! Stinking Fish! Stinking Fish!”
“ Tell me, bird,” I implored, “why that phrase you repeat?
What is ‘ Fish ! Stinking Fish ! Stinking Fish ? ’
Surely that isn’t what you’re accustomed to eat
in your dear little salary dish !
1 refuse to believe that your owner can be
Such a beast as to give you such things for your tea! ”
But he opened his beak, and he hollered at me:
“ I say * Fish ! Stinking Fish ! Stinking Fish ! ’ ”
N.S.W.
Then I said: “Little Bird, that’s a horrid remark,
That bad ‘ Fish ! Stinking Fish ! Stinking Fish ! ’
Who on earth taught you that as you perched in the dark,
Saying, ‘ Fish ! Stinking Fish ! Stinking Fish ! ’ ?
It is very unpleasant. Your own common°sense
Should have told you it’s Lkely to give much offence.”
But he fluttered and flapped with an effort Immense,
And yelled, “ Fish ! Stinking Fish ! Stinking Fish ! ”
“Little Bird,” I remarked, “ere I finally trek,
Take my word that your ‘Fish! Stinking Fish!’
Will yet make us wring your ridiculous neck!
Don’t you ‘Fish ! Stinking Fish ! Stinking Fish! ’ ”
But the cry was embedded too deep in his brain,
And he knew nothing else. That was perfectly plain,
For he made no reply save to do it again.
Just said : “ Fish ! Stinking Fish ! Stinking Fish! ”
KODAK.
THE WRONG BIRD.
Mr. Sparrow, of London, said at the Chamber of Commerce conference that the Canadian representative in London called out all the time “Canada! Canada!
Canada . Australia required a High Commissioner who would incessantly call out “Australia! Australia! Australia! ”
But, unluckily, if John Forrest or Geo. Reid gets the job the cry is more likely to be something as above.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £■l 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct, to Tm? Bullktin Office Tn'enty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tint Bullktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Comnmmcations
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Thk Bullktin would oblige, the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the. Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ 'The Editor. Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. 'The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be. refused.
The. contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers. |
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse., Short Talcs or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tm? Bullktin rvill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamp Jj
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to hi
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Thk Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible for the preservation or
•transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone, supplying to Tm? Bulletin original humorous
•or other topical d.raivings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
•any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Thk Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Thk Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and.
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egyi't. — The Colonial Book and Neurs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
SiNGAroRK. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bullktin metal advertising plates, size 6iin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1909.
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Norman Lindsay and
other leading representative artists, will be the
finest Black and White work obtainable in Austra-
lia, and will reflect the national humor.
Thk Bulsktin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
THE INCOMPLETE DEFENCE BILL.
There is at least this much to be said for the
Fused Government’s Defence Bill—considering
the source from which it comes it isn’t much
more half-hearted and apologetic than might be
-expected. That statement may not read like wild
;an d hilarious commendation, but a Coalition
Ministry is always a half-hearted compromise,
arrived at by political leader Smith agreeing to
drop all the ideas that Jones objects to, and
political leader Jones agreeing to drop all the
principles that Smith objects to, in consequence
whereof the Smith-Jones programme is a lazy,
skimp, boneless affair with very little hope or
prospect about it. No really vigorous or definite
action is ever expected from a Coalition, and,
starting from that viewpoint, the Defence
Bill might really be worse. It provides
in a certain way for the training of all
able-bodied male citizens between the ages of
12 and 26. The soldier of 12 is only a jest, yet
between the ages of 12 and 14 the future defender
of his country is to put in 120 hours’ annual drill
with a miniature rifle or dummy weapon or
broomstick or something. Between the ages of 14
and 18 the coming defender is to have a uniform
and do rather more drill. Then he will cease to
be a cadet and become a member of the Citizen
Forces, and for the next two years—that is to say
until he is 20—he is to do 16 days’ training per
annum “or their equivalent.” What an “equiva-
lent” may be isn’t explained. Presumably it
may be any old substance that the Government of
the day happens to specify.
* * * *
It is just at this point in his career that the
future defender of his country should begin to
become useful, and it is here that his serious
training might be expected to commence. The boy
soldier is too light-headed and ill-ballasted and
irresponsible to be of much account. There is an
objection to caning him if he won’t attempt
to keep step, and it is impossible to recover from
him the monetary penalty of not less than £5 or
more than £lOO for refusal to serve—in fact, it is
expressly stipulated that no attempt shall be
made to collect that penalty from anybody aged
less than 18 who evades his term of service.
Furthermore, the youth under 20 is unfit for long
marches or for any of the really heavy work that
a soldier must become accustomed to if he is to be
anything dimly resembling a real soldier. There-
fore it is pleasing to know that the Australian
warrior is to continue his training until he reaches
the age of 26. Then arrives the staggering infor-
mation that “except in time of imminent danger
of war”—not merely plain danger, but the immi-
nent article —the male population between the
ages of 20 and 26—the really useful part of
the force —isn’t to be trained at all. It is
to attend a muster once a year at the most, and
even this doesn’t neccssari ly happen; the Bill states?
that, instead of the muster, there may be a regis-
tration once a, year. A muster is only a public
open-air meeting, and doesn’t even pretend to have
any serious military value, and six musters in six
years are of about the same use as six accidental
meetings at a street corner. As for the regisV
tration, that is apparently a mere entering up of
a record of men of the prescribed age—2o to 26.
Beyond the age of 26 it seems that there won’t
even be a record of the men liable to serve. The
Bill provides that every man under the age of 60
may be called upon in time of war, and it divides
them into five classes. The first call is to be made
upon unmarried men or childless widowers, aged
between 18 and 35. The second call will bring out
the same class 67 men aged between 35 and 45.
The third will beasummonsto men between 18and
35 who are married or are widowers with children.
The fourth covers the same class up to the
age of 45. And after that is to come, in
the final extremity of war, the last scraping
together of male humanity—the bald, the grey
and the toothless, right up to the 60th year. But
apparently there won’t Vie even a register of the
men liable to serve in these varied classes when
once the age of 26 is passed.
* * * *
The Coalition’s apologetic Bill goes on to add
that the measure shall not come into force when
passed into law, but on a date to be fixed by pro-
clamation, and apparently the proclamation may
be postponed for years. It will almost certainly
be postponed until the Government gdts quite
rested, and a tired Government will probably find
it much easier to postpone the proclamation than
to wade in hard at the great work of military
organisation. Then the operation of the Act,
even when it really comes into force, may be sus-
pended by proclamation for any length of time
over any area that an exhausted Ministry
thinks fit. Consequently a really exhausted
Ministry, which feels quite unequal to the work of
organisation, may decree an indefinite suspension
over Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria, Tasmania,
the Northern Territory, and all South Australia
and Westralia except the towns of Gawler and
Bunbury. In this respect it will have to lend an
ear, especially when its majority is very low, to
the military exemption member, who will be the
old roads and bridges member with variations.
There are large possibilities about this exemption
business, especially if the Ministry is very, very
tired. Again, it is provided that everybody who is
aged 18 or more at the time when the part of the
Act which deals with military training comes into
force shall be exempt from training, and also
everybody who is due to reach the age of 18 at
any time during the year when that part of the
Act comes into force. Thus if the Act comes into
force on January 1 the youth aged 17 years and one
day will be exempt. The proposed training is
wretched enough, and under this remarkable
arrangement it will Vie two years before the Com-
monwealth can possess a single stripling, aged 20,
who has had even a part of that wretched training—
not two years from now, nor two years from the
date when the Bill becomes law, but two years
from the date of the proclamation whenever that
may happen. That is how things will be if the
law comes into force almost on the last day of the
year; if it comes into force at the beginning of
the year it will be about three years before Aus-
tralia will possess even one compulsorily (and
very badly) trained warrior of 20. It will be
either seven or eight years before it possesses one
such warrior aged 25, and he will probably
not have seen even a drill ground or fired off a
rifle for five years. And when allowance is made
for the districts where a tired Government suspends
the Act in order to save itself the trouble of
organisation, it seems that there may be mighty
few even of these badly-trained soldiers. Lastly,
it will be either about 13 years, or possibly about
14 years, before Australia possesses a single 25-
year-old soldier (that is to say, a single soldier of
an age at which a man becomes fit for arduous
campaigning) who has gone through the whole
course of training, poor as that course is. • It is to
be hoped the coming enemy, whoever he may be,
will prove a forbearing person, and one who is
content to wait.
■* * m •*
The Bill specifically provides for the exclusion
from the cadets and the Defence Force of persons
who have been “convicted of any disgraceful or
infamous crime ” and persons of “ notoriously bad
character.” This is a provision which calls for
deep thought. Certainly there is a good reason
why decent boys and men should not be required
to associate with the utterly depraved ; but the
idea of complete exemption as a reward for utter
depravity seems unusual. It would be under-
standable if the utterly depraved were compelled
every year to pay towards the cost of defence a
sum equivalent to the value in wages of the
number of days’ service which they owe to their
country, but which their country is unable to
accept from them. It would also be understand-
able if the utterly depraved were required to
train separately, and if the Legion of the Lost
was put in front on the day of battle so that it
might be shot first. But the idea of offering a
reward for wickedness is something out of the
common. The person who is too wicked for
training purposes should at least be disqualified
as a voter and a possible member of Parliament,
and be required to live outside the great cities so
that in his comparative loneliness he would have
fewer chances to contaminate his fellows.
* * * *
Again, we drop across this section in the Bill
prepared by the Apologetic Government:—
No employer shall prevent or attempt to prevent any
employee who is serving in the Cadets or Citizen Forces
from rendering the personal service required of him, or
in any way penalise, or attempt to penalise, any employee
for rendering such personal service, either by reducing
his wages or dismissing him from his employment or in
any other manner
Provided that this section shall not be construed to
require an employer to pay an employee for any time
when he is absent f rom employment for the purpose of
training.
It seems natural to ask why the employer should
not be compelled to pay the employee his wages
while he is absent for the purpose of training.
The employer escapes training himself, for that
business ends to all intents and purposes at the
age of 20, and the employer aged 20 or less is too
rare to be worth considering. Therefore, if the
middle-aged employer doesn’t pay his young
clerk or workman during the time the latter is
compulsorily absent learning how to defend the
employer’s property, what extra amount does
the middle-aged employer contribute towards
defence to make up ? bo far as can be
seen he contributes nothing extra. He isn’t
allowed to reduce his employee’s wages be-
cause the latter person belongs,, compulsorily, to
the defence forces; but in the next breath the Bill
says that he may dock him of 16 days wages per
annum, and if that isn’t a reduction it is hard to say
what it is. Then there is another direction in which
the Fused Government’s scheme is seriously in-
efficient. There is certainly a proviso that the
employer may not discharge his employee (aged
between 12 and 20) because under the new
arrangement of things the youth must be occasion-
ally absent at his own expense learning to defend
his boss’s life and property ; but that proviso is
not worth a rush. It is a mighty dull employer
who can’t find a perfectly feasible excuse for dis-
charging anybody any day of the week ; and
so long as the employee aged 18 years or must
have leave of absence in the public interest,
while the one aged 20 years and one month doesn’t
labor under that disability, it is safe to wager that
many a boss will find a whole lot of good reasons
for discharging the youth of 18 years or 19£. Yet,
while that youth’s position will be bad when he is
in a job, it will be much worse when he is looking
for one. There are any number of circumstances
why a perfectly well-conducted junior clerk or
junior artisan of 18 or 19| may find
himself jobless and in need of employ-
ment. In many quarters his chance against
the applicant aged 20 years and one day will be
practically nil, or if he does get employment it
will be at greatly reduced wages, and even these
reduced wages will be stopped while he is away
training. The employer js not allowed to dis-
charge a young man simply because he has to go
away to learn the military art, but he has every
permission to refuse to engage him. He isn’t
allowed to reduce his wages, but he may refuse to
engage him except at reduced wages. If Aus-
tralia adopted the plain, business-like Swiss
system, whereby the citizen has to train annually
from his 20th to his 32nd year, and to train in a
milder form from the age of 33 to that of 40, this
disability would not arise. No employer would
insist on his office-boy being 33 years of age, much
less 40 years of age ; he couldn’t afford it.
* • * *
The Fused Government’s defence proposals
seem to leave out any allusion to efficient training in
rifle-shooting. It is only reasonable that they
should, for with the baby rifle factory which
Joseph Cook proposes to construct it is unlikely
that there will ever be more than 60,000 service-
able, up-to-date weapons in the country. The
repair of old rifles will soon keep the factory so busy
that the output of new ones must drop very greatly,
and 60,000 is probably about the limit. Allowing
for the rapid wearing out of rifles in actual warfare
and the number that are broken, lost or left
behind on battlefields, that means that 60,000 men
could go into action feeling sure that the complete
breakdown of the whole scheme of defence wouldn’t
happen for about a month. It is reckoned that
Switzerland, with a considerably smaller popula-
tion than Australia, could on an emergency put
300,000 well-trained and perfectly-armed fighting
men in the field. Australia could do much more
except that: (1) It apparently won’t have more
than one rifle to eight men ; (2) the man
of 40 won’t be a trained man till near
the middle of this century, and even then he
will have had 20 years in which to forget
his training, and if he happened to have spent his
early years in a part of the country which was
exempt from the Act he won’t have been trained
at all; (3) even if he was trained he probably
never learned to shoot really well for want of
sufficient rifles to shoot with. To put the matter
shortly, it doesn’t seem as if the Fused Govern-
ment has the courage to make a really
serious effort at defence. It feels that there
is a demand for efficient defence. It feels
that military organisation is a great labor.
It feels also that the raising of money for efficient
defence is a great bore, and is liable to involve the
taxation of its old friend the big landlord. It
feels moreover (on this point it is solid) that it
wants to keep its job. So it has devised a
pretence which means hardly anything, and is
calculated to cost hardly anything, but which
makes sufficient show of amounting to something
to give its Fused billet a chance of holding out.
THE AMAZING FALSEHOODS APPA-
RENTLY CONTAINED IN N.S.W.
STATE STATISTICS.
Sceptical people begin to ask at times whether
Gregory Wade, Premier of N.S.W., isn’t over-
doing things a trifle in his desire to get the Federal
capital fixed in a dreary spot close to Sydney,
where it will be under the influence and domina-
tion of Wade’s Government, and where it will be
so near to the offices of the Freetrade, anti-Labor
and anti-Australian Sydney morning press (which
supports Wade) as to enable that press to run the
journalistic show thereabouts. For instance, we
find these statements by Wade in N.S.W. Han-
sard (pages 2083 and 2084; 16/9/’O9): —
We have always believed that in the Cotter River the
Commonwealth would have a source of water-supply
excelled by none in New South Wales—the territory lies
in a perfect network of streams and is, in fact, perhaps
THE BEST WATERED PART OF NEW SOUTH WALES. . . . The
Cotter is a catchment absolutely unique in New South
Wales.... The Chief Engineer for Harbors and Water
Supply made a report in the year 1907, and. that report is
very important for this reason. While the writer points
out that there had been no gaugings taken in the past, he
ascertained from local readings that the mean rainfall
OVER A PERIOD OF 12 TEARS WAS 38 INCHES.
Thus it seems, to begin with, that there were
no rainfall records in the Canberra district, yet a
careful inspection of the records for 12 years—the
ones which didn’t exist —showed an average fall
of 38in. Against this Government Meteorologist
Hunt, formerly of Sydney Observatory, in the
“ Official Year Book of the Commonwealth,
No. 2” (page 147), puts the average annual rainfall
of the Canberra district at 23 inches. And
as regards its position as the best-watered
part of N.S.W., Mr. John Trivett, Wade’s own
State employee, in the “N.S.W. Statistical
Register ” for 1907 (pages 731-732), furnishes some
interesting; reading. The following list gives the
average rainfall, according to Trivett. for all the
meteorological stations in the N.S.W. coastal
districts and the great tableland :
Inches of
rain per
annum.
COOMA (whence the rivers flow down to Canberra) 19
QUEANBEYAN (right alongside Canberra), Scone,
O'Connell and Bombala .. .. . .. 23
Jerry’s Plains, Muswellbrook, Bathurst and Cassiiis 24
Braidwood, Cowra, Sofala, Gundaroo and Yass .. 26
Mudgee, Douglas and Goulburn 26
Collector and Gulgong 27
Lake George 28
Bundarra .. .. .. 29
Singleton, Picton, Walcha and Carcoar .. ... 30
Inverell and Emu .. .. .. 31
Murrurrundi, Bega, Armidale, Glen Innes, Evers-
leigh and Crookwell 32
Pitt Town 33
West Maitland, Tenterfield and Eden 34
Maryland .. .. .. .. .. .. ~ 35
Moruya Heads 36
Bodalla and Orange .. .. .. .. .. 37
Mittagong, Nowra and Mount Victoria .. .. 38
Grafton, Morpeth and Moss Vale 39
Springwood .. .. .. .. .. .. ~ 41
Wingham and Wollongong .. .. .. .. 43
Casino and Seven Oaks 44
Taree 46
Newcastle .. .. . 47
SYDNEY 48
Kurrajong Heights . .. 60
Lismore .. .. .. .. 54
Port Stephens 55
Clarence Heads .. .. .. .. .. .. 56
Katoomba and Point Perpendicular 58
Port Macquarie * 62
KIANDRA (whence the waters flow down to Dal-
gety) 66
Wollongbar . .. 67
* * * *
These are the figures of Premier Wade’s own
official statistician, and it is a fair thing to ask
Wade what he is going to do about the matter.
Wade describes his precious Federal capital site
as being in the best-watered part of N.S. W. His
Official Statistician declares that in all the coastal
districts and the mountain country behind them
there is only one worse-watered place than Can-
berra, and that is the district from which the
waters run down towards Canberra. And in his
Canberra figures the Federal Statistician backs up
th« State officer. It might be added that even
west of the tableland and out towards the alleged
dry lands there are wetter spots than the amazing
place which Wade’s cussedness has selected for
the metropolis of Australia. Gunnedah has 25
inches of annual rainfall; Young, Narrabri and
Goonoo Goonoo each 26 inches; Quirindi, Wari-
alda and Albury, 28 inches ; Kyandra and Coona-
barabran, 30 inches; and Bingara 31 inches, against
Canberra’s 23. Against Wade’s clatter about
a 38-inch rainfall in the Canberra district
his own Statistician dumps down a 23-inch
record, and while Wade professes to quote some
authority who says there have been no records
taken in the past, his own Statistician publishes
the official records stretching many years back.
In 1902 the record at Queanbeyan, alongside Can-
berra, dropped as low as 11 inches, against Syd-
ney’s 43 inches; yet Sydney was solemnly warned
in that lamentable year not to water its lawn and
to be desperately economical with the fluid in its
bath ; and its gardens were a dusty spectacle.
• * ft ■*
But even Wade’s wild remarks about the well-
watered condition of Canberra were not, by a
long way, the most wonderful of his statements
on that exciting night when the Canberra job was
being shoved through the N.S.W. Assembly.
This statement appears in a perfectly casual way
on page 2089 of Hansard
Taking the number that could be supplied by gravita-
tion and pumping from these catchments, it will be seen
that there is enough water to keep going 1,761,160 people
at 100 gallons per head per day. So that really means
that water can be got from these areas sufficient to give
every man, woman and child in N.S.W. 100 gallons per
day. The figures seem almost fabulous, but they are
based on records and premises that cannot be disputed.
In other words, they seem to be based, in part at
least, on the assertion that Canberra has a 38in.
rainfall, when Wade’s own Statistician shows
23in. It is indeed an amazing calculation, for the
N.S.W. official statistics allege that Sydney
uses about 40 gallons of water per head
daily. And if the Cotter and Gudgenby
Creeks and their two little tributaries can
supply 1,761,160 people with 100 gallons of
water daily that means that on the average con-
sumption of Sydney they could supply all the
people of Australia. Yet they aren’t to be found
on the map. They aren’t mentioned in the
N.S.W. State Statistics. The Federal Statisti-
cian, though he devotes 8J pages of small type to
a list of Australian rivers, doesn’t allude to one of
them. It is a staggering situation. Australia is
supposed to be a dry country, yet it apparently
has rivers to throw away in such profusion that
this Canberra water system, capable, according to
Wade’s figures, of supplying all the population
of Australia, is not worth mentioning or noting
on the map. If water for a population eight
times as great as that of Sydney is lying around
loose in this casual fashion, why is Sydney so
much worried every now and then about its
supply? When two small creeks and two small
tributaries, situated in one of the driest parts of
eastern N.S.W., can meet the demands of all
Australia, there must surely be water enough in
Australia to drown the universe.
• * * *
This paper begins to have a faint suspicion that
Premier Wade is more of a wild and whirling
advocate than an impartial authority. As a case
in point —a little while ago one of his constituents
(a baker) was found guilty of making £l9O of
illegal profit out of his workmen by paying them
less than the legal rate of wages. He might have
been fined £750 ; he was really fined only £LSO, so
that he was allowed to make a profit out of his
wrong-doing. Yet. regardless of the fact that it
was a second offence, Premier Wade, on his own
responsibility, reduced his fine to £75, and thus
left him a larger profit out of his wrong-doing.
And when the action was called in question in the
House Wade taunted the Labor members with a
desire to get £75 extra for the Bakers’ Union, regard-
less of the fact that the Wade Government had re-


pealed the old law by which such fines went to
the unions. Also, when asked if an order had
been made for payment of the wages of which the
men had been illegally deprived, he expressed a
general sort of opinion that it had, though, as a
matter of fact, it hadn’t. A man of that sort
seems quite capable of mistaking a pint of water
for a river ; and The Bulletin, for one, expresses
the most profound disbelief in all his Canberra
statistics. They look too impossible. Why the
Labor members, with the McKye ease fresh in
their minds, professed to regard Wade’s water
statistics as infallible it is hard to say, unless they
wanted to believe them, and unless they were
also anti-Australians who desired in their hearts
to have a mean, wretched Federal capital in order
that its poverty might emphasise State import-
ance. Otherwise their attitude of profound faith
in Wade over this one matter seems utterly in-
com preh ensi ble.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Wrath of Pharaoh Junior.
The recent gathering of a Young Egyptian Con-
gress (the Young Egyptian is the natural corollary
of the Young Turk) to demand a Constitution is
another sign of the times. The Young Egyptian
threatens to be the same sort of trouble as the
Hindu home ruler, and probably there are more
like him to follow. Britain doesn’t know exactly
what to do with these people, for Bull’s Empire
is so new that there is no precedent to go upon.
It is a very new empire when you come to look at
it carefully, and the paint isn t dry yet. The first
Bull Empire reached its pinnacle in the days of
Henry 11., and was lost before the death of his
son John. The second one was longer a-building;
it reached the height of its glory in the reign of
Ceorgh 111., when the white settlers abroad
amounted to a fourth of the white population of
the King’s dominions. That second empire
was practically all lost by the time the Washing-
ton disturbance was over, for the Canadian
territory, which was almost all that remained,
was a mere speck then. After that a third—and
mostly black—empire was thrown together with
such amazing velocity that there has been hardly
anything like it since the sudden construction of
the gimcrack dominion of Macedonia. When
the first blast of conquest was over, and the smoke
had cleared away, and the dead had been buried,
Britain settled down to consolidate its possessions,
and it decided to educate its nigger and teach him
constitutional history and such like. Bull said
proudly that he was in India and such places, not
as a mere conqueror, but as a messenger of civili-
sation and progress. He wasn’t going to be a
coarse, unlettered despot, but an uplifting
and enlightening influence. He was resolved
to prove that conquest and empire and
white supremacy and such like were quite
compatible with education and upliftment;
and he held meetings at Exeter Hall, and said
that the Bible was the secret of England’s great-
ness. The success of his scheme did him proud
for a number of years, and seemed to justify his
policy. He was able to say with truth that he
was the only conqueror who was trying in a large
way to educate his nigger, and that, as a result, in-
stead of losing his nigger he had a better and surer
hold on him than any other conqueror had
on any other nigger. But the secret was that
the old nigger—the one who was there at the
time of the conquest, and who didn’t know he had
any rights save those his despot chose to give
him—wasn’t being educated along the new lines
because he was past education, and the young one
who _was being uplifted hadn’t grown up in
sufficient numbers to demand the self-governing
powers which are the priceless birthright of
a British citizen, etc. Now he is grown up
and he wants large self-governing powers; he
even wants to know why, being a British subject
the same as Bull himself, he shouldn’t have a
share in the government of the Empire—help to
govern Bull, in fact. The conquered Welsh-
man does it; why not the conquered Ben-
galee? To grant what he asks would bring
about the end of the Empire. To definitely
refuse it would signify that Britain had
settled down to be plain despot or autocrat—the
greatest despot on earth—and had thrown all the
beautiful Exeter Hall theories into the fire. It is
a difficult situation. Egypt, though British in
all reality, is still nominally a part of the
Turkish Empire. Turkey has j ust acquired a Con-
stitution, a general election, a Parliament and
full self-governing powers, and has got them
amid wild applause and encouragement from
Bull ; and it will be awkward if the
only part of old Turkey where absolut-
ism survives is the part held by Bull,
the Liberator and the great Constitutionalist.
The Turkish Parliament (established with loud
cheers from Bull) governs Western Asia, among
other places. Further on towards India is a
country governed by the Persian Parliament (more
cheers from Bull). The northern half of Asia is
governed more or less by the Russian Parliament
(great cheering from Bull and cries of “Long live
the Duma!” from Bull’s Prime Minister). Away
to the east is Japan, with a sort of Parliament
(much approved of by Bull). In among these places
is India, ruled despotically by Bull, the great
apostle of freedom and owner of “ The Mother of
Parliaments”—lndia, where people who want the
sort of Parliament so much approved of by Bull
in Turkey and Persia are described as “seditious”
and such-like adjectives. These things promise
heaps of difficulties. Bull has always overlooked
the fact, in his advocacy of Parliamentary govern-
ment, that he, and not the Czar nor the Sultan
nor the Shah, is the world’s boss despot; and
though he is a benevolent one, that fact may not
greatly help the matter. In this business Ketr
Hardik and such-like firebrands are strictly
logical; but then the situation is one which won’t
stand logic.
: ♦
The Old Civil Servant in N.S.W-
A PERSON whose Case calls for some sympathy is
the N.S.W. civil servant, State or Federal, who,
after many years’ toil on a moderate salary which
allowed a very small margin for saving, is thrown
out on a charge of old age, while he has yet; to all
appearance, many years of life still in"him. A
long while ago there was a Civil, Service Super-
annuation Fund in N.S.W., and a certain sum
was deducted from each officer’s salary towards
his pension. It was a callous sort of fund, for if
an official died before the retiring age his widow
and orphans had no claim on the fund whatso-
ever, and the deductions levied on the official’s
pay made it all the more difficult for him to save
something for his wife and little ones ; in fact, one
reason why the orphans often began to go hungry
the first month after their breadwinner passed out
was just that same Superannuation Fund. Still,
with all its drawbacks it amounted to something.
But bad times fell on the State after the bursting of
the Parkes-MoMillan borrowing boom, and
retrenchment became the order of the day. The
over-manned service began to be reduced, and
people whom the State had kept in its employ
till they were too old to learn anything else were
turned adrift. Of course, there was a certain
amount of compensation due, and by way of
making things easier for the Treasury the com-
pensation was charged in many cases to the
Superannuation Fund, which came about as close
to misappropriation of private money as anything
well could without somebody getting into gaol.
Later the Dibbs tariff was largely reduced, and
this made so great a gap in the Treasury that
still more reductions were called for in order to
save salaries. And the Government was up
against the alarming fact that the Civil Service
Superannuation Fund was nearly bankrupt—
largely by reason of the way its funds had been
misused in earlier days—and very soon the State
must either repudiate its debts or begin to
dig money out of the Treasury. It was a time of
“ sack’’—wholesale and retail. “Heads fell like
tiles,” to quote an old French revolutionist, before
the Tribunal of the Three Butchers, as some mem-
bers of the service called George Reid’s civil ser-
vice commissioners—the three men who were paid
large salaries to relieve the Government of the
odium of the dismissals. Of course, every dis-
missal meant one less contributor to the Fund,
and the Fund grew more and more insolvent. So
the civil servants were offered this option—they
might either stay on the Fund as before, or they
might withdraw and cease their contributions, in
which case the money they had paid in would not
be immediately returned to them, but would
accumulate to their credit at 3 per cent, simple
interest until they left the service. The 3 per
cent, was very like plain robbery, for the
Government couldn’t borrow anywhere else at
less than 3A 1 per cent. —in fact, it couldn’t borrow
even at 3£. The simple interest was just plain
robbery, for every savings bank gives compound
interest. Thus the man of 40 who had £lOO in the
Fund was offered £175 when he was turned out at
65, instead of the £236 6s. sd. to which he was
reasonably entitled. But, bad as the terms were,
a great many civil servants accepted them for two
reasons : (1) Successive Governments had muddled
the Fund into such a state of insolvency that they
thought, unless it got relief by compounding with
its creditors, the end might be repudiation, in
which case they might get nothing. (2) Many had
an idea during that reign of terror that the Tri-
bunal of the Three Butchers might select the men
who remained on the Fund for discharge, and
thus alleviate the Fund’s burdens in another way.
So a great number abandoned the pensions to
which they had been looking forward as a pro-
vision for their old age. Now many of these civil
servants—some still in the State service and some
transferred to the Federal service—are dropping
out under the wooden-headed regulation which
discharges a man, not because he is certified to be
past work, but because he has reached an age
which is three years younger than that of
Edward VII. —an age at which some men are
decrepid while others are in their prime. They
have a scrap of compensation money to draw ;
that is to say that the man who is cut adrift at the
age of 65 and has still 10 or 20 years of life in him.
can see his way for about two years ahead, and
the rest is a blank or an old-age pension. The
average civil servant’s salary is so small as to
make saving almost an impossibility, and besides
in his younger days the sight of what looked like
an assured pension ahead seemed to make it super-
fluous. Even at this late hour it looks as if some-
thing might be done to repair that partial
confiscation act of a dozen years ago.
*
Private Railway Enterprise and Indigestion.
THEcaseof Hauriman, theU.S. railway million-
aire, supplied a poor advertisement for the pri-
vate ownership of railways ; but at the same time
the man’s whole career furnished a very good
explanation why so many people clamor for
private railway enterprise. It isn’t because
the private system enables railways to be
built more extensively than public owner-
ship does, for the U.S. has no more
railway in proportion to population than Aus-
tralia has. It isn’t that it builds railways more
cheaply ; in fact, the U.S. private lines have cost
about 30 per cent, more for every mile than the
State lines of Australia have done. It isn’t
either that it supplies better and safer lines; inpro-
portion to the number of travellers and employees
the State lines of Australia rank very high in
the way of safety, while the butchery bill
on the more costly private enterprise lines
of the U.S. is a horror. But private enterprise
railways supply one long-felt want which State
railways never can. A State railway is a dull,
plodding, honest affair which sticks to its plain
brown job of hauling passengers and goods. A
private enterprise line hauls goods and passengers
too; furthermore, it supplies a tremendous and
exciting gamble. It is a huge combination of
poker, pak-a-pu, State lottery, Tattersall’s sweep,
dacoity, brigandage, bushranging, piracy, theft,
damnation and two-up on the high seas, "it is the
instrument for bull operations, bear raids, cor-
ners, pools, combinations and most of the other
greatswindles that flesh is heir to. It enables men
like Gould, Fisk, Vanderbilt, Harriman and
their kind to accumulate huge fortunes —at the
expense of others, for all the bulls, bears, corners,
pools, railway wreckings and so on don’t enable
one engine to go a mile an hour faster nor
one truck to carry an extra ounce of goods.
Naturally the Goulds, Vanderbilts, Jim Fisks,
Harrimans and .be other useless thieves profess
to regard private i 'ilway ownership as a semi-
divine institution, fcjo do the papers they control
and the papers which are afraid to offend them—-
which means practically all the papers. So do the
crowd of speculators who hope one day to be
Goulds, Vanderbilts and Harrimans or some-
thing dimly resembling them. As for the inarticu-
late millions who are robbed to make all these
railway millionaires, they can find no means of
expressing their views if they have views. Very
often they haven’t any views, having been taught
from infancy by papers bossed by men like Harri-
man to take it as a matter of course that the sys-
tem which creates men like Harriman is the- best
of all possible systems. Yet they are paying
for the system all the time. In Australia
and every other country which has State-
owned railways the people have to maintain the
men who build and repair the lines, the men who
make the rolling stock, and the men, from the
general manager down to the gatekeeper and
cleaner, who run the machine. In the U.S. they
have to maintain all these and the regular railway
stock gamblers and speculators as well. These
people are numerous and costly, and the evil that
they do lives after them. Harrtman’s last hours
were disturbed by the need to make arrangements
to prevent a huge gamble taking place immedi-
ately after his death in the £600,000,000 worth of
railway scrip which he “controlled.” The death
of a U.S. railway monarch is always supposed to
be the signal for a financial revolution in which all
manner of people who aren’t monarchs get killed.
It is said that a combination of other railway
millionaires has prevented the gigantic flurry that
was expected; but it may yet prove that the
report is wrong. It only takes a week of sudden
and furious gambling in railway stocks and
banks, trust companies and all mariner of institu-
tions burst gaily, and quiet, humble people who
never did a stock gamble in their lives see
their savings vanish unaccountably and find
themselves starting the world afresh. It is a
wild, feverish business which fills the country
with corrupt newspapers, corrupt law courts
(the corruption of U.S. law courts is a world’s
disgrace), ill-built railways thrown together in
haste because the sooner they are built the sooner
can the gamble commence, and millionaires whose
digestions are ruined because, in the hurry to
make stupendous heaps of wealth which they can
never use, they hadn’t time to eat properly
and had to bolt their food. It is a painful tiring to
see a useless bald-headed gambler with £20,000,000
more than he could ever hope to require,
dying prematurely after his stomach has made
his life a misery for 20 years, and it is especially
sad when there is no national benefit and
a vast amount of national injury to show
for the tragedy. Private railway ownership
made the Standard Oil Trust, and almost
every other Trust that the U.S. possesses,
and it also made most of the country’s millionaires
and great brigands. It has led to the decay of
the country’s business morals, and has introduced
a feverish attitude of mind which has found its
outward expression in the quick lunch. There-
fore Australia does well to make its railway sys-
tem a plain, business-like hauler of people and
goods, to leave out the gambling element, and to
chew, its food carefully thrice a day and its beer
occasionally.
The Parson and Race Suicide.
Whkn there arises some statement which is so
wildly impossible that it staggers time and space
and makes reason totter upon its throne, there is
always a fair chance that a parson was the cause
of it. As a case in point a deputation, consisting
of old pious Balfottr, of the House of Rich
Landlords, and a number of parsons, lately waited
on Premier Weary, in Melbourne, and demanded
a tremendously comprehensive law to deal with
abortionists and sellers of “preventives.” In-
cidentally :
Rev. E. S. Hughes said the Chief Commissioner of
Police had told him that he knew of one woman who
boasted that she had successfully treated 2000 young
girls and women, and another who claimed 3000 suc-
cesses. The Royal Commission in N.S.W. had secured
evidence that another woman had been responsible,
directly and indirectly, for a million lives.
It was practically equal to stating that this one
imaginary female had, directly or indirectly,
practised abortion, or something equivalent
thereto, three times on every girl and woman of
child-bearing age in N.S.W. Yet the parson was
apparently not in the least degree embarrassed.
Premier Weary hinted that it was a fool of a
statement, but he promised cordially to do every-
thing the deputation asked. And this is one of
the things that Balfour, M.L.0., as spokesman
of the deputation, asked Weary to do :
To absolutely prohibit any person from . . . advocating
the restriction or limitation of human offspring.
If that proviso becomes law The Bulletin hopes
to arrange for the spending of a little spare cash
on the prosecution of some rich and pious squatters
—members of the House of Rich Landlords, if
possible—when they advertise for a married
couple “without encumbrance.” That act is 20
times more villainous than merely advocating the
limitation of human offspring; it amounts to a
declaration that the squatter will inflict the
heaviest penalty in his power unless there is com-
plete abolition of offspring. Not only should this
sort of thing be illegal, but it should be a
punishable offence if an employer of adult male
labor has more than a certain proportion of child-
less people in his service, the inference being that
he secretly gives preference to childless people,
and thus suppresses the birthrate surreptitiously.
How much “prevention” and abortion arise
because a careworn little woman dare not become
a mother lest Balfour’s friend, the “ without
incumbrance” squatter, should throw her and her
husband and her infant out on the highway, no.
one knows, but the evil must be considerable.
Balfour, M.L.C., and his flock of servile
preachers carefully avoided any allusion to this;
aspect of the case ; but if the proposed Bill passes,
every effort will be made to see that it is alluded
to by somebody.
«,
An Attempt to Make Bricks Without Clay.
The Inter-State Commission Bill, which Customs
Minister Best dropped with a heavy thud before
the Senate a few days ago, attempts a great deal
more than it will be able to do. It provides for a
Commission of three, Ministerially appointed for
a term of seven years. These three are to adjudicate
in matters relating to trade and commerce, and with
regard to alleged unfair discrimination on State
railways; to generally oversee production and
exchange ; to supply information as to trade mar-
kets abroad, and to improve and extend Australian
industries ; to supervise the working of the tariff
and advise as to inconsistencies therein ; to run a
Federal Labor bureau and draw up a scheme for
insurance against unemployment; and, finally,
to adjust divergencies between industrial con-
ditions in the several States in accordance
with powers to be delegated by the State Parlia-
ments, as talked about at the recent Secret Con-
ference. The Commissioners will have enough to
do, if they do it properly; but what ought to be;
their chief job—the regulation of industrial con-
ditions as between the several States —is one they
are not at all likely to be allowed to do properly,
even if they feel that way. What likelihood i«;
there, for instance, of Victoria’s House of Fat hand-
ing over the control of the Wages Board system,
and the fixing of a minimum wage to these'
Commssioners—responsible only to the Australian;
Parliament—when, on the very day that the Bilk
was introduced, this House refused a Wages;
Board to a highly-protected, but grossly-sweated,.
Victorian industry. And does anyone think the'
House of Dodery will be in a hurry to hand over
the control of Tasmania’s low-wage industries to<
a body whose first act would probably be to raise
wages to the Victorian and New South Wales
standard ? But, even supposing the Bill were
passed and powers to regulate industry were
delegated to the Commissioners by all the States,
it would only njake the present confusion
worse confounded unless they were given exclusive
power. Recently the enginemen employed in the
freezing industry claimed improved conditions
from their employers, and went before the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court. After much argu-
ment an agreement was arrived at which was
made an award of Court. It included, among
other items, the payment of ordinary rates for
Sunday and holiday work. Now, however, it
is recollected that under the Victorian law the
Board for that trade has fixed time-and-a-half as
the correct pay for Sunday work ; and the Chief
Secretary (State Premier Murray) and the Fac-
tories’ Inspector promise to prosecute any em-
ployer who breaks the State law. Certainly, the
Constitution Act provides that a Federal law shall
override a State law which conflicts with it; but, in
th e wood workers’ case, th e Hi gh Cou rt Bench stated
that the Federal Arbitration Court had no power
to override the Victorian Wages Boards. The
creation of still another body will only add to
this confusion. The only feasible way to meet
the difficulty is to hand over the whole regulation
of industries to the Federal Parliament; but as
that is exactly what this Bill fails to do, and
what the State Insects wouldn’t agree to do, the
measure necessarily fails of its chief intention—-to
adjust divergencies between industrial conditions
in the several States.
«
The Peril of the Lascar.
Reuter sent the following message a few days
ago:—
London, Friday Afternoon.—The Natal liner Umhlali
went ashore on Cape Point during Thursday night. The
weather at the time was calm, with a little fog.
The first boat to leave, with 13 passengers, capsized;;
but all scrambled back, except a baby.
The other boats headed seawards. Owing to the refusal
of the Lascars to row, the passengers and crew had to
bale continuously with boots, hats and biscuit tins.
This is the fourth instance that the writer has en-
countered during the last month or so of Lascars
playing up at sea. It tends to explode one
of the last remaining arguments favorable, from
the travelling public’s point of view, to the em-
ployment of niggers aboard passenger ships. For
years it has been contended by the black labor
shipping cos. that, whatever his other demerits,
the Lascar is the ideal man for discipline.
It is true that, in . various tight sea-
corners in the past, the Lascar has behaved
well—for a Lascar. When, about a decade ago,
the P. and O. ship China hit that portion of’
On the Road to Jericho.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Council of Churches has never hesitated to do what
it could when it had been appealed to in regard to any
question that had been put before it in the interest of the
working classes.— llev. Dr. Bevan, Melbourne.
And by chance there came down a certain priest that
way; and when he saw him, he passed by on the other
side. —Luke x.,81.
It is written : On the road between Jerusalem of
old
And Jericho, a certain man was plundered of his
gold.
For he fell among fierce robbers—’mid the syndi-
cates of yore.
fjich as nowadays, thank God, distress the
troubled earth no more.)
They robbed and stripped and wounded him, and
left him where he lay—
Left him all faint and bleeding nigh to death ;
and went their way.
(And who’ll deny those robbers justified them-
selves therein?
For, mark ye, Private Enterprise is just as old as
Sin.)
On the road to Jericho
Mark the stricken one.
Moaning in his agony,
Prone beneath the sun.
Prone beneath the blazing sun,
Naked and alone,
Bleeding from a score of ivounds,
Stricken to the bone.
Now his tossing arms lie still;
Now his moans grow faint.
Is there none to succor him —
Publican or saint l
Publican or Pharisee —
Are none passing by
On the road to Jcricho ?
Is he left to die l
And ’tis written : Now a certain priest beheld
him where he lay—
Looked on the groaning sufferer and—went upon
his way.
And after him a Levite came; to God he uttered
praise.
And hurried by the stricken man with shocked,
averted gaze.
Aye, priest and Levite passed him by ! And why
should either stay ?
They had not been appealed to, and they simply
went their way.
Were the question put before them, they had
stayed—’tis surely so—
And tended that poor sufferer, but—how were
they to know ?
On the road to Jericho —
Hurry, hurry, priest!
’Twere a sin vjert thou away
From, the saintly feast.
Haste thee. Levite, tarry not.
At the Temple waits
Holy work for thee to do ;
Haste thee to the gates.
God will guard the stricken one.
Leave it all to Him.
(Now the blood dries on his wounds.
Now his eyes grow dim.)
Yet — ah. tell it! Bare the shame —
Save the name of Man.'
On the road to Jericho
One Samaritan !
Oh, ye fallen by the roadside, listen, are ye over-
proud ?
Lo, when priest or Levite passes, call him, call to
him aloud. •
Tell him ye are naked, plundered, wounded ; he
will surely come.
But, my brothers, O, the pity ! Pity ’tis your
wounds are dumb!
Could their gaping mouths call to him, mayhap
even he would pause;
Leaving Churchianity and Council for a nobler
cause;
Leaving dogma, sect and schism, wrangles with
his fellow priest,
E’en to bring one sip of water to the folk He
called “ the least.”
On the road to Jericho—
‘ ‘ Voices call ‘ Make way ! ’
See, the Bishop’s carriage comes;
He’s in haste to-day.
He s in haste to tend a Prince.
Let the good man through,
He is lordly; he is rich .. .
Not like me or you.
He’ll "‘consider” your appeal.
He’s no time to waste ! ”
O, despised Samaritan,
Haste thee hither, haste !
Priest and Levite pass along,
Bishops go their ways,
On the road to Jericho—
As in olden days.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street,
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
V FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 Ceorgre Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
*
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Arabia which abuts on the Straits of Bab-el-
Mandeb, the savages employed on her acquitted
themselves satisfactorily. They didn’t rush the
boats, or refuse duty, or lie down in a panic-
stricken state and call upon Allah to deal with
the situation. The nigger-employing cos. have
been pointing admiringly to that one amazing
circumstance ever since. It never struck them to
mention that the white quarter-masters and
stewards of the China also took the catastrophe in
calm, orderly fashion ; and still less that it was
probably the moral influence of their example
which stood to the men of inferior race in their
hour of trial. They never anticipated the
time when the Lascar would get out of
hand in the disciplinary sense, and be
transformed into a good deal of a menace
both on land and at sea. Yet this time has come.
The trouble with the cos. that continue to employ
the Lascar seems to be that he knows too much.
He reads the vernacular press of his country, or
listens, with his wits sharpened by an education
which has been forced on him, while a friend or
relative reads it to him. He bore no love at any
time for his white boss, but he used to fear him-
with that fear which in the nigger is a kind of
bastard brother to respect. The dread which the
last generation of Lascars bore for the white
sahib is a rare quantity in the genera-
tion that goes down to the sea in ships
to-day. The Babu lawyers who run the news-
papers which the poorer-class Indians patronise
have learned enough in London to be able to con-
vince their readers that the personal mana of the
Briton is a myth: and that if a black man is kicked
by a white overlord he may proceed against the
latter for assault, and that if he is swindled out of
wages or what not he may get restitution and
possibly damages. It was never claimed for the
old-time Lascar that he possessed any points as
an independent mariner with an individuality of
his own ; but he was held to compensate for this
by having many of the most valuable qualities of
the slave or the ox. Of yore he went under all
circumstances blindly and fatalistically where he
was told, and stayed there till he got the order
to move. When the order came, whether
it was to lower away boats or women
or children, or to row or swim or sink,
he mostly obeyed, if only for the reason that
he had as much lost the habit of questioning
or rebelling or combining with his kind as the
inmates of an asylum. That phase has passed,
and it hasn’t been replaced by the sense of
chivalry and decency which makes the white a
reliable standby in time of stress. And so when
the Lascar-manned steamer gets into trouble now-
adays, the discolored one “ behaves badly,” and
tragedies occur. The Lascar’s incurable habit of
pilfering ; his passion for aged, disease-infested
linen ; his dirt and his unmentionable immorali-
ties have always combined to make him ah un-
savory ship-board associate; but he has been
reckoned safe, hitherto, because he was docile.
He isn’t even that any more. It looks as though
the day were near when the level-headed adven-
turer abroad will no more dream of patronising a
ship which carries black labor than he will think
of patronising one which doesn’t carry a wireless
telegraphic installation.
+
A German Professor, who has been studying
“ Australian economic conditions,” complained at
Fremantle on his way home of the difficulty of
getting reliable information :
For instance, Senator St. Ledger had written a book on
Socialism in Australia, and he had not the slightest
hesitation in saying it was an entirely misleading produc-
tion. Throughout, Senator St. Ledger invariably refers
to the Labor party as a “ revolutionary Socialist ” party.
He could not understand such nonsense being written by
any responsible person, much less by a member of the
Federal Senate.
There are a great many things in Australia that
the person from the continent of Europe cannot
reasonably be expected to understand. It is easy
enough, however, when you know the ropes.
First, there are certain daily papers which per-
sistently call the Labor party a party of revolu-
tionary Socialists; second, there are certain dull-
witted fools who believe it; third, there are certain
knaves who profess to believe it. Yet there isn’t
a revolutionary in all the Labor party. Even
Tom Mann never saw a revolution ; wouldn’t
know a barricade from a heap of firewood ; and
hasn’t so much as jostled a policeman in anger
during all his days. The daily papers wouldn’t
know a revolution if they saw one, and
Senator Sledger couldn’t tell the thing from
a vegetable-cart if he met it in the street.
He is only in the position of the small
boy with a popgun in his hand and a
penny shocker in his pocket, who darkly bids the
other small boy to walk warily because Black
Buffalo, the Injun miscreant, is about with his
band, and they are in the greatest danger—just as
Mr. Sledger is from the Labor revolutionaries.
And the other small boy—the one with the tin
sword—answers hoarsely that they will die fight-
ing, just as Mr. Sledger is going to combat the
Labor revolutionaries to the bitter end. Sledger
on one side and Mann on the other are painful
evidence of the injurious effects of scalp-hunting
literature on a certain class of mind.
“Bildad” : To what purpose were all these
maudlin misrepresentations about Bent? They
could do him no good. The moral effect of them
on the public was undoubtedly bad. seeing that
they invited admiration for a repulsive type of
successful pusher, and gave the liedirect to honest
Truth. The late Bent never had any of the
“eloquence” that has been talked about, rough or
otherwise. He never “ moved ” his precious con-
stituents in Brighton, save as a jobber appealing
to the selfishness of his hearers. His speeches
Were rambling displays of garrulity—witless asser-
tions of an enormous self-conceit, and his manner of
delivering them was dull at the best, or clownish
when not dull. His “ big heart,” “ generous dis-
position,” and “love of his country” are the
fictions of politicians of his kidney who hope to
have as much said of their own unworthy selves
when they pass out. Bent, the land-boomer,
always trying to make money by hook or crook,
could be generous with the public money when it
camb to a matter of finding a fat billet for a loose
woman or a notorious ex-convict. But when it
was a Parliamentary question years ago of making
a grant to Marcus Clarke’s widow, the loudest
opponent of the proposal was generous, big-
hearted Bent, the noble patron of illiterature and
the swine arts.
Tasmania has been looking hard at some figures
which have been handed to the Assembly on the
motion of Labor-member Jensen. From about
the middle of 1906 onwards, it seems, Chief-
Justice Dodds has been buying land at Branxholm
and thereabouts; and now the Branxholm-
Scottsdale railway has been authorised, and some
of Chief Justice Dodds’ newly-purchased land has
been resumed. In fact, so much of Chief Justice
Dodds’ land has been resumed that of £4481 paid
altogether for compensation, his Honor gets
£1730; and, further, it appears, two stations—
Branxholme and Ringarooma—are to be built on
portions of his land, to the great annoyance, no
doubt, of a Judge, who naturally would want
peace even more than pence. Of course, the de-
cision to build the line has boomed land at Branx-
holm and thereabouts, so that it is said to fetch
about 20 times what it did a few years ago ; and it
is therefore possible that the Chief Justice’s land
is now worth what the State has got to pay for it.
But, as the Chief Justice would no doubt remind
the assessors if he got the chance, Tasmania was
once so mercilessly fleeced that in 1884 it passed
an Act which nearly everybody else appears to
have conveniently forgotten, providing that when
land is resumed for any railway, etc. . . .
The compensation payable shall not exceed what would
have been payable if the value of such land had been
assessed 12 months before the passing of the Act author-
ising the construction of such work.
It ought to be tolerably easy to ascertain what
was the value of the land 12 months before the
Branxholm Railway Act was passed—probably,
in fact, the Chief Justice can tell from his own
purchases; and if the Chief Justice has now been
offered more than that value (possibly because the
responsible persons overlooked the law of 1884),
there doesn’t seem to be anything to prevent him
sitting as a sort of Court of Appeal, and review-
ing the compensation awards so far as his own
estate is concerned. He is the head of the Depart-
ment whose special job it is to see that laws are
not overlooked ; and if one has been overlooked
in this case, no doubt the Chief Justice will put
things right. Meantime, however, a select com-
mittee has been asked for; though, if a select
committee finds out much, it will be quite a new
experience for the Speck. Still, it might
well try—for many a select committee has
turned loose in a much less interesting paddock.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her. Majesty’s “ The King- of Cadonia.”
Theatre Royal “ Jack and Jill.”
Criterion “ The Taming of the Shrew.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Catch of the Season.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
King’s “ Gipsy Jack.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
Athenaeum Hall Tait’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium. Ice Skating.
♦
That melodious fowler (or should it be
fowleress ?) Amy Castles has snared splendid
audiences for the whole of her five fine concerts in
Sydney. The soprano’s star number on Saturday
night was “Bel Raggio,” the beautiful “ray of
hope” aria that Rossini’s opera queen Semiramade
sings to her soldier lover. Otherwise Miss
Castles was sparing of the operatic, the music in
which she scores so highly. Foote’s plaintive
“ Irish Folk Song ” was the encore that allayed
the enthusiasm aroused by the Babylonian Queen’s
passionate love melody. “The Last Rose of
Summer ” drooped and died exquisitely on the
singer’s lips, and the dancing and singing effect
of her rendering of a villanelle was another
charming item. Mr. Nicholas Gehde accompanied
the singer; he deserves a posy all to himself
for his playing to that last song. He had come
in a hurry and had had but one rehearsal with
Miss Castles. Pianist Sykes was put out of the
running by the awful weather and a cold. Mr.
Anderson Nicol’s Wagnerian contribution from
“Lohengrin” and his beloved ballads—beloved
also by the majority of the audience—were good
hearing. “Four Jolly Sailors” and “Off to
Philadelphia,” encores both, by Mr. Peter Dawson,
were tumultuously received. His programmed
numbers included Pinsuti’s “’Tisl ’’and “Rip
Van Winkle,” but to make up for the saddening
“plop plop ” of the rain, his hearers were deter-
mined to be as jolly as they might. Young
flautist Amadio and pianist Biisst lent their
efficient aid, and then the audience departed
reluctantly into the muddy night.
** * *
“The King of Cadonia” continues pro-
sperously at the old Sydney address, and there,
barring tire, earthquake, or the materialisation of
the long forecasted Menace of Socialism, he pro-
poses to abide during the festive season before us.
** * #
The Palace opened its stage murder
season last Saturday night, when George Mar-
lowe’s co. unrolled the drama of “Married to the
Wrong Man.” There are large rents in the
web of the plot, and the feet of improbability
stick through in several places ; but, on the whole,
the play is the best seen in the Pitt-street house
this week. Its story has hardly any vestige of
originality, but in this kind of piece originality
might be rather a drawback than otherwise.
The narrative contains drink, crime and
war. Ruth, the beautiful daughter of a
wandering and aristocratic mother, has grown up
in the care of a disagreeable publican, whom she
regards as her father. She is a good girl; all
stage girls named Ruth are good. Round her
swanlike neck she wears the key of a cash-box,
which was left by her mother in the pub before
that luckless parent sought refuge on the
floor of the river. The box is supposed
to contain documentary proof of Ruth’s claim
to endless wealth, and the fool of a publi-
can actually marries his fool-villain son to
the girl before he brings forth the receptacle and
demands the key from the amazed woman. In
all these years he hadn’t had sense enough to
burgle the box. This is one of the weak parts of
the story, and it is made more conspicuous by the
lamentable fact that the cash-box provided by
the management doesn’t seem to have a lock. It
may have one, but the writer didn’t notice any lock.
The deluded villain-husband has deserted from his
regiment on the eve of its departure for the front,
in order to marry the supposed heiress; and, after
being shamefully deserted by his father, he is pro-
ceeding to smite his wretched bride when the
hero arrives and knocks him off his feet. He
rises considerably shaken, and offers to renounce
all right to the lady for £l5 cash. The hero
agrees to the price and hands over several
coins which sound like Then the hero and
the funny man go out to South Africa to burn
farms and steal poultry at a tremendous rate.
* * * *
The second act opens in a garden in which
the hero, in a beautiful uniform, finds Ruth wait-
ing for him and wearing a new dress. Into her
willing ear he pours the incorrect rumor that her
husband has been killed and eaten by birds of
prey. So they are married —only to be interrupted
after the guests have departed by the man who
sold her for s|d. Base insinuations are made by
the s£d. husband, and the hero, being noble and
chuckle-headed, hesitates for one tragic moment,
and glares doubtfully at his wife. The lady
passionately protests her innocence and falls at
his feet stricken dumb. Act 111. is chiefly
occupied with the dumb woman’s abduction from a
private hospital and her incarceration in a garret
belonging to a dreadful person. Whilst there she
overhears her husband and his father plotting
to slay the hero. When the murderers have gone
forth, she sets Sergeant Manners on the trail by
writing the intelligence on the wall with a piece
of chalk. He goes to the rescue and is killed
en route , but he doesn’t die in vain. The play
totters to a happy conclusion of the ordinary kind
—the kind which even a native bear knows by
heart.
* * * m
Miss Nellie Fergusson as Ruth is com-
mendable, but her blood-curdling shrieks are
rather too numerous. Kenneth Hunter makes a
fairly good struggle with the part of Jack the
hero-all Jacks are heroes in melodrama; and
there are worse villains than Hilliard Vox. How-
ever, the company in general can stand till
next week. No one can take an unbiassed view
of the company on the first night of a melodrama.
It is necessary to wait till some of the horror*
have blown over and the dead policeman has been
removed.
“ COURT REVELS ” AT SYDNEY “NASH."
The Serio sings of Bertie.
The Stage Society produced Gr. B. Shaw’s
“Candida” and “ How He Lied to Her Hus-
band,” at the Palace, on Saturday afternoon.
It is the admirable ambition of the members of
this society to popularise a literary class of play
in Sydney. What are their chances of success?
They seem, on last week’s form, to be slight. Of
course, there are large bodies of people here who
are capable of according sympathetic con-
sideration to Shaw’s philosophy and humor;
certain it is, however, that the audience which
transpired at the Palace last week wasn’t
of the number. And yet, take it for all in all, it
was a fairly representative Sydney audience. A
pained aspect informed the majority of it what
time the deplorable Burgess aired his low-wage
theories. The prevailing sentiment seemed to be
that the propounder of such incontrovertible views
oughtn’t to be allowed to clothe them in bad
grammar. The only cleric of the Established
Church who has publicly expressed in N.S.W.
political convictions approximating to those of the
liberal-minded Rev. James Morell (the cleric in
question did the mad deed at Dubbo during the last
Federal elections) was cut by most of his flock, as
a result, and impelled to flee in disorder to Eng-
land, where he has abided ever since. Assume,
then, that on the economic side the well-to-do of
N.S.W. (who are the people that make the
big churches, theatres, etc., paying concerns)
have scant time for Shaw. Remains his
social satire. Is it likely to carry any
deeper appeal locally than his opinions on
industrial problems ? Seemingly not. When
in “How he Lied to Her Husband” Bumpus
claimed proudly that his wife was a social leader
in South Kensington, the audience hearkened in
awed silence. And so throughout. Both the
laugh and the hush arrived, disconcertingly, in
the wrong place.
11 *
And there is another viewpoint. Shaw’s
aggressive anti-sentimentalism is revolting to the
minds of conventional playgoers of all classes,
everywhere. That Sydney theatre-frequenters
are, in the mass, warm romanticists is indicated
by the plays on which they have set the seal of
their approval in the past. Shaw delights to
assail “ attitudes,” whether heroic, erotic or reli-
gious—the identical attitudes which a thousand
melodramas have schooled habitual playhouse
patrons in thiscitv to revere. Nowhere does hedo
this more vigorously than in the pieces which the
Stage Society selected for presentation last Satur-
day. Taking in “ Candida,” his favorite medium
—a charming, mainly because wholly-unaffected,
young woman of the world —he uses her to expose
a couple of male characters for the asses they are.
Subjected to the test of a crisis, Morell appears,
not as a strong. Heaven-sent priest, but as a rather
feeble and selfish citizen with nothing abnormal
about him save his orator’s gift, his energy and his
animal magnetism. Itis characteristicthatMorell s
foil, a decadent who threatens hysterically to kill
himself if he is struck, is suffered to score dis-
tinctly in the end. Much is forgiven the degene-
rate lad by his creator, because he sees through
and abhors the priggish cant which the normal
stage patron hereabouts best loves. No; in the
light of last Saturday’s production, this paper is
fain regretfully to opine that there is not a
public in Sydney for works of the “Candida”
sort. “ Arms and the Man ” might go well on
the score of its incident and broad comedy.
“Captain Brassbound's Conversion” would be a
certain draw if staging and other difficulties could
he got over ; and so on. The uneventful Shawian
play of pure psychology is. apparently, outside
the orbit of audiences which are not sophisticated
enough to sit tamely by while sentiment is jeered
at (even assuming they grasp that that is what is
occurring), and which, in the nature of things,
don’t comprehend the topical allusions and jargon
of modern London.
Much of the acting in both plays reached
a high level. Mrs. T. H. Kelly’s Candida was
the real woman—tender, quietly-humorous, in-
stinct with tolerance and sanity and clear-sighted-
ness. Her long speech at the end of the third act
was an object-lesson in the art of graceful,
natural diction. Eugene was played by Leslie
Casey, and he deserves a cheering word
for his intrepidity in attacking a part from
which battalions of experienced professional
actors have recoiled. He made the versifier —who
is about the most incredible of all Shaw’s char-
acters —something resembling a human being,
which was an achievement in itself. F. Arnold
played Morell soundly, and W. L. Vincent
(Burgess), A. Champion (Lexy) and Miss Bestic
(Prossy) were good. In “How He Lied to Her
Husband,” Mrs. Buhrow was a spirited and
amusing Aurora, and the Bumpus of H. Hinds
had points of merit. Gilbert • Nathan as the
lover was a shade stilted.
* * * *•
The Criterion has been “resting” since
last Saturday night, when the “Cinderella”
season came to a temporary halt. The lady got a
rousing send-off considering she is to be back
again in a little over two months. The aged cus-
tom of throwing bouquets to express approval was
modified for this night only, and, instead of
garden produce, animal food was projected at the
players. William Cromwell
scored a plethora of meat pies ;
also carrots and other of the
herbs in which the loathly Mon-
gol specialises—all in the way
of friendliness. Meanwhile
those of the audience who had
arrived without provender shook
rattles, and blew trumpets,
saxeliorns, bugles, foghorns,
flutes, oboes, cornets, clar-
ionets and dog, police and
penny whistles. The few who
owned no musical instruments
sang the choruses lustily, and
then encored themselves with
much enthusiasm. After a
while Miss Ruth Lincoln fainted. Possibly
she is of TJ.S.A. extraction, and feared that
a lynching was about to transpire. All ended
peaceably, however, at about the mystic hour of
quarter to 12. Next Saturday the amazingly-
successful Asche-Brayton co. opens at the. Clark-
e playhouse, which has been .reno-
vated for the occasion.
** * *
Miss Lucille Benstead’s debut in Sydney
last week quite justified the flattering things said
of the girl from Alice Springs by the people who
had heard her at Mr. Steffani’s studio. Hers is a
warm, rich soprano, flexible and, of course, fresh-
fresh as a spring morning. When the young
singer’s voice is fully developed she ought
to take a good place as a dramatic soprano.
It promises in that direction, though at pre-
sent it is on the light side. The girl sings
with brains, and got through a severely-exacting
programme in a manner that quite justified the
opinion of the committee of Westralians that
guaranteed her Sydney studies.
** * *
Mr. Laurance Philip, after the long,
tedious leisure of a nervous breakdown, comes
again before an audience at Sydney Y.M.C.A.
next Saturday night. The distinguished Godow-
sky follower promises several gems plucked from
the classic composers. The Sonata Glazoonow
sounds especially hopeful to the ultra elect, and
Chopin’s Berceuse will be another sweet morsell
Well-known melodists are to give assistance with
voice and instrument.
The return of that old favorite, “Jack
and Jill,” to Sydney Royal, is making for much
joy among the kiddies of the Ma State metropolis.
The pantomime is not blessed with much men-
tality ; but, like a pretty girl without wit, its
beauty makes it agreeable for an hour or so. The
butterfly ballet is a dream of dainty legs, a revel-
ation of feminineloveliness of the sylph order. The
babies’ ballet is very pretty, and the rigid
attention to business on the part of a little toddler
of about years is a great streak. It certainly
seems no "hardship to that small child ; but all
the same the infant ought to be in bed, with
her teddy bear roosting at the foot of the cot
and some bread and milk in close proximity.
The success of “Jack and Jill” proves that
the people love spectacular shows; for, barring
the two pictures of Australia’s navy in 1909 and
1915 there is nothing in it to appeal to the adult.
But on .Saturday night that picture of the \yater
crowded with mighty battleships flying the blue
cross banner of Australia roused an audience,
which consisted largely of the children of Israel,
to wild enthusiasm. This seems to suggest that
there is an opening for a good patriotic Aus-
tralian play.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films lor hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
This is not merely an assertion of onr own, hut
each bottle bears the Government analysis
showing that Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has
been officially declared free from all narcotics.*
V a,ha ''o,
♦♦ golf.
FISHING—RIVER f
and DEEP SEA. *
SURF=BATHING. BOATING. e
5i Launch meets train at Nowra 5
terminus. Lunch on board.
VS Telegrams—MANACEß,
CREENWELL POINT.
POIHA
West’s Pictures are back at Sydney Glaci-
arium, and the crowd that used to howl and curse
outside the doors of the Palace when it read the
notice, “ House Pull,” can now find seating ac-
commodation and rest at the larger building. A
gigantic audience turned up for the opening night,
in spite of sleet, rain, wind, slush and dust from
Heaven knows where. But West’s were in
trouble. The electric lighting apparatus had
broken down, and the management had to turn
away about £3OO into a night that wasn’t fit for a
dog to be out in—let alone such a heap of money.
** * *
At the Lyceum, one of the best fake pic-
tures seen for some time is the “Egyptian Mys-
tery.” The excavator among the ruins of Egypt
sends home to his wife an amulet belonging to
some bowled-out Pharaoh. He tells her
that it endows the wearer with the power
of making whatever is touched disappear.
She is warned to be careful. Laughing at
the idea, she fastens it round her neck,
and inside 35sec. half the furniture, her pet
dog, her best friend, the Persian pile carpet, and
a few other things have vanished for ever. She
escapes, leaving the dreadful thing on the floor.
The cook picks it up and fastens it to the watch-
chain of Denis, from the laundry. He kisses the
donor, and she vanishes. Then the rest of the
furniture, a wall, Denis’s horse and cart, and
other things disappear. He rushes through, the
land madly, and everything he touches vanishes,
till he becomes worse than an invading army. If
one wants to become reconciled to the present
mode in ladies’ hats a trip to the Lyceum will do
the trick. The headgear of nigh upon 600 years is
shown on the living, smiling girl; and the present
hat is not the moslT hideous bv far. The films of
Orpheus are a fake, as in the pictures it is shown
that he manages to bring Eurydice back to earth,
whereas the historical fact is that he failed. This
shows that the photographs were not taken on the
spot, and suggests an attempt to deceive the
audience.
** * *
The Bijou Picture Palace, George-street
West, Sydney, is showing, among numerous, other
items, the life of George Washington under two
flags. By some oversight the episode of the
cherry tree and the little axe was omitted when
Georgie was “took.” Altogether George does
not appear in too favorable a light. Scenes in
the Tyrol reveal some fine scraps of scenery, and
also the fact that the women are not nearly so
good-looking as the men. There is a phonograph
sort of accompaniment to the moving picture
which makes the blessed thing talk as well as act.
##* * *
Sydney Tivoli has lost the three Sprightly
sisters; on Tuesday evening the clever girls
romped through their share of the programme for
the last time. The sister who takes the man’s
part in the rehearsal burlesque is one of the best
comediennes seen on this patch of the earth’s
crust for some years ; in the opinion of this scribe,
she is in the same class as May Beatty—the pretty
girl-humorist who threw aside the pomps and
vanities so cheerfully in “A Chinese Honey-
moon” and made Australia happy as the scare-
crow serving-maid. Consequent on the de-
parture of the Sprightlies, the seals are fill-
ing the bill more than ever. The sleek,
graceful things are having a triumphal season, and
when their last evening arrives, bouquets of fresh
fish ought to be handed across the footlights.
Athmore Gray, the Fogland dancer, Blake and
Granby, Ronald George, and the Wheelers are
the other main supports ; and Cakewalk Johnson
and Vaude and Verne render assistance. Four
minor reinforcements arrived on Saturday, but
the whole four cannot fill the place of the Spright-
lies. The Tivoli is a duller house this week by
reason of their departure.
** * *
The Rickards’ management has rather
suddenly closed down Adelaide Tivoli for the
present. The season has given S. A. a chance of
seeing Cinquevalli and Chung Ling Soo, and it is
grateful for that at least. The Empire does not
fly at game quite so high but it continues with a
good all-round show. West’s Pictures are back
at Olympia, and are repeating “ by request ” the
Apache dance and “ The Red Hand.” The Globe
also re-opened with pictures in “Show week,”
and seems likely to continue. The Royal has
had a brilliant week with “The Hypocrites.”
The play is very Jonesy, having both the appeal-
ing points and the weaknesses of that remarkable
author; also it has a fourth act which seems an
anti-climax after the powerful finish of the third.
Of the newcomers. Miss Gladys Harvey makes the
most immediate impression. The present pro-
duction is “Lucky Durham,” with which Wilson
Barrett was making a success in the “provinces”
in England just before he fled upwards. The
play is distinctly second-rate, but good of that
rate. Finally, 1000 public-school children have
given two great concerts at the Exhibition, the
Conservatorium orchestra, in a most sporting way,
coming in to provide the simple accompaniments.
Even if the singing had not been good, the con-
certs must have been a popular success, for 1000
children imply about 2000 parents and quite
10,000 affectionate relatives; but, as a matter of
fact, the singing was good, as S. Australian public
school singing lias been these many years past—
thanks to the department having had a musical
inspector or two.
** # *
A great crowd of Shakspearian souls
gathered at Melbourne Town Hall last Saturday
afternoon to see “ Julius Caesar ” produced on the
Chinese plan—sans scenery, sans curtain, sans
supers, sans everything save actors clad in the
Roman garments of the antique world when men
did bare their limbs and mock at rheumatics. A
recital of Shakspeare’s tragedy by the Oscar Asche
company proved to be interesting as an enter-
tainment and as an object-lesson in how to
do it. The manner of the performance was in-
genious, and the effect sufficiently impressive,
especially in the first part, which terminated with
the meagre excitement of a limited Roman popu-
lace in the presence of Csesar’s corpse. As a
matter of fact, there were a few supers—mostly
girls—who represented the crowd in the Forum
where Mark Antony held forth. But they were
very few, and although their uprising was the
liveliest feature of the recital, it fell far short of
reasonable expectation. Much more populace
might have been present even on the narrow Town
Hall stage, with only a screen of funereal black-
ness for background.
* • •
Mark was the weak item in the perform-
ance. lan Penny, the comely Orlando of the co.,
looked the part of Caesar’s giddy young friend,
but his elocution is poor, and his acting has no
sincerity in it. He roared as gently as a sucking
dove whilst addressing the jury re the murder of
his friend. His tribute to the corpse of Brutus,
at the finish of the show, was quite unequal
to the occasion. Any first-class auctioneer
could be taught in six lessons to deliver the lines
of Mark Antony more thrillinglv than this un-
lucky Penny. For the rest, there was much virtue
and Roman dignity in the performance of the
minor conspiratorial parts, much strength and
realism in Asche’s representation of Brutus
(although he looked more like a modern prize-
fighter than the lofty patriot of tradition), and a
lot of theatrical coloring about the Caesar of Fritz
Russell and the Cassius of Herbert Grimwood.
The former had an arrogantly imperial manner
which seemed to invite assassination, but which
suited the apparition of Caesar’s Ghost; the latter
argued his points with the vivacity of an over-
wrought Hebrew, as when he played lago.
His Cassius roused Brutus to conspiracy
with the same transparent artfulness that
lago employed on Othello’s jealousy, and
in the quarrel scene between the two
noble Romans the lean and hungry Cassius
showed no reason why his friend should think him
other than a glib hypocrite. Miss Bray ton spoke
the lines of Mrs. Brutus with sweet musical in-
tonation. Miss Clement did excellently well as
the boy Lucius, and Miss Constance Robertson
was an effective Caesar’s wife, as far as her weak
voice permitted. Some alterations in the closing
episodes, where the Town Hall platform was
supposed to be a battlefield, were cleverly adapted
to the requirements of a recital, and the whole
performance was a further testimony to Oscar
Asche’s talent for lucid interpretation of Shaks-
pearian drama.
* • * ■*
To-day (Thursday) the triumphal Ascheians
are leaving Melbourne for Sydney. “As You
Like It, ” polished in every part by repetition, was
to bring the season to a close last night, so there
will be nothing on at the Royal until Saturday,
when “ Miss Hook of Holland ” will be revived by
the C.M.G. musical co.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) a new
musical comedy is promised, under the auspicious
title of “The Catch of the Season.” Meanwhile
“ The Girls of Gottenberg ” is putting in a week.
Judging from the reception of that trusty
revival last Saturday, it should fill in the space
without leaving many seats to spare. The cast of
characters nowadays is much abbreviated from
what it was two years ago, and the omission of
several superfluous people seems to have strength-
ened the appearance of the principals, except-
ing the uneventful Elsa of the story, who
is now Miss Godwin instead of Florence
Young. There was a want of poetic charm
in Miss Young’s frivolities; but the effect
of Miss Godwin is still further removed from
daintiness. It is in “Gottenberg” that Miss
Dan go gets so rri any easy chances to score, and Victor
Gouriet is seen at his best. Gouriet’s eompari-
tively quiet humor makes an effective contrast to
the pantomimic drollery of Fred Leslie, whilst
shining in association with the unobtrusive
methods of Mrs. George Lauri as Clementine —a
part formerly played by Miss Clara Clifton.
Miss Nellie Wilson, bright and dashing' but too
hurried in her work, resumes her original place ;
likewise the arch and sprightly Miss Jessie
Brown, who has the same habit of rushing
through her duties. Reginald Roberts is Prince
Otto —as before, rather harsh and angular in his
assumption of debonairness; and most lamentably
ill-tailored. Finally there is Andrew Higginson,
as the occasional captain of the Magenta Dragoons.
Higginson is gorgeous and amusing in his little
part. He was built for it, and his finery fits him
as a sausage is fitted by its envelope. Yet for
the present writer the personality of Higginson
has a pathetic interest. The young man had the
bad luck to be born 30 years too late. He should
have flourished in the age of “lion comiques,”
and then, in a pale pink suit, with a sky-bluebell-
topper on the back of his head and an eyeglass on
his joyous face, he might have thrilled the London
music hall audiences of the period by singing
“Chartreuse Cecil is My Name!” No matter.
These reflections have nothing to do with the fact
that “The Catch of the Season’’comes due on
Saturday next.
** * *
At the Princess’s the latest “ Silver King ”
revival was withdrawn on Wednesday, if the
advt. spoke truly, and the theatre in that case is
tenantless once more. Titheradge warmed to his
good old character during the last nights of the
season, and Melbourne rolled up to its beloved
melodrama as though reluctant to let it go. But
it had to go seemingly. Companies never come
to the Princess’s nowadays with a stern resolve to
stay there for three months or so. They drop in
promiscuously, and are off again ere the public is
fully aware of their visit.
#* # *
At the King’s, a long Anderson ian season
has but one more week to run. The present
drama— “ The Man She Loves ’’—will be replaced
on Saturday by “Gipsy Jack,” which is said to
“ teem with incident and mysteries, whose unravel-
ling strangely fascinates one.” Therefore it is
hoped that the sun of Anderson will sink in a
blood-red sea, to re-arise hereafter with renewed
splendor. Bland Holt is to bring himself and co.
to the house in Russell-street on the 9th.
** * #
Some new arrivals at the Opera House
were to happen for the first time on Tuesday of
this week. Among the people who are not going
away the Sisters Trapnell and their brother
George are chief attractions. Presumably George
is a brother, but if that lissome young person were
to appear in an altered form as another sister it
would not be very surprising.
** # *
Melbourne’s Repertory Theatre scheme
has “ blown out,” and a Stage Society is proposed
in its stead, the modest object of the S.S. being
“ the occasional production of new plays.” The
Repertory Theatre crowd, which was a very small
crowd, seemed incapable of understanding, in the
first place, that a capital of £4OOO was pretty
certain to be lost in the ordinary way of business,
or of understanding, in the second place, that J.
C. Williamson had nothing to gain by managing
the business. Consequently, when the enthusiast*
snorted at J.C. W.’s terms, he definitely declined
to handle the matter. The Stage Society will
have his assistance as regards the providing of
theatre, scenery and costumes, if anything comes
of the scheme. But if the occasional new plays
are to be produced and acted mainly by amateurs,
they will have to depend on subscribers to provide
the audiences.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Comedian Bert Gilbert, who has been resting from the
Regency in “ The King of Cadonia,” has been tilling in
the time, not nursing an ’ibis in a private hospital as was
reported, but at Springwood, in the Blue Mountains.
Australia has got into the habit of presenting Gilbert
with complaints that he hasn’t any use for, and won’t
accept. While he was in Melbourne the papers gave him
pneumonia, but he had to decline it, having pleurisy
already ; and just at present the only trouble he’s really
suffering from is a little rust in the voice and tired feeling
in the legs.
“0.K.”: How absurdly overrated is the “ cleverness ”
of Rosina Casselli’s puny dogs ! At the Palace Theatre,
London, a comedy-drama, entitled “The Faithless Wife,”
is performed by dogs without the presence of a trainer
on the scene. The husband dog takes an affectionate
leave of his spouse. Then the gay Lothario dog enters
the room through the window, and the lady receives him
with demonstrations of ardent affection. They kiss
daintily, with their paws round one another’s shoulders,
and are horribly alarmed when the husband returns to
fetch his umbrella. He discovers the intruder, etc., etc.
It is a burlesque of human play-acting, and remarkably
droll and realistic at that. A Frenchman named Meriau
trained the animals.
The cheap and gaudy journalism of James Douglas has
taken the form of a book of London “impressions”—
many of these impressions having been made on a pat of
butter, seemingly—and this is what he says of George
Edwardes, the dwindling high priest of musical comedy :
“ Mr. George Edwardes is a marvellous judge of invisible
currents of opinion. He can put his finger on the pulse
of the public and count its beats. I have been told that
he often sits in front among the audience and studies its
symptoms. If anything or anybody appears to bore or
tire or weary the audience, he ruthlessly eliminates the
offence Or the offender. He makes the play and the players
play up to the delicate moods of the pleasure-seekers
who come to the theatre to be amused. That is the
whole secret of his success. He is in touch with the
world before the footlights as well as the world behind
them.” Ye gods ! Likewise great Caesar ! Australia has
seen only the pick of the musical pieces that George
Edwardes has staged in London. It is certain that he
didn’t eliminate all the boring and wearying matter from
them, despite his condescension in studying the symptoms
of the audience like any other manager possessed of
ordinary business instinct. He may tr}- to put his fat
finger on the audience’s pulse, but he isn’t particularly
sensitive to its delicate moods. All theatrical managers
seem incapable of getting into very close touch with
public opinion on the first night of a show. As compared
with experienced theatregoers who know little of the
world behind the footlights, managers are bad judges of
what is or isn’t going to “ catch on.” They can’t gauge
the exact measure of real popularity in the applause of a
friendly first-night audience. When the box-office
returns on subsequent nights tell them that the piece
has not “caught on” their eliminations are often no
wiser than their new interpolations. And then it is too
late to turn a failure into a great success, anyhow. The
man who writes of George Edwardes as a “marvellous”
fingerer of the public pulse is a mere purveyor of non-
sensical grovel.
Dainty Irene Franklin, whose death was announced
some years ago, is just now appearing at one or more of
the fashionable halls in London, and doing exactly the
same “ turns ” that she did in Australia prior to her
alleged decease. She looks a little older, but her style is
■ just as young and artless as ever.
“Star”: Gregan McMahon is a youngish actor man
who has climbed during the last couple of years. His
eminently practical businessman in “ Diana of Dobson’s”
was a noticeable performance. Later, he has given us
Jean Torquenie, ' Brough’s old character in “The
Village Priest,” and the study was intelligent, the repre-
sentation accurate and vital. In the “ Sherlock Holmes ”
revival McMahon produced his version of Moriarty, the
Napoleon of Crime, originated here by Atholwood.
McMahon’s Moriarty was different from Atholwood’s, but
not inferior—more venerable, a better Irishman, on the
whole a very satisfactory effort. McMahon, I remember,
began with a very hard line (like an immature amateur in
pen drawing), but he has softened and mellowed, and
promises to be a very useful artist of uncommon
versatility.
“ E.D.” : Seeing “The Silver King’’again, a night or
two after sitting out “As You Like It,” I could not get
away from the idea that old Adam in the Shakspearian
comedy is own father to our ancient, lean-shanked
friend, Dan’l Jaikes. The similarity between these de-
voted servitors is too marked to be merely accidental.
Nellie Denver’s hoary man-servant hands out his stored-
up earnings precisely as old Adam, Orlando’s hired
man, forks up his 500 crowns of “ thrifty hire.” The only
difference is that Jaikes attaches himself to Mrs. Orlando,
and shares her misfortunes, whereas the original Adam
went with Master Orlando to “ light upon some settled
low content.”
“S.S.”: Melbourne people are pluming themselves on
their wonderful appreciation of the celebrated William
Shakspeare. To be sure, Shakspeare has had local suc-
cesses earlier in history, but the present generation is
unfeignedly and joyously amazed on finding itself actually
able to like W. S. The disposition to regard the works of
Shakspeare as akin to the works of God is a British failing
that has extended to Australia. Those works were
respected, even venerated; but now they are really
enjoyed as human and comprehensible, and Melburnians
feel that their capacity for getting pleasure out of the
great Mr. Shakspeare is very greatly to their credit. It
all means fine advertising for the Asches, since every man
who suddenly finds himself capable of appreciating
Shakspeare wants to make a great noise about it right
away.
At Melbourne Masonic Hall, t’other Saturday night, a
pair of bright young amateurs blossomed into professional
dramatic recitalists. George Morgan was the he of the
company, and Miss Ethel Goddard his partner in temerity.
Together they gave a serious dramatic scene and a comedy
sketch, and individually they recited to the admiration of
an audience which had brought “ floral tributes” with it.
Presumably they are prepared to repeat the entertain-
ment on slight provocation, nor is there any reason why
the provocation should not ensue.
“MARRIED TO THE WRONG MAN,” AT
THE PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
The happy ending in court pleases the meto
drama Judge.
“0.K.”: Why should soprano singers, whose throats
were formed for exciting feats of vocalisation, and for
whom the simple hackneyed ballad has no artistic charms,
be condemned to warble “Home, Sweet Home” before
leaving the platform ? And why do the public persist in
regarding that long-drawn-out Yankee ditty as tlje best
of all possible outlets for the feelings of an Australian
song-bird returned to her native country after a long
absence in Europe? “ Home, Sweet Home ”is mascu-
line in sentiment and regretful in tone. The singer is
supposed to be a man bemoaning his splendid exile
from the land of his birth and the “thatched cottage” of
his boyhood. Even though we accept a woman as
the wandering exile, she can show no sentimental' cause
for singing “ Home, Sweet Home ” on her native plat-
form. Why does she profess to be longing to return to
her dear old homeland when she is actually there ? It is
rational for, say, Dolores to warble the doleful ballad in
Australia. Coining from the lips of Melba, Ada Crossle.v
or Amy Castles, it is an obviously false profession of feel-
ing. in short, it is bunkum. They can’t possibly enter
into the spirit of the words, save when they are living
abroad “ ’midst pleasures and palaces.” Yet they are ex-
pected to sing them in an emotional manner to Australian
audiences. It is to the credit of Melba and Amy Castles
that they have never made any earnest pretence of get-
ting a lump in the throat whilst performing the tiresome
ditty of “ Home, Sweet Home.” Ada Crossley, when she
returned to Australia, made a point of being “ overcome
by emotion ” every time she started her song of exile.
Her cheap histrionics were excusable only on the suppo-
sition that she really felt the absurdity of her position,
and pretended to “ break down ” in order to escape
from it.
“ Theorbo ”: I wrote in this paper of the Pope’s order
for old-time Gregorian music to be used in the masses
throughout the Catholic Church. A few clergy, not so
well informed as others, have mentioned this as a recom-
mendation. No, it was a positive command, like that
which has been obeyed since Easter, 1908, with regard to
mixed marriages. When Archbishop Carr returned from
Europe it was expected he would give a pronunciamento.
He says nothing on the point. So it may be taken for
granted that the Pope has drawn in his ecclesiastical
horns. For many years, as Patriarch .of Venice, he had
been shocked by the operatic music on Sundays in
churches like the Giudecca or the Redentore. I have
even heard of music from “La Traviata,” like the
“Libiamo ” (“Let Us Booze”) being played in an Italian
church. The Pope resolved to sweep away Mozart,
Haydn, Weber, Gounod and so forth, in one batch. All
came under his ban. The order proved too large. Yet
the Archbishop of Adelaide has been trying to enforce it.
Professor Beard, at St. Patrick’s, Melbourne, makes a
compromise by eliminating solo displays. St. Ignatius’s,
of Richmond, the Melbourne suburb, is the only other
Victorian church I have heard of that struggles to comply
with the papal command.
TO WILLIAM ANDERSON: LINES WRITTEN IN
ANGRY PROTEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. William Anderson has secured the Australian rights
of a melodrama by Nat Gould, entitled “ The Chance of a
Lifetime.” —Sorrowful cable item.
Just pardon me one moment while I weep !
I have some words to say, lend me your ears—
I charge you, hold not this emotion cheap ;
Mock not these tears.
Ah, now I’m feeling better. I will speak :
I will to Mister Anderson protest!
Long—long have we been patient, mild and meek—
Give us a rest !
In what have we displeased you, tell me pray,
That you must heap on us wrong after wrong?
How much more must we suffer, William, say ?
O Lord, how long ?
The same old weary shockers bought at ’Orne.
Blood, ever Blood ! Bright, Shining, Sticky Gore !
Why send these Ooekney goods across the foam?
We'll have no more !
Unless—dare I suggest it!—can it be
That you have purchased some original
Achievement ? Surely not! Come, answer me ;
Speak up, old pal.
Speak, I implore you. Have you bought a play
In which the hero’s forty years of age ?
In which the heroine does not display
Most awful rage
When, in Act 1., the villain seeks her hand
In holy wedlock ? Why the rogue himself—
Who knows !—may scorn all murder, rapine and
111-gotten pelf.
Mayhap he does not smoke a cigarette,
And puffs instead a plain and honest pipe.
If so, bring not the drama out here yet—
The time’s not ripe
Alas ! I seem to know this Mr. Gould.
I’ve heard of him. Most probably his play
Will centre round a jockey who is fooled
And led astray
By darksome Hebrew coves, “ rogues of the ring,”
Who urge the guileless lad to pull his horse —
The gallant quadruped called “ Mountain King.”
Saiiitly remorse
Attacks the jock, who wins by riding straight.
“Theclouds have passed away,” the hero cries,
What time the Hebrews hurry towards the gate
With bloodshot eyes
I’ll not endure it, Bill ! I tell you that
■My patient heart with holy rage is filled.
Bring not the drama out, or, by my hat,
Gore will he spilled !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
ARMS FOR THE ENEMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ He was me friend, that; fellow there,”
The Pointer said, and clasped his brow.
“ I loved hitn as a brother, sir.
Alas ! but that is over now.
He is a traitor ; that is why
We never speak as we pass by.
“ We played together, me and him,
On many boards in other days.
He was the villain black and grim,
I was the hero of the plays.
And when the ghost had missed the ’bus
We shared the onions thrown at us.
“ Once when they stunned him with a spud
I nursed him. And he treats me thus.
It fairly fires me act-or’s blood
To think how he’s turned dog on us.
He went back on his class, the cow !
And runs a market garden now ! ”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


R EG °
GLOVES FOR THE RACES
at the FREHGH GLOVE HOUSE
yOU want, just the right kind of gloves in just the
1 right shade to go with your race gown. They
will give the finishing touch and make or mar the
effect of the whole toilette.
Just come and see our gloves—we have the pair
you want, the right size, the right fit and the
right color; moreover, our gloves have just the right
■tyle.
There are three charming lines .
3-Button French Kid, New Fancy Points, Tur-
quoise Blue, Rose, Eau de Nil, Reseda, Myrtle,
Vieux Rose, Helio., Navy, Pastelle, Drabs, to match
any frock —4/11£.
The same Glove—B-Button Length Musquetaire,
in the same shades—7/6.
3-Button Fine Kid. Stitched Backs, Sky, Pale
Pink, Helio., Eau de Nil, Reseda, Violet, Prunella,
Topaz, Perfect Fit arid Fine Quality, 3/6.
AXTENS & CO.,
(La Maison
Parisienne),
24-30 The Strand, Sydney
EDUCATION BY POST —The Proprietors
Hoare a Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
IZiZT- Sch r L Their s - menls of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only bv adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good - positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious yoinn- man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free. UKlet
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College
Moore Street, Sydney.* uouege,
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town'
J - w COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
The GOERZ'PAGOR'
BINOCULAR.
A New Type of
Prism Binocular.
SMALLER than any other Prism Glass, YET just as
Brilliant. The Human Eye is NOT as big as a dinner
plate, YET it answers the purpose for which it is
created.
THE GOERZ “PAGOR”
is a triumph of Optical Science. It transmits everything
as the Human Eye does, but with a Brilliancy never
before attained.
IT IS A MARVELLOUS BINOCULAR.
For Sportsmen, Tourists, Pastorafists, Ladies, eto.
PRiCE(including Slings and Leather Case),
Magnification, X 6 ; Weight, lOoz.
OTHER SIZES STOCKED.
£B/151-
HARRINGTONS LTD.
PHOTO. MATERIAL and CAMERA MERCHANTS,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
179 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
93 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
IMPOSSIBLE!
STOUT PERSON : “ Which is the way into yonder
house, my boy? ”
BOY : “ Through the fence.”
“N. Naime ” : The delegates to the
Chamber of Commerce Congress, with their
women folk, were entertained at the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) Agricultural College the other day.
This is the Government institution where the
cooks, waiters and other domestics toil from 13
to 15 hours for from ss. to Is. Bfd. per day—a
little matter that was not revealed to the dele-
gates. The Minister, Mr. Perry, when speaking
his piece, talked about the “ efficiency and civility
of our domestic staff,” and hinted darkly that
great things were about to be done for it because
of the love he had for it. He did not say, though,
that for over four months his Department has
ignored the petitions of those workers, when they
asked for better pay and shorter hours. The Com-
merce people were led to believe that this parti-
cular staff is contented, happy and loyal, pleased
«nd delighting to please; whilst, as a matter of
fact, the devil of bitter discontent has been eating
out its heart for many days. A staff needs more
than Is. B£d. per day, else it becomes an unhappy
cudgel. Also, at 15 hours a day, its loyalty
becomes a negligible quantity.
According to Dr. Eric Sin-
clair, the Inspector-General of the
Ma State’s insane, some of the hos-
pitals and homes that he has to
keep his eye on are abominably
overcrowded. At Newcastle there
is a hospital specially set aside for
imbeciles and idiots—the only one
of the kind in N. S. Wales—and
though there is only accommoda-
tion for 322 patients, no less than
439 are pushed into it. Year after
year Dr. Sinclair has urged that
the State should establish a
special home for weak-minded
children ; but nothing is done—
they just grow up anyhow until
finally they are shot into this or
some other asylum,, where they
mostly remain for good. There
are some civilised countries which
hand these children over to
specialists. These specialists
coax, the little spark of intelli-
gence the patients own into
something approaching a flame,
and in a good many cases save
them from becoming hopeless
and helpless imbeciles, and a
permanent charge on the State.
Even little S. Australia has a
home of that sort, thanks to the
enthusiasm of C. C. Kingston’s
one-time partner, the late George
Ash. But, except for the little bit
that the Child Study Association can do,
the wealthy Ma State merely loafs. And
the position is just as bad in connection
with what are classed as “Criminal insane.”
There is only one hospital for these—at
Parramatta—and more than 62 patients
can t be squeezed in ; yet as there are more
than 62 certified as requiring admission, the sur-
plus lunatics have to bq kept in gaol. And even
if they are sent to the Parramatta asylum they
are all herded into one ward—the generally inof-
fensive “ balmy ” person with the violent maniac
who has probably been fired into gaol in the first
place for smashing somebody’s skull. In the
prisons they classify the inhabitants so that che
extra-bad egg shall not have a chance to spoil
others; but once a prisoner loses what is left of
his mental balance he is just turned into a mob
in which no attempt is made at any kind of
classification.
•** * *
Australians with a turn for mechanics—
and they mostly have it—can be safely advised to
buy the Invencors’ Guide and Map (of Australia),
published by G. Turri and Co., of Melbourne.
Turri s business is the securing of patents, trade
marks, etc., and the map aforesaid carries on the
back of it a load of ideas, hints and useful infor-
mation for them who dream of inventing a new
means to riches. The suggestions as to what to
invent begin with the plain homely truth that
“the kitchen is still an excellent field for any
inventor of either sex,” and the mention of knife-
cleaners and dish washers is calculated to sow
seeds of inventive faculty in the virgin soil of the
feminine mind. Why are there as yet no million-
airesses who owe their fortune to ideas that struck
them whilst they were washing up?
HER RESPONSIBILITY.
“ It’s really a sin to wear such an expensive hat
as that.”
“Never mind, dear—the sin will be on my own
head.”
It is no longer legal to “sell a horse,” in
N. S. Wales; a country P.M. has declared it to
be a lottery, game of chance, and a place within
the meaning of Wade’s Anti-Gambling Act. And
yet it seemed quite a harmless pastime; the
writer has even seen it practised after
progress committee meetings, with the
local doctor in the chair and the local
C.P.S. taking the minutes. First, a
number is written by somebody—gener-
ally the barmaid —on a piece of paper ;
and then the crowd starts to count,
and it goes on counting till one man
calls the sacred number ; after which
he scoops up the shillings and shouts.
It’s really a very sensible arrange-
ment when there’s a crowd and all
are friends ; for if one man shouts for
the lot it makes a big hole in his
pocket, and then somebody else shouts
—somebody else who can’t afford it,
but doesn’t like taking a drink with-
out giving one ; and then a third, who
can even less afford it, reckons that fee
doesn’t want to be mean, and that’s
three drinks ; and anything may hap-
pen after three drinks. So the Bush
invented the plan of “selling a horse,”
and it lasted for years and years.
But now it seems that it has to go, for
Wade’s anti-gambling law has spotted
it, and has biffed it out along with two-
up and other sinful things.
“ S.Y.” : In the way of Stinking Fish
hawking Sydney Sunday Slimes put up a per-
formance the other day that would be hard to
beat. Under numerous headings beginning “Not
Wanted in Australia” it started off an article
with this :
Australia needs boys—boys of all sorts ; yet it refuses
to take in Little Boy Smith, aged five, and, by refusing,
compels his mother and father to lose work and to
become penniless and remain so.
Th 6 parents of the infant (with portrait), it ex-
plains, are “ from England,” and because of their
offspring, “at whom Australia is making a wry
face,” they have repeatedly been refused a married
couple’s job by station owners or their agents.
Now, if the Sunday Slimes wanted to heave a
well-deserved half-brick at some of the landowners
of N.S.W., why didn’t it say so? If a squatter
, , ~ , ~
openly burgled the Slimes sa.e, would that paper
charge the crime against all Australia, or even
against all Sydney ? If not, why charge Australia
with the offence of a small, selfish, unrepre-
sentative section of the community of N. S. Wales ?
Why tell the he that Australia refuses to take in
Johnny Smith, when the fact is merely that some
Tory landholders refuse to give his parents a job
after he is in, and persist in advertising for
married couple without encumbrance”?
A lot of people were beginning to wonder
why Victoria’s most precious gaol birds stayed in
the broken aviary which is called Pentridge ; but
the mystery is now solved. They remain there
because they are a lot more comfortable than the
warders who are paid to walk round with artillery
so that they won’t be disturbed. When the reve-
lations were made concerning the unguarded
condition of the armory and the general state of
dilapidation, the public awoke and asked why the
convicts hadn’t risen in revolt, overpowered the
prison staff, and descended on Melbourne as an
armed body of pirates to plunder the city. The
following testimony from a shivering warder helps
to explain why the possible insurrection has never
taken place:—
The prisoners were far better favored than warders in
the matter of sleeping accommodation, inasmuch as
those warders, sleeping in the emergency quarter over
the main gate, had to be satisfied with uncomfortable
beds and meagre and threadbare bedding. Prisoners, if
they were dubious about their bed covering, had the
right to take their blankets to the chief warder and have
them weighed, and if they were found to be deficient
new blankets were issued to them. Another worry for a
warder is, according to the witness, that two towels have
to suffice for six men, whilst each prisoner is provided
with two clean towels to himself.
There has never been a scarcity of tobacco in the
old stone joke, and some Coburg people would
believe you if you told them that some of the
prisoners had private wine cellars. The only
matter for astonishment is that no warders have
yet been suspended for taking bedclothes from the
inmates of the charitable institution. As for the
prisoners rising—well, it would be almost as
foolish for a number of chronic clubmen to attack
the stewards with billiard cues, and break Out into
the cold, indifferent world where no one would
bother about them or answer their cries for whisky
and soda.
St. Kilda (Melb.) continues to feel much
disturbed over the question whether the oldest
and most accessible of its men’s swimming baths
is to be blotted out by the Government on behalf
of a bloated opposition establishment, or is to be
granted a new site in the interests of sea-bathers
in general. Premier Murray has wrapped him-
self in an obstructive silence, and the agitators
can get no satisfaction from him. When he was
asked to receive a deputation of St. Kilda citizens
and hear its ideas re the threatened abolition of
“Kenny’s,’’ he replied with a letter, stating
that “justice would be done to Captain Kenny
and the public interests would be conserved.”
Which was an amazing reply, seeing that Captain
Kenny has been dead two years. A further
attempt to get,-an interview with the somnolent
Premier was repulsed with the announcement
that he couldn’t receive another deputation,
whereas the trouble was, and is, that no deputa-
tion has ever been received. Murray is either
strangely uninformed of the point at issue or is
feigning ignorance. Possibly his deafness is due
to ear-bite.
IN THE SYDNEY “ TELEGRAPH” OFFICE.
D.T. DESK-CLERK : “Now, then, young man, you
give the editor his proper title when you ask
for him. Remember he is Doctor Ward now.”
L. B.: “Pooh! Watcher givin’ us! ’Im an’ me’s
ole friends; an’ I ain’t never gointer call’ 'im
anythin ’ cep ’ ‘ Whiskers.’”
“Whiskers” Ward, of Sydney Telegraph,
is back from having lunch with Harmsworth and
the rest of the ancient peerage of England, and in
his enthusiasm writes—
A noble family is an immortal institution.
Often as not, however, Ward’s description doesn’t
fit the noble family to a “ t.” In any case, a
family can’t be immortal unless it lives for ever,
and if “Whiskers” W. will name even one family
that has done so this paper will give £lOOO to any
charity he likes to name. Mostof the “immortal”
nobility is really very new. There are 33 printed
columns of peers in “ Whitaker’s Peerage,” and
eight columns of them don’t go back furthur than
the reign of Victoria ; while 17 columns of them
go back no further than Geo. 111. Even Baron
Ballinbriech only dates back to James 11. of
Scotland, and he is among the very, very ancient
remnants.
THE UNDERTAKER’S HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Asked if the casuals did not do other work than under-
takers’, the witness replied: “If you are an under-
taker’s hand once, you are an undertaker for ever, or
until you are put under the ground.”— Sydney Paper.
I am the Undertaker’s Hand,
And, garbed in rusty black,
Before the stricken house I stand
Waiting to take you back
Unto the earth from which you came
To live, and love, and fight for fame.
I am the Undertaker’s Hand !
I am the Hand of Death !
I settle people in the land
When they are out of breath ;
When speech is gone and Life is spent,
Mine is the Closest Settlement.
I am the threadbare, silent Hand —
The Henchman of the Grave ;
When in the hour-glass falls the sand,
Only the rolling wave
Can save your silent clay from me
(And so I hate the heaving sea).
I am the willing, silent Hand,
My fee is half-a-crown ;
For that three others of the band
And I will let you down ;
Little enough it is we say
To fix folks up for Judgment Day.
I am the black and mournful Hand
For ever and for aye :
For from my bondage, understand,
I may not break away.
I serve the tomb until, you see,
Serving I die. Then it serves me !
N.S.W.
THE SEXTON.
BLACK TIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
.Once more a Melbourne clergyman has referred in un
kind terms to the love of young people for sport, dancino-
and picnics. B
Oh, some may prance at the night-long dance, or sit in
the dusty dark
Where only the spiders come out to pry on the couples
who love to lark ; K
And some, in summer-time, may prefer the long warm
hours to pass
In lying around in a lazy way on a hummock of sand and
JJ'l’tlSSj
While the tide goes out, and the sea-weed sings
A drowsy song of romantic things. . . .
Yet some of us notice that pleasure has stings
That every dancer undoubtedly is
A person who wallows in folly and fizz,
Apd the picnicker is no class.
The sober and careful soul may wear dull garb, six davs
or seven, J
And tramp, in a horrible hat, the track that leads to his
looked-for Heaven ;
Yet some there be who are fond of frill, and they pav for
it (cash, mayhap !), ■ ■ * *
And others who find good sport, alack, in pursuit of a
racing snap ;
But milliners’ bills and punters’ tricks,
In joys like these do the righteous mix?
Ah, no—on the drab and the drear they fix
Their thoughts, and the hands o’ the clock go round,
And the balm o’ the blessed at night is found
In a solemn and sinless nap.
The oyster, late on a festive plate, is a joy to the gav
stop-out, J 8 '
And the bell o’ the last, wild tram he hears as he gobbles
his pint of stout; 6
But, ah !—the toll o’ the Sunday gong to the stern, staid
soul is blest, *
And the large, round plate o’ the Sunday haul is the
platter he loves the best .;
Oh, pause in your merriment, friends, a jiff,
To pity the brother who acts as if
The last, lone nag in the world was stiff !
A tear for (he brother who, drearily droll
With sackcloth and ashes to stiffen his soul,
Wears a murky tie on his chest!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


SCIENTIFIC OPINION.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F 1.C., F.C.S
Public Analyst, of Sydney, adds his testi-
mony to that of other scientific men on the
purity of Sunlight Soap, He reports: —
“Having analysed samples of Sunlight
Soap, purchased on open market, we have
pleasure in attesting to the especial purity
of Sunlight Soap. Sunlight Soap is evi-
dently manufactured under close chemical
supervision, for we find it to contain no un-
saponified fat, no free alkali, and to be a well
made soap. There is no adulteration what-
ever. Sunlight Soap has the healthy, clean
smell of refined fats and oils, and is a good
genuine laundry soap. Whilst it cannot
injure the finest fabric nor the skin, yet b
will do its work thoroughly.”
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCOLATOR
Price, &3 3s.
Money Back ip not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS 8 CO, LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
A STRONG
FAVORITE!
OUR CREPE SHIRT is selling
fast—it is immensely popu-
lar, as it has proved in
past seasons to be without equal
as an ideal Summer Shirt.
The CREPE SHIRT is our own
make—a grand wearer—ready for
immediate use—with loose collar
and soft cuffs, or stiff neckband
and cuffs —and of pre-shrunken
material that gives every satisfac-
tion and launders as soft as silk.
Price 5/O
We Post Anywhere for 6d. extra.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
'm
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
The state of the North Pole, at latest
advices, was that Dr. Cook had been received at
New York with great honor, and that Commander
Peary was so enraged that he had fled to Eagle
Island, Maine, and cut the whole human race
dead. Some other news is that Peary ordered his
assistant, Captain Bartlett, to camp 100 miles
from the Pole while he went on with one Eskimo,
his frankly avowed reasons being (1) that he
wanted all the honor for himself, and (2) that he
specially objected to let Bartlett have any of the
glory because Bartlett was an Englishman. This
beastly frankness has irritated the public against
Peary, and another awkward result is that Peary
hasn’t got Bartlett’s evidence to show that
he ever reached the Pole. It seems a pity that the
dignified old Pole should be muddied in its de-
clining years by this unpleasant controversy. It
was, until the other day, practically the only
institution on earth which h'ad escaped even a
breath of suspicion. It was as free from reproach
as an unborn New York alderman. English-
men, Frenchmen, Italians, Norwegians, Dutch-
men, Germans, Swedes and others went to
look for it, and came back acknowledging their
failure, but casting no suspicion on the Pole’s
respectability. And now the air around it is
darkened with the mud of profanity and the clod
of objurgation, and the Pole might almost as well
be a painted harridan just emerging from the
bottle department of a threepenny pub.
# * * *
The Westralian Government has decided
that the law shall take its course—the one it takes
with a rope in the gladsome early morning—in the
case of Martha Rendall, the child poisoner.
Martha is plainly an undesirable character, and if
she could die conveniently of measles the world
would probably be better for losing her. But
while the hangjed person dies the hangman re-
mains, and he isn’t any too desirable either —he
isn’t desirable or he wouldn’t be a hangman, and
even if he started as a desirable hangman, much
hanging would soon make him undesirable. So
long as the Church isn’t willing to accept a
Christian hangman as a member and an elder, and
so long as his chance of getting into Parliament is
a shade worse than nil, it is evident that there is
something wrong with the business. A community
which believes in hanging should have no regular
strangler. When someone is to be scragged a
name should be drawn at random from the jury
list, and then there would be a fairly equal dis-
tribution of the responsibility.
♦,* * *
A picture from “The Harbor ” :
A crowded motor-boat. One of the crew dropped
a light on the flooring of the craft. In one moment it
was aflame fore and aft. The gases which had gradually
escaped from the engine had accumulated apparently
along the boat’s whole length, and in a flash it was a,roar-
ing mass of flame. The crew simply turn bled in to a dinghy,
which happened to be alongside. Had the accident hap-
pened to a motor-launch in mid-channel, it wouldn’t have
had a dinghy alongside, and the passengers would have
had to choose between fire and water. The Sydney
Harbor authorities are now making a belated attempt to
control the motor traffic, and are insisting on a bulkhead
to prevent the oil and gases from saturating the bottom
of the vessel. This episode ought to hurry them up.
* + * m
“ J.R.” : “ Montalex” B. (9/9/’O9) recalls
the mathematical demonstration many years ago
of the fact that every person of British descent
has anything from a drop to a quart of
genuine Plantagenet blood in his veins.
The proof is indisputable, and the
generalisation may be made much wider.
Surely there can be nothing so dis-
heartening to people who value “blood”
as the discovery that the bluest of it is
generally in the laborer’s cottage.
The investigations of Francis Galton
and others in parish registers and
elsewhere have shown that it is no
use looking in castles to find the repre-
sentatives of the barons of the 13th and
14th centuries. The Barons’ War and
the Wars of the Roses destroyed nearly
all the old territorial nobility. They
fell in battle or on the scaffold, their
blood was attainted, and their lands
were confiscated; their families disap-
peared among the mass of the people,
leaving no traces except in the parish
registers. The last Plantagenet fell at
Bosworth, beaten by the son of Owen
Tudor, the Welsh squire, who intro-
duced an official aristocracy—Seymours,
Cecils, Dudleys and such like, all mere
newcomers compared with many a family
which hasn’t had a representative at Court
(unless it was the police or small debts
place) for many, many years.
• * * •
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Farmer’s corner, Market and Pitt streets, Sydney, is to
be improved at a cost of £lOOO to the City Council, which
will obtain 32 square feet, the intention being to round
off the corner. In the early ’fifties the corner was the
Australian Hotel, a one-storeyed building kept by William
Wakely, who had been a butcher at O’Connell Town-
ancient name for Kingston. The next six shops going
north were kept by Chisholm and Co. ; Janies Mayfield
Merrington ; Christopher Newton, Brothers and Co. ;
Farmer, Williams and Giles ; Tuting and Co. ; Jacobs
and Hart, and then a chemist—Paul Frederick Mor-
gan. Joseph Wakely took the pub later on and
called it the Bull and Mouth. In the mid
’sixties it was the Bathurst Hotel, kept by G. B.
Kelly, known still on the North Shore as “ Gee
Bung.” He has just retired from hotel keeping with a for-
tune. All the others had disappeared excepting Farmers,
which had become Farmer, Painter and Pope. Mrs. Way
succeeded Tuting, and the chemist was succeeded by
W. T. Pinhey, who afterwards became Coroner. In the
first ’seventies, Timothy Hart kept the pub, and was
succeeded by Ellen Sutton, who called it Packer’s Hotel.
Ebenezer Way had mopped up a couple of the shops, and
Mrs. Sohier had opened a waxworks show next to Farmer
and Co., as it had then become. In 73George Packer was
in the pub and Farmer was encroaching towards him. In
1882 George Packer succumbed, and the great drapery em-
porium surged over his premises like a tidal wave hnd
swallowed everything up. A big drapery is like the
eruption of Vesuvius eating up Pompeii; it grows and
spreads and rolls over its neighbors, and the pub in its
path is only a split hair in the road of an avalanche.
The British Government has made it plain
to the local woman that she can’t hope for the
suffrage unless she riots and makes herself a
burden just as men had to do before the
suffrage came their way. There was a time
when only 2000 men in all Scotland had
a vote, and even they were mostly nominees
of the landlords; and when there were
English boroughs with six or a dozen
electors all nominated by the local land-
owner ; and when in Ireland it was common
enough to turn a paddock into a borough and
let the reliable Tory owner elect the member
single-handed. Men rioted, burned property, got
into gaol, got transported and got occasionally
hanged before these iniquities were partially
abolished. Apparently the Englishman has for-
gotten how his old grandfather had to rage
around before he became any more of an elector
than his own ox, for in London to-day English-
women are doing solitary confinement in handcuffs
for adopting much milder methods. For a while the
suffragette got ahead of the authorities by starving
herself in gaol; after about seven days’ hunger the
authorities would release her rather than let her
die on their hands. But the Law got tired of
being defeated in this way and ordered that the
prisoners should be forcibly fed by an “ expert,”
so that door of escape has slammed.
* * 9 *
“ Moorabinda,” on the defence of S. Aus-
tralia in the ’eighties :
September 30 will be the 25th anniversary of the arrival
of the old gunboat Protector, the nucleus of the Austra-
lian navy. The Union Jack was, of course, run up at the
Semaphore ; Forts Glanville and Largs also showed the
orthodox bunting ; and altogether it was a day of great
rejoicing. The new arrival’s small size caused much dis-
appointment ; but a nearer inspection of its battery was
reassuring. On October 3 the vessel steamed up to Port
Adelaide, and was inspected by members of the Ministry,
the Mayor and Corporation. At the moment the Pro-
vince was considerably agitated over its defences, and it
had frightful dreams every night about Russia. The
Chief Secretary went on a tour, and consulted the Ministers
of the other States ; and as they had had bad dreams
too the Government started to bog in with vigor. It was
decided to push on the military road between the Sema-
phore and Glenelg, to erect a fort at Glenelg and arm it
with long-range Whitworth guns, and to patrol the Gulf
of St. Vincent—and that’s where the Protector was to
come in. These preparations did much to allay public
anxiety. The Province did some of the things it talked
about doing ; but before it had time to do the lot the bad
dreams left off, and so Glenelg never got its fort.
* * * *
The lamentable crop of marine disasters
around the ill-lighted South African coast caused
sea people to clamor at the door of Premier
Merriman, of Cape Colony, asking for more light-
houses. And that merry person explained that
he had doubts about putting up more lighthouses,
lest they should lead to careless navigation. It is a
wonder this cheery bloke doesn’t abolish the
existing lighthouses as an incentive to careful
navigation. Nothing makes a captain more care-
ful than a wholly unlighted coast, a pitch-dark
night, a howling gale, and a knowledge that the
rock at the mouth of the port he is making for is
either 10 yards or 25 miles ahead. And if the
lifeboat has also been abolished as an incentive to
careful navigation, his care becomes a disease.
DON'T GAMBLE: JUST SWINDLE.
“My boy, if you wish to become wealthy, don't
gamble, but save. You know the saying"-
“ Yessir. 'It takes other people's money to make
money.'"
As usual, the bodies that are supposed to
fix their thoughts on things above are keeping a
keen eye on things below. The Federal capital
is not yet finally located at Yassberra, and the
actual site is a long way from being settled, but
already the churches are prospecting for desirable
free blocks. The Knoxbyterian kirk got in early
by definitely asking Minister Fuller to reserve it
a block. Seeing that Australia has no State
church, and remembering the enormous number of
different denominations and the business-like
methods of most of them, there doesn’t seem any
visible reason why the “ churches ” shouldn’t be
plainly told to go and buy their own sites, and not
try to engineer State aid by way of the back-stairs.
CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE.
INDIGNANT NEIGHBOR: “ Look here,
your boy threw a stone just now and missed me!”
PARENT: “ You say he missed you! It wasn't my hoy, then!”
Now and again it looks as though it
wouldn’t take much advertising to induce a rush
of immigrants to the Commonwealth. The other
day there arrived in Victoria seven families, com-
prising 20 people, who had paid £33 per head to
come hither from far-away Tomsk, in the middle
of Siberia. Some placards or pamphlets had told
these hardy white farmers that there was room,
freedom and a welcome for them in the Cabbage
Garden, and land on which to live. So they
chanced it, and arrived here with no more than
£lO per head to make a start with. The land, of
course, wasn’t available, but Murray’s Govern-
ment skirmished up a paddock large enough for
them if they closely cultivate it. A quaint evi-
dence of the different conditions existing here was
their impression that they must, as in Tomsk,
walk the streets in single file—unless they wanted
a policeman to accompany them.
“ Wealthy Willie ” : The sacred associa-
tions of Victoria’s one-time Government House, at
Toorak, are about to mingle with the business-like
fragrances of dry hash and three kinds of green
vegetables. Old Toorak House is to become a
boarding-establishment, and the select guest from
Ginjallock and the hairy wool-man from the
Western District will meet at a common board,
and plant their number tens where once rested the
feet of gubernatorial Presences and their lovely
ladies—feet that are now dust. When you come
to think of it, what a heap of old feet are now
dust!
* * « *
The worst trouble of the Woman with a
Past is that it won’t stay past.
* * * <*
“ Chloe,” that sweet study of young woman
in the nude which shocked the Melbourne Grun-
dies when it was loaned to the local National
Gallery by Surgeon Fitzgerald a quarter of a cen-
tury ago, was sold last week to Young (of Young
and Jackson’s pub) for £BOO. Young has some
good pictui’es hanging in the bar-room of the
pub; but Chloe. presumably, is destined for his
private house, and will not be expended on the
firm’s drinkery.
* * * *
“ X.P.D.” from North Queensland :
Some of the prevailing methods of dealing with people
who are suspected of having become partially unroofed in
the mind strike me as plain barbarism. Up here is a lady
of the laundry persuasion. She is the sole support of a
drunken husband and a post-leaning son. Recently she
got a habit of taking jumping exercise in her bare feet
and talking to people who weren’t there. Thus she
became a potential danger to society; so she was run in
and ordered to take standing exercise in court while his
Worship considered her case. I suppose it isn’t the right
thing to give a suspected lunatic a chair. Finally she
was remanded to our far from palatial gaol for eight days,
pending developments. Eight days in a small, ! tin-roofed
gaol under a hot sun seems a fairly heavy sentence for
being suspected of mental disease. Why doesn’t a person
with a broken leg get three month*? And what’s the
matter with a charge of “ bilious and disorderly in the
stomach” and a sentence of ss. or 24 hours?
ACCORDING TO MADDEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chief Justice said he could not understand the
distinction. People went by late trains in order to get a
drink and supper.
Mr. Mitchell: If they didn’t stop for supper they would
go by an earlier train.
The Chief Justice : I daresay they would, but they are
entitled to have their supper. It is a laudable desire to
have supper in town.— Melb. Age.
’Tis a laudable desire to avoid the kitchen fire
And the homely beer and biscuit in the parlor dark and
still;
Go ! sit amongst the tattle and everlasting rattle
Of the dishes in the cate, where the deep, abysmal till
Eats money’ in a hurry while hurried patrons worry
Just whatever waiters bring them ere they scribble out
the bill.
Oh ! a laudable desire means that y’ou don’t overtire
Your one maid by smearing butter on a saucer or a plate ;
So linger ’mid the clatter and everlasting chatter
While the minute-hand accusing keeps on pointing out
it’s late ;
And if you feel some twinges when conscience with its
hinges
Makes some meek and sordid protest, recollect it is your
fate
neglect the kitchen fire for your laudable desire,
And to gallop towards perfection at a most amazing rate,
Led by Madden—C.J. Madden—that high officer of
State.
N.S.W.
O. B. BRIEF.


l Sr
°k'i
If/e
imnonty tear's u t
■rffe licence 2<
does *n %
Wi^
■ Jle,
\^S
i^af dat IlV> turned
TT Several of "$e elite of
Add te ~Hie
gelid" ljonoai'inO it"wilft
ifo-r ! 4
limfcr ~ Hc y -f/jd-slea! Reajtea! ",
Pm Donr CV* if 't"s read gye
Juice -. w « &Sf)am Alike I|«W,]
Sonny ! A
veterans a^’r,v ' ft to do
"VacHle Knock ir money
OH r in vVm .
"ts€
ds Temper vice !
Piracy <b sent" /On
-for drunK" 'for
trim &■ f/e > , ev'ivp > itm
|lie is erratic ,~Wca,«se i?« Ve^er^s
** feel 'S 0 ' ry ’ c^nin^ y ''Anting
0,1 v^ ™S
■fee
youn? downfed 0 W VivfraT*?** e»
"If/e of
h^e
A. COfrt^h^e
THE BATTLE OF THE BEER BOWLS.
The suspension of the Port Melbourne Bowling Green Club license by a snatch temperance minority vote occasioned considerable
feeling in the club. A full meeting was called, and the “no-license” vote has now been rescinded.


Loire's
Schnapps
Wolfe's
Schnapps
A PURE. SPIRIT, SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
Everyone is,
or should be,
interested in Rings.
We are, and our firm has been
for over 60 years, and we therefore
claim to know how to produce—
Two Blue-White'
Jagerfontein Dia-
monds, mounted
in 18ot. Gold, £2O.
Five Selected Dia-
monds, mounted in
ISct. Gold, carved
Half-hoop Ring,
Lucky Black Opal,
mounted, with
selected Diamonds,
in 18ct. Gold, £l6.
What is good—What will wear well—What is artistic and of the latest style—
At the low'est possible price.
We are Gem Importers and Exporters. We are Ring Manufacturers. No intermediate profits.
FAIRFAX (SL ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery-
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
JUST ONE DRAWBACK.
OVERSEER: “ Why, I thought he was a good
fellow to work for?"
COMBO: “ Oh, my word, he’s the nice man good
peller, that peller.”
OVERSEER: “ What did you leave for!"
COMBO: “ He’s a good boss, all right. But ’im
cheque no good at all.”
“Silas Snell”: My business as aide-de-
camp to a teamster took me often between
Dunolly and St. Arnaud (Vic.) in the days when
the line was making. One night we drew up as
usual at Baker’s by the way. We had been in
the habit of camping in Baker’s paddock, and
enjoying the comforts of Baker’s home for a con-
sideration, but to-night a change had come over
the spirit of Baker’s. It was no longer the peace-
ful abode of a gentle agriculturist, but a centre of
turbulence and demented racket. We nearly ran
down two men slumbering in the dust of the cart-
track. Two more were talking in their sleep a
little further on. We detected the legs of
Baker sticking out from under his own tank
stand, and when we pulled him out he said,
“Mother’s dead!” and blubbered and crawled
miserably back under his tank again. On
the verandah roof a navvy sat patiently, stripped
to his flannel, holding aloft his shirt tied to a
clothes prop. In his blighted mind he was a
wreck at sea, or a castaway on a desert island.
There was much disturbance inside, and two
somnolent men were seated on the verandah,
nursing bottles. “ Hello ! ” said Bill the teamster
to one of these, “what’s on here?” One man
opened an eye. “ Huh ?” he said. Bill repeated
his query. “Why, a weddin’s on,” answered the
man, and shut his eye again. “ Who’s wedding ? ”
The man opened his eye once more, and looked
thoughtful. Then he kicked his drowsy companion.
“Wake up, Tom,” he cried. “Here’s bloke
wantsh know whose weddin’s this. Whose ish
it ? ” “ Yours, of course, you damfool! ” said Tom.
The alleged bridegroom was silent for nearly a
minute, then he yelled suddenly and wildly :
“Yerliar!” He arose and fell on Tom. “Yer-
liar !” he repeated. Tom awoke and fought him.
They fought for five minutes, and the teamster
and I looked on. Nobody else seemed to care.
The fight weakened and faded out. “ What the
Devil ’re we fightin’ for, Dick?” said Tom.
“Dunno,” replied Dick, vaguely. “Le’ me
think.” He thought with his head against the
verandah post. He recollected. “Yerliar!” he
said. “You said ’twas my funeral.” We left
them resuming hostilities, and went inside.
Baker’s house was full of drunken navvies, among
whom Tom and Dick presently introduced their
dispute as to the identity of the bridegroom. Five
fights followed, but the happy man remained
unidentified. This was too warm for us, and we
passed on to Craven’s, where we found Mrs.
Baker in refuge with her baby. The festivity at
Baker’s was really a christening.
* * * •
“ Edyson ” : I’ve come across scores of
people living in hollow trees, and at Gordon
(Vic.) I knew a family of five that resided for
months in a prostrate gum after being thrown off
a mortgaged farm. But, so far, Mooney is the
only man of my acquaintance who actually lived
up a tree. Mooney’s arboreal abode was in
a huge stringybark about four miles from Clunes.
The tree was quite hollow, and had an abnormal
formation up at the first fork, where it mush-
roomed like an enormous melon. This “blow”
was hollow too. Mocney floored it, gouged a
window in one side and a hole for a stove
pipe in the roof, cut a back door through,
and lived there happily ever after. He
ascended to his aerial cabin by means of
rungs across the interior of the hollow butt,
and was vastly proud of the humble home.
Indeed I think he lived there out of pure vain-
glory. He constructed a back-yard—a platform
along two projecting limbs, with a railing round
it—and often sat out there reading in the cool of
the evening. Mooney was a fossicker by occupa-
tion, but did wood-cutting and harvesting as a
side line. He married a Clunes widow and led
her home, but the lady took one scared glance at
her expected place of residence and incontinently
broke the contract. She fled back to Clunes and
subsequently secured a judicial separation, which
seemed a wholly superfluous proceeding, as she
absolutely refused to go up and Mooney stub-
bornly declined to come down.
* * * * 9
“ Spring ” writes
The publican is the barometer of the ups-and-downs of
the towns Outback. The quarter sessions in these places
rank as an event. Among events, the show comes first,
the elections second, the funeral of a distinguished citizen
ranks third, and the sessions are fourth. But should
there be a drought the show is likely to be abandoned.
The elections come only about every three years. A dis-
tinguished citizen is gathered in about every six years,
because there are not many distinguished blokes to gather.
Therefore, though the sessions are not the drunkest event,
they are the most reliable.
YVhen his Honor is presented with a pair of white gloves
as an evidence that there is no accused available to wag
his quaint horse-hair at, there are no traces of joy on the
countenances of the worthy citizens. No ! Blank des-
pair, unbecoming gloom, depression, surliness, inhospi-
tality, fear of impending disaster, specks before the eyes,
giddiness, sense of fulness after meals, anger and insomnia
are the chief characteristics of the citizens when they
discover that the district is free from crime. But con-
sider the thrill when young Jim Daly suddenly rises up
one cheerful wet Saturday afternoon, and pots his pa with
his grandfather’s muzzle-loader, because the aged victim
persisted in working him to death for nothing a week and
corned horse ; or the scurry when the police are out after
the wretched cocky across the ranges who is suspected
of stealing Squattah McMean’s jumbucks. Imagine, in
the everfings, the long lengths of roads, cart tracks, horse
tracks, sheep tracks dotted with travellers on horseback,
in spring carts or on foot—all hurrying to town to hear
the details.
Some outer-track publicans organise race-meetings in
order to gather the shekels over the bar; but if some
obliging persons commit a few deeent, blood-thirsty
crimes at reasonable intervals the races are allowed to go
by the board. It generally takes a month or two for the
mills of the law to grind out a verdict. During all this
time revenue is filtering into the pockets of the publican,
tobacconists, and others in trade. When at last the great
week or so of the sessions actually arrives, the publican
engages help to pass out beverage to the horde of witnesses
and friends of witnesses and chaps who know the accused
and the accused’s father before he was married to accused’s
mother, blokes who knew the accused mother’s people
before she was hitched up to accused’s father, friends and
relations of accused’s best girl and the various lots of
unknown distant relations of the party concerned. They
bave all digged themselves out to come and be with their
relatives in the. hour of trouble. Then there are the
accused’s rivals in the pursuit of the accused’s best girl,
and the rivals’ friends. These are especially welcome to
the publican, as they are usually willing to get up argu-
ments anent the accused’s character and conduct in the
past, and they generally drink and shout plenty in order
to submerge their gladness. Also serious fights may-
come of the arguments, and further court cases and trials.
These considerations make mine host good to gaze upon.
Is it any wonder, then, that “no sessions" sounds the
knell of the publican’s hopes?
PLAIN MURDER.
DRUM (who is making some terrible gashes in his efforts to learn shearing): “ Hey. Tar 'ere l
Tar ’ere!”
TAR BOY : “ Say, you don't want a tar BRUSH, you leant a tar dip for that animal!"
“ Janor” : The white flour of the bush-
man’s life does not often bloom into damper
nowadays. Made of flour, salt and water, and
baked in ashes, it was a solid food, and stuck
closer than the very worst sort of brother. The
modern substitute is bloated with baking powder,
fired in a camp oven, and known as “ powder
bread.” The Australian bushman is the cham-
pion baking-powder worrier of the earth, though,
strange to say, he is firmly convinced of the
powder’s baneful effect on his innards, and tells
weird stories on the subject. A good second to the
“ powder loaf ”is the “ Johnny cake,” It is vari-
ously known as the “charcoal tart” or the
“ blanker on the coals.” It is a small, thin, round
cake, baked brown (and ofttimes black) on top of
fresh embers. “Puff-de-lunds ” are chunks of
dough fried in fat, and they play Ancient
Nicholas with the digestion. Mostly a bul-
locky’s delicacy. Derivation of “ puff-de-
lund ” unknown. Then there is the
“leather jacket,” a thin film of batter
fried in a greased pan. So frail are
they that one may devour them
faster than one’s mate turns them
off, though most mates are not
built that way. The “bush pan-
cake ” is another batter proposition
that causes innumerable camp rows.
It eats all right when wild duck,
mallee hen, or even emu eggs are
contiguous, but lacking eggs it is very
deadly. At times the doughboy bobs
up—that’s when such is on tap, which
isn’t every day in the bush. In many
camps the Sunday plum-duff is a fixed
item on the menu. There are old bushmen
who boast that they haven’t missed the
Sabbath “spotted dog’’for 40 years. A
small proportion of bushmen dodge all
these forms f>f flour and powder, and
bake yeast bread, mostly of excellent quality.
Nowhere have I eaten finer yeast bread than that
made by bushmen ; but it is too troublesome and
takes up too much time for the average bushie, so
he hustles through on dynamite and dyspepsia.
The queerest postman The Bulletin has
heard of so far was captured the other day by the
pilot crew at Goode Island, in Torres Strait. It
was a seagull; and it carried its mail bound
around one of its legs. There was only one letter
by that post; and as the Goode Islanders don’t
know where to deliver the script, they send it,
crumpled and stained by sea-water, to this office.
Dropping out names, it runs this way :
Thursday Island,
Torres Strait.
My dear, —I hope you are quiet well. You make money
and don’t smoke or take clapchis, and by and bye we
married. If you got chance will you come to see me, if I
don’t see you I feel so sad, I am very thin. If you think
me will marry somebody take me but my heart think of
you day and night. That time 1 hear you been come and
I wait from you from morning to night, and please take
me. I remain yours loving wife.
It’s a touching state of affairs when a love-torn
damsel of Japan has to hang her message to a
gull’s leg on the off chance of the bird dropping
dead at the feet of her wandering lover ; but pos-
sibly if she hung enough messages to enough
birds the miracle might come off sooner or later.
Judging by “clapchis”—which is Anglo-Japanese
for “slopchest”—the wandering lover is on one
of the pearling schooners.
“ Janor ” : Settlers on the Vic. coast are,
as a rule, “ slimmer” than the example presented
by “Malacoota” (B. 26/8/’O9). One wreck, I
remember well, yielded a large and varied crop of
sundries to the dwellers by the Great Water.
One family harvested many cases of the cursed
drink, and its luck was SO'bruited abroad that
even the police heard of it; whereupon they
descended on the unlicensed grog magnate with
great suddenness, waving a search warraht. But
the search did not yield even a cork. The raided
one was in no way offended, and affably tendered
SHE WORE THE TROUSERS.
PASSING STRANGER (looking for a job): “Mornin’.
Could I see the boss for a minute? ”
SON OF THE HOUSE: “ Yes, there she is, layin'
down th ’ law to th’ ole man.”
the searchers refreshment (non-alcoholic); and,
while the}' refreshed, the force complimented him
on his extensive and well-kept garden. The
sergeant, a garden enthusiast, found fault with
his host’s ornamentation of the borders, and
argued volubly that herbs and such like were
more picturesque and useful than the inverted
dead marine. The host agreed, and reckoned
he’d root out the bottles; and the John Dunns
had not long departed when the whole family fell
on the garden, and the bottles disappeared in
quick order, and were stored away for future
reference. There wasn’t a dead marine in the
whole regiment. '
DOREEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I wiah’t yeh meant it, Bill.” O 'ow me ’eart
Went out to ’er that ev’nin’ on the beach.
I knoo she weren’t no ordinary tart,
My little peach!
I tell yeh, square ’n’ all, me ’eart stood still
To ’ear ’er say, “ I wish’t yeh meant it, Bill.”
To ’ear ’er voice ! . It’s gentle sorter tone,
Like soft dream-music of some Dago band.
An’ me all out; an’ ’oldin’ in me own
’Er little ’and.
An’ ’ow she blushed ! O, strike ! it wus divine
The way she raised ’er shinin’ eyes to mine.
’Er eyes 1 Soft in the moon ; such boshter eyes !
An’ when they sight a bloke. . . O, spare me days !
’E goes all loose inside ; such glamor lies
In ’er sweet gaze. ..
It makes ’im all ashamed of wot ’e’s been
To look inter the eyes of my Doreen.
The wet sands glistened, an’ the shinin’ moon
Shone yeller on the sea, all streakin’ down.
A band was playin’ some sorft, dreamy toon ;
An’ up the town
We ’eard the distant tram-cars vyhir an’ clash.
An’ there I told ’er ’ow I’d done me dash.
“ I wish’t yeh meant it.” Struth 1 An’did I, fair?
A bloke ’ud be a dawg to kid a skirt
Like ’er. An’ me well knowin’ she wus square.
It ’ud he dirt.
’E’d be no man to point with ’er, an’ kid.
I meant it honest; an’ she knoo I did.
She knoo. I’ve done me block in on ’er straight.
A cove ’as got to think some time in life
An’ get some decent tart ere it’s too late
To be ’is wife.
But Gawd ! ’oo would ’a’ thought it could ’a’ been
My luck to strike the likes of ’er ? . . . Doreen 1
Aw, I can stand their chuckin’ off, I can.
It’s 'ard ; an’ I’d delight to take ’em on.
The dawgs ! But it gets that way with a man
When ’e’s fair gone.
She’ll sight no stoush ; an’ so I 'ave to take
Their mag, an’ do a duck for ’er sweet sake.
For ’er sweet sake I’ve gone an’ chucked it clean :
The pubs an’ schools an’ all that leery game.
Fer when a bloke ’as come to know Doreen,
It ain’t the same.
There’s ’igher things, she ses, for blokes to do.
An’ I am ’art believin’ that it’s true.
Yes, ’igher things —that wus the way she spoke ;
An’ when she looked at me I sorter felt
That bosker feelin’ that comes o’er a bloke,
Ah’ makes ’im melt :
Makes ’im all ’ot to maul ’er, an’ to shove
’ls arms about ’er. Blime I but it’s love !
That’s wot it is. An’ when a man ’as grown
Like that ’e gets a sorter yearn inside
To be a little ’ero on ’is own ; s
An’ see the pride
Glow in the eyes of ’er ’e calls ’is queen ;
An’ ’ear ’er say ’e is a shine ehampeen.
“ I wish’t yeh meant it,” I can ’ear ’er yet,
My bit o’ fluff ! The moon was shinin’ bright,
Turnin’ the waves all yeller where it set—,
A bonzer night!
The sparklin’ sea all sorter gold an’ green ;
An’ on the pier the band—O, ’Ell!. . . Doreen !
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Hotel
A ustra/ia
TARIFF:
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
McKenzies excelsior baking powder.
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties .
Send full particulars, with all plans and reports
available, to “ MINE,” care d. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 26 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift'and all Modern Conveniences.
- Tel. 32L
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
H '
■
FOR
J
More Miles PefwHdnUhan Anv Oth mfima
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
“ Iyles Innison”: Abdul Singh, who
patiently plugs the camel across the Sunset
Silences, is a whole hog for law. He rushes to
consult Gentleman One on the slightest provoca-
tion. The money which the average white man
squanders on drink or horse, Abdul cheerfuly
spends in trying to convince a generally unsympa-
thetic Court that every other nigger but himself is
a rogue, and not fit to be at large. At Broken Hill
the other day several of Spruce Myth’s unde-
sirable brothers were severely fined for assaulting
a white person who had had the audacity to im-
pound their dromedaries. During the hearing of
the case I sat amongst a varied assortment of
dark colors, variegated head-gears, and unsancti-
fying odors, and hearkened to the weird and
wonderful versions of Abdul and the witness who
is Hooshta. An Afghan in the witness-box is a
living monument to pigheadedness and irrele-
vancy. The Sphinx, which has kept its mouth
judiciously shut for several thousand years, would
be a voluble witrless compared with a brown
camel-puncher who doesn’t want to say the things
that really matter. As a general rule, the Out-
back magistrate fines the irrelevant and tail-
swearing defendant, and gives substantial Costs
against the irrelevant and hard-swearing plaintiff.
To fine one lot and make the other lot pay Costs
is the only reasonable way of making sure ; and,
anyway, if Abdul doesn’t deserve punishment for
the misdemeanors he is charged with, he generally
deserves more for the ones he isn’t charged with.
And if he doesn’t deserve it at the time he is sure
to deserve it later on.
* * * ■*
Another Australian “ desert ” has been
killed dead. The S.A. Government lately sent
out a well-sinking party to open up a stock route
whereby cattle can be driven down through the
western part (the Victoria river district) of the
Northern Territory to Adelaide. The party went
forth into the dry lands, and everywhere it found
abundant water at a depth of 10ft. or less. And
at Oodnadatta in Central Australia, on the line of
the proposed Port Darwin-Port Augusta railway
line, artesian water has been struck at 650 ft., the
flow being 320,000 gallons a day. In one way And
another the innards of this continent are looking
up.
CONSTANT STANDING.
"Did ycr have a good time down in Sydney,
Bill? ”
"No!”
"’Ow's that?”
"Not a blarsted fence to sit on.”
A FOOLISH QUESTION.
POSTMASTER (asking regula-
tion question): “ Where
do you expect to get the
letter from? ”
MULGA BILL: “Why, from
this orfice, o’ course!
What yer expect I come
for?”
“ Cross Nibs ” has some oysters
I reeled into Pietro Prodinoistre)s saloon, t’other Satur-
day night, intent upon absorbing certain marine merchan-
dise. He greeted me with the effusiveness he reserves for
prompt-paying guests. “ Good nigh’, Beel ; taka the
leeds offia tha rockfruit?”, he inquired, “ It’s yobr job
on a dozen of the widest! ” I replied. As he poised his
lethal weapon preparatory to lifting the roof from a
molusc’s residential flat, my attention was drawn to an
unfamiliar sombre stain trespassing upon the optic he
looks round the corner with. Quoth I : “ Pietro, old
pirate, how conieth it that obscuration hath perched upon
thy sinister orb ? ”
’Twas then, what time an incandescent glow radiated
from his unimpaired organ of Vision, he lifted up his growl
in the following passionate paean :
“ You knowa tha blitty pioomber nex’door. Foura a
weeka ago ’e starta da jeemanasteek club. Rv’ry night you
hera them go lika ’ell doin’ the box ’n’ da seenglesteek.
All a time da feet go lika skeetles failin’ ’n’ dey blow, lika
da ploora booleek. Verra of’n it come tha bang, heef,
bang ’n dey howl lika tha dog that weara tha chain all
tha time ’n’ seea the kitchen door no open. One, doo,
dree week pass, den I see da lan law n tell heem it
spila da beesness ’n’ I can no make da, mon ! paya da rent.
Tha wood parteesh I pointa to heem ’n’ show how da oyst
’op outa da bag when dey playa da pug. Next day ’e
give Meesta Tintubbe notis to sheeft or stop da jeemana-
steek. That nigh ’e getta mooch dreenk ’n’ coom ’n’
make da face ata me, ’n’ calla me da blitty coda-face cow,
•n’ speet big on da Boor, ’n’ me leetle foxa-terrier stoppa
da boot. Gastrikatnadi, I geeta mad. I feel lika da bull
tied up in da barb-a-wire. You see ’e gitta tena bob da
week from dem who do-a da box ’n’ he no care about
loosa da seelver. ’E tella me before’e leeva da shop e
raffle me f’r ole bottil if I git heem da sheeft.
“ Larsa nigh’ dev maka da game verra ’ot. Da pateesh
shake lika da cradle when da, chile no lika da sleep.
Verra soon I go round da kitchen getta da wash when I
’ear da blitty smash. I coom soon. Gastroo, off a da
shelf near da’fiateesh ad drop alia da cup ’n’ saurs, dozen a
plate, croo-stan’’n’a beeg meelk jug. My blood fill up
me head when I look ’n’ see da littla pup squeezing da
paeper ’n’ vin’gar out from ’ees looks. I joomp like da
bullfrog inta da gaspipe shop, ’n’ aska Tintubbe who paya
da damage. ’E laugh lika da sound of da crosscut saw
’n’ tell me ta buzz away ’n’ bust lika der crockeree.
Ah-a-a-a, I geeve heem da gran’ poonch on da ear straight
off, ’n’ da jeemanasteek club gimme de ’ooray. A
beeg ginger cove sings out 1 Dree ta one on Shark-soup .
’n’ den a man with a bend nose yells, ‘ Tear inter heem
lika da tram, Tintubbe.’ Nexa thing I know wuz blitty
lira works, ’n’ dis eye catch da pain. Ino wanta da oox
then, I playa da lettla treek dey ’ave in our countree. I
maka da cleench weth Tintubbe ’n’ getta tha two and
greep on tha short reebs, ’ta’ ’ees eyes stand out lika da
crab, ’n’ ’e get verra seek. Da bend nose man
den ’ drive ees feest ata me, an’ I see whata
you call da peeroteekneeks wid da eye I see
dem alia before weeth. ’E was fixin’ his han’ ta light up
da room again, when da ginger cove jump in li heef
’eeth queek an’ alive, ’n’ ’e drop on da galvani iron n
bleed. Den da whole club do da box ’n’ I'sleep put da
back ’n’come ’ome. Verra soon I ’ear da police coom
’n’ da push rushjika ,da footaballer -troo da back door n
joomp da fence. I tink I fry da feesh no verra well ’n’ no
ifinda tha customer frighten when da wall shake. Mmda
tha shop, Beef, while I getta da lemon ! ”
Then Pietro, having slain the required number of
bivalves, wiped his hands upon a faded towel. Finishing
this operation, he departed to the fruitery opposite to
secure the flavoring that “ maka da oyst eat verra good .
Robert Schloesser, a well-known mining
man, and formerly a State inspector of mines in
N. S. Wales, gives his testimony
t have read with interest Tiik Bulletin's articles ad-
vocating the Oodnadatta-Pine Creek route for the trans-
continental railway, and with all the more interest be-
cause ! went all through the McDonnell Ranges in 1905.
My route was by coach from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs,
thence by camel and horse through Arlturiga, Claraville,
and 200 miles beyond, and around Mounts Powell, Brasse.v,
Stewart, etc. My mission was to report on the mica re-
sources of the country ; and I found, and was shown, at
least 40 different outcrops, some worked, some unworked.
I have no doubt there were as many more off my line of
travel. I mined and exported two tons of dressed
material, and averaged; 3d. to 9d. per lb. for unselected
dark material. Of course, to-day, transport swallows all
profit. I saw copper, tin and lead country, besides some
promising gold.country. I have no sort of. doubt that a
railway would open out new mineral fields of great value.
The country had plenty Of grass and sufficient water for
large mobs'of cattle and “ remounts.”
THE REPLY INTERROGATIVE.
“ Work in’, Bill?”
"Do I look like it?"
MY TROUBLES!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two months has the seed, to-day,
Lain an’ rotted in the groun’,
While the Fates, with fitful play,
Whirl the dry clouds roun’ an’ roun’—
An’ my landlord wears a frown—
Mr troubles !
Not a bean is mine to spend—
Debt an’ dire disaster stare
Me an’ many a cocky friend,
Jes’ becos’ we trust an’ dare !
Though my land an’ throat are dry—
My troubles!
City folk may count it strange
That we bushies face the foe ;
Face the drought on plain an’ range
With our hearts unscared by woe !
It’s all in the game, you know —
My troubles 1
There will come a time, an’ soon,
When, like seed, we’ll seek the sod,
An’ the whistlin’ winds will croon
Pleas, becos we trusted God !
Trusted God unto the end —
My troubles !! 1
VICTORIA.
P. WINKLE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be tween of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
tent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Venus O'Neil: Not wicked, as you were told
—only bad, which is worse.... C.M. : Electric hotel funni-
ment short-circuited Merrijig: Gallery description
wants animation. Try it on the paper you name... .O .
Elementary if informative narratives about rats not
appreciated Charlie Steele: Whatever made jou
imagine that this paper wants to publish detailed
accounts of a steamer’s cargo being discharged? Also
you don’t adjust compasses with “Sextons.” Sextons
are grave-digging persons. R. J. Edmunds.' “ Wetsome
ballad” drowned.. ..En : Ghastly puns about the Pole
too melancholy for more words. ...P.T.B. : As you beauti-
fully observe:
Of Cook and Peary
We’re getting weary.
. ...Melroyd : Why did you doit. ...A. Cl.orlton : Jim-jams
poems and spring-onions ditto sniffed at by both papers...
W.P.D. : Sorry “Cyrano” affected you that way
H.L.D. : “Sonnet originally composed by you for our
criticism” collapsed under treatment C.S.G. : May
use... Lucifer: Too thin and wearying Yates Beeby :
Ten short poems with 365 different- metres. We like
variety, but that’s overdoing it. Hero of story too
Josephish, and heroine-too Mrs. Potipharesque and Marie
Dashmyshirtskeff for these pages... .Ambitieux : “ The
depradatory clock that robbed you of beauty, youth and
innocence ” must be a notable piece of mechanism. The
rest is maudlin sentimentality... .A. Tynne Tacke : Don t
care if the lady left half a dozen sons in every Australian
capital. Heartless and stupid joke about Waratah
thrown into the W.P.8., where it rests by your potato
poem.. ..N.F. : Poor parody... .The Carrier: “Verse-
writing is OHly a pastime with me.” Yes, but ponder the
parable of “Theßoysand the Frog.”... .J.C.: Reminiscent
of Eugene Aram?.... J.C.B. :If every subscriber to apaper
had a right to have everything or anything he wrote
published, there’d- soon be no paper, and consequently
no subscribers. So this paper only prints what it
thinks fit. In which category your poems are n0t....
Mrs. E.C.C. : We don’t agree with your admiring friends.
.... Warrenjella : The most beautiful stanza :
On the Salt-Bush Plains the swagmen stride,
And the grim, grim boundary-riders ride ;
They are grim because of the grimsome way
They ride o’er the blazing plains by day.
....bin: No harm trying. No. 2 missed the mark
easily Acestes : Good sentiment—bad verses....
Rosary : Sorry you’re So sorry. But “ Visions, etc.,” too
dashed melancholy for circulation in any place but a
cemetery... J.H.: Pusan in praise of First Love judiciously
suppressed.... 8.8.8. : May use one M. 8.: Cheer up.
You’ll get level with those “ worthless sisters, wastrel
dames.” But not if you stop at the foot of the stairs,
writing poems....J. Christopher: Too long and thin.
So was the other. Still, go ahead... .Toolooa: Barring
announcement that pugilist Johnson “ is but a heedless
wall,” no points in “Not Responsible.” E.J.8.: Sung
so blooming often before... G.M.L. : Humorous foot-
ball atrocity violently, kicked out. Also “the weari-
some things that come and go” (G.M.L.)— your verses
about gibbering shapes—have now gone for good
O.J.W. : Mounts and sights for some British guns are
made in Germany ; but Britain can apparently manage
all the rest itself.. ... Ex. Aus. : Not found worthy ; far
from it. . .Mollie Bawn.: Bumpy poem about wattle and
home-sick youth bumped some more W.T. :" A deep
bass lugubrious lay ” Don’t know about the quality
of the thing’s voice, but the rest is right.. Freckles:
Amiable little verses hereby let down lightly C.
Gregory: Too weepful for publication Strathnaver:
Both masterpieces too good for u 5.... Phcenix : Ginger
didn’t lick “The Drover’s Yarn” into shape, anyway,
for it hasn’t got any shape ...Labby: Marmalade about
Sydney a bit off-color John Mclntosh: Fair verse, but.
bit too local W.K. :It strikes us as rather a good
advertisement. You need to _be , pretty big before an
angry paper a whole continent away tries to get square
with you by writing, about your alleged decadence. If
you are a small concern you can’t even rouse the man
next door sufficiently for that Kanakalander : For
whom should you vote? Well, you don’t give the name
of your electorate, so here’s the lot :
Balonne .. .. .. K. M. LAND
Barcoo .. .. .. T. J. RYAN
Bowen .. .. M. FERRICKS
_.. v . . /THOS. WILSON
Brisbane North .. • ■ | J G- SMITH
Brisbane South .. .. J. HUXHAM
Bulimba .. .. .. J. S. COLLINGS
Bulloo .. .. .. B. F. S. ALLEN
Bundamba .. .. D. GLEDSON
Bundaberg .. .. G. P. BARBER
Burke . .. .. CHAS. COLLINS
Burnett ALF. JONES
Burrum .. .. ROBL HODGE
Carnarvon .. .. T. CRAWFORD
Carpentaria .. .. THOS. NEVITT
\ „ \ JOHN MULLAN
Charters Towers.. ■ ■ ) y. WINSTANLEY
Drayton & Toowoomba.. J. O'MAY
Enoggera .. .. . J- TATE
Fitzroy JAMES CRAWFORD
Flinders JOHN MAY
_, _ , .. .. /D. BOWMAN
Fortitude Valley • • \ P . A . M LACHLAN
Gregory .. .. .. W. HAMILTON
„ " . /D. MULCAHY
Gympie .. .. ■\ G. RYLAND
Herbert .. .. .. WM. LENNON
Ipswich .. .. .. W. R. MAUGHAN
Kennedy ~ .. .. JAMES O’SULLIVAN
Leichhardt .. .. H. F. HARD ACRE
... / G. MARTENS
Macka y \C. G. MUNRO
Maranoa .. .. .. J. M. HUNTER
.. , . |W. MITCHELL
Maryborough .. ••)W. F. JONES
Mitchell J. PAYNE
Murilla .. .. .. JAS. GREDDEN
Musjrrave .. .. T. W. WALKER
Port Curtis .. E. D. J. BRESLIX
0 u „ /C.W. C. BLUETT
Rockhampton .. E. B. PURNELL
Rockhampton North .. D. C. DOWLINfj
Rosewood ALEX. M’LEAN
~, IT. FOLEY
TownBVllle j A. S. AUSTIN
Toowong W. R. WARMINQTUN
Warrego .. .. ..J.H. COYNE
Wide Bay W. P. BURTON
Woollooiigabba .. .. W. BERTRAM
Woothakata .. E. THEODORE
Just gum that lot in your hat, if you have one, gild vote
early.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CoNTItI (jUTORS.
Fet: Doesn’t score this time... .A.H.8.: Will try, though
it’s very little use sending' a stamp after contributions
have been rejected, and a “ Please return ” notq with the
stamp. When stamps are not enclosed, it’s token to
mean “ If this thing’s no good to you it’s no good to me.”
Raynor: Barring the beer-drinker’s nose, (jpere are
no features about the picture.


AV’eice " Whefe does
tf/e tnoney fwm f'W'""Y
StnAfor Dobsoh!-"
of "h <•> own
M'-P"
5?m6?7 /he,
pr jblicht- 61
Wfc, qcTirj'irtf:
sar ./
< {H£.
A\£ |r c
V e Knew, of Course, W-wenT
in > Out we did nf'Know if" A
CiK've. oat - )
S*w o .11/T
%L l stf w*.^
‘ O%<o O (la^Jst^
/ A l»{t"At”~
T/e
3A* r > ,v > Premoier
+o cliwil) ou'T'on a
“
lJ*T* Mor-f^ a
-first- ° r /**i~
''fiVna lie Will liA^e
done a I'd'le .•• ,
•frvckr L
Jr/c "to
mow 2Col«»)ns'HeA <i le<i ,
SanA^li^' b «'7 < C a
no {"or do •
Delin’.'- A sjr* l ' "We
MO laws •'A+her
" if An ! 1 A
If~ l<j Argued
'fo ChirtA,
Ch'nese CAnnot" Sea t/te,
$Ii pMesP"oVjec'fiow,
their tiere. •
" You We '[lee lan oWy JaUce, ■ —
me Vv e {lee lun Q V y &ttr<t J “
THINGS SEEN IN MELBOURNE.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Great Oaks from Little Acorns Grow.
That dread disease, consumption, has its com-
mencement in a-cold on the chest. Don’t leave-it
until it is too late. You can promptly cure your
cold with Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Price
Is. 6d, and 3s. *
So much prominence has been given to the
danger lurking in a bottle of medicine containing
opium or other narcotics, that it is the duty of
every mother to know something about the medi-
cine she is giving her child.
The stranger in the Gardens saw a tree.
The gardener was a man of some jocosity.
“ What is that tree?” the stranger asked, and he
Was one who spoke with hauteur and pomposity.
“That tree,” replied the gardener (we’ll agree
The pun was little short of an atrocity),
“ Is more esteemed than all the rest by me ;
I call it Woods’ Great Peppermint Curiosity !”*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Rather belatedly comes news of Rupert.
Clarke’s new motto : “ Connie Waugh qui mat y
pense.”
“ Sandshifter ” writes of a strange edifice,
by the sea :
The Drill Hall at Brighton (Vic.) is a wooden structure
located in a dark side street of that lonesome seaside
suburb. Whenever an election meeting is due the in-
habitants of Brighton wander off into the hinterland of
Bent’s old kingdom, and by-and-bye someone finds the
Drill Hall lurking in the gloom, and goes in and sits down.
The rest follow up like sheep, the function is held,,
and when it is over all retire, and the strange old barn is
left brooding in the wilderness. The Drill Hall was
Bent’s Vatican; there he addressed the faithful, and
there on rare occasions the faithful addressed him.
Shortly before his death the patron saint of the district
was entertained at a musical evening. During a pause-
in the proceedings a motion was put and declared
carried, which congratulated Thomas on his recent mag-
nificent whitewashing, and assured him that he possessed
the confidence of the electorate, and had its sympathy in
his tail pocket. Bent feelingly responded in a speech
which measured 14ft. from snout to tail, and said that,
five of the seven men who constituted the Commission
were biassed against him. The hand-fed Brightonites
listened placidly to the tirade, and, after being thanked for
their continued support, thumped the floor with their
brollies and filed out to the wild, dark night. Old resi-
dents assert that the man who was chased out of Europe
for congratulating Napoleon after Waterloo was one of
the founders of Brighton, and that he built the Drill Hall
with his own hands. If the legend is true, it helps to
°xplain the Drill Hall and the strange tilings that happen*
inside it.
MIXING THINGS,
THE REFOROBMED MERCHANT : “ Yes, Mr. McPhail,
I am a reformed man as a result of the
mission. I’ve raised my employees’ salaries.”
MR. McPHAIL : " Mon, that is a great meestake.
You shouldna introduce the financial question,
into your releegious life.”
Like Orion, Tom Mann will shortly be
sloping steeply to the West, In fact, he pro-
poses returning to England, and the Melbourne
Labor bodies are arranging a concert and art
union to raise the wind for his passing. It seems
strange that a man who has raised so much dust
shouldn’t be able to raise the wind himself.
Foster Fraser, in his Sydney lecture on
Russia, made much fun of the fact that in a
Russian town which he visited they had two
mayors. He threw those two mayors (in effigy,
of course) upon a screen. There they stood, with
two medals on their mayoral breasts, to distin-
guish them from the common fellows who dressed
like them ; and while Mr. Foster Fraser joked
about the fact that this miserable, ignorant, hope-
lessly comic Russian town had two mayors, the
superior audience of Sydney people, living in a
city which has J+l mayors, went into fits of laugh-
ter at the ludicrous absurdity of the Russian way
of doing things. What a keen sense of humor
some people have !
The London organ-grinder who
(claimed to be the rightful Earl
IPoulett, and dreamed uselessly of a
(coronet whilst the monkey scratched
Ihimself at the end of his chain, is
<dead of blasted hopes in Holborn
V 'orkhouse. So the world has missed
the chance of seeing an ex-organ-
grinder sit in the Lords and bellow
denunciations of Asquith’s Budget.
The Bulletin might have had some
sympathy for the alleged mislaid
Earl if he had only been a pirate or
a body-snatcher. By choosing the
noisome profession of organ-grinder,
and carting round a beast with
three quarts of fleas distributed over
it, he disqualified himself. No human
being should be allowed to extort his
living from the public with the aid
of an obscene tailed animal, three
quarts of fleas, and a box of discords
on one wooden leg. If he is allowed
to live and turn the handle unharmed
ihe is getting more than his deserts.
The second election of Arthur
Lynch (ex Irish-Boer soldier) by an
Irish constituency recalls the story
that his pardon, after his conviction
:for high treason, was wrenched from
the Balfour Government by Ned VII.
Wishing to conciliate the people in
order to pave the way for his visit to
Ireland in 1907, the King ascertained
from Sir Tea Lipton, who was in touch with th«
Irish party, that the best idea was to release
some political prisoners. The Balfour Cabinet,
however, refused. This angered Ed. VII., who is
.said to have pounded the table with great vigor
and declared, “I’m damned if I’m going to rule
over a country I daren’t visit.” The Cabinet
caved in, and Lynch, who had already had his
death sentence commuted to gaol for life, was
released, along with other prisoners concerned in
the land agitation. Lynch came originally from
.Smythesdale (Vic.).
Chief Justice Darley (N.S.W.), now on his
final holiday in England, commenced his 80th
year on September 19. He was born in Leeson-
.street, Dublin, in 1830, his father being Henry
Darley, solicitor, a clerk in Chancery ; his mother
a daughter of Jacob West, a Dublin silversmith.
His grandfather had been Sheriff, Lord Mayor
and Police Magistrate, and his grandmother was
a Guinness of the XX stout brand.
“Locust” : ’Enley, Hem.L.A. of N.S.W.
Parliament and the Water and Sewerage Board,
is a pervert from the cause of Greater Sydney.
Eight years ago he was plastering the city and
suburbs with pamphlets, letters to the press, and
.general literature proclaiming the necessity of
.a Greater Sydney Council. He now draws
*£sso in salary as an M.P. and a Water and
.Sewerage representative, and no longer desires to
.see a change. The suburban aldermen make up
it.be constituency which elects him to the Water
.and Sewerage Board (fees, £250). Still that, of
course, would have nothing to do with his change
<o£ conviction. He is horror-stricken at a pro-
posal which may obliterate the 550, or 5050, or
5,000,050 aldermen who infest the 41, or 401, or
4001, or 4,000,001 municipal bodiesaround Sydney.
(Please check these figures, as there is much un-
certainty existing as to the actual number of
councils and aldermen.)
Particulars are out of the will of a philan-
thropic oddity whom Victoria lost about two
months ago—Miss E. Meglin. Her
brother struck it lucky in boom
time, and left his two sisters
£30,000. One sister died soon after
the brother, and Miss E. Meglin
then lived alone, first in East Mel-
bourne and latterly at Diamond
Creek. The old lady had a weird
fashion of sailing into town with
her lunch in a small tin, and from
20 to 200 sovereigns loose in a
black bag dangling from her arm.
Suddenly she, would start in and
buy anything she came across.
Such items as seven cholera'belts,
73 wallaby-skins, heaps of rat-traps
and 20 dog handkerchiefs figured in
the recent auction-list. Unlike
most women, she tipped lavishly ;
and on her oddest days she refused
all change. Her pet hobbies were
Miss Sutherland’s Home and the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals, and to these the bulk
of her fortune goes, after a few personal legacies
have been paid.
Some Australian birthdays for October :
Garnet Walch, 66 on the Ist; Dr. Camidge, of
Bathurst, senior bishop of Australia, 72 on the
:2nd; N. C, Lockyer, of the Customs, 54 on the
6th ; artist Hans Ileysen, 33, and Rose Scott, 62
on the Bth ; Headmaster Chappie (Prince Alfred
College, Adelaide), 64 on the 12th ; Education
Secretary Stanton (S. A.), 66 on the 14th ; Editor
Bonython (Adelaide Advertiser), 61, and J. G,
Duffy, 49 on the 15th; J. R. Fairfax (“Mr.
James,” of the S. M. Herald), 75 on the 17th;
President Wrixon (Vic.), 70, and ex-Australian
wicketkeeper A. H. Jarvis, 49 on the 18th;
Senator W. Russell, 80 on the 20th; Premier
Lewis (Tas.), 51 on the 27th ; ex-Judge Boucaut
(S. A.), 78 on the 29th ; Miss C. H. Spence (of the
Hare-Spence voting system), 84 on the 31st.
It seems that as a Parliamentary whip the
deplorable Bent was more unscrupulous even than
others of his kind. His faithful friend (the
Argus) last week laid these beautiful wreaths
of reminiscence on the dead man’s new-made
grave :
He had an extraordinary gift for managing men. As
Premier he made great use "of this gift, but he displayed it
most during those stirring days when, 30 years ago, he
acted as whip to the energetic and determined Opposi-
tion party which faced the Berry Ministry. Never was
“ whipping ” brought to such a fine art. One of the mem-
bers associated with him throughout that period was
interviewed yesterday. “Mr. Bent was in his prime
then," he said, “ and I never knew a whip so full of
energy, so full of resource, so daring and so suc-
cessful. He knew every trick and every art. .. 1
It was said that when the O’Loghlen Ministry
gained office Mr. Bent promised the same portfolio to
nine different members to induce them to help to put out
the old Ministry. Ido not believe that. It was, I think,
merely a joke ; but it was in keeping with the character
he had gained.”
Quite so—it was in keeping with the character he
had gained 30 years ago, for being the principal
dirty-workman of the Tory party. As whip,
Minister of Railways, Speaker and Premier, he
was always the same—an object of contempt to
straight-thinking people.
A "PEARY” AT THE GATES OF
PARADISE.
REPORTER: "Steady on. You advertised this as
a one-man- ‘ dash!’ Not a two-hundred-and-
forty horse-power curse.”
“ W.M.” on W. A. Holman, Deputy -
Leader N.S.W. Labor party :
W. A. Holman is easily the facile member of the N.S.W.
Parliamentary Labor party. He is fluent, but he is not
forcible and'epigrammatic. The demon of deadly serious-
ness rides heavily on his imagination. Yet he is rhetori-
cally a light and airy weight, with flashes of phraseology
that haunt like eloquence. Holman is a student of books.
He absorbs the printed pdge, and his brain must
be pretty well case-hardened with literature. It is
difficult for a work-a-day fact or a passing revela-
tion to penetrate that crust of compressed reading.
That is why H Jinan wants a long holiday from the
library. That is why he should suffer himself to do a lot
of independent thinking, and forget all about what he has
pigeon-holed in his capacious head-piece. Too much
absorption of Cobdenism kept him mind-proof against
the overwhelming evidence of fiscal facts, obvious and
irresistible to the meanest intelligence. Holman is still a
Freetrader when even Wilks confesses that he is full up
of the mangy, miserable, diseased thing. When Holman
tumbles heavily on his head and cracks it, and thereby
allows a lot of compressed economic literature to escape,
he may be able to do justice to himself.
Mary Lee, just dead in Adelaide at 88, was
one of those luippy people who, having got all
they set out for, sit back contentedly and wait for
death. She was the State’s leading suffragette
before that word was invented ; only, instead of
playing tricks on Premiers and falling foul of the
police, she formed a league, appointed herself
secretary of it, and quietly persevered, by consti-
tutional means, until S. A., first among the States,
gave women a vote 11 years ago. Mrs. Lee did
other good work, notably in the unpopular
capacity of lunatic asylum visitor. A nephew,
Dayid Lee, was long the city organist of Mel-
bourne.
The Chamber of Commerce Congress in
Sydney ended badly for the little contingent from
S. Australia. John Gordon, one of Adelaide’s
best-known business men, picked up an attack of
bronchitis early in the proceedings, and died very
suddenly on Monday from heart failure. Mr.
Gordon was chairman of D. and W. Murray and
Co. Originally that was a fluff-and-calico im-
porting concern; but David Murray first, and,
later on, John Gordon, saw how Australia
was shaping, wherefore little by little they added
a big manufacturing side to the business.
Adelaide has a “made in Australia” show in
practically all its shop windows every year ; and
the success of it is due very largely to the fact that
the big Adelaide warehouse people are manufac-
turers too, and therefore don’t encourage the
retail person to sneer at “ Colonial ” goods. John
Gordon was Scotch goods himself, but he had
been getting acclimatised for just over 40 years.
William Wilson, the first settler to build
a house on the Richmond River (N.S.W.), 70
years ago, was a great land grabber; but he
didn’t have the luck to turn his grabs into free-
THE REVERSE OF THE
GOON STORY.
COOK: “Shoot away, Cap.
Peary, I won’t come
down!”
hold. At one time
he held about 75
miles of river front-
age, now split up
into hundreds of
farms. The Wilson
family, whose resi-
dence was called
‘ ‘ Lismore Hou*e,”
lived there for 30
years, when time
scattered them to
Monaltrie on the
Wyrallah - r bad,
and finally lodged
them at Inver-
cauld. If Wilson
had been able to
get the freehold of
his hunk of terri-
tory, as Cooper
and Wentworth
did, the Richmond
district would now
beasheavily water-
logged as the Cool-
angatta Estate on
the South Coast.
“Old Jack” Ro-
bertson’s Free
Selection Act
helped to turn the
fortune of war
against him, and
it was turned still
further because
old-man Wilson
was a cut above
the dummying schemes commonly practised by
the grabbers of those days.
Colonel Browne, the owner of S. Aus-
tralia’s richest patch—Moorak station, in the
South-east, where they grow the potatoes—was
one of the Waratah’s passengers. He and his
daughter had some idea of having a look round
S’Africa; and it took over a month to ascertain
definitely that it was a very good idea which they
didn’t stick to.
The late Thomas Bent was the living image
of Gilbert’s drawings of the other fat knight, o
Falstaff. Once a political rival told him 1 f fl-
House that he had all the good points of t l * °
but his wit, and Tommy purred delightedly, *
conscious of the fact that Falstaff had no recorc
good points apart from his wit.
The oldest of the ancient mariners, Dap-
tain Samuel Charles, of Sydney, died at Pom
Piper, on the shores of the Harbor, last week, an
was buried on Monday at Eureka private
cemetery, Minnamurra. For 91 years did Sarmm
Charles pursue his earthly pilgrimage, and ne
gave the impression that he had enjoyed every
step of the road. When he left the sea he
went on the land, as all good retired sea-
captains do, and the finding of a profitable
quarry on his property prevented the land turning
dog on him, as it mostly does on the old salt.
There is something pathetic in the ancient sea
man’s belief that a cow steers the same way as a
ship. The captain once con versed with a Tahitian
who reckoned that in his boyhood he had seen
Cyok, the navigator, murdered, and seeing that
Mr. Charles was a vigorous young man in 1838,
and at that time any unreliable nigger of 08
might have seen Cook murdered, this nigger may
have been telling the truth, or he may not. Ihe
captain represented Kiama, where Parkesdug up
his Ghost, from 1874 to 1885. Then Premier
Alex. Stuart sent him to the Upper House. He
arrived there on the same day as Dr. Creed, Bill
Long and Henry Moses—all durable men. A pro-
found contempt for the lamentable borrowing
policy was the old captain’s chief political asset.
Died in London, on the same day as Bent,
Benjamin Josinan Fink, an ex-Victorian M.L.A.,
and numerous other things. Benjamin sat silently
in the Vic. Assembly for a few years in the ’Bo’s.
Mostly he was wrapped up in mining and finance,
and,outof respect for his ventures therein, heought
to be decently buried in the “ Wild Cat” column.
He was interested in various Victorian mines, in-
cluding the Lord Nelson at St. Arnaud and the
Great Southern Consols at Rutherglen. as well
as in Queensland station properties, Newcastle
(N.S.W.) coal properties, and assorted Melbourne
businesses. Also, herevived Melbourne’s Federal
Palace Hotel, and made it a prosperous insti-
tution, and gave to the metropolis the block of
buildings that bears his name at the corner of
Elizabeth and Flinders streets. He leaves rela-
tives to mourn his loss and absorb his money ; and
not the least of them are his brothers, Wolfe and
Theodore. Benjamin was 61 when he died.
MELBOURNE IN THE SPRING.
FIRST PARTY (roaring through the storm to friend
off to England): "Goo'-bye! You’re foolish
to go. The climate’ll kill you!”
Some more Horderniana, by “ Martin
L.”
I saw in a Melbourne office the other day the original
cashbox of brothers Anthony and Lebbius when they were
in business on Brickfield Hill, Sydney. This was the
second Anthony. So much misinformation has been
printed about the bewildering Anthonys that I am moved
to write of them genealogically. Now these are the
generations of the Horderns: Anthony I. married Ann,
daughter of Woodhead, whalebone merchant of London.
Ann was the better man of the two. She was probably
the first London woman to be admitted to partnership
with a man. She helped father Woodhead in his diffi-
culties, practised stay-making as a branch of the whale-
bone business, and married Apthony Hordern, the
coachbuilder. Later the couple sailed for Australia
with the Watchorns (parents of the first Mrs.
W. J. T. Clarke). The Watchorns stayed in
Hobart, en route, and the Horderns went on to
Sydney. Anthony made the first coaches that ran
from Sydney to Parramatta, but he was not a success
commercially. Ann Hordern’s stay shop founded the
family, and the best of them—in a business sense—were
sons of their mother. Now these are the generations of
Anthony and Ann : John and Anthony (twins); Eliza-
beth (who married Dinsmore and died at Gravesend the
other day, aged 84); Lebbius (who died unmarried);
Mary Ann (who married Clowes) ; William and Edward.
John had issue : John L., Edward, Ena and Alfred (the
trading sign of this branch is “Hordern Bros.”).
Anthony 11. had issue: Harriet, Anthony 111., Hannah
and Sam—now all dead. William had issue five—most of
them resident in Melbourne. Edward had issue : Edward
and Percy. Anthony 111. had issue; Anthony
IV., Millie, Nonnie, Anthony Shubra and Arthur.
Ann Hordern, at the first sale of Melbourne land, bought
out of her own savings the Bourke-Russell-Little Collins-
streets block; Bourke-street to Little Bourke-street
(where the Southern Cross Hotel now stands); Flinders-
street to Flinders-lane, between Russell-street and Swan-
ston-street; and 50 acres at Alphington. She and
Anthony moved to Melbourne to live, and there Anthony I.
died in 1869. Ann followed him in 1871. Anthony 11.
and Lebbius started on Brickfield Hill, Sydney, and that
business passed to Lebbius and Edward, and then to
Edward Hordern and Sons. Edward and Percy quarrelled
finally. Percy has retired, and the second Edward is said
to be managing for the business of Anthony Shubra—
Anthony Hordern IV. Anthony 11. then established the
Haymarket business. Tiib Bulletin par. of 26/8/’O9 is the
first to correctly state the values of the men. The brother
Anthony 111. was the daring man, and Sam the safe one.
He was violently opposed to the ambition of Anthony' 111.
for a big business. When Anthony 111. found Sam
determined to stay in the little Haymarket building, he
put up a new building and let the firm have it at 5 per
cent. Anthony 111. went to the Melbourne Exhibition of
1880 to buy the firm’s first showcase, much against Sam’s
advice. Against more of Sam’s advice, Anthony 111. built
a second store in the Haymarket and Ist it to the firm.
When Anthony 111. died, in ’B6, Sam for the first time
realised Anthony’s ambition and bought and built more.
After the fire Sain and the children of Anthony 111.
quarrelled when the time came to rebuild, and the Brick-
field Hill idea started. The first day £lO,OOO was taken
over the counters (Christmas 1883) Anthony 111. was a
proud man. Showing the balance-sheet he said, “I in-
sisted on trying a new thing. You’d never guess what it
is. Lollies, my boy, lollies ! We’ve sold tons of them!”
Anthony 111. was the man of action —the big man of big
things. Sam was the business man—the big man of
careful things; good at detail, but very cautious.
Anthony 11. left £150,000, of which the business and the
Haymarket premises were left to Anthony 111. and Sam ;
the other property was divided among Harriet, Anthony
111., Sam and Hannah—and this is the order of their ages.
Bismillah!
SABBATH GAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Buchan (Congregational) said that his Union stead-
fastly opposed every infringement of the Sabbath, and
was of opinion that nothing in the shape of gain should
lie allowed.—Sydney Morning Hkrald, 17th September,.
IUO9.
Do you think so, Mr. Buchan ? If you do,
There are actions very plainly up to you.
If you verily possess
Your conviction’s pluck, I guess
Your collection-plates will vanish from our view.
As a pastor, you free preaching will accord,
With your seat-rents all abolished, as abhorred,.
That your flock may cease to pay
On the holy Sabbath Day
For their portion of the paddock of the Lord.
I am waiting to pay deference to you
Till you act thus, Mr. Buchan. If you do !
Will you do so, Mr. Buchan ? If you can’t,
It were better less obtrusively to rant ;
And when others see their way
To acquire some Sunday pay
Surely you should cease to tell them that they shan’t,.
For I think I hear them answering you—“ Pooh !
You are nothing- but a money-taker, too ;
And we claim to ply our trade
Unadmonished, unafraid,
With the license that is given unto you ! ”
Can’t you see this, Mr. Buchan ? If you don’t,
You may keep your sort of Sabbath —but I won’t.
N.S.W.
TALAFERAU.


* m
H
=j —
|fi|j|l
7 '
SB
L
' * : & 9
fCvjr
■ .
.
il i
Tke Really Important Factor*
M
t: j
AL.EK SfNSSI
(
She..— " Once I said tkat 1 would never marry a
man wko smoked. ,
He. ”A.k r tkat wcvs before you found tKe.
rigKl m^rv/’
Ske.— "No —tke tobacco-'
N. 5. He smoke, VICE-RE GAL|
Smoking Mixture.
Vice-Regal Tobacco and Cigarettes.
The famous brand of W. D. O. H. O. Wills.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all coiners at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
" NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
a Winding Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
will find..thent all illustrated and priced in Cameron & Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
machinery. Addresses:— ~ “ * " *"•**'
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street, BALLARAT;
• - and Pall Mall, BENDIGO. *
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Victorian Treasurer Watt made his budget
speech last week ; and before announcing his guess for
next year he reported that last year’s results were as
follows :
Revenue £8,195,403
.Expenditure 8,048,643
Surplus £146,760
Under the present absurd and illogical system of party
government, surpluses are, however, always open to sus-
picion. Every Government’s business is to keep itself in
office, and it does so by, among other things, paint-
ing its financial results a beautiful pink. In
this case, for instance, the surplus is only £146,760 pro-
vided you don’t charge against the revenue the cost of
the Sunshine railway smash. The Victorian railways had
a poor little fund to meet troubles of that kind ; but, as it
wasn’t more than about half big enough to pay the bill
of £121,014, a sum of £69,972 has to be “ advanced ” out
of revenue. To that extent the surplus is a fake.
During recent years the financial results of the Victorian
railways have been much improved. It simply meant
that the Department was taking chances. And as it
took credit for the gains from that system, it unquestion-
ably ought to debit itself with the losses when
they turn up. To do otherwise is just as
absurd as it would be for an insurance office to accept
under-standard lives at a heavily loaded premium, credit
itself with the extra premiums whichit gets year by year,
and then refuse to face the music and debit itself with
the heavy losses when they happen. And there are
other things besides. Portion of the alleged surplus is,
for instance, to be spent on the repair of public buildings.
If a fair amount of repairing—equal to the extent of the
depreciation—has been done during the past year, this
item might pass. But if these repairs now provided
for are merely belated repairs—patches which ought to
have been put on last year—to that further extent the
surplus is a fake. Treasurer Watt would, of course, be
simply in that case tearing a leaf out of the book of the
“Reform” Government of N. S. Wales, which copied the
juggle from Maoriland. In the Ma State and in the
Dominion, the trick is carried put with the help of the
Public Works Fund. Instead of repairs, renewals and
works which ought to be paid for out of revenue being
honestly dealt with in that way, they are deferred,
and the revenue thus saved forms a surplus ;
having achieved which, the party-government Treasurer
reaches for halos for himself and his fellow-Ministers,
poses before the electors, and finally transfers the bogus
surplus to a Works Fund, out of which he then pays for
the patches, etc., that ought to have been paid for direct.
The country is not a penny the better off for this fake.
In fact, it is frequently worse off; because the bogus
surplus not only helps to keep political tricksters in
office, but it is used as bait for fresh loans. If the manage-
ment of a commercial concern adopted these cheap-jack
methods, men would look at one another and expect
something to happen before long. But in Australian
State politics they hardly attract notice.
For next year Bent’s successor guesses as
follows:
Revenue .. .. .. £8,427,650
Expenditure 8,421,268
Surplus .. .. .. £6,382
This revenue would be £232,247, and the expenditure
£372,625, greater than last year’s actual figures. The in-
creased expenditure is due to “improvements” in rail-
way rolling stock, increases in teachers’ salaries, flood
repairs, and a bigger interest bill. Apart from railways,
the Government reckons on a considerable deficit; and, as
a railway surplus is a pretty rotten reed to rest on in
Australia, on account of the variable sea-ions, the
Treasurer admits that he doesn’t feel well when he thinks
of the future. And he will feel still worse if the House
of Big Landlords knocks out his Land-Tax Bill, from which
in 1910-11 he expects to get something over £200,000.
This grabbing of the railway surplus to set
against the general deficit is in itself a misappropriation—
a piece of financial buccaneering of which Victoria can
supply numerous instances. Two years or so back, know-
ing that the railway returns are erratic and that in the
worst seasons the greatest concessions have to be made,
the Parliament bad an attack of virtue, and decided that
railway surpluses, when they did happen, should be ear-
marked for two purposes—to build up an interest reserve
fund, and to establish an improvement fund. Half a
million altogether was to go into these funds before a
penny was collared for any other purpose. It was a most
proper and business-like course to take. Already, how-
ever, Willie Watt’s necessities override the State’s spasm of
virtue ; and, as shown above, not only has last year’s
railway surplus been buccaneered, but it is also deliber-
ately proposed to buccaneer the current year’s expected
railway surplus.
» * • *
Tasmania wound up the year to the end of J une
with a deficit of £25,832, which doesn’t look much at
first, but grows bigger when it is remembered that the
Speck’s population is only about 186,000. The year’s
figures were : —Revenue, £934,405 ; expenditure, £960,237.
For the current year the outlook is still worse :
Estimated expenditure .. £977,018
Estimated revenue .. .. 916,737
Estimated deficit .. .. £60,281
That is allowing for things to go on as at present. But
Neil Lewis doesn’t propose to let them do that. He is a
brave man, who took charge in troublous times, and, as
he say's himself: “ Having accepted the position I now
occupy I shall not shirk my duty, however unpleasant it
may be.” Having made that announcement, the brave
man explained what heroic things he would do. If the
255. per head arrangement with the Commonwealth is
confirmed, the State should, he says, get a little more
revenue year after year. Therefore (consider the courage
of it!) “ with the prospect of an increasing revenue from
this source, it seems unnecessary to ask the people to
make up the whole of the deficit this year.” In
short, by a super-tax of 25 per cent, on the
existing land and income taxes, etc., he proposes
to raise £38,875 ; the other £21,406 be will pass on to the
kid to pay. In the way of painful ineptitude and dis-
graceful shiftlessness this will take some beating. It isn’t
now enough to pass the loan bill on to the future to
struggle with; actually, Tasmania is also deliberately
passing on some of the bill for the policeman’s wages and
things like that.
Of course, Tasmania is in a bad way. That is
admitted at once. But why is it in a bad way ? Simply
because it has done ih the past a very great deal of
the obnoxious thing which it proposes to do now.
To the end of June, 1908, less than 43 per cent,
of its debt was represented by railways and trarhways.
No less than 26 per cent, had gone to pay fir roads and
bridges, 9 p«r cent, for public buildings, and another 6
per cent, for other unproductive things. And even the
money that has been put into railways and tramways
gives the miserable return of 1 '9l percent. Instead of
paying for things out of revenue, Tasmania has been
passing the bill on to the baby ; and now 44 per cent, of
all its expenditure goes in paying interest on loans which
are sunk in things that often earn nothing whatever, and
very rarely earn as much as 2 per cent. Nevertheless,
instead of facing the situation, the Government deli-
berately proposes to load the State with still more abso-
lutely unproductive debt; because, of course, if the
Government doesn’t pay current bills out of revenue, the
only possible way is to borrow the money and pay them
with that. It is disgraceful.
* » * •
The Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1901 .. £47,041 5 p.c. = £25,359 £21,682 £21,682
1902 .. 91,329 10 ~ ~ 50,718 40,611 62,293
June,
1903 .. 94,978 9J ~ „ 50,718 44,260 106,553
1904 .. 86,104 10 ~ „ 50,718 35,386 141,939
1905 .. 86,998 10 ~ „ 50,718 36,280 178,219
1906 .. 76,307 10 ~ „ 50,718 25,589 203,808
1907 .. 83,890 10 ~ ~ 50,718 33,172 236,980
1908 .. 82,850 10 ~ „ 50,718 32,132 269,112
£202,870 transL rred to capital .. .. 66,242
1909 .. 84,112 10 p.c.= 62,129 21,983 88,225
Federation and inter-State Freetrade gave the Australian
shipping cos. their chance ; and they put their heads
together and grabbed it as with a single pair of hands.
They didn’t fight for it and proceed to cut one another’s
throat. They saw that there was a fine trade to be cut
up, with quite enough to go right round the lot; and
they proceeded to cut it up in an orderly manner. The
results have been remarkable. Down to 1900 this par-
ticular co. had had a capital of £202,890 in £lO shares,
and in 1899 those shares were quoted at less than par.
In 1901 the first little bit of gentle watering was done ;
and before the end of that year the £lO share
was worth £25. Since then there have been various other
little waterings: the last of them arrived byway of a
Christmas box. On that occasion the shares (at that time
101,435 of £5 each) were split up into £1 shares, and an
extra 202,870 were issued as a bonus, the £202,870 being
transferred from the reserves. The insurance account
(£144,000) was thus wiped out, and the balance of the new
capital was taken from the repairs and renewals reserve,
which was thereby reduced to £62,130. At present the
reserves are made up as follows
1901. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Insurance .. .. £5,772 £130,000 £144,000 £20,000
Repairs and renewals 10.000 104,000 121,000 65,000
Undivided profit .. 5,910 2,980 4,112 3,225
From the foregoing it will be seen that during the past
year £20,000 has been put by to an insurance fund, and
£2870 has been added to the repairs and renewal reserve.
This, with the £61,242 of net profit shown by the P. and
L. account, makes up the year’s profit of £84,112 shown
above. It is, no doubt, questionable whether the addi-
tions made to these reserves ought to be treated as
profit. But, while they can’t be regarded as profit in the
full sense of the term, it is certain that an allowance quite
apart from these items is made to cover depreciation.
Hitherto it has been possible to get a vague idea of the
amount thus provided, because the item “steamers,
hulks, lighters, plant, etc.,” was shown separately in the
published balance-sheet. Now, however, that item is
bundled up with others. There can be only one object—
to prevent the public knowing whether the co. is stuffing
away profits or not; for of course the easiest plan for
stuffing away profits is to use them to buy additional
plant, etc. For the present it is impossible to say what
this co. is doing in that way ; all that can be said is that
there is no apparent reason why the trade should be any
less profitable than it has been hitherto, and what it has
been like during the past nine years one can judge by the
above-mentioned record of stock-waterings.
* * « *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania
Writ- To
Dividends and ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., ’03.. £8,788 8 p.c. =£5,943 £2,845 £113,623
Aug.,’o3.. 12,631 10 „ „ 7,428 5,203 118,826
Feb., ’04.. 11,646 10 „ „ 7,428 4,218 123,044
Aug.,’o4.. 12,635 10 „ ~ 7,428 5,207 128,251
Feb., ’05.. 12,791 10 „ „ 7,42 S 5,363 133,614
Aug., ’05.. 11,532 12 „ „ 8,914 - 2,618 136,232
Premiums on new shares .. .. 8,508 144,740
Feb., ’06.. 11,298 12p.c.= 9,450 971 877 145,617
Aug.,’o6.. 13,811 12 „ „ 9,450 1000 3,361 148,978
Feb., ’07.. 14,564 12 „ „ 9,450 2000 3,114 152,092
Aug.,’o7.. 17,164 12 „ „ 9,450 6000 1,714 153,806
Premiums on new shares .. . . 25,000 178,806
Feb., ’OB.. 17,120 12p.c. = 11,025 2500 3,595 182,401
Aug.,’oB.. 16,272 12 ~ „ 11,025 2500 2,747 185,148
Feb., ’09.. 16,142 12 „ „ 11,025 2500 2,617 187,765
Aug.,’o9.. 16,663 12 „ „ 11,025 2500 3,138 190,903
The profits are remarkably good. Yet the bank hasn’t
any very large amount of the public’s money to play with.
Capital and reserves combined total £365,903; all debts
to the public amount to £1,568,249. For every pound of
its own the bank therefore has the use of only £4 6s. of
the public’s money, which is very much less than the
average Australian bank has. Certainly this bank works
on comparatively small liquid reserves; but even allowing
for that, the profits are extraordinarily good. This may
be due to the assets having been written down
very hard out of past profits, so that there is nowa-
days an internal and hidden reserve. Judging by
the severe writing down of premises account, that ex-
planation doesn’t seem at all unlikely. Little Tasmania
has a good many insular prejudices, too ; and this bank
gets a lot of support through thick and thin simply
because it is Tasmanian. (It is one of its own boasts, by
the way, that its deposits are wholly Tasmanian.) Further,
the Government business is well worth having. It isn’t
therefore necessary to assume that the high rate of profits
shown is connected in any wav with risky securities.
There are plenty of feasible explanations without that.
Reckoned on the basis of combined capital and
reserves recent profits work out as follows: —
Feb., 1906 .. £7 17 10 p.c. Feb., 1908 .. £lO 8 3 p.c.
Aug., 1906.. 9 6 o,* Aug., 1908 .. 9 2 1,,
Feb., 1907 .. 914 10 „ Feb., 1909 .. 819 3 ~
Aug., 1907 ..11 7 3 ~ Aug., 1909 .. 9 3 9,,
The very high earnings late in 1907 and early in 1908
were no doubt largely due to the metal boom. But
there is nothing in either the figures or in recent condi-
tions of trade in Tasmania to specially account for the
improvement shown in the past half-year. The metal
markets are still slack ; wool is still firm, but the market
for Tasmania’s stud sheep has been rather poor ; and the
timber trade has very rarely been in a worse state. The
bank itself seems to have had some doubts about the
outlook, and has shortened the advances, as the next
comparison shovVs:—
Aug., 1908. Aug., 1909.
Notes and bills .. £66,686 £60,715 . Dec. £5,971
Deposits .. .. 1,537,338 1,507,534 Dec. 29,804
Liquid assets .. 457,267 479,601 Inc. 22,334
Advances ~ 1,484,467 1,424,330 Dec. 60,137
Premises.. .. 37,636 43,746 Inc. 6,110
The figures point to somewhat smaller rather than larger
profits in the current term, though one wouldn’t expect
the drop to be far enough to break anybody’s neck.
* * * *
Finney, Isles & Co., Ltd. (Brisbane). —Thisco.
was registered in 1905 to carry on business as wholesale
and retail drapers in Brisbane and elsewhere; and,
especiallj' during the past 3 T ear, the stock has been nibbled
at considerably by Northern investors. Accounts have
not hitherto been published ; The Bulletin isj however,
able to say that from the start the co. has paid a 6 per
cent. div., and that the Profit and Loss balance as at
July 31 in each year has been as follows : f
1905 £4,179 11908.. .. .. £21,529
1906 7,103 1909.. .. .. 29,263
1907 13,952 |
Meantime £1331 spent in preliminary expenses has been
written off and a goodwill item has been written down
from £16,235 to £lO,OOO. This means that in five years.a
6 per cent, dividend has been paid in 1905-6-7-8, over a (id
above which the co. has achieved this : *
Preliminary expenses written off.. .. £1,331 ,
Goodwill written off... 6,235 ?
Profit accumulated .. 29,263 f ~
Total £36,829
Out of that, however, the past year’s bonus to employees,
and the year’s 6 per cent, dividend (about £3960), have to
be deducted. After doing that, and providing £3OOO
towards the cost of removing the chiffons, etc., to new
premises, and writing down goodwill to £5OOO, the P. and
L. balance of £29,263 will be reduced to approximately
£17,000. The average annual profit in excess of dividend
thus works out at about £5900, which is equal to nearly
9 per cent, on even the present capital.
Under ordinary circumstances this amount of
undivided profit might have made it possible to lop large
branches off the co.’s liabilities. But the co. has put such
a heap of money lately into premises, and has such a
heap of additional money in stock and book debts, that
in the past four years the liabilities have grown from
£103,666 to £142,181. Had the capital remained where it
was, this growth wouldn’t be at all a cheerful feature
of the case. Capital has, however, been increased
from £29,462 to £66,392; so that, whereas at the
end of the co.’s first year the liabilities amounted
to £3 Is. for every £1 of the shareholders’ money
in the business, at the end of the last year the
proportion was only £1 9s. 9d. to every £l. This means,
of course, much less risk for the shareholders to carry,
because it is the shareholders’ capital which has to stand
the racket in case anything goes wrong with any of the
assets. This shows the co.’s hurried movements in more
detail
1905. 1906. 1908. 1909.
Capital .. .. £29,462 £31,811 £65,492 £66,392
Debentures .. 38,278 41,329 41,410 41,300
Other liabilities.. 68,388 60,485 96,273 100,881
Stock .. .. 60,578 63,590 74,879 82,106
Book debts .. 25,550 30,706 42,269 43,876
Premises, etc. .. 7,565 7,785 46,403 58,266
Branch assets. .. 11,882 12,737 14,863 24,823
Cash .. .. 13,766 8,975 33,035 18,665
Of its total liabilities the co. has raised over £lOO,OOO on
debentures, mortgage and overdraft ; and the interest on
most of that is the same whether times are good or
bad. If times are good, even J per cent, extra earnings
on the borrowed money adds over £5OOO to the profits ;
if times are bad, and even J per cent, less than usual can
be earned, there is over £5OOO less profit than usual.
Where a co. has so much borrowed money, profits are thus
almost bound to be afflicted with the jumps ; they will be
swollen very big in good times and reduced very much in
bad times, and an investor has to consider hard whether re-
cent times have been good, bad, or something in between.
Book debts have suffered from an upward rush ; probably,
however, that is due to an increase in the turnover. If it
isn’t, it is a bad sign. The best feature of all is the attack
made on the goodwill items. When a management wipes
out two-thirds of such items—or, say, £l2,soo—inside
five years, there is at any rate good evidence to go
on with that that management has ideas for the future,
and isn’t merely concerned about booming its co.’s stock.
* * * *
Watson’s Bay and South Shore Ferry Co.
(Sydney)
Apparent Written To Be- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1902.. £l4O
1903.. £1564 6 p.c. =£464 £llOO 1240
1904.. 1208 6 ~ ~ 433 775 2015
1905.. 1154 6 „ „ 433 721 2736
1906.. 1867 6 ~ ~ 433 1434 4170
1907.. 863 6 „ „ 433 £1398 3202
1905.. 1668 6 ~ ~ 433 1235 4437
1909.. 1364 6 „ „ 433 931 5368
But the true profits are probably a good deal less; for the
reserves, and therefore also the reserve additions, include
the amounts provided to cover depreciation. For the
past year the directors have added £7OO to this reserve ;
and if that is the true extent of the depreciation, then
the actual profit was only £664. It may be even less, for
there are contingencies to be provided for —such, for
instance, as the risk of accident followed by large claims
from damp or damaged passengers and distressed rela-
tives. This risk may be covered by insurance ; but there
is no mention of that fact, if it is a fact. Besides the
amount put into the depreciation reserve, current
patches appear to be paid for out of revenue; and no
doubt this accounts to some extent for the way in which
apparent profits wobble up and down, because the
patches are bigger some years than others. Nevertheless,
though it does pay for its patches, besides creating a
depreciation reserve, for a Sydney ferry co. it
isn’t a very prosperous concern; there isn’t much
glitter about either its boats or its balance-sheets.
Its misfortune is that it has to compete with the trams,
in which respect it differs from most of the other Sydney
ferry cos. Therefore while other cos. have been piling
on new boats, the “ steamer property ” item in this co.’s
books stands at just the same £17,097 as it did in 1907.
Apart from that almost its only asset is a leasehold pro-
perty at Neutral Bay, used for coaling and laying up
steamers. Its liquid assets before paying the dividend
just about balanced liabilities, apart from debentures.
Of these it has £6OOO outstanding, while its share capital
is £7221.
* * * *
Ballina Co-operative Produce Co. (N.S.W.):
Suppliers’ Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves.
1903.. £1503 5 p.c. =£l3l £428 £437 £1156
1904.. 827 5 „ „ 148 229 465. 1141
1905.. 1549 7J „ „ 242 425 547 1476
1906.. 1269 5 „ „ 163 258 531 1793
1907.. 913 5 „ „ 170 810 1726
1908.. 1814 5 „ „ 188 214 598 2540
June,
1909.. 865 286 3119
This co. divides its attention between cow and pig. It
does a little in the way of direct exporting; and about
one-third of its reserves are to cover the risks of that
business and as a marine insurance fund. Liabilities
total £4661 ; on the other side, Stock and book debts
represent £5560. The dividend and bonus are declared
after the June-December half-year.
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Dividend
(10 p.c.) and
Bonus on
Purchases
Net (10 p.c. To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonus), serves. serves.
Jan., 1903 .. £6,862 £6163 £609 £15,438
July, 1903 .. 5,806 5938 15,306
Jan., 1904 .. 6,829 6564 265 15,571
July, 1904 .. 6,658 645 L 207 15,778
t ions i 8,195 7250 945 16,723
dan., iuuo premiums on new shares 6887 • 23,610
July, 1905 .. 8,410 7188 1222 24,832
Jan., 1906 ..' 8,925 7751 1174 26,006
July, 1906 .. 8,062 6995 1067 27,073
(Hi p.c.
Bonus.)
Jan., 1907 .. 9,138 8298 840 27,913
July, 1907 .. 8,809 8251 558 28,471
Jan., 1908 .. 9,298 9034 264 28,735
July, 1908 .. 9,697 9043 654 29,389
Jan., 1909 .. 10,507 9970 537 29,926
July, 1909 .. 9,680 9570 110 30,036
Some of the figures for the past half-year have been com-
puted. Thus it has been assumed that £550 will be paid to
employees as a bonus, aiid that amount has accordingly
been deducted from profits. On the other hand it
has been assumed on past experience that £330 of cus-
tomers’ bonuses will not be claimed. At the meeting
somebody was to propose that the six directors,
who get £5O a year each, should get another £5O
each; but this £3OO has not been deducted.
It looks, though, as if this £3OO a year were going to be a
regular thing : for the present motion is merely a repeti-
tion of one that was passed 12 months ago. The half-
year’s expenses have been heavier than usual; the
directors, however, mention that some improvements
have been charged up to working expenses, and that may
account for it. These and other figures are shown here-
under
Propor-
Gross tion Ex-
Cash Profit on Working penses to
• Receipts. Sales, etc. Expenses. Receipts.
Jan., 1898 .. £55,613 £13,256 £8,886 15'98 p.c.
July, 1906.. 95,479 23,452 14,317 14'99„
Jan., 1907.. 105,012 25,822 15,489 14'75 „
July, 1907.. 102,019 25,272 15,262 14-96 ~
-Ja-n.-r 1908 .. 113,173 27,800 17,290 15'28 „
July, 1908 .. 115,130 28,354 17,106 14-86 „
Jan.,, 1909 .. 125,908 31,821 19,983 15'87 „
Ju1y,1909 .. 122,629 31,063 19,929 16‘25 „
,i
The capital is only £13,884 ; so the reserves are more than
twice as great as the capital. Liabilities of all kinds total
£23 384. The co. does not own any real property , nut a
large amount—probably over £lo,ooo—has been spent in
extending the rented premises; and there still remains
£8029 to be written off out of profits on that account.
Furniture and fittings stand at £9384, and that also is
being written off out of profits. The two items are bein„
reduced at the aggregate rate of about £l4OO a year.
The Adelaide Co-operative Society
Divi- Writ-
dend Bonus on ten Re-
Profits. (4 p.c.). Off. serves.
Feb., 1903 .. 2427 715 3§ p.c. = 1466 329 1369
Aug., 1903 .. 2286 720 3§ „ „ 1409 242 1-34
Feb., 1904 .. 2433 704 3j} ~ ~ 1448 254 1261
Aug., 1904 .. 2529 719 3S „ „ 1355 364 1322
Feb., 1905 .. 2680 754 3J „ ~1154 299 1495
Aug., 1905 .. 2399 780 3| ~ ~ 1531 20l 1 -
Feb., 1906 .. 3128 789 3j „.. 1560 523 1588
Aug 1906 .. 3150 808 3J ~ ~ 1597 423 1910
Feb.’,’ 1907 .. 2898 845 3# „ „ 1590 282 2091
Ana- 1907 3989 877 44 ~ ~ 1950 2670
Feb * 1908 .. 4138 935 5 ~ ~ 2385 610 2883
Aug.’, 1908 .. 4737 1007 5 „ ~2790 581 3242
Feb., 1909 .. 4255 1052 5 „ „ 3003 344 3098
Aug., 1909 .. 4870 1100 5 „ ~3250 632 2986
The figures in the last line are mostly estimates;
it is, ° for instance, assumed on past experiences
that income-tax and directors’ and auditors’ fees
will absorb £220, and this amount has been de-
ducted from profits. The amounts of the divi-
dend and bonus are also more or less guessed at.
Amounts written off have lately' been heavy ; but if there
hasn’t been anything special about this, and if they have
to be kept going at the recent rate, it will have to be seri-
ously considered whether the shilling-in-the-£ bonus can
be maintained. For the half-year to Feb., the appro-
priations cut into the reserves; and it looks as
though those for the past half-year will do so too. The
society is organised on rather old-fashioned lines. The
capital isn’t fixed : any shareholder may draw out when-
ever he pleases on very short notice. This necessitates
keeping a considerable bank balance, besides a holding of
public securities. On the other hand, the shareholders
only get 4 per cent, for their money. Nothing serious
has ever happened to the society in its 41 years ; but it is
really a most unsatisfactory basis for a commercial con-
cern. Besides “capital” the society accepts “ loans ”on
practically the same terms. Naturally under these
circumstances its own buying has to be on a cash basis,
so that it has no other liabilities whatever. Its own
book debts total only £6918, which is equal to about a
fortnight’s turnover ; and nobody can complain of the size
of that item. Apart from book debts, the liquid assets
total £26,187, mostly bank balances. This represents
about 45 per cent, of the “ capital ” —a figure which
supports the view that the Society’s basis isn’t really
suitable for a modern commercial concern.
• * * *
Bega Co-operative Creamery Co. (N.S.W.)
Divs. Suppliers’ Written Re-
Profits. (5 p.c.). Bonus. Off. serves.
June, 1903.. £934 £177 £319 £302 £BB6
June, 1904.. 1381 179 290 179 S
June, 1905.. 383 179 694 267 1041
June, 1906.. 803 179 277 242 1146
Dec., 1906.. 732 112 1766
June, 1907.. 805 179 217 2175
Loss.
Dec., 1907.. 160 635 108 1272
Profit.
June, 1908.. 486 179 1195 384
Dec., 1908.. 150 170 364
June, 1909.. 863 179 297 170 581
This little co-operative co. works on the line that there
isn’t anything gained by taking a shilling out of the
right-hand pocket and dropping it back into the left-
hand pocket of the same pair of trousers; therefore its
declared policy is to pay as much as it safely can for its
raw material, and this naturally leaves little for bonuses.
Depreciation appears to be amply provided for out of
profits. Liabilities amount to only £2137, while on the
other side stock, book debts and cash in hand total
£3187. The position appears to be perfectly sound, even
though the reserves are small; and the manufacturing
and other costs appear to be reasonable.
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vic.)
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, 1903.. £5044 14 per cent. = £4725 £319 £64,678
Jan., 1904.. 4554 14 „ ~ 4725 64,507
July, 1904.. 5012 14 ~ ~ 4725 287 64,794
Jan., 1905.. 4438 14 „ „ 4725 64,507
July, 1905.. 4800 12 ~ „ 4050 750 65,257
Jan., 1906.. 4455 12 „ ~ 4050 405 65,662
July, 1906.. 4112 12 „ ~ 4050 62 65,724
Jan., 1907.. 4376 12 „ ~ 4050 326 66,050
July, 1907.. 3971 12 ~ ~ 4050 65,971
Jan., 1905.. 3680 12 „ ~ 4050 65,601
July, 1908.. 3413 10 „ „ 3375 38 65,639
Jan., 1909.. 4019 10 ~ ~ 3375 644 66,283
July, 1909.. 2319 10 „ „ 3375 65,227
Of the reserves £62,654 is described as “ accumulated pro-
fits invested in assets—renewal of works, service and con-
tingency funds, and wear and tear accounts.” Money
spent on renewals is not, however, a reserve ; it is simply
the replacement of capital. Money put aside to counter-
balance wear and tear is not a reserve either ; that also is
replacement of capital. Therefore, the real reserves
cannot be set out. The net profits for the half-year are
unusually small; that, however, is due to particularly
large amounts being wriiten off. Tiiis shows things
better (“ trading profit,” by the way, does not include the
small interest earnings) :
Trading Written Depreciation
Profit. Off. Reserve, etc.
July, 1902 .. £5999 £634 £62,471
~ 1905 .. 5519 1093 62,758
~ 1906 .. 5521 1749 62.544
~ 1907 .. 5623 1734 63,045
„ 1908 .. 5348 2066 62,747
„ 1909 .. 5755 3492 62,654
Go back to 1900, and compare the financial position then
with what it is now :
July, 1900. July, 1909.
Liquid assets .. £19,652 .. £21,920
Liabilities .. .. 444 .. 731
Surplus.. £19,208 .. £21,189
Thus £l9Bl has been put by in nine years, which isn’t
much, but is fairly satisfactory provided that repairs and
renewals have been kept up to the mark. Extensions
have, of course, also been paid for; but they don’t
appear to have been much. Anyhow, the sales in the
last half-year were £12,891, while in the corresponding
half of 1900 they were £12,719 ; so there doesn’t appear
to have been any rush of new customers.
* * *
Sydney Ferries proceeds to do some more
watering—only the Sydney Ferries does its watering with
much more circumspection than its friend, the Port
Jackson and Manly 00. The Ferries’idea is to issue another
100,000 shares at par ; but, it is understood, only 10s. will
be called up at present. This will make the total number
of shares issued 300,000. Of those shares the first 120,000
went to the shareholders in the old co., who got two
shares for one ; the next 20,000 were issued at par ; then
20,000 were issued as a bonus ; in 1907-8 40,000 were issued
at par ; and now 100,000 will be issued at par. • This prac-
tice of issuing shares at par stops a lot of public criticism ;
all the same, it’s a mighty lucky co. that can find a 10 per
cent, use for tens of thousands at any moment it feels
like calling up another little lot.
* *■ * *
Be the City Electric Light Co., of Brisbane, and
its probable life. When the past yeaFs accounts were
post-mortemed (B. 16/9/’O9), it was said that the co.’s
orders-in-couneil would run out in 1940, and things were
then likely to come to a dead stop so far as the co. was
concerned. It isn’t, however, certain that they
will. They may—or they may not. The Electric
Light and Power Act of Queensland (1896), under
which the co. works, provides that any local
authority may within six months from the date when the
order runs out give notice that it wants to buy; or it may


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
Irk Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,’’ accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD.,
Sole
Agents,
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie. [4
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. & J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick • price 20s. per bag. YVm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* • * *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor ” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bells
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Binders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. Bor
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
The original “Balata” Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* * # l 2
The Post Magazine and Insurance Monitor,
London, of 3l/I0/’08, in commenting upon The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, writes:—
“ Wherever the Society has gone it has stood for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look back upon one-
third of a century of useful work.”*
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, o59 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * •
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt, is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia Beware of imitations. Win. Adams and Co,,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, whichis common slack, being
less than ljlb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron ‘founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbs.rg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh • hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, have been
busy among' the collieries, having recently installed
Jeffrey Cable Conveyors for handling slack coal at the
North Bulli Colliery, and at Aberdare and Aberdare
Extended Collieries, at Cessnock, with capacities of from
10 to 80 tons per hour. Last week they put into operation
for the Newcastle City Council a Cable Conveyor of 20
tons capacity for delivering the small coal from railroad
waggons to the boiler house. They also have on order
for South Clifton Colliery, a large Conveyor and Picking
Belt combined, with capacity of 200 tons an hour.
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
sole agents for ottor AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlig, Cologne, as
'supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY a Excavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. 13
(five the same notice at the end of every subsequent 10
years. The Act says that the co. must in that ease sell
to the local authority its undertaking, or so much of it as
is within the district,” the price being: “ the then value
of all lands and works” of the co. “ suitable to and used
by it for the purposes of the undertaking ” ; but nothing
is to be paid for goodwill. Therefore, though the co. is
building up a reserve at a rate which should provide for
the return of capital in 1940, the co. will presumably still
go on supplying electricity after that date until the
“local authority" drops it the before-mentioned note.
By the way, in the notice on September 16, a “ statement
of units supplied ” was followed by some figures with the
£ mark on top of them. The compositor who assumed
that every column of figures in this page ought to have
the £ mark on top has been killed.
# ■* * *
Friendly societies, which are the poor men’s
banks and insurance offices, continue to push ahead in
N. S. Wales. In 1901 the average membership of adult
males was 81,642 ; last year it was 95,050. The improve-
ment in funds and financial results is even better. For
over quarter of a century the societies were run any-
how. Then, as one society after another defaulted, pay-
ing less than it had undertaken to pay, the State took a
hand, and some strenuous legislation was passed.
In 1902 the funds in the hands of the societies
totalled £784,467. By the end of 1908 they were
£1,258,025. It took 29 years for the funds to grow
to that £784,467 ; in the next six years, under a new law
and a new administration, they grew £473,556. Of course,
many of the societies have been compelled to either
reduce their benefits or increase their piemiunis ; for it
was proved beyond doubt that, working under the old
scale, many of them had become insolvent. But, apart
from that, there has been a fine saving in management
expenses, and great waste of capital has been stopped.
The practice now adopted is to consolidate and concen-
trate the funds; for the individual lodge, with only a
few pounds at disposal, and those few pounds
variable, could not possibly invest satisfactorily.
Such good work has the Department done that the
interest earnings last year were no less than £45,903, or
£3 15s. 7d. per cent, of the average total funds—a very
good figure considering that it is almost impossible to
invest some of the funds, w'hich are really intended
merely to provide till money. The year’s total income
was £435,324; the expenditure was £346,409, of which
£116,888 was paid for medical attendance, £101,989 went
in sick pay, and £29,799 in what are known as “ funeral
benefits.” “ Management” took 11 per cent, of the total
income ; but it depends a great deal on what is included
in “ management”—and also on what isn’t included.
The Newcastle coal vend, which comprises
every important Northern N.S.W. colliery except the
Wallsend, isn’t feeling comfortable. It fixed up an agree-
ment with the shipping cos. under which cargoes for Aus-
tralian and Maoriland ports can only be supplied to the
allied shipping people. The other day a Maoriland-
chartered boat arrived at Newcastle for a cargo for a
Maoriland coal-dealer. Now, this coal-dealer is in a
Maoriland association which has undertaken to get its
coal from the vend; but he said the vend wouldn’t supply
him with coal to be shipped by any other than an “ allied ”
boat —which in this case really means a Union Co.’s boat.
The position amounted to something so much like a
conspiracy in restraint of trade that even the S. M.
Heram> had to smite the proceedings ; and it is also well-
known that the Commonwealth Parliament is being
stirred up. Hence nobody could have been much sur-
prised to read that the Maoriland man’s matter had
been hurriedly fixed up, and that a cargo was forth-
coming. Looking around for a way out in case trouble
should arise, some of the most interested people have
struck the idea of turning the whole of the Newcastle
and Maitland collieries over to one big co., and some
British and Scotch people are understood to be willing to
take a hand in a game of that sort.
* * * *
The public is losing its head, and somebody is
going to get hurt. Compare a few “ silver ” prices with
those ruling 12 months ago
Sept., ’OB. Sept., ’O9.
B. H. South (paid) £3 13 0 £6 11 6
B. H. Prop 2 0 6 2 6 0
Sulphides (ordinary).. 8 6 12 6
B. H. North .. .. 211 3 412 0
Junction North .. 10 9 1 18 0
At the very top of the metal boom, when lead reached
£2l per ton, the South only paid 15s. per share in any
12 months, and on the present price even that would be
only 11 per cent., which isn’t anything out of the way
considering that even the South will do very well
indeed if it flourishes another 20 years. But during the
past six years, which include the boom period,
the average dividend has been only 7s. 6d. a
year; and on £6 10s. that works out at only 5f per
cent., which is absurd for a wasting security like a mine.
Certainly there is the zinc; but, though still another
zinc “ convention ” has been fixed up, this is a most uncer-
tain metal. Prices were up to £29 7s. 6d. in 1906, and
down to £l7 17s. 6d. in 1908. At present they are about
£23. It is just as well also to remember now and again
that this zinc business isn’t quite as new as it is some-
times cracked up to be. It is nearly 10years, for instance,
since Block 10 started to pocket thousands for its tailings
dumps. The Broken Hill Prop, was working hard with its
zinc plant all last vear and the year before ; yet in the 12
months to the end of November—which was before the
labor trouble started—the divs. were only £72,000, oi-
ls. 6d. per share. And on present prices that is equal to
less than 3J per cent, per annum ! An even more absurd
thing is that in sympathy with this Barrier boom prices
of copper, tin and gold stocks should in many cases dart
upwards, though copper-market prospects are poor, and
tin seems also booked for a fall.
* * * *
Sulphide Corporation ordinary shares have
streaked away up to 225. 6d. Twelve months ago they
were Bs. 6d. The co. owns the B. H. Central mine, one of
the very best—provided the stuff can be got out; but a
large quantity of the ore reserves never will be got out,
on account of the uneasiness of the mine. What that
uneasiness has cost hitherto may best be judged by the
fact that all through the last metal boom not a single
dividend came the way of the ordinary shares ; the last
one was paid in 1900. Possibly all the troubles
are over; but, when a mine once gets on the
move, it is never safe to < regard troubles from
that source as ended for good and all. The situation, so
far as ordinaries are concerned, is just this. First there
are 550,000 10 per cent. pref. £1 shares. Then there is
about 80,000 of 5 per cent, debenture stock. Then there
are 150,000 £1 shares in the so far unprofitable Central
Zinc Co., on which this co. has guaranteed 5 per cent.
The ordinaries come in fourth. Also the ordinary shares
have been written down to 15s. Now in the South and
most other mines, when a dividend is declared, it is 6d. oi-
ls. per share, and paids and eontribs. get the same. In
this case, however, even if a 10 per cent, dividend is de-
clared all round, the paids get 2s. while the ordinaries get
only Is. 6d.
* * * •
James Hebbard, having been loaned by the
Sulphide Corporation, has been once more crawling
through the dog-leg workings of the B. H. Junction—a
mine which he managed 20 years ago. He tells share-
holders what The Bulletin assured them a while back—
that in spite of the enthusiasm of one section of them, it
is hopeless to attempt treatment with present appliances.
The capital required is £32,400. Proved and probable ore
he estimates at 391,000 tons, averaging 8-soz. silver,
12'5 p.c. lead, and 8 p.c. zinc ; and even at present prices,
and with the suggested capital expenditure, he figures
out a small profit. *
Trouble is threatening in Sydney over the
Kangiara “corner,” and “law” is threatened—by one of
the Vickery brothers and a Toohey, it is said. Brokers and
other speculators a while ago heavily oversold Kangiaras ;
the reports that weren’t supplied officially were so adverse
that a market collapse was reckoned inevitable. So few
of the shares were in the public’s hands, however, that
when settling time came there was trouble ; and there
has been continued trouble for the past three months.
Now the bears who have had their tails pinched have
been raking over prospectuses, balance-sheets, etc., and
whatever else happens, some dirty linen will have a badly-
needed washing.
* * * *
Lobb’s Hole (N.S.W.) lias taken a turn for the
better ; in the bottom level (No. 2 east) the. fugitive rich
vein of copper ore has been picked up ; it is 2ft. wide in
places, and worth apparently 25 per cent. Besides, it is
in a soft “dig’,” which makes it much easier to get the
ore out. Generally in this mine the rich stuff has been
welded on to the hard country rock, and has to be shot
away and then picked. Another cheerful feature is that
a fair vein has been picked up in the winze from No. 1
level just over the No. 2 east workings, so it looks as if
there is a good run of ore thereabouts. The furnace is
waiting, and the stuff can soon be turned into money.
Still the co. has so much leeway to make up that the
public oughtn’t to boom the shares. The new find will
no doubt save the concern from collapse, and may wipe
out the debt of over £6OOO ; but there is no reason to rush
from despair to the other extreme. The vein is small,
and 60,000 shares are a big lot for a little mine to carry.
« * • *
At Wyalong (N.S.W.) an impetus has been
given to mining operations on the Shamrock line of reef
through H. Nelson and party, of the Santa Olaus, meet-
ing with good stone in a crosscut 18ft. east at a depth of
270 ft. The reef averages about lOin. in width and looks
well in both faces. This development comes opportunely,
as a number of Wyalong properties are experiencing a
decided slump. Nelson was one of the original pros-
pectors of Wyalong, and took a heap of gold out of .the
Perseverance.
* » * *
Mount David (N.S.W.) doesn’t cause much
excitement these times, although there was a big buyer
in the market last week, evidently in the hope that the
north-east drive atNo. 4 level will run intoapayable reef.
The last lot of Mount David stone averaged Bdwt.; yet,
as it took six weeks to raise 528 tons, the value is hardly
good enough. But, on top of that, 304 tons of tailings
gave the surprisingly good return of 990 z., or about 6dwt.
per ton. A return of Bdwt. from the mill and 6dwt. from
the tailings requires some explanation. By the way,
Mount David might with advantage adopt the modern
style of reporting its return in cash values—it would save
a lot of trouble.
* * * »
Sydney has come in a bit late in the day with a
co. to prospect Tanami, in the far Nor’-West. The men to
go out are W. Brookman and H. W. Atkinson. Brookman
has had experience in the Far West (N.S.W.), and has
prospected in the Kimberley country; Atkinson is a
seasoned bushman who until lately managed Sturt’s
Greek station, the nearest cattle-run to the Tanami field.
They will be fixed up with camels; and if they can’t give
the country a thorough trial most others will have a poor
chance.
* • * *
South Kalgurli (W. A.) mine directors take over
independent control of the mine from 8., M. and Co. on
October 1. Among the directors are some well-known
figures on the London Stock Exchange, so the change
from the firm’s control is being watched with more than
usual interest. The co. has something like 7s. per share
cash in hand, and the mine earns over 3s. a year, so there
is something to play with.
* * * *
Attention slowly turns towards the Lancefield
(W.A.), which has emerged to the productive stage; but,
so far. confidence isn’t expressed very definitely in its
own (Laverton) district. Last month’s disappointments
are said to be due to a fall of earth, which killed one man
and caused a stoppage underground. Five furnaces are
at work, and a sixth is just about finished. The pushing
down of the shaft to the next level is worth watching.
There are some who say that the lode is a wedge forma-
tion, and only deep sinking can disprove this.^
Gwalia Consolidated, the big show at Lawler’s
(W.A.), has been doing some diamond drilling below the
200 ft. level. The lode, whose existence below that point
had been doubted, proved to be 40ft. wide at the point
where the drill hit it, and the values show up well,
averaging 365. per ton over the full width. E. King,
formerly metallurgist on the Brown Hill, is to go to this
mine, and the result is looked for with a good deal of
interest.
* * * *
Hampton Plains 1906, Limited (W.A.), to dis-
tinguish it from other Hampton Plains companies, is
going to Uruguay. It will be known in future as the
Hampton Uruguay, Limited. It has been a money-losing
concern in the West.
* * » •
The Paringa, which has floated along from
market flutter to market flutter, is now again recon-
structing in London. Theco. has decided to try its luck
in West Africa. There are 809,000 shares in the co., and
at the meeting the directors introduced the closure with
91,474 in favor of reconstruction and 1425 against it.
Shareholders will now be asked to pay 3d. on application
and allotment, and 3d. in calls as required. The Westra-
lian lease is apparently to be left to the tributors, who
are doing well out of some small pot holes near the main
shaft.
* * * *
The Lake View South (W.A.), which was re-
vived lately with the aid of a party of tributors, presents
a cheerful prospect to the shareholders in its latest report.
The chairman read some most optimistic cables at the
meeting; for 55ft. in the shaft* the values, it was said,
ran about an ounce to the ton. This was one of the pro-
perties that Dr. Malcolm Maclaren, the geologist, ex-
amined; but his report hadn’t been received in time for
the meeting. Meantime expenses have been cut to the
bone—the cost of London management had only been
£l5B for the term.
« * * *
Consulting-Engineer Williams, on the Gwalia
Consolidated (W.A.): “The mine contains large ore
bodies carrying good gold values in well-defined zones
under conditions rendering it possible to work fairly
cheaply, thus ensuring a reasonable profit per ton of ore
handled. There is no doubt of the continuance of these
ore bodies in depth. It is possible in the sulphide zone
they will be narrower and more consistent in value, while
it may be expected the average value of the sulphide ore
will be better than that of the oxidised.”
Some Jugginses have lately been spotting Oath-
cart, Ararat (Vic.), as a show to take a fall out of. They
made a mistake. They didn’t realise that a stock sup-
ported by a regiment of the squattocraey, as well as by
good dirt, takes a lot of beating. For a start, Manager
Bryant trotted out a sample of wash worth 18oz. per
fathom from his far-down-the-lead faces, making Ararat
swear solemnly that another Madame Berry had come to
charm the mining world. Sample lots, even though
bulky, don’t, it is true, make a mine ; still, they tell the
little tale that there are sweeteners in the mine, and the
mining assumption is that they won’t be neglected when
the proper day arrives. This was what the Madame
Berry did. It had a patch on which stood a huge boulder.
When the ground got heavy they had to make a rush to
clear out the block. The gold raked away from under the
big boulder overflowed the big bank safe at Creswiek, and
had to be stacked in bags in the office. There is nothing
yet in the Oathcart to do quite that much. Still 64
fathoms from No. 10 rise have given 3500 z., and there are
whispers that even better ground was left. From No. 3
rise down to No. 11 a rich run of ground exists which
makes Chairman Henry Dodd wear a smile as broad as
his office plate. The talk is of IOOOoz. a fortnight and
big divs. All right; but what about the width of the rich
run of wash ? The gutter is known to be at least 300 ft.
wide, in some places 500 ft. ; but rich runs of gold
don’t usually spread over a wide surface. Still the days
of rich returns are approaching ; whereupon punters will
try to count up how long the yields will last, just as now
they are reckoning up the pounds they have lost through
thinking that the stock’s chief barracker, Sam Bagley,
had more wind than wisdom.
* * * *
Because the Cathcart has given good prospects,
the gentle floater shoots up like a cork. First came the
New Langi Logan, to the east of the Cathcart, into which
the lead has to corkscrew itself over high ground, if it is
to get there at all. Terms in this case were £5OOO cash
and 10,000 paids of £1 each, with 50,000 shares subscribed
for at ss. Out of £12,500 cash furnished by the public,
the promoters bagged 40 per cent., besides £lO,OOO in
shares. Then arrived the Langi Logan South. Terms,
the same ; so that two long-shepherded blocks bring in
£lO,OOO in cash and £20,000 in shares to the gentle shep-
herds and their friends. Last, but not least, shows up the
North Langi Logan. This is a block whose chief merit
is its broad expanse. Here the terms are £lO,OOO cash
and 20,000 shares out of 100,000, while £lO,OOO goes to
working - expenses. Nothing - succeeds like success. Will
someone ask in the Legislative Assembly how much the
State has got in rents from these leases, and how long
they have been held without work being done? In each
case the working capital is a dribble for wet country like
the Langi Logan. Will the gentle promoter be there to
demonstrate the possibilities of cheap mining, or will he
be off after, other game ?
* * * *
The tale of the Birthday, Berringa (Vic.), reads
like a bit;from a fairy book. The mite placed to the
credit of the co. originally was £lOOO. On this the gold
won is £358,342, and the dividends total £135,000. It is
chances like this that make mining as attractive as a
lottery. The present paid capital is £4269, of which
£1247 was got in last half-year, and it is probable that the
total will be swollen in the close future. The co. had
gold from the surface to 800 ft. Thence onward the
lode continued, but the gold disappeared. This
is so often the experience in the districts round
Ballarat that it is wise to sell when 700 ft. or 800 ft. is
reached. Driving is now going on for the break m the
south drive at 1000 ft., the hope of the mine depending
on gold making there. Should it not, the tally of divs. is
likely to end. The co.’s accounts show how cheaply some
Victorian mines are worked. Directors’ fees have taken
only £927, while the wages and salaries required £114,0J0,
and of that sum the salaries would be a very small per-
centage. , # »
Now that Johnson’s has flickered out, that other
old Bendigo war-horse, Garden Gully, is coursing to the
front. So far, there is not much to justify the spurt. Leav-
ing the bottom levels and coming near the surface, the co.
is having a shot at the saddle formation in the 500 ft. level
from the south shaft. Bendigo mine managers get up on
stilts when they see a color or two ; and this accounts for
the pit-a-patter in the Beehive when one of the old crowd
comes along with word of a little success. The trial stuff
broken from the 400 ft. winze went only Bdwt., which isn t
so good as the Johnson’s dirt. The second string to
Garden Gully’s bow is the formation at 2550 ft. bhould
this turn out to carry more than colors, then the John-
son’s flutter will be repeated. Still, it will have a little
more justification, for, at any rate, a big formation does
exist at this point, though what it is worth is another
matter. _ .
* * * *
Joe Tanks has turned up in Ballarat from Lon-
don with a tall hat, frock coat and spats—a veritable
West-Ender, with a pocket full of cold to devote to
reviving the Midas line at Sulky Gully. Some mud is
thrown at him because, besides gold, he has also
brought back a pocket full of paid-up shares Still, if he
can make the quartz at Sulky Gully pay, Ballarat will for-
give him the paid-up shares and put a statue of him—
frock coat and all—in the principal street. Alluvial made
the Midas mine, and as the gold in the gutters must have
come from somewhere, perhaps the quartz which thcnew
co. proposes to work may prove to be the mother lodes.
It is a gamble, but is well worth while.
Great Northern, Gympie (Q.), has decided on
reconstruction. Shareholders met in Sydney last week,
and heard what promoter and manager Reeve had to say
about it. Though probably he hasn’t done all that he
expected, he was able to show that from one reef 23,1
tons had been treated for 24660 z., worth £8417 ; and that
is quite good enough to go on with. When Reeve started
barracking for the Two Mile, he had to be modest in his
requests for capital 1 but now that more prospecting has
been justified, compressed air and rock-drills are wanted
in order to do the thing economically. The new co. will
be in 48 000 shares, all contributing, issued share for
share to present holders. With other reefs to be worked
in both top and second slates, the property ought to soon
pay its way if it gets machinery. Anyhow, having gone
this far, shareholders are not likely to let the thing fall
through.
East Oriental and Glanmire (Gympie) was a
poverty-stricken concern for years ; but then it got a big
development, west of the shaft, and now shells out a,n
occasional dividend, besides heading - the list of Gympie
outputs. The crushing stuff averages about 12dwt. per
ton from big ore bodies that run out north and south at
the 2154 ft level. On the northern side the workings ex-
tend up to the 2054 ft. level; while to the south the slate
countrv has recently shown improvement on the eastern
side of'the drive, and it seems likely that the ore body
will continue underfoot. The return for the last eight
weeks was 21660 z. from 3743 tons.
• » * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.), which had some good
ore in the upper levels, has driven west from the main
shaft at the 350 ft. level, only to find diorite, which seems
to have displaced the ore body. Possibly the Hampden
will be heard from again, because the lode may oe picked
up bv driving. Developments in the Hampden Consols
next door have been satisfactory. The Duchess, a few
miles from Hampden, continues to give a fairly good
account of itself, but assays are not at present
e-iven in quite such an exuberant fashion. The
260 ft level is out 210 ft., and the face assats
run about 11 per cent. At the 185 ft. mark the ore
body measures 22ft. in width, and the average value is
13 per cent. There are other places where the gossan is
of very low value, and the south drive at 260 ft. level is also
poor. .The Duchess lode was comparatively narrow at
the 110 ft. level, and this big bulge down to 260 ft. has
been accompanied by some such exceedingly rich patches
that it is thought that the nortli level will average 18
per cent. # +
Mt. Lyell (Tas.) sends out a return of 730 tons
copper from 29,532 tons ore j total for three months,
2125 tons copper from 86,306 tons ore, which cuts up into
an average of nearly 21 p.c. This is a big improvement.
The smelters have been in the habit of treating some-
like 400,000 tons of ore per annum, so an extra
quarter per cent, means 1000 tons of copper, raising the
annual output to 10,000 tons. Mt. Lyell is one of the
world’s best instances of furnace concentration ; for,
although the average gold assay is below ldwt. and
silver below 20z., the furnace brings up the values con-
tained in 739 tons of blister copper to 58,1600 z. silver and
12720 z. gold. The furnaces and converters lately pro-
duced a ton of blister from 41 tons of ore, instead of the
46 tons required some, time since j so with working costs
at 165., the actual gain by reduced costs was equal to £4
per ton of blister.
Manager Sticht, of North Mt. Lyell, reported
the other day that 5 per cent, copper ore had been struck
in the deepest level, at 1100ft. vertical. The east cross-
cut was taken to 136ft. , and then they drove south along
the contact of the conglomerate. Sticht considers that
this development is the downward continuation of the
fine ore body lately discovered at the 1000ft. level. The
latter is 150ft. long by 20ft. wide. If this is the same
body it is displaced at the bottom level; but Sticht
explains that by theorising that the ore body is pitching
rapidly to the south.
* * ■ * *
No new tin ground opened up in Tasmania in
late years has been so promising as some that an Ade-
laide crowd has got hold of at the Great Pyramid, on
the Scainander. Tin deposits are, of course, notoriously
tricky ; but this lot looks as though it is going to give
the people .who are opening it up a good run for their
money.
* * * *
English copper statistics are still unfavorable.
Henry Merton and Co., whose reports are generally
accepted, show that production is still ahead of consump-
tion, and that the stocks in England and France have
lately been added to at the rate of about 5000 tons per
month.
* * * *
Maoriland hasn’t swept up all its rich dredging
patches yet. The Good Chance, of Dunedin, formed only
a few months ago, got to work in the beginning of May ;
and its first dividend, declared last month, was equal to
half the capital.


This Favorite
WINE takes no
Handicapped by Grey Hair!
mßMaaaßßaaaßMiannßaaßßß^Ha
Men and women who look older than they are meet
with many disabilities. Only those who suffer know
what premature greyness means.
Scalp disease is the cause which it is necessary to
cure ; then new hairs of the natural, rich color will come
to replace those Which have faded.
Mrs. Cowling cures greyness, using no stains or dyes.
Her inexpensive treatment is individual, specially pre-
scribed for each patient. Her excellent testimonials
prove how successful she is.
Those who cannot call and see her should send 3d. in
stamps to cover postage, and she will send copies of her
testimonials and a descriptive booklet. The address is—
MRS. COWLING, Dept. B, HYGEIA INSTITUTE,
Ocean House, opposite Government Savings Bank,
Moore Street, Sydney.
pi.
OB«R
Bless your soul, 1 don’t mind
how many meals a day 1 cook
so long as the missus isn’t stingy
with the tea—l must have a cup
first thing in the mornin’, at
eleven o’clock, and another about
three. You’ve no idea what a lot
of work there is in a kitchen—
there’s hardly a break in the
day, for as soon as one lot’s
cleared away you have to start
gettin’ ready for the next, and
so it goes on from mornin’
to night.
The meanest thing 1 know is
for a missus to get two sorts of
tea —rubbish for the kitchen and
another for inside. Kitchen tea
is nearly always the sort that
leaves a nasty taste in your
mouth, or else it’s no better
than chopped-up straw—no use
to anyone, much less a woman
who has to stand over a stove
all day like me.
1 don’t stand any nonsense
w'hen 1 goes to a new place,
1 tells the missus straight 1 won’t
drink any other tea but Robur
No. 1 Grade, and if she doesn’t
agree to get it 1 don’t go—and
do you know after a bit they
all gets to like it just as much
as 1 do, and lots of them
has said how much obliged they
are to me for introducing such
good tea to ’em, and most of
’em has told me it’s the best
they’ve ever had. And you’ll
say so too if ever you make up
your mind to use it.
The Cook.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 28, 1909.
My Dear Arint.—
I found this recently in a local paper :
Out in French’s Forest recently two troops of Boy
Scouts were taking part in an attack and defence scheme.
The defenders were the Royal Naval House Troop, and
the attackers the Mosman Troop. It had come to the
phase of the game when everyone was expecting anything
to happen, and wanted to lash out and do something in
order to end the tense suspense. The defenders’ outposts
were stationed at intervals within sight of one another,
cleverly concealed, but watchful and alert. They knew
the attackers were creeping up relentlessly through the
bush ahead, but not a twig snapped or a blade of grass
moved as far as the eye could reach.
Presently, however, one of the outposts heard a move-
ment ahead, and then a man and a woman came into
sight. They walked straight towards them, the man in
advance. They came to within a few yards of the scout,
when he sprang to his feet.
“ Halt and give the password ! ” he called sharply, with
his staff at the ready.
The man looked surprised. He could not understand.
“ Who are you ? ” he asked.
“ The password or go back ! ” was the reply.
“ But this is my path, and I am going through here,”
persisted the man.
“Not without the password !” was the reply. “My
orders are not to let anyone by unless they give the pass-
word.”
“ Do you own this ground ? ” asked the man.
“ No ; but I own this post.”
“ Well, then, I am going through.”
“You are not. You must go round our lines.”
The man, who at first was angry at the obstruction,
began to think.
“There must be something in this,” he said. “ Any-
how, I am going through.”
The scout’s staff came up to the ready, and the call of
the penguin was heard. Through the bushes behind a
patrol ran to his assistance. The strangers were sur-
rounded by khaki-clad figures and taken through the
lines to the officer-in-cbatge.
“ By what authority is this done?” asked the man of
the senior scoutmaster-in-charge.
“ I take the responsibility, sir,” was the reply. “ The
orders were that no one was to be allowed to pass under
any circumstances.”
If the above is true it occurs to me that the time
has come for the Boy Scout to be spoken to in a
firm tone of voice. Here is an inoffensive burgher
who goes, presumably with his young woman, for
a walk. They are courting, one makes no doubt.
They may be “walking out” or “keeping com-
pany.” The world-old lies that lead up to either
matrimony or a breach of promise action are being
happily retailed when, without ashadow of justifica-
tion, a, small, theatrical and dirty boy crawls from
beneath a bush and arrests them. He further-
more threatens them with physical violence,
assault and battery, force mnjeure and other un-
pleasantness. A pleasing position forsooth for a
citizen anxious to cut a creditable figure before the
lady of his choice ! What self-respecting female
would marry, much less regard as a hero, a man
who had been bull dozed by a Boy Scout? I note
that one of the main exercises of these lads is
“creeping on the scout.” I venture to forecast
that if things progress as they are doing, a
maddened adult civilian will give the youth-
ful warriors a free exhibition of this pastime
shortly. He will creep on the Scout at
about 30 miles an hour, and smite him
eight or nine times. The small boy is well
enough so long as he keeps his place, but
when his congenital passion for posturing in fancy
dress leads him to go about hampering and inter-
fering with the marriage tie in public places, it is
full time for someone to chase him back to his
mother.
Apropos, this craze for dressing up seems to be
growing on the juvenile community. I have been
encountering Girl (likewise Women and Old
Women) Scouts of late looking sheepish in pre-
posterous Barnum Powell hats and other weird
contraptions. The public school children are
regularly tricked out in garish ribbons and
things on Empire Day and like festivities,
and when so disguised they are despatched into
the public street to attract the scornful finger of
the multitude. A popular method of diverting a
Governor nowadays is to lure him to a show-
ground where are several thousands of infants
in absurd colored clothes waving Union Jacks.
Is it to be wondered that, with this sort
of example, the rising generation is taking, so soon
as it reaches an age to clothe itself, to garb con-
taining all the colors of a bird of Paradise, where-
by any day of the week it presents, as it does the
(Block, the semblance of a perambulating rainbow ?
If only for Art’s sake I would like to see some
form of sumptuary law introduced forbidding
innocent children to be clad by their elders in
vaudeville costume.
Lady Chelmsford’s principal obligation last
week was the opening of a bazaar in St. James’
Hall in aid of the Melanesian Mission. Her Ex.
fulfilled the obligation quite prettily. It was a
very comprehensive bazaar, and included most
articles of wearing raiment for grown girl and
infancy, as well as things to make the house beauti-
ful. Those fatally fattening items, cakes and
high-class sweets, seemed to draw the best trade.
But if one fattens to aid a good cause the extra
poundage is excusable. In fact, one can imagine
Honorary Treasurer F. G. Redman becoming
enthusiastic over fat acquired through that reason.
Mr. Adrian Knox is back after sampling the joys
of well nigh every racecourse in England and' a
couple of royal dinners. He has left his wife —
who is a sister of Mr. Willy Lawson, now per-
manently domiciled in London—to follow him
here later on.
Many of our overseas visitors, the Commercial
Uongressioners, arestillplayingaboutinoneorother
<of the Australian capitals. Others, like the children
urn Mrs. Hemans’ verse, are scattered far and wide
by Miount and stream and sea. Work being over, all
last week was given up to “jags” of a high class.
As a case in point, our commercial callers went on
an intellectual jag to a conversazione at the Uni-
versity. The occasion celebrated the opening of
the Fisher Library and the Peter Nicol Russell
Engineering School, by Ex. Chelmsford. Ex. was
.accompanied by his consort, garbed in heavenly
blue, and wearing a feather boa to keep away the
winds that howled from the four quarters of the
landscape. The Fisher Library represents the
gift of a deceased Sydneysider, the building being
erected out of funds supplied by theLyne Govern-
ment ; and the Engineering School is the outcome
of a second £50,000 gift from Knight P. N. Rus-
sell, who seceded from living a few years ago, and
whose widow still resides in gilded absenteeism.
After the inevitable speech and flashlight, the
vari-colored hooded and gowned crowd of profs.,
grads, and fellows, with their feminine card-
holders, set out to explore the new buildings. The
most ornamental of them is the Fisher Library,
said to be the finest example of Gothic art in the
Southern Hemisphere. The ceilings, of carved
cedar, have pendant from them a number of most
beautiful raediseval-looking circular lamps of
stained glass; armorial bearings carved in stone
adorn the walls, and above the reading-
desks modern green-shaded electrics light
up ancient prints, old MSS. and Latin
greetings from other Universities. In his
particular part of the establishment, Professor
David lecturetted with limelight views on the
Frozen South as a summer resort, and showed the
rival North Polar claimants, together with the
Peary baby that was born within the Arctic
Circle some years ago. Professor Warren dis-
played interesting things with regard to Aus-
tralian timber, and in the medical labora-
tory pet germs were under the microscope
for inspection. When coffee and claret time came
an adjournment was made to the Macleay Museum,
where things that creep and things that crawl are
bottled and stuffed ; and the risk of consuming a
dried centipede between a sandwich was great,
owing to the semi-darkness that prevailed.
Amongst the notable Commonwealthers return-
ing to Sydney are Mr. Owen Cox and Mr. J. C.
Williamson. They are on the Makura, due here
early next month. The Wards, of Maoriland,
left the same vessel at Suva, and make the
remainder of their journey on one of our old war-
ships.
The motor-car is determined to keep in the
current of events. Two consultant physicians,
Drs. Foreman and Taylor-Young, were lately
travelling in a car owned by the first-named when
it is alleged to have slain a man. The guinea-
cologists are much distressed, though they don’t
reckon that the chauffeur is to blame. According
to witness, the car was only travelling a trifle
quicker than a fat caterpillar when it hit the
man. Anyhow, the chauffeur has been committed
for trial.
Mr. Arthur Allen, too, has been chastened by
medium of two of his motor cars. One of them
went lame on the Gordon-road, and its fellow
hen-slayer was sent for to tow the derelict home.
On the journey one car hugged the other too hard,
and it responded by bursting into flames. A
brigade with cold cascade quenched the chug-
chug after it had been extensively damaged.
The Betty-Ohls-MeQuades are back in Sydney
from Maoriland, and staying with the bride-
groom’s mother at Potts Point. The bride’s own
country is their next objective.
Mrs. Arthur Allen and Mrs. Philip Street are
the hon. secs, for the ball to be held on October
6 in aid of the Royal Alexandra Hospital for
children. Living Bridge will be one of the
startling attractions. Mrs. J. Spencer Brunton
and Mrs. G. H. Green are the hon. treasurers.
The ball will spin at the Town Hall.
Any charity ball committee striving for a fresh
gallery attraction is hereby advised to try the
“Morris Dance.” Ye olde English measure, as
trodden by a bevy of white*robed girls
against the background of a high green hedge
at Miss Gurney’s school breaking-up last
week was a delightful item in the passing
hop. Mrs. Malcolmson Boult, who trained
the youngsters for this part of the performance,
was also responsible for their stately pacing
through an old (early Louis) French dance.
Yesterday in the rain occurred the marriage of
Miss Averne, one of the Parliamentary typists,
and Dr. O’Neill, of Wahroonga.
Miss Eglantine Campbell was married at St.
James’, to Lieutenant North, of the Powerful, on
a rainy day last week. Fiona, which belongs to a
branch of the Knox family, and is rented by the
Onslow who is the hope, pride, and political
standby of a section of the Waverley electors, was
loaned for the reception which transpired subse-
quently. Colonel Selwyn Campbell, that perfectly-
groomed old sportsman who has been a feature of
every Melbourne and Sydney festivity for longer
than most people care to recall, gave away the
bride, who is his niece, and when it was all over
the just-wedded pair fled to the Port Hacking
home of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Allen.
The Arthur Allen pair command a position of
unrivalled distinction in two directions, viz. (1)
they have lent their cottage at Port Hacking to
more honeymoon couples than any other house-
holders in the entire Commonwealth ; and (2)
they stand alone as givers of the most Brobding-
nagian theatre-parties on record. As to the first
count, things have come to such a pass that the
young society person doesn’t feel that she has
been really hitched at all unless and until she has
“ sweetly honeymooned ” (as Shaw hath it in his
“ Admirable Bashville ”) at the Allen cottage by
the sea. As an instance of their predilection in
the second direction, the Allens are entertaining
a party of 30 at “The King of Cadonia” next
Saturday night. And this is nothing to the
parties of the kind which have gone before.
The engagement is announced of Miss Winifred
Ryrie, one of the big pastoralist family of that
ilk, to Captain Fenwick. The prospective bride-
groom was out here a while back, and is a first
cousin of the Captain Gilliat who guards the
persons of the vice-regalities at Federal Govern-
ment House. The lady is tall, fair and strikingly
good-looking.
There’s a Fisheries’ Exhibition raging at the
Exchange. The exhibits, it is true, are calm and
self-possessed, like the bust of Christopher
Columbus seen by Mark Twain. They are to the
number of 600 in as many sealed jars. With few
exceptions, they represent the edible finned
things to be found in Australian waters.
Amongst the exceptions, I don’t miss much
but the whale and the merman. The goblin
fish is worse than the Face that comes to
the Window in the melodrama. But in com-
parison with the Japanese demon crab it would
take a beauty prize. The descriptive slip sayeth
not if the demon crab is found in Australia. It is
of a pale biscuit color, and on its back or upper
side are the features of a Japanese face of terrify-
ing aspect. Not one is missing or indefinite, and
even the expressions of diabolical humor and calm
are there. The legend runs that upon a day a
crab (he must have been the Adam of his tribe)
looked up from his foraging and saw a certain god.
So frightened was the poor shell fish that the
image of the deity was stamped upon him and his
descendants. This crab ought to be used as an
anti-Socialistic bogey at election time. He looks
like a wrecker of the home.
The exhibition was enhanced the other day by
the addition of a giant prawn. “The largest
ever seen,” says an authority. It is as big as a
two-months’ old kitten, and must have put up a
good fight in the catching. “Desperate struggle
between fisherman and prawn ” sounds ridiculous,
doesn’t it ? We’d say it was another fish lie if we
read it on the poster-board of an evening paper.
And yet this prawn looks a fighter from the
ground up.
The ever popular Fred Shipman pair leaves
Auckland in Ward’s Own Country about this
time for the same land—the land of the Pole-
catchers (Pole-cats for short). Bengough, the
Shipmans’ travelling attraction, took very well in
M.L. He took its money afid it took his cartoons,
and both were satisfied.
Possibly to fortify himself against the hours’
strain of the superb High Mass on the morrow,
the Governor-General went to the Palace Theatre
on Saturday afternoon, and beamed upon the
Stage Society’s production of “Candida.” The
Hore-Ruthvens and Lord Richard Nevill added
their rays to His beam, and the result was a posi-
tive git re of Society success. The artistic success
doesn’t matter ; the financial one is assured. The
performance was in aid of the Women’s Hospital,
and the matron’s bouquet was the first of about a
score presented to Mrs. T. H. Kelly, who was the
Candida of thesatire. I had read “Candida” some
years ago, and can distinctly remember pencilling
my opinion on the margin of the book: “Shaw
ought to get a sound thrashing for this.” On
Saturday I mentally added to the original
opinion : “ And be left for dead.” But since then
one who knows his Bernard Shaw from soup to
nuts has explained the intellectual, not to say the
cryptic, significance of the play, and it’s all
now as clear as what became of the Waratah.
But I was wooden-headed in good company.
The stunned expression on the faces in the audi-
torium and the criticisms in the two morning
dailies prove as much. Henceforth I intend to
wallow in Shawian material. So look out for
quotations.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly as Candida, the strenuous
cleric’s wife, courageously put her hair back from
a brainy forehead —that forehead accounts for
much —and most probably acted just like the
bright and good being that Shaw created.
Her amateur helpers were in three instances
capital. Mr. Frank Arnold, as the parson,
deserved to have bouquets thrown at him, and he
made quite realisable “ Prossy’s Complaint.”
Prossy is his typist, and she and all his congrega-
tion are in love with him. Mr. Leslie Casey, as
the hysterical, bladder-headed poet, was beauti-
fully fitted ; and Mr. W. L. Vincent, as Candida’s
old blighter of a father, was the third success.
Mrs. Buhrow grasped the star part in “How
He Lied to Her Husband,” and handled it with
charm and a pretty foreign accent. Her two
amateur aides reminded respectively of (1) the
late Henry VIII. at his bluffest, and (2) any
young hypochondriac.
Amy Castles sang at the High Mass held on
Sunday at St. Mary’s Cathedral. The Mass
must have been Higher than usual, for it lasted
from 11 o’clock to 1.30. Many of the devout were
thankful that the Australasian Catholic Congress
won’t again occur in Sydney for another seven years.
Half a dozen gorgeous priests conducted a stately
ceremonial through which their Federal Excel-
lencies the Dudleys, two daughters and some of
the staff preserved an interested demeanor.
When the soprano lifted her voice in the “In-
flammatus” the two pretty daughters frankly
turned and gazed at the choir. In fact, none of
the vice-regals but Private Secretary Callan, who
is an R.C., was praying very hard. This week the
R.C. Congress will rage through matters of intel-
lect and entertainment.
Last -night (Monday) the Cardinal gave a con-
versazione in Sydney Town Hall. The bidden
were told that it was to meet their Chelmsford
Excellencies and the Hierarchy of Australasia.
Wednesday next a concert to honor the Hier-
archy occurs at the Town Hall, when Amy Castles
and contralto Rooney will sing.
It is a hippopotamus of a day, and not the first
amphibian of its kind either. In fact, it is one of
a herd. On Sunday it began to hippo, in a dis-
graceful manner. The waves in Our Harbor rose
to the height of the walls of Jericho, or even of a
fowlhouse, and report says that a blacksmith’s
anvil was seen blowing along the Quay. Poor
little Amy Castles, dressed in oilskins, waited the
arrival of a friend’s motor-launch to take her
for an afternoon trip. The gallant vessel started
out for its melodious load, but after rounding
Cremorne Point, the green waters broke in ava-
lanches on its roof, and it began to canter hor-
ribly over the heaps and holes of the frothy sea,
and the feminine freight already on board com-
menced to think Waratah thoughts. Then it
spoke them. It said it wasn’t fit to die until it
had attended church more regularly, and it didn’t
believe its body would be ever found if it perished
out there. So the owner turned back.
Mrs. N. P. Bayly, who died recently, used to be
a superb hostess at Havilah, near Mudgee. Her
old home was more recently the residence of Mrs.
White / owner of Beulah Flats and other large
properties. The place got its name in a peculiar
fashion. A picnic was being held thereabouts,
and amongst the picnickers was the Rev. Mr.
Gunther, then in charge of the Anglican church
at Mudgee, and father of the Archdeacon of that
name. It was the early gold boom time, and
people couldn’t even walk up a city street without
looking for “indications.” The party found some
specks, and when Parson Gunther found his speck
he excitedly quoted that remark from the 42nd
verse of Genesis about “the whole land of Havi-
lah, where there is gold.” The designation stuck.
Another £2 sterling for the Hospice for the
Dying is to hand. The sender supplies neither
name nor address—merely the alias of “Out
Back ” and the intimation that he, the generous
Out-Backman, had read my mew about the
Hospice. There are, I believe, inhabited districts
in Australia where mails are delivered only every
three months. Hall’s Creek, somewhere in the
north of W. A., for instance. I would not be sur-
prised if, after The Bulletin with the Hospice
mew in it reaches Hall’s Creek, I got a sub-
scription from there. “Out Back” is hereby
thanked on behalf of the charity he benelits.
Miss Lily Gardiner, the gorgeous young local
damsel in whom the Duke of the Abruzzi took a
paternal interest when he was last out here, has
been married in London. Her spouse is a pluto-
cratic party, by all accounts, who simply drips
motor-cars, pearl necklaces and things.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
DIAMOND RINGS.
SELECTIONS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
Iff ufW N°4HOME
SI li -uEDICALAPPARATyS
‘' ill 111 WITH DRY BATTERT
*
KS
-Si
TsSg
Invest in a
Jerdan s Home Battery
Instead of spending money on drugs, l
baths, etc., for Rheumatism, Lumbago, |
Nervousness' or Lassitude, invest in a- :
“Home” Battery.
You CANNOT hope for anything more
efficacious that will give such SURE and
permanent relief to young and old in any
ordinary ailment or disorder.
It is used in Hospitals alLover the>
world. Doctors strongly recommend it.
The “Home” Battery is simply
worked and most easily adapted.
Try it.
Price 35/-
Post Free
anywhere »
Send for the FREE BATTERY BOOKLET.
JORDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
IT’S ALL IN THE
CORDS” !
The foundation of most Motor Tyres is canvas. Not only
is the material supersensitive to climatic changes—'
it is the WRONG material in the WRONG place.
[' 1
iM
*. - ■ H!
PALMER CORO TYRES
have a solid foundation of rubber-impregnated CORDS —
CORDS which remain taut under all conditions.
It is the RIGHT material in the RIGHT place. May
we send you explanatory Booklet and Price List ? Posted
free anywhere. The stamp it costs for the enquiry will
prove a good investment.
26,609
miles at a
cost of less
than id. per
mile. Par-
ticulars of
this Record
with Palmer
Cord Tyres
on applica-
tion.
The Silvertown Rubber Company,
279 George Street, Sydney.
CHEAP COITION of ON TNE HOP!
Price /g Postage—N.S.W., 7cl. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, {Sydney.
BUILDING LOTS ARE SAFE
INVESTMENTS.
SYDNEY is growing faster than any other big city south of the
line, and land values in Sydney and suburbs are increasing
correspondingly. Good property anywhere within 30 miles of the
city is a safe and very profitable investment.
We sell more unimproved city property than any other firm in
Australia. At the present time we have on our books an unusually large
selection of reallv good investments. We have space for only a few.
Write our Explanation Department “ C ” for further lists and plans.
CLYDE— II miles from Sydney, in the
heart of the coming factory district; hig,
level lots; one minute to station; 15s.
foot; £1 down, 10s. monthly.
BANKSTOWN —On the new Bel-
more railway extension ; lots on Greenacre
Park Estate, 132 ft. x 330 ft. ; few minutes
to station ; ss. foot; £1 down, 10s. month.
CRO NU L L A— Near the famous
beach ; close to new Sutherland-Oronulla
tram; few minutes to Port Hacking
fisheries; Lot J 825, £1 down, 10s. month.
AUBURN —Lots on estate adjoining -
the site of the new abattoirs, which are to
cost a million sterling; big prospective
value ; £ 25, £1 deposit, 10s. month.
TURRAMURRA— A select locality;
750 ft. above city ; only 10 miles out;
choice block of 8 acres near station, going
at iJIO an acre ; £4 down, 30s. monthly.
A fine investment.
FIVE DOCK— Elevated lots, one
minute to tram ; excellent locality; from
245. foot; £2 deposit, £1 month.
TWO FINE FARMS.
We have two specially fine improved farms for quick sale. Each is #
the pick of its district. If you are interested, write promptly. They
will both be snapped up scion.
DOUGLAS PARK, 417 acres, almost
half ready for the plough; rich soil;
good fences; two small cottages; four
dams ; a choice property, only six miles
from the station and 50 miles from Sydney.
Price, £4= an acre. Terms, 5 per cent,
cash ; balance in 60 equal monthly pay-
ments, 5 per cent, interest.
QUAKER’S HILL, 20 acres of very-
rich soil; well fenced ; big dam ; very
easily cleared ; three miles to Blacktown
Junction, 25 miles from Sydney, five
minutes to Quaker’s Hill Station. £l7
an acre; 5 pi-r cent, df'po.vit, balance
spread over five years.
yfrihar
<zCo&(f
icfcar\
84 B P,«S(
EdiSf
iec o !
! *>■
I'
New Edison Records
for October!
We recognise that variety is the spice of life, and so the
new list of Edison Records is as varied as any could wish.
Yet with all its variety it maintains that high standard of
excellence which has made the Edison Phonograph a welcome
friend in every corner of the habitable globe.
The October list combines numerous pathetic, sentimental
and classical numbers of the star artists of the world—any
or all of which would vastly improve your collection.
Steve Porter and Tom Wo >twell are fairly representative
of the comic element; Ada Jones, Billy Murray and Manuel
Romain provide some sweet sentimental songs ; Peter Dawson
is heard in a fine patriotic air with martial swing; some
beautiful sacred quartettes and band items are included, and
the classical side is well provided by the American Symphony
Orchestra, Maurice Levi and his band, and the Oratorio
Mixed Chorus.
Altogether the 50 new records (24 Standard 2-minutes
umd 26 Amberol 4-minutes) are a grand addition to the
Edison lists, and we ask you to call on your nearest dealer
and hear those you fancy. We supply the complete lists on
•request.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


The result of the .Austral-English cricket
contests show what a big factor in success is the
optimism born of a genial climate. And since the
optimism of a genial mental climate can always
be secured by sunny gleams of the scholarly
brand, a big score on life’s wicket is assured by
judicious appeals to D.C.L., the Whisky of the
Wise.*
HhH
r> r
mm •
“The Real Test
of Quality ”
In Corsets is not to be gauged by their
mere appearance. Sometimes the most
elaborate showing simply serves to
hide a multitude of defects, In the
famous French
Royal “P.D.”
Rustless Corsets
“ QUALITY ” is emphasised from the
exterior right throughout every detail of
construction. Scientific skill—the
highest medical supervision—the deft
touch of dainty and expert French
Corsetieres—all have served to make
the ROYAL “ P.D.” CORSETS celebrated
for over Twenty Years as the ideal
Corsets of Fashion, with comfort and
health thoroughly safeguarded.
“Ask Your Draper
About the Latest Styles.”
TRADE
mm.
P.D
P. D
MARK
i fwm
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going hand in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture cf the most desirable Motor Tyres—and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,” and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 27, 1909.
Mr ITteAR Yarrik,—
Far fching-in-the-pound Fink is dead. Benjamin
Josmun Fink introduced that mighty mite into
Austialia just as misguided squattahs introduced
sparrows, snails, rabbits and starlings. Fink had
a Napoleonic fancy. He was wont to strut round
with hands clasped at the back of a protuberant
lower chest, while a dark lock was pulled gloomily
over his pallid brow. But the earlier Napoleon
never carried a small black bag (not in history,
anyhow), and Farthing Fink’s black bag was part of
his anatomy. In tram and ’bus and train—always
this black cavern, holding folded financial papers;
and a Fink face studying and gloating and con-
ning—the face of a man who was always Finking
hard. In the House it was the same thing.
When a frivolous member concealed a novel in
the imposing hackstand of the latest bluebook,
Fink studied his everlasting black-bag papers
from the same happy screen.
Men say that Mrs. Benjamin Fink, a tall, hand-
some woman, was the brainy power behind the
throne. She is credited with a genius for finance.
Mrs. Fink is in London with the son and daugh-
ter. They have lived mostly in that city for
years, though there is an estate in Surrey that
filled in out-of-season times. Daughter Winifred
and her brother visited their native country for a
short spell three years ago, but that is the extent
of their devotion to their motherland. Longstaff
once painted a glorified portrait of the girl, who is
a beauty, anyway.
Fink died on the same day as his fellow boomer
Bent. A brother, Mark Fink, is spoken of as a
nominee for the vacant Brighton seat.
In Blamire Young’s picture show there is a
photo, of a door that belonged to his house in the
Blue Mountains. It was sketched over its four
panels by Phil May, a guest at the humpy.
Theodore Fink and Rivers were other guests.
Phil May drew a head of each on the panels, and
scrawled on one, “A Fink of beauty is a joy for
Rivers ” ; and on another, “ Art is long ; my visit
is shorter.”
There is a brand-new aide to the Carmichaels —
a “broth of a boy,” clean-shaven and altogether
beautiful. Secretary Victor Hood goes on so many
country expeditions with the adventurous Gover-
nor that possibly Mrs. Carmichael protested that
an extra g<*ntleman-help was a necessity to mind
her in the various bazaars and things that require
opening. Mrs. Carmichael grows as apt at the
job as his Excellent Self, and can speak just as well.
It’s a soul-harrowing life, this round of suburban
ceremonials.
Carmichael pushes open the Norman Lindsay
show on Tuesday, after this letter departs to
press. An extra special view before the opening
was indulged in on Monday, over the dancing
swearing bodies of the “hangers.” The show,
which is in Furlong’s studio, will last a fortnight.
Suburban mayoral hops are much alike on the
whole, but Williamstown indulged in a wild and
unorthodox departure for its high ball. The port
that people won’t spend money on got hilarious
itself, and the land became badly mixed with
Port Phillip’s waters. The decorous mayoral
roysterers danced on like the beauty and chivalry
that circulated in Belgium’s capital the night
before Waterloo, oblivious to the howl of the
elements. Then, at the shriek of the last train,
they discovered the awful fact of a river or an
estuary that flowed between the Town Hall and
the railway-station. Most of the gallants were
forced to carry their “girls” over the tur-
bulent way, and the majority of mayoral
women folk are persons of flesh and tonnage. The
staggering of red-faced men under the too vo-
luptuous charms of the Important Ones was a
tragedy mercifully veiled from the eyes of any
but the few. The local small boy, thank Heaven,
was in bed, considering in his dreams how he
would break a Chinaman’s window next day.
For the satire of the small boy is like conscience—
it makes cowards of them all.
Miss Irene Marks, that magnificent sample of
Sassiety charmer who was wont to dazzle the
States in their “ seasons” with marvellous frocks,
is playing a shadow part in London. She is a
wan, sick girleen, knocked under by something
the doctors call tuberculosis of the knees.
Captain Staughton and the officers of the Orient
spent a very moist few days in Melbourne, bidding
farewell on behalf of their ship. As much bubbly
water was poured over its departure as seas in a
gale pour over its bows. The mailboat, which has
been the happy hunting-ground of more exciting
flirtations than any other of the liners, is being
withdrawn from work at a “stiddy job,” and will
receive an old-age pension and socks to knit.
Captain Staughton and some of his subordinates
are R.N.R. men, so they gave the naval farewell
Jto a vessel that is going into seclusion. As the
Orient left Port Melbourne on Tuesday she flew
the “paying-off pennant”—a white ribbon
streamer, about 120 ft. long, with a white ball
topping it off into the ether. The Orient has
visited Australia almost continuously for 30 years.
A sporty friend who was at Flemington on
Saturday—not that she loved Shakspeare less,
but that she loved gee-gee more—tells me that the
Leslie McDonalds, just back from the Big Smoke,
seemed to be the Hunt Club’s particular guests of
the day. Grand Dame Power, with Mrs. Reggie
(in all green) descended from the vice-regal pen,
where they had been sitting in state, to extend the
glad glove of welcome to the “gentleman trainer”
and his handsome wife. Mrs. Leslie, it was re-
marked, wore the shortest of walking skirts under
her driving-coat—short enough to call attention
to her black pearl boot buttons —and pitched her
voice two tones higher than of yore. The cor-
rect London voice this test-match season was
seemingly a high-pitched one that broke to—well,
say ankle. Mrs. Everard Browne was the hit of the
day for frocking. She achieved a North Pole
effect in coat and skirt of white face cloth, much
strapped and punctured, whilst her lid was a
dream of white roses, lace and straw.
The Hyamses, whose kiddie dancers will get
their annual kick-up later on, have been persuaded
by their senior pupils to give a fancy dress and
mask ball at St. Kilda Town Hall on Tuesday,
the sth.
Southwell —“Southy,” of Sydney—looks like a
returned explorer these days. His tan is an inch
and a decimal thick, and if it proved that he was
the real finder of the Pole, his travelled aspect
would lend verisimilitude to the bald and uncon-
vincing narrative. But it is southern exploring
he has been—advancing Melba. The Sydneyite
has been in reality “discovering” some of Vic-
toria’squite populous cities of Wayback. They
do surprise a stranger who looks for a pub,; a
blacksmith’s humpy, a post office and a stray goat.
Mauger, of the Williamson firm, departs this
city. “Jack and Jill” and all its jokes are on
the move westward. It pulls up next at Perth.
A pantomime is like a new sin ; once committed
it goes on through almost endless cycles before the
consequences entirely peter out.
Probably one of the most impressive things that
has struck this frivolous city for years was the
Asehe co.’s speeching of “Julius Caesar” on
Saturday afternoon. It is hard to imagine the
Town Hall turned into anything of an impressive
background, but it was. Sombre black velvet
made screens in layers and angles, and rose even
to the tip-top of the organ pipes. Steps descend-
ing between the dusky layers were black shrouded,
and the grilled skylights aloft carried black palls
(so that a crowded, heavy-breathing audience was
in black darkness), and screened limelight men
made magic with the gorgeously-clothed Romans
who stalked abroad in the gloomy dusk of the plat-
form. Oscar Asehe put fire and feeling and
majestic strength into his Brutus, despite the fact
that he looked a blacksmith—a mighty-thewed
plebeian—instead of an eagle-moulded patrician
of Rome. He stalked in his midnight sleepless-
ness with a vast toga of white warming his shoul-
ders, but a few-inch tunic skirt leaving naked
limbs to the mercy of the draughts. Those Romans
must have been cold on Saturday. The women
folk did not speak much out of their turn
in the old warlike days. Brutus’s wife, Portia,
made the most of her few midnight moments of
speech. Lily Brayton, as she. came from the
shades trailing an elaboration of white classical
folds, was a convincing patrician—“ Wife to
Brutus and Cato’s daughter.” - One only strikes a
shadowy tribute to Portia in the last act, when
Brutus, in his camp, weeps her death, “and hear-
ing this, she swallowed fire and slew, herself.”
Poor woman; she must have eaten a box of
matches. Caesar’s wife (a much too modern-
looking Calpurnia) also is strictly suppressed
after her nightmare-ridden appeal to the purple-
toga-ed one to stay indoors in case the weather
rained daggers.
Elfreda Clement made a pretty shadow as
Lucius, the dog-devoted boy servant of the Brutus
family. A scarlet fillet in her dark hair and a most
ungrundyish tunic, leaving shapely limbs only
clad in tights to the thighs, turned her into a
slender column for the carrying of Brutus’ shield.
In battle clothes, the Roman leaders beat the
modern soldier by a furlong for get-up. Most
impressive were their naked arms and nether
limbs, and the body encased in moulded gold and
silver, and the magnificence of the glorified fire-
man’s helmet topped with a curved brush of
scarlet feather. The warriors of those days were
killing without a doubt.
lan Penny, billed as Mark Antony, was no more
than a self-conscious beauty man, glad of the
black velvet mountings of the Forum to back-
ground his white and scarlet toga. The Mark
Antony of history did not appear at all in this
lisping speech-maker. The rabble was a color-
drunk throng, with faded, ragged toggery of
deafening hues and vivid faces and pale or blue-
black hair. One rabble let her Tit an hair do the
shouting against the black background aloft.
The servants were melodious notes in the color.
They pattered softly over the stage in the dusk in
happy dressing gowns of dull blue or wicked
orange. Alack—for such beautiful servants now-
adays !
Mrs. Carmichael sat below the platform cricking
her neck to see the show. The Honorable daughter,
just out and dressed in white, gazed from her
orchestra stall. All the Maddens, from his
whitening ex-Excellency to baby Beatrice, held up
the front row with a lean Vallange prop. Schools
brought the “parlor” boarders, and mammas
brought sons with them for their education. Mrs.
Softgoods Butler sat between her growing boys.
Medico Ewing’s dame engineered a party. A
matinee is a fearsome thing. The she-woman
comes in with her hat on. No usher
says “Please leave your hat in the hat-
room,” and so brings a mirror, a hairpin,
a powder-puff and a calm content to the
unhatting. No, the lady sits down in all her
clothes. Then someone behind whispers, “Please
take off your hat.” There is a scuffled swear, a
clanking of hat-pins, a flushed face, towsled hair
and an escaping cfirl or two are for the eye of
escorting Algernon when the lights go up. There
was more disturbance over the removal of hats
than even over the inroads of horrible late-
comers.
Her Majesty’s is revelling in the joy of having
“The Girls of Gottenberg” back again. Even
the martial r-r-r- oil of the overture has a giddy
sound, and the whole opera goes with a jolly
dancing swing. Fan Dango is in her element—
she is allowed to dance every two minntes or so.
Tilly Woodlock comes out of the ranks of the
ballet for a special dance with Higginson. This is
a fresh appearance—the clever dancer broke
her ankle awhile ago, or damaged her
dancing self in some such murderous
way. Higginson, as a Red Hussar, is
altogether beautiful. His carnation-colored tunic
and beautifully-tailored legs are the fascination of
everything feminine in Gottenberg and out of it.
Reg Roberts has to soulfully and songfully uphold
the glory of the Blue Hussars, and the two sets of
military darlings keep things stepping in the
girly town. Gottenberg would be in for a jolly
run if “ The Catch of the Season ” were not billed
for Saturday at the same theatre. The ’Ooks
dash at the Royal next Saturday, to further help
in the gaiety of first-nighters. The theatri-
cal managements will soon be forced by
pressure of numbers to make first night a
Friday. As things are, the Fashionables are
shockingly hustled by the Saturday half-holiday
crowd. Last Saturday the crowd rushed the
sacred seats of the circled mighty (from their
back circle pen), and sat on the steps leaning
against the Directoire gown of Mrs. Toorak
Fitz Hawthorne and the irreproachable unmen-
tionables of her escort. Ushers only stopped
short of a real blue policeman in their efforts to
move them.
The King’s is at present in the throes of a pretty
bit of melodrama wherein the casual villainess
whacks her riding-boot and chirrups out her pro-
gramme of devilry in the lightsome voice of a
Sunday-school teacher planning a curate’s picnic,
and the heroine wades damply through the picture
with the fixed gaze of a blind woman and the
doleful voice of a mopoke. There is not a shoot-
ing in the whole show, but horrible scenes of doing
to death by chloroform and burning, sizzling
brands of hot iron bid for popularity in its place.
One never knows these wimmen. but the moaning
mopoke maid scarcely shows sufficient reason why
the he-fiend should do such desperate deeds for
love of her. Yet, on the other hand, melodrama
miscreants are odd mortals, and any eccentricity
in tender passion may be natural to them.
Bert Bailey, the funny man of the Andersonian
crowd, who has become so necessary to the gods’
sense of humor that an everyday “ Ha ” is couiited
as a blissful joke provided he says it—well, Bert
Bailey is taking a holiday. This holiday is his
first offence in 10 years. He must feel like John
Gilpin, or a Long Timer “ just out.” In all these
10 years he professes to have never been late for
rehearsal, and to have never missed a rehearsal
except during three days when he was ill
with something or other—insane consumption or
apoplectic burial or the like. I know it was some-
thing serious, for nothing ordinary would keep
B. Bailey away from his work. It is an appalling
record—something like that of little Willie and
saintly Annie who know the Psalms backward,
and have coupons for Sunday-school attendance
without a break since the beginning of the 18th
century.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
’Tis said their Excellencies will bang the front-door of
the Residence directly the little beast in the thermometer
climbs up to 90°, and will deposit the afternoon-tea ser-
vice, the aides and the other breakables at Mount Lofty.
This is the hilltop where Society hunts the elusive scan-
dal germ every summer. Since, apparently, the vice-
regals are not going to occupy the deputy-Residence at
Marble Hill it is concluded that we are to have the joy
of again housing the Dudleys and Lord Dicky Nevill for
part of the coming summer. In fact, I have been posi-
tively assured on bad authority that this is so.
The Commander Clares are going to make their jolly
youngster, Humphrey, an admiral, and his naval parent
has taken him off to Maoriland, where he will begin to
learn how to blow Australia’s enemies to smithereens on
board the training-ship Dartford.
This reminds me that our army got out of bed earlier
than usual last Sunday, shouldered its gun, blew two or
three blasts on its trumpet, and lined up at the Parade
Ground. Here the Excellencies and a large slice of
officialdom were already trying to keep the swirl-
ing dust out of their eyes'while they cursed worse
thah an ancient prophet. Later the armed hosts
marched to North Terrace, followed by their Excellencies
and officialdom, and formed themselves into a hollow
square in front of the National Memorial. There was
more blowing of trumpets—that is to say nearly every-
body blew his own—and various people put wreaths on
the tail of the horse that the soldier is riding over the
memorial. All of which was to do honor in some obscure
way to the fallen brave who died in the great hen-hunt
in S’Africa—the hen-hunt which S’Africa itself is trying so
hard to forget that it has federated for that express
purpose.
Mrs. Angelo, the interesting American dame who is
globe-jaunting with the American Boys, is in Adelaide,
having come from Westralia in advance of her squadron.
There are to be various ceremonials here for the young-
sters, and his Ex. will present them with South Austra-
lia’s own particular flag—which wears a magpie on it, in
case you don’t know.
The Boy Scout is beginning to roam this landscape in
bulk. The movement has caught on remarkably, and so
has the more sensible Naval Cadet idea, so that alto-
gether we shall be defended quite respectably if our
enemies will oblige us by not arriving for 15 or 20 years.
The Scouts expect to camp, a thousand strong, near Lake
Alexandria at Christmas, while the Cadets are to sail
the high seas in our one little war-boat, the Protector,
for'six days.
Last week Adelaide exhaled concerts at every pore.
The Conservatorium began it on Monday, when the staff
plaved soulful quintettes in the Elder Hall, which is
really part of our University. Next night belonged to
Miss Cooper and fiddler Nora Thomas ; while the Lieder-
tafel occupied Wednesday evening—and that was a some-
what lighter circumstance. Finally a thousand voices
from the State schools warbled to an Exhibition crammed
with fond parents, and their sieging of our “Song of
Australia” would have made the other States adopt that
national ditty on the spot if they had heard it.
Mrs. Mary Lee, one of the earliest hustlers for woman
suffrage in South Australia, has just died here, aged 88.
She came out to this country 30 years ago to nurse her
barrister son, who, however, died soon after. Mrs. Lee
stayed on, and became interested first in the movement
to encourage Jewish colonisation, and then in the suffrage
movement. She was secretary of the first Woman’s
Suffrage League, and it was owing to her strenuous
efforts that little South Aus. allowed its women to vote
some 10 years or more before the other States.
There passed out the same week J. H. Cunningham,
aged 72. He was secretary of the Freemasons, and the
Home for Incurables and half a hundred other things
engaged portions of his energetic attention.
The G. F. Clelands’ eldest demoiselle, Rita, has decided
to desert these parts in favor of the Maori Islands,
enticed thereto by Mr. Fred Partrige. She will depart
in the middle of October.
The teddy bear craze has got us a year or so late, as
usual. We try to be well in advance of the procession
with electric railways, woman suffrage, graduated land-
tax, and things like that; but in matters like teddy bears
we are a wretchedly backward community. Still the
stuffed creature has arrived. At the second night of
“ The Hypocrites ” someone fair and foolish fondled one
of the stuffed images, apparently to prove to the world
that Henry Arthur Jones had good reason to jeer at
Society.
The Robert K.vffin Thomas couple and their youngest
daughter Kathleen, who went Fogwards to the Press
Congress, are still in the British Isles, and at latest were
enjoying their morning chop at the Tennysons’ moated
hovel. The damsel, who went away a flapper, burst into
long frills recently at a kail of some circumstance.
The John Lewises ended their journeyings when the
Osterley reached the Outer Harbor last week. That is to
say Papa Lewis did. The damsels stepped off at Fre-
mantle, and stay in the West for a few weeks with their
brother.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.
So great is the interest taken in Roose-
velt's dollar-a-word narrative of his big-game
shooting expedition through Africa that extracts
from his article as it appeared in the London
Daily Telegraph have been cabled day after day
to the Australian press. The complete articles,
illustrated with photographs by Kermit Roosevelt,
are appearing serially in The Lone Hand ; and
The Lone Hand has the exclusive Australasian
serial rights of “African Game Trails. 1 ’ The first
article, “A Railroad Through the Pleistocene,”
will appear in the October issue, published to-
morrow.
The Stinking Fish party has been always
with us in a greater or less degree. Over 100
years ago Governor Phillip, of N.S.W., wrote to
a friend in England : “All my sheep are dead.
Sheep do not thrive in this country.” And when
the present writer first visited Sydney the
harassed boarding-house lady urged him to be
careful with the butter, which was Maoriland
stuff at 3s. 6d. a pound. In those days the saying
was: “ It is impossible to produce good butter in
N.S.W.”
During the past three months the carcases of
calves, varying from one day to one month in age,
have been pouring into Melbourne by the truck-
load. The technical name, amongst the dairy
farmers themselves for these carcases is “slinks ” ;
but as soon as they arrive at Melbourne they
become transformed into “ vealers.” At the open-
ing of the slink season the price paid for these
carcases is extraordinary. For calves killed within
48 hours of birth, up to 15s. and 17s. 6d. is
obtained. This, of course, implies that the butcher
who buys the rubbish must sell it for good meat.
Later on the price drops, until, at the time of
writing, slinks are bringing only 4s. and ss. each,
and there is, in consequence, much cursing and dis-
satisfaction amongst slink-men. The Western
district of Victoria is the stronghold of the slink.
A few days ago the writer saw an ordinary
covered-in truck, built to carry about 10 tons,
stacked high with slinks—tons of them. They
were of all ages and qualities, and in all sorts of
conditions, and were mostly bare and exposed to
the dust and flies. Some of the carcases were
apparently a month old and were decently pre-
pared. But the huge majority were those of
calves ranging from one to seven days old, and
were repulsive in appearance. Many dairymen
kill their calves as soon as they are born, and the
majority kill them within a week. Surely it is
time that this particular department of Private
Enterprise was severely dealt with ? At present,
so long as the slink weighs a certain amount and
is not actually decayed, it is allowed to pass
into consumption. Yet the carcases of calves
only a day or two old are notoriously unwhole-
some. The farmer never eats them himself ; and
when he goes to Melbourne he generally lives on
eggs and fish—at any rate, he never touches veal.
But the rubbish is palmed off on the poor of the
city in the shape of veal, fresh and German
sausages, polonies and Frankforts.
«,
“ Blue Tape Senior ” writes :
The Federal Old Age Pension Act has a hole in it. It is
provided that, if Methuselah has a small income of his
own, that fact roust be considered in allotting his pension,
except in one particular case—if Methuselah’s private
income is simply the little allowance he gets from his
friendly society, no deduction is made from his pension
on account of it. So in N.S.W. Methuselah the
carpenter is all right, for the private resource of his
old age is the lodge or friendly society. But
Methuselah the miner contributes to the State Miners’
Fund, and it isn’t a friendly society in the ordinary
acceptation of the term, so his little private income
causes his pension to be reduced. The matter has been
put before the Polite Political Lunatic, and Alfred the
Affable has promised that he will try to remember not to
forget to think if it will not be quite impossible to
attempt to do something some day tending to the relief
of the N.S.W. miner.


CONCERNING COMPLEXION-BEAUTY
How a Woman may keep her Complexion like a Tea-Rose Petal ;
Radiant, without Speck or Freckle.
IT has been asked : Why should humanity devote such systematic zeal and anxious
care to the culture of a beautiful flower—a lily, an orchid, a carnation—and ignore or
neglect the most beautiful of Nature’s work—Woman ? Curiously, Dr. Lykuski has
embodied the essence of a priceless herb in a preparation that is now known as Yalaze.
VALAZE is a veritable wonder-worker in transforming drab, faded and blemished skins
into clear, fresh and perfectly beautiful complexions. Owing to its inimitable properties
to obliterate every trace of freckles, sallowness, tan and sunburn ; to its pureness,
flrmness and absolute freedom from rancidity, Valaze has become almost a
household word in Australasia. In Yalaze the Society woman has found
her salvation ; she has recovered lost ground, she enjoys the satis-
faction of growing beautiful. Only a woman who has suffered
from the handicap of an unattractive face can realise the full
delight of the possession of newly-awakened beauty. The
woman, once plain, who reads a tale of growing charm each
time she looks into her mirror, until one day Beauty looks
straight into the eyes of Beauty, that woman has learned her
lesson, and knows what Valaze can do.
Mile. Rubinstein is very emphatic in the assertion
that Yalaze is not a cure-all, and accordingly she
supplies the following exclusive preparations, which are
as invaluable in their own particular sphere of useful-
ness as Valaze is in its own. The price of Valaze is 3s. 6d.
and 6s. 6d., and 6d. postage. The 6s. 6d. jar will last you
several months.
Yalaze Herbal Soap, made of rare herbs and almonds ;
pure, wholesome, and a perfect skin-cleanser. 2s. 2d. posted.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure easily and
quickly banishes every trace of this disfigurement. It prevents
the recurrence of these blemishes by actually destroying the cause.
It closes the enlarged pores, cures a greasy and coarse skin, and
assists in preserving a healthy and beautiful complexion. By its use
the skin is effectually cleansed, perfectly braced, and stimulated to healthy
action. 2s. lOd. posted.
Yalaze Liquidine, the use of which eliminates every possibility of the face ever being
disfigured by blackheads, pimples, over-moist skin and other impurities. Where these
distressing defects of the complexion have already made themselves felt, it can confi-
dently be aflirmed that Valaze Liquidine will eradicate them completely. It acts
directly on the pores, and, freeing them from over-abundant secretion, promotes healthy
circulation and skin-breathing, which are so essential to charm of complexion and
freedom from wrinkles. Price : Bs. 6d.
Valaze Lip Lustre. Lips that have become dull and blanched ; lips that look as
though they could never again frame a smile—to such lips Valaze Lip Lustre will
restore the very life-blood, a natural lip-radiance in tint. It protects the delicate lip
membrane from cracks, chaps and sores. It is a lip-food, and the coloring it imparts
cannot be displaced by biting or wetting. Prices : 3s. and 2s.
Concerning the use of Face Powders. I have been the first Com-
plexion Specialist to differentiate between the dry, over-moist or oily
and normal skin, when advising the use of powders. This accounts
for my supplying two totally distinct varieties, the Novena
Poudre, a “fat” powder, for dry and normal skins, and the
Valaze Complexion Powder for greasy skin. The prices of
each are 25., 3s. and ss. a box ; 6d. postage.
Valaze Snow Lotion is a liquid powder of rare distinc-
tion, for outdoor and evening use. It soothes, cools and
refreshes the skin, and instantly whitens it. Only the
woman who has struggled in vain to subdue a shiny oily
skin knows the full value of Valaze Snow Lotion. In
three shades—pink, cream and white—3s. 6d. a bottle.
Valaze Rouge Ten ace is of a tint absolutely natural. Its
chief virtue is subdued persistence. Even perspiration will
not dislodge it. It defies scrutiny. Is. 6d. and 3s.
No vena Sunproof Creme is a positive safeguard against the
harmful action of the sun upon the complexion. It actually
prevents sunburn, freckles and tan. It does this by chemi-
cally paralysing the sun’s rays on the skin. 2s. and 3s. 6d.
Novena Cerate, a. worthy auxiliary of Valaze, is a perfect
skin cleanser and stimulator, especially for greasy skins. It
gives a soft velvety touch, and, gradually sinking deeper, com-
pletes its work of health and beauty. 2s. and 3s. fid.
Mile. Rubinstein’s new booklet, “Beautyin the Making,” will tell you how
to treat your complexion naturally and hygienically. It tells the wonder-
story of the complexion, and tells it in all its many ramifications, and in a manner in which
it has never been told before. It is a mass of valuable suggestions. It points the way
to beauty—beauty unfailing, unmistakable and natural. Write, and enclose 3d. for postage,
for the booklet, to Mile. Rubinstein & Co., Dept. 20, Valaze Massage Institutes, 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney; 274 Collins St., Melbourne; 9 Brandon St., Wellington, N.Z.; &at Mayfair, London.
t
m
mmM
...
r '•'//'/
■
:
Mile. Helena Rubinstein.
Amusements
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
THE J. C. WILLIAMSON JACK and JILL
COMPANY in the Giant Pantomime,
JACK AND JILL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee arid Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
THE NEW MUSICAL ROMANCE,
THE KING OF CADONIA.
Interpreted by THE J. O. WILLIAMSON NEW COMIC
OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Clyde, Mf.ynell and John Gdnn.
SATURDAY NEXT, First Appearance in Sydney of
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
IN
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
The Production on exactly the same scale as in London.
Plan, Elvy’s. • Day Sale, White Rose.
yHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
s
YDNEY GLACIAR
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
U M.
Nightly at 8; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
BIJOU PICTURE PALACE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I,6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
OAPT. WINSTON’S PERFORMING SEALS.
THE WHEELERS, Australia’s Leading Comedy Cyclists.
MISS ATHMORE GREY, Vocaliste and Danseuse.
RONALD GEORGE, English Instrumentalist.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
CHARLES J. JOHNSON, Corner Man & Cake Walker.
VAUDE and VERNE, Clever Patter Comedians.
MR. 808-LLOYD. MISS ESSIE JENNINGS.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s. '
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
Amusements.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THREE SISTERS TRAPNELL, Acrobats.
FANNY HALLE, Ladder Expert.
TOM DAWSON, Comedian afldfDander.
TED KALMAN, Vocal Comedian.
BROWN and ROBINSON, Amusing'and Novel Act.
MERTON and RYDON, Comedv Artists.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Andkrson.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 30, FRIDAY, OCT. 1,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE MAN SHE LOVES.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2,
LAST SIX NIGHTS OF
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in tbe Successful QJ pg Y JACK.
Popular Prices —35., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents the
SUCCESSFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE CATCH of the SEASON.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 2,
Return of Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO. in
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
| C E SKATING.
KING OF WINTER SPORT.
Melbourne GLACIARJTJM,
NEXT SATURDAY,
LAST DAY and EVENING OF SEASON.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .: J. & N. TAIT.
J.&N.TAIT'S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
A Complete Change of Programme Weekly.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
lA# E S T’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PI CTUK.ES the b o e f s I Llj
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices—l/6, l/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. 1/-
Memory
Means Money.
Irv_^
atone
Ear
out
~the
Other
W. T. STEAD, writing from The Review of Reviews OFfice, London, to the
Secretary of the Pelman School of Memory, London, says : “Dear Sir, The improvement
that can be effected in the memory by taking pains is so immense and so little realised
that I consider Mr. Pelman one of the benefactors of the human race. I am, yours
truly, William T. Stead.”
A good memory begets confidence, confidence begets success, and
success in one form or another is what every right=thinking man hopes
for. It may be the making of money, the pursuit of fame, or the good of
others. Whatever it is, a good memory means more work and better
work, and is essential to success.
The PELMAN SYSTEM OF MEMORY TRAINING is the only natural
system. It is not a series of cumbersome artificial aids. It takes the natural memory
which everyone possesses and trains it to its highest point of efficiency; it cultivates the
powers of concentration to a remarkable degree, and entirely removes mind-wandering,
with its attendant ineffectiveness and waste of effort. It gives not only a letentive
memory, but a mind that is alert and quick to grasp and hold any point.
TAUGHT
BY POST.
The Pelman System of Memory Training is taught by post in five
interesting and simple lessons. Distance is no hindrance whatever to
success. Half-an-hour of your spare time daily for six weeks completes
the course, although you may take longer if you wish.
On our roll-call book are Doctors, Lawyers, Ministers of Religion, Teachers, Business
Men, Clerks, Mechanics, University Men, Students, Farmers, Graziers, Working Men—
in fact, members of every occupation followed in Australia and New Zealand.
Write at once for free booklet giving particulars of the Pelman System, with
Australian and New Zealand opinions thereon, to
THE SECRETARY,
PELMAN SCHOOL OF MEMORY,
3 StocK Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.
PELMAN SYSTEM
OF MEMORY TRAINING.


Walter Bradley & Co.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining 1 Boom Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
Christmas comes but once a year,
And when it comes—why then it’s here.
But this of colds we cannot say,
They come, they go, they often stay,
And merge into a nasty cough.
Which we have trouble to drive off.
Vain the attempt unless we procure
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will tv sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price— 3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
ahvays supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDQWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, 0.P.0., SYDNEY.
Why look old
before your time?
Too many women and girls
look old before their time—
Why? In nine cases out of
ten it is a matter of health.
Work, worry, confinement in-
doors and lack of exerise cause
the health to run down: then
faces become thin and pale;
lines appear; there are head-
aches, backaches and a con-
stant tired feeling.
Women and girls who feel
well, look well. Therefore
improve your health and you
will look better. It’s a fact
that hundreds of Australian
women and girls owe the
robust, snappy health they en-
joy to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They feel well and enjoy every
moment they live. These Pills
make new blood and tone the
whole system, imparting the
rosy look of health, bright eyes,
and firm step. If you feel out
of sorts try them.
Dr. Williams’
PINK PILLS.
are to be had of all dealers. Always say
Dr. Williams’ and you will get the genuine.
Don’t be talked into taking anything else.
Price ,2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d. or
from The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of
Australasia Ltd., Sydney.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort.made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
That recently-commented on shipment of
Chinese pork to England was bigger than it
looked, and, moreover, wasn’t all pork. It com-
prised, besides 4663 pig carcases, 8418 cases
poultry, 10,674 cases game, 21,048 cases eggs,
1345 carcases deer, and 12 quarters beef. The
pork about which so much was said is a compara-
tive trifle. When John takes to supplying Eng-
land With cheap hens and cheaper hen-fruit, the
Commonwealth’s export trade in these great
natural resources will get a shock.
Tasmania has the biggest average wheat
yield per acre of any State in the Commonwealth ;
yet so heavily does the big sheep walk sit on the
small island’s chest that last year it produced
only about half enough wheat even for its own
use. More disgraceful still, the grain production
has gone on shrinking and shrivelling, until even
the managing director of the Commercial Bank of
Tasmania has become alarmed, and told his
shareholders the other day that the crop had
declined from 2,303,000 bushels in 1898 to 644,000
bushels last year—a shrinkage which ought to con-
vince Parliament that it is about time to do some-
thing vigorous.
The Melbourne deputation which brought
up a great social matter before Premier Weary,
the other day, received a hint that it probably
hadn’t expected. The Fat people had been be-
wailing the terrible evil of race suicide, when
Murray smote them somewhat thoughtfully in
this fashion :
With regard to race suicide, the Chambers of Commerce
and Manufactures could do a great deal to help by giving
inducements to the young people to marry. They could
not blame the young men and women for not marrying
if they had not reasonable prospects of being able to
maintain a family.
So they could, but they don’t. And not one
parson or capitalist in the deputation seemed to
have given a glance at that aspect of the case.
STUCK FAST.
“Sr.”: Even the Tory isn’t hopeless.
The other day a Flinders-lane merchant, notori-
ous for his craving for black labor, was walking
just ahead of me. As he passed a building that
was under repair, a man on a scaffolding upset a
large bucket of whitewash, and in three seconds
that magnate of “the Lane” was converted into
the most earnest white Australian I ever saw. He
was so earnest that words failed him; but he
leaped in the air three times and then started to
run in the direction of Chinatown. He may have
been looking for a cab, or he may have intended
to kill all those Chinamen.
Irvine the Iceberg has discovered an
indirect way of admitting that a Protective tariff
builds up local industries without directly admit-
ting that it enriches the Commonwealth. Last
week he told his brethren in politics “he had
come to thb conclusion that as a country develops,
and its life becomes more complex, there is a
tendency to reduce the external trade per head of
the population.” Which was just a Freetrader’s
manner of saying that, as a country increases its
local production in manufactures, the individual
consumption of imported goods naturally dimin-
ishes, and an increasing proportion of each con-
sumer’s expenditure goes to support Australian
labor instead of supporting foreign labor. But
Irvine is incapable of expressing a plain fiscal
truth in a plain form of words.
Ex-Labor leader
J. C. Watson, by his
long-continued ab-
sence in South
Africa, has furn-
ished the Tory party
with a healthy brick
which it means to
throw for all it is
worth at election
time. Watson is
taking his last 12
months’ salary with-
out working for it,
and at the end of
thatperiod he means
to drop out of poli-
tics altogether. This
puts him in very
much the position
of an absentee capi-
talist the same
position that N. S.
Wales Chief Justice
Darley occupies.
Some Fusionists
are so inflated as
to declare that
Watson’s action
will cause the loss
of enough votes to
enable the Bruce
Smith party to gather
in the South Sydney
seat, but that yarn
looks too thin.
“ Son of a Gun ” writes :
“Jimmie Pannikin” refers proudly (B. 2/9/’O9) to the
fact that rifle clubs are increasing throughout his district,
and rightly gives a lot of the credit to the local school-
teachers. Unfortunately those who control the N.S.W.
Education Department consider the teachers’ interest in
rifle shooting quite needless. Recently many teachers
made application to have their Michaelmas holidays post-
poned for a fortnight in order that they might spend the
holiday time attending the N.R.A. meeting at Randvvick,
but they were informed that it couldn’t be allowed. Pro-
bably the Department considers that the children’s flag-
flapping and Dreadnought displays have rendered rifle
shooting superfluous.
Once again Melbourne’s unpatriotic Har-
bor Trust has declined to guarantee by a straight
vote that it will give effective preference to Com-
monwealth manufactures. The only excuse
offered was that, as the Trust had always given
such preference “ where practicable,” there was
no need to openly bind itself down to do so. The
saving clause, “where practicable,” is beautiful
when one remembers that the same Trust has
repeatedly gone abroad for machinery that could
have been easily made, and better made, in
the Commonwealth ; and is even accused of pay-
ing more for the foreign article for no visible
reason save that it is foreign.
As a result of Federation and the Federal
tariff the big wax match manufacturing firms of
Britain have decided to make matches in Aus-
tralia rather than pay the duty. The first factory
at Richmond (Melbourne) is nearing completion,
and is expected to be in full swing next year.
Seven hundred hands will be employed in this
one establishment—an eloquent ad vt. for Protec-
tion. The industry will present two notable
features. White or yellow phosphorus being pro-
hibited, the awful disease called “phossy jaw” will
be eliminated. And the habit of committing
suicide by drinking a solution of match heads will
die a natural death, instead of the misguided
drinker dying an unnatural one.
The most interesting feature of the new
Licensing Bill which has been making slow pro-
gress in Westralia relates to the extension of the
State pub idea. The Gwalia
experiment has been so much
of a success, financially and
otherwise, that in future,
whenever a district votes in
favor of more drinkeries—
which is the only way it "can
get them—the State has a
sort of three months’ option
to go into the business in
that district. Other people
may fire in applications, but
the Licensing Court has no
right to give them any en-
couragement until the Gov-
ernment has decided whether
it will control the beer-
pump in that locality or let
Private Enterprise lay in a
barrel or two and a barmaid.
But even then P. Enterprise
isn’t to be allowed to make a
start until he can produce a
petition signed by half the electors in the neigh-
borhood in which he proposes to establish his
drinkery.
Commonplace every-day sort of shipping
item :
Amongst the passengers by the steamer Airlie, which is
due here to-day, from Singapore, are 27'sailors. These
men formed portion of the crew of the steamer Indraveli,
which is now trading between China and New York, and
have been replaced by Chinese. A number of the men
are proceeding to Maoriland.
This steamer is one of a well-known line which
often trades to Australian ports, and it is British
owned. In Commonwealth waters it carried a
white crew, but as soon as they got the chance the
British owners discharged the British Jack Tar in
favor of the Chow. When the British merchant
finds the British sailorman too infrequent to suc-
cessfully maintain the claim of Britannia to rule
the seas, he will realise that his yellow, brown, or
black crews are dear enough. The colored crew
is one of the questions which the Empire must
bump against sooner or later, and it might as
well be sooner. Sometimes a bump in time saves
nine.
Anti-Sosb had a great chance the other
day when Harriman, the Yankee railroad million-
aire, died. It ought to have pointed out what a
fine thing it is for the producers and manufac-
turers of a country to pay so much extra for rail-
way freights and fares that a railway boss can die
worth about £40,000,000. But, as usual, it missed
its chance ; and instead it remarked through the
Sydney D.T.: —
Financial earthquakes of this kind must always threaten
the people of the United States in their railway invest-
ments, on account of that private ownership of railways
which has brought about such huge abuses from time to
time, and which has happily been avoided in Australia
by the adoption of the principle of State oivnership and
control. The wisdom of that policy is sharply illustrated,
etc., etc.
In short and as usual, Anti-Sosh is a splendid
thing—as long as it practises the very opposite to
its awn alleged principles.
THE WICKET-KEEPER.
Walter Carter, master undertaker, carrying’ on busi-
ness at Oxford-street, Waverley, said.... when 7 his son,
who was at present in England with the Australian
cricketers, was at home as shopman and manager
of the business. —Evidence given before the Undertakers’
Wages Board (N.S. W.).
Dave Gordon, the National Ass. selection
for the Senate in S. Australia, is leader of the
Register literary staff, and has written largely
on the Murray waters and the pastoral question.
He is a good fellow with some Liberal views, and
Heaven only knows how he has got into that stall.
The Farmers’Union is to pick the second candi-
date, and the two together, with the Liberal
Union thrown in, will choose a third ; and the
three are to run together against Senators
McGregor, Guthrie and Storey.
“Labor’s Own Gag ” was the heading of a
recent Sydney Telegraph article, in which that
paper jubilated for the manyth time on the alleged
fact that it is the gag which the Labor party in-
vented with which its own “ obstruction ” is now
being suppressed. The statement is up to the
Telegraph’s usual level of accuracy. In the
earlier days of Federation, Cook himself, Reid
(now practically vanished) and McMillan and
Pumpkin Smith (both disappeared) made obstruc-
tion a fine art, and the Telegraph bragged shame-
lessly about their capacity for blocking public
business. At last the Deakin-Isaacs Ministry
introduced certain standing orders to suppress
obstruction, and after nearly a fortnight’s debate
they were carried. Then Cook sank foaming into
his seat, and he and the Telegraph were un-
speakably shocked at the whole business. Now,
the gag which Deakin invented for the suppres-
sion of Cook is cheerfully used by Deakin and
Cook for the suppression of Fisher, and the Tory
papers which used to denounce Deakin for invent-
ing it now denounce Fisher and his party for in-
venting it. It is a mixed-up business.
Scullin, Labor candidate for Corangamite,
has dug up another illustration of the shameful
trickery practised in
connection with the
valuing of Victorian
country lands for muni-
cipal taxation. In Mere-
dith shire the Mount
Girth estate is valued
at £3 per acre capital
value, and pays less
than 2d. per acre per
annum in rates, while
farmers’ holdings right
alongside are valued at
£30 per acre, and pay
Is. 6d. per acre yearly
in rates. The infamy
of the present valua-
tion swindle is that it
not only encourages the
holding of idle lands,
but simultaneously dis-
courages small farms.
It would take a whole
lot of Federal pro-
gressive land-tax to put
the small farmer even
on a level with the big
land-grabber, and a lot
more to put the big
grabber at such a dis-
advantage that the pres-
sure would compel him
to cut up his huge area
and sell it in small lots.
Anglican' Arch-
deacon Hindley, of Mel-
bourne, who has just re-
turned from a visit to
the Cold Land, tells
this tale of the condi-
tion of things among
industrial and agricul-
tural workers there :—
THE BALANCERS.
ALF : “ Good golly!
What's that dreadful
noise in the wings?"
JOE: “Great Scott! That
must be Fisher bring-
ing up his electoral
machinery for the
next act."
There were men who came out with me on the Osterley,
sober, intelligent, thrifty men who had been two years
out of work.
“H.S.R.” : The fatal facility which
Alfred the Confused, or Obfuscated, shows in
throwing over his Australian sentiments reminds
me of the “ fatal facility ” of opossums for running
up sticks. This winter over a million opossums
will lose the number of their mess in N.S.W.
alone, nearly all through trying to run up an in-
clined stick placed against a tree in the belief that
it is easier to do that than it is to run up the
straight trunk. Affable Alfred is just a ’possum—
always on the look out for an inclined plane in
order to reach the top easily. (N.B. : The snare
is at Ballarat.)
E. Francis, re a matter of stoush
Last week in N.S.W. Assembly one hon. member called
another hon. member a blowfly. Whereupon the hon. blow-
fly member threatened to pull the first hon. member’s
nose. The threatened violence, of course, was averted.
Nose-pulling is a dangerously ineffective way of punishing
an opponent. It doesn’t disable him in any way, and it
has been known to so madden an otherwise poor fighter
that he rose and demolished the puller. I once had the
great good fortune to witness a row between a suburban
Bung, who was short and stout, and a beer traveller who
was tall and thin and very aristocratic. The beer traveller
was the aggrieved party, and he had got to the stage
when nothing but personal violence would appease his
cultured wrath. But he was of the old school, and he
informed the dancing and defiant Bung that common vul-
gar stoush was hateful to him. However, he offered
in lieu thereof to pull Bung’s nose for him —and
he did! His bony, claw-like hand shot out with the
rapidity of a snake’s tongue, and Bung rocked and stag-
gered and gasped as his nose was pulled almost off him.
The beer traveller was starting to deliver a solemn warn-
ing to his snorting victim never to insult him again,
when Bung lifted his right foot and kicked with all the
strength that was in him. The kick landed on the
middle of the long traveller’s vest, and he shut up like a
worn penknife and dropped to the pavement. Unfort'v.
nately for him, he hadn’t sense enough to stay down ; he
staggered up only to be felled with a clout on the ear.
Once more he scrambled up, and then 16 stone of Bung
leaped on his chest, bore him to the pavement and rolled
on him like an enraged elephant. Whenever one poli-
tician threatens to pull the door-knocker off another’s
countenance, I remember that disastrous performance,
and what the ruined aristocrat looked like when he was
dragged from beneath the mass of rolling publican.
THE BURIAL OF FREETRADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Obsequies performed by the congress of Chambers of
Commerce at Sydney, 16/9/’O9.
Would ye want a
Friend to urge
That we chant a
Dismal dirge ?
Half a column
Should it be
In a solemn,
Minor key ?
Saints, defend us 1
Someone cries
Do not send us
Elegies !
Spare us verse of
Such a size,
Though the Curse of
Cobden dies !
Hence this brief and
Terse report
Of a grief and
(Of a sort)
Fond affection
For a fad,
Each election
Grown more mad !
Sad to stab so !
Must be said !
Freetrade’s abso-
Lutely dead!
Cobden’s trash is
Forced to cease—
May his ashes
Rest in peace !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODOE.


The BECHSTEIN PIANOS
a
BECHSTEIN
are used by all the great Pianists of
the present day—no other Piano can
fully satisfy their requirements. Their
tone quality is perfect.
JOSEF HOFFMANN writes of them: —
"The Bechstem Piano possesses greater poetry of
tone and resembles the human voice more than
any other instrument. It is the realisation of my
ideal of a piano, and the only one on which I
can express all I feel/'
MADAME CARRENO writes:
" The Bechstein Piano is the ideal of perfection,
and. above all other instruments, responds to all
demands of an artist."
We stocK these magnificent Pianos
both in Grands and Uprights, and
invite you to call and inspect them,
or to write for full particulars.
Catalogues are free for the asKing.
W. H. PALING <&. CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
and at BRISBANE,
and NEWCASTLE.
SUMMER 1909 CATALOG
oi*
M
sis
TO
%/A
N
\
m
*** rf *~
r.
Sv
SH
®7
£
<*£>>
W
vets
t.
. \\
% 4%
\
w:
i
>.v
•Siil
Buckley' &. Nunn Ltd.
--The Greatest flail Order House in Australia
MELBOURNE, S.E., VICTORIA,
Manufacturers
& Direct
Suppliers
to the Public
Old
ORKNev
That’s it
The connoisseur can tell 0.0.
Whisky every time. Its fragrance,
its mellowness, its unique and
delicate flavour appeal at once
to the man with the discerning
palate.
And the water from which 0.0.
Whisky is made is so pure. It
springs from the Heather-Clad
Hills of Orkney, far removed from
human habitation. Money cannot
ouy a better whisky, because 0.0.
is perfection.
May we lend you our booklet “ Farthest
North. * together with name of .nearest
0.0. Agent?
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre Houie, Arundel Street. W.C..
Proprieters of
Stromnesa Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
yir
THE KEEN GUTTER!
That’s what we as practical hairdressers call
THE PLUM RAZOR
with its blade.of highest grade steel with the KEEN
CUTTING edge. The finest Razor on the market.
We send out the Plum Razor with a perfect shaving
edge, and keep it in order two years free of charge.
Price 10/6.
Post Free
anywhere.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office


PILES.-There is no more
painful complaint from which
than Piles. The most effective ci
BALM. Certain in every case,
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
distressing and
you can suffer
re is BALLAS
Obtainable from
A GREAT CORRECTIVE, NOT A
CURE-ALL.
We do not claim that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a cure-all, but as a corrective for all
complaints arising from
disorders of the blood, the
stomach, liver and kidneys
they are unexcelled. As,
however, nine out of every
ten ailments are due to
these causes, Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills fill a
want in every household.
Indeed, they are a house-
hold necessity, as effective
with the strong as with
the most delicate, and
compounded to meet the
requirements of every age
—from infancy to advanced
life.
“For some years,” says
Mrs. J. Rogers, Macauley
Street, Albury, “Isuffered
with severe headaches,
and I obtained no perma-
nent relief until I used
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, which a lady strongly recommended to me
for all general ailments. They did me a deal of
good, and ever since I have always kept a bottle
in the house. On the first indication of any indis-
position I take a pill or two with eminently satis-
factory results. My family always use them, and
in consequence enjoy good health. I can con-
scientiously recommend them, as I am always
doing, to all women for general ailments.”*
B?
directions
INDIAN ROOT
PiUS %
HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOHLIE and OOOLCABDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Wild excitement prevailed on the Parramatta
River (Sy’dney’) on Saturday’, where the finish of the race
between Pearce and Day for the championship of Aus-
tralia, £l.OO a side, and the “ William Beach Cup ” ended
with a somewhat stirring episode. Pearce, who had led
from the start, had, in spite of rough.water and head
wind, made the pace mighty swift; and 100yds. from
home, with Day just two lengths behind, he suddenly
went to pieces.’ He rocked and swayed, and beat the
water impotently’ with his sculls, but seemed to make no
progress. Day, also at the last gasp or thereabouts, sud-
denly looked round, and, seeing the champion in distress,
made a tremendous spurt. Like a flash he was alongside,
and the sight seemed to give Pearce new strength.
With a yell he drove his sweeps into the
water and lifted the boat slightly, a second
swing and it gained way, and then, with a last
supreme effort he drove it across the line half a length or
less to the good. It was a notable spectacle and drove
the spectators wild. Men who had never struggled with
anything worse than a pork pie wept bitterly, and
had to be prevented throwing themselves overboard.
The time (26min. lsec.) was exceedingly good under the
Circumstances, and proved that both scullers are any-
thing but short-distance men. Pearce is now' a superb
rower and so is Day, and next time Pearce and Arnst
meet anything, provided Pearce’s strength doesn’t leave
him as it did on Saturday, is possible. Even yet Arnst
speaks of the pushing Pearce gave him in their spectacu-
lar race. This is the third time Pearce has won the Beach
Cup, and he takes it home to adorn the sideboard per-
manently now.
* » * *
C. J. Glidden, the planet pilgrim who whizzes
round the wide earth in a motor-car made in England and
shod with Dunlop tyres, has been spreading himself on
the subject of roads. Glidden is an authority on roads,
for has he not visited 14,000 towns, cities and settlements,
and glode over the Arctic Circle in Norway', and seen
the Aurora Australis op Ward’s Parade,’in Invercargill,
Maoriland. Whenever he scoots over a road he makes a
note of its quality for future reference, and now' he has
summarised all roads under the headings of Excellent,
Good, Fair, Bad and Darned Bad. The Excellent
obtain in England, Cochin China, India, Java, the
Malay' States, Scotland, Wales and France. Good
roads exist in Austria, Bavaria, Belgium, Bohemia,
Ceylon, Denmark, Germany, Hawaii, Holland, Hong Kong
Italy, Switzerland and Tasmania. Fair ones are the rule
in the Fiji Isles, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Maoriland and
Sweden. Bad onesin Burmah, Egypt and Spain. Darned
bad in Annam, China and Mexico. What about Aus-
tralia? Well, Glidden has a special class in which the
roads vary from Good to Bad and the dead finish, and
here Australia stands in with, above all places, Syria and
the United States. This is about the nastiest thing so
far said of Australia, and the worst of it is that it is pro-
bably just. The best long run is the Grand Trunk Road
of India, from the frontier of Afghanistan to Calcutta,
w'ith a branch from Aligarh to Bombay, 2300 miles long,
broad and level nearly the whole distance. There’s a run
for a motorist. This awful comparison with the roads of
Syria must be attended to, however.
Saturday, October 2, will see the running of the
great Warrnambool-Melbourne road race—the greatest
cycle contest on earth. It was first promoted by the
Dunlop Rubber Co. in 1895 ; and barring two breaks, in
1899 and 1900, it has been run annually’ ever since. This
year’s entry closed compulsorily with 546 applicants—all
struggling for a first prize, of £3O and a bronze and
enamel medal for the rank and file. Of course there are
other prizes donated by “ the trade,” and these are caus-
ing the promoters meat for serious mental chewing.
Private enterprise is an immodest thing, and when it
finds other firms calmly pasting their advertisements on
its race, the Dunlop Co. is beginning to wonder if the
time hasn’t come to kick. Next year will probably
see Draconian proceedings taken to biff this sort
of thing right out. The arrangements for the race are
well forward, and the plan of operations is long since
complete. As there will certainly be about 350 starters,
there will be erected at the starting point barriers divided
off into pens, and into these pens will be drafted the
various time groups in their proper order. The groups
w'ill come along automatically' to the starting line. The
long markers will be sent off about 6a.m., and the scratch
ones about 7 o’clock. PathO Frires will take pictures
showing the race at picturesque spots along the route;
the feeding, the clocking arrangements, and finally the
finish at the Haymarket, Melbourne. The films will be
shown throughout the world, and Australia will be much
advertised thereby. It is a great race, and it is going to
be duly cracked up.
• * * *
It’s a sad world for the cyclist and motor fiend
just at present, on account of the upward bound of
rubber in the financial department. Rubber bounds all
right in a general way, but when rubber prices bound
six times higher than the stuff itself that is an unbounded
sort of bound. A few months back the best Para cost less
than £5OO per ton. To-day it is selling for £950 per ton,
with plantation rubber running close up. The Dunlop
Co. advises that till present stocks run out the,price of
its tyres will not be raised ; but once the new
rubber comes into the factory, up the figure vyill go —like
the balloon. This infernal rise is not: wholly due to
scarcity, but rather to an artificial forcing up of the price
as the result of frenzied attempts to corner the supply.
Naturally' the boom in price has brought public attention
to the commodity, and during July no less than 23 rubber
plantation companies were floated in England; With a
total capitalisation of £1,870,880. Also, the rise has
brought an increased number of German chemists into the
quest of how to make synthetic rubber on a commercial
basis. The secret of hiow to make the stuff is now an
open one ; the only question is how to make it at a sel-
ling price.
■* * # *
The Yankee is playing up again, and is now
threatening to burst on the horizon in the shape of a new
and gigantic motor-car Trust. The proposal is to combine
the whole of the car firms of the States into one
huge concern and make all the cars of a standard type, so
that all similar parts in the various makes shall be inter-
changeable. The jdea is that by' combination the \york-
ing expenses can be reduced, and the output increased to
such an extent that there will be a considerable surplus left
over with which to invade Britain and kill the British car ,
industry. Then, Of course, the “ Britisher ” will be made
to pay for the cost of killing his industry. During
the campaign it is confidently expected that cars will be
sold at two for a dollar, or something like that. An.y-
how, the British have taken the alarm and are talking
about fixing up a little combine of their own to meet the
invasion when it comes.
* * * »
W. McDonald’s half-mile cycle-paced recoffl
of 42see. got blown out last week, when A. J. Davies
chipped half a second off it at Brisbane Cricket Ground.
Half a second is a very brief span of time, but it is long
enough to hang a record on.
• • * #
The Y.R.G. October meeting (which used to
happen in September) falls due this year on A.J.C. Derby'
day', and what time students of “ form” are learning their
bitter lessons at Rand"ick, the Victorian stables will be
putting some of the best of their little lot of Cup horses
into evidence at Flemington. Thus far Victoria looks to
have only a poor chance of keeping the fattest of its
Spring handicap stakes in the State, or of capturing any
of the big events at Randwick. Nevertheless, the V.R.C.
racing next Saturday should be interesting even if it only
serves to get a number of local candidates off the minds
of local punters. Nushka, Alawa, Knox, Mindful, Mother
Goose, Seddon, Aberdeen, Pendil, Post Town and Pink
’Un are among the entrants for the October Stakes and
the Spring Handicap. Some of these—notably Mindful,
Alawa, Mother Goose and Seddon—are well treated in the
Caulfield Cup weights, and if any of them shape very
promisingly, they will loom pretty prominently in the
unpublished betting. But meanwhile it looks as though
the two Cups and the V.R.C. Derby and the principal
w.f.a. races must fall to horses that will be far away from
Flemington on the 2nd of October.
* * ■*- *
A glance through the Maoriland racing club’s
programmes for 1909-10 reveals interesting evidence of
the virtue of the totalisator in its relation to racing
stakes apart from its benefit to the charities. The popu-
lation of Maoriland is considerably' less than the combined
populations of Sy'dney and Melbourne, but the six racing
•clubs, thanks to the tote, distribute about £93,000 in
stakes during the y'ear. There are only 52 racing days in
all, each programme being made up of seven or eight
events, instead of five,or six as in Australia. Entrance
fees and forfeits are comparatively less than in Australia—
i.e., the proportion of owners’ sweepstakes to added
money is less. Yet the Canterbury' Jockey Club’s distri-
bution for the four days of its Metropolitan meeting is
£15,540.
» • ♦ *
Broken Hill Racing Club is “up against it.”
Owing to some unpleasantness it has been decided not to
supply the club with beer made by' union hands, and a
racecourse at a place like Broken Hill without beer is a
hideous thing to contemplate. As unionists will not
drink non-union beer, the outlook is especially ghastly.
• * * •
“Wang” : I never knew there were so many
different ways of saying the same thing till I began to
study the training notes in the daily' papers. The horses,
presumably, galloped over a certain distance ; but this is
the way the sporting scribe relates the various per-
formances. Such and such “ put past ” and another “got
over ” a certain distance, then numerous other gee-gees
“moved usefully,” “went” so many furlongs, “went
down” five furlongs or so, “covered,” “did,” “got,”
“ran,” “contributed,” “accounted for,” “rattled off,”
“ cleared,” “ completed the circle,” “ did useful work,”
“ accomplished,” “ bowled over,” “ encompassed,” “ des-
patched, ’ “moved gently,” “dashed off,” “occupied,”
“ran down,” “ registered,” “recorded,” “strode over,”
“clocked the mile,” “got to the end,” “encircled,”
“ made its way over,” “ set,” “ strode along over,” “nego-
tiated,” “ was interested in,” “ traversed,” “ covered ” or
“ popped over,” etc. The same sort of stuff applies to foot-
ball also, as thus : Jones “ had a shot for goal ” or “ a try
for the sixer.” He “ turned it between the sticks,” “sent it
through,” “added to his total,” “worked it through,”
“gained the sixer,” “safely negotiated,” “snapped the
big point,” “passed the pudding through,” “raised the
two flags,” “ booted the oval through,” “registered a
goal,” “ placed a goal to his credit,” “ hoisted one to his
account,” “got an easy' one,” “snapshotted,” “caused
.six points to go up on the scoring board,” “captured,”
“notched,” “secured,” “shot the wind bag through,”
“ sent it sailing between the uprights,” “ helped himself
to half a dozen,” “found the opening,” “drove it be-
tween the big sticks,” “gained the verdict,” and so on.
It is dreary to the reader ; but not half so much so as it is
to the writer who has to find the new phrases to avoid a
monotony that would kill his occupation stone dead. If
there is one class of reporter who earns his bread by the
sweat of his brain, it is the horse-scribe who has to find
559 ways of varying the verb “ to run.”
* * * *
Thereisawhi sper that the Australian footballers
in Sydney are likely by nextseasori to havea ground of their
own on which at least two matches can be played every
Saturday', and to which the League can charge for admis-
sion. Till something like this is done there will be no
health in the Australian Rules game in Sydney. And yet
there is no reason why the game should not boom. It is
practically the only all-Australian form of football, and it
is the only division that runs a championship of the con-
tinent. A big idea like that is worth many shekels if it
is properly worked up, but at present it is'not. An ob-
scure par in a daily paper last Saturday mentioned that
.the West Adelaide Club, premier of South Australia, had
despatched its team to Melbourne and Sydney to play
for the championship of the Commonwealth. This is not
as it should be by a jugful. The championship of all
Australia should be a thing to be flared over in big head-
lines, and to be watched with anxiety and interest by
thousands. At the present time the club premierships
in Melbourne and Sydney are thought and talked of
infinitely more ; whereas they should be mere episodes—
affairs of outposts, leading up to the grand struggle for
the top-dogship of a whole continent. The Australian
game has its chance ; but if this fine large idea is not
worked up better, British Associat ion w ill one day eclipse
it. The “Soccer ” game is spreading, And already some
of the Soccer enthusiasts are talking of an Australasian
premiership.
* * * *
West’s progress was erratic. All through the
winter the club seemed unable to repeat the wonderful
run of the previous year, and Norwood, the old-time
champion team, was also clean out of it, Port Adelaide
heading the list. Then came the finals, and things began
to happen. Norwood had a resurrection, and, on the
strength of awful damage done to West Adelaide, got
into the final. Having got in, it dealt out disaster to
Port Adelaide, and then took worse damage from the same
old West. Last of all, Port, being ahead on the season,
challenged West, and was in due time comfortably
defeated. Hence the excursion abovementioned.
* • * •
The Australian Rules crowd put up a very lively
scrap at Sydney Cricket Ground, and call d it “a match
between Y.M.C.A. and Newtown.” Exactly what it
would call a rough-and-tumble would be hard to imagine
after viewing the performance of the toughs and bullies
who compose so large a proportion of the Newtown Club.
But, as usual, the gang that played the man went down
before the team that played the ball, and Newtown was
donkey-licked by 50 to 39. North Sydney simply crushed
Paddington by 70 points to 46 ; so next Saturday, at the
Agricultural Ground, North Sydney and the Good Young
Men will play off the final, which will be a fine exhibition
of the game.
The toughs of the Newtown Club have brought
things to an impossible pass. The smallest men in the
opposing team were deliberately picked out for slugging
and kicking, and only the discipline of the Y.M.C.A.
prevented a general riot. The face of one Y.M.C.A.
man was so badly smashed that he staggered off covered
with blood, and the whole game was a disgraceful exhibi-
tion of dirty tactics and foul language on the part
of a section of the Newtowners. Either the League
must smash-the Newtown gang, or it will kill the game.
No ground where this assembly of toughs rages loose is a
fit place to take any woman to. There are some clean
players in the Newtown club—even Sodom had a Lot—
but it is time they' got out. The very fact that such a
state of affairs has come to pass proves that the League
badly' requires a new committee. Only rotten manage-
ment can have prevented the Newtown club being dis-
qualified for riotous conduct and dirty language.
f * ■* *
The “ Soccer ” competition for the Gardiner
Cup ended in a boil-over at Epping (Sydney) on Saturday
last, when Pyrmont and Adamstown met to replay the
final that had resulted in a draw the previous Saturday.
Pyrmont held possession of the Cup from last year, and
in spite of the splendid showing by Adamstown the pre-
vious w'eek, it was hard to persuade anyone that the
■orthern team had a chance against the Rawson Cup cham-
pion club. Pyrmont, winning the toss, deliberately'
chose to play against the wind, on the ground that it
would require its assistance more in the second spell than
the first. Which was true, but not in the way intended.
For a well-sustained, hard-pressed attack Adamstown’s
first spell would be hard to beat. Pyrmont Occasionally
cleared and made attacks on the Adamstown net; but
most of the time the play’ raged in Pyrmont’s back.yard,
and amazed the veteran team very much indeed. An in-
cessant bombardment of the Pyrmont goal brought out
all the tricks that the veterans knew in the saving way,
and wondrous feats of agility were performed. But one
shot got through, and the first half ended with Adams-
- town leading by one to nil. With the wind behind it,
Pyrmont in the second half started out to make up that
point and a few more, and with a fine sweep came down
to the Adamstown line. Sent back, the Pyrmont
goal was again threatened, till the veterans, work-
ing like machines, inch by inch forced the leather
back to Adamstown territory. There Pyrmont simply
showered shots at the goal, but they were all
blocked or fisted out till with a splendid effort Adams-
town broke away, and carrying it along at the toe, swept
right down the field, over the struggling Pyrmonters,
right into goal. This happening demoralised Pyrmont, so
that it lost its head and its combination, and generally ran
wild. Each man tried to play Adamstown on his in-
dividual own, but the Northern team kept cool, and met
rough play with combined violence till a penalty kick gave
it another shot at goal, and the score was lifted to three to
nil. It was the last stroke. The whistle sounded, and the
mightiest “ Soccer” team Australia has produced had
gone down before, and been stamped flat by, a country
club.
* » * •
Judging by the published accounts, the N.S.W.
Rugby League obligingly butchered itself to give the
Wallabies a financial picnic. In answer to questions, the
League officially announced that the gross takings for the
four matches were £1738 17s. Ground exes., £3B ; net
gate, £1700.175., all placed to the private account of J.
Joynton Smith, Esq. The League incurred £ll7 of
expenses in connection with the match. Summed up,
the position, as far as the League is concerned, is that it
has thrown away £350 of ground rent to which it was
entitled, and has to put its hand in its pocket for another
£ll7 out-of-pocket exes., making a total loss of £467. So
far, South Sydney Hospital seems to have got nothing ;
and as far as can be gathered from the meagre figures
supplied, the only people who have done well out of the
deal are the members of the'Wallabies team. Even the
unfortunate Kangaroos appear to be left in the mud, and
the whole business is general curse and recrimination.
* * * *
Ideal weather and the prospect of a tremendous
concussion drew 42,418 ordinary Victorians and 32 con-
stables to the Metropolitan Cricket Ground last Saturday,
when South Melb. and Carlton were to decide who was
boss. That is to say, South would decide if it won, but if
Carlton won South had a second chance, through being on
top at the end of the first round. The collision was a mighty
episode, and that the ambulance wasn’t needed was
no fault of the players, but it may be stated at once that
the football Wasn’t of the class one expects in finals.
Yet it came in flashes. There were brilliant spots when the
Southerners, wonderfully quick for such big men, by
clean handling, swift and accurate passing and sure
marking, gained hard won points ; but all through the
encounter the Carltons seemed to give more attention to
the ball than the men, and though they hadn’t the verve
or quite the skill of their opponents, that habit stood
to them better in the end. That “Skinner’s hire-
lings” can play is undoubted, but thev won’t. They
were frequently penalised and repeatedly cautioned,
but it made little difference. The needless push,
the dirty trip, and the clenched fist were
far too much in evidence —even South’s captain so far
forgot himself as to let drive at an opponent who was
running with the ball. For one unpleasant and useless
caper of theirs there seems to be no adequate penalty—
the habit of chasing an opponent who is running with the
ball and then, directly he has taken his kick, pushing
him violently to earth. The umpire can award a free
kick, but that mostly penalises the victim in that it
allows the others time to get back. That is a trick that
the Carltons mostly eschewed ; and they also showed
South a bright example, in pleasingeonf rastto the latter’s
play against ’Wood the previous week, by wasting no
time in the last quarter W'hen, with three goals
in hand, time was the last thing they wanted.
Altogether, it wasn’t a pleasant or a promising game, and
only strict and determined umpiring saved it front becom-
ing a common brawl. That the official made mistakes is
undoubted, but they weren’t many; that he heavily
penalised South is also true, but South invited and
deserved it. The only satisfactory thing about the col-
lision is that the side that played the cleaner and fairer
game won —by 10 goals 9 behinds to South’s 7 goals
5 behinds. The two meet next Saturday in the “ grand
final,” when, if South mends its manners and plays the
ball instead of the men, it will have a decent show of
winning. If not, it had better quit football and go in for
straight-out pushism.
* * * *
The 20,000 who visited the North Melbourne
sponge, late glue-pot, for the Ass. grand final got a
pleasing and joyous afternoon’s sport for the £3OO they
“parted.” F’ran, by virtue of its leading position in
the first round, was endeavoring to snatch Brunswick’s
hard-won “ final ” honors from it; ahd though the play
was as keen,and the struggle as hearty as in the League
game, both teams remembered that they were supposed
to be playing football, and carried |bn accdrdingly. Also
the absence of ’Wick’s captain reminded them that
the Ass. had, during the week, passed out for two
years the Essendon player who had plugged him, and
two years is a Considerable space in a football life.
The P’ran 17 were in a thoughtful mood, induced chiefly
by the absence of the four recently-acquired “stars”
whom the committee had sacked because of their sus-
piciously casual play in the semi-final; but ’Wick was the
same happy organisation as of yore. It lost the toss and
the wind, and when the board showed P’ran 26 points to
’Wick’s one at the first change, things didn’t look too
healthy ; but by half-time the deficit was reduced some-
what. P’ran’s sudden rushes had slowed down a bit, and
the Magpies’systematic play began to get on its nerves.
The trading suburb held a lead to three-quarter time—s 2
poitits to 40 then —but the last quarter found the Two Blues
tired and done, helpless to check the steady, methodical
play that piled up the points, and too worn to put up the
few swift rushes that might have stormed the goal and
carried victory. When the bell finally rang out the Ass.
season of 1909, Brunswick, the young club that
eschewed bought stars and relied on careful, systematic
play, had beaten P’ran by 72 points to 55, and gained its
first premiership. And P’ran, like Essendon, had learnt
by bitter experience that, though football stars can be
hired by cash or billets, they cannot be held that way.
The’bailer who can be bought to play for any club can
n earl j' always be bought to play against it, and though he
mostly comes down bump, he brings the club down too.
* * » *
Northern Union Clubs in England continue to
hold out the gilded hand of friendship to crack Australian
players. Last week J. Stuntz and D. Brown left for Eng-
land to wallow' on the large remunerative bed of profes-
sionalism.
* * * *
It is proposed to hold an exhibition in aviation
in Prince Alfred Park, Sydney, on October 26, at which
deeds that will stagger humanity will be done before the
eyes of all Israel. Man-lifting kites will be let loose with
human victims attached to them, and aeroplanes will go
up and come down, while races will be held between
model fly ships of all sorts, sizes and descriptions. Some
of the freaks that are expected to make a first appear-
ance will be adopted by the Gold Tea Brigade for the
purpose of convincing the man w'ho has had two whiskies
that he has jimjams in the most virulent form.
• * * *
The Victorian Cricket Association’s proposal to
hire a ground in Melbourne for big cricket has brought
from the M.G.C. ari offer to let its ground at 5 per cent, of
the gross takings, which offer theV.C. A. has enthusiasti-
cally' rejected. The offer looks reasonable, but it is the
M.C.O. deadheads that spoil the scheme. Thus, during
the first match, Victoria v. the last English XI., 19,442
persons paid for admission, while 20,808 entered on mem-
bers’ tickets ; moreover most of the 19,442 paid one
shilling to stand in the outer ground, while the 20,808 sat at
ease in the luxury of the reserves. And on top of that
the club has just admitted 500 new members, which
means a possible 1500 new- admissions. The point the
M.G.C. barrackers have missed is this: Either ’Roy,
Carlton or South ground will afford as good accommoda-
tion to outsiders as the M.C.C., and their stands will
hold almost as many' as the paying stands at the big
ground ; but there will be no room for the 12,000 dead-
heads. This will be unfortunate for the deadheads, but
the V.C.A. gets not one penny from them, so neither the
association nor the game will lose by their absence.
Clem Hill, who was supposed to have left off
cricket for good, has agreed to play again, and will cap-
tain the Sturts (S. Aus.) this season.
Sydney grade cricket commences on Saturday
next, with 13 teams battling in the first division, which
means that every Saturday will see one team with a bye.
Whether the bye system is a good one is hard to say ; but,
anyhow, it will not interfere with the ordered progress of
the globe around the sun.
Sydney Cricket Ground Trust is raging round
after the dollars in an alarming style. The new idea is t°
admit members of recognised clubs, “approved by the
Trustees,” at a reduced fee of £2 2s. Evidently the time
will come when the C.G. will have no room for the in-
dividual who gains admission by the payment of the
humble robert at the gate. The whole blessed place vvill
be occupied by “ members” and “specials approved of by
the Trustees.”
* * » *
Rumored that inducements are being held out to
Warren Bardsley to induce him to settle in England and
take up a cricketing life. Britain has got the importing
disease badly, and though opposition is being raised to
the practice of “ buying ” athletes from overseas it looks
as though in the near future England’s representative
athletes will represent almost every quarter of the earth
save and except the Bri ish Isles.
* * * *
One of Sydney’s “floating baths” went down
in the briny deep the other day without a grunt of
warning. Foul play was suspected ; but so far no arrests
have been made. The incident suggests that strict and
frequent examination of these structures is badly wanted
in the interests of public safety. The bath sank
just after being towed into position, so nobody was any
the worse physically. But things might have been much
different had it postponed the sinking till a gala day.
The Australasian Lawn Tennis Association has
notified the United States that if it is after the Davis Cup
its representatives will require to reach Double Bay,
Sydney, by November 26. Norman Brookes will swing
his deft racquet in the interests of the Kangaroo.
* • * •
The progress of Andy Wood, N.S.W. cross-
country champion: In the N.S.W. Marathon h« ran
second, and then striking form he bolted with the
Queensland Marathon and the Ten and Five Miles Cross
Country Championships of his State. His next swoop
will be on the Victorian Marathon, in October; and then,
if the needful is forthcoming, he will hie him away to
Athens for the immortal Olympian Games.
* * * *
The Mclntosh, of Sydney, is still swimming
around the United States angling for the control of the
Jeffries-Johnson scrap. He has about as much chance of
getting the control of the battle between the Goths and
the Huns at Chalons. As Jeffries said, the fight will cer-
tainly come off unless one of them dies first. Writer’s
opinion is that they will both die first; and Johnsing evi-
dently thinks so too, as he offered to bet 10*000 dollars
that Jeffries would never scrap with him. How
he would prove his claim he didn’t explain, for Jeffries
might fight him in the next world. The probable truth
of the matter is that neither of the brutes is anxious
to scrap. All they want is to remain in the limelight and
get fat fees for walking on the boards. Johnson’s recent
Canadian trip cost him a small heap of money, as his
entry into every town was signalised by a prosecution for
furious driving of his motor-car. Some of these days he
will run over a white child, and then an angry parent will
slay Johnson ; and Jeffries will rise up and weep publicly
that Johnson did it on purpose to escape the awful lick-
ing he had in pickle for the deceased.
“ Snell ” : Ballarat produces something besides
South-street songsters and rampant reciters ; it turns
out some excellent amateur pugs. A brace of these who
distinguished themselves in the recent Victorian A.A.A.
championship competitions, Oopperwaite and Duffy, got
at each other in Her Majesty’s Theatre, Ballarat, one
night recently, to try and discover in the course of 20
rounds which Was the better man. Differences on this
point had racked Ballarat from east to west, and were
causing violations of his Majesty’s peace; consequently
the fight was in some measure for the public weal. It had
many professional features, but I have not heard what
became of the “gate.” The boys started with feverish
energy. For five or six rounds nobody was a ha’porth
the worse. Then Duffy began to lose ground, and Oop-
perwaite swiped him with a right that prostrated him
several times. Duffy was whipped in the 14th chapter of
the Book of Stoush, but the gong banged and his suite
fished him out of the ring and brightened him up a bit.
It was all to no purpose, however, as he collapsed in the
middle of the next verse. The winner is a lad who should
make something of a dint if he means to embrace the
profession.


I
enS5
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS!
A complete practical Booklet of the newest ideas
and improvements in Cycle Parts and Accessories.
130 Pages (well illustrated) of valuable descriptions and information
of EVERYTHING a Cyclist or Motor Cyclist needs.
WRITE FOR B. & B.’s NEW FREE CYCLE BOOKLET.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT * BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and
Castlereagh Street, S/J.iay,
THE MOUSTACHE YOU ENVY
and find so difficult to grow, is easily obtained by using one jar of
CAPILLARINE, Price 10/6, post free.
Just rub a little on each night, and we guarantee a full, handsome
Moustache within a few months.
Craig: & Aitken, 65 4 George St., SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
s
A GENEROUS OFFER
To Prove that
Harlene Hair Drill grows hair.
A MILLION FREE OUTFITS to be DISTRIBUTED.
If you would like to make your hair grow in healthy and beautiful
profusion, you can receive free for the mere asking a complete "Harlem*
Hair Drill” outfit. ™
Let any woman conjure up the vision of how much younger and how much
more attractive she would be if her hair was as it was, say, five to ten or fifteen
years back,
Let any man similarly summon before his mind’s eye the picture of the differ-
ence that his nair as it was five to fifteen years previous would make to him to-dav
And it is this great difference that it is possible to restore. No woman’s-or manV-
hair is to-day what it might- what it cak-Iw, unless it has had the natural and
physiological cultivating and beautifying benefit of “ Harlene Hair Drill ” 1 d
promise* 1 ' UBiDg " Harlene ” yoa win be surprised—agreeably surprised. Mind, this we
Your hair will stop falling out by the end of the week.
The scalp will feel "alive" instead of dead, hot. hard, scurf v
damp, or dry. *
Note.—All the accessories required will be sent yon without a penny cost. It co«ts
threepence to send you the package, and it is suggested that you do Messrs. Edwards
the courtesy of sending threepence for postage or carriage mentioned on the following
Coupon (of which you can send a copy if you would rather not cut it from vour caper) S
nf »HerW S H nSn » flarle, i? wherewith to continne the practice and benefits
°Ji»a may be obtained of all chemists and stores throughout
the woi ld at is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d. per bottle, or sent .direct and post paid on
receipt of postal order. * v
COUPON for Free Trial Outfit.
To Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE CO.,
95 and 96, High Holborn, London, England.
Sirs,—l wish to try "Harlene Hair Drill ” for one week in accordance
with your offer to readers of this paper, and shall be glad if
you will send me the “Harlene Hair-Drill’’ Outfit, with in-
structions, free of charge.
I enclose 3d. stamps for postage to any part of the world.
Name
Address
greasy, sticky,
Missing Friends.
TOMHOLT or HOLT or WILSON. Frances
Amelia, nee HENDERSON or DEANE,
formerly residing Old South Head Road,
Waverley, communicate with undersigned.
Money awaiting you. If dead, information or
evidence of death will be paid for.
McLACHLAN & MURRAY, Solicitors,
E. S. & A. Bank Building,
King and George Streets, Sydney.
ESTATE OP JAMES WARD.
JAMES WARD, who was born at Letterkenny, Donegal,
Ireland, and who emigrated to Australia about fifty
or sixty years ago, is believed to have died in
Australia a few years ago. He left certain estate in
Scotland, Which is claimed by his surviving brothers.
Any.children or grandchildren or testamentary legatees
of the said James Ward, in Australia or elsewhere, are
requested to intimate their claims to the subscribers by
the 31st December, 1909, after which date the said estate
will be distributed.
Persons having information as to any estate or property
in Australia left by the said James Ward at his death
might kindly communicate their knowledge to the sub-
GORDON & CO., Solicitors,
38 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh, Scotland.
HEIRS WANTED—MacLEAN.
THE children or grandchildren of WILLIAM
MacLEAN and Mrs, JEAN MacLEOD
or MacLEAN, his wife, who about the year
1870 were resident at Seven Oaks, Kempsey,
near Sydney, are requested to communicate
with the subscribers.
GORDON & CO., Solicitors,
38 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh, Scotland.
IF the children of the late JAMES EDWARD
COSTELLO will communicate with the
undersigned they may hear something to their
advantage.
MACDONNELL, HENCHMAN & HANNAM,
Solicitors,
Cairns, N.Q.
LEAHY, MICHAEL, son of John Leahy and
Bridget Leahy, of Preston, Victoria, will
learn of something to his pecuniary advantage by
communicating with Williams & Matthews,
Solicitors, 89 Queen Street, Melbourne. If not
heard from within 28 days from this date, applica-
tion will be made to the Supreme Court of Victoria
for administration of his estate as if dead.
If You Need
Massage, Vibratory Massage, Elec-
tric Light or Electric Bath High-
Frequency Current, or Physical Culture, come to the
MASSAGE HYDRO-ELECTRIC ND PHYSICAL
CULTURE INSTITUTE,
where we rapidly heal such complaints as Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Insomnia (Sleepless-
ness), Liver and Kidney Complaints, Indigestion,
Constipation, Stoutnessand Nervous Weakness, also
Sprains, etc. We employ Nurses for Lady Patients.
Note Address: Eugradine Chambers, 15 &17 Eliza-
beth St., negr Hunter St.-, Sydney. ’.Phone, City 828.
Patients are also treated at their own homes.
IN ANY CAR
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT
Gives Best Results
Because of its CONSISTENT Quality.
with 4 months
Medic«t«r. ilzi
3i inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining-
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invadgs the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach; causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Plead-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
X
5V
V
V
*
Jv
Av
<o
■iP'w Thx
wmki cock
■f Table
IS THE
fMONARCH
• • of •
Billiard
Tables.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
... Limited ..
Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
The other day N.S.W. Premier Wade sent
oil Oakes, the Hon. Minister, to let a Cold Tea
conference know that this Ministry is a Ministry
of good men ; and to prove it the ambassador
talked this depressing stodge :
If the amount spent in drink in the State of New South
Wales last year had been devoted to old-age pensions,
each of the pensioners in the State might have received £5
per week, instead of 10s. per week.
Why don’t these cheerless fellows give us a
change? Every other man ,at this conference
wore a long coat with two buttons at the back.
There was a shocking waste of cloth—the man
would have been just as warm and just as well
covered if, instead of having tails dangling half-
way down his legs and getting in the way when he
wanted to sit down, the tailor* had sheared the
stuff off at the hips. Moreover, besides the
appalling waste of two buttons in the small of the
back, there are a couple of utterly useless ones on
each sleeve and a row down the front that are
never used. If people would only saw their coats
off at the hips and do without buttons that are no
good for anything, and leave off wearing neckties
which are no good for warmth and can’t be eaten
with any comfort, and likewise abolish starch
(which is simply a weariness of the flesh and a
cause of bad language in summer), this paper bal-
culates that another £1 a week could be added to
the old-age pensions. In fact, there are enough
habits that could be abolished to bring up the old-
age pensions to at least £l5 a week. But nobody
suggests this rubbish : it is left for the Cold Tea
people to hand out their own special branch of
the stodge on every conceivable occasion, and then
wait for the crowd to applaud thfe wonderfully
clever idea.
Adelaide is mildly excited over a shooting
case. The facts are not in dispute. A station
manager, down for “ the show,” engaged a
waggonette about midnight to drive the nine
miles to Brighton., The cabman had a casual
friend with him, and the three rode together on
the box, and there were drinks —probably several
drinks. On the way they talked about pigeon-
shooting, and at the journey’s end the fare went
in to get his gun to show his new acquaintances.
Two minutes later there was a dying cabman on
the ground, and when the others realised that
the fallen man was not larking they went for
the distant police. Coroner Ramsay Smith
heard the story—without a jury—and remarked
that the thing was very unfortunate, but still it
was accidental, and there was an end of it. The
public, however, seems to think otherwise, the
suggestion being that when even the best of good
fellows gratuitously brings loaded firearms into a
midnight discussion, with fatal results, a jury
ought to have a chance of talking things oyer.
Also there are people who think Ramsay Smith
too consistently autocratic, and belated questions
are being asked about the matter in Parliament.
V
,
' w
, V‘
*****
%
UneQualled for
WEAR. RELIABILITY&SPEED
The Best for Australasian Roads.


The Store of Good Values.
j-vOR many years we have combined lowness of price with that of excellent quality. Also, our system of
FREE CARRIAGE on any of these articles is a very big advantage to you. W e have absolutely the
Finest and Largest Display of* Jewellery and Silver-plate in Australasia, and, being direct importers,
we can offer you far better value than you'll get elsewhere. Write for a Copy of our large 304-page
Catalogue, sent Post Free to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure
Silver-plated, Hand-engraved,
15/6-
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-plated o
Silver, Highly Burnished, Detachable
65/ -
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/,
n Nickel
Handle,
60/.
■
\jjyaumcUrtA.
roNUON-.SYOHET
ur-z&
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON AND BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Engraved,
1
1 Butter and 1 Jam, or pair of Butter Knives, 15/6
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Richly Embosserl and Orna-
mented, Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined,
Size, 4J x 2^.
J 5/0
Pierced Design, 12/6.
Illlllllllll!
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco-
covered, Pure Silver-plated,
Screw Top.
15/6 , ■ .
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
WAIST-BELT BUCKLE, Floral Design, Finest English
Enamel, Richly Pierced, Solid Metal Back,
Gilt Finished,
3/6- ,
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Day
Dream Design, Solid
Silver, Finest Quality
Bristles,
35/
Mirror to Match, £3.
SUGAR liOWij, Polished Eng-
lish Oak, Pure Silver-plated
Mounts, China Lining,
15/-
' Other Styles, 17/6, 20/.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Amber or
Ruby Tinted Glass,
12/6
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
NUT-CRACKERS. Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
\ Fluted Handles,
4/6.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10//>.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Nicely Engraved,
POST 2/6 FREE.
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6.
==Si
piirgr^.
HH
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 6-Bottled, Pure Silver-plated
nn Nickel Silver, Hand-cut Crystal Glass Bottles,
£3/10/-
. Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TWO HOB-NAIL CUT-GLASS TOILET BOTTLES, PUFF
JAR, arid POMADE POT, with Richly-emhos&d Solid
Silver Tops, in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
£2/5/.
Other Styles, 30/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
Wm*
m
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Highly Chased
and Burnished, Pierced Handle,
30/
Other Styles, 21/, 22/6, 25/.
Tnnsmn
n®
lBoca-d
A-A
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated
A 1 Quality, Richly Engraved,
With Knife to Match,
35/-
Other Styles, 30/, 32/6, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT CARVERS, comprising Knife, Fork, Steel, and Pure Silver-plated Knife Rests, Finest
Selected Scotch Stag Handles, with Pure Silver-plated Ferrules,. In Silk-lined Case,
32/6
Other Styles, with 3 Pieces, 10/6, 12/6, I*s/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 72/6.
Mi-gS.Bii.gfii.
Hrmmi
VVj
.': . • ••
r
A. SAUNDERS.
HEART SALT-CELLARS, Pure Silver Mounts and
Spoons, Fine Cut-glass Bowls, in Silk-lined Case,
13/6
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
3AK BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Porcelain
China Lining,
7/6-
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
SUGAR AND CREAM STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver
Throughout, Handsomely Finished,
og/.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 40/, 45/, 50/
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Extra
Size, Handsomely Emboss-
ed, Solid Silver, Finest
Quality Bristles,
' 257-
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/,
17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE HOLDER, Real Amber, Gold-mounted, in
Richly engraved Solid Silver Case, 2Jin long,
10/6
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/d, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRUIT or SALAD DISH, Pure Silver-plated Frame
Iland-painted Floral Design Dish, Handsomely Finished*
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/, 25/, 35/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809. 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET.
OPPOSITE NEW RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


O OOOOQ Oo -
c
o.
qOOOOq
m
s
mm
S 3
m
=S=H
&
®oo©o°
90
00006°
The Conquest
of the Air.
The illustration in this advertisement
shows M. Bleriot’s Aeroplane crossing the
English Channel on its record-breaking trip
from Calais to Dover.
M. Bleriot’s machine is fitted with Con-
tinental Baloon Sheeting, the same as used
by French, German, English and Russian
Airships, Count Zeppelin’s machine, Wilbur
Wright’s Aeroplanes, and every air machine
of any importance yet constructed.
Every record in the air made to date
stands to the credit of machines fitted with
Continental Sheeting.
Continental Sheeting has been selected
by all the leading Airship, Aeroplane and
Monoplane Inventors, because of its recog-
nised superiority from the points of view of
reliability and durability.
We have supplies of Continental Aeroplane
and Baloon Sheeting at our Australian
depots, and will be pleased to submit
quotations immediately on application.
The Conquest
of the Road.
Most of the principal Road Records, not
only in Australia, but in England, France,
Germany and America, stand to the credit of
Motor Cars and Cycles fitted with Con-
tinental Tyres.
The Melbourne to Adelaide record, the
Sydney to Melbourne record, and most of
the big road performances stand to the credit
of these word-famous tyres.
These conquests of the air and the road
are not due to luck —luck does not hold in
such infinite variety —they are due to sheer
merit —merit in the Continental material
and the methods by which that material is
converted into the finished product.
It is by no means an uncommon thing for
Continental Tyres to carry heavy cars from
10,000 to 15,000 miles over the roughest
roads without even being removed from the
wheels, and in every reliability test they
prove their immense superiority in powers
of durability.
Ask to see the new Continental Model
de Course Square Treads.
m/i
Melbourne Depot: 185-87 Collins Street. Sydney Depot: Clarence Street.


fj i fj
\ 'A k
m
V !
4L»TEfe?dy -«'-••
i y
-S-t «
ft
.Ar-
K «
*
//r. -
i 1 ?
I W •»** «.'<*••
H’ . ? ■ '•■•.'' ? '-
Hi' "3fi& *
' e
&&
•T:
?» -
«it
“A'.
JZi Ci %
. „ «** v S V
g#’ tfj# V
£& «* «
ART UNION PRIZES.
It is claimed that the zenith of artistic excellence is attained in the handsome Diamond Tiara and
Necklace here illustrated. It displays to the fullest degree the fineness and ability of Australian art,
craft and gold. They are the first and second prizes for the coming Eight Hour Art Union, valued
at £5OO and £lOO respectively, and are now on view in the window of A. SAUNDERS, the well-
known jeweller, of 815 George Street, Sydney, who is the manufacturer and designer. The Tiara
(first prize) is made of 18ct. gold, set with 254 fine pure double cut diamonds. Each star is detach-
able, and can be used as a pendant or brooch, while the coronet can be converted into and worn as a
necklace. The Necklace (second prize) is also made of 18et. gold, set with 118 fine, pure, double
cut diamonds. The Eight Hour tickets, Is. each, are obtainable from A. SAUNDERS, sent post
free to any address. Write for one.*
STS
sags
No dull blades —
and no need for new ones
Smooth, close, quick, comfortable
shaving is possible only with a blade that
is properly stropped each time it is used.
The self-contained stropping arrange-
ment of the AutoSlrop Safety Razor
enables you to keep a hair-edge on
each blade for many months. Remem-
ber, no skill or experience is necessary
to keep Auto Strop blades in perfect
condition. You also avoid the buying
of new blades necessary with all
non-stropping razors, and thus the
Auto Strop Safety Razor pays for
itself in a year. There is no handling
of the blade or taking anything apart
for either stropping or cleaning.
AuUrfkroa
?^
m
The Standard Outfit consiits of quad-
ruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor;
one dozen tested lancet-steel blades ;
one horsehide strop; in leather case
2 in. by 3f in
Sold by all leading dealers.
25/-
NET
Descriptive ‘Booklet free on request to the
Agent* for Australia:
Lamson Store Service
Safely Razor Go, Lid 61 New Oxford Street, London, England
Also at
Paris and
New York
Auto'Steap
SA.FETT- *
oR
z
Also at
Montreal
(Canada)
R
U
D.
ll mil/Z^222^
THE CHARM OF CYCLING
is increased a hundred-fold when your Bicycle is fitted with a
BROOKS SADDLE.
Thousands of Cyclists have realized that fact—you should do so
too—as also that no other Saddle can even approach the
BROOKS in the matter of comfort and durability.
Write then for Art Manual, and remember the BROOKS is
stocKed by all Agents.
J. B. BROOKS & CO. Ltd., The Saddle Specialists, BIRMINGHAM
ENGLAND.
lll
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks —Richardson Ball-Bearing 1
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
“RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
** i <
3
• 'll' 1\
•<- * - v
IMLbUMiWm
5*
CLOSED AS COUCH.
2V
Ste
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. * in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
~ - w' ■{, !St
SYDNEY.
“0.K.”: Theatrical managers in America generally,
and Noo Yark in particular, are protesting more than
ever against every form of dramatic criticism not directly
intended to push the financial interests of the showman.
Everybody’s Magazine for July publishes conflicting argu-
ments, written by a playwright on the one side and a
journalist on the other. The playwright advances the
absurd theory that a show business is on all fours
with a drapery or ironmongery, and should be
equally immune from such newspaper comment as
may tend to scare customers away. “On what ground
should a theatrical manager be exposed to assaults
in our daily press from which the merchant and the
manufacturer are protected? ” Is it just for a newspaper
to “ hold up to ridicule a company of players whose life
work is to give the public some enjoyment?” asks the
vendor of plays, being just as biassed against caustic
critics as the managers who purchase his goods,
and the mummers who are engaged to submit them to ad-
miration. He talks of theatrical “property ”in the tone
of a brewer babbling of vested interests, and infers that
an amended libel'law is required “ to prevent property
being destroyed, and to preserve actors from insult and
humiliation.” Also, he lays great stress on the fact that a
recently dispraised spectacular drama cost 100,000 dollars,
as though the press owed a particular duty to bloated
capitalists. On the other hand, the journalist—Hartley
Davis —puts the matter in a commercial light, without
regard to the sacred rights of propputy or the personal
vanity of actors: “ It is the business of the dramatist
and producer to provide plays that the public is willing to
pay money to see. The business of the critic is to
inform the public whether or not, in his judgment, it
is worth while to pay good money to find out if it
likes the play.”. . . The critic is the employee of the
newspaper, and the paper’s most important business “ is
to get and keep as much, and as high class, circulation
as possible, for upon this depends its advertising revenue.
When a newspaper publishes anything about the stage
and its people, beyond perfunctory advance notices which
custom has made a perquisite of advertisers, it is primar-
ily because of the interest it believes the public has in the
review or story.” Only by telling the truth, as Hartley
Davis points out, can a critic serve the interests of the
journal he writes for. If he predicts enormous success
for plays that fail dismally, or denies the possibility of
popular attraction in a drama (intellectual or other-
wise) which is pretty certain to boom, he brings the
theatrical columns into contempt, without in the least
affecting the interests of theatrical managers by his bad
judgment. The daily papers of Australia have ceased to
command any respect for their ordinary flattering
notices, which often amount to a prophecy of a
long run for a short-lived piece. Only when they “slate ”
a show does the extraordinary circumstance excite
serious comment. On the other hand, a truthful critic
benefits the theatrical manager whose show he praises.
He cannot write it into great public favor if it lacks the
essentials of vulgar popularity ; but he influences the -
telligent few who are looking for mental entertainm .
As for his ridiculing the pretensions of plays tha_t are
essentially dull or unattractively foolish, it is the tu -
ment of a double duty. It serves to amuse those reaaers
who have been previously informed by their friends cm
the show is “ no good,” and it gives some consolation a
well as amusement to those who paid their good money
for the bad entertainment. On coming away tro ’} l
a pretentious production which has proved to be a fraud,
the disappointed “ first nighters ” may be heard speaking
of the “ rough ” notice they hope to read. For the man
who has wasted his money on a worthless drama there is
considerable satisfaction in seeing the truth printed
about it. This latter newspaper-business detail is tpe
only one that Hartley Davis has overlooked. He didn t
forget to deal with the bearing of newspaper criticism
upon Art. Mummers are always referring to themselves
as “artists,” yet they resent the sort of criticism
which painters, sculptors and musicians have to stand or
fall by. The business of the art critic is to tell the public
what pictures they should like. The business of the
theatrical critic is to tell the public what they probably
will like if they pay for going to see it, and to tell them
also what thev should like, and why they should like it.
The complaint of theatrical managers and mummers is
that the honest critics attend to their business instead of
working solely for the box office.
Undoubtedly the best of the “ British ” tenors these
times is John McCormack (presumably from Ireland) who
was engaged by the Covent Garden syndicate to support
Tetrazzini. He has the Voice Beautiful, clear and me-
lodious and free from the tremolo that marks the French
and Italian —not to mention German—singers of even the
first grade. McCormack hasn’t the same volume of sweet
tone that Edward Lloyd and Sims Reeves had in their
days. He is classed as a “ light ” tenor ; but his top
notes come easily off his chest, and the wonder is that he
doesn’t get rather more glory in his own country. His
name must be something of a drawback. Some vocalists
have distinctive names that carry popularity with them.
“Sims Reeves” was convincing, and “ Santley ” wanted a
lot of beating on a poster. Australia has had few more
naturally attractive names than “ Amy Castles.” But
“ McCormack ” 1 It has a hard, inartistic sound, especi-
ally in conjunction with John.
A cute young Melbournienne, who knows her subject,
gossips of plays and players and things she has observed
in London lately:—“ Have not been to many of the
theatres yet, but what I’ve seen I like. ‘The Arcadians’
is a lovely little musical comedy, dainty and bright.
There is one extra fine singing part in it, and the girl
here (Florence Smithson) has a beautiful voice. Meynell
and Gunn have got it for Australia. Saw Lewis Waller in
‘ The Fires of Fate,’ and just loved him, he is so natural.
The piece is the most blood and thunderous I’ve evjer
seen, but artistically acted all through. The night I was
there Mr. and Mrs. William Anderson were in the house,
and Eugenie fairly devoured it. She looked well, and wp,s
greatly improved in style. I saw Carrie Moore and hpr
husband on Sunday on the Surbiton station. They wepe
going away with a theatrical company, I think. Carrie
looks immensely happy and quite matronly. She has
lost all her girlish look. Ben Fuller is here busy buying
films and speaking disrespectfully of the Americans. He
has just come through the States. Saw in the tourist
hook at the Maoriland agency that Vinia de Loitte and
Howard Vernon are here, but have not heard of them
appearing anywhere. London is just now Bleriot mad.
We went down to Selfridge’s and viewed the aeroplape,
which is a very small affair —26ft. x 25ft. You could
scarcely credit that it could fly. Everyone is very sorry
for Latham (pronounced ‘ Lahtahm ’), who made two
attempts to cross the Channel, and got within two miles
the second time.”
“Skull”: They are all alike. I met him in Flinders-
street, near Melbourne Herald office. He was scowling
darkly across the way. His hair grew in graceful festoops
out of the roof of his hat. He looked as if he had slept in
barrels. “ A shilling, sir,” he said in deep organ tones ;
“a shilling, for the love of Heaven!” I gave him six-
pence, and fingering the coin and eyeing me darkly, he
said : “ Young man, you would not think I had been an
ac-tor.” I had guessed it at once, but did not say so.
“ Aye, and a fine ac-tor, a great ac-tor, if I may say it,
sir. But it was the dee-rink —the deeee-rink, sir. It
dragged me down— down— down ! Would you believe
it?” —he lowered his voice and tapped me impressively,
as if I were a telegraphic instrument—“ would you
believe, it, for three weeks I played heavy leads with
. ! ” He mentioned the most woebegone
manager of the most miserable little gad-about company
in Australia, and folding his arms on the high-water mark
of his wishbone, stepped back to mark the effect.
THE GIANT TURNIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Weeding, of Pinkweed, called at our office on Tues-
day morning with a bunch of turnips consisting of four
roots. The bunch weighed 211 b. are the finest
turnips we have ever seen. —Gippsland Weekly.
The fine old actor—now retired—
Took up the Moona Moon a Star.
The pictured ram he much admired,
But thought they rather went too far
In hurling censure at the Ozar.
A thing of wonder met his gaze.
He read again, and murmured “ Zounds !
The stage has dropped on evil days.
They turnips grow in Gippsland grounds
That weigh five and a quarter pounds !
“ Methinks much milder deeds are done
The law accounts as heinous crime.
’Tis well my great career is run.
I had not lived to pass my prime
If they had grown them in my time !”
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


P O K»
PIANOS
\sn
W.
o
•Hf.V,
Q
Itlft
IT.I NT
U
IIEKIi
7^27
£*
Ilf
EALE & C? LI? H
row
PIANOS
(COPY OF DIPLOMA.)
; ■ v ’ '"• ' V ' • ■" '• i '
, • ' .... * . . •• . ! :
R. F. E. R. et I.
FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION, 1908,
SHEPHERD’S BUSH, LONDON.
DIPLOMA FOR GRAND PRIX
AWARDED TO
BEALE 8 CO. LTD., New South Wales,
for PIANOS.
ARGYLL, •
H on. President.
EMILE DUPONT,
President de la Section Francaise.
THE SIGNATORIES ARE
Hi S brace The DUKE OF ARGYLL, K.T. M. EMILE DUPONT, President of the French Section.
Right Hon. The EARL OF DERBY, K.G. Right Hon. VISCOUNT SELBY.
IMRE KIRALFY, Hon. Secretary and Commissioner-General.
BEALE <&. CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3 D c°P s o fr > om 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street Brisbane (next G.P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.
SELBY,
Chairman of Executive Committee.
IMRE KIRALFY,
Commissioner-General


3
o
id
S
o
32
BOW
d
■iiunilliim
I
f
pj. i f— I
, smR.
€">7
CH
n
nj
pst
v/'
1
©i
VC?
38
n
a
i
@©
53
U
Q
K\
&
m&m
msm.
IV I
N
Dr/nii(rffl[(liinjHllfinUffillfillw/aHi2(tur//fi(iiikTffifjFHMUU/iiiiir/niuwiiiiuiriflinrin[Tivn«inniimmniii[fMnnn///i/mr/f^ur7;uafirirtnnifrffA\n[niLtrfl(nilf#/I(UV


SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
19 (
"FOC
V^' X 2\o
r -gtass
vV^ v
Al 6
viet
■\ S e
aw d ai
3,6
\de
2|\V
va£’
SC v '
a^\*Sl 6
16 •
,« shirt, 'V\ Ae
cottar ,
, 5/6, 6 / 6
o-
•’
O
m
■
fj gJk-JSm#** t an d
IS SvU RTS Sports an'i
r?*- 5 ' 6 - ruE
' flS .9 C^^ OQOE
POST F rEE '
■tffr*.* 6 - '
£<**
SO ST®
njP&R s >
Summer Undershirts—light weight, half sleeves
1/11, 2/3, 3/3.
as
5
Panama, 21/-, 25/-, 30/
’ i
Panama, 12/6 and 15/6.
'V
Straw Boaters,
2/11, 3/11, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6
m
We make a speciality
of Pyjama Suits—
4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
7/6 to 12/6. '
2 0i„., 20 /.f , 4 D „ ST M/ BAG -' ,
’ ln -> zz r; 24m., 24/-
Soft Double Collars, 9d.
.•
each
Also H'l,,, • > f/t and 6/6
• J ' /C ' </G, 5/6
Q
3/I ’■
lew
°r ij H ' s > her
'»v / *,
r
(
Military
5/6 to 12/6.
1 1
l
c\
"4r*.
/ 0/ es s > £*<Zt 0 *
f OvJ S > A ■ ■■
'<
All Orders
Carriage Paid
Summer is here
GO TO GOWINGS’
GOWING BROS
486-490 George Street, SYDNEY
(Opposite Queen Victoria MarKets).
(Est. 1868)


Shipping:.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
4 Twin Screw. Calling: at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklhournb Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : QF.O. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of R-oyal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORSOVA ..
OTWAY ..
OSTERLEY
ORVIETO ..
OTRANTO ..
ORONTES ..
OMRAH ..
OPHIR
ORMUZ
Twin-Screw
12,036 Tons.
12,077
12,129
12,000
12,124
9,023
8,282
6,814
6,465
Sailing- every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (I)utual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
*l9 & 4-21 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,858,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Horn C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |)ortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.'
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 72,500 0 0
£731.601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ====»
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London.
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
EXECUTORS
The trustees.
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman •
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt • Hon’
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Hotels, &c.
f'EORGE HOTEL,
VJf
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St , London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping:.
Nord Deutscher L/lord.
four-weekiTmail service.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers.
IVfn.rapi 11pc Kro IFn »• T *
Twin Screw Steamers.
ROON
SCHARNHORST
KONIGIN LUISE
FRIEDRICH DER
GROSSE
SEYDLITZ
BREMEN..
KONIGIN LUISE
Sydney.
Oct. 2
Oct. SO
Nov. 27
Dec. 25
Jan. 22
Feb. 19
Mar. 19
a,: f ™ — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
the "age n ts lV^^lT^ ' F ° r furttler particulars apply to
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA. MANILA,
LOHMANN & CO.,
7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capitai Paid-up £2,000,000
£500,000
~ J ” d Profits £710,998
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
x\rc»n ve r unci ana unaivia
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. •
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TH€ »B€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetotvn. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only,
t Taking' passengers for the Melbourne Cup.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London „. „. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, <fcc., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 27 (taking passengers for
the Melbourne Cup).
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 24.
MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 17 6
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
I)*Utjetij and ( oinjHinu. Lt,(l. t
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island j\Tail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES
AND
THE ISLANDS
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for* Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-Up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors ..
. £2,500,000
. £1,650,000
. £2,500,000
£6,650,000
cr*
Directors:
The Hon. C. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Auditors : William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepiieard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office— George Street , Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad Street, E.C.
Tasni arn a'' ° thp T '^ L . us^?’ aliail States, New Zealand and Fiji, and Age'nts and Correspondents throughout
J * p "' “ d K “‘- “>*
“• For " s " pl “*' MREOT - '
Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, Gen e ral Manager.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantage is terms to settlers or intending
* the important features being-: B
settlers on the land, a few of
(а) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(б) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
■jiHl 6 ten ' ,res u P° n ' vt "ch the Advance Department may lend are:—(l) Freeholds. (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
Purchase Leaser 63 ' 83 " Grant) ’ (5) Sett,ement Leases, (6) Settlement PuSSs/ (7) Conditional
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
,nak , es ad , v ; lnce : s u P, to *25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest. y
on application to B-anch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
s^®|§|v
PRBZES Value £1750
IN THE ■ ■ W
8-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30, 1909.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £63 ; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize lastyear was won by Mr. A. Moorkhoosb, Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE: SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding scamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickers may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN MoDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes ” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddoeks, in which she explain®
her reason for offering' £lOO Reward to anyone w! >
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also-
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 Ring Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
Car
ri
gej
iVm r *ndge with the large solid Bullet is uneq-
ualled for Miniature Range Shooting with .22 Ca!
\ibre rifles. It is British made too. Any Am-
Dealer can supply you. Agents:
r HE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), November 2,
calling: at all N.-VVest
Ports to Wyndhsim.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
S.S. Marloo, October 6.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oaims.
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 2.
S.S. Allinga, October 9.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE- BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-sweet, Sydney.
F.—H. —vS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines,
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.**
11,400 Tons. T. Da VMS, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 19th Oct.
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - 26th Oct.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 2nd Nov.
„ ~ ~ ADELAIDE- - 9th Nov.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL d . [ £49 10s - £l3 13 s- £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “ESSEX.” For further information, illustrated
books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane:
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
THREE WITCHES
CIGAncTT ,
MORRIS® I
hree Witches
f) CieARETTES
f/ls
for
Haco
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. Then send for particulars
of our perfectfitting
Automatic air Cushion Appliance
rue Best Rupture: Appliance of the Century-
Two Days Trial given. Pamph'.et Posted Free
WINSLOW CO., 261 Colllna St., Melbourne, Yie


' \
mm
X
w
;»r'
* « ■
'...
- ■*
1
:
ipr
r
S'
...
\
v.
\
}. •
- ~
A message from RGDSE VELT
to
■ .' 1
<&\4 J
-^Lcz^2
r^
r
See “African Game
Trails! by Theodore
Roosevelt in
October Lone Hand


Make never mock of cold nor cough ;
They danger spell, however slightly.
Nor e’er esteem it quite enough
To treat the primal symptoms lightly.
Consider, ere you money spend,
To buy but mixtures safe and sure,
Remembering one—and recommend
The worth of Woods’ Ureqt Peppermint Cure,*
We want every mother to know that she can
give Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to her
youngest child with as much confidence as to the
oldest member of the family, for it contains no
opium or other narcotics.
The “ school of arts ” is now an institution
in nearly all the big shearing sheds in Queensland.
Robert Reith conceived the idea in the ’9o’s, when
rum and two-up were the only relaxations that
offered. The owners in most cases have helped,
and so have the union organisers. At first, the
dining-room or part of the men’s quarters was
the reading-room, but most of the bigger places
now have special buildings. The Government
hands up pound for pound, and so the shelves get
filled. Corinda has already a splendid lot of 700
books, and Rarcaldine Downs and Bowen Downs
have 800 each, besides current magazines and
papers.
New Lease for Weak Lungs.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for coughs and
colds cures influenza and all lung troubles.
Price Is. 6d. and 3s,*
Under the cheery heading, “ Gibbering Spectres
of the Past,” Brisbane Worker has been digging
up old fragments like these
Philp on Kidston.
Philp (in the Legislative Assembly, November 14,1907):
When the country knows that man (Kidston) as we know
him, it will wipe him out.
Philp (at Townsville, January 22, 1908): Mr. Kidston
is the biggest rat in Queensland.
Kidston on Piiilp.
Kidston (Brisbane, February 1,1908): This man, Robert
Philp, deceived the Governor as to the possibilities of the
Legislative Assembly, and by means of that got the
Governor to consent to a dissolution, and no sooner did
he get a dissolution than he abandoned the reason which
the Governor gave to justify the dissolution. First they
lied to the Governor, and then they lied to the people.
“ Brisbane Courier ” on Piiilp.
The Premier (Philp) is played out and useless.
“ Brisbane Courier ” on Kidston.
Past experience has shown that there* are no depths of
degradation to which the late Premier (Kidston) will not
descend in order to regain office.
Untidy and obscene ghosts like these make Party
Government abhorrent to people who want to see
the country’s politics kept clean. The Party sys-
tem has a habit of bringing about deadlocks in
which it is impossible to get the majority
that the foolish old method requires unless
Potts falls into the arms of Slurk, and declares
that he and Slurk were always the best of friends,
and the things they were alleged to have said
about each other were the base inventions of a
third individual who is still at large. Of course,
there is an alternative—they might retire into the
background and let other men patch up the
difficulty ; but Potts and Slurk are not built that
way. A person who was built that way wouldn’t
be a Slurk.
Enclosed in a bottle of wood
Are the Pills Laxo-Tonic—so good
That if you once take them
You cannot forsake them,
And would not do so if you could.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd'. and Is. 6d.*
“San Remo” writes mournfully under
the willow tree: There’s a little pub on the
Western railway line in Central Bananaland which
is flanked by a crop of reeling tombstones belong-
ing to deceased customers. The old drinkery is
well known to many bushmen, amongst whom the
reputation of the owner’s grog endures to this
day. When I visited the place in the ’eighties
there were 14 graves in the little cemetery, and
the Second Oldest Inhabitant informed me that
13 of the men beneath the mounds had been slain
outright by liquor; the fourteenth had been run
over by a bullock dray after a prolonged spree.
The Second Oldest didn’t make any bones about
the matter —just waved his arm at the field of
bottle and remarked offhandedly, “Them’s
Tanker’s graves.” There is a legend that Tanker
committed hari-kari with the last bottle.
A Tenant Dispossessed.
A tenant which is quickly dispossessed by Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery is a cough or cold.
Cures when all else fails. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Now that the beautiful spring weather is at last
with us, the refreshing qualities of Scrubb’s Cloudy
Ammonia will be newly appreciated by all who have tried
it, and should be learned by any—if such there be—whc
are as yet ignorant of the virtues of Scrubb’s. It is
refreshing in the bath and delightful in the toilet-basin,
taking away all the sticky, moist feeling that is so
unpleasant, and leaving a sense of refreshment and coal
cleanliness on the skin,*
IN BANANA LAND
“ Wentworth ” : This happened, a while
back, ip a Central Queensland court. The pro-
ceedings Concerned the alleged theft of a case
of whisky from a railway truck. The pre-
siding J.P. was a local master-tradesman, who
never missed a chance of occupying the “ throne ”
—when he was sober enough ; and he only had an
occasional burst. The prosecution having told its
tale, the beak inquired of the sergeant “if he was
quite certain the stolen case contained whisky.”
The sergeant was positive. The beak demanded to
know whether the case had been recovered. It had.
“ Projooce it,” commanded the Justice. This
order was obeyed. Also, the case was opened,
and a bottle was handed up. Justice carefully
examined the bottle and sapiently remarked, “It
looks like whisky, but that does not prove it is
whisky.” The only way to identify the fluid wa'»
to open the bottle. The cork was drawn, the beak
sniffed it, handed it to the sergeant, who sniffed
it and passed it round to be further sniffed, and
eventually it arrived back at the Bench. The
Justice then proposed, by way of dispelling any
lingering doubts as to the identity of the fluid, that
it be sampled. He performed that duty largely,
and then expressed himself that it was whisky, and
not bad stuff either. He handed the bottle round
to be further sampled. Everybody concurred
in the opinion of the beak, and the bottle arrived
back at the Bench as a very dead marine. The
accused then entered on his defence, when the
Justice cut short the oration, and proceeded to
tell the accused what he thought of the awful
offence. “Stealing from the Railway Commis-
sioner is an awful crime,” he thundered. “I
could hang you for it! I could give you life for
it! ” The accused was amazed. But the effort,
combined with the heat of the weather, seemed to
exhaust the dispenser of justice. He made one
last effort, and fined the accused ss.
“ Itan ” : There is no love lost between
the reptiles of Australia and its birds. The feud
?eems a permanent affair; but it is doubtful
whether there is any other .'bird with such a dis-
tinct mission in this respect, as the koel cuckoo of
North Queensland. Although both the male (jet
black) and the female (mottled brown) are as shy
as the lyre bird, they seem to come out and openly
ally themselves with Bitighi with the object of
attacking the rock python. The bird does not
bother with the smaller reptiles which it may
chance to see from its tree-top ; but when it sights
a python it chatters excitedly. If any blacks
are within earshot they start off promptly in
search of the delicacy, which is sometimes 16ft. to
18ft. long and as thick as a man’s thigh. Often
the reptile rests lazily in the recesses of a mass of
elk-horn fern, clinging to the fork of a tree 40ft.
ot- 50ft. from the ground. Some naturalists of the
North, it is true, argue that the bird and the
python are pals, and that the call of the former is
to warn the snake of approaching danger. But it
is significant that once the snake is safely in the
hands of black brother the bird hurries away, as
though aware that its appointed job was done.
Drovers from the Gulf.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OVER the range where the sun-god dips
Down in a fire-like glow ;
Out where the touch of a white girl’s lips
Seldom the white men know ;
South’ard the drovers by light-long day.
And under the splendent stars,
Ride up with their mobs from the runs away
Up by the northern bars.
Over the hills and the downs untracked,
Lonesome and wild and grey.
Or ’mid deep forests and scrubs close-packed,
Patiently on ride they;
Summer and winter, with winds and rains
To temper the wilding blood,
Fighting the drought on the inland plains,
Crossing the far land flood.
Sons of the open who know no roofs
While green grass turns to brown,
Whose saddles creak to the tramp of hoofs
From dawn till the sun goes down ;
Travelling over the long, lone miles,
On from the Flinders’ mouth.
Always the yarn or the pipe beguiles,
Ever they face the south.
Watching the mob when the shades are wide,
Out from the camp-fire bright;
Stemming the rush with a reckless ride
Hard through the storm-racked night;
With ears attuned to the cattle call,
They pass the slow hours away,
Watching the stars as they rise and fall
From dusk to the break of day.
Or barren the route or through tall grey grass,
Flanked by a clear lagoon,
Under the mist of the morn they pass,
And the shimmering haze of noon ;
Onward for months, and whate’er betide,
Loitering days are banned,
For twice six miles must the camps divide,
By the laws of the overland.
And ever in quiet as daylight fades,
Wherever the drover be.
His fancy flits to the Lachlan glades,
Or down by the Southern Sea,
Where wistful-eyed at a cottage stands,
As the travelling mobs go past,
Watching for one from the northern lands,
The girl that he claims at last.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 25, 1909.
Mr Dear Thargomindah,—
The wind blows from the north and the river is
as if a flight of great white birds were flitting over
the waves, for the boats are out again and it is
Dinghy Day. Two steamers are at this minute
lying to, opposite the Hamilton Hotel, so crowded
that they look for all the world like beehives with
the insects clustered thick upon them. It is the
day when every shop and factory hand who has a
girl (or boy) puts on the gladdest rags and sallies
forth in pride ; and Oh ! the awful ignominy of
the unhappy young spinsters who have no straw-
hatted cavaliers. They come along, each clinging
to some equally unfortunate sister, and wilt under
the scornful glances levelled upon them by the
happily attached. But necessity knows no law,
and if they are never seen how can they make a
capture? Sometimes there is a lad or two over,
and they are in one blissful moment snatched from
their degradation, and then they range themselves
in turn with the cuttingly condescending. These
little tragedies are full of humor, but there is a
saving grace of sport among the multitude, and as
the pretty procession of boats goes by one forgets
everything but the beauty of the show. Com-
mander H. C. Whyte is a proud man this day, and
Secretary Cryle is deserving of a medal. Thanks
to its energetic officers, the Dinghy Club is a real
live concern.
The two big weddings drew crowds of femininity
to see the knots tied. What is it that is so
attractive to the unappropriated blessings in the
HIS SOBER
MOMENTS.
HIS REVERENCE:
" Hogan! Hogan!
Why don’t you give
up this bastely habit
o’ gettin’ dhrunk?"
HOGAN : “Sure, yer
Riverewe, Oi d’
naw mesclf. Oi
never touch the
dhirty shtuff in
me sober semes,
an’ thin on y
when Oi’ve had
wan or two to
set me goin’.”
wedding of sister woman ? One might fancy that
they would be so mortified that they would run a
mile rather than look on, but I rather fancy they
are attracted by the horrid realisation that once
the wedding ring is fixed the misfortunes of their
best friends begin. In short, they go to a wedding
just as the mob in Paris once hustled for a good
place round the guillotine.
Dr. Jean Thomson walked the plank with her
Gunther bearing a conscious air of looking her
best. Next day pretty Jessie Reid wedded her
sailing hero, Chapman, and made the daintiest
and freshest possible matron, in a sheath-like
robing that seemed mostly of real lace. Relatives
present included the Hawthorne dame, in an
attractive brown confection and hat, and three
pairs of Stewarts that were a pleasure to look
upon.
The annual rifle tournament having come to an
end, Colonel Lyster and his jolly missus enter-
tained a heap of folk at afternoon tea at the new
Enoggera range on Saturday. The function was
by way of a farewell, as Mrs. and Miss Lyster
have booked their passages and leave here almost
immediately. The prizes were awarded by the
Chief Justice, who likewise declared the range
open, which anyone could se'e it was. It had
never been shut.
There was a great gathering of the clans at the
Perry residence, Folkstone, on Wednesday, when
the lady and her daughter, Mrs. Bob McGowan,
said a farewell before retiring to their Harlaxton
stronghold for the summer. On the same after-
noon Mrs. Commissioner King fed a party getting
on to three figures in honor of the approaching
departure on a matrimonial voyage of Miss
Pearlie.
The Federal Treasureress was on board the
Orient liner Osterley when it tied up at Pinkenba
on Thursday. She was accompanied by two small
nieces, and during her very brief stay (she left
with the ship again) she was tea’d by her name-
sake, wife of the society-loving John, arid sundry
other folk. She also delivered herself of diverse
political opinions of a strictly Tory flavor. But
she said she liked Brisbane, so I forgive her all.
Another brief sojourner in our midst is Mrs.
Walter Howard Smith, who, with her husband,
has been doing the northern tour and a strip of
the woolly west. It would probably astonish
most Queenslanders to hear that it was the latter
district which most interested the traveller, but
such she assures me is the case. Who knows ; we
may yet live to see personally conducted tours to
Goondiwindi,
From a benign doctor friend comes to me some
unsavory details of the warehouse profession and
its effect upon the future fathers of the nation.
From these hotbeds of sweating, he declares,
come 80 per cent, of the boy patients that throng
the offices of medical men, and so well-defined are
the symptoms of overwork, nervous collapse and
utter dejection that he always prefaces the inter-
view with “Yon work in a warehouse, don’t
you ? ” A careful course of investigation has dis-
covered to him that it is not at all unusual for
lads of 18 to work regularly till about 11 p. m. lor
seven weeks at a stretch, and to toil Saturday
afternoons as well. They usually live in the
suburbs and have to walk home ; even if overtime
pay is given, there is no alternative but to walk.
Their average wage is 9s. 6d. a week, and about
three years usually sends them into a hospital.
They are, he declares, a pitiful-looking lot. As
there are only one or two fully-paid men in each
floor, the boys are nearly all doing man’s work.
Premier Bowman that is to be is reported to have
his eye on the iniquity.
It’s wonderful how an impending election makes
the various political candidates remember their
social obligations. I haven’t taken up a paper for
weeks now without reading of the graciousness
with which Mr. Candidate Nil and his wife have
opened and' subscribed to this or that fancy fair,
hospital or foreign mission. And as for the poor,
they discover more friends in a week than they
imagined they had possessed in a lifetime. Old
women find themselves visited in hospital, and
there is quite a glut of tobacco in the cottages of
the aged and gone-in-the-legs. All this, you will
understand, does not count as election expenses.
Never has there been such a canvass of the local
electorates. The Macartney lady and a select
following hare worn out three pairs of shoes each,
and the Mayoress and her ladies are no less active.
If there is a single enfranchised he or she who can
truthfully declare after polling day that he or she
was not asked to vote, then all I can say is that
that person should see Ted Holland about it, at
the Theatre Royal. He is always willing to
engage a pleasant and interesting freak at a good
salary.
Whether it is an omen for polling day or not I'
cannot say, but Premier Kidston decided to give
Ipswich a treat on Friday. So he went up to
present the T. J. Byrnes memorial medal at the
local Grammar School for girls. To accommodate
those of the faithful who wished to go for an out-
ing, a special train was run. The multitude was
carefully counted on the platform, and I believe
it amounted to about seven, so that the function
fell a trifle flat.
And speaking of friend Bowman, who, with
Jimmie Blair, is putting up the hardest work
of all the would-be legislators during the
fight, he is not getting anything like a
fair deal in the so-called Liberal press. Last
week he had a daisy of a meeting in Rock-
hampton, and only a somewhat disparaging par
was allowed to find its way into the daily news-
sheets. This sort of thing, however, does not
worry the two B.’s, for they are not short of
friends.
Sincerely yours,
MARIO.
Labor’s High-Water Mark.
A prophet has arisen in Israel —Thomas Walker,
N.S. W. Senator. The acme-of elderly, serious re-
spectability is Senator Walker —black-coated and
black-hatted ; a rnan of serious countenance and
moored to an unimpeachable brolly ; a plodder on
plain, middle-class British feet after the stodgy of
old, middle-class commercial gods; a person im-
pervious to new ideas ; a worshipper of tradition,
provided it be British tradition ; and a serious, re-
spectable, sober, moral echo of his Tory morning
paper. No one ever accused Walker of doing
anything in politics, and he seems more than halt
inclined to think that the doing of things is wrong.
No one ever charged him with riot, drunken-
ness, gambling, frivolity, novelty, originality, con-
structiveness, drastic legislation, a tendency to
wild experiment, late hours, unseemly mirth
in public places, poetry, Bolieiiiianism, long
hair, fierce and picturesque language, or un-
usualness in any form whatever. He has all the
homely or back-yard virtues which go with the
name of Thomas—not Tommy. The ideal church-
warden is T. Walker, therefore when he rises
to prophesy his words call for attention, for he
represents a class of no mean dimensions. And
last week this eminently respectable man assured
the Employers’ Federation in Sydney that the
Labor movement has now reached high-water
mark. In Westralia, it seems, some seats are to
be gained from Labor at next election by the
party of Ancient Stodge. _ N.S.W. is going to be
faithful to Soapy Gray, the weariful Pulsford and
ex-warrior Neild. And in Queensland the revul-
sion of feeling which is to result in a great Kid-
Philp triumph on Saturday is to find further
expression next year by the ejection of two more
Labor Senators to make room for men like Sledger
and Thomas Drinkwater Chataway. Walker sees
in his mind’s eye a good time coming, when
the Federal and State Houses will be full
of Freetrade churchwardens with umbrellas,
all saying that the time is not yet ripe.
The Bulletin also risks a prophecy just here.
Its theory is that the State election will show that
Queensland will never again repeat the mistake it
made when, mostly through party disorganisation,
it backwashed three years ago into the election of
Sayers and Chataway and Sledger. These three
dull failures are a warning and an example. Their
very existence is an appeal to the people to vote
the Labor ticket solidly—-even as Walker’s exist-
ence is. If there is one greater curse than another
which can fall on a country it is the habit of
being governed by serious elderly men with top
hats and umbrellas—men of routine, who say
“the proposal is premature”; men of tradition
and goloshes, with trading souls and a serious
drab view of things, and a habit of stating that
they look with alarm on the revolutionary tenden-
cies of the age. A garish pirate, asMcllwraith was
in his later days, was at least interesting. He
prevented the deadness and paralysis of unutter-
able stodge from falling on the land. The men
who came after him were as bad or worse, but
they lacked his picturesqueness. It was a
descent from the buccaneer to the unprincipled
political cheesemonger. When Queensland got
Sayers, Chataway and Sledger in Federal politics
to match Philp and Leahy and Cribb in State
affairs, it was getting the cheesemonger disease
badly. And it wasn’t even clean, honest cheese-
mongery. The State will have a chance on
Saturday to refuse to be ordinary any longer, and
to vote for men who will at least try to do things.
And whatever the capacity of the men may
prove when they get their chance, it is better to
try to do things on a large scale, even though the
result at first is failure on a large scale, than to be
a mindless plodder with an umbrella—or worse
still, a dishonest plodder with an ill-gotten
umbrella.


CANE SUGAR AND WHITE FARMERS.
Australia is the first young nation which, out of
the experience of history and the past, has
chosen to select a race-pure Social-Democracy
as its model.
The Sugar Industry in Queensland was the battle-
field upon which the issue was fought, as to
whether the Australian nation should drift
into the position of the United States and build
up a huge black race problem, or avoid the
awful evil which, in America, cost a million
lives and untold treasure, and ichich nearly
rent the greatest of the world’s democracies
into fragments.
Queensland, backed by the Australian nation, had
a choice betiveen—
(l) —A cheap aristocracy of lazy planters,
a colored proletariat, a few “ mean
whites” with that racial crime—the
half-caste; and
(2) A sturdy working Democracy of
white yeomen farmers, working in co-
operation with the benevolent services
of the State.
And the choice was never in doubt.
The result is that there is room for
A MILLION EUROPEAN FARMERS,
Cultivating their own sugar plantations on the
coastal districts of Queensland.
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXXIX.
FORTUNES IN SUGAR-I.
By J. D. FITZ GERALD, BARRISTER-AT-LAW.
ComiNG to the sugar industry, we find ourselves
on the solid ground of accomplishment. We do
not need to speculate upon the future possibilities
of the industry, as in the case of those potential
wealth-earners, wheat, maize, tobacco and rubber.
The Queensland sugar industry is a vigorous
going concern. Not only is sugar an important
industry from the material and commercial stand-
point ; it has become the symbol of a great policy
of State. Whatever divergent opinions may be
held individually, by parties, or by groups in
Australia upon current subjects of controversy,
the greatest consensus and unanimity is upon
the policy known as White Australia, which com-
prises, inter alia, a resolve that the evils and tur-
moil which the introduction of an alien colored
race have brought to the United States will be
kept out of Australia. This policy involves the
logical corollary that, if there be any industries
which cannot be successfully conducted without
the aid of alien colored labor, the industry must
succumb to the policy, and not the policy to the
industry. > So it is clear, for good or ill, that the
sugar industry must stand or fall by the success
of its operations when conducted by white labor;
for within a measurable period of time the few
Kanakas now engaged in sugar cultivation will
disappear through repatriation and natural causes.
This the small capitalist who contemplates emi*!
grating to Queensland should note. In that policy
lies his chance.
JUICE (SUGAR CANE) TRAIN AT ISIS, QUEENSLAND.
C. S. R. CO.’S MILL, CHILDERS, QUEENSLAND.
AT MOSSMAN SUGAR MILL (FORTH) PORT DOUGLAS, QUEENSLAND.
FARMER CARTING SUGAR-CANE TO MILL. MARBURG , SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
CANE FIELD, NORTH COAST RAILWAY, BLACK ALL RANGE, QUEENSLAND.
LOADING CANE, ISIS, QUEENSLAND.
It is a curious historical circumstance, to be
noted here, that this political significance has
attached itself to sugar in the British dominions
since long before Lord John Russell, 64 years ago,
moved his famous amendment, “That it is the
opinion of this House that the plan proposed by
her Majesty’s Government, in reference to the
sugar duties, professes to keep up a distinction
between foreign free-labor sugar and foreign
slave-labor sugar, which is impracticable and
illusory; and, without adequate benefit to the
consumer, tends so greatly to impair the revenue
as to render the removal of the income and pro-
perty tax at the end of three years extremely
uncertain and improbable.” It might be said
that the same issue was involved in that great
debate which has often intruded itself into Aus-
tralian State and Commonwealth policy, and is
now settled in a manner which sets up a trial as
to the possibilities of the development of our
northern territories by white labor. So far, that
trial has proved that white men can. bv their
labor in the alleged “unendurable” heat of the
tropic zones, sustain the sugar industry as a going
concern, and find profitable employment for their
labor and capital.
The debate referred to, which brought one of
his most famous speeches from Lord Macaulay,
and drew from Gladstone the well-knowii admis-
sion that “the labor of a sugar plantation was
not more unhealthy than some kinds of labor in
which the manufacturers of England are em-
ployed,” was as to whether Brazilian slave-grown
sugar should be penalised as against free-grown
West Indian sugar. Even then, although the
issue was not on all-fours with ours in Australia,
the sense of the House of Commons was against
the slave-grown sugar, as our public sentiment is
apparently against sugar grown by Kanaka
labor, which some regard as equivalent to slave
labor. However, this digression is only for the
purpose of showing how sugar has been a pawn on
the political chessboard before ever a shoot of
sugar-cane was grown in Queensland.
My purpose in these articles is not to discuss
politics, even though, from historical causes, it
appears impossible to touch sugar without becom-
ing political. My object now is to show that the
industry holds out inducements to thousands of
white settlers, who may, by the investment of a
small amount of capital and by their own personal
exertions applied to the soil, secure competencies
and even fortunes. Queensland has a climate
which, while possessing all the attributes of the
best sugar-growing countries of the world, for-
tunately lacks the disadvantages and hygienic
handicaps which tend to make the industry un-
healthy in other places. The prolific soil and
every other natural advantage is available to make
the industry productive.
Moreover, to the development of this one special
industry the State of Queensland has applied
more infinite pains than to anv other. If ever an
i,a, j i “ i
industry was fostered by care and nurtured by
administrative skill, it was the sugar industry,
In 1885 Parliament voted £50,000 for the initia-
lion of the Central Mills experiment, which really
decided the question of the permanence of the
indiistrv and its sm'f thilitv as an investment for
industry, and its suitability as an investment tor
the small farmer ; for it swung public opinion to
the determination that large plantations cquld not
be profitably worked. “ From this period,” says
Mr. Robert W. McCulloch, Inspector and Valu-
ator of Queensland sugar lands, “ the large estates
were divided into small farms, varying from 50 to
100 acres each, and leased or sold on reasonable
terms, thus settling hundreds of small farmers on
the land.”
Dealing with this phase of the question, viz.,
the change from the idea of the big plantation
worked by Kanaka labor to the subdivision into
small farms, worked by independent European
farmers and their families, Miss Flora Shaw
(now Lady Lugard), who wrote up the Queensland
sugar industry for the London Times in 1893,
said:—“ The industry, as it is, is the most thriv-
ing and prosperous of the agricultural industries
of Queensland. The mill owner is enlarging and
improving his factory. . . . Kanakas the country
allows him, but these are only a means to an
end. The end is to tenant the large estates with
farmers. The gang labor system is doomed be-
cause of its inherent expense; the mill-owner
must have cane, and so proposes to get contractors
to grow cane for him. He goes so far as to offer
his land on easy terms of purchase to whoever will
supply his mill with cane.”
In 1899 a further step was taken by the Queens-
land Government, in pursuance of its determina-
tion to build up the wealth-producing sugar
industry, viz., the engagement of Dr. Maxwell,
Chief Chemist and Director of the Cane Industrv
of Hawaii, as Director of the Sugar Bureau, Comp-
troller of the Central Mills, and General Adviser
to the Government and the farmers of Queensland,
at a salary of £3OOO per annum, equal to the
salary which the Chief Commissioner of Railways
in N.S.W. receives for the administration of a
State service representing an expenditure of
£50,000,000 on construction and maintenance.
This is one sign of the value placed by the State
on the sugar industry. In his first report (1899)
Dr. Maxwell noted that the large estates which
formerly existed (at the time when Miss Shaw
noted the impending change) had been cut up
into farms and rented or sold to “small men.”
Commenting on this, Dr. Maxwell made some ob-
servations which will be of the greatest value to the
emigrant who looks to tropical Queensland as a
suitable sphere for the exercise of his energies and
the investment of his capital. He said :
These facts place before us a situation that is almost
unique and peculiar to Queensland. In other sugar-
growing countries, the estates are in the hands of ex-
tensive owners or controlled by large corporations, which
state carried with it the consequence that a minimum
number of white men are located on the land. In this
colony (Queensland), this ownership or occupancy em-
braces a vast number of strong, progressive white men,
who are planted all over the sugar-growing areas. These
men furnish the material which puts the mills into
operation, and as the mills depend wholly upon the fields,
it appears that the future of the sugar industry of the
colony is very much in the hands of those numerous and
small cane-growers.
Here, then, is a bright prospect for the emi-
grant. He may take his place in the ranks of
those “strong, progressive white men,” who, in-
dependent of the aid of Kanaka labor, are build-
ing up the sugar industry step by step, until it
will employ millions of capital in addition to the
millions which Private Enterprise and the State
have already poured into it; and will be a source
of employment for sturdy men who, when they
embark upon sugar-growing, are their own bosses,
owners of their own lands, and independent of
all save the communal aid which the State ser-
vices hold out encouragingly to them.


/-
t 2
1
=55
2*
'TV
Should know that the purest,
sweetest and most economical
method of preserving, purifying
and beautifying baby’s tender skin
lies in warm baths with
CUTiCIA SOAT
And gentle applications of Cuti-
cura Ointment. For eczemas,
rashes, itchings and chafings of
childhood and for the prevention
of the same, as well as for the
sanative, antiseptic cleansing of
ulcerated, inflamed mucous sur-
faces and other uses which suggest
themselves to women, these gen-
tle emollients are indispensable.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London. 517,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue do la Paix: Austra-
lia. R. Towns & Co.. Sydney: India, B. K. Paul,
Calcutta: China, Hone Kone Drue Co.: Janan,
Maruya. Ltd.. Tokfo; ®o. Africa. Lennon, Ltd., Cnue
Town, etc.; TT.S.A., Potter Dm" A- Chem. Corp.,
Vl» Pm os., 135 Columbus Ave.. Boston. Mass.
U3"Post-free. Cutlcura Book on Care o£ the Skin,
*0
NERVOUSNESS.
The English Home Remedy is
Nature’s cure for all Nervous
Troubles. It works wonders in
curing every form of Nervousness,
Loss of Energy, Despondency and Debility. It
has cured after years of unsuccessful use of every
so-called remedy employed for the purpose. If
you have some particularly obstinate symptoms of
Nervous and allied troubles, don’t delay trying
this remarkable discovery. Valuable Booklet
sent Free to those interested.
London Specialities Agency,
Dept. 5, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
If cleaned with
LEEMING’S
Try this
SPECIAL
line of
Derby
Shoe,
in Welted or
Pump Soles,
Best Glaee
Kid, with
Patent Caps
and Cuban
Heels.
Price,
16/6
Postage 9d.
extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste
(6d. per tin),
the Wear is Guaranteed.
Send for Price Li=ts—Free. 'Phone 1799.
LEE MING’S Shoe Stores,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE 7 jc- Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE -r.-ie Lollie-likc Laxative.
LAXATINE Ihe Cure Tor Constipation.
LAXATINE Seta by AH Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAX A TINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
m
%
X 4*
=OE
DYSPEPTICS!
Nervous, debilitated, half-dead
people will gain new life, energy
and strength from Mother Seigel'.s
Syrup, because it does the only
thing which can give permanent
relief —helps you to digest your food.
Food is a strength-maker, and
health-maker, but it must be di-
gested. Discomfort after eating,
languor, headaches, palpitation,
flatuleftce, loss of appetite, broken
sleep, these are sure signs of indi-
gestion. Mother Seigel's Syrup is
the sure cure. As a digestive tonic
and stomachic remedy it has no
equal. Take it daily after meals.
MOTHER
SYRUP
WILL CURE YOU.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es &, Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
a
WOMEN
SUFFER More
Than MEN!
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men.
Excess fat takes away a
a woman’s loveliness —
gives her an ugly, ungainly appearance, im-
pedes her gait, interferes with her maternal
instincts, injures her general health and
makes life a burden, rather than a pleasure.
"Fatcure"
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable, non-poisonous and harmless.
The fat, once reduced, does not return.
“Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe and
harmless treatment for Obesity. Send 2d.
stamp for FREE TRIAL Sample and full
particulars, or call if convenient. 9 till 5.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Casllereagh St., Sydney.
Pipes
(GBD)
•STTRn
Pipes
SPBOIAL
Silver
Mounted
Nothing Ever Like Them
Shown in Australia Before
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS,
OK
IF
Unable
To
Procure
/At Local
rTobaccomst
T Apply at
'Wholesale
Depot
SIZE
LARGER
7'6
231 Clarence Street,'Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
'That Have Caught On!'
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover—full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia —you
ought to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Steve Brown’s Bunyip, by A. J. Barry; price,
cloth, 1/- ; postage 4d.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A. J. Barry ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
How McOougall Topped the Score, by T. E.
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The Spring Cleaning,
by T. E. Speneer;
price, paper, 1/- ; post-
age 3d.
(The above two com-
bined), price, cloth,
3/6 ; postage sd.
The Surprising Ad-
ventures of Mrs.
McSweeney, by T. E.
Spencer; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, by
T. E. Spencer; price,
paper, 1/-; post age 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by
Harry Tighe ; price,
paper, 1/-: postage 3d.
The Spell Of the Bush, by John X. Cameron ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by Alt Brasch ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Chas. White ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Riverfall, by L. B. Por-
ter ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Adventures of Russell
Howard, by A. E. Job-
son ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
The New Chum, by A.
H. Adams; price,
paper, 1/-; postag-e 3d.
The Barb of an Arrow,
by Roy Bridges ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
“ The Bulletin ” Re-
citer, New Edition ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
Harbor Guide, with Colored Maps: price, paper,
6d. ; postage 3d.
Guide to Sydney, with Colored Maps; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
A Chinese Vengeance, by R. A. Kent.
A Rogue’s Luck, by Arthur Wright.
The Rival Physicians, by Papl Cupid.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
p
wmßmm
ALLADS
Get Prepared for the Winter.
£
Have Better Light
with a Reduced
Carbide Bill by
I using our Burners.
We have about 30
different designs to
select from.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Sample Dozen of Assorted
Makes, post free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
The
Pipe
of
Pipes!
“E.F.L.” Brand
Made in London by highly skilled
workmen, from best old seasoned
Briar-root, mounted with Sterling
Silver Bands. They are supplied
in three grades—
A, B and C Quality,
and are guaranteed, with fair
usage, not to crack or burn.
Price, ■from 2s. 6d. each.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues to
E. F. LIND & CO.,
Tobacconists,
398 GEORGE STREET, near King Street, SYDNEY
Branches : 5 Macquarie Place and 47 Pitt Street.
SPRING SUITINGS.
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ AeL:x ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
"O 1
States,
Street,
THE HOP”—Cheap Edition NowOn
Sale—2/6 ; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Sydney.
Business. Robbery, etc.
Brisbane’s army of milk-sellers still consists
largely of thieves. Out of 158 recent samples 64 were Tap
as well as Cow. Some analyses gave the Enoggera reser-
voir a share up to 23 per cent. During the past year
vendors have been fined in all £2OO, but as the value of
the water added during the same term would probably
amount to over £2OOO, the robber was still £lBOO to the
good.
* * * *
S. Australia has an idea that it ought to be
quite able to grow its own sponges, and sell a few tons a
neighbors. In Venus Bay, on the West Coast,
it finds that they grow like cabbages; and a little co
with the wholesale chemists and fluff-goods warehouse’
men behind it, has leased a square mile of ocean, and has
its fingers stretched out over another four miles. Still
S. Aus. seems to have an exalted opinion of the quantitv
of sponges that the Commonwealth calls for, and its
Sioon S nn ePOrt u d th ® ° tl,er da T that from £30,000 to
£lOO,OOO worth were imported every year, whereas the
Commonwealth has a spasm of very-extra cleanliness
when it imports more than £BOOO worth. Nevertheless
eVe T^ Sm \ is verv well worth saving from Oysteropulos
and the other foreign sponge-suppliers.
u “Aural ” : The N.S.W. Minister of Agriculture
has discovered that our butter is now shut out from
every country in Europe except England, because it
contains poison. And even sleepy old England is
about to shut out boric acid mixed with butter The
Minister proposed to teach the factory- managers how to
make butter without preservatives. ’ Poor futile Minis-
ter ! Does he imagine that butter ‘made with rotten
dirty cream will keep without the aid of that useful dis-
lnfectarit—boric acid? Any old woman can make butter
that will keep if she acts on the knowledge that
the whole science of butter-making is cleanliness ; and
nobody can make it where cleanliness is a stranger
The writer’s home is in one of those half-and-half dairy-
ing districts in the Private Enterprise stage. And here
are some facts gathered in this district: One “ dairy-
woman, who has neither dairy nor separator, “sets”
her dishes of milk under the bed. One man leaves the
cans of milk in the milking shed all night. Another’s
separator room adjoins his bedroom. These two men are
conscientiously clean, but are quite unayvare that milk is
a hungry absorbent of stinks. . Another case : An expert
examined a separator that had gone on strike. He found
it blocked with horrible wriggling things. The oyvner had
neveronce cleaned it! Forbid adulteration absolutely and
the butter made from some of these people’s milk could
not be safely eaten by a dog. The legalising by the
Commerce Act of limited adulteration yvas a sop to Tory
politicians, the champions of that Private Enterprise
which fattens on filth yvhen it is not prospering on
poverty—other people’s poverty. The remedy is, as
usual, Co-operation, or its elder and more intelligent
brother, Socialism. The Commerce Act is Socialism gone
lame, and halt and blind. It bears the stamp of hesita-
tion, cowardice, and that trashy half-and-half compromise
that has damned many a good Act before it. It does not
forbid the poisoning of food—it limits it. It legalises
adulteration on a small scale, and demands that the per-
centage of poison be stated on the labels, the result beino-
that after a few months’ experience of the Act, we are no
longer startled to read the words “Sulphuric Acid ” on
a favorite hotel drink, or “ Boric Acid ” on the butter
jam, cheese, etc. The thoughtless public argues that
adulterants allowed by Act of Parliament may be con-
sumed with impunity. And they are consumed, but not
with impunity.
* • * *
The Melbourne Hotel Licensees’ Union is
moving to acquire a soft-drink factory, to be worked on
co-operative lineslike the Abbotsford breyvery. One large
business at North Titzroy is rvilling to be bought out
and the scheme is pretty certain to go through. And if
this comes off a co operative ice-factory will follow
These beer-sellers evidently reckon that 00-operative En-
terprise is a great thing—when it’s their own enterprise.
And that s just what some day the crowd may say about
the pubs too, whereupon shingles will be hung- up noti-
fy rthln that thG municipal or State beer-pump is at work
* * * *
“•T P.”: The silent rifle has arrived, and the
farm-burning gentleman yvho goes out in the future to
fight for the good old flag (and the gold mines it floats
’over) will be up against a very inconvenient weapon.
Teddy Roosevelt has been using the machine in Africa in
his pursuit of the infuriated lion. It is the invention of
Hiram P. Maxim (son of the great Maxim), and consists
of a small cylinder, easily affixed to the muzzle of a
rifle barrel. The interior mechanism is in the- form of a
turbine having fixed blades, imparting to the gases of the
explosion a rotary motion which almost entirely destroys'
sound. The device also wipes out the flash and reduces
the recoil by over 60 per cent. The defending army of
the future, yvell planted on its collective stomach in‘the
ditch behind the fence, will be a deadly thing to strike
yy-hen it can mow down the attacking force yvithout fear
of revealing its exact hiding place by either noise,.flash
or smoke. Fortunately Maxim’s device will not act on
revolvers, so as an accessory to the common or back lane
y-anety of crime the silencer is valueless.
BROWN’S TRAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A city clerk was Henry Brown,
Whose suburb knew nor tram nor train ;
And ev’ry morn he walked to town.
From nine till five, with busy brain,
He labored in an office dim.
Each eve he walked out home again.
And all this tramping seemed to him
A waste of time, for, ’mid the strife,
He could not keep his lawn in trim.
It clouded his domestic life—
This going early, coming late—
And much distressed his little wife.
Then some wise man declared the State
Should put in trams, and for this scheme
Brown was a red-hot advocate.
At last he realised his dream ;
And daily in and out of town
He trammed it with content supreme.
For, though it cost him half-a-crown
A week in fares, the time he saved
Meant much to him and Mrs. Brown.
And so they lived and pinched and slaved ;
And their suburban happiness
Seemed all that they had ever craved.
The little wife began to bless
The trams ; nor grieved their meagre dole
Was weekly two and sixpence less.
Then Brown’s employer, kindly soul,
Beamed of this tram-car luxury,
And promptly rose to take his toll.
He sent for Brown and said that he
Should now contrive to come at eight,
Since trams blessed his vicinity.
He also deemed it. wise to state
That idleness begat much ill,
And it was wrong to sleep in late.
Yet Brown contrived to tram it still,
And trim his lawn with tender care,
And pay his rent and baker’s bill.
His little wife vowed it unfair ;
But bowed to stern, relentless fate,
And smiled and sewed and worked her share.
Just here, the landlord wrote to state,
Since trams improved his property,
He’d raise the rent as from that date.
“ Three shillings weekly will not be
Too much—an equitable rise,
Considering the trams,” wrote he.
What profit oaths or women’s sighs?
His “ sacred rights," of wealth the fount,
A landlord has to recognise.
To what do poor clerks’ lives amount?
An extra hour of slavery
Swells an employer’s bank account.
The wealthy boss thanks God that he
Has saved some money out of Brown.
The landlord smiles contentedly.
The trams run gaily up and down,
A sight Brown sadly notes as he
Plods daily in and out of town.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
English
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889.
London IBGZ. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
N
?HAMS
DON
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
S.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
m
fLoil
Ml
are for sale by all progressive Hardware
and Sporting Goods Merchants,
AND
Han Beard’s splendid effort,
“ GUNS AND GUNNING,”
will be mailed post paid to any applicant
by J. Stevens Akms & Tool Company,
Chicopee Falls, Mass., upon receipt of
price. For paper cover edition forward
1/3; for cloth bound book send 1/8.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian
representative for
STEVENS ARMS CO., Box SS, G.P.C.
Adelaide, S. Australia.
|:
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
BEETHAM S LAIT LAROLA
Invaluable
fortheSKlN
in HOT
or COLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
LAIT
a/ro
Reg
OOLE. Makers
M.BEETHAM & SON,
CHELTENHAM, ENG LAND.
Gives a
Perfect
[OMPIfIION
Soft
as
Velvet.
BEET HA M’S LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise U Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
See the passing Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin—thin
people look stout. The
Laughing- Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
All gro wfat from laughter.
It is ! well and strongly
made, and cannot get out
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Laughing Camera.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open,
use, also a superior
directions. 2/2, post
Makes a splendid knife for general
rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
free anywhere.
THE POLYCHROMATIC BILLIARD BALL.
After introducing any
number of silk handker-
chiefs, each of a different
color, the conjurer re-
quests the company to
select any one of the
handkerchiefs (no forc-
ing'). Seizing the selected
handkerchief, the per-
former waves his hand
gently up and down, when
the handkerchief becomes
smaller and smaller until
it finally disappears alto-
gether, having given place
to a solid billiard ball of
the same color as the
handkerchief. This is a
very novel and inexplic-
able trick, while the
apparatus that we furnish
for this trick is made of very substantial and superior
material, and quite impossible to get out of order.
Suitable for either amateur or professional.
Complete with red, white and blue handkerchiefs.
Price (with full instructions), 1/6 ; post free, 2/-
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
PLAS M O N
PLASW
REGgIftMI«A
*
AT THE ANTARCTIC.
Commander E. H. Shackleton, R.N., states:
“ We used Plasmon preparations continually during the
National Antarctic Expedition, and one of our sledging
parties practically lived on Plasmon.”
Mr. Douglas Mawson, lecturer of Adelaide University, says:
“Of all the foods, the Plasmon foods were used mostly—
Plasmon Biscuits, Plasmon'Cocoa, and'PlasmoiT'itself!”*"
Dr. Marshall, Medical Officer of the Expedition, states:
“ Plasmon Biscuits and Plasmon Cocoa were of tremendous
value.” u
Plasmon is an unequalled NERVE & BRAIN FOOD, con-
taining the Organic SALTS and PHOSPHORUS cf MILK.
PLASMON is USED by the ROYAL FAMILY.
Of all chemists, grocers and stores.
PLASMON, Ltd., London,
Australian Depot: 5 and 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
NO RATS or MICE SEEN
Since using: DANYSZ VIRUS. Discovered at the
Pasteur Institute, Paris. See testimonials.
Single Tubes, 2/6, five for 10/- Post Free from
DANYSZ VIRUS,
454-6 FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE,
and 13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Harmless to other animals. All chemists and storekeepers.
D
&
m
3*.
"4/?n
of
r 5 ADE
*tG U.S.P* 1
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GEWASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe U Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
V
SgT-
r A
w
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on. ;
Oup modern modical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
oup doctors to keep us 111. Thelp prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little Is known of medicine
and Its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
thing's he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed t>" build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no WeaKness, no Inactive Parts* no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble* if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Du. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worßs while you sleep* and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted iu a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £1 in many cases;
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALIi for Free Consultation. Hours— 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Tha McLAUGHUN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castiereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1


A »lU>
rr
ITS A-COMING ON !
DON’T REMAIN BALD!
If you are ABSOLUTELY bald, you will remain so all your life—nothing- on earth will
,_^ TTI frlve . vou back your hair. BUT if you still have a “ down ”or light “ fluff ”on your pate,
YOUR BALDNESS CAN BE CURED. , F
That “ down ” or “ fluff ” is YOUNG HAIR doing its utmost to grow strong and vigorous on a
parched, dry and barren scalp. '
Irrigate “That Bald Spot” with plentiful showers of
PAPILLA HAIR TONIC,
and as sure as grass grows after a shower of rain, so surely will that “ down ” take on a new, strong
and vigorous life, and grow into long, strong and thick hair.
I positively guarantee Capilla to do all I claim for it—if it doesn’t, back goes your money. If
you want a fairer or stronger hair-growing proposition than I offer, then you don’t deserve to have
a decent growth of hair.
“I have used your Hair Tonic, which speaks for.itself, it having made my hair grow on
bald patches when there seemed to be no roots at all. I was severely burned with acids on
the head, which necessitated my removal to a hospital for treatment, and am very pleased at
the way your tonic has acted. Wishing you every success.”—S. RUSSELL, “Leymvood,”
Prospect Terrace, Brisbane, Ist July, 1909.
“ About five years ago I began to use your Capilla, and I found it strengthened my hair
considerably. I honestly believe that if I had commenced using Capilla about nine or ten
years ago, I would have had as good a head of hair as I had in my youth. And I believe if
Capilla had been in vogue half a century ago there is many a man this day, if he were alive,
would be thankful ” —JOHN G. LUCAS, Boorooma, viaßrewarrina, N.S. W., 7th July, 1909.
All Chemists and Stores throughout Australia sell Capilla, 2/6 per bottle ; N.Z., 3/6 ; 6 bottles,
full course, posted direct under cover, 19/4, from
W. O. RICHARDS (CAPILLA LIMITED),
117 J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
<33 <33* <3ZI
rge-jon
Is your Liver right?
It s one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kills enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle’s Antibilious Pill, for Cockle’s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
years and still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.
cT
Q
s>
m
PILLS.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van
''dressers, Hair. 161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Workers & Dermatoiowsts, Between Elizabeth and Castlereafrh Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/3.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138,
RUPTURE!
Wh it a world of pain and misery this one word means to thousands ! Does it
mean anything to YOU ?
Are you one of those who go on hoping against hope for relief by using a truss, or have
you reached the end of your hope ? Let us tell you quietly, confidently, earnestly that there
IS a cure for rupture—a treatment that hundreds of men and women gratefully acknowledge
as their salvation from suffering.
The Dr. J. A. Sherman Method
Instantly Relieves and
Permanently Cures Rupture.
We treat both sexes, and can show you hundreds of instances where ruptures of many
years' standing have been absolutely cured. Here’s a type of the testimonials we get*
Heriot, N.Z., December 28th, 1908.
Dear Sir,—My four children treated by you are all cured. One boy, 11 years old had been
ruptured for ten years ; the girl, 8 years old, bad been ruptured for two years • another bov 5 years
old, ruptured since a baby ; and the youngest, 1J years old, also raptured since a baby I say
Dr. J. A. Sherman’s Method is a great boon to humanity, as I am convinced it is a certain cure for
rupture. • Yours gratefully,
Mrs. w. m. McDonald.
Will you take an early opportunity of having a free consultation ?
HOURS Daily (Sunday excepted), 10 a.in. to 12 noon ; 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays
10 a.m. to 12 noon. Extra hours : —Friday evenings, 7to 9.
Send for two interestingly descriptive books if you cannot call. We post them free
and they SHOW how and why the Sherman Treatment has been successful. ’
A. W. MARTIN
Sole Controller in Australasia of
the Dr. J. A. Sherman Method,
Gibbs’ Chambers, 7 Moore Street, near the G.P.0., Sydney.
A SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY!
MR. STEIDLE, representing STEIDLE & LUX, Australia’s
Leading Coiffeurs, is now visiting SYDNEY for the purpose
of taking orders in every branch of ARTISTIC HAIRWORK.
The Latest and
Most Up-to-date
Styles in
Transforma-
tions, Plaits,
Switches
and Curls,
as well as the
CHOICEST
PARISIAN HAIR
ORNAMENTS
and
PARFUMERIE,
are now on
view at the
below addresses.
I
%
.
1
JRP
i ***smmM'
tarn
' *-.
v.
Any Shade
of Hair
no matter how
difficult, can be
matched from
Messrs. STEIDLE
and LUX’S
STOCK,
which
is the
largest
and most
carefully select-
ed in Australia.
Consultations Daily from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., and from 2 to 6.
Address—
The Australia Manicure U Toilet Rooms,
42a Castlereagh Street, o». Hotel Australia, SYDNEY.
Entrance through large doorway. Above Medlow Baths Office. TELEPHONE, 823 CITY.
Melbourne Address: 294 Collins Street, - The Block.”
•f•*•!?•••!!
o
•V:'Wv : :-v
Unfortunately all
whiskies look alike
—that’s the trouble.
Johnnie Walker
tastes different-
That’s the remedy !
Its the Purity and
Maturity that tells.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
John Walker & Sons, Scotch Whisky
Distillers, Kilmarnock.
!
Cj
Born 1820.
'Still going
strong.
The“ECHOPHONE”
ACCORDEON
fitted with
Phonograph Horn.
More than DOUBLE THE TONE POWER of an
Ordinary Accordeon.
The most striking hit ever put on the market in the
Accordeon trade.
You will like them, no matter what make of instrument
you have used.
Something new at last! Detachable Phonograph Horn of
Burnished Brass. They stand alone.
Size, lljin. x 6Jin. 10 keys, 3 sets of reeds, double bellows, brass
corner protectors; enonised case, leather straps, bone keys
Reed plates laid on leather and screw fixed.
PriCoj £2 a Postage 3/0 extra.
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., Brisbane, Queensland


The Chow is Fat’s “ handy-man’’—the man he
employs when he doesn’t want to pay regular
white” man’s wages. And how beautifully he lies
ahout it ! In Canada, it was cabled the other
day, Fat is afraid he’ll have to employ Ah Goon
to build the mountain section of tne Grand Trunk
Pacific Railway, it being too cold for the white
man to work there. And in Australia Fat wants
the Chow coolie to be permitted to work in the
North, because it’s too hot for the white man- to
work there. In Australia the Chow is represented
as a hot-climate specialist; in Canada the same
Chow is represented as a cold-climate specialist.
And when it’s not very hot and not very
cold, wherefore the climate can’t .be blamed
either way, Fat just sneaks in his cheap
han ly man,, and says in a large, general wAv,
“ It’s not white man’s work.” It doesn’t matter
what the “it” is—anything from mining in
S’Africa to scrub-cutting in N. S. Wales.
“ 0. ” on the importing habit : —' ;
I don’t agree with those growlers that see no good in
rabbits, governors, and other importations to Australia.
No rabbits, no wire netting. Thus Carrutheis would have
missed the chance of a lifetime.
There is a peculiar water-bug in our rivers. It is about
an inch long. It is nearly all tail or something like tail.
Sometimes it leaves the water, and goes for a walk
on terra firmn. This is a great mistake, for its surface
becomes dry, and when it tries to get back to its home in
the water it can’t. It floats on the top and is unable to
break the film. Its efforts to get into the water are like
those of a Fused politician to get into office. It generally
takes about an hour to wet the tip of its tail. That
accomplished it descends easily. It is very injurious to
the eggs of our valuable fishes, so the stickleback,
a small British fish, has been introduced to destroy it.
The stickleback is only a few inches in length, but it is
the best fighter on record. After every victory its color
brightens, so that a veteran stickleback is as red as a
cardinal. I think William Lyne must be some relation
to the stickleback. When Johnson was here I noticed
that his teeth were rather brilliant. I have some teetotal
friends, and their noses are simply crimson. I expect
their victory over the cursed drink has caused this.
An insect called the corixa lives in Mexico. It should
be brought to this country. It is about one-third of an
inch long. It inhabits the trees. There are no bush fires
in Mexico. You couldn’t even boil your billy in the open
air in Mexico. As soon as a fire starts, these insects
swarm down from the trees in such multitudes that they
immediately extinguish it.
I have written to a friend in America to send me out a
few skunks. I want to show some Liberals and Re-
formers that they are not the only pebbles on the beach.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Waybstck Book you are bound to read, Is.
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 10/-
; Black, White,
, Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiik Bulletin.] [5
BLAIRS
■Gout
Pills
'QQUT & RHCOMATIt'
PftJLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR COUt and
A
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
mm
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
ftLAIR'S COUT and
Rheumatic pills elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
ftherefore PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at I/l>£ and 2/9.
BLAIR'S HAVE STOOb
THE TEST OF TIME.
%
MORRISS
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
ointment
A
CURES
\o>
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Governmenx Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq.: The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Bichard Teece, F.1.A.. F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,
Works :
Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers: F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
%
'%■
V
\ WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
•• • •
• • ••
Sauce
the basis of which is
"MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely' approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide,
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the; robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON,' * Bridge #Loftus Sts., Sydney
COUGHS
OP AlrX, KINDS
are quickly cured by
POWELL’S
BALSAM“ANISEED
Of all Chemists and Stores. Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales
acid Queensland—ELLlOTT BROS., SYDNEY & BRISBANE,
&
THE COUGH REMEDY
WITH THE
BEST REPUTATION
A
A'
&
Food.
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Slaymarket, Sydney, N.*S.W.
Stte LEADING
HOUSE
• i ' - •
ICAN’T
B
BEAT
Goods
Fishing; TacKle &, Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
& Snap
We also carry in stock Rabbi Nets, Fruit
Tree Netting, and all Net Sundries.
Bridles
SEND FOR OUR NET PRICE LIST—POST FREE.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book, oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
' Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBR.ACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Mistal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor, : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BERR.
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. '
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nkw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush, Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd. .
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. iNGEItSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget' Song .
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post tree. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
ose who have taken thic mprliVino —i _ i i- -t , _ „
Asthl h a? S Diffic°ult h y aV of BinTthinv P ° Wer ' SuffererS ft ° m Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it Sects aCCTt expenen ,^ e . dell g htf ul and rapid relief; and to those
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voire anri’it np'ti n m plete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ have- on the> g fi Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
£“ert£n. h<>USe ' h °“ ,d ! *> * * ake " * •** beginning, a dose VtSST&X »SS, “ '^plet
Sma PorCarcTeU W ‘ * H “»"*
PATERNOSTER’S
H PILLS ■■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. Weclaim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING C 0„ OPP.0 PP . c.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
&he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, ts.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Sttui Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.’
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTIS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So/d by all Chemists.


7S
$
m
0 Jti
wrv
8
M%/J
ASK?/'*
ife
£w
®r*o
•'fe*
iWiim
California
Syrup of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions of families.
It acts mildly yet thoroughly
on the kidneys, liver, bowels
and stomach, and does not
weaken them. It is palatable
to take; and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of Figs,
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
To obtain its beneficial effects, buy
the genuine, which bears the
name and trade mark of the
manufacturers.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A
<3
<2
o
s/
o
h
&DE
Established 1752.
When you need a Pill, take a
Brandreth's
Pill
PURELY VEGETABLE.
ALWAYS EFFECTIVE.
For Chronic Constipation.
Brandreth’s Pills purify the blood,
invigorate the digestion and cleanse the
stomach and bowels. They stimulate the
liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic
medicine that regulate, purify and fortify the whole system.
Constipation, Dizziness, Drowsiness, Coated Tongue, Bad
Breath, Headache, Pain in Stomach, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Diver Complaint, Bilious Headache, Jaundice, or any disorder
arising from impure state of the blood.
FOR SALE BY DRUGGISTS throughout the world.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., 22 Hamilton Square, Birkenhead, England.
Draw the picture up
close before your eyes
and watch the pill
go into the mouth.
Established 1847.
AllcockS Porous Plaster
A Universal Remedy -for Pain.
Wherever there’s pain apply an Allcock’s Plaster.
The very best which the
Old Country produces.
HORROCKSES’
Unequalled for FLANNELETTES
make, style SHEETINGS
finish and durability LONG CLOTHS, etc.
Sold by all Drapers and Storekeepers
See “HORROCKSES”’ name on the Selvedge
G.&G.149
Hotelkeepers S Storekeepers! Confectioners!
Make your own AERATED WATERS
Price, £lB
and up.
Cash or Terms.
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to any others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
V Queensland Agents :
ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Shell!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Broome, the centre of the Westralian pearling industry,
is booming. Shell is higher than for years past, and the
market is steady. Pearls are in good demand. .. . There
are now over a couple of hundred whites in the business,
either as full or part owners of vessels, and as many more
are engaged as shell-openers. Japs and Mala} r s still do
the monotonous work of pumping* air to the men on the
ocean bed. — News item .
"I\T' 0B '’ WAE,D the pearlers are faring, white
\ man and Monkey, Malay ;
v Who in Australia is caring ? Shell’s quoted
higher to-day !
Shell from the sea-depths for beauty, gems for the
breast of a queen ;
Shell that shall call us to duty—gun-muzzles
savage and lean !
Japs and Malays for the diving, doing monotony’s
chores —
Who for the toiling and striving? Bolting and
barring of doors ?
Who for the Nation Australian? Answer we,
Sydney and Broome ;
White man or patient-eyed alien ?—These are the
questions of Doom !
Pearls at the opera flashing, shell that the diver
hath won ;
Shell from the cannon’s mouth smashing—which
shall ye value anon ?
Luggers that steer in the morning, seeking the
treasures below ;
Ships that shall vomit their scorning—which shall
ye sigh for in woe ?
Wyndharn, Carnarvon and Hedland—they reek
of the Chow and the Jap ;
Ye who shall mourn for a dead land, what of the
treasures of “scrap”?
Iron’s more precious than shell is, steel than the
wonders of Broome;
Sounded already your knell is—Hark to the pre-
sage of Doom !
White men nor’-westerly pearling, luggers a-rock
on the swell;
Missiles in battle-wrath hurling—hail to the
Finders of Shell!
Gates of a Continent nor’ward, all of them free
and unbarred ;
Powers veering rapidly war-ward—who shall be
saviour and guard ?
Pearls for the mistress and siren, Delilahs that
render us weak ;
Jewels of steel and of iron— these let us hastily
seek !
Battleships, armies and rifles—answer ye, Mel-
bourne and Broome,
Why are ye busied with trifles? —Hark to the
hammers of Doom !
Broome in the Nor’land is booming, shell they are
raising in tons;
Nor’ward the cloud-wreaths are looming—what of
the booming of guns?
Pearls (and their price mounting higher) won by
the Jap and Malay;
Baubles Of woman’s!desire —’ware lest ye heavily
pay!
Shell that shall blindingly shatter, ships that shall
fling from the seas
Gems of the arsenal’s matter—precious, how
precious are these?
Patient, how patient the Alien, toiling at Derby
and Broome!
Hail to the jewels Australian! —Jewels of Folly
and Doom!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Shirt and the Heathen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SAM LING’S windows are modestly
veiled in dust. Cobwebs drape the upper
panes. His sign is partly obliterated by a
clod of Australian mud, but Sam rises superior to
the insult and does not trouble to wipe it out.
Nor does it worry him that “ lallikin ” boys have
bereft his door of glass —he merely bridges the
gaps with deal from a tea chest, and plods on with
his iron.
Having wedged her unreliable time-payment
go-cart against his portal, the young matron steps
from the cold sunlight of the pavement into the
muggy atmosphere of Sammy. Her entrance sets
the bell a-jingling.
She fain would leave the door ajar, the better to
keep guard over her erratic vehicle, but “ Shutta-
doh” commands a colorless Chinese voice.
The matron starts haughtily. She is something
of a despot at home, and her gall rises at Sam’s
tone of authority. It is not to be borne—she
ignores the flat command.
“ L want these shirts by ”
“Shuttadoh,” chant two Chinese voices.
Shaken out of her self-confidence, all ideas of
proper procedure tumbling in ruins about her
ears, the matron this time mechanically obeys.
Having closed the door, she indignantly awaits
Sam Ling’s attention. Of the line of waxy
laundry men not one raises an almond eye. Their
pigtails, coiled into knots, nestle coyly on their
necks or crown their shaven polls in oily glory.
The seats of their cotton pants sag to their knees,
and one and all they, iron the linen of the “Clis-
tian.”
The nearest heathen, having waited to do a
collar to a nicety, condescends to address the
customer.
“Wha’ you wan’?” he inquires, his eyes lifting
no higher than the lady’s top waistcoat button
(did she own such a thing).
She pushes forward her parcel and dodges the
paper flycatcher which grazes her fashionable hat.
“I want these shirts by Thursday night at
latest ”
“Flidav,” interrupts Sam Ling, his eyes again
addressing the non-existent button.
“ Thursday,” I said. “ Thursday at lat ”
“Fliday,” again the inexorable Chinaman, now
unrolling the linen. “Fliday. Wot you bling,
i' i ? two sh’rt, two collah, eh ? Fliday, eight’pen.”
And he hands over a ticket.
“Thursday,” gasps the outraged customer,
spurning the ticket. “ Thursday at latest ”
“’Ere, takee collah—takee sh’rt —me no time—
. too muchee ’ully—you. Go way—go Eulopeyan
laundry you—me plenty customer—gettee out.”
saith the Chinaman.
Gasping, she receives back the shirts to her
bosom. Her lips open.
“G’day! Shuttadoh.” Thus the alien fore-
stalls further argument, and returns to his iron.
As she gets out another matron gets in. The
plaything of misfortune this, as she quickly tells
Sam Ling. For has she not lost her ticket ? And
is not her husband, yea at this very moment,
awaiting his linen without which his appearance
at his late employer’s funeral rites would be
indecorous? She seemingly relies on these exi-
gencies, eked out by her flattering manner of
applying the names “ Jimmie ” and “ Charlie ” to
Sam Ling, to procure her husband’s shirt without
a ticket.
Her optimism leads her astray, however. Half-
way through the first canto the Chinaman inter-
poses.
“ Shuttadoh ! ”
“What’s that, Jimmie?”
“Shuttadoh ! Wha’ you wan’ ?”
With hope somewhat damped she obeys, and
again breathlessly states her case.
“It’s a white shirt, size 16, an’ a turn-over
collar—the Hopetoun or the Dudley, I’m not
sure which—or it might be a Halifax, I never can
tell which is which, all the same shape and all
white ; but anyhow it’s with a 16 shirt, an’ you’ll
have no trouble in finding it—a 16 shirt an’ a turn-
over ”
“Tlicket?” remarks Sam Ling.
“But haven’t I told you I lost my ticket. It
was in my purse and ”
“Nogivee shirt —mus’ bling tlicket —mem bah
bling tlicket, gettee sh’rt all li velly soon—
G’day ! ”
With an air of cold finality he returns to the
ironing of a sun hat and, artistically speaking,
completes its ruin. Originally a fluffy-floppy
creation, it comes through the ordeal by irons a
rigid, razor-edged monstrosity. Looking at it,
the voluble plaything of misfortune feels for its
owner a profound pity akin to pain.
Pleading again for the very necessary shirt she
is told to “ Shuttadoh.”
The door is shut—has been shut for some time.
The inference is that she is to go and close it
after her, and with another look at the proprie-
tor’s relentless outlines, she would depart. But
vivid recollections of the furious wage-earner
at home, surrounded by open drawers, their con-
tents clawed this way and that, his hair on end,
his tongue hanging out, savagely shouting for a
shirt, drive her back to the charge.
Sam Ling listens to her pleadings and her
reproaches without moving a muscle. His subor-
dinates, dwindling down into the vista of steam,
wink not an eyelid. Like clockwork figures they
polish the collars of the Christian.
Other customers come and go, and still she
clamors. Fortunate persons these, armed with
magic passports in the shape of pink tickets.
These enviable ones bear away not only shirt, but
shirts..
Through the brain of the clamorer race half-
formed schemes of violence and plunder, of
bribery, of tears. Alas ! she is too hidebound by
custom to give utterance to her revolutionary
thoughts. She merely rummages her pocket and
disentangles her hat from the fly-catcher by turns.
“ Shuttadoh ! ” The command punctuates her
staggered brain once more as the bell announces
another customer, a little girl. She tenders a
ticket.
“You go elland foh me?” The words drop
like pearls from the lips of the alien. “You go
glocer’s, eh —you bling me message all li, eh ?
Gettee lolly ? ”
Sam shows no resentment at her curt refusal.
“Shuttadoh!” he says, as she staggers away
beneath her load of linen.
Snatching at straws, the unfortunate customer
offers herself as errand girl, providing she is paid
for her services with the shirt —a shirt—any old
shirt.
Even this offer will not break Sam Ling’s iron
rule. He has no use for middle-aged messengers.
“Bling tlicket, me givee sh’rt al li,” he says
flatly. “ Shuttadoh ! ”
A few minutes later, when the hapless one is
home deluged in tears, something between a blue
fit and a whirlwind bursts into the laundry.
It foams at the mouth. Wicked words flow
like burning lava over its lips. Beneath its vest
assertive braces force themselves on the public.
One of its feet wears a homely slipper ; the other
is decorated with a boot.
“Gimme me shirt!” it gibbers, shaking a
doubled fist at the gentle heathen. “Gimme me
blanky shirt, d’yer hear ! Don’t stand there like
a lot of flaming dummies, but gimme me shirt !
If ye don’t gimme me shirt I’ll smash the whole
blanky boiling of you. Gimm ” ——
“ Tlicket,” says Sam Ling, mildly.
“I got no ticket! Th’ blasted ticket’s lost,
burnt, eaten, I tell you. I want me shirt”
“You bling tlicket, or me bling polis-man,” is
the bland reply. “Gettee out! You bleak my
laundly, I gettee you sik mont’ all li’.”
“What! You! A blanky Chinkie to detain
a man’s shirt—to rob a man of his linen ? I’ll
make you pay for this ! I’ll have every bean
out o’ you for this ! You’ll pay through your
yellow neck for this! I’ll teach you to rob a
man
“Shuttadoh.”
“Shut the door be blowed. Shut it yourself.
Shut yer blanky head. Come this side of yer
blanky counter while I put me foot through
you ”
“Here? What’s th’ row; kape quoiit now.”
The maddened shirt-owner turns to find a police-
man at his elbow. “Ye mustn’t create a dis-
tur-r-bance on th’ primises. Phwat’s th’ bother?
Phwat! Won’t ante up yer shirt ! Lost th’
ticket! Well, th’ Choinaman’s in th’ rioghts av
it thin. Ho ! Oi advoise ye not to lay han’s on
’im, else Oi’ll have to arrest ye fer assault. Be
advised now ” (here the constable lays a soothing
finger on the whirlwind’s shoulder). “ Get away
afore a crowd c’lects. Go away and buy a shir-rt
—or borry wan, fer that matther; ’tis all wan t’
me—only git home and get properly dhressed,
rnahn. Look at yer appearance—sure, you’re a
dishgrace. Oi don’t want t’ arrist ye’’(here he
pockets a consideration tendered by Sam Ling).
“Oi wouldn’t hang anny mahn—only go paceful.”
Bump, bump. The customer’s knees are bashed
on the laundry’s narrow confines. Crash ! Swish !
A shirtless citizen hurtles through the doorway.
“ Goodday, John,” says the constable in parting.
“G’ day. Shuttadoh,” answers Sam Ling geni-
ally, and on the pavement a spent whirlwind
mutters, “Well, I’m”——
WEEROONA.


■
FOR
FIVE.
YEARS
Despaired of Being Cured.
ONLY those who suffer, or have suffered, from
piles can imagine the agony which this
ailment causes, and only those who have
tested ZAM-BUK know the relief it brings. Piles
are caused by congestion of the hemorrhoid veins.
ZAM-BUK cools the burning surfaces, stops the
bleeding, softens the walls of the congested veins,
and gives prompt relief. Even in chronic cases,
ZAM-BUK will not be found to fail. It cures when
all else fails. The following case was of five
years’ standing, yet ZAM-BUK proved equal!
Read the details
“ I have been a terrible sufferer from itching and
bleeding piles,” says Mr. J. H. Livingston, an
engineer, employed at the Chilling Works, Young,
N.S.W. “I was troubled with ..them for five long
years. No one knows what agony I suffered, at times
becoming so bad that I was forced to lay up for days
together. I tried every possible so-called cure for
piles, without deriving any lasting benefit. A few of
my friends, knowing what agony I was undergoing,
recommended me to try Zam-Buk, but after using so
many other remedies in vain, I naturally did not place
much confidence in it. Continuing to suffer untold
agony, however, I eventually gave Zam-Buk a trial,
and am happy to say that after a few applications the
wonderful easing and soothing effect was very
comforting. Persevering with Zam-Buk, the piles
went completely away, and I can confidently say that I am now perfectly cured.”
Z>
i
Soothing—Healing—Antiseptic
Zam-Buk is the world’s greatest healer for cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, eczema,
ringworm, piles, barcoo, poisoned wounds, rashes, eruptions of all sorts; while
it never fails to cure piles and ulcers, no matter how long-standing the disease
may be. Zam-Buk is obtainable from all chemists and stores at Is. 6d.
and 3s. 6d. per pot (3s. 6d. size contains nearly four times Is. 6d.), or
post
free for
same
prices
from
The
Zam-
Buk
Co., 39
Pitt
Street,
Sydney.
"RUB IT IN”
Beauty’s Favourite
The article wbicb excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This bas been tbe
ackn o w Sedged and honoured
positioi beld by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
sKin. No otber soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEAR
Matchless for the Complexion
The Lake.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ITS call is Peace—deep sylvan rest,
Unbroken, save by chords
The Mozart touch of Nature, best
In low, harmonic words
Of Music, draws from bough and breast
Of tuneful trees and birds.
Through silvern Morns and golden Noons
And jewelled Nights, ablaze
With sapphire stars and opal moons
Of topaz-tinted rays ;
Prom wooded hills to seaward dunes
It spreads its sparkling ways.
Mount Howe red granite walls uproars
To guard its Northern verge ;
And West, with sharp, forbidding spears,
The grass-tree plains emerge ;
While South and East one faintly hears
The warnings of the surge.
So —shielded round by mount and sea—
O’er scarcely trodden shores,
The Bird of Ancient Mystery
On musing pinion soars,
While yet its beauties virgin be
To Vandal sail or oars.
No ash of tribal camp fires gray,
No cryptic trunk or mound
Whereon the naked savage lay
By vanished fires—are found ;
For ’twas, the dusky grey-beards say,
All times a sacred ground.
Its note is peace ! While Theban kings
In robes of conquest shone;
While lions fierce with flaunting wings
Were carved in Babylon ;
Its autumns and its southern springs,
To woodland harps, danced on.
No song Hellenic fluted o’er
Its calm and placid tide ;
No beacon lights the white dunes wore
Home-coming ships to guide ;
No mourning voice along its shore
Proclaimed how Csesar died.
Mailed legions marched ; green harvest lands
Were reddened as they sped ;
Proud monarchs, mouthing high commands,
Came forth, and backward fled ;
I heir names were written on the sands,
And by the sands o’erspread.
As ever Time’s all-circling blade
In steady downstrokes whirled,
Haunt prophets, standing in the shade
Of frowning temples, hurled
Fierce inspirations forth that made
And yet unmade the World.
Lone sons of Genius, from the Night
Where dead Dust crowds the Urn
Of Nothingness, uprose in bright
Mortality, to burn
Their tapers at the Shrine of Light—
And .... into Night return ;
Their deathless Words o’er years between
Yet loud reverberate;
No Echo fell; in jungles green
The wild wood pigeon sate,
And cooed across that still demesne,
Love greetings to her mate.
O er water clear the black swan plied
His graceful gondolet;
Or slowly from his glossy side
A vagrant white wing set
To sail the Lake’s unrippled tide
In roving amoret.
Peace bideth here. Clear skies, unstained
By smoke of Progress, blue
Its daylight loveliness. Gold-maned,
Apollo’s horses through
Their cloudless sky tracks tramp, unreined
From dew to ev’ning dew :
On slender pipes of reed the West
Wind plays a silken song,
When from their dry, discarded nest
The feathered cygnets throng,
And Summer's sandalled footsteps rest
That cooling marge along.
In iridescent flight swift pass
Winged insects o’er its stream ;
A python windeth through the grass,
His patterned length a-gleam ;
Their shadows mirrored in a glass,
The mottled bitterns dream.
But, when the lonely ranges hide,
Deep-mantled, from the day,
She lays her golden gown aside
And locks her pearls away,
With chilly vassals at her side
To meet the Cloud Kings grey.
Lean Cares that hunt the highways hard
And trodden tracks austere
Of men who hold in most regard
Earth’s goods, and gods revere
Of Might and Gold, the musing bard
May not encounter here.
For velvet Dawn and damask Eve,
And Night with stars o’erstrown.
Afar from harried Hours that grieve
And driven Days agroan,
By this fair lakeside soft achieve
Their pleasant tasks alone.
And at'the Dusk one dimly hears,
In echoes, faint and low
As dew upon the rustling ears,
Or clouds on moonlit snow,
The Voices of the ended years
From crystal depths below.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
Eggleston’s “ Turn.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ~1 TELL,” said the showman, “holds
no fury like a mummer scorned— or
unpaid. He’s as vindictive as a woman
or a Methodist parson, and a little more intelli-
gent. I always make it a point to pay my men as
regular as clockwork now; but when I was
younger I thought you could go on putting’em off
like tailors, and I certainly did manage to run
one or two tours pretty cheap. Of course, the art
of ‘Variety’ is cheapness— pay a living wage to
your star, and beer-money to the rest. Add
oceans of geniality, and you’re all right. But on
this trip I’m going to tell you about, I cut the
beer-money a little too fine, and tried to make the
geniality go the whole way.
“ I had a comedian, the worst one I ever saw.
When he started gagging the audience would
squirm in their seats and hold their hands to their
jaws and lift their feet slowly from the ground,
like a man does when the dentist gets his grip.
Then there vvere the girls—a serio and two song-
and-dance sisters, and these two last were the
toughest things in skirts I ever struck. They
swore vvith an ease and fluency which would have
done credit to a bullock-driver, and their dance
turns were as close to the wind as the law would
allow. My star was a ventriloquist whose life was
a misery to him because his thirst had outrun his
means. Of course there were others, but these
were the real backbone of the show.
“ The ventriloquist had been in the Islands, and
knew the lingo of Tanna and the dances of Santo,
and all the devilry of the heathen from Borneo to
Fiji. And when he was mad about anything he
used to come out with strings of gibberish that
would burn holes in your clothes—you wouldn’t
know what he was saying, but guessing wasn’t
difficult, and not knowing seemed to make it
worse.
“One day he came to me with the comedian
and the sisters, and told me they had decided to
go on strike if I didn’t brass up. It wasn’t, he
said, that they had to go without necessaries; it
was the lack of luxuries that irritated them. Then
the girls chipped in, and in indelicate language in-
formed me that they’d be several things if they
didn’t leave the stage and marry one of the huge
crowd of millionaires and rich squatters who were
dying for their sakes. I calmed ’em after an hour’s
geniality. I showed them the books of the firm,
and gave them each half-a-crown on account.
Then I made the mistake of my life. I ventured
to hint to the ventriloquist, Eggleston, that his
turn didn’t seem much of a draw, and suggested
that he might turn his knowledge of the heathen
in his blindness to some account as a wild man
from Borneo. It would be an easy turn ; all he
had to do would be to gibber and froth about at
the end of a dog-chain. I didn’t mean it humor-
ously, but that was evidently how it appeared to
hnn, for he went purple in the face and waved his
fists about, and then rushed out of the room.
“Later in the day he came to me again, and
said he was sorry he uttered the things he did, and
had I meant what I said about a heathen turn ?
I told him yes, and he swallowed hard, and said
that he’d thought out one that would be the draw
of a lifetime. ‘ All we want is a set of brown tights
each and plenty of burnt cork. The thing’s a
real artistic performance as the Malekula boys do
it. There’ll be four of us—Bunn, the two sisters,
and myself. I’ll rehearse ’em during the
afternoon.’
“ ‘ Get into your tights and show me how it
goes,’ I said; and I tell you it was a great thing.
It had a sort of tune with it, and words that he
hissed through his teeth, and I got quite excited
as he swung through the different movements.
When he stopped, all covered with sweat, he
asked if it would go. Go! It was the best thing
of its kind I’d seen. ‘ls it a war-dance?’ I said,
and he told me no, it was a kind of witch dance,
danced by the medicine men under each full
moon. So we arranged to out a hole in a back-
scene of palms, and fill it with parchment and
light it behind. Then I went out to see the editors
of both the little rags, and wrote out ads. that I
knew would fetch the whole town. Meanwhile,
I have reason to believe that Eggleston rehearsed
the other three.
“The ads. did their work nobly. We had a
full house. And after the interval, when the
comedian had done his worst and the sisters had
rasped the paint off the drop with their top notes,
we set the palm scene and up went the curtain.
Two dark figures came on from the right, and two
from the left. After one wild yell that set four
babies screaming, they began to chant in a low
voice, ‘ Ouranaki oompasalci, rump—a-a-ah, ramp
— a-a-ah ! ’ and went through the sets I had seen
during the afternoon. It woke the hayseeds up ;
they clapped and stamped their feet after each
set, and joined in the song. It was all right until
I noticed they were dancing a set I hadn’t seen.
It was pretty steep; there was a sort of dim sug-
gestion of the danse du ventre , beside a hint of the
dance the tea-house girls do in Yokohama—the
jonkina, I think they call it. I caught Eggleston’s
eye.from the wings, and called to him. ‘Out
that, old chap,’ I said ; ‘it’s a bit too thick for a
country house.’ He grinned back at me, his teeth
showing white against his black face. ‘ Ouranaki
oompasalci, ’ he hissed, and from the audience
came the drone of 'mrnp—a-a-ah, mmp—a-a-ah.’
Then came one more set he hadn’t shown me. I
saw his game now. The damned scoundrel ! I’ve
done my share of knocking about, and I’ve been
in the worst company you could find this side of
Tophet, but that set made me blush. The men
,in the audience opened their mouths, the women
covered their eyes. Then there was a rush for
the stage, and Eggleston sang out, ‘ Cut, girls,’ and
dashed out followed by the others. They’d hid
their duds in a little room at the back, and they
changed there and wereaway before the indignant
tillers of the glebe had finished with the pianist
and me. What they left of me they handed over
to the local bobby. And, as I hadn’t a bean,
Eggleston having taken the door, I spent one
moon in gaol for giving an indecent performance.
One month doesn’t seem a long time, but wait till
you’ve tried it in gaol.
“Eggleston kept out of my range. He married
one of the sisters, and the three of them went
down to the Islands and started growing cocoa-
nuts with some money his wife had left her. I
did hear that he’s so strong down there that the
niggers worship him as a sort of god, and I
understand that not a missionary has dared to
set foot on his island for seven years. The last
one who did the niggers stripped naked, and when
the cruiser came to take him off he was as black
as a boot, and several dusky ladies wept very
sorely at his departure and scrapped with sailors
and bit their legs. Yes. Eggleston understood
the savage, and he was just about fit for a king of
’em ; but if ever I come across him there’ll be a
throne vacant, and don’t you forget it. It was a
dirty trick to play—and after he’d got that half-
crown, too.’’
HASSAN.


THE OLDEST BBxJT
.
m
i
For
over
60 years Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla has been tested and tried.j
It is known as the one great family
medicine. You may travel in any part
of the world—in Spain, China, India,
South America, Egypt, Australia,
Africa, or wherever you will
there you will findthisfam-
ily medicine ready
to give relief.
m
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla—as now made, it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
.
birds,
C.USTARO
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales, when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
cither hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In nee since 1596.
■Vi
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Wearnegßreakspear
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers-
Fireproof Safes,
Strongroom Doors .
Government Contractors.
TIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-tfew
Series. IV"., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Curesthe same
diseases without
inconvenience
-3® BU,SU
•sjnoq 81?
m
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 Georges St., Sydney.
DR* J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
1/I|, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, a nd is the only
specific In CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
SOLARINE METAL POL
HOUSEWIFE'S
m
m
mm
r=l&V
o
fXssSyf
MAKES
THE HOME
BRIGHT.
Little
The Best R<
'' ■
>: &
BY
IDQE LTD.
263 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STEEET, MELBOUE
TOOHEYS LIMITED
:
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
The Way of the World
is usually a shrewd common-sense way, particularly in the
matter of medicinal treatment. While it is always ready
to give a sympathetic hearing to new theories relating to
pathology and medicine, it sticks tenaciously to the good
old established preparations that have been proved to
possess the undoubted virtue of curing. Sixty years ago
public opinion found in BEECHAM’S PILLS a medicine
for every form of bilious and dyspeptic trouble, and though
numerous methods of dealing with digestive disorders
have been advanced since then, it still pins its faith to
the old efficacious medicine. Every year it expresses its
vote of confidence in BEECHAM’S PILLS by buying
over 6,000,000 boxes. Popularity is one of the undoubted
indications of quality. If you are suffering from any
digestive disturbance remember that BEECHAM’S
PILLS are the most popular family medicine, the most
popular because effective cure for digestive disorders in
the world. Thousands have derived benefit from them,
and the likelihood is that you will derive benefit also.
The wisest course, therefore,
IS TO TARE
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold in boxes labelled Is. (56 pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 pills).
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is,
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
Si Britisb-flustralasian
&
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ i* advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied l>y the paper.
No fees. A little patch ©f Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
|HE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
X in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
TH3
WORLD’S CURE^i
FOE
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis, Ip
Influenza, Whooping- m
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
Ottbridge
£ung Tonic
The enormous Success of Owbridge’s
Z<ung Tonic could not have been won,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
k remedy ever known. Beware of Sub «
stitutes ; ask for “ OWBRIDGE
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold ererjnjriiere
In Ixrttle* at Is. lid.,
2s i»d.,4s. fl<L„&ils.
COPTKIGHT,


A Two-Guinea Motor Coat
for 23/-
Opportunity is the watchword of the wise.
Here is a chance to show your wisdom in the
purchase of a first-class Motor Coat. It’s an
occasion which may never occur again, and as
the demand is certain to exceed the supply, you
should waste no time in placing your order.
The Coats are proofed with Olive,. White,
or Black Rubber—stylish, comfortable and
wet resisting. Coats that will be a pleasure
to use on your motor tours or about the city.
The regular prices are 35/- to 45/-, but by
buying while the Re-building Sale is on you
can choose yours at 23/- to 25/-
If you order by post, just quote your height and
chest measurement. We’ll ensure a good fit and
your complete satisfaction.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“The Beat House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
PETROL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SET
FOR
&
s
$
s
r
&
a?
*
X'
V
SOLE ACENT,
T. K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Waters
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
,°x
Write for
V B”
<
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
Rider.
The bulletin post cards—now
Series, IV,. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
ENGINE
(PORTABLE)
DOES THE WORK ECONOMICALLY AND WELL.
ic for smoothness of working and great regularity of speed, the governor having perfect control
of the Engine at all times. Finish and Workmanship U
ALSO
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing
Machinery. Agents in N.S.W.
for Biackstone Oil Engines.
ACENTS:
MOFFAT-VIRTUE Ltd.,
5& 7 Bent Street, Sydney, N. S, W.
Also at 14- CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A., and MARGARET STREET, TOOWOOMBA, Q.
Agents in N.S.W. for Kilgour
Acetylene Generators. Sole
Agents for Oil Sheep Dip.
No. 3.
Specialities: FERRANTI, LI?- SYDNEY.
|H pA HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE : E. S. <& A . Bank Chambers, George Street .
w SWITCH GEAR, High and Low Tension MEASURING INSTRUMENTS.
We do Business that brings Repeat Orders. Send us your Inquiries.
NOTES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LIMITED, 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
and at MELBOURNE, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, and PERTH.
ELECTRIC CRI NEC.
-i
m - m
ur.
I
mm
swEwtff^nscHtf!'
lA
3- or 4-Side Planers, Thicknessers,
Breaking=Down Frames,
Circular, Band and Pendulum Saws,
Chain Mortising Machines.
Wood Turners’ Lathes.
40-42 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
172 WILLIAM ST., MELBOURNE
Machinery Merchants
it Elec'tricai Engineers.
Large Stocks kept of the Latest Types of Engineering
and Woodworking Machinery.
COriPLETE EQUIPMENT of FACTORIES.
LARGE STOCKS of ELECTRICAL MACHINERY.
Sta&ke,
s>Jney;s
J
Lathes, Drilling, Milling and Grinding
Machines, Tinsmiths’ Machinery,
Acetylene Gas Plants, Iron and Wood
Split Pulleys.
SUCTION GAS PRODUCER
t &r, , __ - •
Knowles Steam Pumps.
Improved Designs for Every Service.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES-
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
light. MINE candles. light
A GOOD MINE CANDLE is one that burns brightly and steadily without spitting or wasting.
These conditions are met in our SPECIAL MINE CANDLES:
11 CAM Brand- a Hard Wax Candle of Best Quality ; “TRUCKER” —a Good, Serviceable, Cheap Candle*
One large user says “ After long experience I can confidently recommend these Candles to mine managers
TRY A SAMPLE BOX, AND YOU WILL BE CONVINCED OF THEIR VALUE.
N. GUTIiRIDGE Ltd., 265 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
