

“DEWARS
Distillers
to
'OS
By Appointment
H.M.The Kino.
WHISKY.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors 1 Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
KXrr.OSIVKs, I'.riI.PIOUS and OK MORA L IRON.MUNGKHY. NKW AND SECONDHAND I'KANTS always aVA I PA lUiIO.
.SxriJdlc &• WSt
SOUi AGENTS FOR
The “Ruston”
Suction Gas Plant.
, mu Wild Vat Coin tun.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
Wmir ANI)
I2M Williani Street, Melbourne,
QBAmy,
fiadleg sQri
■PIONEER
LEATHER |
tHV
kLTIN GxlTlil!!
BELT fiUAR.' N I E.f O.
& Son Ltd,, 117 York St», Sydney
Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
A Paying Investment
. ron
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks-Morse F.ngine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK
FOR TERMS AN!) PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARINC
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
Qfi* out. /tfa/Afru) c, -a* i%t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
Accumulators and Dry Cells for Ignition Purposes.
W» always keep in stock large supplies of those wanted Electrical Accessories. We repair and re-charge Accumulators.
and stock all Electrical Keauisites. Prices on application.
the: silvrrtown rubber co.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
dbihk LAGER beer
FOR THE
DEAF!
PATENT POCKET NEARING TUBE.
By means of this scientific Instrument most sufferers from Deafness will be able to hear any
ordinary conversation, besides affording free movement of the head and hands.
To any address In Australasia we will forward our instrument on trial. Por Sydney and
suburbs it can be inspected and tried at the Office of
THE. HEARING TUBE CO.,
Telephone, City 417. De Mestre Lane No. I, off .108 tlcorge Street, SYDNEY.
J
HANSEN’S
malthoid, In the
opinion of lending arehi-
*n«l builders, has
no equal.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
MALTHOID is a per-
fect f roofing that will
neither leak, crack, nor
rust.
hopper waggons.
ROAD-MAKINC plants
a SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
c. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA water
HCLIDON SPA has been tbe corner-
stone of recuperation to many.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
V01.30.—N0. 1516.]
[Thursday, March 4, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


FOR BOOKS ON EVERY TRADE, INDUSTRY, AND PROFESSION SEND TO
George Robertson & Co- Prop. Ltd
•9
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY, f
Allen, H., Modern Power Gas Producer Practice, 7s, p. Bd.
Bailey, R. D., The Brewer’s Analyst, illus., 15s, pos* lOd.
Brachvogel’s, Indusorftd Alcohol, Manufacture and Uses,
20s, postage Is 3d.
Burton, F. G., Commercial Management of Engineering
Works, 15s, postage 9d.
De tries, D., Calculation of Change Wheels for Lathes,
8s Cd, postage 4d.
Dowson & Larter, Producer Gas, 2hd ed., 12s 6d, post Bd.
Duncan & Penman, Electrical Equipment of Collieries.
12s Bd, postage 9d.
Poster’s Electrical Engineers’ Pocket Book, sth ed.. 24s
postage Is.
Henley’s Eecipes, Formulas and Processes, 15s, post Is 3d.
Ingle, H., Elem. Agricultural Chemistry, 5s 6d, post 6d.
Koester, F., Steam-Electri'c Power Plants, 255, post is fid.
Longridge, O. 0., Gold Dredging, 265, postage Is 6d.
Peter’s Principles of Copper Smelting, 265, postage Is 3d.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
AN IDEAL REMEDY
kUSTRAbAN
MEOKAL 6MET7t*SKYS>
C. HUDSON;
Wj*mMummmiamMiim\immiiiMWiiitimtt<
■mm?:-.
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.” s
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when take*
after food. I l
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
The RED PAGE
The Unreality of Everything
“jVTOW for a little philosophy. 0:
11) course the Universe does noi
exist, matter is for ever to us
inexplicable, and time and space are
phantasms of our own human creating.
These commonplaces of philosophy, thus
glibly enunciated, sound somewhat insane
to the average matter-of-fact mind. It
can do no harm to examine our postulates.
In Personalism, Borden P. Bowne (Con-
stable) analyses the current fallacies of
belief in the real existence of the Uni-
verse. By means of an elaborate inquiry
into the problem of knowledge, he shows
that we know nothing of the world except
by the experiences of our senses. There
may or may not be a reality behind those
indications of vision, hearing, touch and
the other senses. All we are sure of is
that our senses are affected by certain
stimuli. Prom these sense-experiences
w© build up an imaginary universe.
Bowne shows, further, that in order to
postulate this outside world we must first
build up that world in our own minds:
No one can ever perceive any world but
the one he makes. I can perceive another’s
thought only on condition that I think that
thought; and the thought so far as I think
it can never be other than mine. I may have
a sure conviction in connection with it that
it reproduces the content of another’s
thought, but it can exist for me only as it
becomes my own thought, the' product of my
own thinking. In the same way, and with
equal evidence, the world I perceive is the
world I construct.
Prom this commonplace of philosophy
Bowne proceeds to argue that there is
necessarily a mind at the other end of
these sense-experiences of ours. In
order to decipher an inscription it is
necessary for us that the inscription must
have a rational meaning :
The human mind must have the key in
itself, but there must also be an objective
order and fixed meaning as the presupposi-
tion of interpretation. When this thought
is carried out, it implies an objective rational
order parallel to our subjective thinking.
As speech implies a mind at both ends of
the process, so knowledge under our human
conditions equally implies a mind at both
ends. So the affections of sense become
knowledge only as they are the media for
expressing and transmitting thought beyond
them.
Thus we are compelled to plant behind
the phenomenal system, beyond our
sensations, a supreme intelligence which
manifests its thought through it.
exist then only for and
through our own intelligence of them.
Many things which we suppose exist
apart from intelligence would really dis-
appear if intelligence were away :
Conceive a musical symphony. At first
sight we might say the symphony exists in
space and time. It is enclosed within the
walls of the room, and lies between certain
temporal limits, and therefore has temporal
and spatial existence. That, however, is
superficial; for the symphony, apart from
the synthetic and unifying action of intelli-
gence, really cannot exist in any assignable
sense. It exists, as anything articulate and
intelligible, only for the composer and per-
former on the one hand, and for the audi-
ence on the other. As something in space
and time it would consist of air waves
mutually external and without unity or con-
nection. The corresponding sounds are also
mutually external as spatial or temporal
events. If, then, one were bent on finding
the symphony within the walls of the room,
and should proceed to chase the mutually
external waves in time back and forth
throughout the hall and the time of playing,
he would soon become aware that the sym-
phony, apart from the unifying action of
consciousness which unites the many and
successive into one, would be something
strictly non-existent for intelligence. How-
ever real the waves or the sounds
may be in themselves, it is not
until they are united in a consciousness
which grasps and unifies them all in one
complex musical apprehension that the
symphony exists or can exist.
Thus intelligence appears as the
supreme condition of the existence of
those things which seem to us indepen-
dent of all intelligence. Sensations, then,
are the expression of ideas—else we could
not have any ideas about them. And as
the ideas by which things are constituted
are independent of us, there must be a
supreme intelligence behind the things
which makes them the bearer or expres-
sion of the ideas. We cannot understand
noises unless they are informed with
thought, and they can be informed with
thought only as there is a thinker at the
other end.
Bowne develops the theory of the
non-existence of the universe by pointing
out that we ourselves are invisible :
The physical organism is only an instru-
ment for expressing and manifesting the
inner life, but the living self is never seen.
. . . We are as formless and invisible as God
Himself, and that not merely in the sense of
being out of sight, but also in the sense of
not lying within the sphere of visibility in
any way. What is the shape of the spirit ?
or what the length and breadth of the soul ?
These questions reveal the absurdity of the
notion without criticism.
So the most familiar events have their
key and meaning only in the invisible.
A kiss described in anatomical terms of
the points of contact and muscles involved
would not explain very much about a kiss.
And what could be more absurd than a
prayer described in physical terms of
noise and attitude, apart from the re-
ligious meaning ? So also the beauty of
your best girl, detailed in anatomical
terms, would not exactly stimulate you.
You must depend upon the invisible
personal life behind that beauty. Also
literature. It does not exist in space or
time or books or libraries or upon this
page. It exists solely in the invisible
and non-spatial world of ideas and con-
sciousness. All that the eye can see on
this page is black marks on vilely pink
paper. You construct within your own
mind all the literature—if any —there is
in it.
Furthermore, history.. Our human
history never existed in space :
If some visitor from Mars should come to
the earth and look at all that goes on in
space in connection with human beings, he
would never get a hint of its real significance.
He would be confined simply to integrations
and dissipations of matter and motion. He
could describe the masses and groupings of
material things, but in all this he would get
no suggestion of the inner life which gives
significance to it all.
Finally, Government. Government
does not exist in Melbourne. It is r a
relation of invisible personal wills. So
wars have not existed in space, and real
battlefields are in the unseen. They are
the conflicts of ideas, of aspirations, and
all the fighting that ever took place in
space was but a symbol and expression of
the inner unpicturable strife.
Love and hate, desire and aspiration,
exaltation and depression, the whole con-
tents of human life, are invisible, and the
spatial has only symbolical significance for
the deeper life behind it.
So the great world of reality is not
located in space, but in our own con-
sciousness. And Bowne’s ingenious argu-
ment, suggests that at the other end of
our sense impressions there must be a
supreme intelligence. Put graphically,
we might say that a chunk of road-metal
is the telephone wire that conveys to our
mind some part of the meaning of the
mind behind that chunk. When a
human mind wishes to convey his mean-
ing, it is necessary for him to impart an
impetus and a direction to that piece of
road-metal, and—if his aim is good—you
grasp his meaning. But for the supreme
intelligence it is not necessary even to
hurl the brick. The supreme intelligence
merely hurls at us the phenomena that it
gives to the brick—if, of course, there
really is a brick. But we are getting
metaphysical, foggy. Better stop ....
Magazine Verse
AN IRISH MOTHER.
A wee slip drawin’ water,
Me ould man at the plough,
No grown-up son nor daughter,
That’s the wa,y we’re farmin’ now.
“ No work and little pleasure ”
Was the cry before they wint,
Now they’re gettin’ both full measure,
And I ought to be contint.
Great wages men is givin’
In that land beyond the say,
But it : s lonely—lonely livin’
Whin the childher is away.
Oh, the baby in the cradle,
Blue eyes and curlin’ hair,
God knows I’d give a gra’dle
To have little Petlier there.
No doubt he’d find it funny,
Lying here upon me arm,
Him that’s earning the good money
On a Californy farm.
Six pounds it was, or sivin,
He sent last quarter day,
But it’s lonely—lonely livin’
When the childher is away.
God is good—no, better;
And the Divil might be worse,
Each month there comes a letter
Bringing somethin’ for the purse.
And the old man’s heart rejoices
Whin I read they’re doin’ fine ;
But it’s oh ! to hear their voices
And to feel their hands in mine.
To see the cattle driven,
And the young ones makin’ hay,
’Tis the lonely land to live in,
Whin the childher are away.
Whin the shaddas do be failin’
On the ould man there an’ me,
’Tis hard to keep from callin’ —
“ Come in, childher, to yer tea.”
I can almost see them cornin’ —
Mary, Kate, an’ little Con,
Och 1 but I’m the foolish woman—
Sure they’re all grown up an’ gone.
That our sins may be forgivin,
An’ not wan go asthray—
I doubt I’d stay in Hivin
If them childher was away.
Percy French (in “ The Nation*).
THE GRASS.
Around the world once more your banners sweep,
O thou triumphant legion of the grass !
You shake the hill and valley as you pass ;
Across the rivers and the seas you leap.
The music of your marching wakes from sleep
The forest and the field and the morass.
And in thy fragrant train, a starry mass,
The blossoms all like constellations creep.
What power is thine, O army of sweet peace !
To you at last all victories belong ;
All battlefields are thine beneath the sun ;
To every sorrow thou dost bring surcease.
What vanquished empire but hath heard thy
song?
Answer, 0 Egypt; answer, Babylon !
Edward Wilbur Mason (in “The Smart Set”).
THE SUN-DIAL.
On the sun-dial in the garden
The great sun keeps the time;
A faint, small moving shadow,
And we know the worlds are in rime !
And if once that shadow should falter
By the space of a child’s eyelash—
The seas would devour the mountains,
And the stars together crash.
Richard Watson Gilder (in “ The Atlantic”).
MARKET.
I went to market yesterday,
And it is like a Fair
Of everything you like to see 5
But nothing Live is there.
The Pigeons, hanging up to eat,—■
And Rabbits, by their little feet 1 —
And*no one seemed to care.
And there were Fishes out in rows,
Bright ones of every kind ;
And some were Pink, and Silver too j
But all of them were blind.—
Yes, everything you want to touch :
It would not make you happy, much }—
But no one seemed to mind.
And oh, I saw a Lovely Deer !*—
Only Its eyes were blurred.
And hanging by It, very near,
A beautiful great Bird ;
So I could smooth his feathers through.
And kiss them (very softly) too. —
And oh, he never stirred !
Josephine P. Peabody (in “ Harper's ").
MOTHERHOOD.
The night throbs on ; O, let me pray, dear lad I
Crush off his name a moment from my mouth.
To Thee my eyes would turn, but they go back,
Back to my arm beside me, where he lay—
So little. Lord, so little and so warm !
I.cannot think that Thou hadst need of him 1
He was so little, Lord, he cannot sing,
He cannot praise Thee; all.his life had learned
Was to hold fast my kisses in the night.
Give him to me—he is not happy there !
He had not felt this life ; his lovely eyes
Just knew me for his mother, and he died.
Hast Thou an angel there to mother him ?
I say he loves me best —if he forgets,
If Thou allow it that'my child forgets
And runs not out to meet me when I come—
What are my curses to Thee ? Thou hast heard
The curse of Abel’s mother, and since then
We have not ceased to threaten at Thy throne,
To threat and pray Thee that Thou hold them
still
In memory of us.
See Thou tend him well,
Thou God of all the mothers. If he lack
One of his kisses—ah, my heart,, my heart,
Do angels kiss in Heaven ? Give him back !
Forgive me, Lord, but I am sick with grief
And tired of tears and cold to comforting.
Thou art wise, I know, and tender, aye, and good,
Thou hast my child, and he is safe in Thee,
And I believe —
Ah, God, my child shall go
Orphaned among the angels ! All alone.
So little and alone ! He knows not Thee,
He only knows his mother —give him back.
Josephine Dodge Daskam (in “Scribners”).
The Wreck of the "Mulga Queen”
There is ample evidence in The Log of a
Sailorman (Century Press, London) that
W. Brooke has found his vocation. This is
the realistic record of a man’s life at sea, the
autobiography of a boy who rose to be a cap-
tain, with many capital yarns interspersed.
Brooke has the writer’s instinct, and as he
has resigned his command to take a position
on a colonial newspaper, he should have the
opportunity to develop his gift. He has
knocked round the world, and his adventu-
rous experiences are naively and interestingly
told. For the real romance, the reader need
not go further than the story of the engineer
McLeod, now the owner of an engineering
factory in Melbourne. McLeod was en-
gineer on “La Caldera,” a Chilian gun-
boat, which managed to escape, badly-
damaged, from the fight near Iquique when
the revolutionary fleet defeated the warships
of Balmaceda. “La Caldera ” steamed
northward with her commander and many of
her crew killed, but with engines in-
tact. The crew deserted as soon as
they got the gunboat near the shore.
McLeod, the last to leave, fell as he was
leaving, and was stunned. The Chilians did
not wait for him, and on McLeod recovering
he found himself with a gunboat of his own.
An insurgent cruiser sent a crew of eight
men to take command of her. McLeod hid,
and the vessel was got under weigh by
the prize crew. In the darkness of
that night MoLeod, armed with a revol-
ver, single-handed dealt with the deck
hands. He stunned two of them and shut up
two others in the wheelroom. Then he forced
the crew of the engine-room into the
shaft tunnel and fastened them in. Next,
by the exhibition of his revolver, he made
the wheel-man keep the course he had set
him, and single-handed—a terrific task—he
worked the engines, ultimately arriving at
Callao. Then he left his prize in a fisher-
man’s boat, came alongside Browne’s vessel,
which was at that moment heaving up her
anchors, and got back to America. This
yarn is only one of the adventures that hap-
pened to McLeod. Among other items in
his strenuous life, he was shanghaied by an
enemy, and actually got to shore again in
idle crimp's boat, leaving the crimp, stunned,
in his place. The captain took his new sailor
along with enthusiasm.
\l?
In order to see Australia, Brooke, with a
deep-sea captain’s certificate, shipped as a
deck-hand on a Murray river boat, and his
adventures in that trade are as humorous as
a yarn by Jacobs. The “ Mulga Queen”
ran on a sandbank, and the Australian crew,
of rouseabouts quietly rolled up their swags
and took the track. It appeared, in Brooke’s
words, that the bottom was out of the
“ Mulga Queen.”
“ She’s been crawling along on this sand-
bank, I daresay, for half a mile or so,
dropping galvanised iron out of herself, like
a turtle laying eggs. There isn’t a case of
iron left. And if she’d kept going, she’d
have ground herself away till there was only
the deck left. There isn’t much more than
that as it is. ... Let us go ashore and camp
with the rouseabouts.”
So the captain and Brooke waded, ashore
and took to the track, the captain’s opinion
being that “ ther days of steamboatin’ in ther
Darlin’ are about done.”
Brooke should find a profitable source of
income in turning his varied experiences into
fiction. He has the I’ealism, the narrative
ease, the sense of comedy.
A Notable Book
Hugh McOrae’s book of poems (edition de
luxe at a guinea), now in the press, is to
be a unique work. McCrae is the most
original singer in Australia to-day ; and he
voices the new note. He regards the world
with an unconventional eye, his technique
is admirable, and he revives the charm
and mystery of antiquity with as-
tonishing verve. Norman Lindsay has
done 20 illustrations for the book (18 of
them are auto-lithographs), and they repre-
sent Australia’s great black-and-white artist
at his best. From the standpoints of form,
printing, and artistic and literary quality the
new edition will rise above anything hitherto
attempted in Australian publications. As
the edition is limited to 130 Copies, intend-
ing buyers should hurry with their -sub-
scriptions.


■
(asF&abs*
The Montrose Dining- Room Suite, No. 46, comprising Couch, Lady’s and Gentleman’s Easy Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, upholstered in best Saddlebags and Utrecht Velvet
spring seated, heavy, well-carved frames, finished Walnut color ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... JEI2 17s. 6d!
wm
The Seymour Dining- Room Suite, No. 47, comprising Couch,
2 large Easy Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, upholstered seats and
hacks, best spring seats, castors to all the Chairs, frames of solid
Tasmanian Walnut, handsomely carved. Upholstered in best
Pegramoid Leather, .£l4: 12s. 6d.
Upholstered in Saddlebags and Utrecht Velvet, £l6 10s.
i V
Dming- Room Suite, No. 48, comprising Couch, 2 large Easjo
Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, spring seats, upholstered backs,
castors to all the Chairs, frames of solid Tasmanian Walnut,
richly carved. Upholstered in best Saddlebags and Utrecht
Velvet, £l7 18s. 6d.
Upholstered in best Pegamoid Leather, .£l6 ss.
Many other styles are illustrated in our GUIDE TO
FURNISHING. Write for a copy, posted free on
application, and reap the full benefit of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
r.
The Wo r , ln§ l? n Di^ ng “ Ro ° m I S V i *?’ No - 45 - comprising Couch, Lady’s and Gentleman’s Easy Chairs and 6 Ordinary Chairs, upholstered' in best American Duck, spring-seated, button
p aclts, well carved frames, finished Walnut color ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... jgg i s g
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


B
WIMCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.
SYDJVEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd,
s y id nxr 33
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
AH Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES. TALLOW and MAUSUPTAT STTfKTS
to weighh l 7 classing and b H ° Ur ° f high i y effi « ient EXPERTS, who pav special attention
d dlBp ° Sln^ t e Ve u'-’ b r st advanta n e ' Account Sales rendered prompilv.
their S tl °T I o eS , are ° iTk Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
r gra,n - ull particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER”
Passenger Agents for P. & O. S.N. Co.’s Royal Mail Steamers.
Will Andrade -»■ BOOKS-
Freemasonry
Explained,
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
Complete, 1/-
Post Free, 1/3.
Tommy Burns’ Scientific
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dit.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Ready-made
Speeches. and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride of the First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. How to
Mesmerise, 1 /-. Every
Man His Own' Builder,
1/6. Letter “Writer, 1/-.
Lover’s Guide, 1/3.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- afc
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted. 2/-
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic-. Price 6d. : post
free, Bd.
Tiir Arovi? Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic 2/6
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
■a) r
N
1/
35S
T:
fj
Black Powder Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL”
Hard, Strong, Even Shooters,
Always Sure Fire,
The Hunter’s Favorite, Because
They Always Get The Game,
For Sale Everywhere.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MFBTITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
*l «'
b t^
CO«S«S
w :\
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
F r.n. 8/ || to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in. procuring the correct
style write to :
i. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
»> » „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Begular Use.
DINNER) RDS
'MAGNESIA
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
nr Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists shouM visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere m Australia.
Executive Bixiiaings. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
A GREAT SUFFERER
Tried Many Medicines.
“ There is no question of greater importance to a
community than health,” said Mr. George Alfred
Willis, of No. 7 Bourke Street, Zetland, when re-
cently engaged in conversation with a reporter,
“ for when that is lost matters remain at a stand-
still pending its recovery. That was my experi-
ence, at all events,” he continued, “for when I
was taken ill some time back, I was not able to
get along at all.”
“Was your work of a laborious nature, Mr.
Willis?”
“ Carpentering—not the easiest job on earth,
you know; but if it had been quill driving it would
have been all the same to me,- as I had no energy
whatever. As a matter of fact, I was confined
to my bed, and things looked very blue, for I was
getting no assistance from the physic I was taking,
and it seemed to me that I was a done man. I
had read of Clements Tonic, and asked if I would
give myself a last chance with that remedy. A
relative who had used it said ‘ yes,’ very emphati-
cally, and gave me her reasons.”
“You were in such straits that you were willing
to accept almost any advice, I suppose? ”
“Well, you see, there was scarcely anything
left for me to take, and as all other remedies had
proved futile, what was the good of going back to
them ? So I soon got some Clements Tonic, and
what a God-send it was, too. I was just about as
low as I could be, not having been outside the
house for a fortnight, and if it hadn’t been that
Clements Tonic was taken just in the nick of time
my ailments may have taken such a hold on my
system as to have defied all efforts at eradication. I
think it was pleurisy that had seized me, and, oh !
what a terrible cough I had—so painful and so
exhausting, that each bout aggravated my feeble-
ness. A great deal of phlegm came away, and one
would almost think I had consumption, to judge
by the pallor of my cheeks and the shrunken
state of my body. The pains in my lungs were
very acute, making me dread the necessity of
drawing rnv breath, as each time I did, asensation
like a knife cutting made me writhe in agony. It
was not a life I cared to cling to, believe me,
for one would be far better off dead, and out of the
world altogether, than linger in such misery.”
What kind of nourishment were you in the
habit of talcing ? ”
“ I was existing on cereal foods, and even that
there was a difficulty in digesting. Always head-
aches in the mornings, a nasty fur roofing my
mouth , which made me continue washing it during
the night, the dryness, too, being troublesome ;
and at least two mornings in the week I would
find myself vomiting. I was pitifully nervous and
shaky, and my mind was not at ease, either day
or night. I could not help thinking that some
great trouble was hanging over my head, threat-
emng, like the sword of Damocles, to descend
with destruction at any moment, and to tell you
the plain truth, my life was a burden to me.”
“Were you long using Clements Tonic before
you felt any benefit ? ”
Some little time passed before I noticed
an improvement, but then you must remem-
ber the circumstances—how thoroughly broken
down X was, and I think the marvel is
that I pulled round so well. But Clements
lonic kept building me up, and restoring
my internal organs to a healthy state, until I was
as sound as possible. What a remarkable thing
Clements Tonic is to make a person eat—wliv,
even on the hottest days it gave me a good
appetite, and such a splendid remedy for nervous-
ness and insomnia, too. ITor years I had suffered
from giddiness in a bad form. If I stooped to lace
my boots or anything, when I rose up I’d seem to
go round like a top, and even when out walking
I’d give a sudden reel occasionally, like a man who
had been indulging in something stronger than
lemonade.”
“ Do you get those sensations now ? ”
“No; they have quite left me, thanks to
Clements Tonic, and I have nothing to thank but
that medicine for ridding me of my cough, and
ultimately restoring me to the very soundest
health. So now you can publish these facts
broadcast.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, GEORGE ALFRED WILLIS, of 7 Bourke Street, Zet-
land, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, this twenty-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me,
5]
WILLIAM ALLEN. J.P.


* •
The Best
Cough Drops
Are Drops
rf Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
Mger's
'Cherrif Sectoral
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing, relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
in the bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure ycu get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
?repared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
e „ d ,? 8 !^ tCh dir | ct from oar Coventry factory
Wg“Bt gradeM E n AS ayß ' aPPr ° Xal ' 0111
Coventry Flyers
msn“f 5 n “ fa o‘nrers- prices.
MODEM cC3mW to ££&
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
rree to any port in the World.
, ACTIVE AGENTS S£“'&s®B;
on sample machine. special Offer
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ Dept . 280 LIVERPOOL.
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
Horlick’s
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute'
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute/
and requires no cooking.
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
Horlick's Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Betail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MALTED MILK Ltd., Slough, Bucks,, Eng.
UNDEVELOPED
J
n
\
r.ii
WOMEN
Are your cheeks sunken and
hollow ? Have you deep
lines around your mouth and
eyes? Are your arms thin
and scrawny, and is your
chest flat and your bosom
undeveloped ? Do your
shoulder blades make even-
ing- dress almost a tragedy ?
Are you so thin that your
clothes merely hang- on you ?
Dr. FALLIERE'S
"Flesh-Food”
is the remedy you require.
“ Flesh-Food ” is a scientific
preparation, a medicated
• , . " , food, put up in tablet form,
and pleasant to take. It corrects those functions
that, dormant, are keeping you thin. It is a
natural tissue builder, and a perfect bust developer.
It will add inches to your measurements, and will
increase your weight on an average of about
five pounds a week. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and Free Book, or call.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD" CO.
DEPT, Si
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
TF you don’t read THE LONE HAND vou
i£^ a an a L keeP - CUrre , nt with Australian Art,
stoS.n? a o d • V J ° u,n miss many brilliant
?12s :Che oi h en(l ln a y ear ’ s subscription
to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE -OF SUBSTITUTES. ' _
Always ask for “bONNINGTOIM’S" I/O Ci 2/0#
CONGO ROOFING
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
in compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely,
outlast corrugated iron and being a non-
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.”
Send for free samples to any of the addresses below—
l\l anujaclured ly BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co-,
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
Will
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.,
Sydney; John Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne; George Wills
& Co., Brisbane; Millar’s
Karri Jarrah Co., Perth,
West Australia.
v' iti
ivß s v
<\€!k
rff
r nfw' rr
r rfs
fIOCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected'by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price .£1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeous from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments
Watches, Jewellery, Etc, 2 \Q Q uee „ S t., Brisbane
fi
O
n
Is your Liver right ?
It’s one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kdls enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle’s Antibilious Pill, for Cockle’s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
and still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.
KL
Q
'Co
PILLS
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
f*»*caE® Medals.
i
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.otting Series.
Works s eg sr , ffTrßnra^» , »E*.?vs J Eraarlstwci
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
(N
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
MOSQUITOES.
Agents—Elliott Bros.
BOTTLES, 1/. & 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
ydnoyj Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Man that Never Cared.
When I dream of the lovers that sought my side,
The men who were false or true,
When I count them over and weigh their worth,
The sweethearts that once I knew,
There was one—just one—who touched my heart
As never the rest had dared,
There’s only one whom I can’t forget—
The man who never cared.
One is away with his bride to-day, ’
And one in the West alone,
And one has his memory written short,
Three lines, on a granite stone.
Ihere s one I hated and one I wed,
And I know how they all have fared,
But where is the one I loved the best,
The man who never cared ?
The swift years come and the swift years go,
And I’m happy enough—almost;
But though honor and pride might well deride
The troublesome unlaid ghost,
It’s oh ! for a thrill through the dull grey days
Of the gladness he never shared,
I’d give the world for a sight again
Of the man who never cared.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
The Lights Across the Bay.
They shine like stars reflected in
A lily-rimmed lagoon,
What time the far-off breakers din
A world-old ocean tune.
Now hidden by the low-hung smoke,
Now dimmed by salted spray,
Like human things they gasp and choke-
The lights across the bay.
They twinkle round the shallow seas,
And 0 ! my being thrills,
Because they wake old memories
Of camp-fires in the hills.
The purple hills that are so near,
And yet so far away ;
They gleam in Mem’ry’s chandelier—
The lights across the bay !
Last night a dark fog drifted, and
I saw no lights at all,
But booming, booming on the land
I heard the breakers fall.
The flashing billows twirled and hissed
Like ocean snakes at play,
And, oh ! I missed—l sadly missed—
The lights across the bay.
I treasure them as faithful friends,
For thro* my study door
Their mellow phosphorescence wends
And shimmers on the floor.
And so to-night I’ll watch for .them,
Bright jewels in the gay
Old harbor’s flashing diadem— «
The lights across the bay.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
Constancy.
The world grows old,
So pedants say,
And men and manners
Both decay;
And Time in lovers
Worketh change,
So that their love
Grows cold and strange.
It is a law
We must abide,
Who are but bubbles
On the tide.
And so perchance
I’ll not be true
When Time has worked
His will to you.
For in ten years,
As you’ll agree,
Naught may be left
Of present me.
The love and fancy
Well may go
That led my heart
To love you so ;
And I who now
Your charms adore,
May see the charm
Of them no more.
Grim, staid, and stern,
Perhaps, and stout,
Some other sort
I’ll care about.
And you will scarce
Remain as now—
All things must change—
And yet, I vow
For all the change
In those days far,
I’ll love the woman
That you are.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


HPJE RLI c||
/.
n
o
£
)
\
BVi
▲
c.
i/t
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW
GOOD TASTE
A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of worKing out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend.
The sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not cracH
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Sydney Showrooms-
-56 PITT ST.
Postal Address
Box 474. G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showroom**
243 COLLINS ST.
TJie*Ektsen ce qf'Vi taTli ty
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
SUPPORTS ___ ————^MILLIONS
€
IC.
t.
f
Ride only
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free.
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,'
England.
Mi
km
I I'l lli.ifD
i i i i iniTiij BiE
Ira ii
mß-
mmm
Milling
WEBB
iJEffl!
1
HOTEL
HETROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay,
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
DOES NOT BITE THE TONGUE.
PERFECTION
THE
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plug's, or Cut TJp in Tins, 2ozs. and 4ozs.
I English Watches
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889.
London IBGZ. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
W s
ROTHERHAMS
LON DOM
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
fl CEHTIFICHTE GIVEN
WITH EHCH WATCH. |
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free^
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P'ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
USE
WELSBACH
MANTLES
I
ss
e
a
i
*
l *x
o
& {O.
& Brisbane
Pi#! If
>
sm
0-
m
AVENARIUS
not only stops
white ants, but
is a wonderful
protector of the
timber in ships
and boats. It
also extermi=
nates insects
in nurseries,
stables, cow=
sheds and
barns.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Po s t as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1516.
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 1909.
PICIOB 6d
THE LOAN AND THE LADDER.
New South Wales asked Cohen last week for £1,500,000, but only £600,000 was subscribed. The loan was, however, underwritten, at a cost
of 1¼ per cent., plus commission. One way and another, the little transaction will cost New South Wales about £60,000.
THE FAT MAN: “Little boy, you’ve picked all the fruit that you can reach. There’s still a bit at the top,
but you’ll have to hire my ladder to get it.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co:. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Of ice. Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
'to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Jlotr to Address l etters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
f and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
'methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
mints, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
'lrut to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
'anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bulletin,” is the proper
■superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
"officials. The person may not be there; the official
•i always is.
Special Tint ice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column• all contri-
butions submilted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tm columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or .Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
■for return it •will be understood that the copy is to be
■destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
•return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
■ desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under- ■
■stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amu ton rx in 111 tic/.- and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for Dinner reproduction, or
ant/ interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each maiTrfrom Messrs. Gordon and
(yotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, Ilf High Ilolborn, London, IB.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetoivn;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and'others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth ;■■ 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
•Caple and Co., Statfip.ners.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
jEgvi't.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents' Sj>eeial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6%in. x Van.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Zfe'ollei&Ti.
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 1909.
N. S. WALES ASKS FOR BREAD AND
GETS A BRICK.
And the chances are that the brick will do it more
good than the bread would have done. Twad-
dell, the man who was thrown out of the N. S.
Wales Treasury, on the ground that he was a
hopelessly incompetent financier and a danger to
the country, was a while ago taken back into
■office by the very party which had previously
thrown him out. That party alleged that its
front and foremost plank was Financial Reform ;
yet, on no visible ground except that Twad-
dell had a vote of his own, and had behind him a
small handful of men who also had votes, the Re-
form crowd not only took Twaddell into the
Ministry, but put him into the office in which it
had alleged that he was a danger, and his policy a
scandal. The Reform crowd had appealed to the
country, and got the country to endorse its own
view of Twaddell ; and then it played a confid-
ence trick on the country by treacherously hand-
ing the Treasury over to the muddler whom the
country had refused to put up with any longer.
Nor had Twaddell reformed. On the contrary,
since he became a colleague of the men who
had previously tossed him out he has expressed
the same wild, insane theories which he was
(previously guilty of, and on the strength
•of which the “Reformers” threw him out.
Twaddell is the same Twaddell that lie always
was; it is the “Reformers” who, having got
comfortably into office, are quite prepared to
throw overboard all their alleged beliefs, and
trample into the gutter every principle they ever
•claimed to possess.
* * * *
Financial Reform having therefore gone into
the gutter with the rest of the N.S. W. Reform
party’s principles, the Wade crowd, after handing
the Treasury over to Twaddell, cheerfully at-
tempted to resume the old Twaddell plan of
borrow and boom ; and, in pursuance of that plan,
(the Government last week asked Cohen, of Lon-
don, for another £1,500,000. And then the pre-
-viously mentioned brick arrived. For, instead of
IN. S. Wales getting £1,500,000, all that the public
.■subscribed for was £OOO,OOO ; and the greater part
•of that was taken at the minimum, not by Cohen,
i)jut bv a Sydney bank. Except for the purposes
of renewing old loan curses as they came home
to roost, there has been very little Aus-
tralian borrowing in London during the
past few years. Australia has been very
flush of money itself; the Commonwealth
has been starving itself in order to pour coin into
the State Treasuries; and, anyway, there was a
revulsion against the habit of funning to the
pawnshop every morning before breakfast. Con-
sequently, there hasn’t been much borrowing, and
when a State has gone to the pawnshop it has
mostly been an Australian pawnshop, which, at
any rate, was the less damaging of two evils.
Yet, notwithstanding all this, when N. S. Wales
went to Cohen in London and asked for a million
and a half, all that Cohen produced from his
trousers pocket was about a quarter of a million,
or less. And the State that asked for the money
was N. S. Wales, that pretentious-Ma whose
State Frights crowd has incessantly chattered to
the effect that its credit was better than the credit
of all Australia would be. The result of Ma’s
application to Cohen— in other words, Cohen’s
opinion of the States as individual borrowers —
will be a pleasant subject for a few minutes’
heart-to-heart talk at the State Governments’
Conference in Hobart within the next few days. It
is partly in view of this Conference that Cohen’s
brick is likely to do some good. The State Minis-
ters, preparing to strut before Australia, had been
busy sticking peacock’s feathers over themselves.
Cohen’s well-aimed riiissile is calculated to dis-
turb a few of those trimmings. He couldn’t have
let them know what he thought of them at a more
opportune time.
* * * *
Of course there has been a rush to explain that
the shocking fiasco really means nothing at all.
The loan was guaranteed, they say, so what
does it matter ? “ The N.S. W. loan has not been
much of a success,” the apologetic daily papers
say, “though that means nothing to the Govern-
ment, because the loan was underwritten. N. S.
Wales gets the money, which is the main point.”
The whole borrowing policy is based on misrepre-
sentation and plausible lying ; so it cotnes easy to
explain how a million and a half loan, of which
only half-a-million was applied for, tpanages to be
a success. But not even a shipload of lies will
get over the fact that the loan hasn’t been
floated. The State will get the money; but
the underwriters have 3'et to float the bulk
of the loan. The transaction simply means
that, for a very stiff consideration—lJ per-
cent. in addition to the ordinary commission—the
underwriters take the loan, and put it off as the
market will absorb it. Therefore the State has
not only got all the money at present available,
but it has also discounted its capacity to.borrow
in the future. It has not only borrowed all it can,
but it has got an advance on what it may be able
to borrow later on. That is to say, it has drawn
against its “expectations ” ; and when the young
fool, whether man or country, reaches the point
when he borrows on his “expectations,” it is about
time to either put him under lock and key or hold
him for a space under the pump. For, of all forms
of borrowing, there is hardly one so ruinous as
this. Being obviously the last resort of the bor-
rower, the lender sharpens his knife and prepares
to carve large slices out of his victim. Consider
what happens in this N. S. Wales case.’ The
underwriter first of all takes per cent, on the
total amount of the loan ; and that means £18,750
for a start. He gets that underwriting commis-
sion not merely on the part of the loan
which presently he will have to nurse until he
can lay the infant on to somebody else’s doorstep,
but upon the entire loan. On top ofitliat he takes
£ per cent, commission on the part that he has to
get rid of. But even that is not all. He won’t
touch the business unless the minimum is fixed at
from 2 to 3 per cent., below the current market
price for the State’s stock. In this case the
underwriters insisted on a minimum of 97J; that
is to say, for its I O U for £lO0 —which the
youngster will have to pay back by-and-bye—the
State now actually gets only £97 10s. At the end
of last week, South Australian 3| per cents, in
London were worth £lOO and Victorian 3£ per
cents, were worth £99. Thus, in addition to the
£18,750 which N.S. Wales pays for the joy of
getting an advance from Cohenstein on its
“expectations,” and in addition to the £4500 or
more which it pays the same crowd as commission
(this is independent of the commission already
paid), the State gets £22,500 less than the same
amount of South Australian stock is worth at the
present moment. This other aspect of Cohen’s
brick is also submitted for the prayerful con-
sideration of the State cacklers who are just about
to meet in Hobart.
* * * *
Nobody but a young spendthrift who hadn’t
yet found his senses, or an old fool who had lost
what senses he ever had, would dream of borrow-
ing money on terms like that. The hopeless
Twaddell evidently believes, however, that it is
better to borrow on any terms than not to borrow
at all. The amazing thing is that the crowd
which mostly says “ Hear, hear” to that in a fat,
puffy voice is also the crowd which preaches
thrift and abstinence and other virtues of that
liighlv-respectable character. The man who
spends all that he earns, and lays by nothing, or
puts nothing into house and furniture and tools of
his own, is represented as a fool and a waster ;
the man who does worse than that, and pawns or
little he has got, and lives in a rented
house, and sleeps on a hired bed, and Works with
tools that don’t belong to him, and even then runs
into debt, is mostly regarded as a rogue as well as
a fool and a waster. But the very people who put
forward that theory witli most emphasis, and pro-
fess the most contempt for the thriftless, shiftless
person, are quite prepared to allow the country to
be thriftless and shiftless ; and when anybody
demands that the country shall pay its way, and
leave off selling its substance—represented by pub-
lic lands—and provide its own tools of trade in
the shape of railways out of its own savings, the
Twaddells of the communit}' bray that the thing
can’t be done. And apparently the only person
who can promptly insist that the thing shall be
done is Cohen ; wherefore Cohen’s brick is
received with a certain amount of cordiality. It
may hurt for the moment, but it is better to be
knocked over and stunned than be permitted to
wish on over the precipice and be smashed.
GETTING HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The light is switched on, a voice calls me, and I
come, with a start, out of a confused dream.
“ What’s the weather like ? ” I ask.
“ Blowin’ strong from the sou’-east and squally.
She’s shipping a lot of water.”
The cheerful swish of about tln'ee inches of it
across the floor of my room, as she rolls, testifies to
the accuracy of this statement. I get into my
clothes, topping them with a clammy oilskin and
an old felt hat, and climb up to the bridge as
eight bells is struck (4 a.in.).
The second mate greets me with his usual en-
thusiasm. “It’s been a rotten watch. Ihe
squalls come up black as the mouth of H-—.
There’s Norah Head. It was on the four points
at 3.37. Nothing else in sight. She’s going S.W.
x S. S.” And away he goes, dropping down the
bridge ladder like a shot.
I glance at the compass, growl at the man at
the wheel, and make for the weather corner of
the bridge, catching a stinging cloud of spray as
I go.
I note the time when Norah Head is abeam and
tuck the details away in a fold of my memory. It
is too wet to write them down.
Another black squall comes away. In the thick
of it, I notice a darker spot right ahead. “ Hard
a-starboard ! ” I yell, and we swing out just in
time to miss a ketch, hove to, with no lights
showing. I curse comprehensively, and steady
the ship on her course again.
The squall passes, and there is a glow on the
horizon ahead that looms up and fades regularly.
This cheers me a bit, and I muse on the home that
is in sight of that light.
Daylight come 3 in over a streaky green and
white sea, and four bells goes. The bo’s’n comes
up, and we “ Good morning ” mach other. “ It’s
nfo use washing down,” I say ; “ she’s been washed
enough all night.” Then I go in,to technical
details re getting ready for port. He goes to
turn the men to, and I try to watch them and the
ship at the same time. We must be ready to
work cargo as soon as we get alongside.
We are at the Heads at eight, and the Old Man
comes up to take her in.
Arrived at the wharf, I see the stevedore and
wharfinger, explain what cargo we have, and
where it is, then make a break to get some of the
salt washed off and lnive breakfast. I am getting
a shave when I hear the Old Man :
“Where’s the chief officer? Tell him I want
him.”
I hurry up and rush to his room. He is wait-
ing, and goes ahead full speed : “Here are those
accounts of wages and overtime sheets. I’ve
signed them all. The cook’s mate and two trimmers
are leaving; you can make out their accounts;
pay them off to-morrow morning. I’ll call at the
shipping office and sign the discharges. They’re
going to lighter the sugar, so we’ll only have to
shift to the coke wharf in the morning. I’ll ring
up later and find out when she’ll be ready. You
can take these to the office.” He clears out,
leaving me with my hands full of papers.
I make up the wages of the cook’s mate
and the two trimmers* and start to get into my
shore clothes. My best boots are full of water,
and I have to hunt for a dry pair in the locker. I
am half-dressed when the boss coalie comes along,
wanting the port lifeboat put out, as they’re going
to coal into the saddleback this time instead of
the side bunkers. I get the men along and drop
her over the side. The stevedore wants a new
winch-fall; they’ve jammed one in the cogs of a
winch and cut it. I see to this, and meet the wharf
clerk with a sheaf of letters demanding explana-
tions why a case marked M in diamond was landed
in Maryborough instead of being transhipped to
Melbourne, and other such-like things. I grab
these documents and throw them into my bunk to
be dealt with later, shoo off the wharf clerk, and
proceed with my dressing.
Another knock—a lumper this time : “ Say,
mister, 1 dropped a case on my finger ; have you
any Friar’s Balsam ? ” I do first-aid business on
him, and bolt for the shore, while several other
people are looking for “Mr. Mate. ”
At the office I interview the assistant-manager.
I give the Customs clerk the accounts of wages,
telling him to have the money ready in the morn-
ing. Also I leave ,the overtime sheets with the
cashier, and go to beat up a couple of sailormen to
replace those who are , leaving. Back again, I
draw the overtime and hurry down to the ship.
Dinner is being cleared away, and I get the cold
remnants.
By the time I’ve finished the stevedores have
started again, and there are more demands for
“ Mr, Mate.” There are a couple of heavy castings
to come out, and he must rig the gear and see
them landed.
It is after four now, and, thinking it about up
to me, I clear out after further explanations to the
stevedore re cargo. Close on six I get home. As
I get off the tram I am greeted with, “ Oh, daddy,
my dolly’s head has come off, and I want you to
glue it on; and Dick has broken the wheels off his
enginq, and my horse’s leg has fallen out.” There
are other things that “must be done this time ” ;
but I’ve got inside by now, and forget all the
worries for a while.
We’ve just finished along and uproarious tea,
when the chemist’s small boy comes to say some-
one wants me at their telephone.
“ Hello ! is that the mate of the Kookaburra.
Jones, the wharfinger, speaking. We can’t get
lighters for the sugar, so the ship is to shift to
Pyrmont at 11, and start there at midnight. Yes,
I’ve rung up the skipper. He says tell you to
have everything ready. Good-bye.”
That meaifs that my night at home is gone, and
I go back with the news. The kids are allowed to
stay up for a romp, and I assist at their disrobe-
ment. Then it is time to get down to the ship.
I arrive to find one of the men too drunk to be
any use, and, of course, the two who are to be
paid off have gone. The Old Man comes down as
II is striking, and wants everything let go at once.
I have one man with me for’ard. We mule the
wires in, and out again when we get to the Sugar
Works. More stevedores want more gear. About
1 a.in.-, when everything is going smoothly, I
turn in, and sleep with the rattle of winches in my
ears. At five I am out again to shift to the coke
wharf, and we get her tied up by six. They can
manage to run the coke in without the mate, so I
go home to breakfast. Am back to the ship at
9.30, and we shift over to the company’s wharf. I
find out what cargo we’re likely to have and
arrange about its stowage, and make off to the
office again, catch the Customs, clerk, and drag
him to the shipping office to pay off assorted flat-
feet, trimmers and spud-peelers. Being too late
for the ship’s dinner, I go to lunch with the
Customs clerk. Return to the ship to find the
second having a hot argument with the wharfin-
gers about a lot of casks they want to puton deck.
I join vigorously in this, and get it settled. Take
in the lifeboat again and re-rig the purchase to
take in a couple of sugar boilers. The wife comes
down, and I try to get a few minutes' talk with her
in my room; but they keepcoming for “Mr. Mate”
until she says, “My being here only worries you.
I’ll go home.”
“ Some day we’ll be lucky, and have a Sunday
together,” I say (it is the thing we pray for), an.d
she goes. y
At five the cargo is all in, and the ship looks
like a warehouse in an earthquake, with crates,
casks, drums and scrap-iron scattered about the
decks. The stevedores slap on the hatches. The
Old Man yells, “Stand by the lines ! ” and we let
go and steam down Sydney’s glorious harbor. I do
not look at its beauties, being up to the eyes
in work, getting derricks down, hatches battened
and deck cargo lashed. At last I get tea —cold,
of course—and go on the bridge until eight.
The Old Man gives me careful instructions
about making Port Stephens and Seal Rocks in
the morning watch. He’s had a long day and
needs a good sleep.
I take a final cruise round to see there is nothing
adrift. Then I turn in and dream I’m pointing
out to Mr. Justice O’Connor the beauties of his
Arbitration award in the matter of a dispute
between the Commonwealth Shipowners’ Federa-
tion and the Merchant Service Guild.
I’ve been home.
MATE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Soft Word that is Powerless to Turn
Away Suspicions.
The Japanese Ambassador in London said, ac-
cording.to a cable the other day :
There could be no dominant Power in the Pacific.
Japan wanted her share, hut not that part of it washing:
the American continent, for there she uad nothing: to do.
Similarly, she had lgo interests m Hawaii or the Philip-
pines, but she meant to be one of the dominant Pacific
Powers with her own sphere of influence in her own part
of the ocean.
It is likely that those words were directed, not so
much at the U.S.A. (which, knowing the Jap
personally, proceeds on the same lines no matter
what he says), as at those in England and else-
where into whose minds dark suspicions have
been creeping with regard to Japan’s inten-
tions towards the Commonwealth and Maoriland
The Ambassador’s remarks won’t, however,
soothe the minds of any who know the Jap.
In its short lease of life as a modern Power,
Japan has shown itself to be predatory and per-
fectly indifferent to its word when self-interest
called. Its treatment of Korea is a case in point.
There is an interesting analogy to be drawn
between Korea as it was 15 years ago and Aus-
tralia as it is to-day. Korea, like Australia, was
a self-governing dependency. It had, as Aus-
tralia has, a large number of politicians
who relied on the power of its overlord
(China) to shield it from foreign aggression. Like
Australia, it had an Anti-Defence party —a party
which laid it down that for Koreans to think of
arming was to insult the great country that had
guarded them so cheaply and well in the past. (It
may be noted, in passing, that most of the Korean
Anti-Defeneeites had the decency to commit sui-
cide when they realised the pass they had brought
their country to—a spirited, if illegal, sfep that one
can hardly conceive B. Smith or Willy Kelly
taking.) Japan had the same powerful claim
of geographical proximity on Korea that it
has on Australia. In one respect, certainly,
the analogies between Australia and the
Hermit Kingdom in relation to Japan fails.
The Koreans were always the humblest of people.
They gave no offence to anyone. The Common-
wealth is not like that. Humility is not a charac-
teristic of Australians. If the foreigner is a
trader he has to pay duties on the goods he im-
ports; if he is colored he is liable to be himself
barred under a stringent Aliens’ Immigration
Restriction Act. These are wise provisions, but
they are not pacificatory ones ; and emphatically
they are not the sort that are going to be
efficacious for long, unless there is some power
behind the statute book. Korea gave no reason-
able cause to Japan to invade it and put its
defenders (such as they were) to the sword. Aus-
tralia gives the whole of the Asiatic races such an
excuse every day of its life. Not that it would
avail Australia much if.it didn’t. Might is as
much right to-day, to all intents and purposes, as
it was in the Stone Age. Any- old excuse for
inequitable conduct serves when;the big battalions
offer it. Consequently no one has ever seri-
ously objected to Japan’s presence in Korea.
The Portsmouth Treaty affirmed the reason-
ableness of it; so did the departure of
the Foreign Legations from the Korean capi-
tal ; and the Anglo-Jap agreement affirmed it
yet again. There is a principle of rough justice
that lias always obtained among the nations to
the effect" that the land which is incapable of
guarding itself is unworthy to live as a nation.
Jap ambassadors in Europe may talk peace till
further orders ; it is, after all, what they are there
for. A far better criterion as to the future move-
ments of their country is to be found in what
their country has done in the past.
* . ’ ,
The Big Landlord and the Birthrate.
From a paper read the other day before the
Pastoralists’ Union of N. S. Wales: —
We are confronted with one difficulty. In the old
country the number of children a laborer has is not a
matter of concern to his employer, as married men in-
variably find iheir own rations. Here, in the country, it
is, of course, different, and it is easy to understand the
reluctance to employ men with encumbrances.
An “industry” which regards children as “en-
cumbrances,” and which has, “of course,” a
“reluctance” to employ men who own them,
isn’t an industry which Australia can trifle with.
If that industry can’t afford to pay men enough to
feed and clothe wives and children as well as them-
selves, then it does not merit any consideration; no
such business as that ought to be tolerated. If it
prevents men from marrying and producing
children, it is no less indefensible from the national
point of view than any murderous business which
calls for the wholesale sacrifice of the human life
engaged in it. If, on the other hand, the industry
is all right, but those who are engaged in it are all
wrong, then they ought to be dealt with, and dealt
with emphatically. If it is they who stand
in the way of the increase of population—
the nationally indispensable increase of popula-
tion—then they constitute a national peril,
as well as a national disgrace, and the
nation that doesn’t express its opinion of
them almost deserves to perish. The woman
who, for the sake of a few pounds, handles the
young women “in trouble,” and secures a “cer-
tain result,” is rightly held up to contempt and
execration. She is placed by most people in the
lowest scale of society. She is branded as a
harpy ; and the doctor who assists her is shunned
by his respectable fellow-practitioners. But the
big oastoralist—- the great landlord—can, for the
sake of extra gain, refuse to hire a man with
“ encumbrances,” can practically deny to men the
right to marry and have children, can rob Aus-
traliaof the little Australians it ought to have, can
check the birth-rate quite as effectively and on an
infinitely larger scale than the harpy ; and he is
not despised. On the contrary, he is honored.
He is practically given a separate House of Parlia-
ment, in which he can say “ No ” when the people
say “Yes,” and his “No” prevails. With him
it is as much a matter of £ s. d. as it is with the
harpy ; he admits cheerfully that it is a matter of
business. In fact, he thinks that that is a full and
complete vindication. He cannot therefore com-
plain if, as a matter of business also, the country
proceeds to shift him. The country needs popu-
lation ; in order to hold this land for “ the
Empire ” (of which he generally professes to be a
loyal supporter), it must have population. r l here-
fore, when the big landholder admits that, as a


matter of course, he is opposed to employing’ men
and women who are supplying population, the
only thing for the country to do is to get rid of
mm on the grounds that he is a self-confessed
national enemy.
>
A Ballad of Iron and Steel.
[For Tub Bulletin.]
Nothing can help us in the trouble that comes to every
na m tune—and which is likely to come to us in it's
most awful form, because our danger is not that of con-
luest by a civilised white race, but of obliteration by
seim-barbanans—save men and Iron. And of these, Iroii
comes first.— Australian paper.
Ye have sung, O bards, of cricket and cards—of
the winds and the seas and tides ;
Ye have ravelled your rhymes of the bygone
times and of many a thing besides !
Of a dim regret, of the hearts that fret—of these,
Ood wot, ye have sung ;
Of women and love, of the stars above and the
milk-white arms that clung !
Ye have laughed and cried, ye have sobbed and
t Sl f?hed, for the hopes long vanished and fled ;
6 !] aV ? ur ?£ your flouts, ye have babbled your
doubts but the time for doubts is dead !
Aye, the years grow grim, and I’d raise a hymn
whose hammerlike notes should peal;
Go forth, O song, like a war-chant strong—a Ballad
of Iron and Steel !
Ere the Roman’s star had blazed afar, ere Athens
looked o er the sea,
Old Tubal Cain had hammered amain, and
greater than kings was he !
Neath Nineveh’s stones ’midst smouldering bones
he chisels and knives and saws ;
By the Ganges’ side there still abide the weapons
that outlast laws !
le Assyrian knew—with straining thew he
toiled at his ancient forge ;
Ere Briton or Gaul raised his first stone wall,
steel clanged in the Lapland gorge !
To the Norseman’s shores Gellivara’s ores were
borne by the Viking’s keel—
There was never a breed with a forthright creed
but it hammered its Iron and Steel !
From travail of fire rose the ships of Tyre— th
galleys that roamed afar ;
From the lnlls of Spain their freights were ta’en
across Bilbao’s bar !
Fiom Finland s lakes with steel-pronged rakes it
was raised dim years ago ;
The Laurentian Hills feed the Yankee’s mills—
hear the lordly Bessemers blow !
From the buried rocks man’s strength unlocks a
treasure more dear than gold ;
For iron and steel bring the world to heel—they
are good for a land to hold !
Tho’ in numbers weak, ’twas the steel-strong
Greek that made proud Xerxes reel—
Yea, never a land made a lasting stand except
with Iron and Steel!
The historian writes of a thousand fights, of
battles and sieges grim ;
But never he tells where the secret dwells—it is
here in this flame-red hymn !
How Britain arose, how she broke her foes—’tis
plain for all men to see ;
It was iron-stone ore that won each war—it was
Steel plus Industry !
Where the forges boom and the smoke-falls loom,.
where the black blast-furnace roars,
It is there that a land reads its charter grand and
its soul like an eagle soars !
From steel and steam, from the fires that gleam
where the strokes of the Nasmyth peal—
Lo, it draws its power in the blood-red hour, and
its power is Iron and Steel !
Ye have heard of Spain how she ruled the Main,
how the nations’ hearts stood still;
'Twas the Catalan forge in the mountain-gorge-
that shattered them at her \yill !
’Tis the furnace-blast that prevails at last, plain
proved all the ages down ;
Art paints and sings, but the earth’s True Kings
are the smiths in their basils brown !
Aye, ironstone hills, ye have bowed to the wills of
men who are stark and dead ;
None knoweth their names, but their furnace-
flames have driven the world ahead !
In the puddler’s hand lies the world’s command,
though fools unto princes
All praise to the men with the strength of ten
who fashion the Iron and Steel !
Ye have sung, O Bards, of cricket and cards—l
sing of the rolling-mill;
Ye have ravelled your rhymes of the bygone times ,
but mine is a chant to thrill !
I sing of sweat, of teeth hard set, of muscles and
thews a-strain ;
Of billets and bars, of railroad cars--yea, these
arc my song's refrain !
Ye have sobbed and sighed—now I chant of pride,
of battle and toil instead ;
Of steel and steam, of the , doors agleam and the
Nasmyth's mighty tread /
The years grow few, so I sing to you with hammer-
like notes that peal;
Have ye heard my song, my war-chant strong—go !
fashion your Iron and Steel!
victoria. Grant llervey.
«
The Remarkable Fondness of Certain People
for an Alleged Tiger.
One of the most baffling human beings in Aus-
tralia to-day is the person who calls himself a
“convinced anti-Socialist.” He is more of an
anomaly than the long line of “uncompromisingly
Freetrade” Premiers N.S.W. possessed before
Federation—worthy men who demonstrated their
faith in Freetrade by giving Protection to scores
of articles producible in the State. The Socialist
may be, “at heart,” the' home- wrecker 'and the
marriage-tie burster that his political opponents
say he is. But at least he is consistent. He doestbt
agitate to get the railways, post-offices and other
nationalised concerns made over to Private Enter-
prise. The alleged “anti-Socialist” is, on the other
hand, throwing his creed overboard every day of
the week. In the past 10 days a fervently anti-
Socialistic vigneron was allowed to claim, in the
Sydney Daily Telegraph, without a word of
rebuke from that sheet, that “proper State en-
couragement should be extended to the Australian
wine industry.” About the same time, the
Sydney City Council Socialised an important
portion of the N.S.W. fish trade, amid the
plaudits of the whole of the anti-Socialist
press. As soon as they saw the results of
the Socialisation of the fish trade, the anti-
Socialist fruitgrowers sent a deputation to the
Sydney City Council to ask that the fruit-vending
business should he treated in like manner. The
next day the Bathurst A. H. and P. .Association
—whose officials are nothing if not “anti-
Socialistic”—met and decided to hold a National
Show in 1910, and to make it an excuse to get
from the Government more than ever of the
accursed thing, State Aid. The same evening
Sydney Evening News published an excellently-
reasoned article, advocating “a Workmen’s
Insurance Co. for N.S.W., in which the Govern-
ment would be the company’’--the co. to be on
the lines of one which has proved a success in
Maoriland. About the same moment the
anti-Socialist tanners of Victoria—Employers’
Federation men mostly—were calling upon Pre-
mier Murray to go in for State cultivation of
wattle trees. And finally, C. G. Wade, fresh
from sending the Stated agent to Melbourne to
canvass for orders for the State’s ship-building
dock, dropped the ominous hint apropos the land
question that ‘‘all must recognise that the day of
the big areas had gone, and in the public interest
he asked those who held those large areas of land
suitable for agricultural purposes to recognise the
trend of the times.” Inevitably the thought
arises: Is Socialism really the Horror and the
Menace and the ravening tiger that all these
people will lay their political lives it is when the
next election happens along? If it is, and if these
people believe that it is, as they say they do, then
clearly this country is simply overrun by traitors
who want to ruin it piecemeal.
*
Murder as a More or Less Safe Trade.
Any week, almost, the daily-paper reader is liable
to stumble on an item like the following :
The Coroner (Mr. Jones) yesterday investigated the
circumstances attending the death of Mary Brown. Mrs.
S. Gamp was in court during the proceedings. The
Coroner found that death had been caused by the pro-
curing of a certain event, and he committed Mrs. Gamp
to take her trial on a charge of manslaughter.
The number of children lost to the State as a
result of the efforts of ladies like Mrs. Gamp can-
not, in the nature of things, be even approxi-
mately estimated, but it is safe to say that it is
enormous. The details and causes of deaths of
women following upon “certain events” are
made public occasionally in the Criminal Courts ;
more often (in those cases, namely, where the
doctor who performs the operation is in league
with and has recommended the “nurse”) they
are hushed up. These are essentially occasions
when it is to the interests of all parties” concerned
—doctor, “nurse,” and family of the deceased
alike—to avoid the general eye. A line may be
got as to the huge holocaust of women that occurs
yearly from illegal operations by considering the
vital statistics during any given period. Thus in
the 13 years (1893-1905), according to the
Official Year Book of N.S.W., 1905-6, the
fatal child-birth cases among married women
averaged but G‘9 per 1000 births; among
single women the average was as high as
10'8per 1000. It is a fair thing to assume that Mrs.
Gamp and her ally, the abortion doctor, are re-
sponsible, at least in part, for this state of things.
Admittedly, and apart from any ethical considera-
tions, the limitation of births in this fashion
constitutes a national calamity ; and, unlike most
calamities, it is one that may be partially if
not wholly averted. The quiet by-streets of
Sydney teem with the houses of “wise women”
to whom foolish girls repair when they are in
trouble. These places are well known to all the
police, and to the majority of the neigh-
bors. It is one of the anomalies of State
Governments that, while their sleuth-hounds
are wearing themselves out in their efforts to
make their Police Offences Acts a credit to their
concocters, crimes far more appalling should be
raging without any particular hindrance from the
authorities. The force is so busy watching for the
citizen who consumes his shandy-gaff five minutes
after “time,” and in raiding two-up schools and
palm-reading parlors, that it simply hasn’t time
to scotch the ghoul-like medical “ specialists,” by
comparison with whom the other misdemeanants
are as children of light and innocence. It is not
that there is any particular difficulty in dealing
with the exploiter of “events.” ‘ As above-
noted, her lair is well known to the police
ninety-five times out of a hundred. The
names of the doctors with whom she collabo-
rates are just as well known. All that is needed
for her swift undoing and that of her accom-
plices is the same measure of police vigilance
in her regard as is accorded the publican who
toils under the suspicion of vending “ after hours.’
A few well-organised and determined raids—tlie
sort of raids the gambling clubs died from in N. S.
Wales—and these quiet but deadly “homes”
wpuld start fading out of existence. If raids are
impracticable—though why known murdering
establishments should be more gingerly handled
than suspected wagering places isn’t apparent—a
system of rigorous police supervision should be
instituted. The mere knowledge that the Law
was observing their movements with an eye to
business would have a wonderfully preventive in-
fluence on the medico who procures “events,” the
female who attends the case by prearrangement,
and the unhappy “case ” herself. And the effect
■on the population would be more beneficial than
the labors of many immigration agencies.
A Respectable Game of Bluff.
“0.K.”: Premier Murray of Victoria uttered
some judicial comments last week on the hard
swearing of the witnesses for and against Miss
Sutherland at the inquiry into her fitness for
“mothering” Melbourne’s neglected children.
Addressing a deputation of ardent Suther-
land's who laid great stress on their “re-
spectability,” Murray reminded them that the
witnesses who had flatly contradicted them were
equally respectable. Also he remarked that he
personally had known Miss Sutherland longer
than anyone in the room, and he found her an
“unmanageable woman”; therefore he wasn’t
going to say that her respectable detractors were
a combination of liars simply because her respect-
able barrackers tacitly accused them of being so.
Also MURRAY pointed out that even if the allega-
tions of insobriety, cruelty and violent temper
charged against Miss Sutherland were untrue,
there remained the question of her physical fitness
for the position in which her respectable bar-
rackers desired to reinstate her. Miss Suther-
land, by her own showing, had had a paralytic
stroke, was a sufferer from rheumatism in her knees
and ankles, and had various other ailments.
In short, whilst repudiating the charges of
drunkenness, etc., brought against her by
the other respectable people, she had shown
ample reason why she should no longer expect the
State to hand over neglected children to her care.
Having considered the case in all its bearings,
Premier Murray refused a favorable reply to the
petition of Miss Sutherland’s persistent bar-
rackers, but promised to look further into the
question of the Government’s liability for the
costs of the inquiry which she had demanded.
Touching which inquiry, it seemed to Murray
that the arbitrator “had discredited those wit-
nesses who appeared against Miss Sutherland,
and placed implicit faith in those who appeared
for her.” This was straight talking, worthy of the
Murray formerly known as “Jack,” and the
respectable deputation felt very like a body of
bluffers bowled out. They were mostly the same
people who organised a Sutherland Sympathy
Demonstration at Melbourne Town Hall, some
months ago, because they had no fear of being
put to confusion by a counter demonstration.
The people who know the truth about Miss
Sutherland have no uncharitable desire
to proclaim it again and again, but
since they have been branded as liars
by the vociferous Pharisees who either don’t know
the truth or are impudently denying it, the
Sutherland case calls for a lot more inquiry than
has happened thusfar. There is more in this un-
justifiable barracking for an “unmanageable
woman ” than the public know of. But the
public has already seen for itself that the inquiry
which Miss Sutherland obtained through the
grace of Thomas Bent last year, was granted for
white-washing purposes. Now that Premier
Murray has publicly criticised the finding of the
police magistrate who wielded the whitewash
brush, the matter is somewhat scandalous. In
any other city than Melbourne, it would appear
very scandalous.
The King of Norway’s Boots.
The politics of Melbourne Paunch are a fearsome
and wonderful mixture ; but, amongst the tangle,
it has one reliable stand-by, and that is its devo-
tion to Anti-Sosh. It doesn’t know much about
either Sosh or Anti ; but it has been given to
understand that Sosh isn’t at all “respectable.’’
So we have dreadful outbreaks like this :
In reference to Socialism we may learn a lesson from
far-off Norway. . . . The King of Norway . .. _ . “I
could black my own hoots if I wanted to. hv ’">neit,
and know how to do it. But if I did so, and other people
in good positions also did what is called menial work,
what would become of the multitude in each country who
make a living by blacking boots and similar occupations ? ”
And Paunch rushes on breathlessly to remark that
nobody was able to give old Hakon an answer.
The Kirtg of Norway, if he really uttered the
dreadful rot, apparently thinks that if the Royal
boot-black couldn’t get at the Royal boots (or
anyone else’s boots) he would creep into a coal-
bin and die slowly of starvation. Paunch, like
the King of Norway, is one of that large, stupid
crowd that talks about the rich man “giving
work” when he spends money on luxuries; not
one of the fatuous tribe ever looks at the other
end of the argument, to discover where the rich
man’s money comes from in the first place. Some
of the ideas of Sosh may be open to question ; hut
the notion of sweeping away as much as possible
of the huge army of unproductive labor, which is
living on the earnings of the over-worked and
underpaid productive army, is too firmly estab-
lished to be upset by the King of Sweden, even if
he has the moral support of Paunch in the
enterprise.
There have been bad outbreaks of typhoid in two
or three N. S. Wales country towns, and the hos-
pitals at Tam worth and Gunned ah have been
brimming over. It seems to be time again for
the Board of Health to'Tnquire how these town-
ships dispose of their garbage. When outbreaks
have occurred hitherto various horrors have come
to light. For instance :
(1) Certain hospitals were seats of contagion. If a
man with a broken leg were admitted he was likely to die
of typhoid before he was cured of the broken leg.
(2) Indescribable conditions regarding sanitation ex-
isted (and, it is pretty certain, still exist) in connection
with public schools, railway stations, and hotels.
(3) Old fever beds existed, and were well-known
places tvhere putrescent and contagious matter from past
fever outbreaks was buried—and in these regions a child
with a toy shovel could release enough typhoid germs
to kill more than the battle of Lang-Shang-Wang.
(I) The law with regard to the prevention of the pollu-
tion of natural W’atercoi ;es was a dead letter.
(5) Any old water supply was reckoned good enough
for a country town.
With regard to the pollution of natural water
courses, it is certain that things are still disgrace-
fully bad. In fact, only the other day the Lithgow
council had to pay damages in a civil action be-
cause it had cut a drain through a man’s land to let
sewage run into a natural water-course. As to
theywater supply, the country town may have had
an excuse once, hut nowadays councils have plenty
of power and plenty of rating capacity to give
nearly every place a good, clean, wholesome'ser-
vice. But the backward town needs to be prodded
and roused ; it usually doesn’t know what a filthy
hog* it is. Hence N. S. Wales badly needs to
follow up the new Local Government Act with an
agitation in the press, or in Parliament, or at the
street corners, or in the churches—any where at
all—on behalf of systematic cleanliness, which
would result in the saving of hundreds of valuable
lives.
■ ♦
When the mail closed on applications for the 90
blocks at Ouyen, in the Pinnaroo country, away
at the back of the Victorian Mallee, the officials
had noted particulars of over 500 land-hungry
settlers. Five hundred men, mostly with
families, eager to get away back to the rail-
less and uncertain interior where they can get a
bit of land ! The Commonwealth Labor Govern-
ment can alter all that with a graduated land tax.
Moreover, it can soon get into a position to
itself offer superior areas by taking over the
Northern Territory. As a matter of fact, the
talcing over of that province and the completion
of the through line might be a worse blow to the
fat Victorian landowners than even the demolition
of their beloved House of Sleep. It is an aspect
of Northern Territory occupation that hasn’t
been much considered, but it is worth considering.
The opening of the Territory would ease off the
demand on southern land, and even those land-
hungry men who weren’t disposed to move north
would in all probability find things made a deal
easier for them.
A PRETTY row has been raging in Sydney around
the City Organ. Some time ago the then Mayor,,
suspecting that the beautiful instrument was not'
what it ought to be, cast about for an independent
expert to report on its condition. He fixed on.
W. G. Wale, and could not have done better..
Mr. Wale was born in an organ loft, spent his
youth among pipes and reeds, and, being designed
for a musical career, was sent to Oxford to be
trained for it. No one else visible in Australia
has the same qualifications, and he would not have
been in this country at all only he had to choose
between taking charge of a division of the
Heavenly choir and cutting himself loose from his
musical environment. Norman, Beard and Co. r
the great English organ-making firm, then chose
him for its Australian representative—a fact which
speaks for itself. On receiving the Mayor’s com-
mission, Mr. Wale made a minute examination
of the Town Hall instrument, and handed in a
report full of lucid detail. He attacked no one,
made no reflections—merely set down what he
found to be wrong with the organ. It had been
seriously chopped about to suit the whims of
passing organists; its blowing machinery was
obsolete; while the appliances for taking the
wind from the blowing machinery to the vocal
parts of the organ were antiquated. Considering
that the organ is 23 years old, and has not been
brought up to date, this was only to be ex-
pected. Then a row started. The officials
in charge of the organ considered the report,
a personal attack, and went for him bitterly *
denied his report in the mass and ad-
mitted the truth of it in detail ; and then
pointed out that they had said it all before. The
daily papers joined in the scrimmage, and some
of them allowed themselves to be made use of—
which was a poor way of rewarding a man for try-
ing to do his duty in preserving the city’s treasure.
A manager might as well resent the introduction
of an auditor. The whole trouble is that the City
Council has tried to run the organ department far
too cheaply : £3OO per annum for a man who has
the practical control of so beautiful and rare an
instrument is quite absurd. About the best thing
the Council can do now is to appoint Wale city
organist at a decent salary, and it will then have",
besides an organist with the highest credentials, a
man who is also a mechanical expert, able to keep,
the city’s treasure in proper order and preserve,
its valuable life.
♦
“ Phiz ” on Maoriland’s volcanic finance :
I am only one of 128,000 Maoriland landholders, and!
only one of 566,000 adults ; and when I think of that Ii
feel that I’m pretty small potatoes. But when I think off
my share of a public debt of £67,000,000 it begins-
to occur to me that I am a large-sized puinpkin.
I am one of a little crowd which has a public interest bill of
£2,478,202 ; and, as if that wasn’t distinction enough, I
am also one of a crowd which owns another interest hill
even bigger than that. Only reckoning registered mort-
gages, a trifle of £65,453,940 has been borrowed in Maori-
land on the security of land, and the interest on that
is often 7 per cent. To make the bill more crushing, the
money has often been advanced on a boom valuation.
Money was borrowed hand over fist, prices boomed
upwards, and now here we are in a bog of debt and in-
terest ; for the boom prices didn’t make even one cow
give an extra ounce of butter. Yet that “brilliant
financier,” J. Ward, instead of easing- our burdens, con-
tinues to splash the money, in a painful effort to pretend
that the boom is still on, and that nothing has happened.
Ten thousand pounds a year is paid for an’effete
Canadian mail service which is almost unknown even in
commercial circles. The railways are a home for waifs
and strays, and are run at a shocking loss. The
Otira railway tunnel is to cost £600,000, and won’t earn
interest orl a tenth of it. We pay £88,250 a year for
a Tourist Department whose chief use is to pilot wealthy
snobs around. The whole country still reeks of boom’;
the public service reeks of boom ; and the longer we poke
our head in the sand, and refuse to see that the boom has
broken, and that we are trying to live up to artificial
conditions, the longer we shall have to crawl on our
stomachs presently.
“ Dandalup ” : On February 18, Westralia
started in earnest on the development of its own
Northern Territory, when the first sod of the Port
Hedland-Marble Bar railway was turned. This
is, practically, the first progressive step the
Western State has taken in opening up its
wealthy Northern stretches. Although the
southern districts, which centralise on Perth,
have benefited by scores of railways and branch
lines, the country between the capital and
Broome has oidy three apologies for lines, one of
which is owned by foreign capitalists, who screw
heavy charges out of the unfortunate settlers, and;
provide a train-service which is miserable in all
respects. For years the Nor’-West has been cry-'
ing out for railways, and one of the most persis--
tent of the battlers has been John Michael,
Drew, of the Gerald ton Express. From the.
public platform and through the press, John has.
preached the gospel of peopling the North with,
whites ; for he lives in a place where he can see-
the Asiatic Peril any morning before breakfast..
The Hedland railway is to be only 115 miles ini
length, yet it will open up a vast country rich irii
possibilities from both agricultural and mining-
standpoints. “After the sod-turning, all hands,
celebrated the occasion amid great enthusiasm,”
states my telegram. Only those who have-
“celebrated” in that far northern town really,-
understand what that phrase means.
Kighteous Capital.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If every man spent the whole of his income as it came
in there would be no capital. Capital is the product of
self-denial, of the strength of will which enables a man to
decline to expend all his substance in gratifying 1 the de-
sires of the moment. Capital is the result of abstinence,
of saving, of forethought.— The Argus.
Those foolish fellows who have said that capital is
theft
Are henceforth of their fond belief eternally be-
reft ;
For capital’s self-sacrifice, with abstinence aug-
mented,
And all that’s fine in human-kind since virtue was
invented.
Hard cash we know
As minted woe—
The goodly Argus says it’s so.
The man of capital is one who has refrained from
beers,
And e’er renounced the joys of life. His quids
are garnered tears.
Carnegie’s millions stand for thrift and absti-
nence heroic,
And Rothschild saved his little bit by living like
a Stoic;
While Gould would be
A tramp if he
Had taken sugar in his tea.
Recording angels are not kept in Paradise of late.
All souls present their bank-books to St. Peter of
the Gate,
And those are counted saints who have a million
in debentures,
Or draw fat dividends from rings or other business
ventures.
The Golden squares
Are thronged with heirs,
With thrones for multi-millionaires !
Since capital is rarely held by those who’ve borne
the trial
Of abstinence and suffering, and toil and self-
denial,
The rich men, daily practising the Argus ortho-
doxies,
Save by the thrift of others, apd then go to Heaven
as proxies.
The poor, whose dearth
Made Morgan’s “worth,”
Get Hell—just as they did on earth !
VICTORIA.
EDYSON.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
Cinematograph Films.
250,000 feet of Films for HIRE.
NEW SUBJECTS arriving EVERY WEEK.
Instruments and all Accessories Stocked.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
The proposal for an Army of The Empire
shows how the enthusiasm for defence flames from
Nation to Nation of British peoples. And that
Spirit of Defence—D.C.L. Whisky—adds its m-
spiring influence to the Cause. D.C.L. leads the
battle for Wise Defence.*
A number of prominent citizens met lately at the
Chapter House of St. Andrew’s Cathedral in
Sydney, and decided to form a Society for Pro-
moting Christianity amongst the Jews. The idea
is to run the society on the lines of the well-known
London institution, and to gradually spread out
over Australia. On the same day that the papers
reported this meeting they printed the following
about the Sydney Hospital: —
Mr. Jons Pope (president), in moving the adoption of
the report, said that the year had been a very heavy one
for work. In the different wards during the past 12
months 36,812 patients had been treated. Financially
there was a bit of a strain, and they had run into debt to
some thousands of pounds with the bankers. Although
they had been well treated by the Government they
wanted much more in subscriptions from friends of the
institution. If he were put in immediate possession of
±9OOO it would not pay the overdraft. Such a position
was one that should not exist in regard to the institution
in a community such as Sydney’s was.
Even when poor and reputationless and wholly
dependent on the goodwill of the proselytiser, the
modern Jew is nearly as hard to shift from his
faith as were his ancestors, who required persua-
sion by rack and thumbscrew. One result is that
the attempt to Christianise him is an exttemely .
costly process. And while very few of him are
lured away from Judaism, it is sure that such of him
as is lured is hardly worth the trouble and expense.
The British S.P.C.J. has been at work for nearly
100 years. Jew-con verting, like slumming, is a
craze with certain London clerics : it is their mild
substitute for cannibal-islanding. The East End
contains more derelict Hebrews than the poor
quarter of any other English-speaking city barring
New York. Into their midst plunges, with the
best of intentions, the missionising parson. Of
course, he “ wins over” a certain number. The
Cockney smuggler-bandit whom Shaw portrays —
he who is willing to embrace any old faith
for the sake of present gain—has his proto-
type in the Jewish as in every other religious
body. Here and elsewhere, therefore, the Churches
claim to have converted a couple of hundred
thousand Israelites during the past century. But
in all the list there is no single distinguished
name; the sincere and educated men of the
Church have a way of staying in it. If there
were money enough for everything, this campaign
might, nevertheless, pass. But surely it is a pity
that this impertinent and costly Jew-proselytising
foolishness—which must be annoying to such Jews
as can’t appreciate the humor of a race, which is
brainy or nothing, being treated like Kanakas
or Hottentots—should be making its appear-
ance here when money and energy are
so badly wanted in so many rational direc-
tions. There is no need to look further
than the Sydney Hospital, and its financial posi-
tion indicated above, for a case in point. The
Hospital does the best- sort of good work. It
saves hundreds of lives annually to the State, and
eases the sufferings of hundreds more. But it is
chronically hard up, and, pending the good day
when it is nationalised wholly, instead of, as at
present, in part, it is likely to stay hard up. The
cash and interest that Sydney citizens are likely
to put into the useless business of Hebrew-prosely-
tising would be an immense help to such an insti-
tution. On the other hand, it is a sad but
true thought that the cash and interest won’t
benefit the soul of Israel worth a used tram-ticket.
The Victorian Assembly took an hour or two
off the other night to contemplate the Girl,
and found the subject not so frivolous as the Girl
often is. The particular girl the legislators were
interested in was the girl who teaches the seventh-
class school in the back country ; and McLachlan,
M.L.A., proved that he was on speaking terms
with the young lady, by reading a bushel of letters
she had sent him. In a general way, the epistles
complained - that the girl was frequently molested
by “ vagrant men,” and that the lodging accom-
modation. was often vile. In a particular way
McLachlan’s correspondence panned out some-
thing like this:—
No. I.—Girl was one of five occupants of a small sleep-
ing-room, no floor, ceiling low enough to be easily touched.
Ventilation, one small window.
No. 2.—Lived at an isolated farm-house. The mother
told her that her sons and daughters were “ not respect-
able,” and to be sure to lock her bedroom door. She
exchanged that school for an eighth-class school to get
away from the young men who weren’t respectable.
No. 3. —Her chief complaint was that one large bottle
of jam, mixed with dead flies and ants, was plunked on
the table week after week ; and when the household
wanted jam (with trimmings) it just dipped in.
No. 4. —Lived with a woman “ whose husband was in
W.A.,” and when the old man didn’t remit they had no
food. She went from there to Goulburn Valley, and at
that place she lived with spiders and tarantulas. But in
that case, anyhow, the husband tarantula was at home as
well as the missus.
No. s.—Lived near a lonely road, where a demented
‘swaggy roamed by day, and raved loudly by night. The
“ hatter ” used to drop into the school occasionally for a
drink of water.
No 6.—Lived in the house of a man who sent his wife
away for a holiday. Another woman came along to
housekeep. The boss and the housekeeper frequently
drove out together, and smashed the gig. Later, the girl
found other lodgings, and then the people told her all
about the boss and the housekeeper—how they smashed
other things besides the gig—and the girl hasn’t stopped
blushing yet.
But perhaps the fate of No. 7 girl was the worst
of all. She had to mind the children while the
mother went to dances ; and while the missus was
away, and after the children had been put to bed,
she had to take a hand at cards with an Indian
hawker. All these things the Assembly heard
without turning many hairs ; Victoria has grown
so accustomed to hearing of its lonely little school-
marm girl battling her plucky way in the bush
that it takes something extra-strong to make any
movement in its thatch.
Those members of the Vic. Employers’ Federa-
tion who belong to the Tanners’ Association have
■ “turned dog” on their anti-Socialistic principles
by asking the Government to introduce a system
of wattle cultivation in the State forests for the pur-
pose of supplying wattle bark to the tanneries. It
is characteristic of the misgovernment which cul-
minated in Bent that the Victorian export trade in
hides is languishing for want of the wherewithal
to tan the sldns, what time the tanning industry
flourishes abroad as the result of the importation
of wattle seed from Australia long years ago.
But, after all, the bark is only a first essential to
the production of leather. Neither Victoria nor
any other State of the Commonwealth has thus
far manufactured the incomparable leather it
is capable of. This country raises the finest
hides and the best tanning material in the
world ; but the Australian industry of leather-
making, though its methods have been steadily
improved of late years, is not yet much further
advanced than was the manufacture of bacon at
the end of last century. In both cases climatic
conditions were said to be unfavorable to excellent
results. Nevertheless, the art of curing a dead
pig without making it as hard and salt as Lot s
wife, seems to have been acquired after a few ex-
periments; and the production of a mild-cured
leather should have been as quickly arrived at.
The tanners of Victoria have still something to
learn ; but, although they are not likely to fall
over one another in their progressive haste, their
action in asking the Government to open up a
trade in raw material with them may be regarded
as an encouraging symptom.
Captain Wallace, of Randwick (Sydney) Rifle
Club, recently talked about defence
Australia could produce 60,000 riflemen, 30,000 of whom
were fit to go into the field at a few days’ notice. There
they had an army in being, provided that uniforms were
forthcoming. All the rifleman asked was a khaki uniform
for every marksman once in three years, at a cost of 18s.
or £1 per uniform.
Out of this statement Sydney Telegraph fashioned
a silly jeer at the compulsory service proposal :
Mr. Husnus talks about.universal .service, but we have
more men enrolled for training- without compulsion than
there is material to train with. If the Government can-
not see its way to arm and equip 60,000 volunteers, how
is it going to find the money for a conscript army of the
whole male population ?
Even the alleged fact that 30,000 riflemen have—
as the Telegraph puts it—“ managed to qualify
as competent marksmen,” is a very poor argument
why those 30,000, in addition to some more
hundreds of thousands of able-bodied Australians,
shouldn’t be trained in the other business which
goes to make competent soldiers. Putting them
into khaki clothes certainly won’t make
of them. And the Telegraph’s gibe that*, so far,
the Commonwealth hasn’t found the money “ to
equip 00,000 volunteers” isn’t a good reason why
the compulsory service proposal should be aband-
oned ; but it is a very good reason why the Com-
monwealth should assume a severely business-like
tone when talking to the States about the
“financial problem,” and insist upon a scheme
that will allow it to retain enough of its revenue
to do the thing that even the Telegraph admits
wants doing.
--
The discovery of a baby in any state of deadness
causes hardly any comment in and about Mel-
bourne these times. Lately a sniffing horse
kicked up one out of the mould at Brighton ; and,
a little while before, a coupde of dead mites were
picked up on a piece of vacant land in Melbourne
itself. Seemingly, people just pitch them away
in any old place, knowing that to acknowledge
them by keeping them alive, or, at any rate, by
burying them decently, is to acknowledge some-
thing else. And nowadays the something else is
much more heinous than even murdering the
baby. That’s why they’re murdered, or allowed
to die—which is much the same thing. Mean-
time, Pecksniff is ashamed that anybody should
even suggest such a thing as a foundling home,
where the little immigrant would be taken in and
no questions asked. Pecksniff gasps : “ State
encouragement of immorality ! ” and the thing
drops. The State encouragement of murder
doesn’t matter. Even Pecksniff’s encourage-
ment of murder evidently doesn’t matter.
THE KINGSTO N MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :
Previously acknowledged ..£163 14 1
P. Craig-, W. A. 10 0
“ White Cane Cutter ” .. .. 11 6
Works Depot, Victorian Railways
(Oakleigh) 180
Total £166 13 7
The Fund is now closed ; and the contributions are being
forwarded to the committee in Adelaide. The form of the
memorial (which of course had to depend on the amount
forthcoming) will be announced later on.
“ Landsman ” : Among all the comments
on the shocking Penguin disaster, I have not
noticed any pointed reference to the fact that the
vessel was 45 years old. How much longer would
she have punched back and forth before her certi-
ficate would have been withheld ? Also what sort
of a system of watertight compartments did she
have ? Was there even a collision bulkhead ? The
latter were not introduced, I have always under-
stood, till the ’seventies.
The character of the Tory press and of the
Australian syndicated cable service is prettily
illustrated by the promptness with which the news
was flashed out from England that Pete Curran,
Labor M.P., had been fined 10s. for drunkenness
in a London street. Had he not been a Labor
M.P., there wouldn’t have been any of this won-
derful zeal. It recalls an accident that happened
to Gladstone when Beaconsfield was the Disraeli
of the House of Commons. Gladstone* getting
out of a cab in the street, slipped, sprained an
ankle, and had to be taken back to his home;
whereupon multitudes became excited, and the
House of Commons was bombarded with mes-
sages of inquiry, and the papers shrieked with
scare-heads. “If,” remarked Disraeli, dryly,
“ the incident had occurred to a less distinguished
pefson, it would have merely resulted in 10s. and
Costs.” If Pete Curran hadn’t been a Labor
member, he would, at worst, have merely been
put into a cab.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Dairymaids.” (>
Theatre Royal “The Duke s Motto.
Criterion .... “Jim the Penman.
Palace. “The Old Folks at Home.
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Opera House China-Ling-Soo.
I “ For the Term of His Natural
King’s f Life.”
Olympia ..... West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
♦
The frilly and frivolous “Dairymaids”
came back to Her Majesty’s (Sydney) last Satur-
day, and a large audience rejoiced over them, so
that even the roar of the usual Saturday night
rain-storm was only to be heard in the intervals.
Last year, when the Dairymaids were new ac-
quaintances, and the French polish was still on
the renovated jokes, dead jester Lauri, as Joe
Mivens, was one of the pillars of the show. In
the present production W. S. Percy, who was one
of the lamented mime’s co-workers, takes the
part; his dancing is excellent, and his singing—
more especially in the smart and brisk sea-serpent
song —is beyond reproach or remonstrance. Higgiti-
son, as Sam Brudenell, generally overacts ; he lets
up once or twice during the evening, but his bad
habit of forcing his points grows wearisome; in
the poaching duet with Percy he is at his best.
Tenor Roberts, as a sulky-looking schoolgirl, is un-
expectedly good ; one does not expect a tenor to
take kindly to low-comedy in skirts, but Reginald
is evidently that exceptional vocalist. Fan
l)ango is her flower-like self in the “ Tinker-
Tailor” song; Florence Young, with her cheerful
personality and her crystal top-note, is invaluable
to a show like the ’Maids, where the action of
the piece is liable to become impeded by un-
brilliant dialogue. Her part is not important,
but the fact that she is there, and liable to burst
into song, gives the audience a feeling of security.
Miss Susie Vaughan makes Miss Pyechase a real
live schoolmistress, and it is a stage-manager’s
object-lesson to see how her genuine acting holds
the scene together. (J. B. Atholwood recently
did the same good service for another musical-
comedy trifle under different management.) Of
the other parts, C. R. Bantock is again Dr.
O’Byrne; Connie Milne is Eliza; and Georgie
Musgrove is Lady Brudenell. The season has
only a currency of eleven nights, and, as four of
those have now gone, the public will have to run
hard to catch the maidens not forlorn who
wouldn’t have milked a cow with any sort of horn.
** * *
The Sydney Criterion programme men-
tions that “Jim the Penman,” which the Mcln-
tosh-Beatty Co. produced on Saturday night, is
nearly a quarter of a century old. It is hard to
realise it. Certainly, it does contain many of the
sentimental unrealities that especially marked the
drama of the early and mid-Victorian periods.
Lord Drelincourt’s way of announcing his en-
gagement is to draw his intended’s brother aside,
and in tones of soulful intensity to say, pointing
the while at his coat-lapel, “George! your sister
has given me a rose.” The modern young man
does not publish his happiness that way. But,
then, it is doubtful if any young man, unless on
the stage, ever did in any age.
* * * *
“ Jim the Penman,” like all melodramas,
puts the probabilities to a severe strain. Is it
possible for any Caucasian husband to be 20 years
in a “business” without disclosing the nature of
it to his wife? Surely not 1 Various criminals
were said at different times to have inspired the
character of James Ralston, but there was no
suggestion in the case of any one of them that
his female associates didn’t know of his guilt
for years before Nemesis tapped him on the
shoulder. It is an axiom of criminology that
the first person to- whom the ■ re-distributor
of property turns for sympathy is his wife,
whether she holds the title in the sight of Heavnn
or otherwise. The lady, unless she has ceased to
have any regard for her chief, always finds a mul-
titude of excuses for his conduct. The best of
women are liable to condone peculation, where
housemaid-kissing would produce in them a frenzy
of intolerant rage. It is for this reason that the
exaggerated horror and loathing expressed by
Mrs. Ralston on being told her husband’s profes-
sion seems unreal. Louis Percival, who, by means
of a marvellously well-forged letter, has been
separated from Mrs. Ralston in the long ago,
knows that Ralston is Jim the Penman. Yet hq
doesn’t suspect him of having written the letter.
Mrs. Ralston knows Ralston forged the letter that
induced her to break with Percival. Alsosheknows
that forgeries have trailed in the wake of her
mysterious spouse for a couple of decades. Yet
she is paralysed with astonishment when she
learns he is Jim the Penman. And he,
allegedly the wariest of malefactors, sits down
and gives himself away hopelessly and quite wan-
tonly by forging his wife’s name to a £5 cheque,
merely to save her the trouble of signing it her-
self. They are propositions which refuse to hold
one drop of critical fluid. As against these defects
there is the play’s fine simplicity and directness.
The audience learns, as is right, in the shortest
possible time, what Ralston has done, and
thereafter circumstances push him steadily,
inevitably on to his doom. There is the human
interest of it; and a boding sense of horror
that does not depend on sword conflicts
or railway accidents, or even on the drawing and
exploding at short intervals of Derringers. The
comic relief arrives naturally, and there is not too
much of it. If the writer were asked to select from
recent Sydney productions a model of stage com-
position for the Young Australian m.elodramatist
he would point unhesitatingly at “Jim the Pen-
man.”
* * * *
The acting is astonishingly good. Har-
court Beatty subdues his flaniboyant style with
an iron hand, and gives a sincere) restrained por-
trait of James Ralston. A more likely,Continental
than Gaston Mervale’s Baron Hartfeld the writer
has not seen in a theatre. After the travesties of
foreigners that are the order of the day on the
stage, Mervale’s study comes as a relief. Another
excellent character-sketch is the Captain Redwood
of James Lindsay. Miss Madge Mclntosh does
surpassingly well as Mrs. Ralston, and the inflexible
probity of Conway Wingfield’s Percival wins all
hearts.
“The Scarlet Pimpernel,” though still m
full bloom, is to be unbedded and retired to the
Sydney Royal conservatory after next Friday
night, in order to make way for “The Dukes
Motto.” In the new production, Julius Knight
has a part after the matinee maid’s own heart
—that, to wit, of Henri de Lagardere, “the best
blade from here to the world’s end” ; in a word, a
species of mediaeval Jack Johnson. There is a
good deal of “swearing,” “avenginer,” “rescuing,
etc., in “The Duke’s Motto.” and castle moats,
moonlight scraps, and sweltering gore are preva-
lent ; so the play is likely to boom somewhat, it
not more so.
** * *
“ The Old Folks at Home ” are leaning
heavily on a new Andrew Ross this week, Ernest
Leicester having assumed the responsibilities and
heroics of that high-minded orphan for the rest of
the season, which terminates on the evening of
Tuesday, March 9. After that date Sydney
Palace will no longer house the Elderly Indi-
viduals, who are shortly due in stormy Maoriland ;
and, in order that they may reach there, they will
have to be The Old Folks at Sea for a brief, un-
happy season.
** * *
Tom Woottwell, a comedian of worth, who
has been absent from these shores some years, has
returned to Sydney Tivoli ; also the ladies known
as the Two Bells have come back to dance in the
house of Rickards and to make glad the hearts of
the gods. When he was last here, Woottwell used
to sing a song called “ Slap-Dash ! ” or words to
that effect. It had reference to a whitewashing
job, and it has lingered sweetly in the writers
mind through several hard-fought years. Solemn
things have been forgotten utterly, but Woott-
well’s joyous inanity has defied the effacing hand
of Time. The only Cinquevalli is, of course, the
planet round whom the entertainment revolves;
besides Woottwell and the Bells, his chief satellites
are ventriloquist J. W. Winton, the Scottish
Meisters, Geoffrey and Benson, Lawson and
Namon, and the Four Rosebuds.
*■ * * *
At Sydney Lyceum Spencer’s Theatre-
scope is having a broken shift, but will re-open
permanently again this coming Saturday, when
the voice of the chronomegaphone will be heard.
At West’s Glaciarium the chief item is the “ re-
vival ” of the story of Red Hand, which has been
described before. The pictures of Messina, before
and after the earthquake, are a depressing spec-
tacle; the sight of a wrecked city and processions
carrying corpses is too gruesome and horrible an
affair for general view. If such sights are shown
they should be fixed up in some place where the
people who love gaiety and fun, to which the
cinematograph particularly lends itself, will not
have to endure one small slice of gaiety sand-
wiched between two great slabs of disaster and
sudden death.
** * *
The calm sea of success which bore “ Jack
and Jill” upon its bosom for the first 10 weeks of
the panto, season at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne)
is just now agitated somewhat by a wave of
patriotism. The principal feature of the revised
edition of “Jack and Jill” is full of Australian
Navy sentiment. Every night, likewise at the
matinees, Bert Gilbert assures the audience that
this bit of the world belongs to Us, and
enthusiasm of Us is all that it ought to be. Ihe
wave of patriotism is a silver-crested matter.
There’s money in it, and the Saturday night over-
flow continues as before. Many other things are
HER MAJESTY’S
PANTOMIME ,
MELBOURNE.
VICTOR LOYDAL
as Perks.
J. CAMPBELL
as the Dame.
as before at Her Majesty’s; but somehow the
time for ringing down the curtain on the glitter-
ing palace of precious stones is fully 15 minutes
too late. Every minute after 11 p.m. that is
added to the length of a panto, indicates a loss of
rapidity in the action. And seeing that the closing
scene of “Jack and Jill” is a feast of splendor
which nobody would willingly miss, it ought not
to be delayed to the point where an audience
grows restive.
** * *
“Cinderella” is still prospering at the
Royal, and the advt. thusfar breathes no sugges-
tion of what will happen when the Baron’s only
daughter parts company with her fairy god-
mother, and the old family gathering breaks up.
** # *
At the King’s a revival of “His Natural
Life ” is billed for Saturday next, when Dawes,
Maurice Frere, Gabbett, and the Moocher will
appear'again in the late Alfred Dampier’s version
of Marcus Clarke’s rather-forgotten story. The
revival is being made ready by Baker; and
meanwhile that clean-shaven citizen is discover-
ing the corpse of Partner Ned under circumstances
that leave his eyesight open to doubt. Ned was
stabbed in the back before Baker came along to
shake hands with him, but the enters
their cabin with the dead man’s back in full view
of him, and draws near to the corpse and talks to
its perforated back without perceiving any evi-
dence of the gory tragedy. This outrage on one’s
sense of probability might have been avoided .by
shifting the locality of the corpse so as to give
the bleeding wound a reasonable chance of escap-
ing Baker’s observation. Perhaps it doesn’t
matter. In melodrama nothing matters, as long
as the corpse gets there somehow.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us, Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney,*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The dates of Melba’s forthcoming concerts
at Melbourne Town Hall were stated in last
Bulletin. The songstress will utter her world-
renowned warble on Tuesday 9th, and Saturday
the 13th. Frederick Ranalow, an Irish baritone
of suitable eminence, is to make his first Aus-
tralian appearances at these concerts; and the
star will be otherwise helped by Marshall
Hall’s orchestra. Prices are a guinea, a half-
guinea, and ss. for unreserved seats.
XX X X
At Melbourne Opera House a conjuring
illusionist, who presents himself and his belongings
as a Chinese show, promises to make his Rickards
engagement a cause for satisfaction all round.
Chung Ling Soo, the mock Mongolian in question,
differs from all previous magicians known to this
country. There is nothing strikingly novel in the
things he does—as regards most of them, anyhow
—but his manner of performing is quite new to
Australia. Other conjurors have been quick and
loquacious. Chung Ling Soo is slow and silent.
He holds the floor for 40 minutes without say-
ing a word or wasting time in by-play. Not-
withstanding Chung’s style of hair-dressing and
his gorgeous satin knickers and jumper, one is
reminded all the time of the late Robert Brough
by his deportment, his deliberately easy method
of proceeding, and his trick of raising his brows
and half-opening his mouth. Chung is dryly
debonair and self-possessed. He would seem to
deprecate amazement among the audience whilst
endeavoring to amaze. All smart conjurors
heighten the effect of their mechanical deceptions,
performed with the assistance of sleight-of-hand,
by affecting a rather supernatural unconcern; and
the man at the Opera House is a finished
artist in this respect. He plays the old
tricks with graceful variations. One of them
is so old that it comes new to the present
generation. Chung eats fire in the first place,
and then devours cotton-wool stuff, after
which he puffs smoke from his mouth, and finally
expectorates morsels of smouldering material.
This by way of departure from the business of
producing unaccountable things from empty
cylinders, and so forth. His illusions are chiefly
the sudden revelation of a very decorative lady in
a glass meat-safe that hangs in mid-air and seemed
transparently empty until the oooupant came to
light; the appearance of a very small lady (his
wife) in place of a pyramid of boxes ; and an
emergence of live poultry, followed by the same
small lady, from a cauldron into which water is
poured whilst flames are licking its circumference.
The entertainment is sufficiently astounding to
the wise majority that doesn’t w'orry about the
working of the miracles. The entertainer con-
ducts it admirably. And —let it be again stated—
he doesn’t talk. There are times when the
orchestra is silent likewise, and then the effect is
especially soothing.
XX X X
West’s show at Melbourne Olympia con-
tinues to supply its usual “good blow-out” at
usual prices. The fare embraces 17 items, and is
heartily received with thanks. To particularise
the fare would be like particularising a fruit
salad ; but it may be said that “ The Gorges of
d’el Kantara,” Algeria, is an excellent picture of
uncommon people and uncommon scenery, and
that “Training the Young Savage in Mashona-
land ” is a good illustration of how black brudder
becomes a Christian.
At Melbourne Grlaciarium, where Tait’s
Pictures are showing, a young woman is demon-
strating how it is possible to chase a goose without
being arrested as a lunatic ; and a lady named
Psyche is making efforts to appear as a mythical
enchantress. Also, the troubles at Pompeii and
Messina are repeating themselves without reserve.
XX X X
Instead of the “ Vision of Salome,” which
seemingly faded out of notice at the Athenaeum
Hall last week, Melbourne is now getting a Pixie
at St. George’s Hall. The Pixie is a male person
of some 101 b. weight., who amounts to a larger
object of human interest than a Fat Girl of 40
times his avoirdupois. At the Bijou a gloomy
season of music, song, and struggle came to a dim,
mysterious end the other night; but on Saturday,
6th, the house will be reopened by a cinemato-
graph maestro. The new show is to carry the
comprehensive title of “The World’s Pictures,”
which leaves no visible room for anyone to go or.e
better.
XX X X
Cheapness is the leading feature of Ade-
laide’s amusements just now. You could get into
all its six evening shows for 4s. 3d., and couldn’t
spend more than about 11s. 6d. on them if you
were Brewster of the millions. The Royal has re-
vived the old thrill of the lady who escapes from a
burning building by telephone. Olympia and the
Pavilion are showing pictures, and the Blacks
have come to the Town Hall with more films to
help out their music. On the other hand, the
Continental Gardens have been driven to suspend
operations by the Cow from the Country; in other
words, their pitch is wanted for the Agricultural
Show. The Tivoli, with the Atans and the St.
Leons, makes fine acrobatic work the backbone of
its programme. Goodfellow and Miss Gregson
have gone back to England. The lady has a look
of pained surprise which is a valuable asset; as
she wears it whenever the gentleman either smites
or insults her, it is on duty most of the time.
This house has been trying a pathetic baby-and-
burglar sketch; unfortunately it is played by
favorite comedians, and a puzzled house keeps
wondering when they are going to be funny.
Carden Wilson has some good imitations. As
Widow O’Brien, or as Howard Vernon, he is the
real thing. But at the art of taking-off, a lady
from Vienna has them all beaten ; she calls her-
self the Golden Venus, and runs a one-woman
show every half-hour in a Rundle-street shop.
From the Oldest Inhabitant, whose eye-
sight seems to be still remarkably keen
“F.C.” (B. 25/2/’O9) omits one notable Judge from his
list of those who did duty in the old Melbourne Court.,
now being demolished in Latrobe-street. That is Roger
Therry, who was called to the Irish Bar in 1824, and was
one of Daniel O’Connell’s earliest friends. In 1829 he
came to Australia and held some minor appointments in
Sydney. He became Attorney-General in 1841, and was a
member of the old Council for some years. After that he
was Resident Judge at Port Phillip till the early part of
1846, when he became a Judge of the Supreme Court at
Sydney and primary Judge in Equity. His “Thirty
Years’ Reminiscenoes in New South Wales” raised such a
commotion among the Upper Ten that the first edition
was called in, and the second was modified. Before Mr.
Therry went to Melbourne the position was accepted by
J. B. Darvall; but when he got to Melbourne he could
not find a bed anywhere to his fancy, so he returned to
Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“D.”: The following appeared in the dailies apropos
the new Criterion (Sydney)production : “The revival of
‘ Jim the Penman ’ is the more interesting by reason of
the fact that the famous original was only released from
prison a few months ago.” The yarn is demonstrably
foolish. The public has fixed on scores of allegedly
“ original Penmans ”in the last couple of decades. Ral-
ston has been identified as often and as variously as the
Man in the Iron Mask. One so-called inspirer of the char-
acter was Sir J. Dean Paul, father of the famous Mrs.
Atherton. At one time almost anyone in Europe who was
well-to-do and got into trouble, stood to be accused of
being the Penman. But there are other and better argu-
ments against the assertion that some recently-discharged
convict suggested to Young the plot of his play. “The
Penman ” was first produced in 1886. Assume that it
was only a year after the original Ralston got gaoled that
his story was written and staged. That gives James
about 24 years in gaol, if the story about his recent dis-
charge is correct. But forgers don’t get life-sentences in
the Cold Land. Even reprieved murderers are freed after
15 years. Romantic the daily-paper tale is and interest-
heightening ; but it is not water-tight. In fact, it is not
too much to say that it is an anecdotal cullender.
Notwithstanding the record of 21 pantos, running at
various city and suburban theatres of London last
Boxing Day, this old form of Anglieised-Italian entertain-
ment is really losing ground in the Big Smoke. Nowa-
days there are so many houses that don’t have pantomimes,
whereas 60 years ago the disease was universal. From a
book, published by Thomas Marshall, it appears that 13
theatres were open in London in December, 1846, and
that each of them had a pantomime or “ fairy extrava-
ganza ”in addition to a drama or a farce. At the cheaper
theatres the performance started at 6.30 ; at Drury Lane
the curtain rose at 6.45 ; elsewhere at 7 o’clock. The
Lyceum bill was “Battle of Life” and “a new panto,
entitled ‘The Butterfly’s Ball.’” With the exception
of “The Forty Thieves ” at Astley’s, none of the pantos,
were based on the popular nursery legends or Arabian
Nights stories. The old themes had just then been
worked to a standstill, and the demand was for origin-
ality,’or something that looked like it. Yet even at the
time when every theatre ran a panto, there were Jere-
miahs who tried to believe that the public taste for
frivolity was something new and unnatural. Thomas
Marshall aforesaid wrote : “ Farce was originally a droll
or petty show, exhibited by buffoons in the open street.
The word is French and signifies literally forced meat or
stuffing. Farce disallows of all laws, or rather sets
them aside on all occasions. Its end is merely to raise a
laugh, no matter why or wherefore. Hence the dialogue
is generally low, the persons represented of inferior rank,
the fable or action trivial or ridiculous, and nature and
truth everywhere heightened and exaggerated to afford
the more palpable ridicule. Thus the playwrights do
not seek honor, but pander for a trifling profit.” The
same disrespectful things are still written against farce.
Ever since the days of Noah, in fact, every generation has
been quite sure that public taste was going to the dogs.
“Vulcan”: The well-informed British editor is a
treasure. This is what he (of the Era) has to say re the
late George Lauri: “ Mr. Lauri was an ardent sportsman,
and owned several racehorses. His influence in the pro-
motion of charity was phenomenal, and it was generally
admitted that he could collect more money for philan-
thropic purposes than anybody in the Commonwealth,
not even excepting the Governor-General himself. He
had only to walk about amongst the merchants and plead
his cause, and money would roll in t» whatever extent he
desired. When any charitable object was mooted he was
always first in the field, and he presided over practically
every charity in the city.” Even poor George himself was
never responsible for a broader joke than that.
Covent Garden, London, is producing a new English
opera, “The Angelus,” winner of a £soo’ prize competi-
tion. The author, Wilfrid Thornely, seems to have gone
on the semi-religious lines of “Parsifal” and “The
Golden Legend.” An old abbot has discovered the secret
of an Elixir of Life, but Death calls for him before he can
go to gather the chief herb for it. He hands on the
recipe to young Francis, a novice. Other scenes show
Francis on his travels, Francis dancing on the village
green, and Francis sighing for one Beatrice ; then the en-
chanted grove where the herb grows. As written, the
opera ends with Death coming for Beatrice just as
Francis returns in triumph with the elixir ; but a more
cheerful finish is likely to be arranged. The composer,
Woodall Naylor, makes great play with three airs, one for
Death, one for the Elixir, and the third for the Angelus,
which has a way of ringing at most of the important
situations.
“ Stargazer ” : One has to admire the buoyance of the
actor man ; his vanity is the last thing he parts with.
Put a writer who thinks he should be a popular novelist
or a prosperous poet to write ads. for a quack pill, and he
sinks under the shame of it, and hides from his friends
and acquaintances ; but the ac-tor loses not a jot of
swagger nor a shred of his magnificence when brought to
most insignificant parts. I met a star of other nights in
Bourke-street recently. He was leaning on a bin with
his accustomed abandon ; he was smoking a fragmentary
cigar with his old grace ; he flashed his 2d.-a-dozen
diamonds as recklessly as ever. “Still in the game?” I
said. “Still in it, my boy,” he replied heartily, “ and
still to the front.” Five hours later I saw him “ spruich-
ing ” for a cat-and-monkey show and a lady sword-
swallower on a suburban lot.
The biograph must be cutting into the theatres. In
Melbourne there are over a dozen showing, some nightly,
some weekly, and almost as many on Sundays for “ silver-
coin admission.” Now cheery shows begin to entice
people out to the end of the tram-lines, where pictures,
singers, refreshments, etc., make up the nearest approach
to the dreadful “Continental Sabbath” that lias yet
shocked Yarraside goody-goodies.
“ Grey Heron “Noah” (B. 11/2/’O9) falls into error
concerning Young, contemporary of Kemble. Charles
Mayne Young, tragedian (not Itev.) 4 was born 1777, died
1856. He married an actress and beauty, Julia Grimani,
and had one son, the Rev. Julian Charles Young, Court
Chaplain to William IV. In ’7l the Rev. published an
interesting diary, stuffed with amusing anecdotes, and
prefaced by a short Life of his father.
The girls of the famous ballet at La Scala are appren-
ticed to the management as children for five years, their
parents or guardians paying a nominal fee when they sig:n
the indentures. The damsels are well cared for, and at
night there is an omnibus to carry them from the stage
door to their homes. At the end of the five years’appren-
ticeship they arrive at the front row' of the ballet—the
youngest and most accomplished front row in the w'orld.
“S.S.”: I see a “ cheap, unconsumable cigar ” offered
for sale in Melbourne. Most cheap cigars are unconsum-
able, but this is really a pipe built to closely resemble a
cigar. Intended, evidently, for the use of myself and
other poor but proud dwellers on Poverty Point.
“S.S.” : Actors and actresses in vaudeville and panto-
mime continue to take liberties with the audience. The
device of picking a miserable fellow-creature out of the
front rows of the stalls and singing at him till, in his
great confusion, he wishes he were dead, has passed in
favor of a mirror act. The songstress, with the aid of a
hand-glass, turns a flood of fierce white light on an un-
obtrusive bald person in some part of the house, and
makes him conspicuous and ignominious by this disagree-
able attention and the distressingly familiar quality of
her chorus. Often the victim is disgusted, but I have
only heard one enter a protest. He was a fierce, elderly
man in a Melbourne theatre the other night. Rising
abruptly and making angry gestures, he cried : “ Con-
found it, madam ! Am I here for your amusement, or
are you here for mine ? ”
“Star” : She played Juliet for one consecutive night at
Melbourne Royal many years ago, and played the part
under the mistaken impression that Juliet was a mincing
miss with a giggle and a quaint habit of chewing her
handkerchief to show girlish perturbation. “Romeo,
Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo?” she cried. Then
came the awful voice from up aloft. “If it comes to
that, why the are you Juliet?” Then Shakspeare’s
masterpiece was suspended to allow the audience to com-
pose itself, and to give Juliet time to mop her tears.
The musical Castles sisters, who have had a lot of
gratuitous booming, chanced to give themselves a uniquely
flaring advt. last week —all along of a celluloid comb.
Miss Dolly was drying her luxuriant blonde hair when she
set fire to her celluloid comb, whereupon But here
it is :
“ Circle An amusing character rarely mentioned by
Poverty Pointers was Jimmy Allison, of the old Mel-
bourne Opera House. Jimmy was a Pacific Slope bruiser
in the roaring days ; also a saloon-keeper ; and in various
other ways he led the strenuous life in the Land of the
Wooden Ham. After he had struck ile he came to Mel-
bourne. When he first took over the Opera House he
knew nothing of the business ; but be soon found his way
around. A hard worker himself, he was a regular Legree
to his underlings. At a rehearsal at the Opera House one
day, when poor old Van Geld was conducting, Jimmy
bustled in and noticed the trombone man was taking it
easy. “Hello, why ain’t you playing?” asked Jimmy.
“Ten bars rest, sir,” said the trombonist. “Rest be
damned ! ” roared Jimmy. “ I pay you for playing’ ! You
go right along and draw your money.” Even after Van
Geld’s elaborate explanation with whisky Jimmy
thought he was being got at in some way.
“ S.S." : A naturally-depraved taste took me to see the
young person acting’ as a terpsichorean head-hunter at
Melbourne Athenaeum. I was disappointed. The dancing
might have been so much better and the dressing so
much —worse. The only thing that interested me was
this scrap of conversation from a bored party of three at
the back. “She danced for What-d’-yeh-callim’s head,
don’t you know ! ” “Did she? By Jove 1 Who got the
rest of him?”
“ Stargazer ” : Was at a curious first-night in Mel-
bourne the other Saturday. The show was advertised
with an elaborate air of mystery, eloquent of amateurism
and incapacity, and I was not unduly astonished on find-
ing an old, familiar and uncommonly bad comedy strug-
gling under a new name and against adversity in the
shape of a company of collected amateurs who worked
like bullocks, and whose hard work produced even harder
effects. Had a front stalls seat, which was worth while,
as I got the play twice over for one price of admission—
once from the prompter, and once from the players.
There was a houseful of the friends and relations of the
performers. The gifted management had even taken the
wise precaution of putting tried and trusted friends
into the orchestra. I know the orchestra was a
blood relation of the company, because it was
delighted with the show, and in an experience
ranging over 25 years this was the first orchestra I had
ever met that showed genuine appreciation of the players
and the piece. The big fiddle was overjoyed, the cornet
applauded rapturously, the little fiddle never stopped
grinning, and the flute had to cease playing at important
points to revolve on his own axis arid roar. The audience
ivas equally delig’hted ; it showered applause and gera-
niums on young ladies and gentlemen whose acting was
rapidly eating away my prejudice against capital punish-
ment. Presently the awful truth dawned upon me—l
was the only person present who had paid. The feeling
was demoralising; it induced a nerve-racking self-con-
sciousness. I felt that every eye in the house was on
me—that ray shame w'as known. I reached for my hat,
and stumbled down the aisle, and as I fell into the vesti-
bule the house roared at my heels, like a monster baffled
of its prey.
“ Stalls ” : Is O. R. Stanford(lately appearing at Sydney
Palace) not merely a sound actor but also a practised pug?
There is much to support the theory. He spars with an
imposing crouch round almost every other member of the
co., and always carries with him the demeanor of
the alert and carefully-trained disciple of Stoush. In
the fractured home scene, when the enraged heroine
casts her gew-gaws and finery at his teeth, Stanford’s
defensive pose is a gem, and vividly suggests the ring’.
Note also the wallop with which he fells the uncouth
mute factotum of the establishment when this individual
persists in staring sullenly at him. This latter is a dupli-
cate of the Sums jolt. Aspiring exponents of the
gentle art of stoush, in search of a few gratuitous hints,
could do worse than pay this show a visit.
“ Bloggs ” : The bill of the play at Sydney Cri. gives
the villain’s name as Baron Hartfield. A thrill came over
me as I read it. This loathsome intriguer has been at
different times a member of almost every aristocracy ex-
cept the British. The title “ Hartfield ” looked English or
nothing. It would be truly absorbing to see Ralston’s
destroyer played as a member of the House of Lords. The
original Baron was a Frenchman—Baron Hauteville.
Then Beerbohm Tree, one of whose specialties is the
portrayal of Teuton, Polish or Russian Jews, changed
Hauteville to Hartfeld, introduced a few “ Ain’dt its?”
and so forth into his lines, and in alliance with E. S.
Willard made a hug-e hit. A stage-mad relative of mine
in London was never tired of raving to me about Tree’s
marvellous make-up and “ character ” work as Hartfeld.
I was in America in 1902, and a “ Jim the Penman ” 00.
was working the western towns with a chief undesirable
who was represented as a burst Chicago millionaire.
It was opined, locally, that the Chicago accent of the
actor who was cast for Hartfeld was so strong that it
would have been fatal to entrust him with any role other
than that of a native of the Windy City'. Presumably,
the name Hartfield on the Ori. programme is a misprint.
Anyhow, Mervale plays the part on Beerbohm Tree lines,
making of the Baron a Polish or Russian Jew.
The one cheerful feature in the report of
the officials of the Sydney Clerks’ Union is that
the best-paid clerks as a rule are those working
for the manufacturers. Their condition isn’t any-
thin" extra, and the feather in the manufacturers’
cap isn’t any more conspicuous than it ought to
be ; but, on the other hand, the flock of importers’
and other agents don’t wear any sort of feather
at ail.
The yawning Empty Cradle in France has
led to a relaxing of the stringent conditions which
formerly hedged marriage about with difficulties.
The size of those difficulties can be realised in part
by a glance at one of the provisions of the new
Act : men and women over 30 can now marry
entirely without regard to consent of parents.
Last year was the first in which this new law was
at work, and France had 8000 more marriages than
in 1907.
“Adolphus Atfcic ” watches a boarding-
house tragedy : —
This is a story which shows how fresh air and exercise
nearly ruined the director of fourteen companies.
There dwells in our boarding-house a lusty young man
who gets up early and goes rowing and swimming, and
who is, in consequence, offensively healthy. When he
first came, he endeavored to get one of us to join in his
annoying exercises, but after a month or so he gave up
trying to drag us from the beds for which we pay so
liberally, and went forth alone to accumulate needless
muscle and a boisterous brand of humor. One evening
we found at the tea-table a dignified old gentleman
garbed in a white waistcoat —and a few other odds and
ends of clothing. The landlady told us that he was a
Mr. Caketucker, a director of fourteen companies, whose
wife and family had gone to the Mountains for two
months’ holiday. The family mansion had been let for
that period, and Caketucker had come to board at Drab-
kennel. He looked very livery and bad-tempered, and
the scorn with which he regarded all of us froze up the
serial debate on religion which had enlivened the evening
meal for months and kept the household hatreds blazing
brightly through the long, dreary winter.
The only lodger he looked upon with favor was Splasher,
the exercise maniac. Splasher rhapsodised about health
and good food and early-morning rowing ; arid Cake-
tucker listened attentively. He urged Caketucker to
come out next morning, and the old gentleman, after
some demur, agreed. He duly rose and went forth, and
he liked it so much that he arranged to go again on the
following day. By the end of the week the exercise habit
had a grip on him.
J ust about that time the deterioration in Caketucker’s
character began to be apparent. From a health point of
view—which, of course, was Splasher’s point of view—he
was a much-improved man ; but, from what may be
termed a city aspect, he had depreciated in value. An
appearance of exuberant and reckless vitality had replaced
the old cautious and risk-dodging look. The white waist-
coat collected moths in the wardrobe, while a loose, dis-
reputable sweater which allowed his figure to sag in front
took its place. He shouted like a schoolboy at the
dinner-table instead of growling, and when one' night he
went into town with Splasher he came back with his hat
over one eye, and told the senior old maid a 600-volt joke
that hadn’t met anything in the feminine gender for
forty-oddyears. Fortunately, the old maid didn’t under-
stand it.
Caketucker progressed on this low level for about a
fortnight before he took his next drop. Then he came
home one night smelling of whisky, and told Splasher in
a youthful, devil-may-care manner that he had made a
bad loss through being too optimistic, but thathe “didn’t
give a damn anyhow.” He invited Splasher to have a
night out. Splasher went, and they returned, singing,
in a cab at 3.30 next morning. In his normal state of
health, such an outing would have laid Caketucker low
for at least 48 hours ; in his disgracefully healthy state,
he suffered only from a mild sore head.
That was the end of Caketucker. He plunged into
dissipation with all the recklessness of old age made
young, and he didn’t reform until he was fined 40s. or a
month for beating a cabman over the head with his
umbrella. Then his wife, in a Merry Widow hat that
went five laps to the mile, and a silk dress that cost more
than Drabkennel and all the boarders inside it,
rushed down from the Blue Mountains and dragged him
out of the evil influence of Splasher and back to decent
society.
I saw 7 Caketucker on the boat yesterday. His old look
had come back ; the white waistcoat once more enclosed
his figure as if it had been sewn and ironed on him ; and
he glared at the shopgirls and clerks about him, and
snorted in a way that showed his liver had regained its
control of his nervous system. From the upper deck I
saw Splasher spring on to the boat as it was leaving; and
old Caketucker frowned and gave him a nod and a snort.
I think that Caketucker now realises (a) that a liver is an
asset to a sedate businessman; and (6) that young men
of the Splasher type are not desirable acquaintances.
I am inclined to agree with him about (a) ; about (6) I
have no doubt whatever.
THE LADY HAMLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw her many years ago,
But still to memory clings the quaint,
Distressing humors of that show.
She buried Hamlet deep in paint,
And he was short and very fat;
And on a head extremely large
He bore an organ monkey’s hat.
So much she did his tights o’er-charge,
His back was like a Dutchman’s barge.
The Prince of Denmark’s royal knees
Were sadly knocked, and—oh, the luck !
Light stays occasioned Hamlet’s wheeze.
He swaggered like a Dorkin duck.
A small goatee the hero had,
And tiny “high-lows” made him wince.
I’m often asked : “ Was Hamlet mad ?”
Not up to then, I think, poor prince !
But mad he has been ever since.
Victoria.
SILAS.
Miss Dolly was drying her hair
(Which was, seemingly, damp)
In front of a fire (the submarine wire
Didn’t mention a lamp)—
Miss Dolly was drying her hair.
The heat caused her comb to ignite—
A combustible thing ;
She saw in affright that her hair was alight,
And she started to sing
When the heat caused her comb to ignite.
Miss Amy, her sister, was near,
And, greatly concerned,
She put out the blaze in the usual ways,
But, alas ! she was burned —
Miss Amy, who chanced to be near.
And burned was Miss Dolly as well;
And the Cable asserts
That both sisters complain of suffering pain—
The result of their hurts—
For burned was Miss Dolly as well.
The Avatar Returns.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is beginning to be a little stir in Federal politics.
Mr. Joseph Cook has promised to deliver three addresses,
commencing next week. The first one will be in the
Adelaide Towm Hall on March 4, and will be under the
auspices of the Women’s National League.— Daily paper.
I hear, as ’tw'ere from realms afar,
A great and joyous shout:
“ ’Ooray ! Be’old the Haoatar 1
Jokook ’s a-comin’ out ! ”
Loud trumpets sound and fireworks flare,
The rocket-sticks fall slosh,
And happiness beams everywhere—
Oh, glad is Anti-Sosh !
Vast quantities are now consumed
Of peanuts, lemon-squash,
And bubbly drinks —the Curse is doomed,
They cheer for Anti-Sosh !
Despising weather and fatigue,
And gay as acrobats,
Comes forth the gentle Wimmen’s League
In Merry Widow hats ! *
And here, see here, a noble band
(In Germany ’twas made),
That leads that bulwark of the land —
The League of Foreign Trade !
And fat—yea, gloriously fat—
White waistcoat, turned-in toes,
And, topped with tall and shining hat,
The Cronk Importer goes 1
Immaculate, Immense, Superb,
Devoid of cark and care,
With nicely-chosen noun and verb,
The great Spruce Myth is there !
Sleek, loyal, royal, stuffed with brains,
The Wonder and the Wit—
Gorsave the King !—Our Spruce remains
The sole, unquestioned it !
The frenzied crowd acclaims them all
As they march proudly by.
Yet one there is whose glances fall,
With cold and haughty eye,
Upon the hosts of Anti-Sosh,
Upon the cheering mob,
And Representatives of Splosh—
The Bloke who had the Job !
What thoughts burn underneath his hat !
What scorn stirs in his eyes !
The man who armed the hosts of Fat
With Busted Marriage-Ties?
“Ha ! ha ! ” Oh, dreadful is his sneer ;
Tossing his eyeglass far :
“ Jokook indeed ! 'Tis but a year
Since I was Avatar ! ”
I hear, as in some dream that burns
Like sun-rays in a brook,
The cry ; “ Our Havatar returns ! ”
But now he’s called Jokook.
N.S.W.
VAG TROMP.


Z N.
B
The SHIRT for COMFORT
The Shirt illustrated is designed essentially
for comfort.
It is made of Ceylon Flannel, a beautifully
soft material of medium weight that gives
with tlje motions of the body. It has soft
turn-back cuffs, and is in every way very much
more comfortable than the old style “stiff”
shirt. In pretty stripe designs. All sizes.
The Price is 7/6.
Please state size of Linen Collar worn when
ordering.
We send this Shirt carriage paid throughout
the Commonwealth on the understanding that
should it on receipt not prove entirely satis-
factory, it may be returned and purchase
money will be refunded.
David Jones Ltd.,
Sydney.
I
Professional Photographers
ARE LOSING BUSINESS
WHEN NOT USING
“ARTLYTE”
is a
FAST
PRINTING
GASLIGHT
PAPER.
“ARTLYTE
PAPER and
POSTCARDS
It is an Extremely Fast Gaslight Paper. The ONLY GLOSSY paper free from scum
markipgs, and, above all, it is FRESH. The WHITES are always pure and the Blacks
are rich. Made in ALL SURFACES and usual sizes by the Empire Works Co., Sydney,
and is absolutely PURE and Reliable.
“CORALYTE” (Bromide Paper; is the Perfection of
Photo. Paper. All surfaces and sizes, and in Postcards.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
PRINCIPAL DISTRIBUTORS,
PREMIER IMPORTERS OF CAMERA AND PHOTO. MATERIALS,
386 George Street, near G.P.0., 179 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY. 93 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
The Warrnambool (Vic.) Standard’s
“ Almanac and Guide for 1909 ” mentions that the
local Museum has the first piano introduced in
Victoria, formerly owned by Mrs. S. G. Henty, of
Portland. Also, it possesses relics of Fawkner’s
pioneer schooner, the Enterprise, and some trifles
associated with Shakspeare, Napoleon, Leich-
hardt; Burke and Wills, etc. There is likewise
the famous prehistoric slab of sandstone, with
prints of human feet. Melbourne is trying to
summon up enough cheek to ask Premier Murray
(of Warrnambool); to have these things stolen and
shunted to the Bloated Metropolis.
When Parson Scott was fired out of his
curefof souls at Alexandra (Vic.) by his Grace of
Wangaratta, and the Rev. Peck was appointed in
his place, it might have been supposed that the
Suppression of Scott was finished ; but that was
reckoning without Scott. He declined to openly
battle for possession of the House of God, but ho
stuck to the Manse, and in spite of law processes,
bailiffs, and other emissaries of the Church, he
still sticks. Last week the Rev. Peck, aided by
another rev. gentleman, and supported by six
carpenters, proceeded to the Manse in Scott’s
temporary absence, and removed the roof.
When he got back and found nothing but
Heaven above him, the Rev. Scott hast-
ened to Melbourne, secured an injunction
restraining the carpentering party, then skipped
back to Alexandra, ran up a cursory compartment
six feet by eight, and once more he and his two
savage dogs occupied the remains of the Manse
and the site thereof. As soon as his opponent,
the Church, got its eye on the injunction it also
rushed to the Law, and explained that Scott’s
statement was quite one-sided ; and though the
Law seemed eager to shoo both parties off its
premises, it finally compromised by declining to
extend the injunction any further. So, as matters
stand, the Church is at liberty to gather up the
Rev. Scott, his goods and chattels, his 6xB
humpy and his two savage dogs, and deposit them
jointly and severally off the site. But, judging by
the Rev. Scott’s previous proceedings, including
the utter rout of a bailiff, the contract is liable to
bring the Church some trouble and the towns-
people considerable joy.
* * * *
The amazing gullibility of human nature
was on exhibition again in a recent case at
Bendigo, when Amelia Murray, of South Yarra,
was charged with obtaining £l5 from John Hynes
by false pretences. The evidence showed that the
lady, who advertised herself as a “ faith healer,”
had undertaken to cure Hynes’ son of hip disease
—“in six weeks he would walk without limp or
ache or pain. She would cure him by her power
of magnetic healing; and her charge would be
£15.” Hynes paid the £l5, and the worker of
wonders began by “closing her eyes and lightly
passing her hands over the lad’s body.” Appa-
rently she was doubtful of her “ faith ” that day,
for she also handed the lad’s mother “some
herbs, like chips,’’ to lie boiled and con-
sumed with gin, and a tin of ointment to be
rubbed on the spine. The boy was also to have a
hot bath daily, the water to be liberally dosed
with washing soda and salt. As the lad suffered
considerably, the wonder-worker was consulted
again. This time she ordered the mother to get a
football and let the youngster kick it well with
his bad leg. Also she recommended him to pray
fervently and freely. She urged the parents not
on any account to let a doctor touch the boy with
a knife, as “in the olden days God never used a
knife”; and apparently it didn’t occur to them
to ask whether iei olden days God used a football.
They simply did as they were told and asked no
questions. At last, however, as the lad grew no
better, Hynes demanded his £l5 back, and, being
refused, charged the lady with obtaining money
by false pretences. There was some likelihood
that the Law would view the matter seriously ;
but it was one of the Law’s placid days, so in the
end it meekly adjourned the business for a fort-
night in the astounding hope that “it could be
settled in the meantime.”
THE OPPRESSION OF RICHES.
The Mutual Loan Agency Co., which was
fined £l5OO for running a lottery, has lost its
appeal to the N.S.W. State Supreme Court, and,
failing further litigation, may be considered
fatally dead. The Mutual Co. advertised sub-
scription lists at ss. each. Every sub criber
received a “share warrant” entitling hill to a
chance in a ballot whereby he might,find himself
entitled to a loan of £lOOO. This thousand was
hedged in by a few conditions, which could be
avoided by accepting £7OO cash. In 50 years the
subscribers would all get their ss. back—if they
lived. The Law guessed that the contrivance was
a sweep, and the Full Court has decided that the
Law for once guessed right.
The Japanese have erected their first
public monument in Australia. Broome, the
windy town in the far nor’-west of Westralia,
claims the unsightly edifice ; it has been built
of black and white 'granite, and perpetuates the
memory of those Japs who went under during the
cyclones and willy-willies which, a while ago,
shattered the Northern pearling fleets. But
what raises a large lump in the throat of the good
white Australian of those parts is the piebald ness
of the granite of which the monument is built. It
looks too much like a prophecy.
LOVE OR
MONEY.
BARMAID (to frequent and affectionate customer):
“ No, Charlie, if I marry it will be for love,
not money. You know I am right.”
CHARLIE (sadly): “ Yes, Maudie, yes. I know
which you'd give me the most beer for.”
A little strike that was willing while it
lasted, but didn’t last long, fizzled out in Mel-
bourne last week. The boys who clear the garbage
from the streets during the busy hours decided
that their 15s. per week ought to be 18s., even if
it wasn’t 215., so they ceased toiling. Unfortun-
ately they didn’t get any further. When the
council met one of the seven fat aldermen puffily
enquired why the boys weren’t at work, but
nobody seemed to know anything for certain
though the papers had given all the facts days
before. Finally, after five days’ war, the conflict
subsided without disaster. A certain tenderness
was, however, noticeable among some of the lads.
Their parents had promised them the ‘‘father of a
hammering” if they didn’t return to work, and
their mates had also vouchsafed them an old-man
walloping if they went blacklegging, and a few
of them seemed to have got both. But the par-
ental hand was evidently the heavier, so the
parental view prevailed.
Police-Magistrate Creswell, of Melbourne,
decided last week that it may be quite a fair
thing for an ex-policeman to urge a practising
member of the force to mind his own business. A
man, who had been a copper in another part of
the world, asked a man who was at that moment
the same trifling amount in Victoria, where the
Grand Hotel was. The Victorian, instead of
directing him in a few well-chosen words, started
to cross-examine the ex-, and the ex- abruptly
advised him to devote his attention to his calling.
An arrest and a charge of insulting behavior im-
mediately followed, with the result that the
charge was dismissed with one guinea Costs
against the constable who wasn’t ex-. The P.M.,
in dismissing the case, said that even if the
arrested man had told the constable to mind his
own business he might have been quite right in
doing so. In which case the amount of Costs
looks just about the size of a consultant’s fee for
professional advice.
Kangaroo Island (S.A.), where everybody
carries the seget of gum-leaves in his whiskers, had
its first look at a Governor-General the other day ;
and it enjoyed a wild time. There was a sale on at
KingBCote, when somebody or other got a message
to say that the Governor-General was yachting
and would arrive at six that evening. Then
Kingscote fell over itself. Someone gave the
local pub instructions to get ready to feed about
200 people. The pub hired seven vehicles, and
scoured the country for ducks and fowls. There
was no time to issue formal invitations, so the
town clerk, the harbor master, and the chair-
man of the district council rushed round sending
the folk home from the sale to get
dressed for the banquet—any old
dress; except that flannel shirts,
with handkerchief (dirty or
clean) round the neck, were
tabooed. At five o’clock the
harbor master, in his uni-
form, headed a proces-
sion to the jetty. Six
o’clock came and went,
and except for one or
two hopefuls “reck-
onin’ there wu z
sumthin’ over
there,” nothing
happened. The sun
sank despairingly
in the west, and
a cold wind sprang
up. At 8 p.m. a
few left the jetty,
and returned with
overcoats on. No-
thing had happened
at 10 p.m. except
a row at the pub
with a disgusted
cook. At 11 o’clock
it was decided, after
a long argument, that
it was too late that
day, anyhow, for a
dinner, reception and
smoke social. The
next afternoon the
G-.-G. arrived. Two
councillors and some
of the oldest inhabi-
tants awaited him on
the jetty. Lady
Dudley was the
first to land. No-
body noticed her.
Following her
' came the G.-G.
' One of the coun-
cillors rushed up
and said, “Are
§5: you the Gover-
" nor-General ?” “I
believe I am,” re-
plied Dudley. Every-
body shook hands with
him ; but nobody knew what to do
with her Ex. As they strolled up the jetty, part
of the district council trod on Dudley’s toes. “I
beg your pardon,” said Dudley. “ It’s granted,”
replied the district council. In the evening, the
vice-regal party was taken for a drive. On the
return journey, one of the party remarked to
Lady Dudley, with a hand caressing the lower
piyt of his waistcoat, “ I’ll be glad to get back to
dinner ; I’ve got a vakkum ’ere.” At dinner, no-
body had yet found out what to do with Lady
Dudley, so she fed the dog. In the evening, a
reception was held, and everybody talked about a
railway into the interior. During an interval, an
islander presented Dudley with a bottle contain-
ing eucalyptus oil, which gift the local paper says
“was much appreciated.” Next morning, the
local band played “Will ye no come back again?”
the Dudleys departed, and the island tied the old
handkerchief round its neck once more.
THE DAY OUT.
“ Well. Liz , loot’s it (join ’ ter be—a day on th
links or, a bit of mixed bathin' at Coogce ?”
A FEW INTERVIEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The report of the United Clerks’ Union (Sydney) has
drawn attention to some glaring cases of injustice and
actual sweating. An inquiry was instituted among re-
presentative employers in Sydney by the Daily Tele-
graph yesterday. There was hardly one employer who
was not prepared to admit that there were some shocking
cases. In seve*al instances a statement was followed by
the injunction : “ But, of course, you mustn’t mention
my name.” Then there was also a great disposition
among the persons interviewed to say : “ We pay good
wages here, but Blank and Co. round the corner ——.
Well, you just go round and ask them.” The necessity of
a bond of secrecy suggests that there’s something rotten
in the State of Denmark. One large employer was dis-
covered by our reporter in a frame of mind in which his
clerks thought that distance lent enchantment. He re-
sented the reporter’s query as an interference with his
private business. He would pay his clerks, he said, what
he liked, and if they didn’t like it they could go to a
certain warm place, and he suggested that the reporter
should go there first, anyhow.— Sydney D.T., 26/%/’O'J.
I.
“ As a rule,
When a fool
Of a daily paper fellow calls on me
With requests for my opinions
Of the wages of my minions,
I admit him simply out of charity ;
Then I prove by facts and figures
And my yearly balance-sheet
That my men—who work like niggers—
Would be lounging in the street
And proceeding round the landscape till they suffered
from sore feet
Were I not
Ready with my shoddy billet to engage them on the
spot.”
11.
“Asa rule,
In a pool
Of good Tory lamentation do my tears
Swamp my polished office table
When I sob, I am not able
To express my grief and, pain. For twenty years
I have got on well with Labor ;
All my men seem satisfied ;
At the sports I tossed the caber,
And they spoke of me with pride
When we gathered at the banquet which was spread for
us inside;
And I think
It was due to honest gratitude, and not to fear and
drink.”
111.
“Oh, the fool
On the stool !
He has always seemed contented with his post.
Now I’ve reckoned up his wages,
I can’t see why he engages
For a screw that wouldn’t keep a cat in toast I
He my counting-house disgraces,
And I’m driven to despair,
For he hardly earns bootlaces,
And his garments are threadbare ;
How the deuce can I explain that cursed scarecrow ove
there ?
Now, let’s see !
"Ah! The post is unimportant, and not worth much
salary! ”
IV.
“ As a rule,
I could sool
All the bloodhounds of creation on the scribe
Who intrudes to ask me whether
I will not extend the tether
Of my cursed little Socialistic tribe.
When he calls for information
In his interfering way,
I suppress my irritation,
And I have a word to say ;
But I’m stricken dumb with horror at the mention of
, clerks’ pay!
SAY I’M OUT ! !
No !!! . . I won’t see a reporter from the Early Morn-
ing Shout!!!”
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


Breathing Disease.
Infectious diseases are breathed into
the system from those affected with disease
or from bad smells; yet how many women
breathe daily the offensive steam from
common soaps made from rancid fats, and
keep their hands for hours in such solu-
tions, and the clothing from such soap
suds is worn next the tender skin. No
wonder disease and eczema are prevalent!
Users of Sunlight Soap know the differ-
ence between that and the pure, healthful
smell from the vegetable oils and pure
edible fats in Sunlight Soap.
“ I have used Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy, and speak
from experience,” says Mr. F. Sehmaka, Padding-
ton, W. A. “ I have never known it to fail in an
attack of colic, cramps or diarrhoea, so always
recommend it to my friends and customers. To
my mind no mother should be without a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy in the house.”*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
SUPERIOR MADE-UP SAC
for Early Winter
and Easter.
In view of the near approach of the cold season and the
holidays, we..have made up our Winter Suits slightly
earlier this year. Our illustration gives a fair representa-
tion,,'of one of our styles. The coat is not <}uite so
accentuated at the waist and buttons a little higher up,
the vest more open than formerly, and trousers slope to
the ankle. Colorings are in the coming Green and Brown
shades, and the whole suit is a step ahead in excellence of
style and good tailoring and finish. *
PRICES, 425. and 455. Patterns are now Ready.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
“MENS’ OUTFITTERS, 4 *’
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
SUITS
“A.M.”: In return for the loss of my
scalp, let me suggest'to the unnecessarily ferocious
“Drillbumper” (B. 25/2/’O9) that, whatever kind
of collar I may wear now, 10 years’’ “ windjam-
ming” entitle this “ tame Spring-poet” to know
what he is talking about. To begin with, “ D.”
is inaccurate. .1 said nothing about a piercing
eye, nor anything about an unshaven face.** In
fact, it was the present-day Jack’s invariably
shaven face that I adduced as one of the marked
external changes. Also, I had no intention of
throwing dirt (“D.” appears to be the lad
for that) when I said, incontrovertibly, that Jack
is no.t now characterised by the clothes, the
countenance, the voice, or the bearing that used
unmistakably to spell salt water. Again, I do
not need “D.” to tell me that the “roll” was
often affected by green hands. But, why?—be-
cause it was the characteristic gait of the old
hand. The “ shiver-my-timbers ” type of mariner
I have never met. Perhaps “ D.” has. Perhaps,
indeed, “D.”is/te/ Looks like it, anyhow, by
the way he splashes around about “‘A.M.’s’
ideal sailor.” “A.M.” hasn’t any ideals; and,
if he had, “D.” would certainly not be his ideal
controversialist.
* m * #
The Police Offences Act is teach-
ing its framers a lot of things about life in a big
city that they never knew before. As a result of its
provisions against the accosting of men by word or
sign, Lais, hitherto of Sydney, has packed her
assertive feathers, rouge and scent, and fled in
large numbers to Melbourne, Brisbane or Ade-
laide. Now.it appears that there are many male
Sydneyites who must either be accosted by or
accost someone. It may be merely bad
habit, or it may be sheer, inexcusable
naughtiness. Anyhow, there it is. One effect
of it is, according to the police, that the
city streets are coming to be no place for
decent young women to be in alone, whether
before or after dark. At every turn total
strangers pass them unholy winks, and
make hastily muttered references to
“ wine,” to the confusion of young persons
who never faced stronger tipple than
ginger-ale in their blameless lives. Occa-
sionally one of these strangers gets kicked
by an onlooker for his misplaced friendliness,
but not nearly often enough' to produce any
real reform. So the pious folk responsible for
many of the more drastic provisions of the
Act are beginning to view the results of their
handiwork with doubt. They begin to very
reasonably ask for an amendment which shall
at least put men who accost women in the same
category as women who accost men.
“ Edyson ” : The Red Page reviewer
notices Putnam Weale’s statement that the white
man*in Japan who marries a Jap woman not only
adopts the woman’s manners and customs, but
presently puts'on a Japanese complexion and
assumes a strange cast of countenance weirdly
approaching that of the Jap. Years ago'l noted
much the same thing in Australia—that the
European women of the crowded Chinese camps
of Victoria were developing characteristics of
Chow appearance and custom, and I often com-
mented upon it in Bulletin stories of the early
’nineties. Of late the camps have thinned out,
and I have lost opportunities of ob-
serving ; but when a youngster at
Ballarat and Creswick I could pick
out a white woman of the Chow
camps rvherever she might be.
AN UNPRO-
DUCTIVE
FAILURE.
SMART GIRL:
“ But if mar-
riage is a
failure, you at
least have sub-
stantial assets
in Mrs. Bloom-
stein and all those
little children.”
BLOOMSTEIN : "Assets!
Assets! My tear
girl, dose vos der
liapililics!”
An assault case, heard at one of the Mel-
bourne courts last week, threw a bright sidelight
on Salv’army lassiedorn. A rowdy youth, who
admitted to sundry convictions for various offences
—ranging front larceny to disturbances of the
peace—charged a “captain ’’ with having brutally
ejected him from a Salv’army barracks. He
attended a meeting with three pals for the pur-
pose of kicking up a row, and was/jhucked out by
the defendant blood-and-fire-man. Other blood-
and-fire-men had fired him out of another barracks
on more than one occasion. But in this case he
had a quite charming young woman witness,
named Ethel, who testified that he hadn’t made
any disturbance to speak of, and wt\s, in fact, very
badly treated by the defendant “captain.” Ethel
wore the uniform oh the Harmy, and her evidence
looked effective until sh'e was cross-examined.
Then the emotional ex-lassie, in her soulful poke-
bonnet, admitted that she was a “backslider”
whose name had been removed from the Harmy
books, probably on account of her fondness for the
young blackguard who had called her to give evi-
dence. She was very fond of Bert, she said.
Evidently the Harmy had reckoned that she
couldn’t love the Lord whilst cherishing an active
affection for Bert. The Bench expressed its
opinion of Ethel’s testimony by remarking that
Bert deserved more brutality^-than he got; after
which the case was dismissed with Costs against
the complainant. Hallelujah !
QUALIFIED.
"Have you ever been engaged before? "
“Of course I have. Would you like a recom-
mendation from my last boy? ”
“ Bahia ” : Just found another of my idols
has got corns on its feet. How often have I been
stirred when reading that our men, having re-
pulsed the enemy, leapt forward with a rousing
British cheer ! Now in an unlucky hour I have
been reading a well-known military handbook,
“ Battalion Drill.” Therein appears in cold type
the order that, during a pitched battle, whenever
it becomes evident that the enemy has turned the
game up, an “assault will be made, during
which the men will cheer, bugles be sounded and
the pipes played.” So it seems that the “ rousing
British cheer” which has set my blood bound-
ing is merely the result of obedience to
the regulations, and is in the same
category as “Mark time!” or “Sah-
lute ! ”
N.S.VV. Pre-
mier Wad e’s
various and in-
volved explana-
tions regarding
the scandal of
exChief Justice
Parley’s retire-
ment to England
on full pay, in-
stead c jf on pension,
do not impress the
Bar. Before leaving
Australia, Mr. Parley
assured one of th e
puisne Judges that Wade
had suggested to him that he
should apply for leave. He thought
it over, and concluded that he would in
that way not only serve his own'interests, but also
facilitate Wade’s ascension to the C.J.’s chair.
There is no doubt that the Chief Justiceship was
offered to C. E. Pilcher by someone in authority
some time ago ; nor is there any doubt that it was
accepted by him. Chief Justice Parley, however,
disapproved of the idea, and, as was ever his wont,
expressed’ himself on the subject very plainly.
Wade, it is said, thereupon* explained that the
offer to Pilcher was made by Carruthers, and not
by himself, and that his Government was not
necessarily responsible for it. But Pilcher holds
a different opinion, and alleges a distinct breach
of faith. Altogether, there has not, in the history
of N.S.. W., been so much sordid huckstering over
the appointment to this high office, and the end
of it is not at hand yet.
* * ir *
Architect J. J. Clark, who has the job of
designing the new Melbourne repairing depbt, has
returned from the chase after the latest things in
hospitals. He has captured a few ideas, but,
on the whole, he thinks that European and
American practice is in but few things ahead of
Australia’s. He found that the Continent went
in most for the pavilion style of hospital, all the
wards being isolated, in many cases with flower
gardens between; England stuck to the concen-
trated style, wards being piled up five and six
storeys high, in fireproof buildings ; and America
has a mixture of both styles. Baltimore’s famous
John Hopkins hospital is Continental; while the
New York hospitals, built on small areas, climb
up to six The New York doctors hold
that their percentage of recoveries in all kinds of
diseases is as high as in the scattered hospitals,
while the difference in expense of administration
is all in favor of the vertical as against the hori-
zontal building. The Melbourne man looked at
the figures, and bit them, and sounded them, and
the arithmetic seemed all right; and yet he
wasn’t satisfied till he had entered himself
as a clinical student in one of the biggest
hospitals, so as to inspect things from the
inside. Clark reckons it paid him. One
thing in particular he found—that sunlight ds
being recognised more and more as the best sort
of medicine, and hospitals are being planned to
get as much of it as possible. The latest practice
is to make one corner point to the sun at midday,
which gives two walls instead of one a maximum
of sunlight. The site of the Melbourne Hospital
has settled the problem automatically, as Lons-
dale-street runs nearly north-east jand south-
Swanston and Russell streets nearly north-
west and south-east. In a general way, he
concludes that the Melbourne site is equal to any
demands that can be made on it for very many
years, and that a hospital can be built on it cap-
able of being administered far more economically
than the scattered Continental infirmaries, and
more economically than many of the more or less
out-of-date English hospitals.
BILL ADAMS AT RANDWICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The celebration of the jubilee of Randwick munici-
pality was, as is customary in British communities,
brought to a close with a banquet. Lieutenant Colonel
Neild, of the local volunteer forces, was called upon
and made a long- speech. He regretted that there was
abroad a curse of ignorance of. defence matters. It was
thought by some persons who twaddled about defence
publicly that all that was necessary was to give a man a
rifle and teach him how to shoot. —Nervs item.
Well-fed, but wild, The Soldier rose,
And in minatory tones
Condemned the wickedness of those
Who proffered only stones
Instead of military bread ;
It chilled his hearers’ bones.
He told of battles he had waged
’Gainst colored men and white ;
And the populace, with shining eyes,
Muttered, “My oath ! he’s right.”
It knew it heard an Expert’s views,
And it hankered for more light.
He spoke as one who had seen blood
Spilt on the tented field,
Who, sword in hand, had led his men
Where the stricken cohorts reeled,
Smiting and strategising till
The foeman had to yield.
The shell-swept dunes of La Perouse,
With their corpses, cold and dank,
Came very near. Almost one saw
The deadly rear-front flank
Deploy, whereby the speaker won
His primal step in rank.
The grand old epic of Bondi
(Brave Bondi, by the sea !),
The gory tale that shall not die
Was told once more ; and he
Who spoke remarked that here he rose
To his majority.
, The Battles of Centennial Park
(Which is in Paddington),
The Easter scraps at Liverpool
Were fought again, and won ;
The Soldier mourned for the wild parades
Of days now dead and gone.
Of the days ere Federation came
And stirred up senseless fears
Of Japs and Chows ; good, sane times when
.Neild and his volunteers
Were deemed invincible, and aye
Were greeted with “loud cheers.”.
“ Citizen soldiery ! V the thought
To him who’d led the van
In war-clothes at a thousand feeds
Appealed as ’neath a ban ;
Cried^he—“ The thing s’feems madness to
The seasoned veteran.”
His peroration came at last;
Dear Mars, it did enhance
The Randwiok bourgeois’ joy to mark
How, with contemptuous glance,
Neild damned Lord Roberts’ favorite scheme
As “ twaddling ignorance.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communications insuficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.W.N. : Well done, but too “preachy.”
You can’t make man saintly by writing at him Jno.
O. : If “ Health ami Wealth ” were as good on the literary
as on the ethical side, it would have scored heavily. As
it is, it was bowled in the first over Sam Spry : Too
shapeless and inconsecutive S.W. : There is some
pathos in them, but no strength or vigor Jackeroo :
Its simplicity nearly carried it in... Mesmerist: Nob
badly written, but the fluffy little puzzle-woman has
become a literary nuisance Mabel W. : A very old and
weary subject Brusher: Hopelessly flat and tame
J.O.F. : There’s a sparkle of interest here and
♦here, but the bulk of it is dull W.W. : Not a
chance A.C.B. : Yes Agag :If ydu could get it into
a quarter the space, it might g 0... 8.8. : Very nearly
scored. A good deal of simple force spoiled by a few eoni-
monplace lines Monaro: A foolish yarn, in faint
purple pencil. When we are quite blind, we
will send you some of the bill for the necessary dog
J.M.M. : The tree-measuring lizard crawled into' The
Bulletin a year ago V.F. : No; “Bushland—lts
Glories ”is not poetry. We don’t quite know what it is.
Benita : Too pretentious Carleobur : No one un-
leashes a “ soul’s sad wail ”in this sheet. “ The mopoke’s
cry ”is also off.. . .Loco : “ Bill’s Lament ” died away into
nothingness The \Jhisp : Sympathetic feeling and a
line regard for detail distinguish your obituary notices.
For instance :
E.H. : The story is mediocre. The other item is better,
but too long' Noel B. Mac: Rather far-fetched and
overdone Jack H. :No strength in any of them.
Granite : Don’t care much for it.... Ash L. B. : You mean
well, but you have a clumsy touch Daspyi : You have
a feeling for the picturesque, but you lack skill T.R.
(Goulburn): If the judge said those things, be ought to
be jumped on heavily. But the newspaper cuttings, etc.,
don’t even hint that he did say them A.G. Mac: No
address, no name (except a pen-name), and a contribution
that reads like a steal. No, we shan’t publish “Farmer
Lad.” Jans Tas: Might have been a good yarn in
stronger hands E.T.P.: Little literary gift... .S.G.B. :
We rather like it, and yet it isn’t quite the right thing
for us... Britisher: Not bad in its way, but a bitout of our
line Ambrose T.: With a little-more care you would
probably catch" on—Venus: A promising study, but
you lack strength of manner yet W.S. : You are in-
teresting in detail, but your construction is clumsy
H. J. Matthews (Hopwas, Tamworth, Eng.): Don’t know
your brother personally, Australia being a big place—al-
most exactly 51 times larger than England and Wales, to
go into figures. If he sees this he may write to jou.
C. J. Liddiard : Canriot recall the case you mention.
The Loser: Tale of'how Bob touched his ma for
money was unhesitatingly basketed Alexander: “Fun
on the U.T.” lacks general interest Rouseabout:
Servant-girl screed is too roughly cast.. ..E.G.: Hardly
well enough done Vendetta: No; it is ragged
B.L.D. : Yarn re Pat and his friend Mike is pawky, a
brand for which this paper has little relish Maori: No
use for coon ballads. And besides, it has a suspiciously
familiar sound.J.V.V. : An excess of sentimentality
slew “For the Old Love’s Sake.” When sentimentality
becomes slush, a poem always drowns... .T.W.G.: Christ-
mas Nos. 1904 are in stock, but none of 1905 Leslie C.:
Fine' pieqe of absurdity, when it is looked at hard, but
most of it would miss fire with the ordinary reader, who
wouldn’t look at it that way J.M.C. : Had some hesi-
tation in rejecting it.... W.M.8.: Yes ; there is a marked
improvement Darby: Gives a “tinkered” effect.
Nothing spontaneous or easy about it.... Bungler: We
won’t quarrel with your estimate of yourself.. ..A.G.T. :
Gory and gruesome, without being clever Sandy B. :
T9O much straining after effect H.H.M.: Graceful, but
thin and unimpressive.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Laurence F. : Drawing nogood, and' joke too much like
9649 other jokes Alpaca : You made a mistake, and
labelled the wrong thing “joke.” The drawing was the
joke.... Stab: Too late F.G.L. : Too early—try us
alter a couple of years’hard work Exlex : You don’t
strike oil with any of them.
A Mrs. Lahiff, described as “a property-
owner at Bridgewater, but residing at Rich-
mond,” inet Judge Johnston at Inglewood (Vic.)
a few days ago, and discovered that “ the rights of
propputv” may be stretched a bit too far.
Through an agent she leased a shop to a young
woman ; but presently, denying knowledge of the
lease, she proceeded to get back her property by
emptying the tenant and her goods and chattels
out into the gutter. Having heard both sides of
the case, thej,Law boiled over, and declared that
it “would not take one penny off what was
claimed,” so a verdict for the full £49 was given—
with Costs. Now very likely an angry landlady is
wondering what the Law means by this beastly
interference, and is inquiring what the country is
coming to when a person can’t do what a person
likes with her own.
THE TRAGIC SUICIDE OF CHARLES WARNER
THE RENOWNED ACTOR. — London, Feb, 12, 1903.
The renowned actor, Charles Warner,
In an hotel l oom,
While deranged in his mind
Did seal his own doom,
His emotional acting in “ Drink,”
And other dramas of fame,
In England and Australia
Had distinguished his name,
Alas ! his brilliant career
And grand triumphs are o’er,
Enthusiastic applause will sing out
Eor the star actor no more.


J)esperarte
bei»r£ Scarce, is }>2rcVd
li I>ac kj, A ll
«K> .
£ jM*»>VnM»Jk MqvSs]
If ever/
s<)Ml€K £<,+"
U Awsbaj}; Wn
in Ktie^psa^K»lfe
. looK forward to
k JarovnotTon if-^e
Ilk ShoW S nterif "
("oi. stalky
jv,c S'f^e
Co rv) *v> A*) tj
Pfcvyty t'ooyr] in 'tfj’e enf”7
~se Crowded (
'■The SsO ,, A Y 'i*y if - Should I
1/a/e J°k °\ 'nAnu| : A c^‘<'i, V
2yct
)>ic+ui-e Ke.fr r«s<.r»t^
A|elboarne (or Ahy
SaJvA.r*v,y Fi lrv> 11 A§fy
tu .
'Viw
C r R°«Np V..
I
io Kee
f Exiled 6a»j-
E.N7I
A c ! ~
A
IK *
EH •sco'fr It erefte4
* &. TmikWp oa't^o^'rffe-
lu\*is
l>y Ch ( A*'*V of EneWiJ <^9€«t^
In "Vi'S 20’S^'lce) .He two %by&&<z-
dogs Vfitfj Ijlrri
Hz r,,t
I UHs
-
The heW policy tvjedicAj
Inspection School Children
is to t>e p ut'' - into iirimedieje.
" |_ Dak ,|y p^ cr J
XNVill Equation
fXKe over
hi 'ft° hrl
Nroorn -fo room wittj
lie
remedies J\lyo ?
V/on|d T?e fcjeKoV Kow wh&f~ wotilj oar
Dleysed
Mndetr Circ*,
VARIOUS TROUBLES IN VICTORIA.


FOR EVERY EMERGENCY-
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT.
WRISTLE/T
WATCHES
In Every Style, and Size, and Metals.
We Stock in LARGE VARIETY.
We make—here—the bracelets—the new
expandable and the flat flexible.
We set the watch faces with—
DIAMONDS. OLIVINES. PEARLS,
TURQUOISE and PEARLS.
SAPPHIRES OR EMEKALDS.
it#*
exp
v
*Ntj
Best Lever 18-ct. Gold Watc.i, in Gold Patent Expanding*
Bracelet., £8 Bs.
Watch Set Round with Pearls, £l5 15s.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Larrakeyah,” from the West Arm
(N.T.)
The blacks of these parts have a way to keep a dog
faithful to them. It’s quite infallible, they say—and you
can always take a nigger’s word, even if you drop it after-
wards. Take (here follows the recipe) five hairs from the
armpit, cut them very small, and mix them with the
dog’s food. Once he has eaten them he will cling to you
like a brother. I don’t know what would happen if you
fed the animal on six hairs. He might possibly cling to
you like a bull-dog, which, so far as I’ve judged, is a better
dinger than a mere brother any night.
JAGGERS: “ Ho, well (hie), come on; let's go
home. "
STAGGERS: "'Sorright (hie) for you; but you
ain't married. "
About rabbits :
A couple of rabbit-shooters had some good sport lately
in the Fitzrov Gardens, Melbourne. With a policeman in
attendance as a guarantee of their lawfulness, the
“ sportsmen ” walked along by the fern gully where the
bunnies burrow, and potted the guileless friskers on the
hop, so to speak. Down at St. Kilda, near the beach, the
rabbits are more wily, although even there it is not a rare
occurrence for a curly-tailed beast to scamper across the
Esplanade. The deserted site of Dreamland by the Sea
was a favorite haunt of the bunnies for a time. Many a
pea-rifle scored its first fatal shot among the tawdry ruins
<.f that ill-fated show place.
“ P.N.”: Marcus Clarke’s
“ Bullocky Town” (Glen-
orchy, Vic.) lias long lost
its distinction ; the train
now runs through it six
times a day, and the
country round is settled
by quiet, hard-working
farmers. But there still
stands the old pub pat-
ronised by Clarke while
he was at Swinton station
gaining experience, when
dozens of bullock-teams
used to be camped there
for the night, and the
bar of the pub rang with
the shouts and curses
and beer-demands of the
drivers. The room used
by Marcus is still kept
sacred to his memory,
and many a night has
the landlord Said to me,
“ You know your room,
sir; Marcus Clarke’s,
No 2 on your right.”
This old landlord, Cow-
land, dead ten years
ago, at the age of 94,
was a quaint character
—seldom quite sober,
and never quite drunk.
One day I arrived in
time for dinner, and
found the old man sit-
ting sadly at the table
with one arm in a sling.
“Hello! what’s up?”
said I. “Sprained my
arm,” muttered the old
man. “Yes, ” said Mrs.
Cowland. “Ye see,
he was sober, and
went out to gi’e the
garden a drop o’ water,
and as he was carrying
a'ong a can full his foot
caught in a root, and he put oot
his haund to save himsel’, ’nd fell
on it and sprained it. Noo, if he had
been a wee drunk, he would ’a’ slid doon
quietly and nothin’ would ’a’ happened.” I never
knew old Cowland to be quite sober after that
without hearing him say: “ I wonder what will
happen this time ! ”
“ Carte Range ” : A yarn of the days of
Honi Heke, “the Napoleon of the South.” In
the time of the war, a young man, whose father
was a friend of Heke’s, met a waggon loaded with
ammunition, escorted by but two soldiers. Pass-
ing the time of day, he rode on, and had got to a
bend in the road, about 300yds. away, when out
jumped a swarm of armed Maoris. They came
up to him, and began to talk. Presently the
young man said, “ Do you know what was on that
waggon that passed?” “Oh, yes,” said they ;
“ that the powder and shot for the pakeha toa.”
The surprised young man asked why it had been
allowed to pass. Answered the chief: “That
not the right thing to do ! If we take that pow-
der and shot, the pakeha have nothing to make
the fight with to-morrow.” The same principle
probably influenced the besiegers who were attack-
ing a pah near Hokianga. Being “ top dogs ” for
the moment, they bought up a cargo of powder
and accessories that happened into the bay—and
then promptly sent half of it up to the besieged !
“Snell” : There was a big horse-sale on
at the yards, and Anson’s man had the bad luck
to get brushed against a cart-wheel and to hurt
his knee when pacing the first neddy. A volun-
teer rider was called for, and a large, shambling
youth, with a grin like a grip-sack and freckles
like filberts, stepped forward and said that he
didn’t mind if he did. He was hoisted on a
hungry-looking bay mare, and the mare objected.
She lashed out two or three times, then jolted the
volunteer into the feed-bin. The youth came up
with his grin as good as new, and'was hoisted on
again. Two minutes later the mare threw him
into the liquid-refreshment stand. The amateur
crack was not seriously injured, and was soon
aboard once more. He was thrown five times
before the auctioneer wearied, finding the pro-
gress of sales was hampered by the entertainment.
“Why, confound it, man, you can’t ride!” he
said. “No,” replied Freckles, working his grin
again, “ but I’m willin’ to learn.”
* * * *
“ Sidney S. Severn ” on pouri-pouri :
“Intruder” (B. 14/l/’O9), discussing whether sharks
bite black people, mentioned the case of a fine Boigu boy
who had the flesh of his thigh stripped off, but recovered
in the Torres Strait Hospital. Let me give the further
history of that “boy”—a remarkable case of “pouri-
pouri,” or “ witchery.”
After he had been mauled, the crew of the pearling
boat beat the shark off with paddles, plugged Tom’s
wounds with potato-bag and tobacco, and started across
the Strait in a canoe. It was a four-day trip. Tom
reached the hospital shivering, in acute septicaemia. Two
doctors spent four hours stitching him up, yet he made a
brilliant recovery.
Whilst waiting for a Boigu boat to take him home, he
complained one evening of a “dead-man smell” in his
nose. Said smell was treated with salts and asafoetida.
Next morning the “ smell ” returned. So they sent him
gar-fishing in a dinghy. He had good sport and ate an
excellent tea, but asked if he might be put into another
ward to sleep. At 10 o’clock the “ smell ” came at him
again. They gave him a hot bath and rubbed him with
eucalyptus. The “smell” refused to move, and Tom,
with an awful look in his eyes, sat on the sand outside the
ward and said, “ I bucca up. Time finished.”
The staff questioned a fellow Boigu boy who was look-
ing after him and could speak some English. He said
Tom had seen a dead Japan man, “ with eyes not proper
shut,” lying on the opposite bed. “He close up catch
Tom.” (Three months before a Japanese had died
in the opposite bed, of turtle poisoning, and his
eyes would not shut. But as there were no old patients
in the place, no one could have told Tom about him.)
Commonsense and a knowledge of pouri-pouri suggested
a sudden change of scene for Tom. So he was sent to
some colored folk at the other end of the Island, and
that broke the magic.
But only for a time. Three days after he got back to
Boigu, the Jap with the eyes “ not closed proper ” came
again. And he “ caught ” Tom that time.
THE FATES AGEN HIM.
TRAVELLER: “ I could ’a’ got a job werdin ’ a
garding yesterday , but the lady wanted a
reference from me last employer .”
HOUSEWIFE (sympathetically): “ And wouldn't
he give you one ?"
TRAVELLER: “'E couldn't , mum. Poor feller, he
was killed in the Boer war."
“ Mamoose ” : “Don Q.” (B. 14/l/’O9)
reckons he has met the most versatile hotelkeeper
in Australia. The boss of a North Queensland
town’s principal beer-pump would run that
candidate pretty close: publican, accountant,
local correspondent for one or two papers, aliire
councillor, hospital auditor, coach agent, mining
co.’s secretary, sharebroker, insurance agent,
Trustee Co.’s representative, and teetotaller. He
is an ex-coalpit boy, ex-farm lad, ex-school
teacher (classified), ex-telegraphist, ex-bank
accountant, ex-shire clerk, and is not an old man
yet. Also lie has had two unsuccessful tries for
Parliament, going on forlorn hopes in the interests
of the Labor party.
“ Hememes ” concerning kerosene and
snakebite: Returning to camp, I started
prospecting under the bunk for a lost
pocket-knife, when the attitude of the dog,
which stood at the tent-flap, growling, set me
thinking. I prospected with a stick, and
riiked out a death-adder some 2ft. long. I
smote him hard, and threw him out for dead.
Then I returned to find that pocket-knife,
but heard a sudden yelp, and, rushing out,
saw the dog leaping off the rock with the
adder fastened to his paw. I slew the adder,
lubricated the paw with kerosene, and con-
cluded the treatment by pouring some down
the dog’s neck. He took a fit right away
and then sat up, looking almost able to
take nourishment. Together we wandered
into town and inquired for an antidote, but
none was forthcoming, and popular opinion
was the dog would pass out at sundown. Only
the butcher, an eminently practical man,
suggested anything. He said to save the dog
it was necessary to amputate both ears and
the afflicted paw. I declined to be troubled
with the fragment of a dog, and decided
that Towser must take his chance. Instead
he took several fits, and again recovered
sufficiently to take nourishment. And
although that was about six months ago, he
is stdl with us, as the parsons say. The
only signs of trouble are recurrent vomiting
fits which spread over two or three days,
but they are becoming milder on each
occasion, and I have hopes that they will
soon cease.
“ Misere ” : The yarns I read on the
“ Abo.” page about the Wragge-like gifts of ants,
gnats, mosquitoes and other wild fowl make me
tired. Take bees. They are supposed to be
fairly intelligent, as insects go. Yet they know
no more about the weather and what it is doing,
or proposes to do, than the skipper of a horse-
ferry. They can’t distinguish between thunder
and the noise made by hitting an old tub, nor
betvveen lightning and the reflected light from a
looking-glass. This is easily proved, since a
swarm will “light” either when real lightning or
thunder occur, or when those effects are simulated
by beating a tin and flashing a light from a
looking-glass.
“ Itan ” : What is the biggest load of pine-
log timber teamed in Australia? W. Coffall
landed G3llft. at Casino (N.S.W.) recently, and
now he reckons that the belt ought to be proudly
embracing his equator.
■*•***•
“ Flinderino ” : Have often wondered
which is the most numerous native bird in
Australia. I should think the grallina would
come near the top of the list. But what a lot of
aliases he works under ! In Victoria, he is known
in different localities as the magpie-lark, mud-
magpie, mutton-bird, water-lark, mud-lark and
soldier-bird. In Queensland, he is mostly called
the pee-wee. This bird of many names is a sort
of knock-about comedian in his way, and takes
things as they come. Fireflies, cockroaches,
worms, wheat, oats, corn, crabs, crayfish, spiders,
stale bread, defunct meat, oysters, pilchards, mos-
quitoes and shirt buttons are about equally
acceptable. He is at home shell-fishing, follow-
ing the plough, robbing barns, or inspecting
orchards. But, wherever else he may be, he is
never far away from water ; and the sight and
sound of him has gladdened the heart of many a
thirst}' wanderer.
* * * *
“ Koorara ” : Last week I passed through
a mining village with one pub and a Chinatown.
Stayed at the pub. During the afternoon a very
small Irishman sidled up to the bar and called for
a drink. A huge, hairy publican handed over the
drink. The small Irishman came out and sur-
veyed the road ; then he invited four others in to
breast the bar. The five drinks were consumed,
but no half-dollar turned up. Thereat the big,
hairy man grew angry. The small Irishman
talked fight—and got it. After he had got it he
cleared off to his camp, and presumably made ex-
planations to a slightly more diminutive brother,
who rushed to the pub, wanting to know who had
struck his small brother Mick. “Me ! ” said the
big, hairy man. “What about it?” “You!”
queried Mick’s brother, sizing him up. Then
Mick’s brother’s countenance changed as he
stepped back a pace or two. “ Oh, you ! Good
enough, boss ! Y’ orter killed the blanky little
waster ! ”
* * * *
“ G.5.K.,” his tale of sin :
Fraunfelder had just started in a livery and bait stables
venture, and combined with it the business of horse-deal-
ing. The opposition dealers in horseflesh resented the
intrusion of the German, and lay in wait for him.
At the weekly sale at Knight’s yard Fraunfelder had an
old grey horse, attached by a derelict set of harness to a
desolate-looking cart. This outrage stood in the row of
horses and carts waiting their turn to draw up to the
auction stand for sale. Fraunfelder was approached by an
innocent-looking Celestial, who examined the horse and
inquired the animal’s price. The German said he would
only sell the horse, cart, and harness in one lot. The
Chow offered £2O for the horse, but repudiated the cart
and harness. He found the German firm in his resolu-
tion. Our benighted yellow brother than advanced to
£24, but Fraunfelder required £26 for the lot (his reserve
was £l5).
Keith, who had heard the bargaining, waited for the grey
horse and attachments to go to the stand, and purchased
the lot for £24. He then raced round after the inquiring
Chinaman, who, in response to the knowing one’s offer
of the gallant moke for £2O, only said “No, me suited
now.” Keith .got rid of the horse for £l2 and the harness
and cart for £6, so he was a loser on the deal. Together
with 16 other persons who objected to the German, he
sought Fraunfelder, and found him and the Chow at the
White Horse smoking huge cigars. Then they realised
that they had been done badly, and after that they
allowed the German to deal in horses or any other
animals without molestation. He might even have traded
in elephants, and no one would have complained.
BUSH LANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHY.
When the local beauty spot is being taken the
leading residents group in the foreground. looking
as if they had just finished making the scene and
felt mighty proud of themselves peer the. job.
A notable display of horse sense is recorded
from a Gippsland township. A party bad come
up from Melbourne on a fine motor. The car was
left in a farmer’s yard while the voyagers went up
the range to inspect the view. Presently two
unoccupied horses came along, and having looked
the car over proceeded to kick it to pieces.
About £2OO worth of damage was done before the
horses could Ire dragged off their hated rival.
LUCK O’ MININ’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When your tucker bag is lookin’
Rather slimmer than it might,
An’ the smell o’ dinners cookin’
Floats across th’ hungry night;
When you haven’t got a stiver,
An’ you’re off th’ blessed gold,
Oh ! a wonderful reviver
Is the digger’s gospel old :
“No use whinin’—
Luck o’ minin’;
Can’t depend on runs to hold.”
Then you crawl into your humpy
Feelin’ better for the thought,
An’, no longer gruff and grumpy
(Can’t afford t’ be that sort),
Get th’ last, small rasher fryin’—
It’s a cheerful sort o’ sound—
An’ prepare to do some lyin’
If a mate comes foolin’ round :
(“ Well, what’s movin’ ?
Things improvin’? ”
“ Like th’ look o’ this new' ground.’)
Then, when tucker-time is over
And you’ve finished all your grub,
Down you stroll, a hopeful rover,
To the little goldfield pub ;
Or p rhaps a pal you call on,
On the off-chance that he may
Your unfurnished bosom fall oil
In a hospitable way :
(“ Take a seat, Bill!
Have some meat, Bill?”
Yes, you will! . . . Of course, he’ll stay !1)
But, tho’ Fate reward your lyin’,
Or though Fortune dodge your pick,
It’s a fact there’s no denyin’,
’Spite o’ goldfield stores and tick,
That your belt it makes you tighten,
An’ your spirit it makes bold
(Tho’ your face with hunger whiten),
Does the digger’s gospel old :
“ No use whinin’ —
Luck o’ minin’;
Can’t depend on runs to hold."
VICTORIA.
NEWSBOY.


Shorthand, Typewriting, BooK-
eping, Correspondence, Business
FAritHinetic, Commercial Law,
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering,
Architecture and Building Construction,
Freehand Drawing, &.c.»and we coach by
Post for all Examinations.
Write for “HOME STUDY," Post Free
Sfoffe/fo are’s
Business College
Moore St Sydney.
sJN
1 B.C.
/S.H
MJ
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
A young- lady so rosy and fair,
That few beauties witty, her can compare,
Says, “The ills I endured
Laxo-Tonic Pills cured.
All who take them like blessings will share.’
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, 10£d. and Is. Gd.»
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
. Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. ...
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
THE DRAMA OF LIFE AT BILLY-
GOAT FLAT.
Scene: The drawing-room at the Mayor's residence.
Time: Sunday afternoon.
Personce: The Mayor and Mayoress. Their son
Willie. Three distinguished visitors from town.
Willie is playing “ Lead , Kindly Light" with-
out the hook. The “ company ” is unanimously
getting ready to say "Thank you." The Mayor
and Mayoress are affecting to he quite unconscious
of the great merits of their boy’s performance.
HOPS VERSUS NECTAR.
JIM (lasting the Celestial brand for the first time): “O lor’, Bill! And there ain’t no hope
ever of a change — it's a tied house."
“Yarrum ” : Be cliild-labor and cow. A
few years ago I ran a school in the beautiful Illa-
warra district of JNT.S.W., and have not forgotten
the fact. Was after my 2 A skill-mark then,
and didn’t get within cannon-ball range of it.
Had been there only a couple of months, when a
youthful inspector turned up to examine. There
was no life in the youngsters, and he got wild.
“What,” asked he, “is the matter with these
children ? They’re like a lot of ’possums, and I’ve
a great mind to come at night to inspect this
school! Mind,” he said, “I hardly blame you,
for I’ve been here a time or two, and it’s always
the same.” I told him it was want of rest and
sleep, and explained quite a lot of things. Then
he wondered why the mischief he hadn’t thought
of it before. When he went away, he told some-
body he felt sorry for me, and that’s
all" I got out of it. The youngsters
never played, and it used to go
to my heart to wake the little
beggars on the playground after
recess, and drive them into the
seminary for mental arithmetic
and other matters that they took
not the slighest interest in. One
little fellow—a State child—was fall-
ing away to a shadow, and I asked
what was the matter. He said he
got to bed late o’ nights and had to
rise early, and that he couldn’t sleep
when in bed for the Chinaman, who
“snored frightful.” Then I dis-
covered that he occupied a room
with a rouseabout Chow. I inter-
viewed Mr. Cocky—a J.P., by the
way—about the matter, and we
haven’t spoken since. Anyhow,
the poor lad recovered, and is
doing well to-day. I hardly
blame the cookies in the matter,
as most of them haven’t enough
intelligence to know what amount
of graft a child is capable of.
The coal-miner, who is regarded
by the dairyman as an “under-
ground savage * —Cocky fancies
himself a superior sort of animal
—has intelligence. He reads
the dady newspapers regularly,
and discusses all sorts of social
problems with his mate. But
tjje cocky—well, he reads the
local rag, when he can “get a
lend ” of it, and occasionally a
chapter, that he doesn’t under-
stand, from the Bible, and there
his knowledge of things ends.
What can be expected of such
men ?
“ Ooks ” : A three years’ sojourn in the
South Seas has served to convince me of two things:
(1) That the shark doesn’t give a fin-flap for
nigger-beef as an article of diet; and (2) that the
nig. realises the shark’s abhorrence of him as
fodder, and so fears that seafarer not at all. Con-
sider this (which I affirm, as one who knows, to
be true) from “Sunshine and Surf,” by Douglas
B. Hall and Lord Albert Osborne :
So we gave him (i.C., a South Sea Islander) the end of
the rope, and down he dived again to give the rope
another knot. Up he came again, and said he had fixed
it all right, and that we could pull away when we had
got the boat in proper position. We soon did this, and I,
sitting on the gunwale, took a pull of the rope along with
another man. At first we thought he had hitched the
rope on to a spur of coral for a joke ; but, by Jove ! in a
moment I knew he hadn’t. We all took hold, and it
required it. Gradually we pulled alongside a huge, ugly-
looking shark, about 10ft. long-. When we examined the
knot on the tail, it seemed almost incredible that anyone
could have made such a thing on a live shark under water
—two first-class double hitches.
Edward Reeves, in “Brown Men and Women”
(p. 214), also mentions that natives catch sharks
in this way.
“ Marc Antony ” : The Bulletin a while
ago remarked that five points of rain are enough to
hold up a race-meeting in the places where the
people are not used to getting wet. In a Western
(Central) Queensland township lately a shower
suspended a funeral. The deceased was “ a well-
known resident ” (in a small township everybody
is a well-known resident). The funeral began at
four o’clock, and a thunderstorm arrived five
minutes later. The cortege hurried up to a
verandah ; then the live part of the procession
dashed for shelter. The undertaker (the local
wheelwright and blacksmith) drew the hearse (his
family chaise with the back seat out) alongside,
and held the horse from under cover. Then,
when the shower was over, the procession, which
wanted rain and was very cheerful while the
shower lasted, resumed its expression of woe and
moved on again.
* * * *
“E.K.H.” : Here, in Borneo, there are
flying lizards in plenty. The wing membranes
are separate from the legs, and each is sup-
ported by four ribs. Thus the set of ribs on
each side with its covering membrane forms
a jointed and controllable limb. I don’t
know another instance of such an abnormal
rib adaptation. The wing membrane is
very dark brown, spotted with greyish
“eyes”; in texture it is thin and trans-
parent. The grey markings also extend
along the lines of the ribs and round the
edges. The lizard owns a capacious pinkish-
yellow pouch under its throat, and this it
can distend with air at will. The head re-
minds one a little of the Australian jew lizard
in shape; there is a protuberance directly over
each eye; the cheeks are vertical, and the
jaws form a horizontal angle at the nose of
about 75°. Lizzie’s neck is rather long and thin, and
is a metallic green on the sides. This tint is also
noticeable in the general brown tone which pre-
vails right down the back, and on all four
legs. Underneath, excepting the pouch,
the tint is uniform cream. In the umbrella
sense this lizard undoubtedly flies, and 1
have it on the authority of a credible eye-
witness that it has been seen to fly in
the true sense, i.e., to change direction
while in the air.
“ Agricola ” : One of the unsolved myste-
ries of the fishy world is the manner in which eels
propagate. This problem has been attracting
attention for over 2000 years, when old man
Aristotle came to the conclusion that they sprang
from the entrails of the sea. Up to now, no one
has got much closer than Ari. In the swamps on
the coast, which form the head-waters of many
lagoons, millions of young eels may be found at
the right time of year. They are embedded in
the mud, which is more peat than mud,
and average about 3in. in length, They are
never found except where there is communica-
tion with the sea. With these facts to go on
with, Abo-ites may now step forward with the
inspiring aim of improving on Aristotle.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Coda ” : I am thirsting for information
about a beetle, and I wish somebody would shout.
He hangs out in the E. Murchison (W.A.). I
have never met him anywhere else, and I don’t
know anybody who has. I call him the Dowie
beetle myself, but he generally goes by the vulgar
name of the stinker. He is about an inch in
length, is olive-green in color, and is always in a
violent hurry. He flies in an agitated way, and
on alighting immediately starts off on foot as if
the Devil were after him, which is quite probable,
as, with an assured supply of him, brimstone would
be unnecessary. A friend of mine who has been in
S. America says they are a species of humming-
bird, and I am inclined to agree with him. Do
you know anything about humming-birds? I
would like to know more about this strange beast,
and would like to see “Jimmie Pannkin ” or
“D.H.R.” do the investigating, as if either of
them were to get a really good whiff, it would give
me a better chance to get a par in now and again.
“Malacoota”: Dwellers in the arid dis-
tricts of this continent get kinks in their necks
looking up to the skies for indications of rain.
When drought is heavy over the interior the
weather prophet goes about pathetically watching
the movements of ants and creeping things, and
Cumbo, the indigenous native liar, cultivates the
wise expression of a city palmist and foretells the
kind of weather he thinks will bring him most
beer. The blackfellow is more unreliable as a
weather prophet than he is on most other matters,
which is saying a good deal. I was recently
putting in a dull Monday morning awaiting the
arrival of a coach in a little backblocks town
where it hadn’t rained for 10 months. All the
women had their washing out—yellow duds, boiled
with’a maximum of soda in a minimum of water.
Presently a cloud about the size of a tablecloth
appeared in the lower sky, and there was a frantic
rush to bring in the things before it rained. The
town blackfellow had been prophesying. The
pathos of it!
* ■* *
“ The Spragger ” :
Without doubt, “Snake’s” carved mulga stick (B.
7/l/’O9) is, as “ Harry Stockdale ” notes (B. 28/l/’O9),
a bull-roarer. This, or—to give it one of its best-
known Australian names—the “turndun,” is of
all savage appurtenances the most widely diffused.
Apart from its prevalence throughout Australia, it
is known to have existed in New Mexico,
Africa, Maoriland, and ancient Greece. It is
interesting to note that in nearly all these countries
its use is closely associated with the mystic rites
of the initiation of the young men into the
secret ritual of the indigenous religion. It was the
custom of the Victorian natives during such ceremonies
to bedaub the neophyte with mud and other filth, and it
is another curious fact, as has been pointed, out by
Andrew Lang, that this practice is almost identical with
that of like ceremonies amongst the ancient Greeks and
the natives of the Congo. The meaning of this dirty action
is not precisely known, hut it seems to be a rational
inference that it symbolises the impure uninitiated state,
to be cleansed later by the ceremonies of initiation. That
part of the “ turndun ” so awe-inspiring and terrifying
to women, and which apparently' gave “ Snake ” so much
glee, appears to be its chief peculiarity. Among the least
civilised blacks of this continent the showing of a “ turn-
dun ” by a man to a woman meant instant death to both.
If the “turndun” is discovered and looked upon by
a member of the inquisitive sex alone, all the
entreaties of her family cannot save her from
a violent death. When y'ouths are being put
through the ordeal of initiation, they are shown “ turn-
duns,” and made to hearken to their hideous noise, and
are told that if ever a woman is allowed to look upon one
and live, the w'hole earth w’ill be swamped by the sea.
Here we have th& nucleus of the deluge story 7 . In Gipps-
land there was a vague tradition amongst the Kurnai
that at one time some children in playing around found a
“ turndun,” which they took home and showed
the women, and immediately the earth crumbled
away, and all was W'ater. The . bull-roarer of
the Maori, like that of other savages, is closely 7 allied
with mysticism, and, amongst other things, is used to
invoke the wind, so essential to the presence of their god.
The weird tohunga, in accompaniment to the fearsome
noise of his roarer, recites the incantation—
Loud wind,
Lasting wind,
Violent whistling wind,
Dig up the calm reposing sky—
Come, come !
One other property of the Australian “ turndun ” is its
alleged ability to carry the sorcerers of its tribe up to
Heaven. This superstition, as Harry Stockdale has shown,
also prevails in parts of Africa. And, lastly, its upholders
allege that—given proper manipulation of the medicine
man —it is a high-class rain producer. .
NO EYE FOR THE BEAUTIFUL.
COCKY: "P'raps I oughter tell yer that ice all
get up in time to see the sun rise oƒ a mornin’.”
PERCY (just engaged): “ Must be a beautiful
sight, bai Jove. But — haw — don't bother call-
ing me to sec it, old fellah. Y' know, I find
it so deuced hard to — haw—get to sleep again
once I’m roused, don't yer know.”
“ Orara ” : I nominate the bush teacher as
the most obliging man. Know one that comes to
town once a week and spends all day Saturday
obliging Ids'Outback friends. When a “ darnce
is looming he is really busy. On one trip to town
he bought a fan, two rows of pearls, a bottle of
conversation lollies, two P’^sofgloves
6yd. ribbon and a fur boa. Also he faxed up
a fa ou t some land, had a concertina put into repair
for the coming hop, and registered two births,
After all that he went back and acted as parson
over a bush friend who had died during his
absence.
KING JIBBERIK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have just received a photo, of King 1 Jibberik, of
Maguro, Marshall Islands. Jibberik is a picturesque per-
sonality, the snow-like whiteness of his hair, beard and
kilt contrasting effectively with the dusky nakedness of
his limbs and torso. The old monarch is shown sitting
upright in his litter-of-State, the poles of which rest on
the shoulders of four picked wives from the royal harem.
King Jibberik, King Jibberik,
Until your picture lay
Before my eyes, those eyes, I think,
Had never looked your way.
Dark dignity of Lost-in-Sea,
Serenely litter-borne
High on the shoulders of your queens,
The loss is mine to mourn !
King Jibberik, King Jibberik,
Though little known to fame,
And rather less than overclothed,
You’ve got an A 1 name.
Most surely one more suitable
Is far from often seen ;
I guess it “ fits you to a T ”
(Whatever that may mean).
King Jibberik, King Jibberik,
In staring black and white
I see you sitting, on four wives,
And envy you that right.
I never yet could sit on one ;
If candid I’m to be,
Through rain or shine, I mostly find,
My lady sits on me.
Ki ng Jibberik, King Jibberik,
You make me young again.
You link me up with pantomime
And children’s stories, when
King Hokey-Pokey-Winky-Wum,
Of cannibal renown,
His fearful fame would bolster up
By bolting people down.
King Jibberik, King Jibberik,
You help me to receive
With some respect what, heretofore,
I classed as make-believe.
Yes, almost you persuade me, Sir,
To swallow Winky-Wum,
With all the hapless multitude
A-buried in his turn.
King Jibberik, King Jibberik,
I’d shake you by the hand
If I could find a steamer to
Transport me to your land.
But only sailers, as a rule,
To your location steer,
And little schooners always make
My gastric juices queer.
Still, Jibberik, King Jibberik,
You shall not pass away
“Unwept, unhonored and unsung,”
If I can sell this lay.
You shall be sung, at any rate,
Immortalised in rhyme,
To leave a footprfnt, ere you go,
Upon the sands of time.
King Jibberik, King Jibberik,
Rare relic of the host
Of very unpacific chiefs
Who used to rule the roast
(Quite literally) through the isles
The mild Pacific rings,
Salaam ! from one who seldom yields
A reverence to kings.
TONGA.
TALAFEKAU.


sarkastickley DHawi)
5y ±joi> fii't O/iOiiistupy
London, Saturday Afternoon.-Lord Carrington says that the
Government, recognising that the Hop industry is in a critical
state, is prepared to re-introduce the Hop Bill.
This, Lord Carrington added, in no way touched the question
of Protection. -Cable.
Yes, the sooner that Hop Bill is re-introduced
(especially If there’s a subsidy hanging to it)
the better. Fact is, if some public son-of-a-
gun with a face on him doesn’t do something
Jjretty soon, the Hop Industry will go into
liquidation.
A number of medical men have recently been fined for scorching around
Sydney —Daily paper.
Motoring Doctor: “Don’t stop me, officer, for Heaven’s sake—
I’m on an errand of mercy.”
WHEN LONDON IS IN DANOER.
While combating compulsory service
proposals, the Secretary of State for War
referred contemptuously to the man who
amuses himself and does nothing for his
country. Mr. Haldane remarked that
not improbably a short, sharp Act of
Parliament in war time would compel the
“ s l acke r ” to do his duty in the matter
of defence.—Ca*/e.
London, Tuesday After-
noon. — Taking advantage
of the post-office regula-
tions which permit human
beings to be despatched as
letters, twp suffragettes
were delivered as express
letters by a telegraph mes-
senger to Mr- Asquith’s
house.
Our Ausi...lian Statesmen might get a wrinkle here.
Above is Seen a late party leader, having strayed from
grace (politically speaking), posting himself back to his
constituents. George has squeezed through some tighter
places than this.^
England leads In military aerostatics.
-Cable.
The General (to A.D.C.): “Please ring up the enemy
and request him to cease firing for a couple of
years until we pass a short Act of Parliament,
and lick a few slack men into shape.”
FATHAN’S SLAVE-DRIVER-
or the poor Clerk and his wages
according to recent revelations.
CHRISTIANISING THE JEWS.
Missionary : “ Oh, taste, and see that It is good I ”
ONE THING AND ANOTHER.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
A PANACEA FOR ALL STOMACH TROUBLES
Is found in Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules, which digest
what you eat and give the weary stomach a much-needed
rest. For sale everywhere, price 2s. 6d. per tin of 80
tabules.*
Mr. John Hamilton, South and Drummond
Streets, Ballarat, Victoria, writes: —“Chamber-
lain’s Tablets are our family medicine. I strongly
recommend them to anyone who suffers from
constipation, biliousness, or any other disorder of
the stomach or liver.” Constipation is a most
difficult complaint to cure; most of the adver-
tised pills, because they act as purgatives, only
aggravate the’ disease. Chamberlain’s Tablets
bring about a natural action of the bowels, thus
curing the most obstinate case of constipation.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
E. K. Miller, of Adelaide (S.A.), claims
to be now the oldest Anglican clergyman in Aus-
tralia. He was ordained by Bishop Short in
June, 1848 ; and, though he has just finished his
90th year, he isstilla very persistent letter-writer
to the newspapers—very persistent and very prosy.
Port Phillip lost one of its most experi-
enced pilots in a mysterious fashion one recent
calm night, when Captain Stanford disappeared
from an outward-bound barque which was being
towed down to the Heads. When they were well
on their way the captain went below for a sleep,
leaving the mate in charge with the pilot; and a
while afterwards the pilot told the weary mate he
could go below too if he left a steersman, a lookout
and a boy to carry orders. The mate went, and
the barque sagged along through the mist in the
wake of the shadowy tug. A splash, heard by the
man at the wheel, is supposed to have been the
end of the quiet tragedy. The only thing that a
puzzled ship’s company can suggest is that the
pilot tripped overboard over the low chain bul-
warks He had been leading ships in and out
since 1889, and for something like half-a-century
had been giving the sea the chance to grip him.
And it gripped him at last when it looked the
least like doing it.
Rev. J. A. Burke, who died a day or two
ago at his farm, Burlcville, Lyndhurst (N.S.W.),
had for over 50 years drawn £2OO a year from the
State. He was the last of the old ecclesiastical
State-pensioners in the diocese of Bathurst.
Bendigo (Vic.) claims an Australian hotel
record : Mrs. Charlotte Barnett, of the Crown
Hotel, who is now taking down her signboard,
has been the. licensee for 46 years, during which
period she has paid but 2s. in fines. And that
calamity only happened because one windy night
the lamp outside the door wouldn’t keep alight.
Victorian Deputy-P.M.G. Bright, whose
chance of becoming secretary to the Postal De-
partment when It. T. Scott retires is considered
rosy, is a nephew of. Charles Tilston Bright, who
just about 50 years ago laid down the 2200-mile
cable between England and America. C. T.
Bright’s elder brother William, father of Vic-
toria’s Deputy-P.M.G., was also for a time in the
employ of the co., but came to Australia and died
here in 1872. At the time of the laying of the
English-American cable, C. T. Bright was only
26. Yet he had the job first of scientifically
demonstrating that the thing was practicable, and
afterwards of laying down the cable.
Wm, 11. of Berlin, cheered up by the
visit of Uncle Edward, came out of his retire-
ment, and by way of celebrating his return to
social life, put his foot in it again. This time the
indiscretion consisted of wiring some superfluous
congratulations to the German Ambassador in
Paris re the Morocco treaty between the Father-
land and France. Rightly or wrongly, the alert
French press has construed it to mean that
W. 11. has friendly inclinations towards France,
but is baulked by Bulow, Imperial Chancellor.
Now Berlin is buzzing once more, and Bill, having
sold himself out of all his castles, and having no
real estate wherewith to show his contrition, is
looking in a dazed way at his mailed Fist, and
wondering why it ever learnt to write telegrams.
Bill Two must hate the sight of a telegraph office
these days.
John Hay, the big land-owner for whom
Carruthers engineered a knighthood, died at
North Sydney on Friday. When the late David
Berry was well up in the 80’s he sent over to
Maoriland for Mr. Hay—who was a nephew—
and gave him the management of the vast Berry
estates—Crow’s Nest (North Sydney) and Coolan-
gatta. On David’s death John Hay was made
residuary legatee, some heavy payments being
charged on the estates. Crow’s Nest was origin-
ally a grant to Alexander Berry’s brother-in-
law in the early ’twenties; he built the old
“ Crow’s Nest a bungalow cottage, on the site
of which a Presbyterian Church now stands.
The present Crow’s Nest mansion was built by
Alexander Berry, M.L.C., who died there in
1873, aged 92. David Berry, who inherited every-
thing, would not live at the place, preferring
Co.olangatta. But John Hay didn’t share the old
man s objections: he made his home there, and
there he died.
A DIETARY HINT.
MADAME BOARDINGHOUSE (reading from the
S. M. HERALD “ Land” column for the in-
formation of her paging guests): “‘ My ex-
perience has been that the purer the breed of
the animals the better their condition and the
less particular they are about the nature of
their feed.’”
Evidently some people know their own
limitations. Wade, op behalf of the State, has
bought Chief Justice Darley’s law books for £7OO.
And for their part the Darleys are “doing
splendid,” one way and another.
Although Premier Tom Price (S.A.) is
very ill, he insists on being consulted on all
Ministerial matters of importance; and oneor other
of his colleagues is continually motoring down to
Victor Harbor to consult him. Thus Price gets
the “complete rest and quiet” that the doctors
order him imperatively. It is another illustration
of how “these Labor fellows ” only want office
for the soft things they can get out of it !
THE MIXED
BATHERE.
MOTHER : “ I am ashamed of
you bathing 'with all those
little boys.”
MAUIDE: "How could I tell that they were little boys, mother—they haven't got any clothes on!”
There was an amused man in Sydney last
week. Soon after he arrived from Shanghai,
Victorian Commercial Agent li. Levien, being on
leave, gave an interview to the daily papers, and
casually remarked that he didn’t think there Was
much chance of effectively following up Ah Chow
in Australia or preventing him being smuggled in,
unless a system of registration was adopted.
Next morning, the president of the Chinese Asso-
ciation for Dealing in Sharks’ Fins, etc., exploded
in the papers. “It was a piece of colonial im-
pudence to suggest that they should be registered
iilce dogs.” After Levien had bought an asbestos
screen to protect himself from the terrific heat of
the Chinese merchant, he dived into his carpet-
bag and fished up his own registration certificate
in China, issued at Shanghai in accordance with
Article 11. of the Treaty of 1842. That certificate,
which has to be renewed yearly, costs $2 ; and it
carries the signature of the man in whose favor it
is issued, for identification purposes. So Levien
had simply proposed with regard to Ah Chow in
Australia the system which Ah Chow adopts in
his own country with regard to the Australian ;
and Ah Chow’s pigtail stood upright at the very
idea of the outrage.
“Spring” discovers a man wearing many
ancient bloodstains :
Tom Walsh, of the Newcastle
(N.S. W.) Gas Co., has seen some ex-
citement in his nearly-90 years.
When he was 20 he joined the
“ Faugh-a-Ballagh Boys,” and after-
wards (tot into nearly every scrap of
importance that the Ma country
took on. His first “go” was with
General Pollock’s division against
the “wild and wuzzy Afghans,”
as Walsh calls them. - They had
badly ill-treated Elphinstone’s divi-
sion in its retreat from Kabul. Walsh
was one of the 25 who volun-
teered to lead the attack over the
approach to Fort Uni bey la, at the
entrance to the Khyber Pass. The
ground they traversed was supposed
to be well mined, and they were
practically trying the mines on
themselves for the benefit and
safety of the main attack
coming after. However, it,
turned out that there
were no mines and no
“wuzzies” either.
Walsh won a gold
medal for that trip.
In 1848 he was
slashing the Sikhs,
who were in re-
bellion. He didn’t
get a wound, but
was invalided
home with cholera, 1
while his regiment
journeyed on to
crumple up the
meek Burmese.
Sergeant Walsh
stayed in the Cold
Land for six years,
and in ’54 volun-
teered with the 42nd
Regiment for the
Crimea. He saw the
Charge of the Light
Brigade, and heard
Nolan give Cardigan
the order to charge.
When the Indian
Mutiny broke out, he
volunteered with the
70th. He saw the
trouble through, un-
harmed, and afterward s
went on to Maoriland,
in ’63, with the 70th.
When the argument was
over, he took his discharge on
pension and came to Newcastle,
and since then hasn’t run against
anj'thing more strenuous than a gas-meter.
Apropos the fight at Broken Hill over
what is a fair thing to pay the men who eat
lead-dust and chew ’fracteur fumes in the B. H.
Prop, mine, it would be interesting to know what
Wade’s Stipendiary Magistrate, specially sent up
to deal with the riot and other cases, got by way
of special living allowance. When the last ruc-
tions occurred at Broken Hill, Whittingdale
Johnson, S.M., was sent up from Sydney. For
part of the time he drew as much as three guineas
a day. in addition to his salary; and even then
he used to complain afterwards that he had been
treated in a niggardly way.
Letters from London report the death of
Charles Turner Severin Woolley, late captain in
the Bengal Cavalry, only son of Dr. Woolley,
first Principal of Sydney University. Miss
Woolley, the old Doctor’s daughter, remained in
Australia after her father was drowned. It is to
keep her memory green that the Woolley musical
scholarship has been founded.
E. G. Blackmore, first clerk of the Federal
Parliaments, who died a few days ago, was one of
the founders of the Adelaide Hunt Club, and
filled every office in turn in connection with it.
In the first Hunt Cup, in 1868, Adam Lindsay
Gordon, the poet, rode Blackmore’s Lanoelot,
finishing third. Till Parliamentary duties called
him to Melbourne, Blackmore always trained his
own horses.
Of the four executive officers of the
Federal Convention, which framed the Australian
Constitution, not one is now in politics. Kingston,
the president, has gone; R. C. Baker, chairman
of committees, is ending his days out of the hurly-
burly ; Barton, the chosen leader of the Con-
vention, is on tlie High Court Bench ; and E. G.
Blackmore, clerk of the Convention, died a week
ago, after a months-old paralytic stroke from
which he never recovered.
Some Australian birthdays for March :
Philip Fysh, 74 on the Ist; Edward Dyson, 44 on
the 4th ; General-Manager Russell French, of the
Bank of N.S.W., 02, and Surveyor-General
Strawbridge (S.A.), 66 on the sth ; Oscar Seppelt
(S. A.), the owner of the biggest winery in Aus-
tralia, 63 on the Bth ; Tom Roberts, artist, 53 on
the 9th ; Judge Homburg (S.A.), 61 on the 10th ;
Rupert Clarke, 44 on the 16th ; E. W. O’Sullivan,
63 on the 17th ; cricketer Clem Hill, 32 on the 18th ;
Admiral Bosanquet, the new Governor of S. A.,
66 on the 22nd ; Bishop Murray (Maitland), 81 on
the 25th; Prof. Mitchell (S.A.), 48, and George
Giffen, 48 on the 27th ; ex-Premier Walter James
(W.A.), 46 on the 28th ; Prof. Tucker (Melb.), 50,
and Colonel R. E. Roth, 51 on the 29th.
“ Jared's ” obituary notice ;
The Grand Duke Vladimir, whose death was announced
lately, looked more like a villain of melodrama than any-
one I ever saw by daylight. He was pointed out to me
for the first time at Nice about 15 years ago. He was
with Oscar Wilde, and I have never since got out of my
mind the recollection of those two large, solemn men
pacing slowly by in grey flannel suits, turn-over collars,
and Alpine hats—articles common enough now, but in
those days amazingly original. The Grand Duke had a
neat but unpleasant wit. He became convinced that
Isidore de Lara, the opera singer, loved too well a great
lady of Monaco. His method of indicating his suspicions
was to cause a placard, with “ Ici dort Lara ” written on
it, to be hung outside the lady’s hotel apartments. He
was, of course, one of the reactionary Grand Dukes, so
execrated by the Russian revolutionaries of three years
back, who were responsible for the regime of slaughter
that followed the Russ-Jap w f ar. All the prominent
European writers during 1905-0 agreed that the Czar-
weak, kindly, terrified, and a religio-maniac—was a pup-
pet in his uncles’ hands, and of tnose uncles Vladimir was
the ablest and most authoritative. He bore the reputa-
tion of being the most chronic gambler in the Imperial
family. Which is to say that, in the gambling line, he
was a very big circumstance indeed.
Caran d’Ache, who died last week, was
the only black-and-white artist who ever caused
a member of a Royal Family to be expelled
from a London club. During th<s Boer war Caran
d’Ache supplied the Paris Figaro (whose car-
toonist he was) with a blistering series of cari-
catures of British generals, politicians, and
royalties. The Cold Land stood the great
draughtsman’s assaults on its soldiers with
fair equanimity, and his demoniacal portraits
of Joseph Chamberlain and others of the Con-
servative party were highly approved in many
quarters. Not so his representations of the
late Queen. They were awful. While the
feeling against Caran d’Ache was running high
on the latter score, the Due d’Orleans. head of
the Bourbon-Orleans House, went out of his way
to write to the blaspheming artist and congratulate
him on his fine work. As the Due had been a
refugee in England Since his expulsion from
France in 1886, and had actually “ held a com-
mission” in the 60th Rifles, his action was
regarded as superfluous—in fact, studiously
offensive. The election committee of the
Bachelors’ Club—a “smart” London institu-
tion to which the Due belonged— met and
decided to deal it out to the erring foreigner. He
was fired, ultimately, under the clause empower-
ing the committee so to treat one guilty of “con-
duct unbecoming a gentleman.” The long-
standing friendship of the old Queen for him
and his family was adduced as a fact which made
his obtrusive enthusiasm for Caran d’Ache all the
more dastardly. Caran d’Ache was something
more than a political cartoonist. He had the
same gift for instilling an atmosphere of horror
into a black-and-white drawing that Edgar Allan
Poe had for instilling the same atmosphere into a
short story. No one who has seen his weird pic-
tures of slum life in Paris will ever forget them.
Down a grimy deserted lane by the river one of
his masterpieces showed a stout old bourgeois
with a young woman. She is the decoy of the
two Apaches whose forms are to be seen, knives
in hand, crawling rapidly along in the shadow of
the wall. The doomed oldster, glancing
affrightedly over his shoulder, realises what is
going to happen to him. Those were the painful
subjects in depicting which Caran d’Ache de-
lighted, and was inimitable.
FATHER JOHN’S CAMEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The late Father John of Kronstadt left £200,000. His
library was found strewn with bank-notes, and cheques
were found among- the books and manuscripts.—Cable-
gram.
And again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to go
through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter
into the Kingdom of God.— Matthew xix., %.
Good St. Peter was sorting his heavenly keys,
When a cherub flew in and said, “ Sir, if you please,
There’s a man at the gate and he’s down on his knees,
And he's doing some tricks with a camel.
Sir, he told me to call you ; he wants to come in,
But he’s laden with money—and money is sin—
But the camel does tricks with a long sort of pin.
Will you see, sir, the man with the camel ?”
Then St. Peter uprose with a heavenly frown,
And he strode to the drawbridge, and, frowning, looked
down,
For he hated the thought of a wandering clown
Doing tricks with a pin and a camel.
Then he spoke to the man and he bade him begone
From the heavenly threshold that glittered and shone ;
But the mountebank said, “ I'm the late Father John,
And I’d like you to look at this camel.”
Then St. Peter, enraged, said “ My man, do you know
That we never encourage a wandering show?
Don’t stay loitering here 1 Take your camel and go,
For we don’t like the smell of a camel ; ”
But the wandering soul came up close to the Gate,
And he signed to St. Peter to watch and to wait,
Ere he drew from his girdle a thing of no weight,
And held it in front of the camel.
“ ’Tis a needle, St. Peter, of moderate size ;
On its eye, pray observe, are fixed both the beast’s eyes.
Do not go 1 I assure you I don’t mesmerise.
Keep your eye on this highly-trained camel!
By the rules of this place I can never get in,
For I’m laden with money—and money is sin—
But this beast now (watch closely .') he starts to get thin !
He's a rather unusual camel! ”
Not a word said St. Pete on the high parapet,
But his eyes they were round, and his gaze it was set
On the wonderful beast which, he could not forget,
Had, one minute before, been a camel;
It was stretching for miles like a thread of thin mist,
Or a long reel of cotton or silk (double twist),
Whilst the eye of the needle, held tight in the fist
Of Pa John, waited there for the camel.
Ere three minutes had gone there was nothing to see
But a yellow thread floating about on the lea,
As if waiting a sign from the Saint with the Key
To proceed. “ Stop that terrible camel!
Stop that devil’s-own beast 1 ” cried the horrified Saint,
And he went lily-white as if going to faint,
And it certainly showed he had great self-restraint,
For he hurled not a curse at that camel.
“ Houp la 1 ” shouted John, and the great yellow thread
Waved along its great length, and rushed straight at the
head
Of the needle he held, and, as it swift sped
Thro’ the eye, it re-formed as the camel;
First the tip of its snout in the air did appear,
Then the head all complete with its cynical sneer
Looked around at the Saint, who was shaking with fear
And remarking, “ It looks like the camel 1 ”
Quicker still went the thread, and the grave camel grew
As his magical body went hurrying thro’,
Till his four legs and hump and his sad odor too
Made a solid and visible camel.
And the minute the tuft on his tail was complete,
Lo ! the thread was no more, and the camel did eat
Of the lilies that bloomed on the ground at his feet,
Indicating he was a true camel.
Now these singular verses are really absurd,
For the feat I’ve recorded has never occurred,
And Father John’s soul may, for all that I’ve heard,
Be still searching about for that camel;
But, providing the cable and Heavenly Writ
Are correct in their statements, I really think it
Is the solit’rv chance Father John has to flit
Thro’ the Gate where they won’t pass a camel.
N.s.w.
KODAK.


POPULARITY!
“What did you find on him, Bill?”
“ HAVELOCK CIGARETTES ! ”
“ Give us one ! ”


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“ NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Arthur Usplastrier& Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDIGO : Pali Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK —Winding 1 Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Standard Fire and Marine Insurance
Co. (Maoriland)
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1898 £4,373 6J per cent. = £4687 £34,915
1899 11,409 7% „ „ 5625 £5,754 40,699
1900 13,494 10 „ ~ 7500 5,994 46,693
1901 11,013 10 „ ~ 7500 3,513 50,206
1902 15,93 S 10 „ ~ 7500 £2OOO 6,438 56,644
1903 18,307 10 ~ ~ 7500 10,807 67,451
1904 12,715 10 ~ ~ 7500 5,215 72,666
1905 12,953 10 „ ~ 7500 5,453 75,119
1906 11,570 10 ~ ~ 7500 4,070 82,189
1907 12,697 10 ~ ~ 7500 5,197 87,356
1908 8.180 10 ~ ~ 7500 680 88,066
As the next comparison shows even more clearly, this co.
has not had a cheerful time during the past year :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 ..£49.004 £32,600 £15,033 66’5 p.c. 30’7p.c.
1900 .. 55,475 29,530 15,285 53’8 „ 27‘6 „
1905 .. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54’2 ~ 33‘2 ~
1906 .. 56,450 33,223 18,212 58’8 ~ 32’2 „
1907 .. 59,676 34,435 19,227 57‘7 „ 32"2 ~
1908 .. 61,070 39,820 20,083 65’2 ~ 32'9 „
That is to say, losses and expenses amounted to no less
than 98T per cent, of the premiums, leaving less than 2
per cent, of the premiums to represent underwriting
profit. Fortunately, however, the co. had enjoyed a run of
good years since 1897 (when it was struck rather heavily
by a Melbourne fire); and, as it has never put up its divi-
dend beyond 10 per cent., large additions have been made
to the reserves. Further, these, as well as the capital,
are invested in securities which give a high return ; with
the result that last year the interest earnings amounted
to £7OOO, or almost enough to pay the dividend. It is a
matter of opinion, of course, whether the high interest
return is sufficient compensation for the risk that the co.
has to take. Of the assets, no less than £72,141 is on
mortgage, and another£2o,s9s is in co.’s offices and other
property. Presumably the bulk of the mortgages
are on Maoriland property; and unless extra-
ordinary caution has been used, there will very
likely be considerable losses through the inevitable
shrinkage in Maoriland property values —a shrinkage
which has already set in. One trouble in connection
with mortgage investments by a fire insurance co. is that
almost invariably just at the time when it has to provide
for losses through depreciation of securities, it has also
to provide for much larger losses than usual through
fires. After mortgages the largest item in the books is
described in the balance-sheet as “ Debentures, £43,832” ;
and nowadays so many concerns issue debentures that if
this co.’s security consists of Government debentures
it would be as well to state the fact. The paid capital is
£75,000; that amounts to 15s. per share on 100,000
shares, leaving £925,000 uncalled —a nice little liability
for the shareholder to keep under his pillow to comfort
him in the night-watches when the fire-bell rings. So
far, however, as policy-holders are concerned, that, of
course, simply adds strength to a position which is very
strong even without that.
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Dividends on Added Nominal
Capital to Re- Re-
Profits. Actually paid, serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £15,090 134 p.c. =£4,500 £10,590 £104,300
June, 1903.. 10,501 ,, ~ 6,000 4,501 108,801
Dec., 1903.. 7,885 8 „ „ 3,000 4,885 113,686
June, 1904.. 12,881 12 ~ ~ 4,500 8,381 122,067
£47,067 Reserves written off ; £75,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1904.. 13,374 10 p.c.= 3,750 9,624 9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 „ ~ 3,750 7,017 16,641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 10 ~ ~ 3,750 5,017 21,658
June, 1906.. 13,674 30 „ ~11,250 2,424 24,082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 10 „ ~ 3,750 5,437 29,519
June, 1907.. 18,202 30 ~ ~11,250 6,952 36,471
Dec., 1907.. 13,117 15 „ ~ 5,625 7,492 43,963
June, 1908.. 15,899 20 ~ ~ 7,500 8,399 52,362
Dec., 1908.. 14,008 16 „ ~ 7,500 6,508 58,870
It is this way. Theco., formed by an amalgamation of
various small shipping interests, had a capital of £75,000.
No doubt the assets were written down hard at the out-
set ; and that, helped by economical management and
some luck, allowed the co. to capitalise £75,000 of re-
serves in 1904. Last year what was virtually a fine cash
bonus was distributed, 2000 more £lO shares being issued,
evidently at par. The capital (including the reserves
capitalised) is now £170,000 ; but the past half-year’s
dividend is 10 per cent, on the £150,000 at which the
capital stood before the recent increase. The profits
shown above are not, however, net profits ; that is to
sav, nothing is written off them to cover wear and tear,
and as a set-off to the bumps and barnacles which the
ships have accumulated. Of the reserves £33,550 is a
depreciation fund, and another £13,550 is an insurance
fund. The former, so far as it represents depreciation
which has actually occurred, is not a true reserve ; and
the insurance fund is a doubtful reserve. The co.’s way
of putting the half-year’s results works out as follows :—•
Added to Insurance Fund .. .. £1,050
Added to Depreciation Fund .. 3,550
Net profit ~ .. .. .. 9,408
Total £14,008
The addition to the Depreciation Fund is at the rate
of very little more than 3 per cent, per annum on
the book value of the fixed investment; but un-
fortunately ships are bundled up with leaseholds,
freeholds, docks, works, etc., so it is impossible to say
what percentage the £3650 amounts to on ships alone.
The new capital, as well as the reserves, has been put
mainly into ship property. The total of the fixed invest-
ment (book value) When the capital was increased in 1904,
and after the writing down, was £127,118 ; the item now
stands at £224,740, so that the co. has been pushing
ahead fast. The co. at Dec. 31, 1904, had £21,319
invested in debentures, fixed deposits, etc. ; on
the other side, its liabilities (including dividend) totalled
£16,546. The investments now amount to £3364, while
the liabilities (including current dividend) total
£42,422. This explains where some of the money
for the rapid extension has come from ; the greater part
is, however, profit (including Depreciation Reserve) and
new capital. The total available has been something like
this: —
New capital .. .. £20,000
Undivided profit (including- Depreciation
Reserve) .. .. .. .. .. 49,246
Investments realised.. .. .. 17,955
Added to liabilities 25,876
Total £113,077
Of this, as shown above, £97,622 has gone into ship and
other property, and the balance is represented by in-
creased book debts, stores, etc.
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship
Co. (N.S. W.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 .. £3092 6 p.c. = £3OOO £92 £8,793
June, 1905 .. 2960 6 „ ~ 3000 8,753
Dec., 1905 .. 3385 6 ~ ~ 3000 385 9,138
June, 1906 .. 3053 6 ~ ~ 3000 53 9,191
Dec., 1906 .. 5128 6 „ ~ 3000 2128 11,319
June, 1907 .. 6348 6 „ ~ 3000 334 S 14,667
Dec., 1907 .. 3247 6 ~ ~ 3000 247 14,914
IQn o UB3l 6 ~ ~ 30001 _ o . r
June, 190.8 .. Written off, £2500 / 11,24 a
Dec., 1908 .. 3271 6 p.e.= 3000 271 11,516
The co. does not show what amount of revenue, if any,
is written off to cover depreciation and wear and tear ;
and there is no way of finding out for certain. With a
co. which isn’t spending anything on new ships, an
idea can be got by tracing the diminishing amount at
which the ship item stands in the balance-sheet. But
when a co. is steadily buying new ships, that compari-
son isn’t possible. Take the following, for example :
Dec., Dec., June, Dec.,
1904. 1906. 1908. 1908.
Ship property ..£41,300 £59,363 £54,394 £85,550
Freeholds, etc. .. 7,175 4,122 3,614 3,291
Plant .. .. 2,730 3,503 5,316 5,496
Liquid assets .. 66,157 52,109 29,050 25,625
Debts to public .. 5,569 4,778 5,129 8,072
This shows that in the past six months £4156 has been
spent on ship property and charged to capital account;
but possibly another £3OOO or £4OOO was spent, being-pro-
vided out of revenue, and written off to counterbalance
the depreciation of the rest of the fleet. Something
ought to have been written off ; no doubt something was
written off. Between June, 1907, and December of the
same year the ship item shrank from £81,480 to £78,850,
from which it could fairly be assumed that in that half-
3 T ear at any rate (provided no ships were lost or sold)
£2630 of revenue was used for writing down this pro-
perty. Either too much or too little nqay be thus pro-
vided ; if too little—that is to say, if the management is
too optimistic—the net profits are over-stated. If they
are stated as fairly as it is possible to state them, then
clearly there has been very little margin over and above
the 6 percent, dividend. The first half of 1908 can cer-
tainly be disregarded ; for strikes, etc., happened in that
term. The co., as shown above, has added very greatly to
its ship property during the last few years. This should
increase the profits considerably in good times ; bub it
adds to the risks. The co. has been a consistent div.-
payer, but 6 per cent, seems to have been about as
much as it could manage for many years past; and
there are no obvious reasons to expect any very
large and steady expansion in trade. At any rate,
there is no reason to expect such an expansion as has
come the way of the inter-State shipping cos. since
Federation was established ; and the development of
that trade is likely to continue—rather to the disad-
vantage of the purely coastal services than otherwise.
As was shown last week, the income of the
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Co. (the M.L.C.)last
year in its Ordinary Department was £667,435 ; and the
expenses amounted to £74,674. The expenses were,
therefore, £ll 3s. 9d. per cent, of total income. But in
the year 1907 the premium income of the Mutual Life
Association, which is now incorporated with the Citizens’,
was £248,356; and it may be fairly assumed that the
M.L.A.’s proportion of the premium income was about
the same last year. Now, under the terms of the amal-
gamation, the M.L.A. must have its business done at
15 p.c. for the first year, and thereafter on a gradually
falling scale until in five years 10 per cent, is reached.
Deducting £lO,OOO on account of M.L.A. policies which
became claims during the year—a very liberal deduction —
the cost charged against the M.L.A. part of the business
was, therefore, £35,753 (that is, 15 per cent, on £238,356).
Then :—•
Total Ordinary expenses £74,674
Charged to M.L.A. policies .. .. 35,753
Balance of expenses £38,921
There is also this other little sum
Total income of the M.L.C. .. ..£667,435
Assumed premium income on old M.L.A.
policies 238,356
Balance .. £429,079
This is the income covered by the “ balance of expenses ”
shown above (£38,921) ; and on that basis the expense
rate would be only a shade over 9 percent, of income.
But there seems a fairer way to do it than that. It seems
more proper to assume that the £35,753 charged to
M.L.A. policies was the cost also of managing the assets
taken over from the M.L.A. In 1907 the M.L.A.’s
income from interest, rents, etc., was £92,485. Add
to that £5OOO as interest on the neb amount
added to the funds in 1907; total, £97,485. Deduct
that from the £429,079, and we get £331,594 of income to
be covered by the “ balance of expenses ’’ shown above ;
and that works out at an expense rate of £lllss. per
cent. This is for the old business of the Citizens’ and the
year’s business of the M.L.C.—the latter being business
in the fruits of which, by the way, the old M.L.C. policies
share.
Where there is an apportionment of expenses,
it is clear that the expense rate cannot be stated quite
accurately unless one knows the precise amount of each
office’s contribution to the total premium and other
revenue ; but the foregoing ought to be close to the mark.
Further, though the M.L.A. policies are charged 15 per
cent., that is on premium income. On total income (in-
cluding the assumed £238,356 of premiums and £97,485 of
interest, etc.) the rate would come down to £lO 12s. lid.
per cent. So we can get these comparisons
M.L.A. expense rate for 1907.. .. £l7 19 1 p.c.
M.L.A. expense rate for 1908.. .. 10 12 11 ~
M.L.C. expense rate for 1908(in which
M.L.A. policy-holders share for
bonus purposes) 11 15 0 „
The M.L.C. expense-rate shown in the last line was con-
siderably more than it should be in the future. For eight
months in the year, while the Courts were sanctioning
the amalgamation and other formalities were being com-
pleted, the concern had to keep two offices going.
Further, there were the legal expenses. In 1907 the
Citizens’ expense-rate was £8 Is. 9d. per cent., exclusive
of the shareholders’ proportion (one-fifth) of the bonuses.
It is hardly possible that for a few years to come that
point will be reached ; the amalgamation must inevitably
have landed the office into some extra expenses. Yet there
is very little doubt that, within a year or two, something
within very handy distance of that will be reached. And
later on better figures than ever should be possible.
So far as the old M.L.A. policyholders are con-
cerned, the improvement in their position is obvious.
R. D. Miller, who was the actuary of the M.L.A., and has
been appointed actuary of the M.L.C., reports: “The
benefit to the M.L.A. policy-holders is particularly
marked, as was to be expected owing to the extremely
favorable terms guaranteed them'by theco. Never in the
history of the Association has it earned in any one year
an amount of profits approaching that shown above [as
allotted to the M.L.A. section, viz. , £51,494].” The old
Citizens’ shareholders, who are also the shareholders of
the M.L.C., do not touch those profits. They, however,
take one-fifth, or £13,252, of the profits allotted to the
rest of the policyholders.
Then there is the much-discussed Industrial
section. Income was £217,371; expenses £84,268.
Therefore the expense rate was £3B 15s. 4d. per
cent, of total income. For the previous year
it was £39 3s. 6d. jjer cent., disregarding cer-
tain profits made in that year from the sale of
securities. It is dear insurance ; all that can be said is
that, of this brand, these figures are vastly better than
the average, and better than a few years ago were believed
to be possible in Australia, with its comparatively small
and scattered population. The organisation of the Citi-
zens’ —now the M.L.C.—has, however, done many re-
markable things. By the results—the hard, eloquent
figures—which it has produced it has beaten down a pre-
judice against its constitution. That constitution was
unique ; the old order of insurance authorities scouted it.
But the things which have been accomplished under it
have led to a wholesale change of attitude towards the
office ; and many who marvelled at what they regarded
as the audacity of the late J. P. Garvan, the com-
pany’s founder, have now come to marvel instead at his
perspicacity.
• *• * * *
The Christchurch Meat Co., one of the big
meat-freezing concerns of Maoriland :
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1905.. £9,618
1906.. £57,657 8 p.c. = £12,938 £44,719 54,337
1907.. 53,811 8 „ „ 13,005 £17,500 23,306 77,643
1908.. 37,075 8 ~ ~ 13,203 19,024 4,848 82,491
It is an erratic business ; for there are good and bad
seasons even in Maoriland. In the South Island the past
year has been unfavorable, so the carcases put through
the works fell from 1,590,682 in 1907 to 1,174,389 in 1908.
General expenses, however, were very little less, not-
withstanding the reduced output; and, on account of the
unfavorable season, it was no doubt impossible to buy on
good terms. While an unfavorable season puts up the
buying price of fat stock in Maoriland, that circumstance
is not big enough to appreciably affect the price at the
other end of the earth where the bulk of the goods are
sold. In two recent years, therefore —1898 and 1904—the
co. has passed the dividend. In the very good years,
however, a dividend-equalisation fund was established ; it
now amounts to £15,000, and this will help the co.
through in bad times. Of the balance of the reserves
£55,000 is a formal reserve fund. It will be noticed that
large amounts have been written off : of the £19,024 for
the past year £12,024 was spent on renewals and replace-
ments. The paid capital, though slightly increased dur-
ing the year, still stands at only £169,826; while land,
buildings, and plant stand in the books at £361,699. In pro-
portion to shareholders’ funds the amount written off is no
doubt large; but, then, themoneyraised on debentures and
mortgages alone amounts to £165,300. Other liabilities,
including amounts drawn against consignments, total
£71,815. On the other side are cash £15,805, sundry
debtors £49,153, and consignments, stocks, etc., £76,441.
Apart from the irregularity of the business and the heavy
weight of the liabilities, the point that needs considering
is whether enough is written off to cover depreciation,
which must be very rapid so far as some at least of the
assets are concerned. Unfortunately, no opinion can be
expressed on this point, as the property account is not
itemised.
* * ♦ *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
Jan., 1903.. 3214 5 p.c. = 2500 147 567 3,408
July, 1903..2584 5 „ ~ 2500 S 4 3,492
Jan., 1904..2604 5 ~ ~ 2500 104 3,596
Aug., 1904..2513 4 2-7 ~ ~2500 300 3,309
Feb., 1905.. 245 2J „ ~ 1250 2,304
Aug., 1905.. 1639 3J „ ~ 1666 2,277
.Jan,, 1906..2736 6 „ ~ 2500 236 2,513
July, 1906..3577 5 ~ ~ 2500 1077 3,590
Jam, 1907..3956 5 ~ ~ 2500 1456 5,046
July, 1907..4542 5 ~ ~ 2500 2042 7,088
Jan., 1908..4826 5 ~, ~ 2500 2326 9,414
July, 1908..5547 5 5-6 „ ~2917 2630 12,044
Jan., 1909..4590 5 5-6 „ ~2917 1973 14,017
In 1902, upon a revaluation of the assets, £12,500 had to
be written off capital and £5200 off reserves ; that is to
say, £17,700 which had previously been called profit was
not really profit at all, the assets having- been to that ex-
tent insufficiently written down to cover depreciation.
The co.’s trouble is that it has premises which even now
stand in the books at £103,625, apart from furniture, fit-
tings and plant (£12,328); and, though the business may
be able to stand a load of that kind in the future, so far it
is oppressive—it is like buying a very large perambulator
because there may be triplets by-and-bye, and then hiring
a very small nursegirl to push the one infant that be-
comes available. Still there is hope for the triplets. And
meantime this co. makes things a bit easier by gradually,
though slowly, paying off the mortgage,, thus relieving
the small nursegirl to some extent :
July, Jan., July, Jan.,
1902. 1908. 1908. 1909.
Mortgage debt .. 69,500 65,500 64,500 63,500
Other debts .. .. 15,761 26,800 20,226 22,478
Freehold, plant, etc.. 110,000 113,998 113,990 115,953
Stock 59,736 66,323 60,330 63,121
Book debts .. .. 20,616 23,893 25,442 23,838
“Other debts” certainly have grown just about as fast
as the mortgage debt has been wiped out ; but it does
not appear that much of it is carrying interest. Still,
debt that doesn’t carry interest has a habit of cost-
ing discounts, and nowadays trading profits consist
largely of discounts. The stock, as shown above,
stands at £63,121. It is obviously impossible
to test that item; and it is obviously possible
for a good deal of miscalculation to be made in regard to
a mostly-perishable stock of that size. On the other
hand,- the investor will no doubt take into account—(l)
The recent large increase of profit, which seems to point
to improved management (assuming that the stock
valuations are right); (2) the good margin of profit over
dividends ; and (3) the fact that, with the natural increase
of business, many of the standing charges (interest, etc.)
will not increase.
* * * *
Standard Mutual Building Society (Mel-
bourne) :
Profit on
Property Written Re-
Profits. Sold.' DividerrV off. serves.
Jan., 1903.. £2072 £412 6p.C.=£14,>4 £12,246
July, 1903.. 2041 339 6 ~ ~ 1434 £2OO 12,992
Jan., 1904.. 2230 612 6 ~ ~ 1434 14,400
July, 1904.. 1986 534 6 ~ ~1434 33S 15,148
Jan., 1905.. 2076 221 6 ~ ~ 1434 16,011
July, 1905.. 1880 170 6 „ ~ 1434 258 16,369
Jan., 1906.. 1869 441 6 ~ ~ 1434 17,245
July, 1906.. 1789 317 7-J ~ ~ 1752 200 17,399
Jan., 1907.. 2087 581 7£ ~ ~ 1752 18,315
July, 1907.. 1958 313 7J „ ~ 1752 150 18,684
Jan., 1908.. 1952 288 7| ~ „ 1752 19,172
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8 ~ ~ 1912 700 19,415
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 ~ ~ 1912 19,891
This society at last put its house in order in 1900, and
wrote off £49,600, being one-half its capital. The
writing-down of properties, on the other side, appears to
have been fairly severe ; as shown above, there has at
any rate been a long succession of recoveries, or “ profits ”
on sales. That is to say, the losses on realisation
haven’t been quite as severe as the writing-down provided
for. As these properties have been got rid of, more
regular building society business has been taken. on ; the
following comparison shows that and some other items :
Jan.,’ol. Jan.,’oB. June,’oB. Jan.,’o9.
Deposits, etc. .. £37,015 £27,884 £28,710 £30,741
Advances .. 19,998 41,557 43,188 50,055
Foreclosures .. 72,305 54,241 51,886 49,528
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 808 2,760 758
The figures are very good ; and the management seems
to be going on safe and sure lines. Thus, though there
appears to have been no difficulty in placing loans, the
deposits and other liabilities have increased very slowly.
That means that, though there must, of course, be some
risk in this sort of advance business, it is reduced, to the
minimum ; trouble comes in when deposits pour in, and
the manager is sent out with a coil of rope, along with
instructions to lasso somebody and make him borrow
something. Quite likely the foreclosed properties won’t
go on disappearing as rapidly as they have done during
the past few years ; for one thing, times have been extra
good, and, for another, new properties will no doubt drop
into the bin in the future. But there is this pleasant
feature about a concern that smells sweeter than the
average—even the foreclosed properties at their written-
down values show a net return so little below 6 per cent,
per annum that the difference doesn’t matter.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1903 ..£4786 6 per cent. = £3402 £I3S4 £4,784
Dec., 1903 .. 3408 6 „ „ 3402 6 4.790
June, 1904 .. 3917 6 ~ ~ 3402 515 5,305
Dec., 1904 .. 3920 6 ~ ~ 3402 518 5,823
June, 1905 .. 4606 6 ~ ~ 3402 1204 7,027
Dec., 1905 .. 3472 6 „ ',, 3402 70 7,097
June, 1906 .. 4266 6 ~ ~ 3402 564 7,961
Dec., 1906 .. 3497 6 ~ ~ 3402 95 8,056
June, 1907 .. 4734 6 „ „ 3402 1332 9,388
Dec., 1907 .. 3637 6 „ „ 3402 235 9,623
June, 1908 .. 4698 6 „ „ 3402 1267 10,919
Dec., 1908 .. 3298 6 ~ ~ 3402 10,815
The position of this co. doesn’t look attractive. The co.
has a paid capital of £lOB,OOO. Previous to 1900 it was
£168,750 ; but in that year the 135,000 issued shares were
written down from 255. to 165., and on the other side
goodwill was written off and other assets were written
down. The liabilities, apart from ordinary trade debts,
amount to £118,077 ; that is to say, the liabilities, apart
from ordinary trade debts, are just about equal to the
capital and the reserves. How all this money is invested
is shown (along- with some other details) hereunder
Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1902. 1907. 1908.
Mortgages, debentures, etc. .. £116,669 £120,987 £118,077
Freehold properties .. .. 180,482 181,302 182,262
Stock and plant.. .. .. 35,412 34,452 36,686
Sundry debtors, etc., less trade
debts 15,578 26,497 21,965
Gross profit on goods .. .. 10,770 11,813 11,54/
Rents .. ' 3,712 3,590 4,108
Management, discounts, etc. .. 8,236 9,096 9,302
Interest paid .. .. 2,458 2,970 3,054
The freeholds include the Cascade Estate, outside Hobart.
It looks very beautiful as you go up towards Mt. Welling-
ton ; but it doesn’t appear to be very profitable, and the
sale of subdivision blocks isn’t rapid, judging by the
figures. In the distant future things may come out all
right, and large profits may be made ; but meantime
there is very little return for the money. And all the
time the mortgages, and the debentures, and the over-
draft are in full working order ; and they won’t diminish
a ha’penny no matter what may happen to the value of
the properties. Then there is a doubt as to whether any-
thing (or, if anything, whether enough) is being written
off to provide for depreciation. “Repairs to houses”
certainly are charged ; but even the patched house
won’t last for ever. The past half-year’s pro-
fits were, as shown, insufficient to pay the divi-
dend. The only explanation that can be offered is
that rather more than usual was spent on repairs, and
probably bad debts were larger than usual; anyhow, the
lumped item, “Salaries, trade, brewing and travelling
expenses, bad debts, etc.,” totalled £6239 as against
£4787 the previous six months. The “ etc.” in a brewing
co.’s expenditure may stand for many things in these
days when “the trade” has to be continually on the de-
fensive, holding its end up at elections, subsidising trade
newspapers, fighting court cases, and handing out money
in other ways.
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.)_
v Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £1748 10 per cent. = £750 £998 £3,229
Dec., 1902 .. 1391 10 ~ ~ 750 641 3,8/0
June, 1903 .. 1248 10 „ „ 750 498 4,368
Dec., 1903 .. 1529 10 ~ ~ 750 779 5,147
June, 1904 .. 1268 10 ~ „ 750 518 5,660
Dec., 1904 .. 1503 10 ~ „ 750 753 6,418
June, 1905 .. 1547 10 „ „ 750 797 ',215
Dec., 1905 .. 1834 12 ~ ~ 900 934 8,149
June, 1906 .. 1773 10 ~ „ 750 1023 9,1/2
Dec., 1906 .. 1858 12 „ ~ 900 958 10,130
June, 1907 .. 1758 10 ~ ~ 750 1008 11,138
Dec., 1907 .. 1940 12 ~ „ 900 1040 12,1/8.
June, 1908 .. 1980 10 ~ ~ 760 1230 13,408
Dec., 1908 .. 1957 12 ~ „ 900 1057 14,465
From the profits of the past six months £lOO has been
written off property and £4B off effects ; this will bring
the former down to £l9OO, and the latter to £2OO. In the
table the profits are shown net. The assets are a very
substantial lot; of the total of £30,513 before paying-
dividend, no less than £26,395 is in cash or public securi-
ties. Especially if the quality of the investments is con-
sidered, the earnings on the basis of capital and reserves
are very fine; for the past 3 T ear they amounted to
£l4 9s. Bd. per cent, after the writings-off. The value of
the estates in hand is £1,369,749, as against £1,098,331 in
June 1905, when the figures were first published. The
gross income for the past half-year was £3746 ; allowing
4 per cent, to have been earned by investments, then
about £3220 was derived from the business, or at the
rate of 9s. 4d. per cent. . per annum of estates in
hand. This is so much above the average receipts of
trustee cos. —the average is probably about ss. per cent.
—that it seems most likely that the co. does also a profit-
able agency business. The co. has a paid capital of
£15,000, in 20,000 shares paid to 15s. ; and there is a
liability of £1 15s. The reserves are, however, so sub-
stantial, the investments so gilt-edged, and the powers
and obligations of trustee cos. now so well defined that
the liability can be taken much less seriously than it used
to be. #
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’02.. 5081 8/17/9 p.c. = 4620 461 5,242
June, ’O3 .. 5133 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 513 5,755
Dec., ’O3 .. 5132 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 512 6,267
June,’o4 .. 5032 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 412 6,679
Dec., ’O4 .. 5192 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 572 7,20 l
June,’os .. 5075 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 455 7,706
Dec., ’05.. 5138 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 518 8,224
June,’o6 .. 5083 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 463 8,687
Dec., ’O6 .. 5242 8/17/9 „ ~4620 622 9,309
June,’o7.. 5238 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 618 9,927
Dec., ’O7 .. 5903 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 3000 8,210
June,’oB .. 5432 8/17/9 „ ~4620 812 9,022
Dec., ’OB.. 5690 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 1070 10,092
This co., which nowadays presents its accounts in a very
much improved form, runs both gas and electric light,
though the latter part of the business does not appear to
be pushed. And it is only a small business, anyhow—
just big enough, probably, to keep out others who might
push it vigorously and thus interfere with the gas profits.
On a total capital outlay of £17,135 (including money out
in book debts) the co. only shows a profit of £lO3 for the
half-year on the electric light undertaking ; but that is
after providing £l2Bl, or no less than 44 per cent, of the
total revenue, to cover “ repairs, renewals, and depreci-
ation of .plant, including maintenance of lamps. Appa-
rently the idea is to write the plant down very
severely out of profits, until it will stand at practically
nothing in the books. It looks as though the co. were
not verv anxious to make it show a profit. The “fixed
investment” (land, buildings, plant and mains) in the gas
business stands in the books at £91,242. From that £2234
is written off for repairs, renewals and depreciation. It
seems a reasonable provision—which is another way of
saying that the profits are probably not over-stated, and
that the worn-out capital is being fully replaced out of
gross profits. The co.’s paid capital is £99,000, in £2O
shares paid to £lB ; and the liabilities amount to under
£4000.' Book debts would wipe the lot out besides pro-
viding the current dividend.
The 1908 figures of the New York Co. show that
the big American life insurance concerns have got over
their shock. In the 12 months it wrote £28,641,000 of
new business, and was able to declare £1,562,000 of
bonuses or “dividends ” payable to policy-holders during
the current year. Before the trouble arose and the
American offices were put through the refining furnace,
this co.’s new business had run up to about £60,000,000 a
year ; by law, however, it is now limited to £30,000,000.
Hence, only the more easily and cheaply got business is
now sought after, to the great advantage of the expense
rate. Detailed figures have not yet come out, but it is
stated that the expenses were £123,000 less than in 1907.
The total outlay, as cabled, was £2,170,670 ; the total
income was £21,049,179 (including £1,114,734 new-business
premiums). On that basis the expense rate was almost
exactly 10 per cent, on the basis of total income, or 13J
per cent, on the basis of premium income—the latter a
remarkable shrinkage from the 21 per cent, and there-
abouts shown a few years ago. In some respects the new
American insurance legislation ties the offices down very
tight ; but the advantages which have come out of it are
also obvious.
* * * *
Judging bv a circular that some shareholders
have received, the Sydney Meat Preserving Co. doesn’t
let even its own directors know the details of its remark-
able business. As described hitherto, the co. doesn’t pay
dividends; its buyer is always at the Sydney stock sales,
and when prices sag he bids up, and thus keeps prices
high. On most of the stock thus bought the sellers
allow the co. a rebate for its services. The shareholders
are nearlv all big pastoralists, and they get their profit
through 'the higher price which the public has to pay
through this buyer being always in the market. Recently,
it seems, a man who isn’t a pastoralist became a large
shareholder, and subsequently a director ; and now, in a
circular to other shareholders, he alleges that he can t get
information about the co.’s doings, though he is a director.


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner). -
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“ VIA PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
I**'Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing - direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4|d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accented
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Im M e [h al Buildin g:s, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD., S TS>
[i
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, Kalgooriie.
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating' mills and workshops, ever}' small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that, make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction* ReeeJit exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
■K * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weights and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co*. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
+ * * *
To Assay ers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton* Grimwade and Co, hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
One Wilkins’ two-Crank Compound Central
Valve, 45 k.w., 110 Volts, Combined Set, 901 b. Steam
Pressure. For Sale —complete, in good order —for reason-
able price. N.B. Ltd., E. S. and A. Bank Buildings,
King Street, Sydney.*
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of ’97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating' ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying-
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
R. and ,T. Dick, Glasgow, patented and made
“ Balata ” Belting, universally famed by its excellence
for heavy mine work. Their quality is still unapproached.
For protection against inferior imitations note the
maker’s name stamped on every few feet. Sole importers,
James Hardie and Co., Sydney and Melbourne.* [1
**■*•■*
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under
date October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ln every branch of busi-
ness success has been marked with sagacious management,
and it must be highly gratifying to all concerned to note
that the huge surplus at %he last valuation has been put
to most excellent and practical use in strengthening
its resources.”*
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depSt for Best Yorkshire
“ Farnley ” Iron.*
* * . • *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat ; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tknax” brand, which is
. superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Plill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of.suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting- Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silbhrberg and Co., 443 Bourlte Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector's
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights : pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * -* *
Power users seeking to cut down working
expenses should consider the claims of the Ruston Suc-
tion Gas Plant. The Producer and Engine form together
a complete system, no steam boiler being required and
working on the high compression principle, regularity in
running and the greatest economy is ensured. When
compared with other forms of power it works out consid-
erably cheaper than electricity, steam oil, or the ordinary
gas engine, the running cost being only Id. for 10 8.-H.P.
per hour. Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Syd-
ney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, will give full par-
ticulars to those interested.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
49S Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
OTTOS AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
LUBECKSR MACHINE
Manufactured by. J. Pohlig, Cologne, as
"supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
COMPANY B Excavators anti Dredging- Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. 1,3
It is very doubtful whether a case of the sort has ever
occurred before in Australia ; and there are the makings
of a remarkable struggle in it. But those concerned
know far too much to allow the shindy to occur in public
if they can help it.
* -* * *
Justice Higgins, of the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court, gave both Secretary Dickenson and Chairman
Darling, of the Broken Hill Prop., a pretty bad time when
they got in the witness box. In the boom year 1907 the
co. paid£s2B,ooo in divs., and put large sums by, and the
Judge wanted to know whether in view of that they
thought it was a fair thing to fire in a demand for lower
wages as soon as things went against the co. to a small
extent. “ Don’t you think you should have provided for
a time like this?” the Judge asked in effect, and all that
Darling could weakly reply was that a lot of things that
ought to be done were left undone. But, said his Honor,
even after the divs. have been paid and large amounts
have been written off, the co. professes to have a profit
and loss balance of £522,703. The chairman urged that
this wasn’t cash. No, said the Judge; but it is
supposed to be as good as cash—“ I wouldn’t
venture to suggest that you have taken credit for things
you haven’t got.” And his Honor might have gone
further than that, and pointed out that during all the
years it has worked the co. has been producing zinc “ tail-
ings ” and other by-produots, now awaiting re-treatment,
for which it has not taken any credit at all, though the
enormous piles contain millions of pounds’ worth of
metal. Id must be fairly obvious to the directors by this
time that they made a bad mistake in asking the Court
to fix lower wages than all but one of the other mines on
the field had agreed to pay, and are now paying. Two
scales of wages for one line of lode would be unworkable.
But, unfortunately, it won’t necessarily end the trouble
even if the Judge awards the rates paid by the other cos. ;
because, though the B. H. Prop, will have to pay that
rateto_the men it employs, ic will be under no legal
obligation to employ as many men as it did before. In
fact, it couldn’t do it for long even if it wanted to.
Chairman Darling, by the way, didn’t “smile
indulgently.” In fact, he says he didn’t smile at all.
When The Bulletin some months ago repeated the truth
about the Broken Hill Prop.—that it had only about five
years’ore in sight at the recent rate of extraction—the
alarmed Adelaide papers sent around to interview various
people. Of course they all screeched the old screech
about the lode being “ practically inexhaustible.” John
Darling, however, didn’t screech; he “smiled indul-
gently,” the reporters said. Now he denies that he
smiled at all. In fact, with some qualifications (which he
doesn’t mention), he told the Court that The Bulletin
paragraphs were true.
* *■ * *
During the arbitration proceedings at Broken
Hill and Port Pirie, Justice Higgins seems to have re-
garded the B. H. Proprietary as abvilful child that needed
coaxing with sweetmeats. At the outset the Proprietary
said it would not promise to resume operations at full
pressure when the Arbitration award was given, but it
would do so on a limited scale. Ever since then his Honor
has been trying to persuade the co. to say it was sorry
and would be good. But, unfortunately for the Judge’s
well-intentioned efforts,- the Prop, has the stiff neck that
comes from the possession of a well-filled purse. It has
determined to follow out a certain course of action, in-
volving a restricted output, and the establishment of a
solid customs business in metals. And while it is doing
that it will go on punching the unexplored ground. By
following this policy the five years’ ore now blocked out
will be made to last much longer.
The patience of shareholders in the Broken
Hill Junction has many times been tried and found to be
a most reliable article. Just now it is getting another
severe twist. Contrary to expectations at the time of
the reconstruction of the co., the lead market didn’t soar,
and at the present moment the new ore located at the
/75/fc. and 900 ft. levels doesn’t make the position any
better than it was six months ago. Even if the ore were
opened up ready for sloping, the Junction could not work
at a profit at present metal prices. And now the Board
is in a tangle to know whether it ought to authorise the
large expenditure nepessary to drive the 900 level, or
keep on being Micawber and wait for something else to
turn up.
In the half-yearly report of the Broken Hill
South mention is made of 35,000 tons of high-grade
friable ore developed by exploration work on the 327 ft.
level. Although the report modestly refrains from say-
ing so, this ore was accidentally developed by the neigh-
boring Sulphide Corporation’s men while working - on the
boundary of the two mines. The place where they were
at work was very hot, as Justice Higgins found out when
he visited it recently, and permission was obtained from
the South Co. to put in a drive and sink on to a winze on
the 379 ft. level to get ventilation. In carrying out this
work the 35,000 tons of high-grade ore was added to the
South’s reserves. ,
The demand for pig-iron is just now so slack
that the output of crude ore from Oarcoar for Lithgow
(N.S.YV.) is limited to about 1200 tons a week. The Aus-
tralian production of pig-iron doesn’t yet reach one ton
to every 100 inhabitants, as compared with an average of,
roughly, one ton of pig-iron for every six or seven people
in America, Germany, and England ; so even with our
present population there is enormous scope for the in-
creased production of pig-iron. But the manufacturing
element must be promoted with energy—that is the weak
point in the situation-at present.
* • * *
The undertaker is kept busy at Oobar (N.S. W.)
these times. The North Budgery Blocks, a child of the
Budgery boom, has just been buried.
Unlike a good many other of the Cobar district
boom floats, Restdown Mines, Ltd., isn’t prepared to give
it best, though it has got down nearly to the bottom of
the petty-cash box. The directors want to test the 300 ft.
level; and as they can’t do it on calls there is to be an
issue of 100 more £25 shares.
There is again talk in Cobar of the English-
owned Cobar Gold Mines being taken over by the Great
Cobar ; but there appears to be no special reason to
expect that the long-talked-of deal is coming off at once.
In fact, Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd., has one of its directors
on the road out now to pass his opinion on a treatment
scheme proposed by the Australian management.
* * * *
Some of the more recent “floats” at Wyalong
(N.S.W.) are having a bad time, and a few reputations
are being shattered in the process. The Klondike has
been granted a further three months’ suspension, to give
the co. time to get the capital which it ought to have
had at the beginning. In granting the suspension,
Warden Gibson said that it appeared to him that the
concern wasn’t on a proper basis at its inception. The
Called Back will probably be auctioned. As to other pro-
perties not classed as Wild Cats, but partly controlled by
the same syndicate, an expert from Sydney has arrived
to report on matters in connection with the Homeward
Bound ; and John Campbell, manager of the True Blue*
has been engaged to diagnose an alleged ailment at the
Barrier claim.
*
The principal Westralian results for January
were as follows
Value
Be- per
Tonnage, venue. Profit. torn
Great Boulder .. ~ 16,460 £49,020 £26,528 59/7
Golden Horseshoe .. 22,656 52*104 20,140 46/-
Ivanhoe .. .. .. 19,505 42,316 21,016 43/4
Boulder Perseverance.. 18,156 31,048 11,049 34/2
Kalgurli 10,750 29,045 16,314 55/-
Associated .. ~ 11,007 22,712 6,683 41/3
Sons of Gwalia .. ~ 13,498 20,498 6,538 30/4
Oroya-Brown Hill 11,565 19,397 5,863 33/6
Great Fingall .. .. 14,436 15,010 1,733 20/10
South Kalgurli .. 9,038 12,520 2,516 27/8
Associated Northern ~ 3,750 7,411 2,498 39/6
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,500 11,283 4,086 50/2
Golden Bidge ~ 2,200 5,570 2,791 50/8
Maranoa .. .. 2,162 4,216 1,949 39/-
Lake View Consols .. 7,733 9,210 2,492* 23/9
Black Bange .. .. 1,519 5,504 2,410 72/6
Hainault 5,548 6,585 401 23/9
Golden Links .. .. 3,820 7,189 894 37/7
North White Feather.. 1,970 3,248 626 33/-
Northern Mines .. 8,350 7,435 21 17/10
Gwalia South .. .. 1,905 4,654 757 48/10
Cumberland .. .. 610 1,878 306 61/5
Orion 600 1,140 340 38/10
* Including £863 earned from treating Golden Links ore
and £623 derived from retreating old slimes.
Gwalia Consolidated made a working profit of £2462 on a
recovery of 30s. 3d. per ton ; but £4793 was spent on
capital account, so the surplus was converted into a
shortage of £2331. Boulder No. l’s miserable return of
11s. 2d. per ton, and £2350 excess of expenditure over
receipts, is ascribed to a sudden impoverishment in the
stopes. But they are said to be “looking better now.”
* * * *
Burma Mines, Ltd., in which the Lake View
Consols Co. holds a big swag of debentures and other in-
terests, is again hanging over the precipice. Since the co.
was floated in 1906 the capital has been increased from
time to time by the creation of preference shares with a
small liability tacked on to them, and now an attempt is
being made to raise another £40,000 by the same means.
The Board “hopes and believes’’ that it will not be
necessary to call up more than £27,000 ; while if the
directors can prolong the temporary loan of £lO,OOO
which they managed to raise by changing the co.’s
bankers and giving their personal guarantee, it “may
be possible to pull through with less.” Something
like this has, however, been said on previous occasions.
Nevertheless, one thing to be said in the co.’s favor is
that the necessary railway has been built, and no doubt
this went a long way towards inducing those who attended
the meeting to sanction the Board’s latest scheme for
bleeding shareholders. Everything now depends on the
treatment of the old slags and the discovery of a mine
underneath the old workings ; and it would be hard to
find a shareholder who hasn’t got some fears about the
result.
* * * *
Louis Aarons told shareholders from the chair
at the South Kalgurli meeting that the co. had on Janu-
ary 14 liquid assets consisting of cash, high-grade invest-
ments, gold in transit, and stores amounting to £70,000.
After the whoop which followed this announcement had
died away, one solitary critic rose and asked why so much
wealth was kept in hand ; but as it appeared to be the
wish of the meeting to remain in utter darkness, he did
not press the question.
Ivanhoe (W.A.) still wears a very solid appear-
ance. The December estimate of reserves represented
about four years’ supplies, but this does not include the
ore between 1670 ft, and 1820 ft., which recent work has
shown to be considerable and of good value. Something
like 20,000 tons are now being treated monthly, but the
hole thus made in the reserves is at present being more
than made up by the new stone developed; and, though
it is early to speak, it doesn’t look as if the next estimate
will show any decrease in the quantity in sight, or that
the total gold contents will be any less than they are
now.
* * *
Jubilee, of Scarsdale, that bright patch in Vic-
torian mining, managed less dividends during the past
six months than in any other period of its gilt-lined
career. On a capital of £36,000 it has, since the end of
1900, paid £125,100 in divs. ; but only £3600 of the lot —
or just half the recent average—came in the past six
months. The chief trouble is that, while costs are a
fraction higher, the average gold contents have got down
to a sensation under 6dwt., worth £1 3s. 7d. per ton ; and
working costs are 15s. B|d. No estimate of reserves is
given ; but the No. 15 level is opening up very well, so far
as quantity goes ; and things are ail ready for shooting
out to get the reef at the No. 16 at 1836 ft. deep.
■*-*■■*■■*
Charters Towers (Q.) mining continues dead,
and the town is waiting for one of the Brilliant shafts to
bottom on 4oz. stone, when things are expected to boom
some. Two of the leading brokers either have their
doubts about the 40z., or are tired of waiting, so they
have given the old buli-and-bear game best, and bought
sugar farms down the coast with the proceeds of the last
flutter.
■» * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, in conjunction
with the New Brilliant Freehold, is to put a bore in from
the end of No. 10 level, which has nearly reached the
boundary of the two leases. The idea is to go northwards
to test the hanging-wall reef which gave such a rich
return from the Freehold's No. 6 level. There is also an
idea that the Brilliant reef may extend as a parallel
formation much further west than is indicated by the old
workings. The improved prospects of the Brilliant Deeps’
south-west level and the formations intersected in sinking
the N. B. Freehold shaft have raised a great many hopes.
What has been proved is that there are numerous veins of
quartz of irregular size and value, and that when geolo-
gical conditions are favorable, a highly payable and some-
times exceptionally rich run of stone may be found. The
rich returns from No. 6 E. Mexican, No. 6 hanging-wall
reef in the N. B. Freehold, a short section of the Brilliant
Deeps, and part of the main Day Dawn eastern level show
how riches alternate with poverty in these deep forma-
tions ; and they also shed a light on the probable feature
of the Towers.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, is in for a
considerable amount of dead work to improve ventilation
and haulage ; so, despite the rich yield from 98 tons of
stone, the market isn’t gambling on the future of the
show to any great extent. The aggreg-ate return from
three trial crushingshas been3oo tons for £1557. Brilliant
Central shares have attracted a good deal of attention,
and there has been quiet buying on the strength of a
small reef they are driving on at 1175 ft. The returns are
apt to create a false impression of poverty, because the
battery yield and that from concentrates do not always
appear simultaneously. The last lot of 480 tons yielded a
total of £1135. Brilliant Extended is crushing about
4000 tons a month, and has been increasing its cyanide
plant in order to treat more tailings. No. 18 is being ex-
tended in the footwall in order to facilitate the ventilation
and working of the mine, so the full strength of the
deepest level will not be known for some time. The
Brilliant reef has been driven on about 400 ft. in the level
above (No. 17), so the mine looks likely toehold its own in
the matter of ore reserves.
* * * *
Still another change in Oloncurry (Q.) mine-
management—Neville Leese succeeds R. C* Alabaster at
the Great Australian, the English-owned Queensland Ex-
ploration Co.’s old property, where a struggle has been
made to do some smelting lately*
■* * * *
Queensland Exploration, Cloncurry, is pro-
specting the 300 ft. level of the Gt. Australia lode. Con-
sidering that the mine was discovered and first worked a
lifetime since, and produced a quantity of rich ore from
near the surface, the fact that the workings are only at
300ft* shows how slow a job prospecting may become
when the mine is held as a freehold. Low-grade pyritic
ore has been met with, and the lode is becoming more
defined. A winze is being sunk from the 250 ft. level on
good ore* so the prospect of eventually striking some-
thing payable at the 300 ft. is pretty fair. At any rate*
thev are throwing no chances away, and are opening
levels only 50ft. apart. The last monthly return was
205 tons matte, containing 53 per cent, copper, from 1568
tons ore. This co. was the first on the field to success-
fully tackle the smelting of the refractory oxidised ore
containing a good deal of quartz* with sulphides from the
lower levels* The extraction has averaged between
7 and 8 per cent, copper* and this is expected to leave a
small margin of profit* Still, it is hard to tell. Some of
these Queensland mines exclude development from their
bill of costs, and as many of them also turn out a half
fledged product like copper matte, the question of actual
profit remains a dark mystery. Apart from that, the
weakest point in the Q.E. Co.’s position is the smallness
of the ore reserves.
* * * *
The tragic side of a miner’s life was shown by
the entombing of a man the other day among the crushed
stopes and timbers of the Lady Jane, at Mungana, Chilla-
goe (Q.). This mine has provided an output of about 2000
tons per month—mostly lead sulphides carrying a
little copper and silver —so the collapse of the 210 ft. and
320 ft. levels is a serious thing for both Mungana and
Ohillagoe. Sadler’s shaft has not as yet been affected by
the creep ; its position with regard to the ore body is
shown by the long drive at the 420 ft. level, which has
been sent eastwards in solid rock for 256 ft., and was
thought to be in far enough to locate the main ore body.
It has been reported that good ore has been found, but in
such a place of patches reports of this kind need to be
swallowed with caution. The other mine owned by the
Mungana Co. is the Girofla, which will be unaffected by the
present disturbance, though it is not without troubles of
itsown. The 410 ft. level main tains a fair output of copper-
lead carbonates ; and the Girofla also provides quantities
of sulphide ore from the 510 ft. level, which is the deepest.
A contract has been let for diamond drill boring at the
510 ft., as it is thought that there maybe deposits parallel
to the known ore bodies.
* * * *
The Hirsch v. O.K. case completes its first
week in Brisbane with the partial examination of one
witness only, E. H. Snow, who has explained at length
the conditions under which the contract was drawn up,
and his interpretation thereof. As originally submitted
to the O.K. Co., the buyers asked that, in the event of
the monthly parcel being delayed in transit from the
mine to Cairns, the portion so delayed should be
paid for either at the market price at the time of
shipment or at the price during the month that shipment
should have taken place, the buyers to have the option.
The mining co. objected to this arrangement, and in-
sisted that Snow should choose one or the other, and he
decided on the latter. The contract started on a rising
market, and the arrangement suited him well. The co.
had to be content, because it could not possibly push
much more than the minimum through if it tried. But
when copper started on the down grade, and the
buyer was receiving considerably less than he paid
for the metal, there was trouble. Snow says
that the firm dropped £33,000 since May, 1907.
The contract allowed a margin from 150 to 250 tons per
month delivered in Cairns, in quantities to suit the pur-
chaser, and the trouble hinges on the fact that seldom
was the 150 tons minimum forthcoming. The co. will
apparently plead “ act of God,” or something of the kind,
to account for the failure to deliver the minimum. The
costly argument will last for some time, and with four
leading barristers on one side and three on the other
there will be Costs, and more Costs.
As recently predicted, the will of the share-
holders of the Gibb Copper Mines (Q.) has overcome the
desire of the directors to lead them into further outlay,
and the co. has- been wound up. Gibb’s option over
certain portions of the property was recently withdrawn,
and it is understood that he intends to work this portion
of the property on tribute. It is just possible that he will
reap the benefit of the development work paid for by the
co. It would not be surprising to see this group of mines
eventually fall into the hands of the Queensland Copper
Co., of Mt. Perry ; and, as an auxiliary to the co.’s other
properties, good management should make them a distinct
gain.
* * * *
The Mount Hector (Q.) folk seem to have gone
a step further than a mere suspension of smelting opera-
tions, and have apparently snuffed out for want of cash.
The bank began to be uneasy, and the result is that the
mine is at present in charge of a caretaker. The only
sign of life in the district now, apart from Many Peaks, is
at Glassford Creek, where a few men are engaged in de-
velopment work. The Great Fitzroy people are said to
have their eyes on this property ; but it certainly is not
much to look at ju st now.
* * * *
Some time ago the Tasmanian-owned Tongkah
tin-dredging concern in Siam was gently pushed forward
here as being well worth looking into. The trouble that
people struck was in getting the official reports con-
firmed ; for there are quite a lot of people who haven’t
got a reliable friend in Siam. Recently the dredge began
to do the talking; and it goes on talking—the last
powerful little sermon was 28 tons 13cwt. clean tin for a
fortnight’s work for one dredge. Under the circum-
stances, the fact that the public has come at the shares
with a rush isn’t surprising. In order to rush on more
dredges 13,250 reserved shares have just been issued
at a premium. At least three more dredges will be
provided at once. And there appears to be a fine time
ahead of them, provide/! they don’t strike too much clay.
If there is a fly in the ointment, that is probably the
insect, though up to now it doesn’t appear to be one that
need be feared.
* * * *
Runanga : No good for wages men, and want of
railways hampers the prospector. Suggest you write
Govt. Geologist, Adelaide.... C. 8.: Afraid your grievance
isn’t of general interest C.H.M.: In most such cases it
would be impossible to keep the amount earned by the
reserves separate from the other earnings, because the
reserves are invested in the business —that is, are used
for extending mains, plant, etc.
“ Australafriean,” an old Bulletin contributor,
from Jo’burg : “ Witwatersrand Beeps are g'oing to in-
crease their profits to 70 per cent, yearly. Robinson
Central Deeps will reduce their divs. to 45 per cent. ; but
the life of the mine will be 45 years instead of nine years.
Van Ryns are about normal. Princess will pay 25 per
cent, or more, and are still cheap. South Ran'dfontein
Deeps (155.) will pay 25 per cent, annually, and shares
are good. All these shares are held largely in Australasia ;
the writer is partly responsible for the selections. Busi-
ness good, and sometimes small booms appear. These
goldfields will soon be owned. by a few companies. Gold
output will be increased by 25 per cent, during the next
few years. Wages are still the highest in the world, con-
sidering the cost of living. Working costs are coming
down to 12s. fid. per ton on the big reefs. Politically,
Unification is certain. The Chows are going—they were
never wanted. Australians are still unpopular, and hold
no important mining jobs. There is a chance of a good
business year, as the ‘ houses ’ are forcing the market.”


HEERING’S
EST. 1818.
FOR
DIRECTOIRE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “SILVASHEEN” NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR IT.^ki
I’m the Robur Tea Girl,
and would like everybody to
know that Robur tea is
guaranteed full weight of leaf
in every package—generally
speaking, tea is sold wrapper
included in the weight, which
means you get 15j4 ozs. or,
maybe, if the paper is thick,
only 15 ozs. to the pound—
in other words you get when
you buy Robur from 34cL to Id.
worth more tea than you do
when you buy a pound of
some teas.
Please remember Robur
is the tea that has full weight
of leaf in every package.
The No. 1 Grade is
beautiful tea —you ought to
use it.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 2, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
Dr. John Hay’s death puts a well-known posse
of women into raven raiment. Mrs. Philip
Morton and her five or six sisters—the onlooker
never got the correct strength of Dr. Hay’s good-
looking, well-frocked tribe of step-sisters—are of
the group. Miss Hay was to have started for an
Asiatic trip this week with one of the Kelso King
girls for mate. Mrs. Alec Hay, the stepsister-in-
law of the late knight, is another of the clan
affected,
Melba got twenty telegrams at Fremantle, all
in one bunch, from Sydney-siders. She will
arrive in Melbourne this day (Tuesday) week,
and Paling’s Southwell will quit our 70 per
cent, of moisture (in the climate, of course) to
meet, and travel with, the skylark lady. In a
business, not a songful, capacity. Melba’s reason
for the abandonment of what was to be an oper-
atic tour was the. death of Signor de Sana, the
conductor of her choice. But as a recompense for
the missing orchestra she will sing with splendid
orchestral instruments, donated by herself,
and labelled “Gift of Melba.” Remote
towns, such as Moree and Casino, and
others whose inhabitants blush unseen from the
railway lines, and hamlets that drowse in Queens-
land—Melba will rain song upon them all. She
will most likely include Jindabyne in the tour.
Anyhow, the suggestion is hereby proffered.
Melba, with her secretaries, her agents, her chefs,
her gold-tissue frocks and motor cars and moun-
tains of luggage would knock the Valley up on
end. And as she waved a beringed hand and
ordered the inner walls of the hostel to be thrown
down so as to give her more bedroom space, the
hills would skip like the lambs of the flock.
Three months will pass before Melba sings in
Sydney. She will go to Maoriland first, thus
eluding the M.L. winter, and in our (alleged)
winter she will be singing through northern
Queensland. The tour will close in Melbourne at
Cup-time.
To Mrs Hannam, the only woman saved from
the Penguin disaster, must have been given the
moral and physical courage of ten ordinary
women. In a M.L. paper, giving a detailed
account of the tragedy, she tells that “it was soon
after the steamer disappeared that our boat turned
over. A huge wave overturned it. I had my
baby in my arms, and could see the breaker
coming. When it broke, I clung to the seat,
someone was hanging on to my dress, and the boy
Ellis Matthews was clinging to tny hair. I can-
not say how I managed to keep my hold, but I
swung in the sea beneath the boat, like the tongue
in a bell.” Two persons hanging on to her, and
she holding a third ! Only one arm could have
been free. She saved the boy Matthews and con-
trived to tie her (now dead) baby on to a seat.
And all in the black night and mountainous seas !
Her physical strength must nearly match her
courage. All the same, this is where you go about
your business murmuring the Mohammedan pro-
verb—"On two days it serves not to run from
thy fate —the appointed, and the unappointed
day. On the first neither balm nor physician can
save, nor thee on the second the Universe slay.”
I notice that the second officer, who had a bad
time in the water, attributes his survival to the
fact that, being a teetotaller, he was in splendid
physical condition. This statement will please
prohibition M.L. mightily. If only a combina-
tion of distilleries could get Mrs. Hannam to
attribute her marvellous escape to a daily practice
of drinking Bull Dog Rum in large quantities !
I picked up an evening paper on my homeward-
bound ferry-boat last Saturday. These words
were marked with a cross, and opposite them
were written in pencil in a feminine hand,
“Alas ! ” and “ Oh ! how true ! ” :
The passenger-carrying skipper of to-day is beset with
many worries and anxieties. He must be specially care-
ful that he countenances no soft overtures between his
young officers and the young charmers who abound in
the saloon and second-class.
I would like to commend the above to the notice
of the Steamship Company chairman whom the
cables lately reported as complaining of the
slump in the Australian passenger-carrying trade.
In these days of Women’s Liberal Conventions
and Suffragettes with dog-whips, the maiden
has a lot to say in the household’s politics.
Think you then that when papa and mamma are
discussing the different routes for the inevitable
trip “ Home ” that the flirtable daughter doesn’t
put her little oar in with powerful effect ! And
what healthy-minded girl would travel in a ship
whose uniformed males were forbidden to worship
her under pain of the sack ? Since the wreck of
the China, which occurred while a few gay young
officers were celebrating the natal day of a lady
passenger, friendly traffic between female voyagers
and ships’ officials—always excepting the doctor
and purser —has been discountenanced with an axe
by both P. and O. and Orient Steamship lines.
One result is that the damsel who visits Europe
has taken to the German and French lines, where
no such injurious restrictions obtain.
There was much to be said—barring an
occasional wreck—for flirtations between travel-
ling maidens and P. and O. and Orient officers.
The rornancelets amused the participants; also
they kept the navigators from drink on the one
hand, and the young women from Marie Corelli
and over-sleeping on the other. These little affairs
never did any cardiac damage to either party,
and didn’t come to anything, matrimonially speak-
ing, ninety-nine times out of a hundred. No girl
marries a mail-steamer official if she sees him in
mufti. I know one Australian maiden whose
second-officer flame made a rendezvous with her
in Hyde Park, London, a week after the ship
berthed at Tilbury. The youth, who had looked so
fascinating in his Lasear-bossing clothes, arrived in
a land-lubber’s rig—brown boots, blue serge
trousers, a frock coat, yellow hunting waistcoat,
crimson tie, and archaic silk hat. When the
worthy salt’s vis-di-vis had done reeling, she got
into a cab, went straight home, burned four
toy lifebelts with “H.M.S. Hindoo” inscribed
on them, 16 quartermaster’s cap-ribbons bearing’
the same legend, two dance programmes and a
like number of photographs labelled respectively
“ Dick ” and “ The Dear Old Ship,” and accepted,
by wire, the previously-offered hand, heart, and
banking account of a Bloomsbury tallow-chand-
ler. The tar did not mind. He had been under-
going the same experience for years. Let the
deep-sea steamship companies abandon their pre-
sent discouragement of “soft overtures between
young officers and young charmers,” and I will
engage that their passenger-lists will swell mar-
vellously.
A scream from Percy Grainger, all the way
from Rotorua (M.L.): “Mother and self are
enjoying this country hugely. I have phono-
graphed some Maori songs to take back to Lon-
don, and am arranging to have others sent. The
Maori rhythmical recitations are glorious, and I
have heard some native part-singing (through
phono, records) of Raratongans that I’ve gone
absolutely crazy about. It is not primitive music
at all, but genuinely polyphonic, with real har-
monic sense evinced right through. Full of vigor,
grace, and the joy of life.” After that, the men-
tion by Chrysosanthos Grainger that he has been
going in a good deal for swimming, and did his
first mile at Christchurch the other day, sounds a
feeble anti-climax.
It drags with a wide net, does Mr. Percy
Spence’s collection of works now showing at
Vickery’s Chambers in Pitt-street. “Lost” is a
big canvas that one would expect to see red-sealed
to our National Gallery—-a not uncommon Aus-
tralian tragedy : the lost swagrnan on a treeless,
waterless plain. But the painter has got the
atmosphere, the menace, so to speak, of the
Australia where such tragedies are possible.
The derelict sits rigid on the starved, un-
motherly earth, and stares intb space
with burning, sunken eyes, and dropping
jaw, realisation and despair bursting full upon
him. His dog crouches by and licks the tense,
gnarled hand of his master. And, as if in
mockery of the coming madness of the man, there
are tender tints of rose and grey in the early
evening sky. “Young Love ”is a joyous thing :
a girl, a tangle and riot of roses, and a swarm of
little Loves around the damsel. The expression
of wondering, learning innocence on the face of
the girl is worth some contemplation.
The “Gallant Highwayman” is a jewel
of the collection. The Georgian - dressed
figures of two men and a maid, and
three fine horses, on a lonely landscape, com-
pose it. The highwayman, bowing low, offers his
horse —old-fashioned revolvers in the holsters—to
the lady, her own having come to some grief in
the matter of a hoof. “ The White Roads of
France” illustrate in black and white a motor
journey done by Mr. Spence from Boulogne to
Milan (in Italy). A temple, a tower, a glimpse of
an old viaduct, a castled crag and a study of grow-
ing palms tied up for Palm Sunday—these are an
enchanting series, made for The Lone Hand.
Mr. Spence’s portrait work includes his own three
pretty little daughters and several distinguished
Australians.
Mr. G. H. Reid rolled up (honi soit, etc.) at the
Poidevin-Barnes wedding, and made what the
dailies describe as “ a humorous speech,” even as
he did at the White-Sly ceremony. He is an
excellent hand at this sort of thing. But then he
ought to be ; few N.S.W. citizens have speechified
more in their time than the inventor and first
expounder of Anti-Socialism. There is something
tragic about the spectacle of one who erstwhile
charmed—or maddened, as the case might be—big
political audiences reduced to spouting merry
platitudes at suburban wedding-feasts. If I were
asked to supply my idea of an ex-politician’s
Sheol, I think I should represent him saying for
ever and for ever the set banalities that are
expected from oldsters who orate at weddings.
The Arthur Allens gave, on last Friday night,
by way of bewailing the departure from these
shores of Captain and Mrs. Napier, the largest
private dinner that the Australia has known for
years past. Forty people sat down to it. During
their all-too-short stay the Napier pair have laid
themselves out to be sociable and obliging, with
all the assiduity of vice-regalities, and as a result
they make a wondrously popular combination.
Mrs. “Ted” Simpson and her son and Mr.
Ernest Watt arrived on the Moldavia last week.
Bv the same craft travelled Harry Rickards’
famous Chow juggler, who, I am credibly in-
formed, is in private life not a Chow at all. He
makes up for this trifling disadvantage by being
Al, or even more, as a juggler.
Mrs. Laing Meason, a Maorilander trans-
planted to Australia, has gone from Melbourne by
the Runic, bound Europewards, to look after the
fortunes of her Paderewski-headed, piano-playing
son, Magnus Laing Meason. Also she will try to
steer to profitable publicity several plays and
playlets, bantlings of her brain.
A departer for M.L. is Miss Anita MacArthur
Onslow,an English sproutof thelocal familyof that
name. When she came this way, some five years
ago, to visit a brother, her arrival and the brother’s
mysterious disappearance were almost coincident.
He was ill at the time, and it is surmised that he
was lost from Bouth Head.
An arrival by the Runic was Mrs. Mackenzie
Young, the young widowed daughter of Colonel
French. She, with her little girl—a picturesque
infant—sojourn at the Wentworth until their
return by the same vessel that brought them to
these smiling shores.
A number of well-known Sydneyites spread out
their deck-chairs on the China last week, includ-
ing the Villeneuve-Smiths (she was a Stephen),
Miss Phillis Mort, Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh (who
joins her money-spinning husband in London),
and the L. F. Heydon family.
Dr. “Johnny” Morton, of Edgecliffe-road,
poloist, cricketer, surf-battler, and la —(I was
nearly writing lady-killer, which would be a
ibellous thing to say of a medical man), and
favorite generally, is going to garner his orange
blossoms. Nurse Whitty, of the Steele and
Whitty hospital, will be his colleague in the
bridal-flora operation.
Mention of doctors reminds that a well-known
humpy in Wblseley-road, till now occupied by ben-
tleman One Thompson, has gone into the posses-
sion of Dr. Taylor-Young, who thus shifts from
Edgecliff-road'and the house with the disastrous
name of “Kilbride.;’ The gynecologist who
would go on inhabiting a house labelled “ Kil-
bride” would either need to have a full cargo of
cynical humor or an enormous disregard for
appearances.
A belated par. from a friend on the Morea :
“The brides, Mrs. Hugh Gordon and Mrs.
Friend, and Miss Darley were lamentably sick,
and a travelling railway commissioner talked so
much that the commander took to having his
meals before or after the fact.” A sea-sick
bride is a fearsome object to her bridegroom,
unless he be abjectly enslaved. I once travelled
on the same liner with a Lately-Plighted pair. She
was lemon-colored, shot with sallow, and seemed
a materialised moan. As he was not utterly en-
slaved, all the other passengers were glad that
marriages were as they are : “ For as long as ye
both shall live. Amen.”
Last week Mr. “Jimmy” Osborne narrowly
missed making a widow of the fair lady who was
Miss Maud Jeffries. He was motoring to Gun-
daroo with one of his brothers, at the almost de-
pressingly slow pace which the family affects,
when on the distant horizon appeared a horse
and cart. The next thing anybody knew was
that the foolish quadruped was shying and
gyrating in the middle of the road. Mr.
Osborne put his sparking plug hard a-star-
board, ported his carburetter, and ran violently
into an adjacent ditch. By this prompt action he
saved the lives of (1) a horse, (2) a cart, (3) an
inhabitant of Yass. On the other hand he ruined
the motor-car and hurt himself badly. The only
comforting feature was that the injured vehicle
was, to use the artless words of a daily paper,
“ the property of Mr. Harry Osborne, of Curran-
dooley, who was not of the party.” If cars
have to smash that Yassites and their live-stock
may live, it is better that the lethal engines
should belong to others.
The Monaro moke in coach or cart cannot get
used to the motor, but tries to climb the nearest
fence at first sight of the car’s blunt nose.
Motorists usually humor the animals in the
kindliest fashion. A few weeks ago, when Miss
Eadith Walker was doing the run to and from the
top of Kosciusko in her car, divers vehicles whose
steeds at once looked around for means of com-
mitting suicide were met. The car always did a
caterpillar crawl past, and the inhabitants of the
vehicles said it was very sweet of her, and would
be counted unto her for righteousness.
Miss Lorna Ussher (no relative of the local
musical family whose name sounds the same, but
has one less “s” in it), a dramatic soprano, with an
alternative gift on the violin, departs for Germany
next month to have both gifts polished. She has
been singing and fiddling these many moons under
the tuition of Mrs. Eileen O’Moore (Bessie Doyle
as was); but before she goes to the Land of the
Fierce Imperial Moustache and the Watch on the
Rhine she will give a concert at the Y.M.C.A.
March 10 is the date fixed, and if you forget it
the loss (of culture) will be yours.
The committee of the Ella Caspers Fund hereby
entreats the N.S.W. public not to be absent-
minded beggars over their donations to this cause,
but to pay either to Dr. Stewart Mackay or Mr.
H. N. Southwell at Paling’s. Ella and her beauti-
ful contralto must be saved from the woes of
London ; and £2OO is required, and not half that
sum is yet to hand. The sub. list must close on
March 15, for the girl has to leave by the Bremen
on the 20th, so as to arrive in time to catch the
scholarship of which she is in pursuit. Day before
her departure she will give a concert, and sub-
scribers to her fund will be invited to the melody-
making.
Andrew Black in these honeycomb days turns
out like an advt. for the Tailor and Cotter
fashion plates. His distinguished name is now
over the portals of Pfahlert’s hostel (in very small
letters), but that’s no proof that he will dispense
Black and White from behind the barricade.
Sydney is to be his radiating musical centre, and
he and Mrs. Slapoffski will take the principal
parts in the Slaps’ big operatic venture in May,
when “Aida” and “Lucia” will be produced at
the Town Hall. A chorus of 200 picked voices
will aid and abet the principals.
Miss Gladys Ure, the comely little Australian
stage girl who has been for some time watching
America at work, is reported as engaged to be
married to an Italian Count. Well, so long as he’s
not a waiter or a barber ! Or even if he follows
one of those quite honorable callings and is in
constant employment.
Mr. Walter Buller, eldest son of the late
scientist, Walter Buller, who has been living in
the older, colder world for long years, is to wed a
Miss Ridley, a niece of Sir Arthur Bigge, one of
the Equerries to the Prince of Wales. Don’t
know what an equerry’s duties are, but it sounds
as if Miss Ridley’s uncle would carry the family
on amongst Persons of Consequence.
The A. W. Tooths, of Bowral, give a daughter
into the keeping of Solicitor Charles Rundle on
March 21st—a Lenten wedding. Bride-elect is
acquiring something uncommon in the way of
millinery and frockery. Mrs. J. T. Browne, who
was a Gaden girl and resembles Queen Alexandra,
is giving advice and moral support. As a recent
returner from Fashion’s capitals she is extra-well
qualified.
That dearly-beloved of the Commonwealth,
Mr. H. H. Share, is evidently not coming back to
us, as we had hoped, to aid and adorn the Dudley
staff. He has accepted some paymastering job
in London.
Heard on a ferry-boat:—
“Honorable Peter Murphy is in Sydney, staying with his
daughter at the Imperial.”
“ Who is the Honorable Murphy when he’s at home ? ”
“ He’s a big dog in Brisbane.”
An atom of information is often enhanced if you
give it in the informant’s own Doric.
The smiling suburb of Mosman has begun its
Lenten season in a most un-Lenten manner. Two
of its wedded Romeos have eloped with barmaids,
and one of its well-frocked matrons has disap-
peared with the tertium quid.
The following letter, written by one of the
wealthiest women in Australia, came in response
to an appeal for a subscription for a gifted young
student: “Dear Mrs. , Don’t think me nasty
because I do not send you a donation for .
I am really tired of subscribing for all sorts of
prodigies. It has become quite a burden nowa-
days, and it would only be someone in whom I
felt a personal interest that I would assist for the
future, and then not very willingly. My experi-
ence has been that they always forget the leaves
on which they fed as grubs, and become rather
irritating butterflies. Yours very sincerely,
Clearly, this commercial-minded
dame doesn’t cast her bread upon the waters with-
out a guarantee that it will come back cake.
The brave Baxter damsel, who seems to steer
the Austral Club in London, and keeps it off the
rocks, contrived to harpoon Melba for the club’s
reception to Lady Northcote. It was Melba s
only night in London between her arrival from
America and her departure Us-ward. No wonder
she was described as looking tired. Her valuable
if wearied person was clothed in a sheath gown of
cloth-of-gold tissue, very decollete, and sunning
over with diamonds. Miss Hopwood Foldi, of
Sydney, who added her musical monologue to the
programme, is specially and praisefully men-
tioned.
A gentleman named Wallace (H. F. are his
prefix letters) has written a book, “Stalks
Abroad,” being an account of his sport gotten in
a two years’ tour of the world. Of Maoriland, he
says : “The magnificent red deer-heads, once the
envy of deer-stalkers the world over, are now few
and far between, and this not owing to the
decrease of the deer, but rather because they are
becoming too numerous, and the stags are dete-
riorating in the size and symmetry of their
antlers, owing to the shooting of the finest ex-
amples and the consequent propagation of the
species through inferior animals.” Commenting
sympathetically on this, the great Saturday
Review adds—“ The introduction of wolves into
the country, which would rapidly weed out all the
old and weakly animals, would probably do a
great deal of good to the race, but such a measure
might not meet with the approbation of sheep-
farmers.”
Someone had better put it before the sheep
farmers, who have to battle against foxes,
rabbits, native dogs and sparrows “A Bdl
for the Introduction of Wolves into the
Dominion ” ought to liven up next Parlia-
mentary session considerably. The Monaro
people made short work of the herd or so of buffa-
loes introduced into their district. I saw a bufflock
(that’s a good word for a cross between a buff, and
a bullock) in a team of working cattle. He lq ke l
humpy and patient, and you wouldn’t know if you
weren’t told that his ma was just plain cow.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
GEM SET GOLD FLEXIBLE BRACELETS.
A LARCE STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
£4 to £5O.
FINE GOLD FLEXIBLE BRACELET, SET WITH CORALS,
£B/15/- IN CASE.
FINE GOLD FLEXIBLE BRACELET, SET WITH PEARLS
AND TURQUOISE, £6/10/- IN CASE.
SELECTIONS SENT ON APPROVAL IF DESIRED;
LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
LANDED
Pjlm#
Son
Palmer
F.J
palmer
-*< oor>
Son
SAFELY
and we are now busy opening them up.
NEW
Autumn Fabrics
lor Our Celebrated
Suits to Measure at 505., 655., 705., 755.
These are exceptionally choice materials, in the very latest designs, and must
be seen and felt to be fully appreciated.
Tf you cannot call, we’ll send you a box of patterns, with Tape and Simple
Self-Measure Form, on receipt of this coupon.
“ Bulletin,” 4/3/’O9.
Ilease post Free Patterns, etc., to
Name
Address
All garments made throughout on our own premises by a staff of experts.
FIT AND FINISH FAULTLESS.
Write to=day, and be glad to-morrow.
F. J. PALMER (Q. SON,
Unionists’ Tailors,
726 & 728 GEORGE
Street, Haymarket.
SYDNEY.
And corner of PITT
& PARK STREETS.
KENSINGTON.
The flodel Suburb, situated but twenty minutes from
the G.P.0., on a twopenny tram section.
Hi
Portion of a street in Kensington where building land is for sale at 50/- foot.
There is no land on the market to-day in a similar position, so close
to the city, or so beautifully situated, as is Kensington. The
streets there are broad, well made, and ballasted. Footpaths
asphalted, kerbed and guttered. Gas and water there, and
sewerage on the way. A three hundred pound building restriction
prevents the erection of anything undesirable, and keeps the
neighborhood a most select one.
PRICE 501- FOOT.
Terms: £2 down, £1 Month.
Plans and Free Illustrated Booklets of Kensington from
Realty Specialists and Managing Agents for Kensington—
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO. LTD.,
848 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
For That Tired Feeling
A famous comedian used to complain because there was
nothing to do between midnight and bedtime. If this man
had had an Edison Phonograph lie would have known what
to do between dinner-time and midnight, which is most
people’s bedtime.
In other words, the Edison Phonograph makes long
evenings short. It fills in hours that might otherwise lag
or be wasted, or even ill-spent.
It is a harmless, wholesome amusement, and one that
brings out the good qualities of sociability and enjoyment.
Hear one at some dealer’s near you. We will be glad to
forward an address to you where you can call, and also a
full list of machines and records.
Try the Edison Phonograph
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dkpt. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


BffCulM
rpEOOGNISED the world
r\ quisite quality, Carlson Currier Silks
may be bought from the leading Drapery Houses
in the Commonwealth. Every color gradation
may be obtained from the palest to the deepest
tints. Send to us for a beautifully illustrated
book—FREE— mentioning the name of your
Draper when writing.
THE CARLSON CURRIER CO. (of San Francisco),
The Block. Collins Street. Melbourne. [l.
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
Distinctive
“ Directoire ” styles in
ROYAL
CORSETS.
Just ask to see them. See that your
Autumn and Winter Costume is fitted
over a ROYAL “P.D.” CORSET— the
Corset of Quality—yet it costs no more
than other makes. Made of fabric that
is chosen with care and discrimination —
so strong and subtle —so woven that
you cannot tear it. Every model is so
exquisitely moulded by celebrated
French Corsetierres that they impart
the new “Directoire” Figure, with
its charmingly graceful lines, flowing
hipless effect, ensuring the wearer
perfect freedom and comfort. There
are shapes for every conceivable type
of figure—from the slightest to the
stoutest. Those for the stout figure
reduce the abdomen firmly, yet
gradually and gently. “ P. 0.” CORSETS
are lighter yet stronger, and'will
outlast any other make. See that
Trade Mark is on every pair—none
genuine without it— it is our guarantee
of thorough satisfaction and service.
Insist on
Royal “P.D.” Corsets.
Ail Drapers and Storekeepers.
TRADE
PD
P. D
MARK.
E 7
1?
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going hand in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture cf the most desirable Motor Tyres—and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,” and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 1, 1909.
Mr Dear Yarrik,—
Leaden sky and drizzling rain in the morning
spoilt Newmarket Day from a dressing point ot
view. New autumn frocks were sadly put back in
their boxes, and the serviceable tailor-made was
rescued from the rear of the wardrobe. those
who had furs and wore them lived to regret it ;
for about 2 o’clock the sun burst into all the heat
of a respectably-behaved February afternoon, and
gave winter-clad society a fine opportunity for a
growl at the femininity of Melbourne’s climate.
The really-truly Directoire dress was not numer-
ous, Mrs. Henry Cornish being the most observed
exponent of the art of wriggling. 1 hough the grass
and the paths be wet, the really-truly skirt must
be skin tight, and the arms must be practically
unmovable, so the little pointy tail just has to
twist and draggle through the dirt and rain at its
own sweet will* Mrs. J?hillip iiussell and Mrs.
Manifold faced the uncertain weather sanely in
coats and skirts ; also the lately-returned Miss lo
Baillieu hid her figure in a much-braided navy
blue coat and skirt, whilst one just caught a
(dimpse of her wonderful hair beneath her heavy
velvet headgear. The star dresser of the
day was Miss Ivy Clarke, in a mole cloth costume,
of which one could see neither beginning nor ending
nor any waist-belt —just a straight-hanging gai-
ment falling gracefully over her slim figure, and
unlike the old princess robe in that it did not
seem to fit tightly anywhere, though every curve
stood out exquisitely. Also, it had a pocket, a
wide three-cornered thing, about the level or the
knee. London calls them alms-bags.
The new Mrs. Knox struck an ordinary note in
a tweed coat and skirt, whilst Mrs. Harvey Pat-
terson wandered round in true wet-weather garb.
Mrs. Richards filled a well-cut amethyst shan-
tung, and Mrs. Parker’s frock of the same tone
was almost covered by a beautiful set of black
fox. The day brought forth some exquisite furs,
including Mrs. Ullathorne’s ermine-lined sable
and Mrs. Willie Finlay’s smartly-cut sealskin coat
and Russian sables.
The most pathetic figure on the course was a
blind man—a one-time sport, who had come just
to listen to the tense, nervous silence, and then
the hoarse roaring that is meat and drink to the
true race-lover. But so pitiful and helpless he
looked in the big, careless crowd ! Over on the
Flat one bookmaker attracted a crowd, some of
whom came to bet, and some to stare. It was
said to be “Bill” Marion Edwards, strenuously
following the “ two-to-one-bar-one ” calling.
Consul and Mrs. Maistre departed to their
beloved Frogland on Thursday by the "V ille-de-la
Ciotat. Crowds of friends braved the damp to
say “Au revoir” and “Bon voyage,” andjnake
other French remarks. A “soiree adieu ” had
been given a day or two before—a blaze of
tri-colored ribbon and scarlet poppies, with a halo
of joy-juice. The rotund and cheerful Napoleon
Boft'ard and others sang sweet ditties, and the
Zingari Orchestra filled up all the spaces with
good stuff. There were also two well-acted play-
lets ; but most of the English guests had forgotten
to bring their “First Aid to Wrestlers with
Foreign Tongues” with them. Dainty hand-
painted programmes, presented to the adieu’d,
were the work of clever Baroness Hedenstrom,
wife of the Russian Consul.
There was a recent outburst of marriages and
other frivols, hurried up to get in before Lent
banged the door. Tuesday—Shrove Tuesday—
was the beginning of the purple-dress period
of the dame whose pose is to do the “correct
thing” or die in the attempt. “ Postponed wed-'
dings are unlucky,” said a well-known Toorak
matchmaker, the other day ; and so her daughter
was hurriedly tied to middle-aged Moneybags on
the eve of a trip to London, where the honeymoon
will be only part honey and the rest prosaic busi-
ness. Still the knot is securely tied, and match-
making mamma sits back and enjoys Lent
serenely. Thus even Lent has its compensations
—it hustles things on. And the man who is
hustled is generally lost—or, rather, won.
The Evans-Binnie knot-tying, which happened
at St. Stephen’s, Elsternwiek, on the 23rd, was
artistically Directoire, even to the long sticks and
the crumpled, incroyuble head-dress of the two
bridesmaids, who might have posed for Day and
Night. Being a Church ceremony, “evening
dress and hats ’’was the order of the night, for it
seems Hod does not like ladies with their
hats off, so the Continental fashion was adopted.
Strenuous Jack Dunlop “best-manned” the affair.
The little matron is to take up house or flat-
keeping in Sydney for a while, as most of hubby’s
interests are in the Ma State; but how such
a small person will manage the difficult domestic
and the recalcitrant butcher is a problem.
Postmaster-General Thomas has conferred the
distinction of Postmistress-General upon Miss
Ingleby, an Adelaide lady. The knot-tying was
done very quietly on a recent day at the Stow
Memorial Church, in Adelaide. Mr. and Mrs.
“P.M.G.” Thomas are to wander round awhile
before coming to an anchorage in Melbourne.
The new Postmistress-General will have a couple
of school-going bairns to mother, the P.M.G.’s
children by a former marriage.
The “Royston” Luxtons are to give their fair
daughter into the safe keeping of D. S. Sullivan,
at St. George’s Church, Malvern, on March 16.
The “party” afterwards is to be joyful at Royston,
and all Caulfield is agog.
News comes that the Great White Fleet has
arrived home safely so far as the big ships are
concerned, for they have no hearts to lose or
mislay. Much has happened since they left home
and Uncle in December. And much is still hap-
pening. One of a brace of pretty Melbourne
sisters left for the Star-Spangled land a week or
two ago. She is to be the guest of “his”
mother in “Little Old Noo Yark. ble
is something big in the Navy, and wears
much gold braid. “Popper” owns lots
of real gold, which fact trims the story with even
more glitter. The maiden’s brown eyes wrought
great havoc during the first round, which took;
place at a Sydney function, when she was the
guest of some moneyed Mosmans. In the second
(and last) round, in Melbourne, she had him
on his knees, knocked clean out. Mother
chaperones the maiden, to see that the Lag e
doesn’t scratch ; and, after a family conference
with the “other side,” an engagement (already
fixed up by the most interested parties) may be
officially announced.
“Willy” Knox, of the Hat and the House of
Kepresentatives, makes slow progress back to
health. He has been sick-a-bed in Surgeon
O’Hara’s Collins-street hospital for some weeks
past. He was not able to be at the tymg-up cere-
mony when his son swore to battle for a crust for
the many-dollared Kathleen Macpherson. lvnox,
jun., and the pretty girl who is to share the crust
are back from a sip of the honeytnne at Heales-
vilie, and they stand up bravely to the congratu-
lations of a crowd of friends at Menzies two
afternoons of this week. Then tney set sail for
Europe to finish the honeymoon that they had the
sip of at Healesville.
March 2,5, and 8 are the dates fixed for the polo
matches for the Talbot Cup Tournament, and the
western Johnnies have been getting themselves and
their ponies into form. The Camperdown team,
which pulled off the prize last year, is up
and ready for all comers. Caramut, Geelong, v*or-
garee, Colac and Melbourne make up a good host
for the tussle, which is bound to be watched by
all the very tallest poppies in sassiety’s garden.
The slippery little urchins who manage to keep
Melbourne city streets as clean as dust and tar will
let them, insurrected the other day, and, storming
the Town Hall, demanded more pay to compen-
sate them for the joy of getting run over by
motor-cars all day long. But the rocket was put
on crooked, and it came down with a fizzle. Ihe
little chaps were, however, tremendously earnest
while the fireworks lasted. “ W hat would yer do
with yer Hempire dress a-trailin’ along the street
without us?” asked one atom, midway m his
’teens. The next day the midget was at work.
“I’m getting eighteen bob a week,” he explained,
“ and it’s good enough. I ain’t married, ’he
hastily added, in extenuation of his backsliding.
The Norman Bayles are busy packing their suit
case and their “Merry Widow” hat-box (a new
invention to fit the present need) for a jolly jaunt
abroad. The haughty member for Toorak bade
his supporters and such-like friends “take a glass
with him at the Malvern Town Hall on Friday
night—and they took.
Our energetic medicine lady, and clever sur-
geon to boot, Helen Sexton, has knocked under
with an overdose of work, and goes off to spend
the merry month of May in the Cold Land that
warms up for a few hours about that time, where-
upon in their astonishment the horses in the street
have a habit of dropping down dead. Dr.
Helen is one of the “personalities” about the
city, and under a business-like brusqueness hides
plenty of hall-marked 19-carat kindness. There
is no fuss about Dr. Helen; women-patients get
the plain ungarnished truth, but always mixed
with the old-fashioned herb called Love.
The deserted, linen-draped Princess’s is slowly
coming back to life, and lights up o’ night now for
the busy “Sweet Lavenders,” who are rehearsing
for their show on March 6, in aid of the Women’s
Hospital. The Mayoress and a pushful host have
taken the thing up, and success has already
pushed his curls over the horizon.
There is evidently more profit in rags than in
being Gent. One. Mr. Bates, of the gilded firm of
Gillott, Bates,-and Moir, the other day forsook
the quest of the fickle 6s. Bd. to settle down at
a house in “the Lane.” He is matrimonially
connected with the large importery, which no
doubt explains why in his case fees are swapped
for fluff.
In Melbourne on Saturday I met what ought to
be Australia’s most celebrated citizeness. She
was dressed ordinarily, save for her hat,
which was shaped like a railway porters
cap with the brim missing; it was made
of scarlet velvet, and adorned with mother-of-
pearl ornaments, while stuck athwart the millinery
was a sizeable card, bearing the words, “ The only
true Australian poetess, •” Like the
fabled prophet, has little honor in her own
country, but, at any rate, she is doing what she
can to turn Australia’s head her way by nailing
her colors to the mast, so to speak.
Previous to the unexciting ceremony of the
opening of the nurses’ new quarters at the
Alfred Hospital the other day, the State Ex-
cellency was conducted around the wards by Mr.
Fairbairn. A vice-regal tour of inspection at a
hospital always reminds one of reception day at
a boarding-school, when everything in the dormi-
tories looks lovely. A visit that Lady Brassey of
yore paid to the Alfred has been immortalised by
Mr. Freddy Norton, the invalid with the funny
stories and the perennial bridal bouquet in his
buttonhole. Freddy being unusually sick and
coughsome, his friends pushed him into one of the
paying wards at the Alfred, making him promise
that he wouldn’t escape until he felt better. As
a matter of fact, he never did feel much better
whilst he was keeping his parole, for the
discipline didn’t suit the wild old bird’s
complaint; but he stayed , a-bed for three
weeks and laid in a new store of anecdotes.
One of Freddy’s yarns dealt with the occasion of
Lady Brassey’s visit. As he lay on his back one
afternoon, trying to digest his medicine, one of
the ministering angels rushed into the ward and
bustled from bed to bed, smoothing the counter-
panes and pillows, and sweeping all untidiness
before her. “Lady Brassey’s coming through,
and we want everything to look nice,” said the
breathless nurse, when Freddy cried, “Tell me
what is happening. Let me know the worst!”
Then she put some finishing pats to his pillow,
and said, “Sssh ! her Ladyship is coming.”
Whereupon Freddy shrieked, ‘ ‘ Don’t let her come
yet. She mustn’t see me. I don’t look nice—l’m
most unsightly. For Heaven’s sake, hold her
Ladyship in check whilst I crawl under the bed.”
At that moment the Excellency arrived. With a
gurgle of despair, Freddy fell back on the pillow
and pretended to breathe his last. That’s the
story as he tells it.
Elwood, the new suburb which sprang into
mushroom growth along the track of the Brighton
electric tram, has become a nest of doves. It is
the home of the newly-married. Edwy and
Angelina rush the recently erected 4xB boxes,
with ornate pickings on their glaring red brick
fronts and electric light pretences or allegations
in their small interiors. In the natural, course of
r-ause and effect the whole stretch has been
in deadly terror of the rovl ,"f tt
who pants for the dozen butter-dishes
and the wedding fish-forks. Much of the
burgling of the brand-new booty has been done m
davligbt, while Edwy was glued to a , city desk
and Angelina was spending woeful hours in
registry office tracking the elusive Biddy-nqt
Chickabiddy. Angelina, deserted by
previous Jemima, remembers the effect o
that last self-made pie on Edwy and
rushes off to interview (or be interviewed by)
still more terrifying ladies of the Biddy P
suasion. In her rush after Biddy she leaves the
new rustic window “ snecked widi its ineffectual
lock. The other night some ruffians invaded a
particularly well-plated honeymoon cot while
Miranda was at home with Bridget in the kitchen
and Horace back at work “ balancing. Iho in-
vaders carefully disconnected the lighting wires
and had the house in horrific darkness at the
mercy of their bull’s-eye lanterns, they locked
missus in her room, and Ann Bridget avows that
she was covered by a pistol while the masked
marauders scooped the whole shining pool of
presents —even the new house-linen and every-
thing liquid that Horace had in store. Ann
Bridget and her box left next morning with the
niysteriousness that surrounds these strange,
Heaven-sent visitants.
The sleeping-out craze is having a sane effect on
house architecture. People are building their new
domiciles with balconies and verandahs from 121 t.
to 20ft. in width, and so they revert to the ways ot
theearlystationbungalow. Eoryearsthesuburban
and city balcony has been merely a narrow ledge
with much ornamental but useless trimming.
“Sleeping out” has taken the suburbanites by
the neck or the ankle and hauled them through
their narrow doorways into the Lord s fresh air.
It is not merely a case of summer-camping
along siirf-side “resorts.” Even in correct and
rigid Hawthorn and neighboring suburbs, where
dwell the bank clerk and the softgoods emporium
individual—even in those decorous villages the
carefully-mown lawn, which is the size of eighteen-
pence, is invaded by tents. Along the river
the hammock swings by the dozen, and the mos-
quito invites his friends to lunch on the occupant.
There is even a boat-house, with the small rowing
boat turned into a girl’s bed, and tricks of mirror
and trunk are glimpsed through the open door.
Soon the population will be taking to the trees
like Monkeylanders. There will be a snug cot-
tage in the branches with a telephone on the trunk
and a garage at the foot. A year or two ago a harm-
less old tree-dweller was discovered in the South
Yarra Domain. She roosted on the forked
branches of a blue-gum, and was said to eat grass
and fir cones and things between her dreamless
sleeps. But the police cut short the aged female s
Arcadian career by “ running her in.”
Herewith are some regrets to Mr. Norman
Carter for stating a week or so back that he in-
tended to quit the portrait-painting of Sydney s
old nobility to come south and join the Melbourne
School of Art. Neither is Tom of that ilk leaving
his peaceful studio to wrestle with the X oung
Idea, who usually comes to the artist to be
“finished,” after having strayed for a year or so
in the paths of “Painting taught on the most
modern lines ; Is. ah hour, or three hours tor
2s. 6d.” The third member of the combined
caravanserai and art school is Will Longstaff,
cousin of “ big ” Longstaff, and as he has returned
with a number of “ old master ’ copies, the bun-
ding genius will be saved a 16,000-mile trip when
ambition runs to the production of a picture after—
usually a long way after—the dead geniuses of the
Louvre.
Erom “ Rosna ” in Adelaide :
Governor-General Dudley has promoted yet another
cricket match, the victims this time being old boys ot St.
Peter’s College, and the sacrifice was offered up on the
picturesque school grounds. In a spare moment he and
Lady Dudley also descended on the Methodist College,
spoke prettily to the nice pig-tailed damsels of that pros-,
perous institution, and (more to the point) gained a holi-
dal bush' fire called at Marble Hill the other day, and
did its best to go up to the front door and ask for his Lx.
It had just got through the gates, and was running across
the lawn, pursued by the local population, when Lord
Dudley came forth, and gently but firmly persuaded it to
desist from burning him out of house and hill. But it
took some persuading; the argument started at 8 p.m.,
and he and the vice-regal staff had to take off' their coats
and continue the discussion for several hours. Taking it
all round, we’re giving their Exes, plenty of excitement
in South Aus. We even threatened them with a genuine
old Australian water famine the other day. It seems
that the G.-G. has been in the habit of having his wash-
basin more than half-full, and the Marble Hill supply
wouldn’t stand such extravagance. However,_the Govern-
ment sent up a billy-full, and the situation is saved for
the present. „ ,
Chief Justice Samuel Way-Lieut.-Governor also—came
forth on Saturday afternoon and opened Artist Will
Ashton’s Exhibition with a speech The crowd that
viewed the proceeding was large and rather frilly', and it
the exhibition does not have an attack of red spots before
you hear from me again you’ll know that that crowd was
a hypocrite. The show is being held in the Society of
Arts’Gallery, a fine room with the best lighting to be
had, and the 101 canvases make a goodly show. Among
the exhibits are several Academy and Salon pictures (in-
cluding “The Wreck,”'a fine bit of seascape with
champion lights in it); and the Wynne prize picture,
“Noon, Burnside.” Also there are dozens of exquisite
little N.S.W. sketches, and a Cornish winter scene—so
realistic that you can feel the icicles dropping down your
neck as you pass it. „ ~
Adelaide’s Mayoress, Mrs. Edwin Mayfield, gives a
young people’s dance at Glenelg on March 12, as a kind
of farewell to her son’s and her daughters’ chums, before
the Mayfields lay up their bathing clothes in seaweed and
scuttle'back to town for the winter. .
One way and another, Glenelg has had a festive time
this summer. At the new kiosk on the jetty there hat e
been euchre parties and supper frivols by the bakers
dozen, while “Pierrot parties” later on came into favor
with a rush. The Pierrots are still quite the thing. Just
at tiie moment a local song-maker’s ditties are being sung
by their baritone. The composer-damsel is the Speaker
Coles’ daughter Ruth.
Glenelg, now beyond its jetty, is to grow a breakwater
shortly ; and the Function attending the planting of the
seed will wear a very large capital F. The waterside
place has even had a wedding lately, the bride being
Bertha daughter of the Bichard Law Smiths, and the
benedict Charles Downer, one of the late H. E. Downer s
h °Mrs. J. E. Jones, a sister of. Dr. Fischer, of “Lirima,”
Fullarton gave a jolly At Home last week to some 50
or 60 <dr’ls. The garden, full of roses, human and
otherwise, looks out over the city and away to the blue
waters of the 'Gulf—a charming view. The particular
brain-stretching contest prepared for the undoing of the
o-uests was a verse to be written on Adelaide’s electric cars,
and much complimentary rhetoric was handed to the
Tramways Trust. Among the impromptu poets were two
Haynes maidens, some Everards, a Shannon damsel, Miss
Bird, several Delprat daughters, and a pretty Cleland
"' Adelaide’s Theatre Royal has suddenly grown a full-
fledged cafd and ladies’ lounge, just off the landing of the
dress-circle entrance. Now, in the intervals of _ When
London Creeps,” or “ The Ear at the Keyhole, sister
woman need not cling to her seat while brother man goes
to see a friend about a dog. She can go and see another
S 'Ther?s > a U that our little Lyric Club may
have to leave this mortal coil. In spite of an outward
and visible air of prosperity it has become several score
behind in the matter of hard cash, and a few weeks
ago donations were called for urgently among the mem-
bers. But apparently the thirst to contribute has not
been overwhelming, for a meeting has been called to
decide the club’s fate. It will be a pity if it goes
under, for the quarters are a haven of quiet and com-
fort for the frenzied shopper.
S Aus., which runs more to comfortable homes than to
mansions, has lost by fire almost the only place that
called itself a castle. Built by the late Alexander Hay, it
stood on the hill behind Victor Harbor, and looked across
to the Murray mouth. A plumber set himself and the
roof on fire, and the rest was quick work. Bv a surpris-
ing athletic feat the billiard-table was got out, also a Noel
Paton picture ; but a lot of valuable statuary was ruined.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


As a Woman treateth her Complexion so if is.
The Advice of a well-known Stage Beauty.
THIS is the story of a girl from Bendigo. She had ambition, talent, and beauty. Wider horizons lured her on.
It is only a very short while since she joined London’s multitudinous ranks of the aspiring, but already this
statuesque Bendigo girl, Miss Alice Crawford, thanks not only to her charming personality, which makes her
a splendid subject for the artist’s fancy, hut in a greater measure also to the thorough sincerity and earnest-
ness of her work, has been winning increasing fame with each passing theatrical season in England. As, by
her admirable and successful acting in the part of Glory Quayle, in The Christian, then with Mr. Terry in
“Matt of Merrymount,” and now with Mr. Forbes-Kobertson in the exquisitely and artistically sensational
play, “The Passing of the Third Floor Back,” she has gained plaudits and undeniable appreciation, so
she now bids fair to gain the thanks and gratitude of many English and Australian women for having pointed out to
them the infallible means for the preservation of Complexion Beauty. In a letter, reproduced on this page, she says
of Valaze, Dr. Lykuski’s Russian Skin Food and Beautifier, which I have introduced to England :
“ Valaze has done my skin, such a lot of good. No one
knows better than yourself how much an actress’s com-
plexion must suffer through the exacting requirement B
of her calling. Your Russian Skin Food, Valaze, does
precisely what the skin requires—it preserves its tone,
whiteness, and clearness as no other preparation has
done.”
Miss Crawford then continues
“When I have said that, I have only vaguely hinted at
the true pleasure, satisfaction, and benefit which I derive
from it. All actresses should use Valaze.”
These words, coming from an actress blessed with such
charm as is Miss Crawford’s happy possession, are well
worth pondering, because there are none quicker to realise
than stage-folk that, while talent is a great thing, mental
equipment and true artistic temperament most valuable
possessions, physical attractiveness frequently finds them
wanting when weighed with them in the balance. None
quicker to realise also that Nature never intended any
woman to be ineffective or uncomely—nor the man
either, for the matter of that ; and that, although it is
good policy to be as beautiful as you can, it is by far the
better policy to be more beautiful than you are.
To Command success, you must look it.
Miss Crawford’s letter is of further interest, because it
illustrates so well the satisfaction one feels when one has
obtained the best in any one thing. It is like standing on
the highest mountain peak. There is nothing higher to
look up to. Valaze is indeed the apex in complexion re-
quisites.
The reason is because Valaze acts on the skin, seeking
out the deepest layers,- the deepest, tissues,, the deepest
cells, and there works, like Nature works, thoroughly and
surely, for skin health, purity, color, freshness, for skin
beauty in every sense.
The skin that feeds on Valaze can bear the brunt of all
climate conditions, of all moods of weather, of heat and
of cold, of atmosphere dry and damp.
The Valaze complexion knows no speck or freckle, as
the Valaze skin know's no line or crowsfoot.
Valaze-nourished tissues are never depressed.
A Valaze face never looks tired.
Valaze contains the essence of a beautiful star-shaped
flower-herb, w'hich grows only in the Carpathian Moun-
tains, and it is due to the unremitting labor of the
Russian Science Specialist, Dr. Lykuski, that its invalu-
able properties.have become known to the world. The
price of Valaze is 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
But Miss Alice Crawford is only one of many beautiful
and famous women who sing the praises of the Valaze
preparations. And of these is Miss Ethel Irving, whose
versatility and piquant cleverness when she was singing in
only musical comedy raised her performance so
far above the level that it was no surprise to her
admirers that she should later stand revealed as an
actress of the most brilliant and consummate gifts,
who writes: “I have used the Valaze prepara-
tions for about six weeks, and think them perfectly
wonderful for the skin.” Then Miss Ellaline Terriss,
than whom it would be difficult to find a more idolised
personality on the British stage, states : —“ I have tried
the Valaze Powder, and find it is delightful to use, while
the Valaze Skin Food is a most valuable preparation, and
I shall most certainly recommend it.” Great praise came
from Miss Lily Elsie, the brilliant and scintillating creator
of the name-part in “The Merry Widow,” who literally
burst upon the delighted public as a star of the brightest
magnitude. She wrote : —“ lam greatly pleased with the
Valaze, Soap, and Valaze Powder, The soap is the nicest
complexion soap I have used, and I find the powder excep-
tionally good as well.” Ag-ain, Miss Elizabeth Firth, Miss
Elsie’s splendid co-worker, the famous Natalie of “The
Merry Widow',” gives her opinion in these words : —“I
find the Valaze Skin Food a most valuable preparation.
The Valaze Pow'der, too, is quite the nicest I have yet
tried.” Miss Ruth Vincent, a noted belle of Britain,
Queen of the Savoy, she has been called, and surely the
sweetest of singers, now the bright particular star in “The
Belle of Brittany,” running at the Queen’s Theatre in
London, states that “ she has found the Valaze Skin
Food a very agreeable and valuable preparation, and can
strongly recommend it. The Valaze Powder, too, is
very refreshing, and the best I have ever used.”
Miss May De Souza, the charming Gaiety star, w'rote
concisely The Valaze Soap, in my opinion, is quite
the nicest Soap for the skin and the complexion that
I have ever used.” Miss Pauline Chase, whom the
London Sketch has so aptly characterised as “ The
girl who would not grow up,” and w'ho has not only
brqjjght all London to her feet, but created a perfect
furore in Paris, by her insinuating portrayal of Peter
Pan, says, with disarming candor“ I use Valaze, and
consider it very pleasant and very good.” The quint-
essence of praise, surely ! Miss Cissy Loftus, who now'
commands a salary of £5OO a week, and for w'hom
theatrical managers have only recently fought in Lon-
don’s law courts, wrote flatteringly I have found
the Valaze Skin Food Powder and Complexion Soap
most excellent,-and shall be glad to come to your rooms
shortly for more.” Miss Kate Cutler, who has just finished a brilliant season in “ Bellamy the Magnificent,” as lead
ing lady to Sir Charles Wyndham, wrote boldly “ Every woman should use Valaze to preserve her complexion.”
Dainty Marie Dainton, w'ho, whether as the magnet w'hich draws the Smart Set to the Palace or Pavilion, or as prima
donna in light opera, holds her ow'n in the heart of the public, writes “ I have found nothing better than Mile.
Rubinstein’s Valaze.” And there are letters contributing praise from that most beautiful of Marguerites, Miss Marie
Loehr, and from lanny Ward, Edna May, Marie Studholme, and many others.
My book, “ Beauty in the Making,” originally written in Russian, has been since translated and adapted for
circulation in England. It familiarises the reader with the Viennese School of Complexion Treatments, which have
t^LeU u
<U*V** 't£
<3 °
O^JL
<£&<*
4:
<r«t^
A^t
y
OIC^AMX^
7
MBorbes Robertson.
ST JAMCSS THEATRC
LONDON SV.
NU^v.
U^U»
wlp s^
a&i M'r'»*~ A ~~^
# OL £>v
'
F A '~
JHfi '~’ c *
w^.*.
&*&*"*• °J'-~~
■J}~rt wT ' <
MISS ALICE CRAWFORD.
revolutionised the Cult of Beauty the world over, and has been flatteringly reviewed by every English journal of
prominence. It has been written with the principal object in mind, to make the care of the complexion a pleasant
and easy task, an intelligent, practical occupation, in the privacy of your own home. In “ Beauty in the Making ” I
have taken up every point that has any bearing on the topic of facial beauty, and I have embodied in it suggestions
and object lessons that will not only save you money and time, but, above all, your complexion. The treatise is
fully indexed, and contains, amongst other things, discussions under the following titles The Skin : Normal and
Abnormal—The Skin’s Lustre—Freckles, Tan, and Sunburn—To Wash or Not to Wash the Face—Soap : Its Use and
Abuse—Blackheads—Cosmetics and Their Use—Wrinkles—Face Massage—The Care of the Hair—Superfluous Hairs
—Bed Noses and Flushed Faces—Flesh Reducing, etc.
I want every woman in the British Empire to have a copy of “ Beauty in the Making.” Just write to me for it,
mentioning The Bulletin, and you will receive a free copy by return of post.
“ Beauty in the Making ” furnishes the details of other
complexion preparations, which I have brought with me
from my home-town, Vienna, and from Russia. These
are all intended for home treatment, and serve for every
imaginable requirement of the complexion. The credit
for the production of these satellites of Valaze is due to
such keen scientists as Drs. Paschkis, Unna, Schleich,
Liebreich, and others, and in the majority of cases they
are prepared under the direct supervision of their
originators.
These specialties have been tested under every clime.
I have studied their action on the skin in the tropical
heat of Australasia and India, in the moderate zones of
Central Europe, in the cold latitudes of Canada and
St. Petersburg, and under the uncertain and variable
conditions of England.
The names and prices of some of them are : NOVENA
POUDRE, a “fat” powder, for dry and normal skins.
This powder is the only preparation of its kind known
which is a skin food as well ; 25., 3s. and ss. a box.
VALAZE HERBAL POWDER, for greasy skins, 25., 3s.
and ss. a box. I have been the first of complexion
specialists to differentiate between the dry, over-moist,
or oily and normal skin when advising the use of face
powders. This accounts for my supplying two totally
distinct varieties—the Novena Poudre, a “ fat ” powder,
for dry and normal skins, and the Valaze Powder for
greasy skins. To dust a fat powder over a greasy skin
would be adding fuel to fire, while putting an absorbent
powder on a dry skin would be love’s labor lost, because
it would not only be difficult to make it adhere to the
skin, but it would also tend to aggravate the dryness.
So let me repeat, Novena Poudre, for dry and normal
skins, and the Valaze Powder, for greasy and over-moist
skins. VALAZE COMPLEXION SOAP, made of rare
herbs and almonds, pure, wholesome, economical, lasts
for several months ; 2s. a cake. Dr. Lylcuski’s Valaze
BLACKHEAD AND OPEN PORE CURE banishes every
trace of these disfigurements, and is an unfailing speci-
alty for coarse and greasy skins. It closes unduly open
pores and refines the skin texture ; 2s. 10d., posted, a
jar. A preparation which, in the words of a grateful
London client, well known for her beauty, “ brings the
fires of youth back to the face,” is the VALAZE
LIQUIDINE. It is a new product, that nowhere works
such splendid results as in hot countries. It dispels
undue redness of nose and face, and prevents blackheads
and pimples ; Bs. 6d. a bottle. VALAZE LIP LUSTRE,
for dull, blanched lips. Biting and wetting will not dis-
place the coloring it imparts ; 3s. and 2s. 6d.
VALAZE SPECIALE is one of my newest preparations
and most alluring. The speed with which it is absorbed
by the skin, rubbing away quite dry, and the fact that it
is so different in substance from the generality of what is
known as “ face creams,” cannot fail to recommend it to.
all connoisseurs. Valaze Speciale is delicious in creamy
softness of effect, and valuable when summer tan and
freckles are unfortunately persistent on fair noses. It is
an absolutely non-greasy, dry variant of the wonderful
skin-food Valaze, for day and outdooruse. When applied,
it leaves the skin without the slightest trace of oiliness or
shine, but presents a lovely surface of a dull, refined
finish. It does the same work in daytime that Valaze
Skin Food produces at night. It is delightfully smooth,
easily worked, of a texture light, airy, foamy. Price
2s. fid. and 3s. 6d. a jar, postage fid.
VALAZE SNOW LOTION is from the special prescrip-
tion of one of the best-known professors at the University
of Vienna, who, at the command of the Austrian Govern-
ment, has just completed an extensive tour of the tropical
countries of the world. Than himself it would lie difficult
to name a greater authority on the requirements of the
skin in tropical and semi-tropical latitudes. Valaze Snow
Lotion is a liquid powder of rare distinction, and
it will not be surprising that such a toilet requisite
should be from the prescription of such a scien-
tific man, when it will be remembered that
the Cult of Beauty is a subject of study, and part of
the curriculum of the University of Vienna. The view' of
the authorities at that seat of learning is that there is no
reason why more zeal and anxious care should be devoted
to the cult of a beautiful Rower, a lily, an orchid, a car-
nation, than to the beauty of women. And so nothing is
too trifling to command attention where woman’s beauty
is concerned. Only the woman who has struggled in
vain to subdue a shiny, oily skin will realise the full mean-
ing of the fact that Valaze Snow Lotion not only refreshes,
cools, and whitens the skin in the hottest weather, but
also enables it to retain that dull ivory finish which adds
so much charm and interest to the face of the initiated
Continental Belles. I had this specialty in London
before I sent it out to Australasia, and some Australian
ladies, who called on me there, and provided themselves
with Valaze Snow Lotion for their return journey to
Australia, were so delighted with it that they sent for it
again and again to me in London. This specialty is for
day and night use, and creates the delightful effect
spoken of on the face, neck, arms, and shoulders. The
distinctly whitening result it produces makes it particu-
larly indispensable to those who wear a decollete corsage. It is supplied in three shades—pink, white, and
cream. Price, 3s. 6d. ; 6d. postage.
“ Beauty in the Making” describes also the w'ork I am doing at my various institutes, Melbourne, Sydney,
Wellington, and London W., where are practised every mode of complexion treatments and correctives
known to modern science.
In equipping my establishments I have been guided by the cardinal thought that, however neglected may
be the complexion, hov'ever ill-used the skin, there should be means, as there is the qualification, to bring
relief and work improvement.
To ensure the promptest attention, all orders, requests for information, and applications for appointment, or for “ Beauty
in the Making,” should be addressed to my Dept., 20, Valaze Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins Street,
Melbourne; 9 Brandon Street, Wellington, N.Z. HELENA RUBINSTEIN.


Walter Bradley & Go.
324 George Street, Sydney,
HaVe for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawing's.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per llalj -dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through Thk Lone Hand. Forecasting
a ‘‘peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Dyspetics, and persons
with weak stomachs need
a tonic that has no laxative
action.
The tendency of opening
medicine is to further
weaken the organs.
Now Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills are a tonic without
any laxative action what-
ever. Their mission is to
! make strength. They tone
the stomach, giving health
energy and ambition.
This Sydney Case proves their value.
“Indigestion came on me suddenly,” said Mrs.
John Wilson, 20 Milford Street, Sydney. “I
was attacked about two years ago and suffered off
and on till about a month back. I found my
appetite gone, and when I did eat a little I could
not keep it down, and I’d have such fits of retch-
ing directly after, and when I did keep anything
down it lay on my chest just like an icy cold
stone. A burning hot feeling would go through
from my chest to my shoulders. I often slept
badly, and I always woke up with a nasty taste in
my mouth. As to heartburn, I was always subject
to it. I’d feel quite depressed in spirits. I knocked
off taking tea and potatoes, but all my dieting did
no good. Then a lady friend told me how much
good Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills did her, and per-
suaded me to try them. When half way through
the second box I felt better. By the time I had
started the third box my appetite was not so vari-
able. I began to eat a good meal and those
dreadful chest pains yielded. I’d get up each
morning brighter and stronger, and the dizzy
turns got less and less till they went altogether.
My health is now very good.”
Dr. Williams’
PINK PILLS
2s. 9d. per box ; G boxes 15s 3d. at all chemists and
storekeepers, or from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co. of Australasia Ltd,, Sydney. *
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss —
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort,miade of
the best materials, aiS} gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. lluUler So.), SYDNEY.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE.
POLITCAL
POINTS
In 1908 S. Australia gained 8000 people
by immigration, more than half of them coining
from N.S.W., and it also gained nearly 6000 by
excess of births over deaths. Hence it reckons
that it can now place its total population at
400,000, even without counting in the paltry 3000
that pretend to occupy the Northern Territory.
The longer S. Australia has a Labor Premier, the
more attractions outsiders seem to
see in it, and the less need its own
people seem to iind for quitting.
A GLIMPSE INTO THE FUTURE.—
MURPHY’S MILK ACADEMY.
Dr. Ashburton Thompson states that the operations of
the Dairies Supervision Act has had the effect of greatly
improving conditions under which milk is produced.—
S. M. HERALD.
Touching the establishment of a Common-
wealth dockyard, there have been some thoroughly
Tory expressions of opinion in the Tory press the
whole six States over. The Fat papers have
scorned the proposal, but at the same time they
are prepared to say no more about it if their own
parish is chosen as the site of the yard. This is
how the dreadful Tasmanian Mail pipes:—
There has been some sort of hint as to Hobart l>ein<r
chosen as the site, and we trust that the Premier will not
lose the opportunity of urging the claims of this port.
We do not believe that such an enormous expenditure is
justified, but, if it is to be incurred, the best possible
place should be selected—and, for many reasons, Hobart
must stand among the first.
The Mail is Bill Wilks and the Freetrade push
over again: “ The thing’s a curse, but we want
all the curse that is going for our own constituents.”
George Reid was announced this week to
address a public meeting in Sydney on the two
important subjects of Immigration and Defence.
Ihe place of meeting was the vestibule of the
Sydney Town Hall. It used to be the Town Hall;
now it is the vestibule ; soon it will be the mat.
Yarrum ” meets his local member
Talkin';- the other week to our Federal member, he told
me that, out of the £4OO a year he used to receive, he
scarcely had tobacco money after meeting the many calls
upon him. Only the other Sunday I saw him hand out a
cheque for £2o—nearly two weeks’ pay—at the laying of
a church foundation-stone ; and, later, he showed me a
memo, book that said his yearly subscriptions to cricket,
football, golf, tennis, and swimming clubs, bazaars,
churches, hospitals, self-denial funds, and the like, not to
mention shouts, which have to be paid for, amounted to
£357 10s. 6d. And yet the people he and others assist,
are mostly the first to cry out about the “enormous
salaries” members are getting. They don’t believe in
payment of members at all, in fact. A member of Parlia-
ment seems to be legitimate prey for all sorts and condi-
tions of chronic cadgers, who want laying out with an axe.
G. Reid derides the proposed beginnings
of an Australian navy. “ Who will dare to stand
up against it ? Given Billy Hughes’s two de-
stroyers, Japan will sue for eternal peace.” Haw,
haw ! Greid recalls a languid bachelor swell
looking at the first tiny baby of his married friend.
Screwing down his monocle, he said: “Haw!
S’pose a f’l’r must have a fam’ly, dontcherknow,
but it seems a demned silly way to begin.”
It doesn’t take much nowadays, according
to Treasurer Twaddell’s yarn, to upset an Aus-
tralian State loan. When N.S.W. asked for
£1,500,000 last week and was offered £OOO,OOO,
Twaddell explained that somebody had mentioned
something about war in Europe, Montenegro
having said “Booh !” to Austria. What sort of
a chance, in that case, would the loan have had if
it had been Australia instead of Austria that had
had the disrespectful remark made to it ? Some
Governments put a few tens of millions into the
safe, in case of an accident of that sort. But the
far-seeing Twaddell knows better than that—he
puts away a few tens of millions in I O U’s, so
that he may have two enemies on hand at once
and nothing to meet either of them with.
Though ifc was only offered £600,000 when
it asked, the other day, for £1,500,000, New South
Wales simply must find about £13,000,000 during
the next four years, or be a defaulter. That ought
to be enough to make the Government put by
every penny it can honestly lay its fingers on in
case of accident; also it ought to be enough to
make the Government anxious to give Australian
credit a fillip through the consolidation of the
States’ debts. But, instead of strengthening the
credit of New South Wales, Wade and Waddell
cheerfully announce that they are going in for a
vigorous course of watering it down by floating as
many more new P.N.’s and I O U’s as they can
get anybody to accept.
A statement which looks true even if it
isn’t:—
One of the qualifications of a member of the Melbourne
and Metropolitan Board of Works is to be a good card-
player—poker preferred. No others need apply. The
Board has two villas at Wallaby Creek, built on the
watershed. These villas have each a good cellar, and when
members pay a visit of alleged inspection to the water-
shed—and mighty numerous these inspections are—they
inspect on something stronger than water. Hay-
seeds along the Whittlesea railroad are quite familiar
with the travelling up and down of one of the Vic-
torian State cars, with blinds up, and members at
their deliberations. They deliberate at a table, cards in
hand, money in front of them, cigars in their faces, and
whisky bottles handy. If the local water supply be
deficient, they presumably take their deliberations
*• neat.”
An Australian firm of leather-belting
manufacturers got a slight shock the other morn-
ing. As just about everybody in Aus-
tralia knows that their goods are Aus-
tralian-made, they didn’t trouble to
say so in their advts. ; wherefore the
agents for some American belting
sent along to say that “a number of
American manufacturers are anxious
to get into touch with Australasian
importers of leather belting,” and
would the Australian firm please take
up the business and push Uncle Sam’s
goods ? Now the Australian firm has
its best eye turned on to Uncle
Samuel’s boats, looking out for the
goods of those American manufac-
turers who are so anxious to unload
some of ' their stuff in Australia ; and
if the stuff arrives, and is able to
climb over the tariff wall, then it will
be up to Australia to add a brick or
two to the top.
Two months ago the unhappy
residents on the Yass Canberra area—
the site Wade puts forward as a
second Paradise for the Federal Capi-
tal, and Mahon urges as a minor Heaven—were
all more or less burnt out. Here are two cut-
tings (from the S. M. Hekald and Teleguaph
respectively) dated 25/2/’O9 :
Yass, Wednesday.—A portion of Yass was flooded this
afternoon. A storm passed over the town shortly after two
o’clock. Heavy rain set in, and one inch 16 points fell
in half-an-hour, flooding all the creeks. The water over-
flowed the culverts at the top of the town, and ran down
Cooma-street, and broke through the back of the Mechan-
ics’ Institute. It was 3ft. deep in the Bank of New South
Wales and the A.J.S. Bank yards, rushing through the
premises of the latter.
Guni>agai, Wednesday.—For many weeks past the
Mut rumbidgee has been in a highly-discolored condition,
the water being almost unfit for human consumption!
Since no rain has fallen for many weeks the condition of
the river cannot be due to freshets, especiallv as the
river is below summer level. Some of the tributaries are
in a perfectly clear condition. Hundreds of fish have
died as the result of the pollution.
Fire, Flood, Pollution—these are the “advant-
ages” Wade and Hughes and the Sydney D.T.
offer Australians at their proposed capital.
J. Bull’s Government Departments are
always delighted to beg for favors, but are rarely
prepared to grant them. Thus his Post Office
asked the Commonwealth to buy British postal
orders, so that they might be sold in Australia for
J. Bull’s convenience. The Commonwealth said
it would if J. Bull would reciprocate by buying
Commonwealth orders for sale in London. J. Bull
thought over it and said he wouldn't; so the
Commonwealth said it wouldn’t either. Now Bull
is partly annoyed because this country won’t re-
main small enough to be bounced. But he is
apparently more annoyed because this country is
big enough to bounce back.
WANTED A
CHANGE.
LANDLADY OF COUNTRY COTTAGE: " I’m sure I’ll
do all I can to make you feel at home.”
MR. HENPECK (on a holiday): “Well, I—I — d-
don’t exactly leant that; I’d just like to he
comfortable.”
The Commonwealth rolls for the Ma State,
just completed, show an addition of nearly 30,000
voters; the total is now over the three-quarter
million mark. The main increases are in the
suburban electorates. Dugald Thomson, of North
Sydney, will have to talk the blessings of Free-
trade and poverty to 4500 new electors next time.
Broken Hill loses 3500; on the other hand, there
has been a big jump in the mining districts of the
Hunter electorate, where Freetrade and Liddell
seem to be up against trouble.
The Murray Government proposes to drop
Bent’s very reasonable plan of “ loading ” land.
Thomas had nous enough to see the folly of the
State selling Crown land at £1 per acre while it
was repurchasing equally poor land at £4 and £5
per acre; also he knew that as long as the State
offered land at the lower figure, there was no hope
of getting people to buy closer-settlement blocks ;
wherefore he “loaded” such Government lands
as were offering, making the purchaser pay a bit
extra for improvements, or on account of neigh-
boring yoads, railways, etc. Also when any
deputation asked him for a railway, his invariable
query was, “ How much will you give towards it
in the way of loading?” There was all of the
huckster about Adolphus, but at least his plan
saved the State from making often-undeserving
landowners a present of thousands of pounds
Now Murray and his crowd have decided not only
to abolish all loading in future,- but to make the
policy retrospective, and place payments already
made against future deferred payments. It is
pretty hard to do worse than Bent, but in this
particular Murray has managed it.
Tasmania’s dreadfully long-winded Educa-
tion Commission occasionally extracts information
of a strident character. The other day it learnt
that teachers who had come over from S. Aus. had
received £2OO and £220 a year, whereas the maxi-
mum allowed by law was £l2O. It learnt further,
with mild astonishment, that the Government did
not have the excess payments ratified by Parlia-
ment; whereupon one commissioner acidly re-
marked something about misappropriation of
public money. And, as he might have further
remarked, it amounted to an admission of loose
administration. He might even have gone further
and remarked that the payment of £l2O a year for
the best teachers of a certain grade—trained men,
with several years’ experience—amounted to
scandalous sweating. The Tas. trouble, however,
is that W. L. Neale, the Director of Education,
is a S. Australian ; and the idea of a whole lot of
the Tasmanian-trained men is that the imported
gentleman’s strenuous effort to suppress sweating
only extended to the men who have followed him
over.
Wade’s law, or what
is presumbably Wade’s
law, is threatened with
more trouble. Section 52
of hi;«,;./)et Industrial Dis-
putes Act disallows any
appeal from the Industrial
Court created under the
Act, and by doing so is
alleged to interfere with
the prerogiitive of the
Crown ; and the Full Court
says the prerogative of the
Crown—that is, the right
to listen to an appeal—
can’t be interfered with
unless with the Crown’s
explicit consent, which
hasn’t been given. This
point was raised for Wade’s
consideration months ago,
and he did nothing visible ;
wherefore one Baxter has
now done what the Act
says he can’t do, and has
appealed against a decision
of the Industrial Court.
So the fat is in the fire,
and Wade’s reputation
threatens to crawl a little
further up the spout.
Kuropatkin, in a recent
number of McClure’s Maga-
zine. put some writing on Aus-
tralia’s wall. To summarise his
article on “Why we lost the
Japanese War,” the disaster hap-
pened—(l) for want of a navy ; (2)
for want of efficient railway com-
munication with the heart of the
country; (3) for want of supreme control
in the hands of one general or council;
and (4) for want of trained forces to levy
on in lieu of raw peasants. The Australian
general of the future, writing on “ Why we were
unable to repel the Japanese invasion,” will
sympathise with Kuropatkin unless the Little-
Australian State-Frights partyis scotched.
While Private Enterprise in Victoria is
shocked'at the idea of the Government running a
coal mine, it turned up at the Mines and Forests
Department the other day to enthusiastically urge
Minister Mcßride to go in for wattle-planting. It
proposed that the State should use State lands for
the purpose, and put on unemployed at the work.
The awful sin of State interference with Private
Enterprise wasn’t mentioned, probably for two
reasons: (1) Wattle-growing isn’t a very profit-
able game, wherefore the State is quite welcome
to it; (2) the deputation w r as mostly in the tan-
ning business, and Private Enterprise saw a fine
chance of getting cheap bark. So between the
two things Private Enterprise was quite content
to be “interfered” with, and the horrors of
Socialism were temporarily overlooked. But
Mcßride gave the deputation very little en-
couragement.
THE LITTLE MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our eyes are fixed ou Hobart Town, far south bv Derwent
Bay,
Where the Little Men are all gone down for a week or
two to stay;
The Little Men, the State’s Frights men, who will meet
there day by day—
The Little Men who burn to bind Australia !
Our ears are pricked to hear their speech, though we
know ere they begin
The words they say, the things they teach, the babble
and the din ;
We know the height their minds will reach, the web
their craft would spin,
To bind the growing limbs of Young Australia.
We know the breed—yea, well we know these Little Men
of ours !
Their futile runnings to and fro, their plans, their petty
powers,
Their wrath and fear, their pomp and show, as they strut
their little hours—
How they hug it to their hearts to bind Australia !
We see them all at council set—a narrow bilious brood—
The Little Men who are hoping yet to baulk our Nation-
hood ;
But vainly will they fume and fret, and speak in bitter
mood—
The Little Men can never bind Australia !
“ Australia ! ’’ What potencies lie hidden in that name 1
What unimagined destinies, what worlds of praise or
blame !
And is it Thee such gnats as these shall think to curb or
tame?
Thy Nationhood is not for sale, Australia !
Blind, blatant, arrogant, and mean, the Little Men may
throng
Each manikin a traitor, keen to do Australia wrong ;
Each resolute to intervene, lest she should grow too
strong—
But thou shalt rise and scatter them, Australia !
Shall any man of men be found whose word or deed shall
bind
The Nation’s strength, or fix a bound whereby her fate’s
defined ?
I trow not! . . . That is not a task to Little Men
assigned;
It is not given to them to bind Australia !
Australia’s path is broad and straight, Australia’s faith is
sure;
She will not fear to face her fate whate’er maybe in store ;
The Little Men may scheme and prate, but their reign is
almost o’er,
For bigger Men are here to guide Australia !
K.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
THE TORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I am,” said he, and seemed to be all glowing- satis-
faction ;
“ A Tory, and I must insist upon a course of action
In every-day affairs that may make me the chief attrac-
tion ;
To reach which state I cultivate an air of deep abstraction !
“ My pensive look I learn by book, with patient, careful
reading;
Yet e’en, alas ! the looking-glass is apt to be misleading !
Though one may find the vulgar mind so coarse as to be
pitied,
One may with care (and well-oiled hair) impress the
simple-witted.
“ Since time began, the creature man, though frivolous or
serious,
As may be seen has always been impressed by the
mysterious !
’Tis by such means one quickly gleans how followers are
captured !
A flood of words enthralls the herds arid holds the flocks
enraptured.
“I have, you know, no plan to show, nor do the folks
demand it!
I speak ; they hear ! The more they cheer the less they
understand it !
To none I yield but Beaconsfield for epigrams delirious !
llow fine that shot: ‘lf you cannot be clever—be
mysterious ! ’ ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


THe Largest
House izi
Australasia
PALING’S
FOR . o .
PIANOS,
ORGANS,
and all Musical Instruments.
Established over Half a Century.
mm*
tmf
jferSna
r. a.
1Y]))
VUA
T
: 'J*>-.r
... iPe
✓ -
I
CATALOGUES
AND FULL
PARTI C U LARS
OF PRICES
POST FREE.
Paling’s give better value for your money in Pianos, Organs, or any
musical instrument than any other house. We are enabled to give
this better value, because the very larg'e business we do enables us to
place standing' orders with the Manufacturers, and thereby secures for
us very substantial discounts.
W. H. PALING (Si CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane and Newcastle.
ElKintSS ( COUNTRY
SUITS
To Measure
m
mm
CUT, HT&FINISH
GUARANTEED
Largest Range ofJuitings
at 3 Guineas toselectjrom
in Australasia.
BUCKLEY e NUNN L T ?
BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE.
TARRant
-2° Tpfrf
cNCIN CtKlNf. " n
D
D jflf r/v
M
WE WANT TO
To tell Yon of Our Cars.
To prove to Yon by thorough.
Demonstration Their Superior
Qualities. To settle Your Minrf
upon the Right Car.
TALK WITH YOU.
To point oat the Value of
the Motor to-day—of the
Motors we represent.
To reason with Yon and
good in all We say.
CALL UPON US TO.OAY.
TARRANT MOTORG
106 vST HELBOVRNE, 2942-^O3O
SOLE A&ENTS FOR FIATS. DE Ol«y T^i^ 1 OU£)U
&f>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
JERDANS
“HOME” BATTERY
FOR.
WINTER AILMENTS.
It is wonderful how quickly the electric
currents of our “Home” Battery relieve
the pain and cure cases of Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Neuralgia, Sciatica, etc.
There is nothing technical or trouble-
some about the machine—you can
work it and get its beneficial effects
right away. No acids to spill or burn
—no wearing parts to replace—only
an occasional renewing of dry cells at
a cost of a few pence. As good for
the child as the adult.
PRICE 35/.
POST FREE.
Battery Booklet Free on Request.
JERDAN’S
(formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair. j
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
When The Bulletin remarked oh Feb. 18 that
“Irishman, Soultline, Scotland and Maltine are regarded
as a boss quartette for the sprint race,” the remark was
very luminous, as things turned out. More so than a
subsequent prediction of Irishman, King Berry, Soultline
and Parsee, for King Berry proved too slow off the mark
to have a chance in the ding-dong Newmarket Handicap
race. In a 6-furlong “go”—a real “go” down the
Flemington straight—only the horses that are early to
the fore have a chance of being there at the finish.
The field this year numbered 23, whereof Irishman
was soon in the lead, with True Scot, Maltine, Ngauru-
hoe, Soultline, Dunolly, Parsee, and Dhobi as his nearest
pursuers. Of these, True Scot, Dhobi, and the horse
with the alarming name were the soonest outpaced,
Irishman remaining very near to the front to the bitter
end. In fact, the favorite, though beaten into third
place at the finish by about half a length or less, might
have actually won but for a furious sprint by Lord Oar-
lyon when half the distance had been covered. The
Adelaide flier rushed up to Irishman and stayed with him
long enough to get him flustered, after which Soultline
came out, and eventually won. Dunolly, the last to put
in a bid for victory, finished a close second, with Irishman
a close third, Maltine, Scotland,.and Parsee coming next.
The time (lmin. 15Jsec.) was fast considering the some-
what-heavy going.
Soultline’s weight (9st. 111 b.) was a record
burden for a Newmarket Handicap winner; it was 41b.
more than Pendant carried in 1906, when the time was
one sec. slower. The Maorilander is a great sprinter,
with a bit of stamina at the back of his speed. Though
a dandy thoroughbred in appearance, Soultline has the
frame for weight-carrying, and just now he is in wonder-
ful nick. Before the race the gelding was as lively as the
proverbial kitten, and afterwards he seemed full of joy and
unconcern. The chances are that he will never again be
quite so fit. This is the time of his life. Soultline and
Irishman, running in different races on the same after-
noon, or in competition, scored as follows within 15 days:
Ist in Oakleigh Plate and St. George’s Plate ; Ist and 2nd
in Futurity Stakes at Caulfield ; Ist and 3rd in New-
market Handicap at Flemington. There hasn’t been
much sugar for the owners of other first-class sprinters.
* * * 7T
Seddon, selected as a likely winner of the Aus-
tralian Cup, was struck out of the longdistance event last
week. But on Saturday this other son of Soult, being
backed for the Brunswick Stakes, won it like the race-
horse he undoubtedly is. Seddon is deeply suspected of
beings as fast as lolaire ; moreover, there is no visible
reason why he shouldn’t win over a distance. The Bruns-
wick Stakes is a 10-furlong race, and when the son of
Soult went up to Yabba Gabba at the distance, the latter
had no more to say in the matter.
Talking of lolaire, that tall, commanding gee-
gee—who was to be sent to India and wasn’t—distin-
guished himself on Saturday by running (unbacked) a
bad last in the w.f.a. Essendon Stakes. Hard to under-
stand is the managerial policy of sending a horse of
lolaire’s calibre for any race in which he doesn’t carry
stable money. r
* * * *
Australian two-year-olds commit such startling
vagaries of “ form ” that the relative merits of the
smartest of them remain a matter of public doubt to the
end of the season, as a rule. But at the present time
Mala is presumably the crack juvenile. The son of
Malster and La France won the valuable Debutante
Stakes at Caulfield in the early Spring, ran second to
Brookong for the Maribymong Plate, giving 101 b. to the
winner for his J-length beating, and won the w.f.a. Sires
Produce Stakes at Flemington last Saturday by half-a- ,
dozen lengths. This was Mala’s third time of beating
Barm and Apple Pie, so one may reckon him considerably
faster than that pair of respectable performers.
■* * * *
Dunolly, the runner-up in the Newmarket, was
one of the best handicapped of all the starters. He won
two sprint races in December previous to capturing the
Standish Handicap at Flemington on New Year’s Day.
Now, as a five-year-old, gotten by Grafton-Aurous, he
was let in at 6st. I3lb. The soft going nearly did the
trick for Dunolly, and Soultine must be a nailer indeed to
have given the five-year-old a matter of 401 b.
Backers of Curtain Lecture can make up their
minds that the eleventh-hour interruption in the Eng-
lish horse’s work had little to do with his poor perform-
ance in the Newmarket. Curtain Lecture is just a showy,
long-backed animal, with a fair turn of speed, equal to
winning a mile race in decent company when his burden
is light.
* * * dr
The defeat of Soultline in the All-Aged Stakes
by Parsee was something- of a sensation. Soultline, carry-
ing- Bst. 121 b., started at 7 to 2 on ; Parsee, with Bst. 61b.
up, went out at 7to 1 against. At the beginning Soult-
line took charge of the field of five, and led them to the
home turn. Entering the straight Parsee had cut down
lolaire, who fell back behind Virtu. Clayton had his
mount perfectly in hand, and seemed to hold the
favorite with the greatest of ease, letting him make the
pace till just below the distance, when he loosened out,
passed Soultline, and won comfortably with a good two
lengths to spare, in lmin. 41Jsec. . It wasn’t so much
what the rider of Parsee did as the graceful, well-
judged way he did it.
The V.R.O. moves with the times in altering
the old order of days and racing fixtures for its Autumn
meeting. Originally,' the programme’ was, Newmarket
Handicap on the first Saturday, Australian Cupon theTueS-
day, Champion Stakes'on Thursday, and Steeplechase on
the second Saturday. A few years ago the V.R.C. com-
mittee became aware that the Champion Stakes would
probably be more attractive o.n a.Saturday half-holiday
than on the Thursday, which was always the very “ off ”
day of the meeting-. So the Champion event was put
back to the last day, and the Autumn Handicap and All-
aged Stakes ranked as principal features of the third or
“ off” day. This year, for the first time, the committee
took advantage of the Wednesday half-holiday for the
Australian Cup race, and made this the third day of the
meeting, the programme-previously fixed for the Thurs-
day being now run off on the Monday. In fixing- the four
days of its Autumn meeting for Saturday, Monday,
Wednesday and Saturday the V.R.ULhas at last adopted
the A.J.C. plan, but' with a difference, insofat that at
Randwick the Metropolitan (in the Spring) and Sydney
Cup (in the Autumn) are both of them run on the Monday,
which in the case of the Sydney Cup is Easter Monday.
Presently the A.J.C. will, doubtless, see the wisdom of
reserving the Metropolitan Handicap for the Wednesday.
And now conies the question why the Melbourne Cup in
November, which is a bank holiday event, should continue
to be fixed for a Tuesday, when it might, with so much
more satisfaction to the public and convenience to busi-
ness- people, be appointed to happen on the Monday.
The inevitable change will presumably be introduced at
next Spring Meeting—Derby on Saturday, Melbourne
Cup on. Monday, Oaks on Wednesday, and Steeplechase on
Saturday. There should be a little bit of extra profit on
the alteration, and only the Lord and the V.R.C. com-
lhittee know why it wasn’t brought about years ago.
True, the Wednesday is not an early-closing day for the
local suburban shops when a public holiday falls in the
same week ; but the rule hitherto has been for a number
of visitors from other States to return home on the Wed-
nesday between the Cup and the Oaks, whereas, if the
alteration were made, they would attend the third, or
Oaks, day’s meeting.
* * • *
Irishman seems to have had bad luck in losing
the Futurity Stakes at Caulfield. Williams, who rode
the horse, was decidedly off-color before he went out,
and after the event he was as sick as he looked. Never-
theless a number of people standing near the judge’s
box had come to the conclusion that Irishman, and not
Soultline, came first past the post. On the other hand,
it was Soultline that had a bit of bad luck in the running
a couple of furlongs from home.
S. Australian Jockey Club is raising its stakes
for all leading events, in response to the handsome in-
crease in totalisator takings last year. The Adelaide Cup
is to be worth £lOOO. An owner can nominate for £l, and
start for £lO. The Goodwood Handicap will carry £5OO.
Does anybody remember when a racing club increased its
prize money—and thereby attracted better horses —
because Israel Moses had an extra-good turn-over the
previous year?
Yol. 27 of J. J. Miller’s “ Racing Chronicle ”
made its appearance last week in time for the enlighten-
ment of those students of “form ” who carry the book in
their pocket to a V.R.C. Autumn meeting. The latest
volume takes the chronicle from August 1, 1908, to the
end of January last.
# " * * *
The N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union should certainly
start in business as a rain-making concern. To ensure a
good, solid downpour, all that is necessary is to get the
Cyclists’ Union to arrange a carnival and fix the date ;
and then, sure as eggs, the rain will pour on the appointed
night. On Wednesday week the carnival at Sydney
Sports Ground had just started when a deluge covered
the track. Carnival postponed till Friday night. The
same thing happened on the Friday evening, and the
affair was suspended till Monday night. On the Monday
evening Nature made a game effort, but the hot day had
been too much for it, and by the time it had the shower
going, the cyclists and their audience were (or ought to
have been) safely in bed. But, all the same, it rained.
The chief events were the Half-mile and Ten-
miles Amateur championships. For the shorter event
Victor Schultz, of Queensland, was easily favorite,
although a considerable N.S.W. following pinned their
faith to Percy Mutton, who has a habit of unwinding
himself in a finishing sprint that takes a lot of eclipsing.
There were four heats and a final composed only of the
winners of the heats ; so in the last effort three ’Walers
(P. Mutton, C. M. Cutliffe, and E. Schneider)
opposed one Queenslander (Victor Schultz). The
final was unpaced, and Schneider went out to
get a break on the field, But the field was not to be
caught napping; and, Schneider slowing down, the affair
became a crawling match till the bell rang, when Schultz
bounded away, and at the beginning of the straight was
leading by a length. Then Mutton unwound himself,
and amidst tremendous excitement drew' level with the
Queenslander, passed him, and beat him by the space of
the front wheel. Naturally, after the “ crawl ” tactics,
the time W'as horrible, the figures being lmin. 39sec.
The Ten Miles was a much more stirring sight.
No less than 17 lined up, and were sent off to a flying
start. They paddled round easily enough for a couple of
miles, w'hen Priestly (N.S.W.) dashed away, and after
going a lap was leading by over 200 yards. The field
declined to take him seriously ; although Victor Schultz
tried to pace the field up to the flying leader, no one else
would relieve him, so the Queenslander’s sane effort was
wasted. It was only when half the distance had been
covered, and Priestly had a lap to his credit, that the
field began to realise it had been acting the giddy William
in not backing up Schultz in. his attempt to close the gap.
Then the speed began to hum, but Priestly was
as tough as nails. Round after round he swept along
in front, and behind the field toiled hopelessly,
furiously. It was gaining, but so slowly that long before
the gap could be closed the race W'ould be over. As they
slowed down momentarily Priestly came with a terrific
rush, and, getting in among the Others, had a full lap to
his credit. The field got vexed —in fact, it was “ narked”
—and with a savage effort it shot away from him. But he
pegged away, and though they got back quarter of a lap,
it was a vain effort. With 14 rounds to go, he was again
among the bunch, and going stronger. As they streaked
away, Priestly went out and again made the pace a
cracker, finally. winning by one lap and 100 yards, in
25min. 32 2-ssec.
* * * *
The Automobile Club of Victoria recently
announced that at Easter it would hold a four-days
Tourist Reliability Trial from Geelong to Narraeoorte in
S.A., and back to Melbourne. It was also announced
that the club would include the contest for the Dunlop
Cup in its outing. Then it struck someone that it would
be bad policy, on the part of the club to accept a trophy
from a trade concern ; and the Dunlop Co. was informed
that the club would not accept the Cup after having
asked for it. This was rather, a bad break ; but when the
details of the race were announced, the outstanding
feature of the programme was that the rather squeamish
club" had actually decided to hold a race for
prizes on Easter Sunday. If this doesn’t bring dowm the
wrath of Judkins, Treadgear and Woodful, also Worrall,
then those mighty champions of the Ter-ewth and pro-
priety have gone utterly to the dogs. The itinerary of
the race is from Geelong to Hamilton, 157 miles, on Good
Friday ; Hamilton to Narraeoorte, via Mt. Gambier, 159
miles, on the Saturday ; Narraeoorte to Stawell, 155
miles, on Easter Sunday ; Stawell to Melbourne, via
Ballarat, 144 miles, on Easter, Monday. This will make
615 miles in all, which ought to be a fairly reliable test of
smooth running. All the same, the crowd that arranged
that time-table is in for a wigging.
* * * *
The World’s Cycling . Championships meeting
takes place in Paris in August next, and Australia will be
represented by A. J. Clarke, the 22-year-old Victorian
cyclist. Clarke is now' considered the fastest sprinter in
the world, having beaten both Kramer and Major Taylorin
straight out, ding-dong contests. Kramer he has defeated
four times, and Major Taylor lost his reputation both as a
racer and as a sportsman to him. It was at a special match
at Boston last January that Taylor went under. Clarke
beat him easily in the first heat; but in the second Tay-
lor got home by a wheel. Then, in the final, Clarke came
with a tremendous rush to pass him on the outside. Tay-
lor is said to have prevehted his" passage by unfair
methods, and the judges held, that, he fouled twice,
declared the heat no race, and ordered it, to be re-run.
Taylor refused, and the judges awarded Clarke the event.
After defeating the Yankee-cracks, Clarke passed on to
Paris, where he is now, and will remain till the world
championships are decided, when he will meet that won-
derful rider Ellegaard, and the French crack Poulain,
and other European wonders, in special matches. The
tail of the Kangaroo is exalted.
The G.-G.’s weekly cricket matches are generally
considered in S. A: to’be too much on the lines of the fun
, a small boy,has with frogs. .His Ex. is very hospitable,
and very keen—the hours of play in one match were 10 to
,6.30. But he always gets from four to seven inter-State
players on his side, and the strictly-moderate performers
on the other side don’t have much fun—George Giffen
alone made more runs against the S. Aus. Parliament
than all the legislators put together. However bt.
Peter’s College old-boys only just lost to the Dudlev-
Giffen combination. They reckon that if Ernest Parker,
on his way back from playing for the Rest of Australia,
could have stopped over for the game, they would have
won. Prince Alfred’s, the rival seat of learning, is
anxious to get an old boys’ match too. Their eleven
could begin with Clem and Roy Hill, Darling and Dolling ;
and even the two G.G.s —the G.-G. and George Giffen
wouldn’t get much change out of that little lot.
* » * *
Grade cricket in Sydney on Saturday had a,
champagne quality. The feature of the day was W.
Bardsley’s second successive double century, that terrific
smiter of the Glebe carrying his bat for 217. Besides
this feat, centuries were made by E. S. Middleton,
of Middle Harbor, 174 : E. Waddy, of Central
Cumberland, 150; J. B. O’Neill, same club, 112;
and below them quite a number of good solid scores of 50
and 60 odd. It was a batsman’s day, and some of the
scoring was phenomenal: Central Cumberland, with two
centuries to swell the total, made 478 for eight wickets
against Balmain ; Middle Harbor, 463 against Gordon.
When it got to the stumps, Gordon promptly lost two
for no runs, and finished the day 7 without scoring a soli-
tary one. Glebe made 370 for the loss of nine wickets
against North Sydney.
» * * *
The feature of Saturday’s cricket in Melbourne
was an unusual triumph for Essendon, which dared Rich-
mond to exceed its 283, and found Richmond wanting to
the extent of 139 on the first innings. Fitzroy, with a
first innings total of 30, required 115 to avoid a one
innings defeat by Melbourne, and only accomplished 101
—-something of an exploit perhaps for 'Roy on a
damp wicket —and thus lost by an innings and 14.
Carlton, with no w'ickets down for 10 North
Melbourne’s 250, realised 112 for the first innings,
and 101 for four wickets in its follow-on ; and
so it surrendered to North by 138 on the first
strikes. P’ran, closing down at 317 for six wickets, sent
its opponent, St. Kilda, to the wickets ; dismissed Saints
for 133, first innings, and for 33 for three wickets in the
second. Thus it was victorious by 184 on the first in-
nings. South Melbourne declared closed at five for 339,
against Northcote, and, as N’cote could only shove 92 and
three for 28 on the board, it was to the bad on the first
innings by 247 runs. University, with two wickets down
for 58, against Collingwood’s compilation of 265, made 151
in all; then ’Wood, yearning for a straight-out victory, hit
up 51 for seven wickets, declared closed, and permitted
the students to reoecupy the pitch. The young men
banged up 101 for seven wickets, and so ’Wood had to be
content with a first-innings victory by 114 runs.
* * * *
Somebody writes: “Do you honestly believe
that the Board had the interest of cricket mostly at heart
in the recent struggle, and not the clipping of the wings
of a most prominent player?” In reply, The Bulletin
unhesitatingly says it does. The clipping of the wings of
a most prominent player and several other most prominent
players was necessary, unless international cricket was to
become a business and not a healthy sport rivalry. The
“ Players” deliberately tried to put cricket on a boodle
basis and to make the Australian XI. a close corporation,
to gain admission to which it would soon have become
necessary to pay a handsome premium. It was the most
impudent thing that has ever been attempted in the his-
tory of pan-Britannic sport. And to defeat the machina-
tions of the gang who were working to make cricket a
business, any measures short of assassination were legiti-
mate. The gang- stopped at nothing, and when that sort
of boodler crops up, he has to be dealt with in the most
rough and ready manner. The same writer asks The Bul-
letin to justify the selection of Ha’rtigan and McAlister,
and the rejection of Hopkins and Gehrs. Well, the justi-
fication is that the Board of Control selection committee,
which represents the cricket associations of Australia,
chose the first two and rejected the second pair. And as
they had much more information at their disposal than
the general public, and could devote much more time to
the job than the writer, he is quite prepared to leave the
matter in the committee’s hands. Anyhow, if the Board
has made a bloomer, it is not such a dreadful one as to
be worth making a row about. There’s mighty little
difference between them all. The most necessary thing
was to establish the authority of the Board, and that has
been done.
TV * * *
The easy superiority of Yic. swimmer Beau-
repaire over all-comers makes the record of his successes
monotonous. At the recent annual carnival of the
Hawthorn (Vic.) Swimming Club he purloined the only
event of the evening, the Mile Championship, in the new
Victorian record time of 24min. 33sec., the previous record
being 26min. 25see. During 7 the course of the paddle he
also fractured the previous Vic. record for the half-mile
(12min. 50sec.) by a new one of his own, viz.—
llrnin. 584-ssec.
* * * *
At the Abbotsford (Vic.) annual swim on Satur-
day, “Bogey” appeared in the 220yds. Championship,
and, besides winning it, smashed his own previous record
of 2min. 34 3-ssec. by paddling the distance in 2min.
81 2-ssec. This was accomplished in slow water and
without pace, and still it was only 3see. longer than
Kieran’s record for the world.
* * * TV
Barry, it seems, is unwilling to allow Arnst
more than £l5O for expenses for the match on the
Thames, and it is most probable that Arnst will forego
the other £5O, as he is anxious to get to England and
make a splash. There are several big handicaps about the
end of July over which he proposes to make an effort ;
and after polishing off Barry he will go across to Canada
and clean up Durnan at Ottawa, or Toronto, where the
Canadian is offering £2OO for expenses and half the gat§,
besides the usual side-wager. Richard will take big-
brother Jack with him as guide and philosopher. The
only fly in the ointment is that Barry wants to row in
August instead of July, which will upset Dick’s timetable
somewhat.
* * * *
Miss Gladys Tait, of Wentworth ladies’ swim-
ming club, Sydney, had a day out on Saturday at the
Australasian ladies’ championship meeting at Lavender
Bay baths. In the 100yds. Australasian ladies’ champion-
ship she came with a great sprint at the finish, and by a
few inches beat Miss Wylie, the holder of the champion-
ship and the ladies’ record. Still, the time (lmin.
17 4-ssee.) was not near Miss Wylie’s record (lmin. 4-ssec.).
The diving competition also fell to the same girl, and
Wentworth Club won the 250yds. team championship
chiefly through her fine work. Altogether it was her day
out.
* * * *
The weather didn’t look too auspicious for
Melbourne yachting last Saturday morning, but by one
o’clock the rain-clouds had tucked themselves away 7 .
Thyis the Brighton Yacht Club was enabled to hold its
animal regatta with a comfortable blast from the south-
east to help it along. The event of the afternoon, the
race for first-class boats, handicap on performances, fell
to a swift and beautifully-handled little boat called Ada ;
Vixen second, and Hinemoa third. That was after cor-
recting for time allowances ; in the actual finish Hinemoa
was second and Vixen fourth.
■* * *
Ballarat (Vic.), which generally holds its rowing
regatta on a Friday, held it last Saturday, in order to
seduce outside clubs to enter and compete. Although an
increased number of outside clubs did enter and compete,
a fiendish drizzle of rain saturated clothes and washed
out the bulk of the enthusiasm. The feature of the damp
day was the Wendouree Club’s wins in the Junior Eight,
Maiden Eight, Junior Sculls, and Maiden Sculls. Essendon
collared the Junior Four, Maiden Four and Maiden Pair ;
while the big race, the Senior Eight, was snared by
Mercantile, Wendouree, after an exciting tussle, being
second, only 7 Bft. away.
* " * * ' *
Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron had enough life
in it to give owner Lloyd Jones and skipper Reeks, of the
Thelma, a rousing welcome home when the deep-keeler
ret)irned from the gallant attempt to annex the Sayonara
Cup. As most people know, Mr. Reeks, who navigated
the yacht during the contest, also designed the craft,
and it is a testimony to his eraftmanslhp in both direc-
tiohs that in his middle age he should skipper the craft
he designed in the youth of his career. It only re-
quired that he should win to bevel off the edge of the
affair in a symmetrical manner ; as he dashed over the
finishing line he could then have raised his cap with
one hand, and, with the other across his manly bosom,
have exclaimed fervently, “ I made her.” But Fate has
no idea of the symmetrical.
A marvellous imitation of a wild Westralian
willy-willy was given by Props Reeder and Tom Fennessey,
Australia’s two bulkiest heavyweights, when they met in
the ring at Melb. Cyclorama the other night. The affair
was not a glittering success, considered as a display of
scientific pugilism, but regarded as an Irish knock-about
turn for a vaudeville entertainment it would have been
a terrific hit. The two men divide 12ft. 3in., and some-
thing like 265 t., between them, and they fight like insane
windmills in a mad cinematograph. They pully-hauled,
and wrestled, and rolled, and tugged, and tore, and
sweated till the ring resembled the briny deep ; and
then Mr. Props Reeder, being exhausted and discouraged,
and remembering that he had an appointment elsewhere,
appealed to his seconds to float the signal, and Fennessey
had won the sporting mixture in five rounds of gaiety.
* » * *
“Snell”: These pugilists are as imitative as
chickens, lambs, or actors. Tommy Burns made a point
of representing the partner of his joys and sorrows as sit-
ting at home, enduring agonies, and bathing herself in
floods of tears what time he was in the ring bashing and
being bashed ; and since then every pugilist who has a
wife of his own has made a similar tender appeal to pub-
lic sympathy on behalf of the missus who bides by the
ingle, cherishing superior sentiments, and crying her
nice eyes out. In one instance I wot of the ring general
who invited the public to consider his wife’s picturesque
grief is in the habit of hitting-up the old Dutch, and
blacking her features, when he has nobody to wallop
professionally, and I cannot, for the life of me, have faith
in the poor woman’s alleged morbid sorrow when her lord
is neglecting his domestic practices to bash a total
stranger.
* * * *
The Australasian tennis world is in a state of
upheaval, secession and revolution generally, and the
amount of “ slack ” being exchanged between the rival
factions would be alarming in any other circle. The
trouble is that Maoriland, which has hitherto, for inter-
national purposes, been regarded as one of the States of
Australia, and been represented by the Australian
governing body, desires to cut the painter, go alone, be
represented by its own delegates, and collar its share of
the boodle. And though the writer has primed himself
on fire-water, raw meat and other things said to induce a
fighting frame of mind, for the life of him he cannot see
why Australian tennis people should resent the demand.
The inclusion of Maoriland in an Australian association
was a mistake from the beginning. A country that is
separated from Australia by three thousand miles of
beastly stormy water cannot be part of Australia. If
Maoriland thinks it is strong enough to go alone, and
keep its end of the stick up among the tennis nations,
then good luck to it! It’s a bumptious little people, and
the love of freedom—even freedom to wallop its own
nigger—is a sacred thing when it is interfered with by a
people three thousand miles away across a sheet of water
that gets strangely disturbed occasionally. The chances
are that Maoriland is quite strong enough to hold its own
in tennis. The game is much more generally played in
the Isles than in Australia, and Maoriland’s separation
will have a healthy effect on the game in the continent.
So Maoriland may depart in peace, and drink its own
health on achieving independence.
* * * *
The bony individual who plays football, and
the wiry individual whom Kipling described as the
“ flannelled fool at the wickets,” are inclined to regard ten-
nis with the haughty glare of contempt. But therein the
cricketer and the footballer show their ignorance. As a
matter of fact, tennis is one of the best games going. It
is not a game that kills, but it keeps the man (and the
woman too) who doesn’t want to take healthy exer-
cise in bullock-doses, healthy and fresh. Every part of
the body is brought into play, and the eye and the mind
also benefit. A tennis-playing crowd is a healthy crowd,
and the fact that women can take part makes it more at-
tractive without detracting from its efficacy as a healthy
exercise. All that is wanted in Australia to make the
game grow like Jonah’s gourd, and be much more en-
during, is the adoption of the district system. Then it
would simply boom along.
* * * *
A leading London critic sums up the late Aus-
tralian football team (“ Wallabies ”) in a friendly column
that may be boiled down thus : Quite strong at half, only
ordinary at three-quarters, really good at full-back (Car-
michael), and as forwards good—better than the South
Africans. Not as fast as Maorilanders or Africans.
Strongest at ‘‘robust defence.” Two or three of the for-
wards among the best men in the team. Tom Richards
“the one great spectacular artist”; no one particular
man behind “whom the crowd wanted to go and see
play.” Russell got 24 tries ; Carmichael placed 52 goals;
there was not a dropped goal in the whole tour. The
team won its 24 matches (five lost, one drawn) by “ dash,
unfailing energy and pluck,” without much strategy.
* » * »
“Billiards, Ltd.,” is the latest Sydney amuse-
ment venture. It opened new billiard parlors at 630-634
George-street, on Monday Bight, with a dinner and sundry
speeches. G. H. Reid did the oyster trick, and explained
how all his life he had been endeavoring to make a
break, and signally failed. Which, for G. Reid, was an
astounding' statement. The saloon has eight billiard-
rooms, covering three floors, to which access is gained by
means of electric lifts. A feature of the establishment is a
tournament theatre which will hold about 500 people in
such awtty that they can all get a first-class look at the con-
test. Another excellent idea is the private billiard-rooms,
which can be hired by the night, with refreshments and
other things laid on, by private parties. The whole place
is fitted up with the subdued luxury that bespeaks the
cultured mind. Even the advertisements are tasteful
works of art, etched on ground glass. The advantage of
spending the evening at the halls of Billiards Ltd. is that
players on.-the second floor receive a cash order for 6d. for
every 100 played, which will be honored by any of the
firms whose advertisements are etched on the ground
glass. This practically reduces the price of the amuse-
ment to 6d. per 100. Experts anticipate a g-olden future
for the show.*
Bishop Green, of Ballarat: “I am not
aware of any Christian maxim which recommends
gloom on Sundays.” No; but, somehow, most
Christian parsons will insist on people observing
the Sabbath through smoked glasses.
A LITTLE COMMON-SENSE.
In using any kind of medicine a little common-
senseis always necessary. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are compounded to meet the general
requirements of man, woman and child, both
weak and strong, and in prescribing the doses of
f rorn o ne to four pills, the actual number neces-
• y r t y determined ueeordinir
m eaLtl c , ase m ’? st De aetermmea dccoramg
to the age and condition of the patient. A (lose
however, should be sufficient to move the bowels
at least twice, and although relief may be obtained
at once, it is alwavs advisable to take a pill or
two on the f o H uw ing night.
T , ° .if ~ j
T , n sou ! e mst J ance f the nrst dose may cause a
kittle pain and sickness, which will not recur
subsequently. The cause is due to the large flow
of bile into the intestines, which the pills have let
loose by opening the congested duets which have
been clogged up, perhaps, for months. Do not
blame the pills if under these conditions you feel
• . Yn.i will fool better afterwards and if von
S1 ? lv - U ™ atterwaros ana it jou
Dr. Morses Indian Koot Jriils as your
regular medicine, there is no likelihood of your
liver getting in the same state again.


TWO-UP !
is all right, but one man upon a
B. and B. machine is better.
Send us your name and address
for Free 1909 Catalogue.
MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
The B. and B. Model 3
is built of the best British parts, fitted
with first-class tyres, and guaranteed
for twelve months.
Price, £ll.
With Free-Wheel and Back Brake, or
Coaster Huh, 20s. extra.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Cycle-building 234 Pitt Street and 130-132
House in the State, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Before
After
FAX PEOPLE!
NORMAL HERBAL OBESITY CURE will
reduce your weight three to five pounds a
week, and relieve that feeling of fulness and
oppression by producing healthy digestion and
assimilation. It strengthens the heart and
enables you to breathe easily, removes double
chin, large stomach, fat hips, &c. No person is
so fat but what it will have the desired effect.
We absolutely guarantee satisfaction in every
case. It will cost you nothing to try it. Write
for a Free Trial Sample and Free Booklet on
the dangers and cure of Obesity.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
43 A Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY
LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE - - HARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
DIRECTORS :
H. B. HO WARD-SMITH, Esq., Chairman.
O. C. SMITH, Esq.
W. G. SPRIGG, Esq.
HENRY HOWELL, Esq.
MANAGING- DIRECTOR:
C. MORETON NEWMAN, Esq.
SOLICITOR :
W. H. CROKER, Esq.
AUDITORS :
WM. DENSHAM, Esq. | EDWIN H. FLACK, Esq.
SECRETARY :
J. K. LOTHERINGTON.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT.
YOUR Directors have satisfaction in presenting herewith the Audited Balance-Sheet for the
Eighth Year of the Company’s operations, which shows that the business has been well
maintained.
The Balance, including £lB,lBB 10s. Bd. brought forward from last year, is .. .. £75,259 5 5
from which an interim dividend was paid in September last at the rate of 6d. per
share on Cumulative Preference Shares, and Is. 6d. per share on Ordinary Shares,
and pro rata on the respective Contributing Shares, amounting-to .. .. .. 22,775 3 4
Leaving available .. £55,484 2 1
from which the Directors recommend the payment of a further dividend at the
rate of 6d. per share on Cumulative Preference Shares, and Is. 6d. per share on
Ordinary Shares, and pro rata on the respective Contributing Shares, absorbing .. 24,827 810
leaving to carry forward a balance of.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £30,656 13 3
In accordance with Clause 69 of the Articles of Association, Two Directors, W. G. SPRIGG,
Esq., and HENRY HOWELL, Esq., retire, but, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
To the Shareholders of HOWARD SMITH COMPANY, LIMITED.
Ladies and Uentlemen,—We beg to report that we have audited the books and accounts of your Company for the
year ended December 31,1908, and do hereby certify that, so far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the
Balance-Sheet and Accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the “ Companies Acts,” and
present a correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs at that date.
Dated at Melbourne this 22nd day of February, 1909.
WM. DENSHAM,
EDWIN H. FLACK,
Auditors.
STATEMENT AND BALANCE-SHEET of HOWARD SMITH COMPANY Limited,
At the 31st day of December, 1908.
I, CHARLES MORETON NEWMAN, Managing Director of Howard Smith Company Limited, do solemnly and
sincerely declare —
That the Liability of the Members is limited.
That the Capital of the Company is, as shown by the Balance-Sheet, £1,000,000, divided into £1,000,000 Shares of
One Pound each.
That the number of Shares issued is 500,000, consisting of 250,000 Cumulative Preference and 250,000 Ordinary.
Of this number, 162,500 Cumulative Preference, and 162,500 Ordinary, u'ere issued as fully paid up to the
Vendors in payment for the business, and the remainder, consisting of 87,500 Cumulative Preference and
87,500 Ordinary, were issued to the Public.
That of the issue to the Public there has been actually and bona-fide received in money the sum of £175,000.
That there is nothing due by the Company on Mortgage or Debentures, or any floating charge on the General
Assets of the Company.
That the Assets and Liabilities of the Company on December 31, 1908, were
Dr. LIABILITIES.
To Authorised Capital—
-500,000 Cumulative Pre-
ference Shares of
£1 each .. .. £500,000 0 0
500,000 Ordinary Shares
of £1 each .. 500,000 0 0
£1,000,000 0 0
Of which there have been issued—
-250,000 Cumulative Pre-
ference Shares,
fully paid up .. £250,000 0 0
250,000 Ordinary Shares,
fully paid up .. 250,000 0 0
500,000
To Fund for Depreciation of Steamers,
Plant, Leasehold Property, and Shares
in other Companies, R placements,
Renewals, Insurance, Equalisation of
Dividends and contingencies (invested
in the Company’s business)
To Debts due by the Company
To Profit and Loss Account —
Profit £78,259 5 5
Deduct —
Interim Dividend Paid 22,775 3 4
£500,000 0 0
365,254 7 0
134,560 8 1
55,484 2 1
£1,055,298 17 2
ASSETS.
By Real Estate at Cost
~ Leasehold Property at Cost
~ Steamers and Plant at Cost
~ Shares in other Companies at Cost ..
~ Stocks of Coal and General Stores at
Cost ..
„ Balances due by Branches
„ Insurance Premiums prepaid, Claims
against Underwriters, Debtors for
Coal, Freights, Passages, and Wharf-
ages, and Deposits on Trade Contracts,
after providing for Bad and Doubtful
Debts
Cash at Bankers and on hand.
Cr.
£4,654 10 0
10,129 1 4
654,697 19 11
196,681 5 8
29,238 11 10
4,518 5 9
133,471 16 6
21,907 6 2
£1,055,298 17 0
That the following' are the Names, Addresses, and Occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the
Company at the date of the Statement: —
H. B. HOWARD-SMITH, Esq., Melbourne, Gentleman.
O. O. SMITH, Esq., Melbourne, Gentleman.
W. G. SPRIGG, Esq., Melbourne, Accountant.
HENRY HOWELL, Esq., Sydney, Manager.
C. MORETON NEWMAN, Esq., Managing Director.
That I am the Managing Director of HOWARD SMITH COMPANY LIMITED, and that the above statement
is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in every particular, and I make this solemn declaration conscien-
tiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of Parliament of Victoria, rendering
persons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 22nd dav of February, 1909,
before me— ' C. M. NEWMAN.
W. H. CROKER, Notary Public, Melbourne.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE.
We, WILLIAM DENSHAM, of 53 Queen Street, and EDWIN HAROLD FLACK, of 12S William Street, both of
T l MiT U rT’i ln v, t,he Stale of Victoria, having been duly appointed Auditors of HOWARD SMITH COMPANY,
lI 'V' D, f 0 hereby certify that we have examined and compared the books, accounts, vouchers, and securities of
the Company, together with the certified returns as received from the Branches for the .year ended December 31,
190 s, and do hereby declare that, so far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the Shareholders’ Balance-Sheet,
the Private Balance-Sheet, and the Accounts of the Company have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions
0 khf. Companies Acts,” and present a correct view of the Company’s affairs at that date.
, We further certify that we have not observed nor become acquainted with during the audit any breach of the
Companies Acts ’committed by the Company, or by any Director, Manager, Employee, Auditor, or Shareholder
thereof, and that- all our Requirements as Auditors have been complied with.
Dated at Melbourne this 22nd day of February, 1909.
WM. DENSHAM, )
EDWIN H. FLACK, /
Auditors.
irn, )'fh i i ® S SMITH and WILLIAM GARDINER SPRIGG, of Melbourne, two of the Directors of
HOWARD SMITH COMPANY LIMITED, do hereby certify, on behalf of the Board, that in our opinion the
tsaiance-feheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Melbourne, February 22, 1909.
Witness—
W. H. CROKER, Notary Public, Melbourne.
ORMOND C. SMITH,
\Y. O. SI’RIGG,
Directors.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing- Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land# Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Blig'h Street, SYDNEY.
The Methodist Conference in Melbourne
suggests the appointment of “ boardihg-house
missionaries,” whose duty it will be to carry their
hymn-books into boarding houses where young
people most do congregate, and endeavor to wean
then from un-Sabbatarian habits. Lodgers, it
seems, do not go to church, and the boarding-
house missionaries will struggle to induce them to
change their ways and their clothes on Sabbath
mornings ; but, failing in that, they will strive to
influence them at home, possibly by holding sur-
prise services in the dining-room, while the
boarders are engaged in the familiar catch-as-
catch-can contest with the linoleum chicken that
serves for Sunday’s dinner. Nobody ever heard
of a converted boarder ; but the Methodists may
even yet break the record.
Waxcellency Madden has been revelling in
loquacity at Melb. Divorce Court of late. A
divorce suit provides a picnic for the Chief,Jus-
tice’s moral principles and judicial comments.
The more the evidence speaks for itself, the
longer the sermon that his Honor preaches on it.
He likes to fire reproofs at an undeserving peti-
tioner before refusing him a decree nisi 5 he
delights in pitying the sorrows of an ill-used wife ;
and how he loves to boil with indignation in dis-
cussing the iniquities of areal A 1 hardened mis-
demeanant of either sex ! He is happiest when
giving the respondent beans.” Last week the
Waxcellencyhad to- deal with a wife and mother,
whose disrespect for the marriage-tie shocked him
beyond measure. After talking at her for some
time, the fluent speaker remarked that “words
were no use in such a case, but words were the
only things that,could be said.” He couldn’t say
the deaf and dumb alphabet, or the language
of flowers, so he just continued to say words. On
the wings of his eloquence he flew to Morocco for
a suitable illustration of the punishment the
respondent deserved. “In Morocco,” said the
persistent sayer, “a woman who misconducts
herself is placed naked on a mule, and taken
round the streets and publicly beaten ” —as though
she could be privately beaten in the streets, with
a mule underneath her ! “ with sticks. Perhaps
that would not be a bad thing in a case of this
kind, and it might deter others from doing like-
wise.” Which suggests that Mr. John Madden’s
present sphere of usefulness is much too narrow
and civilised for him in a country where he can
only chastise a giddy matron with a decree nisi
and Costs against the co-re, A man of Madden’s
picturesque imagination is positively wasted. He
ought to be the Sultan of Morocco.
I
/
mm
This Conveyor Belt
700 ft. long, 18 in. wide
(6-ply), weighing over
one-and-a-half tons —is
only one of many we
have supplied to the lead-
ing mines of Australia—
results having demon-
strated that “ Dunlop ”
Belts outwear and give
better satisfaction than
the imported article.
Last year we sold over
Six Miles of this Belting,
which we can supply
40 in. wide, in any length.
WE ALSO make a special-
ity of Vanner and Balata
Belting, Valves, Suction
and Air Hose, Packings,
Insertions, Gaskets, etc.
j,
M&tmM
Jubmiticd
pßSSGisfced lists
on Application.
Dunlop
Rubber
Co.
Melbourne
Sydney
Adelaide
Perth
Brisbane and
Christchurch.
tab
nee


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
>1 ** * * * » ' '• ‘ IvN
► » > > V.'V 1) »
)■ -i. v. * A -y v * •■
HI
vVAWWw ■ l \aaA\\;;A'?Ay\ ••'v\'vWVAViVvvAfl
■O'-
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
A LUXURIOUS SHAVE
is assured by using l
THE MAXIM RAZOR.
Blades fin., }in., or fin. deep. Round, Square or Irish Point"..
Sold under absolute guarantee at
Post Free to any part of Australia.
6 6.
Torrey’s Swing Strop, 2/6.
Lati'.aiireme Shaving StiCA, Cd.
SOLU AORXTS FOR MAXIM RAZOR:
MCLEAN, BROS & RIQB PTY. LTD. (Under direction of Tlios. Luxtcni &
147-149 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne, Importer* of Hard ware and Sportine
Sons),
Goods.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES
A Puzzle Pocket Knife
is one of the most useful
novelties obtainable.
Best quality steel blade,
buff horn handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut as
well as to open. Makes
a splendid knife for
general use, also a
superior rabbiter’sknife.
Price, with full direc-
tions, 2/2, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Ulus'
trated Catalogue—just
published.
Wholesale and Retail.
The MULTIPLYING and VANISHING BILLIARD BALL TRICK.
UNIQUE BILLIARD BALL.
By far the best and most, effective billiard
ball trick ever invented. This is a superior
method to any other billiard ball trick ever
yet performed. The peculiarity of it is that
the balls can be given for examination as
they are produced, to show thev are solid
The performer having turned up" his sleeves
and shown his hands empty, gives a minia-
ture billiard ball, about one inch in diame-
ter, for examination. The audience being
atisfied, he takes it in his left hand and
massing his right hand over it shows two.
Again a mystic pass, and there are three
which he shows are quite solid. The audi-
ence now see, to their astoni-hmet, four
balls. These gradually vanish one after the
other, till there is only one left, which is
again passed round for examination. An
adequate description cannot be given of this
most delightful effect. If is one of the
prettiest little sleights seen for a long time.
The billiard ball set is made in *• ivorine,"'
and can be made in any size. The illustra-
tion will give our customers some idea of
the effect that ••aa .>o not. uuuu with this complete set. The sleeves are turned
back whilst performing this trick the whole time, the hands shown eniptv, and
at any minute, whilst the trick is being performed, the balls can be passed for
inspection.
This trick requires no sleight of hand, and can be performed by any person.
The balls can be made to multiply or vanish at the will of the operator.
Price (with full Instructions), 1/6; or post free anywhere for 2/-
a
01
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Ha.vinnrket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
A HUGE SUCCESS !
BIRDS
Custard
■SrsTfS
Bird’s
Custard with Srutt
The delicious Fruits of New
South Wales,when stewed, form an
exquisite Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD,
served either hot or cold. Most popular
with Adults and the Youthful alike.
To Users of Acetylene
»>
uw
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (Sb CO. Ltd,
304 PJTT STREET, SYDNEY.
CtJLiA
positive guarantee to cure your rheumatism,
» r\ positive guarantee to cure your
fsciatica or lumbago or to refund your money is
given if you use Wright’s Rheumatic Remedy,
i the celebrated Canadian cure. It costs only 5/6
for one month's treatment, that often cures a severe
1 case. Only a small dose is taken once a day ; and
iit has no disagreeable effect Send to the Onion
Manufacturing Co, 299 Elizabeth Street, Me'-
Lbourne, for particulars and acopy of their guarantee
POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
YOUR MORNING SHAVE
would take only half the time it does now with a PLUM
Razor. It justs skims over the chin quickly, gently, no
pulling—and the result is grand. We guarantee and keep the
blade in working order for two years.
The Finest Razor at the Price, 10/6.
POST FREE ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALASIA.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6 Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/- Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d All the aJhove Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW.
APRIL, 6th to APRIL, 14th, 1909.
£.4500 PRIZES £4500
ENTRIES CLOSE:
SPECIAL CHEESE PRIZES, MARCH 8. WHEAT, MARCH 9,
HORSES - Prizes £1420 - MARCH 10.
CATTLE - Prizes £9OO - MARCH 11.
Sheep, Prizes £2OO, March 11. Pigs, Prizes £l6O, March 11. Poultry, Prizes £4OO, March 12.
Dogs, Prizes £l6O, March 15. Farm Produce, Prizes £750, March 16. Dairy Produce, Prizes
£2OO, March 16. Women’s Industries, March 17. Coachbuilding and Leatherles, March 18.
Miscellaneous, March 18.
PRIZE SCHEDULES & ENTRY EORMS ON APPLICATION.
3 Castlerkagii Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Marcus”: This has the handicap of being a
true story; but it comes in apropos the gullibility of
man, woman and child, as emphasised during the recent
“ clairvoyancy ” cases in Melbourne. A “quack” doctor
practising in Victoria was before the Bench on a
charge of imposition, and was fined heavily. A fellow
graduate, on the rising of the Court, asked him in
astonishment why he hadn’t shown his certificates to the
Bench. “ S’sh, you damn fool,” the “ quack ” whispered ;
“ if people knew I was a qualified medical man, they
wouldn’t come near me again. 1 couldn’t make tucker
when I left the University, so I stuffed my certificates
away, nailed ‘Herbalist’ to the front gate, and now
make a thousand a year comfortably.” He paid the fine
and went on pursuing the comfortable path of wrong-
doing.
* * * *
A company is being formed to make money out
of the Australian shark (marine variety). Large works
will be erected and lots of money spent, provided Wade
will guarantee eighteenpence per shark killed. The co.
proposes to render the sharks down for their oil, make
peggy bags out of their skins, and sell their fins to the
Chinese for dessert. Babbits are being turned into
money, and now sharks. Won’t somebody do something
with Queensland tick ? •
“Shellback” : Lloyd’s Sydney agents have dis-
posed of the wrecked Howard Smith steamer Aeon to
Sydney' buy'ers for the usual few pounds. As it lies
stranded on Christmas Island, a half-way house on the
Sydney-Frisco route, the ship presents an attractive
gamble in the “wrecking” line. The manifest shows
several payable lines in Yankee notions, besides a heap of
other stuff that is practically indestructible by salt
water, even supposing that the ship has become sub-
merged to the ’tween-deck level—which isn’t by any
means certain. The hull was insured for £38,000, and
there was practically the same amount in general cargo
stowed away in the vessel’s innards, to say nothing of a
couple of million feet of Oregon and redwood. Altogether
siie presents one of the most promising salvage proposi-
tions that lias come this way of late, though distance
from a working base is one drawback to a successful haul.
“Via”: The picture-hawking fiend (the sort
that leaves the pictures with the missus for a fortnight,
and then tries to bluff the household that that means a
purchase) met a snag t’other day up North. He left the
three oleographs with the usual tale, “ I’ll call for them
in a week or so,” and then came the bluff. But the
householder had a witness, so when the summon* came
along the fiend was bumped out. But that didn’t end it;
for the householder sued the fiend for storage, 12 weeks
at 3s. per week, and got it!
* * * *
“ J.G.” : About time somebody agitated hard
and often for a Wages Board for Victorian farm workers.
If these Boards are a good thing for city toilers, they
should be as good, or better, for the farm serfs, who cer-
tainly need them more. Some eockies pay £1 a week, or
even more, during the cropping season ; but these more
reasonable men are few and far between, and are not
always whining for Government help, like the bigger,
wealthier land-grabbers who are so blatant about “the
pore farmer.” At harvest time the reasonable cookies will
be found paying from 6s. to 7s. a day and working shorter
hours than their miserable, bigger neighbors, who are
paying from 3s. 6d. to ss. per day'. A Wages Board would
not hurt the reasonable cocky employers, but it would,
or should, touch up the nigger-drivers. And well they
know it, so at election time they' circulate all sorts of lies
about the Labor party and the way it advocates bursting
up homes and everything- else ; and as the unfortunate
toilers who are working for them have no time to read
the papers or think for themselves, they roll up at elec-
tions with the boss and vote with him to keep the home-
smashers out—although they themselves have no homes
to sn. esh, except the cocky’s hen houses, or his cowshed,
or his old reaping-machine.
“Langy ” : Re “W.G-.H.” (B. 4/2/’O9) and his
Westralian curses because the Monkey laundry-man and
Ali Ghunny' Bag, carrier, get the patronage of the white.
“ W.G.H.” can’t be an Australian of many years’standing,
or his surprise would have long ere this dissolved into
callous disgust. Here in this southern Biverina hamlet
there are four vegetable hawkers. Two are Germans, one
a John Bull, and the fourth an Ah Chow. The Kaiser’s
reps, do a little biz. (their customers say r the.y are silly,
poor devils, and you can knock some sport out of them);
the John Bull does less biz. (the people say he is an
avaricious old cow who wants all the trade) ; and Ah Chow
does 79 per cent, of it (all save 21 per cent, of the available
consumers declare he is such a funny fellow, and “ we do
tease him so”). And the Teutons keep on grunting, and
J.B. continues swearing, while Ah C. smiles blandly as he
grows wealthy'. Herein lies one of the reasons of the
aliens’ prosperity in business.
* * * *
A Melbourne man lately got a lesson on the
folly' of sleeping with the mouth open. He was filling in
a lazy afternoon on the beach down Brighton way, and
dozed off for an hour or two. When he awoke he found
that the übiquitous annexer of trifles had removed his
watch and chain from his vest and a set of false teelh
from his countenance. The tired Johns wanted to per-
suade him that he had swallowed the chewers ; but, as
he put it himself, even the sleepiest of the Seven Sleepers
wouldn’t also consume a watch and chain without
presently' becoming aware of the fact.
* ir * *
“.Tanor” : I reeled against what was to me a
brand-new primary industry, last week. It was con-
trolled by Chows. There were three of them, and their
only stocks-in-trade were three ordinary miners’ picks.
Standing in open order on a mountain slope, with these
homely' implements they loosened the shallow loam and
extracted the roots of the native sarsaparilla, which was
growing everywhere around in wild luxuriance. I
learned that the roots were dried and exported to China,
where they' are getting a great vogue as a cure-all; so
much so that they are knocking the stuffing out of the
market for tigers’ bones, gallstones, cats’ eyes and other
venerable and standard remedies. The heathens were
voluble as to the lucrativeness of the industry, but all in-
quiries re the cash value of the product bumped the dead
wall—" No savee.”
* * * *
“ Larrakeyah,” from Port Darwin”: I don’t
want to say anything about the pay' of the lighthouse-
keepers at Point Charles (B. 31/12/’08), but I do want to
have a kick at a foolish notion about the cost of living in
the Northern Territory'. Certainly prices are high in
Port Darwin, but during the last two y'ears I have never
been charged more than 7s. 6d. per 501 b. bag of flour;
meat is 9s. per doz. tins ; butter, Is. Bd. per lb. ; common
soap, Bd. per bar. While not denying that the lighthouse-
keepers’ wages are paltry compared with the responsi-
bility, yet in the northern Territory a man and wife can
live comfortably' on £6O per year. I have tried it, so I
know. : When, as at Point Charles, you grow y’our own
fruit, vegetables, and tobacco, keep your own fowls, and
milk your own goats, it is a comparatively' easy' matter to
make ends meet and tie on £lOO per year, the lowest
wage the lighthouse-keeper gets there. A good board-
ing-school has been established at Port Darwin ; and
that also removes one trouble that settlers have had to
bump against.
THE LOST VALLEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Brown’s report to the Agricultural Department of
the destruction of river flats in the Ovens Valley by gold
dredging* operations, is one of the most important docu-
ments that has come before the public for some years
The smiling farms had vanished. The bed of the rivet-
had been changed, and its erstwhile limpid waters ran
thick and sluggish, charged with poisonous slime and
mud. The wide tracts of rich, arable land on each bank
had been laid waste, and the once fertile cultivation
paddocks had given place to desolate, unpeopled
stretches and interminable heaps of barren stones. —
Melb. Age.
And so, dear friends,
The valley ends,
And the stranger goes with his dividends,
And a desert grieves by the ruined bends !
The Ages wrought with the Sun and the Bain,
And a virgin land dreamt in sunrise dreams
Of deep, whisp’ring armies of ripened grain, ,
On the river flats whence you caught the gleams
Of the snow-fed river that flowed along
To the sea with a rippling mountain song.
The Garden of Time, unto Man bequeathed,
Was fashioned of water, and grass and fern ;
The boles of the trees in their creepers wreathed
Were the forest gods to whom he could turn
When the world went ill ; the generous soil
Gave him promise of plenty for his toil.
But deep in the Garden was hid the gold—
The glittering dross from the distant hills
And the dredgers came and the farmers sold
Th’ enchanted Garden, its ferns and rills !
Oh, but there was laughter among the gods
When the spoiler bought from the greedy clods !
Time and his good workmen, the Bain and Sun,
Must toil on unceasing at this dead place ;
But ere the great venture hath well begun,
We shall look witli our children in God’s face,
And the souls of their children—dead and gone—
Shall whisper the Message : “ The Work goes on /”
N.S.W.
ALLUVIAL.


Franco-British Exhibition,
London, 1908.
The Grandest Show the World has Seen.
ALL RECORDS BROKEN.
GRAND PRIX for Tonal Qualities and General Excellence®
DIPLOME d’HONNEUR, Iron and Steel Work.
GOLD MEDAL, Excellence of Cabinet Work,
GOLD MEDAL, Factory Organisation.
SILVER MEDAL, Brass and Bronze Work.
FOUR SEPARATE JURIES AND THE GRAND JURY.
The leading violin expert of Europe and two French Piano-Manufacturers
judged Tonal Qualities and Construction. The other Juries judged according to
excellence of work in their separate trades.
These are the HIGHEST AWARDS EVER GAINED by any PIANO
at any INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
nnssrangaiiji.—mimiu, r mm __ aj _
A large number of competitors exhibited. Commendations were showered
upon us in London by eminent players and composers, including the accompanist
to Madame Adelina Patti, Mr. Wilhelm Ganz, and other experts. Specimens
were purchased for leading French and English hotels, including the newest and
largest hotel of London—the Strand Palace Hotel. Consult us about your old
piano and instal the Beale Piano to the joy of your household.
Eleven Thousand Beale Pianos are now in use.
Direct from factory to family.
Cash or Easy Terms. Guaranteed for 25 years.
Catalogues by Post.
[j From the London Musical Courier,
November 21, 1908. ]
Messrs. Beale and Co.
IJ'IIK winning- of the Grand Prix awarded bv tlie Franco-
liritish Exhibition for Pianos reflects' the hig-hest
credit upon Messrs. B ale and Co., of Sydney, Australia.
Every Britisher should feel proud that an Australian firm
should have built up such an extensive and self-contained
piano manufactory so far away from the old-world
centres. Their aim lias obviously been to make hig-h-class
musical instruments, both grands and uprights, aiid that
they have succeeded is proved by the honors thus con-
ferred upon them.
The committee of expert judges recorded their convic-
tion that Messrs. Beale and Oo.’s pianos in tonal qualities
and construction, together with those of the old historic
houses of London and Paris, deserved the highest award
—the Grand Prix.
But Messi-s. Beale & Co., desirous of further upholding
the banner of Australian industries, entered in competi-
tion for invention and factory organisation, for which
they received the goid medal. Another gold medal was
given them in the competition for cabinet work. This is
certainly significant, for in both of these classes they
were brought directly into competition with the French
and the English high-class furniture producers. Their
bronze and brass castings were considered worthy the
silver medal in competition with many of the leading
firms of the world. They were awarded the Diplome
d'Honneur (next to the Grand Prix) for their castings
(made from Australian iron) and for steel work. This we
believe to be a unique record for a piano manufacturer as
embracing the several trades included in the business.
There is a tendency in these days, when the aggregate
output of pianos is annually increasing, to cheapen'the
cost of production wherever possible without sufficiently
adjusting this to the inevitably adverse consequences of
the future. Messrs. Beale and .Co. had the perspicacity to
see that by using the best materials only, and those well
conditioned, combined with the most approved method
of construction, they could build up a great and endur-
ing business. Their success has been exceptional, result-
ing in the erection of one of the largest and best equipped
factories in the British domains, producing 1700 pianos
annually.
The very heart of the Beale piano, the iron and steel
tuning system, is the firm’s own original invention. In
this the iron wrest-plank forms an integral part of the
frame, thus securing absolute rigidity, a greater length
of string, and higher tension than is possible with the
wooden wrest-plank. It is claimed that the strino- will
remain permanently at the desired pitch.
The sounding hoards are made of timber devoid of
resin, with no tendency to expand or contract from heat
or cold. They are, further, made impervious to moisture
by a specially prepared coating (invented by the firm),
which acts as the varnish used by the old violin makers
in giving added resonance. The firm claims that these
sounding boards may be immersed in water for 24 hours
and allowed to dry in.the sun without affecting them in
the least. The glue used is a new odorless preparation
made in Australia for the firm, from cuttings of hides
only. It is found to be far superior to the glue in general
use.
The other portions of the pianos are prepared with the
same care, and it must be obvious that Messrs. Beale and
Oo.’s pianos are specially adapted to withstand the most
trying atmospheric conditions. For example, the climate
of Western Australia and the Soudan are noted for their
extreme dryness, and Fiji and Madras for their extreme
moisture. These adverse conditions have been success-
fully met and provided for by the company in their
extensive business throughout Australasia. ‘ We have
inspected these pianos and the indispensable requisites
enumerated above. Many thousands have examined
their original construction, and expressed delight with the
tone qualities and general appearance of durability of
these instruments during the Franco-British Exhibition
<\LE <a CO. Ltd
©
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tlie 0.P.0.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 'Swanstoni Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 H.*y Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next Q.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
a a,lt i at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory! to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Shall we mail you a copy ? It contains over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks, jewellery, S.lverplate, Leather, and Optical
Goods, and is yours for the asking. Write for it now, even if you are not buying for some time to come. Wi . you
CAN BUY IN PERFECT SAFETY through our UP-TO-DATE MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Bird and Spray
Heart CHARM,
7/«
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold CROSS, set Fine Pearls,
25
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
21/-
15ct. Gold, 40/; Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire,
£4/10/
All Diamonds, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
White Pearls,
£4-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open-face, Keyless
WATCHES, Short-wind, stem set, per-
fectly .regulated, - -
10/
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
OPEN-
FACE,
10/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamonds and
or Sapphires, with Safety Chain,
£3/10/-
m.
p ■ 1
009
»OOw
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, 2-Bar “Dinna Forget” BROOCH,
Garnet centre,
, 10/6
Other styles, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
CHARM
Amethyst
Thistle,
12
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set Fine
Pearls and Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
12/0
15ct. Gold, 25/; Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold, set 0->al,
Ruby, or Sapphire,
17/0
15ct. Gold, 30/; 18ct.
Gold, £2.
ewQ
9ct. Gold, Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, with Safety Chain attached,
Larger, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/. Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/, 60/, 70/, 80/.
9et. Gold Signet RING,
20/. 15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, Fine Pearls and Tourmaline
or Peridot.
£2
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold “Lily of the Valley” Spray BROOCH, Be.
Fine White Pearls,
£4-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold NECKLET and PEN-
DANT, set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst, £4-
loct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Five Pure Golden Sapphires,
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOOH, set fine Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2/10/-
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting, Keyless
WATCHES, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly
Adjusted, __
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/. 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £B/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3,
and 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH, set Fine
Pearls and Opal Body,
£4.
All Pearls, £5,
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Fine Golden Sap-
phire, £3, £4, £5
according to size
of stone.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine Dia-
monds and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5-
Diamonds and Emeralds,
£l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
Green or Golden Sapphires, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BAMBOO BRACELET,, Half-chased, with
Safety Chain attached,
£3/15/- 00/c ,
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/.
A. SAUjnDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds,
and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£l5- „ ,
All Diamonds, £27/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine,
Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
£3-
For Pierced or Unpierced Ears.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
SOLID
GOLD,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct. Gold, Hunting, Keyless
Waltham LEVER, f-plate, fully jewel-
led, compensation balance, perfectly
adjusted, extra heavy case, hand-
engraved,
£l2/10/-
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in Free Repair for 6 Years.
HIGHER
GRADE,
£l5.
fLJO
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls, Ruby,
and Turquoise, or all Pearls,
£3/10/- , ,
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls, £4/10/.
OUR
“UNRI-
VALLED”
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel, Open-face, Keyless WATCHES,
;|-Plate, Shortwind, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Dust and Water Proof Cases,
'2Ol
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/,
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lsct. Gold Scroll BROOCH,
set Pearls and Tourmalines,
or Peridots,
£2-
A.
18at. Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£3/10/-
All Diamonas, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
4.8/10/-
All Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
Fine Pearls and Amethyst,
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine White Pearls and Tour-
malines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDRRS.
18ct. Gold, Clus-
ter RING, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£lO
Emeraici Centre,
£l2/10/.
SOLID
Silver,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver, Hunting, Keyless
LEVER, J-plate movement, fully jewelled,
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/,
£lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £l7/10, £2O, to
£75. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, 6, and 7 Y ears.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/.
Our System of Free Car- |
riage on Goods to an;y
part of the Country means
a big saving to you.
A. SAUNDERS.
q p + Gold Double Curb ALBERT, made in our own workshops, £3. Heavier, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/' £7/10/. 15ct. Gold, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. In Solid Silver, 8/6 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 20/. In 14kt Patent Gold-filled, Guaranteed, 20s, 25/, 30/. Any Special Design of Albert to order.
With the exceptions of
Clocks and Chinaware, we
send all Goods Carriage
Free to any part of Aus-
tralasia.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


/
■
5
E
ON
w
SB
me
E
ET
E
err?
s
s
BJi
N\:: •.
<7>r
gplf
— / *
> £
L *
(F
icubms op
li m
POR PVJbD
APPBf A6EIV
ALD PORTvS m
o
KwiiflniuiilllfVJflq
rnimifllHH
» hi 1 1 mu
i mm
\/'
SI
te?
&
n
rr 3
£Xd
O
I©
Son
Wm
nil i


AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
Reduced Specimen Pages from Vol. 11. “ The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide ” (2nd Edition).
1
NEW PRESCRIPTIONS
(Specially Prepared for the SECOND
EDITION of this Work.)
It is particularly requested that those who
make use of these two volumes should care-
fully look through the following prescriptions.
They are to be regarded as supplementary
to those which are elsewhere advised in this
work. These prescriptions are, in almost
every instance, entirely new. They repre-
sent many of the latest remedies which
medical science has discovered for the cure of
the different diseases from which so many
people suffer. In addition to this, it may be
explained that they have been repeatedly
employed with successful results, and can
consequently be confidently recommended.
As will be noticed, also, the following pre-
scriptions are advocated for the relief of many
special conditions. For these reasons,
therefore, they will form a valuable auxiliary
to the other remedies already set forth in
this treatise.
562
EYE DROPS—LINIMENTS OR EMBROCATIONS.
EYE DROPS.
EVE DROPS, No. 1.
The method of instilling drops into the eye (or eyes) by means of an
eye-dropper is fully explained in the concluding portion of the article on
“ Acute Inflammation of the Eye ” on Page 345 in Vol. I. of this work.
This should be perused , consequently , before employing the following.
Boracic Acid
Borax ... ... ... of each I'ive grains
Wine of Opium ... ... ... Two drops
Rose Water to make Two tablespoonfuls
These eye drops can be particularly recommended in acute inflam-
mation of the eye (or eyes), which constitutes the malady so frequently
spoken of, in Australia, as “ the blight.” They will be found, probably,
more efficacious and more soothing than any other application. When
the inflammation of the eye (or eyes) has existed for any considerable
time, and has thereby become chronic, the amount both of the boracic
acid and the borax should be doubled or even trebled ; while the wine
of opium may similarly be increased in strength by one-half—or even
doubled, if necessary.
L
Liniments or Embrocations.
A complete explanation with respect to the use of liniments or embro-
cations is given under the heading of “ Liniments or Embrocations ” on
Pages 455 and 456 in Vol. 11. of this ivork. It should be carefully
read before employing any of the following.
LINIMENT, No. 15.
Oil of Eucalyptus ... ... ... One teaspoonful
Compound Liniment of Camphor
Liniment of Chloroform of each Three teaspoonfuls
Liniment of Camphor to make Lour tablespoonfuls
This is a most valuable liniment in affections of the chest,
such as bronchial catarrh, bronchitis, and colds and coughs
connected with the chest. It can be particularly recommended in all
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
Free for
60 SHILLINGS
IN THE BUSH THESE BOOKS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MIICH SUFFERING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
To the Manager,
THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Please forward me the folio-wing Medical
Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide, 2 Vols. ... £3
The Attainment of Health ... ... ... ... ... O
The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants ... O
Postage ... ... O
3 O
10 6
2 6
5 O
£4 10
I remit herewith Sixty Shillings, for which you- undertake to forward the above works complete , carefully packed ,
and post free. I am, yours etc.,
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name
A ddress


THE
Mutual Life 8 Citizens’ Assurance Company,
Limited
LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE CO-OPERATIVE PLAN.
..d ys.’s.-.r,"'
rate of expense not exceeding 15 per cent, of the income thereo .
GUARANTEES.
The M.L.C. guarantees in its Ordinary Branch that:—
The expense rate shall not exceed 15 per cent, ot the income. (Last year the expense rate was only 10 per cent,
of the premiums.) . '
The using thf Institute ‘ of" TaWe and the Government
Annuitants’ hxperience (1888) Table of Mortality for the Annul les. . .
The values allowed on surrender of policy shall at no time be less than those brought out by a de mte asis o
calculation stated in the policy. . _ ..
The Tree Policy which the assured may obtain as an alternative to surrender value shall be lor a definite sum
assured, named, or calculated on a definite basis set tortk in the policy.
GENERAL BALANCE SHEET.
Dr.
As at 31st December, 1908.
Cr.
Liabilities.
£ s - d -
Shareholders’ Capital (Paid-up) ...
Do. do. Paid in Advance of
Calls
Assurance Punds ...
Policyholders’ Bonus Reserve Funds
Premiums in Suspense ...
Claims intimated, but not yet paid*
Sundry Creditors
London and Westminster Bank, Ltd. ...
£
20,000
20,007
s. d.
0 0
0 0
40,007 0 0
4,399,486 17
10,000 0
4,409,486 17
2,555 1 a
25,582 5
19,876 14
56,469 11
9
2
10
5
1
553,978 2 3
*lncluded in corresponding' items in the Revenue Account.
tThe Company has no Foreclosures, nor has any of its Mortgages rallen into possession.
Assets.
£ * d.
Leasehold do.
Office Furniture and Fittings ...
Outstanding Premiums on Policies in Force
Deferred instalments of Annual Premiums
Interest Outstanding ... ... •••
Interest Accrued ... •••
Agents’ Balances
Sundry Debtors...
Cash in Bank
2,361,084 9 9
1,843,317 11 8
226,214 1 0
1,218 2 0
1,000 0 0
45,353 1 4
Nil
459 16 5
49,958 8 0
3,588 1 2
11,563 3 9
10,221 7 2
2 3
H. N. MACLAURIN'
FRANK COFFEE
W. P. MANNING
HY. GULLETT
B. R. GELLING
W. J. LYNE '
Directors.
HIST J. GARVAN,
Managing Director.
ARTHUR M. EEDY,
General Secretary.
We certify that we have attended from time to time at the Offices of the Company and have audited the Accounts for the year ended 31st December, 1908. We have
obtained all the information and explanations we required.
We have examined the Books, Accounts, and Vouchers, and certify that the Revenue Accounts and Balance-Sheet are made up in accordance therewith, and are
correctly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and proper statement of the Company’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations given us.
We have verified the balances at the Company’s Bankers.
We have examined the securities for the whole of the Company's Loans and Investments, and have found them in order. Certificates were produced to us for the
securities denosited with the Governments of Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, hew Zealand and the United Kingdom, m terms of the
nrovisions of the Life Assurance Acts in force, and further Securities not held at the Head Office.
provisions ot the Bite Assuiance , KENT, BRIERLEY & SULLY, AUDITORS.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
Fo NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Galling at. Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 t.o £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THK WORLD TICK MTS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c.., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Fund's, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £3,2,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDMEY.
Directors:
The Hol, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.G., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE. EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,488,590 12 6
Reserve Fund 1,260,000 0 Q
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 U
£4.248,590 12 6
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Coiien, Esq Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C, E. VV. Knox, Esq.
A. J. Onsl@W Thompson, Esq.
Auditors : F. IV. Hixson, Esq. ; W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. "Massif..
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soijtar.
Accountant: W. It. Sayers.
Branch Accountant J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
H. H. Massie, W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; lion. 11. S. Littleton.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFi.CE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &/0. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
Rates Very Low.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
$
&
0
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.V\7.
(HoßtdePietea.^|.C«.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEAGH Sr., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EI,'.STACK JIEXN'IOTr, General .Manager.
ON THE HOP Cheap Edition Now On
Sale— 2/6; Postage, N.S. W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
snipping.
N ord D eutscher Lloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
lank of f|eui lea land.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital ■ £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504.097
CRAMTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. In Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gib.bs, Briffht''& Co.); J. Campbkll-M£ooi>, Esq. ;
W. 0. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 20.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
April 8.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. ~ 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, &c. 2d 5 0 to 36 o 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamvhlets, Timetables, and all other Ivy ovulation
on Armlication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
JJuUjety and Compani/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€H LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and.
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTIIE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or-Durban .. From £3l 10s,. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 30s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only,on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
* holipay
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.*
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Comniissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending
the important features being :
settlers on the land, a few of
(а) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(б) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest anti principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on anyjnstaiment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Crant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMEKT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates pf interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Banking,
Bank of ||eui South Dales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. 0. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLa'urin, Kt., H.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
ad t • * William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors. j Shepiibard Edgecltff Laidley, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in ,all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,550,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,750,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Hotels, &c.
Grosvenor
Motel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cosy and Elegant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day ; Etgom and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., 8,00 Central, 800 City.
Hal
ffl fl
SSBEE
GEORGE HOTEL
>St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
■ Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping" at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yong-ala, March 12.
S.S. Grantala, March 27.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamincka, March ]3
S.S. Yongala, March 20.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Gold fields.
Saloon Passag-e Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Aarents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH'LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 6.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, March 13.
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers -
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoftn, and all
other W.A. ports.) „
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, March 13.
BRISBANE 't
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER RpRTS
BUNINYONG, 2 p.m., SATUR.
DAY, March 6.
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 13.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSmUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IiEL) ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
£3T ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LT3.
Managing Agents, George-streeo, Sydney.
F.—H.—s.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET."
11,300 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - 6th March
„ „ „ SYDNEY - 12th March
~ ~ HOBART - 17th March
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 22nd March
„ „ „ ADELAIDE - 27th March
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, coriiprised„of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber througlput the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
nvEKPOOL d [ £49 10s ' £IS 13s ’ £l5 15s ' £l7 17s '
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & 00., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
R. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & C<>, Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors : F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas-Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
TERMS ARRANGED.
SMALL DEPOSIT. BALANCE WEEKLY.
"|7 VERY Description of Business for Sale. Partner-
ships Arranged. Genuine Businesses and
Partnerships Wanted. Loans Negotiated. Farms,
etc., for Sale.
WRICHT, 441 Colons Street, MELBOURNE.
‘DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Way back Book you are bound to read, 1s


’^S/S/jf#pfo%
#ss/>yjr*j'i6ZsWl
WL
m.
V. - -
TRENCH’S REMEDY FOR FITS AND EPILEPSY
CURES THE SEVEREST AND LONC-STANDINC CASES
Six Weeks’Trial Treatment, Only FIFTEEN SHILLINGS, Carriage Paid
THIHTY TO FIFTY The Rev. D. B. Blackwood, M.A.,
FITS IN A DAY Th.L., Vicar of St. Helens, Tasmania,
wrote: —“I can honestly say that I recommend anyone
suffering from Epileptic Fits to give Trench’s Remedy a
trial. It is from personal acquaintance with one who
was cured that I say so. She was a girl nine years
of age. Her father told me she would nave as many as thirty
to fifty fits in a day. After she to ok the Remedy she never
had one, and I saw her for over a year after at intervals. So
far as I could see it seemed a wonderful and complete cure.”
His Grace Archbishop Can and Clergymen of all Denominations personally recommend Trencnpwflßeniedy.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St^^^elbourne
VALUABLE BOOKLET
POST FREE
Send for it
at once
Delay
Dangerous
Missing Friends.
TTAMILTON J. OLSEN, Hazlton. Satis-
factory news for you upon communication
with Frank.
MoILROY. v
TNFORMATION wanted by his nephew (.T.
M. GORE, P.O. Box 15, Seattle, Washing-
ton, U.S.A.) of JOSEPH McILROY, of Co.
Antrim, Ireland, who settled in Ballarat (Vic.)
about 50 years ago.
Publications.
“OLD COUNTRY” BOOKS.
COUNTY HISTORIES OF SCOTLAND: Aberdeen
and Banff, by Wm. Watt; Inverness, by J.
Cameron Lees ; Dumfries and Galloway, by
Sir Herbert Maxwell; Moray and Nairn, by
Chas. Rampini. Limited Eds. all 30/=, or 16/6 each.
The Fiddler of Carne (A Romance), by E. Rhys 6/=
The Shadow of Arvor, Breton Legendary,
Romances .. .. .. .. .. 6/=
The Old Highlands, Intro, by Neil Munro 7/6
Gaelic Fairy Tales (with trans.), illus. .. .. 2 /-
Mackenzie s Hlsty. of the Mackenzies (scarce) 25/-
Neil Macleod’s “ Clarsach an Doire,” 4th Ed... 4/6
Murdo Macleod’s Spiritual Hymns (in Gaelic).. 2/6
The Celtic Review, published quarterly, 8/= per annum.
All Post Free. Catalogues on Application.
NORMAN MACLEOD
(Publisher),
25 GEORGE IV. BRIDGE, EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
LAUGHTER IS BETTER THAN MEDICINE.
FUNNY STORIES.—NOS. 1 & 3 COMBINED.
A good hearty laugh will do you more good than any
doctor’s prescription. Here we offer you 100 and more
good laughs in the shape of Funny Stories, Jokelets,
Conundrums, by all the popu-
lar favorites including Harry
Phydora, Will Whitburn,
Fred Graham, Bert Bailey,
Little Tich, James Beil,
Charles Sweet, etc.; laugh-
able Irish stories, funny Jew
yarns, sweetheart jokes, toasts
for all sorts of occasions,
comic recitations, negro
stories, comic doctor’s pre-
scriptions, funeral stories,
school yarns, lawyer yarns,
after-dinner speeches, end-
man’s jokes—Bo pages just
crammed with good things.
For a small price you can ob-
tain enough material to amuse
yourself and friends for many
an evening ; if you want to put on a minstrel or vaude-
ville show you will find here an abundance of good
material. All the stories and jokes are sure fire hits. They
have all been tried and proved by leading performers at
the various theatres. You cannot afford to be without
this book. Don’t forget the titIe—FUNNY STORIES,
Nos. 1& 3 COMBINED. Every bookseller and newsagent
in Australia has it in stock. If yours has sold out send us
Is. 2d. in stamps, when we will post the book direct to you.
ALLAN & CO., 276-278 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
m
FunnvStories.
JOKES.
Humorous Recitations
ScreamincMonqiogues
8 i
“Exchange”
Virginia
Cigarettes.
Plain, 50 2/6
„ 100 4/6
Tipped, 60 2/9
„ 100 5/-
A Popular
oiga r e 11 e,
Mild and Cool,
made express-
ly for us in
London.
398 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Missing' Friends.
ANYBODY knowing the whereabouts of
EDWARD JOHN and THOMAS WIL-
LIAM DIXON, sons of E. J. DIXON, who
left Australia about 1863-64, and was engaged in
railway construction under Messrs. Cornish and
Bruce while in Australia, please communicate
with
ALBERT V. DIXON,
Wentworth Street, Nanaimo,
British Columbia, Canada.
A FOUNTAIN PEN FOR '*/. msT “ U D LMLUE Era
Guaranteed Absolutely Reliable. a GENUINE FOUNTAIN PEN. Not a Toy.
OLC LUH
SPECIAL
HAVING just received a large shipment of splendid FOUNTAIN PENS, we In ve decided to silHihJm at
11 cost price m order to secure iresti customers for our various other goods. The Fountain Pen we offer is not a
icy. We guarantee it to be effective as any higher-priced Fountain Pen on the market. It will hold sufficient ink
to last lor a month. WILL NOT LEAK, very free and regular flow of ink, aud does net corrode the nib
Beautifully finished, and at the ndicu ously low pnee, is positive.y the best bargain ev. r placed before you Wriie
straight away and secure one. Tho price is ONLY til. complete, postage pi. extra.
FPFF An )'°. no ordering ““t less than a half-dozen we will give one of our Nickel Combination Outfits.
1 consisting of Pen, Telescopic Pencil and Folding Rubber Stamp with your name, with Self-inkina
Pad, complete. Ordered separate ly the price is Is. Gd., or we will iorward a Fountain Pen and this Outfit to any
address lor “Js. “jCd. post ire . *
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE “NUGGET” POLISHES
DOUBLE THE LIFE OF YOUR BOOTS,
AND ARE NOW
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
By Australian Labor.
HEN DON’T
TAKE SKVGS!
W 1
'HY don’t you stop it? Yon are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the mpdern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity! This is the electric age. You can see’on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only bo
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble.
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning 1 or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
V
tec£>
=C
%
'/s
Vi
$
£,500 REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit £5OO to anyone proving
the contrary.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND TH/S COUPON
with your
name and full postal address clearly written in, and
wo will send you post
paid a copy of our new
10 0-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co. f Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
CFFI.E HOURS: 0 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
josepii n. conconAN
THE McLAUGHUN CO., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Fees Illusteated Book.
Name....
Address
BRONCHITI
The Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Couffii, Croup
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and’to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allayino- Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become^ chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient and a complete
cure is certain. ’ 1
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, V/. G. HEARNE.
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


IN
BANANAN LAND.
His mime was Mudd, but now it’s Meadows.
Walter John Mudd, of New Farm (Brisbane),
gave notice, the other day, that he had changed
his name.
“Old Sub”: If that Mackay co. (B. 11/2/’O9)
figures on Queensland consuming 30,000 -tons of
salt a year, it will be a very disappointed co. be-
fore long. Maoriland, with a much larger popu-
lation, takes only 8000 tons ; in N.S.W. the con-
sumption is no more than 18,000 tons ; and I esti-
mate that Queensland’s total doesn’t exceed 0000
tons.
Among Australian women-doctors the lady
who is the solitary sawbones at Toogoolawah (Q.)
has about the best chance of a varied practice.
Toogoolawah used to be a very quiet little town-
ship ; but lately the Government started the
Kannangur-Blackbutt railway line, and now the
doctoress has anything up to 250 navvies to look
after besides her own little bush lot. And the
number of things, plain and colored, spotted and
striped, that 250 navvies can suffer from would
fill an extra-large case-book.
Over 200 Chinese from various parts of
Australia—mostly from the North Queensland
end—left for China by the steamer Empire the
other day. Twenty-eight who joined the boat at
Townsville took, besides bank drafts, over £lOOO
in sovereigns. A local photographer was kept
busy asking Ah Sing Long to look pleasant, as,
before they left, the Minister for Customs pressed
them all for their photos, in case later on a new
Ah Sing should declare that he was the old Sing
Long. The photos are taken in two positions ;
one showing a full face, while the other records
Celestial beauty in profile.
Geraldton (N. Q.) reckons itself the dampest
place in Australia. Several times during Janu-
ary the local resident remarked that “it looked
like rain,” and once or twice the local cane-grower
thought he noticed a shower. At the end of the
month the tally was made up —lyd. Ift. of
wetness. Geraldton’s favorite jest is that it rains
for nine months, and then the wet season sets in.
Still, one remarkable thing about the township
itself is that, two hours after a foot or so of rain
has tumbled down, there is scarcely any moisture
to be seen—it gets away underground nearly as
fast as it arrives at the surface.
“Boro Belle”: The Q. aboriginal isn’t
always a loafing degenerate. Near Mackay there
is an energetic nig. settlement which puts in its
time gathering scrubwood, prop-sticks, orchids.
Queensland (matchbox) beans, ’possum skins and
crabs for subsequent sale in the town. Also, the
dusky ones.trap “ gohannas,” and sell them to the
Chows, who turn their fat into alleged medicine.
The older darkies are open to take on a day’s
wood-chopping any time! The coal-black Marys
are open to take on any quantity of washing (and
herein they are superior to the Jap laundryman),
but they won’t go anywhere unless accompanied
by their dogs, and this is just where the ordinary
housewife gathers up her skirts and draws the
vermin line.
The two recently-imported automatic
water-finders are worrying the Queensland Lands
Department into a shiny baldness. The needle
wobbles about according to specifications, but no
one knows what the wobbles mean, and conse-
quently the “ finders” are just about as useful to
people looking for water underground as a compass
would be'to a whale that had lost its bearings.
One officer reckoned that he had worried out the
secret; but when he began to put his ideas into
practice the needle promptly developed the habit
of pointing in about five different ways on the one
spot. Now there is talk of importing someone
who understands the water-finder’s little ways;
and, as Kidston is subject to the importing craze
these times, even that absurdity isn’t unlikely.
Cairns held its breath the other day—
several days, in fact —in rapturous anticipation of
a tidal wave of cheap beer. Bung collectively
reckoned that its sausage supply was costing too
much, wherefore it proposed to call for tenders
for two years. Then, while every dog in the
place began to move around furtively, the butchers
collogued, and sent an intimation to Bung that if
the wicked object was persisted in, the established
sellers of dead cow would cut into the public-
house trade, by taking on the lease of a pub. and
reducing the price of drinks to threepence. At
that point the beer-trade thought better of it, the
idea of contract sausages was given a quiet burial,
and the Cairns dog ’resumed his cheerful habit.
L. G. Brown, a youthful assistant-master
at Ipswich Grammar School, is the Queensland
Rhodes scholar for 1909. Young Brown, who has
battled through on scholarships most of his life,
really is—unlike most Rhodes scholars—some-
thing extra in the way of an athlete. Last year
he played football for Queensland against N.S.W.
and the Anglo-Welsh team, and was also selected
to row for Queensland in the inter-State eights.
In 1906 he won the junior gymnastic champion-
ship of Queensland, and later on defeated the
senior champion of that year. He was a member
of the Brisbane Grammar School rifle team which
in 1905 was second among the schools of the Em-
pire in the Empire Cadet match, in 1906 was first
among Australasian schools, and in 1907 was first
of the whole Empire crowd. And, though he
isn’t quite as fast as Beaurepaire in the water, he
could give G. Reid’s dog 100yds. in a quarter-mile
and beat him.
W. J. Munro, of Cairns, the man who has
more irons in the fire than anybody else in North
Queensland, and manages to keep them all from
burning, is now going to give his moral support
to the truculent banana. The business used to
flourish at the back of Cairns ; but between the
Chow ring and the shipping ring, and the desire
of Sing Long to get all he can out of the
banana land in the quickest and cheapest way,
the banana is now a very sick vegetable in
the Far North. Therefore Munro proposes
that the Mulgrave tramway (of which he is
boss Commissioner) should greatly reduce
freights for a stated term of years, pro-
vided the shipping cos. follow suit. At the
same time, the Commonwealth Government
should, he reckons, smash the Chow ring by
differentiating in some way between white- and
yellow-grown bananas. The northern white has
a grievance against Victoria in particular:
that State actually encourages the black-grown
banana by subsidising the steamers in the Fiji
trade. This little caper effectively defeats the
protective duty on imported fruit—which is a
lovely thing for what is supposed to be the most
whole-heartedly Protectionist State in the Com-
monwealth to be guilty of.
“ Myrtle ” : Ah Sin is most tolerated in
some of those Queensland towns where, by rights,
he ought to be tolerated least. Mt. Morgan, for
instance, is the home of white wage-workers ;
nobody who isn’t a wage-worker, and mostly a
manual wage-worker, would dream of living in
Mt. Morgan unless he had eaten something that
disagreed with him horribly. Nevertheless, Ah
Sin is a person of considerable consequence in Mt.
Morgan. The big drought (1900-’O2), when work
was scarce, opened the gate wide for the alien ele-
ment in this and other Queensland towns, and the
pigtail rushed the chance. The Chow population
in Mt. Morgan doubled itself. The large “white”
shops got tired of giving credit to out-of-work
men, or their own credit ran out; anyway, they
closed their books wholesale. The wily Chow
smiled, opened his books, and gave whips of credit.
Things righted themselves when the drought
passed, and now Ah Chow flourishes mightily.
But he isn’t the same old credit-giving, appa-
rently indifferent, yellow smiler. Schooled into
the use of the “bit of blue paper,” he now issues
summons galore, and almost every week Mt.
Morgan can see white men in constant work sued
by Chinamen for money due for the food that
they feed their Australian children with. It all
makes a White Australian very sad—it looks as
though a good part of the population can’t even
see the evil when the smell of it is at the door.
“ T.E.D.” : Here in Queensland the
Government allows the selector of re-purcliased-
estate land five years before the first of the annual
instalments becomes due —a wise plan and a merci-
ful, seeing the poor selector will in many cases
take all that time to* collect a year’s rent (God
DECEIVING HIS INNARDS.
“ The doctor said you were not to touch spirits.”
“ Can’t you see I’m pouring it into the medicine-measure first! How will they know?”
help him and me when the seventh year is running
out !). But what an opportunity for the specu-
lator ! He parts up a small deposit, and spends
possibly £2O on fencing ; then he leases his hold-
ing for grazing purposes, receives the rent for 4g
years, while the value of the block is being forced
up by the hundreds of land chasers who are
pouring into Queensland. After that he shakes
himself up and offers this “splendidly grassed
and timbered farm, in the prosperous dairying
district of , well-adapted for lucerne-growing,
pig-raising, etc., etc., etc. —only £6 per acre.”
And sorpe poor cocky binds himself to carry on,
with a mortgage to Isaac Moses, and instalments
on the purchase money just falling due. The
cutting up of large estates and closer settlement
are matters of vast importance to Australia, and
yet one is fairly safe in asserting that 50 per cent,
of the repurchased land is allotted either to men
who already hold a sufficient slice, and yet are
allowed to gradually build up estates that will
require subdivision within a fevy years, or to
speculators. ’ The boria-Jides of applicants should
be more thoroughly inquired into; and a much
stricter supervision exercised over transfers.
“ Boro-Belle ” dodges from one alligator to
another:—
An old aboriginal had a close call on the Burdekin
the other day. He was fishing' in Klondyke Lagoon,
standing about 2ft. hack from the water’s edge, when an
alligator’s snout shoved itself out of the muddy stream,
and not a second later a startled nig Was being dragged
into deep water, the’gator having gripped him'by the
foot. He was pulled 20ft. away from the bank, and
twice was yanked under water. But the old chap
put up a wonderful fight, striking at his thick-coated
enemy and gouging at his eyes. Whether the ’gator
became scared at the shrieking of the nigs on the bank,
or whether he thought he’d struck .Tack Johnson, isn’t
known for certain ; anyhow, he let go the nig, wlio made
a dash for the shore, where he was met by a big deputa-
tion of joyful ahos. Later on, the whole Lagoon
tribe, including dogs, laid their wounded member
on a local doctor’s doorstep. The foot was fright-
fully lacerated, and may have to come off. A
Jap fisherman on the Johnstone River, a while back,
had worse luck than that. He and another were net-
fishing one night, when a ’gator collared him. Two days
later his armless body was found in the river. The ’gator
evidently didn’t like the meat. The other Japs held a
sort of wake. The liquid refreshments consisted of beer
and whisky, and towards midnight the bottles got mixed.
About this stage, one Jap, who had had a grudge against
his defunct countryman, gave the dead body a kick. He
was promptly struck on the head with a bottle, whereupon
he just as promptly died. The Law stepped in and took;
a hand, an arrest followed, but the bottle-shier eventually
got off. To get back to alligators. Some five or six years
ago a North Queensland shipping agent, whose office
is almost lined and ceiled with alligator-skins,
shot seven of the brutes near Proserpine. The
skin of the largest—a 25-footer—was sent south,
where it was tanned a beautiful glossy black.
Three others were tanned locally with mangrove bark.
Within three years the skin that was tanned in the south
rotted away, and had to be destroyed, while the man-
grove bark-tanned skin is as good as new.
The wandering “ Vigilans” :
The railway to Nanango has opened up one of the finest
agricultural areas in Queensland. The land at Kingaroy
is a rich chocolate loam, in some places 30ft. deep. J-his
soil has produced as much as 30 tons of potatoes to the
acre as »-ood as either Mt. Gambier or “ Western Dis-
trict ” spuds. Maize also thrives. For the present, there
is a handy market at Gympie, Maryborough and Bunda-
berg; but these will soon be glutted. Paspaluui is taking
the place of the native grasses, and dairying is a coming
big industry. Land in and around Kingaroy is being
rushed. A man bought at 15s. per acre five years ago,
and sold this week for £9 10s.
The last remark makes this paper sad. Ihe land
won’t grow a single spud more now that it has
jumped from 15s. to £9 10s. an acre ; yet, in order
to make a living; the holder has to grow 14 spuds
where it was only necessary to grow one before.
If the original inan borrowed the 15s. —as most
likely he did—there was one spud for himself and
one for the mortgagee ; under the new conditions
there is one for himself and. there must be 14
for the mortgagee. The man who pouches
the difference between the 15s. and the
£9 10s. probably didn’t add tuppence to the
extra value; nevertheless he pulls out —
and no doubt a few more are waiting till they can
get £lO, when they will pull out too. About that
time the men who are struggling to pay interest
on the unnecessary £8 or £9 an acre will demand
cheaper rail freights from the Government, and
a few other concessions—the land speculator has
got so many concessions from them that they will be
driven to get concessions from somebody else ; and
the State is always a handy “ mark ” when con-
cessions are wanted. If there were a decent land-
value tax in existence, there wouldn’t be these
outrageous jumps from 15s. to £9 10s., and the
man who really wants to make a living from the
land would be the gainer by it every time. The
only people it would hit hard are those who want
to make a rise by getting off the land ; and they
are not worth considering.
“ Rastus ” : The Curse of the Chow lies
heavily on North Queensland. Entering the
salubrious tableland town of Atherton by rail,
the miles of Chinese-leased farms that stretch
away on either side of the line give the place the
appearance of a province in Southern China.
The tired white land-owners find it more profit-
able or less arduous to lease their property to
Ah Wong than to cultivate it themselves. But,
now that the corn and maize markets of the North
have naturally passed into the hands of the guile-
less Chow, the general run of white people
are getting sorry. The fact that is alarming
Northerners most, however, is that, although the
number of Chinese who arrive by sea from
other parts of Australia is comparatively
small, yet where one Ah Wing flourished a
few years ago, there are two or three of
him now. Newchum Chows who cannot speak
a word of English are continually appearing
on the Atherton tableland, and it seems fairly
certain that they have landed surreptitiously on
the coast of the Gulf and travelled southwards.
Until the next census is taken, it will be practi-
cally impossible to gauge the increase in the
Chinese population in the North; but when
authoritative figures are available Australians
may at last realise the foolishness of leaving their
northern shores unpatrolled. Lum Chow’s chief
stronghold is at Cairns, which town is blighted
with the “ Oriental magnificence” of his dirt and
filth. The pity of it is that the yellow end of
Cairns is not only a miserable collection of insani-
tary shanties infested by unsavory Wing Chings,
but that it is one of the chief markets in the North.
The fish market for Cairns and the surrounding
districts is there. Quay Hop and his relatives
have the industry wholly in their hands, and have
covered Trinity Inlet with their hideous stake
traps. The corn and maize, which are the chief
agricultural products of the tableland, are de-
spatched to the same quarter, whence the white
people obtain their supplies. The Tory news-
papers and merchants are pro-Chinese ; but they
would probably be that if China invaded and
seized this country—proyijdqd always the coolie
Chows didn’t ask higbeljv .vine's,
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 27, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
During the past week the social whirl has been
chiefly on the'hind-quarter deck of the German
ship Condor. The amiable gentlemen of the
craft were full of enthusiasm, to begin with ; but
as “the glass” showed about 80 degrees of heat
and 100 of moisture during their stay, it kept on
oozing, so to speak. This was most apparent at
the gay little dance arranged for them by their
cheerful Consul Hirschfeld; and although the
guests had to be taken out and wrung at inter-
vals, the fun was kept up long after the next day
had started on its way round the clock. The
Condor men are rather short of English, but they
are stayers in the waltz.
At the tea-fight that they gave to a very
assorted lot of folk on Wednesday, this lack of
language got one gallant tar into serious trouble :
Pretty Girleen : “ Well, good-bye, Lieutenant
Yon Blank, and thank you so much for showing
us everything. But we must go—Mamma wants
to pay a call.”
Yon Blank : “ Oh, yaes; is dat zo ? You go ver’
soon ! ”
P.G. : “Oh, you might get tired of me if I
stayed any longer.”
Von B. : “Oh, yaes ” (broad smile), “ dat iz
assuredly zo.” More smiles, from the Girleen’s
friends this time, as the charmer tossed her head
down the gangway, leaving a perplexed tar with
the smile fading away in a puzzled haze.
Ah, well, they are to hitch on to the bottom of
Sydney Harbor for about two months; so no
doubt Darling Point and Mosman’s will be able
to teach them a thing or two, as they are a fairly
decorative lot, as the race goes, save the Com-
mander, whose name of Alert—or, stay, is it
Ahlert ?—seems about the most misplaced on
record.
No one can accuse the Chelmsford family of
want of determination. Three times now they
have tried to give a garden party at Gabbinbar,
and each time the weather or her Ladyship’s
health has intervened. Nothing daunted, how-
ever, the pasteboards are out for a third attempt,
and there’s luck in odd numbers. After that her
Ladyship will begin to pack up her traps.
Amid the recent outburst of teas, the Anglican
Archbishop has been taking a cup and saucer with
a view, to the: steadying-down of . the “future
mothers of the State.” There was a bang-tail
muster of about 32 of the most attractive at the
Slade Villa on Thursday, and between the out-
pourings of a deafening thunderstorm and the
Slade teapot the Archgaiters spoke gently but
firmly upon various things, including the impro-
priety of small girls pulling up their stockings in
the street, and the evils of not moving the
young men of their acquaintance to nobler
■things. On the whole, however, he let them
down lightly. Nevertheless, as the future leaders
iof society, he implored them to shun the kitchen
lancers, the pyjama party; and the high-kicking
show as a pestilence. They were, in short, to be
good, but not too good, lest the lads should sus-
pect, the 'reform business ere they could lay hands
upon them.
Brisbane’s Mayoress, who has been laid low with
an attack’ one-part quinsy and three-parts anxiety,
is herself again, and is making ready to take up
her duties, the.first of which will probably be the
steering of a boat at the local Henley. The baby
boy is also repaired.
Miss Lizzie Heal, a much-advertised young per-
son, has returned from a jaunt in the land of the
Yank, where they charge you £2 10s. a day and
extras at a modest hotel. The surplus revenue,
she thinks, must be used on streets, which
are, on the whole, the cleanest things of the kind
she ever remembers tripping along. Miss Lizzie
had the time of her life musically, as both Caruso
and Tetrazzini were in full warble. Regarding
mere clothes, she has a firm conviction that, what-
ever the worth may be of brother Jonathan, sister
J. is dearer still as regards the building of two and
three-piece suits. The wedding belonging to the
trousseau (which isn’t yet unpacked) will eventuate
about a month or six weeks hence; the happy
man is the genial George Warry, yachtsman,
theatregoer, and good sport.
The latest victim of the barb is Dr. Mabel
Crutchfield, of the cheerful city of Boulia. in the
Never-Never, who has said she will to Mr. T.
Neylan, of the electric telegraph staff.
Deadwood Dick sent up a rocket the other day
at Wellshot, near Toowoomba, when a youth
placed a cwt. of stone and a few billets of wood
upon the line in front of the mail train. Fortu-
nately. the driver was able to pull up before the
real effect was realised, or there might have been
a second Millbrook. As it was, a search party
picked up the tracks of bare feet, and later on dis-
covered Deadwood Dick, the younger, somewhat
crestfallen at the lack of blood.
Touching the remarkable interest that is being
taken here in the pure-milk crusade, the only
horse that has bolted in a Brisbane milk cart for
years made a bee line the other morning for the
Government House front steps, and had to be
scraped off the gravel. As her Firmness is
Patroness of Pure Milk, it is presumed that the
nag got a delusion that he was dragging some-
thing that a self-respecting cow would disown, and
made'haste to deliver it where it would do most
good.
Miss Una Bell and her little brother, from
Cooehin Coochin station, have got on board the
Kumano Maru, and are at this moment bowling
oceanwards. Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Bond, the
latter a daughter of old-man Groom, of Too-
woomba, are likewise off to test the pleasures of
the land of the brown peril. Possibly they may
go on over the Trans-Siberian railway, and take a
look at St. Petersburg ere they face Australia-
wards again.
With the wholesale advent of the British Mary
Ann, the old trouble aboard ship has recom-
menced ; and if there is truth in one-fifteenth of
the allegations of a decent-looking new chum and
his wife, who travelled out with one of the last
batches, there ought to be a searching depart-
mental inquiry, for the behavior of girls, officers
and crew seems to have been lurid enough to set
afire the main brace. We want population here
rio-ht enough, but there is a distinct inclination to
have it born on the right side of the wedding-ring,
if possible.
The sensational divorce that I hinted at some
weeks ago is likely to come to a head in a few days
now, and among its other vivid specialties will be
the wealth of co-re’s.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


QUEENSLAND STATISTICS.
Population
Exports ... ... ... J 214,684,019
Imports ... ... ... £9,429,691
Government Railways ... ... 3,498 miles
Telegraph Lines ... ... ... 10,253 ~
Area under Cultivation ... ... 642,979 acres
Area alienated by Deeds of Grant 14,924,417 ~
Area in process of Alienation ... 4,778,908 ~
Area under Grazing and Scrub
Selection ... ... ... 28,507,953 ~
Area under Occupation License
and Depasturing Right ... 61,265,920 ~
Area under Pastoral Lease 175,128,160 ~
Area of State ... ... 429,120,000 ~
Queensland: The Queen State of
the Commonwealth.
No. IX.
“GO ON THE LAND, YOUNG MAN."
By J. D. FITZGERALD.
Most native-born Australians who have passed
their eighth lustrum can remember the old maps
which were in use in the schools of their boyhood s
days. I wonder whether any of those old maps
are in existence from which I learnt geography at
Fort-street and St. Mary’s Schools, Sydney.
Spread up on the school wall, they had a big-type
inscription-
Map of New Holland.
And most of New Holland on the map was tinted
over with a faint blue color, and was marked
The Great Australian Desert.
I am not sure that a great deal of the space
which the cartographers of those days had cata-
logued as desert lands in Queensland is not now
devoted to smiling wheat fields, prosperous dairy
farms, sheep and cattle stations, helping to fill
the markets of London, New York, and Berlin.
The known parts of “ New Holland” consisted of a
smallfringe of the coastline, spangled with foreign
names, Dutch, Spanish, Portuguese, and French.
If the inquisitive traveller were after deserts to-
day he might leave Australia alone (now that New
Holland has become plain Australia) to try some
cartography in England, Ireland, and Scotland,
or some of the German principalities. He could
write “ The great English, Irish, or Scotch
Desert” over many a fertile square mile, not
desert through barrenness, nor through want of
knowledge or exploration, but because grouse and
FOR THE HUNGRY WORLD'S MARKET.—Sides of prime beef frozen at Lakes Creek (Q.),
for export to the ends of the earth . Photo, by C. E. S. Fiyer.
deer are of greater value than men. Britain
sometimes prefers foxes to farmers ; and wealthy
snobs from abroad, as well as their own native
snobs at home, take from cultivation, and trans-
form to deserts, hundreds of square miles of
magnificent country, capable of supporting thou-
sands of prosperous peasants, and of adding a huge
quota annually to the national wealth. You
could write “Desert” in large type on very big 1 slices
of the maps of the counties or shires of Britain.
Cross over to the continent of Europe, and you
find, in countries like Germany and Austria,
whole territories devoted to deer and other wild
animals in preserves. I saw some of these in the
old principality of Lippe-Detmold, Westphalia,
in which I spent some time in the summer of
1897. Near the town of Detmold is the historic
spot where Arminius, the great Teutonic hero, a
prince of the Cheruskian tribes, while marching
in apparent alliance with the Romans, under the
Consul Yarus, fell upon them in the passes and cut
them to pieces. The incident is remembered his-
torically for the grief of Augustus Csesar at the
news, and his wanderings round the Palace, call-
ing upon Varus to “Give me back my legions !”
To-day the Germans have planted a heroic statue
of Arminius (or Hermann) on the crest of a hill, a
superb figure, with sword drawn and held aloft, the
blade glinting in the sun rays, and visible 60 miles
off. For many miles around'the statue the here-
ditary Prince of Lippe-Detmold has his lands held
from cultivation as deer preserves, where, possibly
once a year, he goes forth to escape ceremonial
boredom, and starts to “hunt” and slaughter the
deer which, by that time, have become, almost tame
from the attentions of,the tourists and townspeople.
It seemed to me that this country—beautifully
undulating country, with high hills here and
there, and splendid timber —would have made
ideal cjkitying country. It was. within a fey'miles
of the teeming populations of the manufacturing
towns, such as Dortmund, Oberhausen, and Biele-
feld, which have grown to populous prosperity
since the Protectionist policy of Bismarck wais
introduced in 1878. These lands are locked up
and kept from use in order to minister to the
luxurious caprice of an hereditary “ stage-prince ”
(for he has no power now, nothing but ceremonial
observance and state), who did nothing but “put
himself to the trouble of getting born,” to use the
famous gibe of Beaumarchais. The contrast
between the freedom of access to the soil of
Queensland and the barriers which are erected all
over Europe against the use of splendid lands, is
one of the most powerful arguments with which
to appeal to the would-be emigrant in Britain or
the Continent of Europe. If lands are locked to
him in Europe, he can soon change to a country
with a superabundance of land, under better
climatic conditions than his own, and with every
facility for getting all the land he wants.
In the last article of this series, the man who
began with no capital was dealt with ; and his
position was discussed with respect to the way in
which he might get a free passage, under some
circumstances, and under other circumstances a
cheap assisted passage to Queensland ; then as to
his prospects of securingemployment and gradually
accumulating sufficient capital wherewith to begin
“on his own —which should be the ultimate ambi-
QUEENSLAND CANECUTTERS —working in an “ unendurable ” climate, at an occupation which
folks in London say only black men can work at. What’s the matter with them? They're all right.
tion of every man of pluck and grit, of every man
whose coining out as a colonist would be worth
his while and the colony’s to trouble about. But
even the man without capital can get on the land
free : for the State allows him to take up land on
certain conditions, and his deposit may stand over
on deferred payments, extending over four years,
at 4 per cent, per annum interest. Truly, the State
of Queensland is not a usurer. Four per cent.!—less
than bank rate. But the State can do it profitably,
because it borrows in millions at per cent., and
lends in hundreds, or practically advances by de-
ferring the settlers’ payments. A settler can also
pay his deposit and obtain a period of three years
during which the payment of his rent is deferred.
| Speaking of “ rent,” it might be as well to say
a word here as to the Australian land systems.
Lands, being originally the property of the Crown,
have been parted with to the settler on various
tenures. First of all, there was the Crown grant,
which was an alienation by the Crown under seal.
Then, as lands were classified and the nature of
possible settlement better understood, and as the
use to which lands cohid be put became better
known and tested by experience, a great number
of other tenures grew up and were sanctioned by
law. It may safely be said that Australia has the
finest system of land transfer and registration
HOW YOUNG QUEENSLANDERS ENJOY THEMSELVES—A goat team at Longreach.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
which exists in any country in the world, and
which the world is copying. “ Torrens’ Title ”is
known and respected throughout the world among
jurists as it stands expressed in our Australian
Real Property Acts. Most of the tenures under
the Australian Land Acts are granted condition-
ally ; and in most, if not all, upon fulfilment of
the conditions precedent, a fee simple may be ob-
tained. But in Queensland there is a species of
unconditional selection also.
A “conditional purchase” in the old days could
be registered as a freehold as soon as the con-
ditions were fulfilled. Such conditions generally
consisted of three things : (I) residence, (2) im-
provement of the property, and (3) certain pay-
ments. There was some doubt as to the status of
these conditional tenures, which was set at rest by
a decision of the Courts that they amounted to a
“conditional fee simple”—or, in other words,
were so related to the Feudal system of tenures
known to the English legal polity, that they
could be converted into “estates ’’ at law by the
fulfilment of the conditions imposed by the State.
To follow this to the end, it must be remembered
that absolute ownership of land is not recognised
in English law. All that can be acquired is an
“ estate ”in the land. The nature of the estates
may differ, as an estate for your own life, or for
the life or lives of others, an estate in tail male or
female, an estate to a man and his heirs,
which is a freehold and the largest the law
allows. While, therefore, the settler cannot
expect to obtain the “allodium” of the
LEICHHARDTS MAEKED COOLIE AH TREE.-Junction of Comet, Nogoa, and McKenzie Rivers.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
land, he can obtain all that the F eudal
system gives him in Britain or the Continent (if
Feudal tenures have survived the various revolu-
tions on the Continent as they have survived in
England); and by our system of registration of
titles and the issue of certificates, together with
the safeguards of Real Property law against fraud
or laches, the “ owner ” of land in Queensland has
the safest title of any country in the world.
Any man, therefore, may “take up land’ in
Queensland. This term applies to Crown lands,
almost without exception, throughout the State.
And not only can he take up a quantum of land
for himself, but he can also increase the area of
his selections by taking up land for his children.
Married women can purchase land as well as men.
Single women over 16 years of age can take up all
State land except a homestead area ; to take up
the latter she must have reached the age of 21.
Married women can hold an agricultural or graz-
ing farm, scrub selection, unconditional selection,
or prickly pear lands selection. She may not
select from the Crown an agricultural or a grazing
homestead ; but she may acquire one by transfer
after the expiry of the first five years of the term
of the lease ; or if she is judicially separated from
her husband, the Land Court may give her per-
mission to select those forms of holdings. All
these devices are for the purpose of seeing that
the family of the settler will not have to “trek ”
elsewhere when they reach the age at which they
are likely to become settlers themselves.
Take the Agricultural Selectionform of acquiring
land. This form is subdivided under these heads :
1. Agricultural Farms.
2. Perpetual Leases.
3. Agricultural Homesteads.
4. Free Homesteads.
For an agricultural farm, a period of 20 years is
allowed in which to pay the purchase money, and
no interest is charged. The land is classified into
areas valued at 10s. per acre, others at £1 per acre,
and others at £2 per acre. The settler pays an
annual instalment of 6d. in the £, which means
3d. per acre per annum on the 10s. land, (id. per
acre on the £1 land, and Is. per acre on the £2
land. All these payments go to principal. A
deposit of one year’s instalment, with one-fifth of
the survey-fee added, must accompany the appli-
cation for the land. Therefore, if a farmer from
abroad takes up 160 acres of the 10s. per acre land
his deposit will be £3 16s. At any time after five
years the settler who has kept up his payments
can have his farm converted into a freehold by
paying the balance then outstanding, and if the
(balance is paid before it is accrued due, he is
allowed a discount of 2J per cent. The moment
he is ready with his money, the State is ready
with the deeds of the property.
The maximum area allowed for an agricultural
farm is 1280 acres, and the terms extend over a 20-
years period. If, during five years, the resi-
dential conditions have been fulfilled, and the
land has been fenced, or improvements equivalent
to fencing carried out, a lease is issued by the
Lands Department; and upon this, the settler
can treat it as property, and can mortgage it, or,
with the permission of the Minister of Lands, can
subdivide it, or, with the approval of the Land
Court, may transfer it. It may be noted here,
too, that those who desire to go upon the land, or
who have done so, ‘ have special Courts, created
by statute, to deal with all disputes which may
arise. These Courts are an inexpensive, rapid,
and effective jurisdiction, and are not bound by
technical rules, but can decide upon the strict
equities of the case, and do substantial justice,
unhampered by legal quibbles, preliminary objec-
tions, or technicalities of any kind.
The area of an agricultural homestead is 160
acres, 320 acres, or 640 acres, according as the land
is classified in value at £l, at between 15s. and £l,
or at 15s. per acre. This class of holding cannot
be mortgaged ; it must be fenced, or some equiva-
lent improvement made, within five years, and the
residential conditions must be fulfilled. After five
years, if the conditions are fulfilled, the deed of
grant may be obtained.
Grazing farms may be taken up by persons
with moderate means, not to exceed 60,000
acres in extent, for a term up to 28 years, at a rent
of |d. per acre per annum. Thus a man can take
up 10,000 acres for a rental of about £2l per
annum. The residential conditions must be
fulfilled by the selector or his agent, and the land
must be fenced within three years. When the
holding is fenced, the lease issues, and it can be
mortgaged or transferred, as in the case of agri-
cultural farms. So that several of these classes of
occupiers are allowed to secure accommodation at
the time of need, after they have shown their
bonajides by developing their estates up to the
point regarded as the minimum by a Parliament
which has shown itself ready to encourage settle-
ment in every legitimate way. The other modes
of acquisition of land, and the nature of the land,
and the particular industries suitable to the land
as classified, will be touched upon later. Just
one further observation may be made.
. It lies in the important fact that Queensland
does not suffer from natural convulsions, as many
other countries do. She is not habitually earth-
quaky, as are Japan, California, Hongkong,
Macao, Italy, and New Zealand. I can remember
one “ shake,” and one only, in Queensland. It
was at the time of (the great disaster in the Straits
of Sunda, when Krhkatoa split into ever so many
islands, and uncountable thousands of Malays
were swallowed up in tidal waves—somewhere
about the year 1882. There was a mild shock as
far down as Brisbane —and then the red sunsets,
which continued for some time all over the world.
Queensland is outside the earthquake curve of
the earth, as Sir Alfred Russel Wallace shows
us, so that although tn going north you pass
vblcanjc peaks, with smoking craters, all over the
oceans in the Netherlands-India seas, and as far
as the Philippine Islands, you have nothing to
apprehend in this line in the Southland. Again,
there are no hurricanes, or moving bogs, no hail-
storms with hail the size of blue metal, no bliz-
zards, rendering the streets unilluminable and im-
passable ; no black, miasmatic fogs; no typhoons
as in the China Seas, coming from their dread
hatching ground, “somewhere east of Luzon,”
and sweeping in furious vortices, making
great ships as cockle-shells. Probably it is the
benevolent shield of the Great Barrier Reef which
keeps back the surge, so that “the long wash of
Australasian seas ” does not change into those
furious and mountainous waves which the traveller
risks in the Great Australian Bight or on the
coast of China. I can only remember one really
destructive gale, and that was at Townsville—and
not much damage was done after all.


WRECKED
DIGESTION
What are aching heads, trembling
hands, lost confidence, depression and
sleeplessness, but symptoms of wrecked
digestion ? How can you have good
health, steady nerves, strength and
freedom from pain, if Indigestion is
poisoning and starving your body ?
The very first step to recovery is
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, a remedy which
will make your stomach do its work.
By ensuring proper digestion, your
blood supply will be purified and en-
riched, and you will again enjoy the
vigour and buoyancy of robust health.
Miss Ida Turner, 64, Baptist Street, Redfern,
N.S.-W., writes on July 15th, 1908: “From
childhood I was delicate, being always sus-
ceptible to chills and indigestion. As I grew into
womanhood my health did not improve, indi-
gestion remaining my chief (rouble. After many
medicines and tunics had failed to relieve me,
Mother Seigcl's Syrup restored me to splendid
health—in fact, it made a new girl of me.”
MOTHER
THE—
MIQNON
PIANO.
OUR new Models of the
MIGNON Piano atr<e
a distinct advance in
artistic construction upon any
instrument at the price. We
have no hesitation i.i declaring
them equally suitable for the
singer or player, with lightness
of touch that gives immediate
response.
Most Moderate Extended
Payments Arranged.
Old Pianos Taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS:
Nicholson & Co, Ltd,,
342 GEORGE STREET-SYDNEY,
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to 6d.
SUTTON’S MUSIC WAREHODSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
The summer has arrived—there is no doubt of it
The heat is hard enough to endure, you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to you, but your complexion is going to be ruined unless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and your beautiful skin you prize,
and rightly so, therefore preserve them by using only
4711 Glycerine Soaps and 4711 Eau de Cologne. After
a day’s motoring, golf, or shopping, “4711” will refresh
you, and render your skin beautifully subtle and clean,
and give you that peculiar charm which is alw.ns
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of 110. 4711.
The simple, safe,
and reliable laxative, pleasant
to taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in
results —the laxative which restores strength
to the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
all impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
effectively stimulates the action of the Liver, Bowels
and Kidneys in Nature’s gentle way—is
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Tho valuable tonic action of California Syrup of Figs, in
conjunction with its agreeable cleansing and corrective
properties, gradually overcomes the distressing
tendency to Habitual Constipat on.
Sold by Chemists at 1/3 and 1/11 only. Be sure you
see the circular Trade Mark (as shown here)
printed in blue at the top of the
package.
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boat,
22 6
Ladies who golf or take much walking- exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, l 4 goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at 22/6.
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light” is free on receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
EXCESS
FAT!
[36
'S
is a disease that can
be cured only by con-
sistent, harmless,
scientific treatment. Thousands of women are
cured yearly. Why don’t you get rid of your fat ?
“FATCUBE”
reduces excess weight and cures Obesity. It
reduces and keeps down Corpulenoe. It rids
the body of five pounds superfluous fat per week.
No drastic dieting- or exercise is required. It
is harmless, and pleasant to take. Improves
the general health, and restores a good figure.
Free Sample for 2d. Stamp.
Send for a free trial sample and our Free
Book, which explains “ Fatcure ” thoroughly,
Call, if convenient, and be weighed privately.
The Watworth Co., Suite J
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
- 13_
LADIES* COSTUMES.
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES' TAILORS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
94 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HE ARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
BE WISE!
To Save Money
Buy your Cutlery and Plate at McLean’s.
THE
«Sheffield«
£itflery Pared
Contains
PIECES
(*»5)
follows.
I Bread Knife.
6 Table Knives.
6 Dessert Knives,
i Carving Knife,
i Carving Fork.
6 Table Forks.
6 Dessert Forks.
1 Table Spoons.
6 Dessert Spoons.
6 Tea Spoons.
« Sugar Spoon,
a Salt Spoons,
t Muslard Spoon.
PIECtS
for
(0)
POST PREE.
Sold under absolute guarantee.
Send for New Plate and Cutlery Catalogue.
McLean Bros. If Rigg Pty. Ltd..
147-149 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
fi
F
V
V
N-
■fV
sv
£
SQ
3/.
s?
s?
M
fS
Every
Requisite
mWi f
Trout
jjPerch
,COD
'Sea
Bream
rmTLui 1
I J.ScOTr! T 3SBoiwSiMELEOURNE.
The Inky Way.
“ Slips ” : “ X.P.8.” (B. 21/l/’O9) struck one patch on
Queensland’s Inky Way, and I struck another. Th,s b ick-
blocks lever advertised for an editor, so I sent along my
references, and ultimately engaged at £3 10s. The boss
was a good sort, but he wasn’t the boss—only the boss's
worse half. I was told on arrival I was “editor and re-
porter.” Found out the first day that I wasn’t the editor.
She was. Reported a hospital ball and put the stuff on
the file. A couple of days later the paper wandered out
with my report. The Boss had censored it. She’d
crossed out anything nice about her enemies and inserted
insinuating insults. She’d crossed out any calm mention
of her friends, and poured out peach jam with flies of bad
grammar in it. Still, my heading had been left, and that
was something to go on with. Then I tumbled that I
wasn’t the reporter. She was. Rowed with the meekei
half, and he apologised and shouted. For a week I had to
dodge the male friends of Acr enemies. Later on the meeker
half said I wasn’t getting enough locals; that I hadn’t
visited two pubs out of the six, and they advertised with
him. Itwasn’tfair. From a sense of duty I went to the over-
looked pubs and got more or less drunk. The minor half
also dutifully got more or less drunk—mostly more. After
that the Boss said she could see I wasn’t reliable, so She
leaned over the table and told me whose name to leave
out and whose to put in, with extended particulars. In
futuye, if any village newspaper capitalist advertises for
an editor or reporter, I shall, for a start, send the brief
telegram, “ Are you married ? ”
* * * *
At Brisbane, t’other day, Samuel Mee, aged 80, cele-
brated the 50th anniversary of his job with the Brisbane
Newspaper Co. Samuel has been snatching type for
nearly 70 years, and still pursues the even tenor of his
pie as competently as ever. As a long-service comp, he
hojds the Australasian, and probably the world’s, record.
• » • *
Is there any particular reason why the evening paper
Should be such a blood-stained fragment ? The morning
paper takes its tragedy more or less calmly; it doesn’t
print too many headlines over the blood-stained axe, and
it exhibits a graceful restraint when the mangled remains
have to be mentioned. Also, it doesn’t go abroad for
casual blood items to fill up the two inches that were kept
for the pill advt. which didn’t arrive. ' The local supply
of gore suffices for the rag that arrives with the milk ; the
evening paper relentlessly drags into the peaoeful
lamplight the pale frozen corpse from Iceland,
and the distressing remnants of the Central African
bride who was partly eaten by her mother-in-law during
a brief family argument. The cracked skull of a slum
murder is thrown at the reader’s eye, and the bones that
were found in a bag are thrust at him with a large ex-
clamation mark attached to set his imagination working
gruesomely. The hanged, the lagged and the bashed are
paraded until the nervous reader lias to have two whiskies
before he can accumulate enough courage to put the cat
out. If he happens to be a full-blooded, cool-headed,
square-jawed optimist, who is indifferent to blood and
remains of any description, the details of 35 divorce cases
are waved before him to shake his confidence in human
nature and drive him into old bachelorhood and
lodgings for evermore. After that there are the Insol-
vency Court proceedings to make a financial nightmare
of, the gloating paragraph about the relics of the wreck
in which 583 people and the captain’s dog were drowned,
the intelligence that sharks and snakes are very plentiful
this season, and that bull-ants are expected to be more
numerous than ever. Lastly, there is the list of missing
friends which inquires hopelessly for “ William Windlass,
miner, 42, last seen drinking in a bar at Kalgoorlie in
February, 1898.” Just as the lamp expires gently, and
the darkness rushes in in a black flood, the wretched
reader in left limp in his chair, with a mental picture of
Bill’s booted skeleton bleaching on a far-back Westralian
sandhill. Is there any connection between the restful
gloom of the night and the gruesome shadows of Death
that lurk in every column of the Evening Bloodstain?
* * * *
AN ENCOURAGEMENT TO LITERATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Premier Murray explains that the Vic. Government has
appointed a new hang-man. The payment he receives is
2s. a day as a retaining fee and £3 for an execution. The
man is known as plain “Smith of Victoria,” but his real
identity is kept dark.
Who would not be a hangman fine,
A hero of the choking rope?
The job extends a wider scope
Than offers in another line
For thought profound and dreams divine.
The hangman whiles his hours away
’Twixt catting backs and breaking necks,
With no grim cares his soul to vex ;
For though he have no man to flay
He gaily draws two bQb a day.
From hangings and from floggings he
Can turn, and sweet occasion find
To feed his eye, improve his mind —
How glad would any poet be,
Endowed with Smith’s retaining fee !
But stay ! M.’sP. have striven with
A hope to smooth the lot austere
That waits on men of letters here ;
A strong suspicion whispereth—
An Austral bard is Mr. Sinitti !
He coils the rope, the cat resigns ;
And now the bard has ample lime
To build anew the lofty rhyme,
Well knowing (though the press declines)
That men will hang upon his lines.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SELL.
A WHIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hail 1 camerados !
Had ! brothers-in-ink !
Ye bards whose names are written on the scroll of The
Bulletin—
Chiefly ye whose names haunt the Column of the Dashed,
All hail !
Would ye achieve fame?
And "lory?
And a little wealth ?
Then WHIT ! !
Lo ! the petty cash is already heavy in our pockets, and
our names are blazing- on Australia’s roll of fame !
No more shall we hunt the elusive rhyme, or wrestle with
the sinuous metre !
But, now that reversolets are off and the Editor’s wrath
descends upon Australaises,
And now that they are hurled to the Bottomless Pit
(Which is the Bottomless Basket),
We shall out-Cahot Cabot,
And transmogrify Adams,
And shall square “ 10-2-4,”
Yea, even cube him !
We shall write soul-stirring Australiads,
We shall down the capitalist and his minions,
And breathe fumes of burning brimstone upon the Party
of the Decomposed Fish until they be cured,
And our words shall smite those yclept Anti-Soshers in
the solar plexus, and they shall be counted out!
(Breathe here, camerados !) . . ,
We shall fume with terrible imprecations
And roll in adjectives !
And wealtli!
Until the Editor, haunted by a ghost—yea, the ghost of
Whitman—turns His nose up and his thumbs down at
our Whits 1
And our names become Mud to His Nibs !
Meanwhile, camerados, put away your rhymin" dic-
tionaries
And make baste!
For the time cometh when a Whit will be an offence
before the Editor
Bike unto the Limerick
Or the reversolet!
So, camerados,
While the time ripens,
Seize pens and—
WHIT! 1!
VICTORIA.
J. C.


Amott s Milk. Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
3*
%
M
P
If you are
thirsty
try a
glass
of
*
V
&
£
£
£
/LIME
JUICE.
“MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS-
Unsweetened, i.e. , Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened— i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
‘IBUkKULLA”
...WINES...
i Vv tV'Vy. '’ " ' v ‘i'[ ' " ?■;
are "noted for their Parity and
\, ' Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
K.%m
AV
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry,' Muscat, etc.
A Trial Bampla Case, containing: One
t Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE .LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black,-White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/'
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.'
. 'Catalogue Free.!
MILLER’S FEA THER SHOP,
Corner Strang Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Course and.'Swanston Sts./MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tiff; Bulletin.] ' ' [S ,
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CA I AKRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
I °* l " e nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs : it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
bever, Headache, Neuralgii, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-*
STAR KOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
o. a
Zaw Poin tj
£* Z/pi/entorj
by letter, and reliable ad-
vice free on all matters
concernin';' the obtaining
i ' of Patents. Clients as-
sured of-tlieniost skilled-attention in draft-
ing, engineering', and chemistry. A. J. CAL-
LINAN, Patent Attorney, Rialto, Melbourne
JUST SAY
0.0
THAT’S ALL
and then you will he sure of getting a whisky made from the
purest materials, a whisky best for health and best for pleasure ;
and with a uniformity of flavour, which can only be guar-
anteed in a whisky offered by the proprietors of a distillery
devoting their whole production to their own brand.
The proprietors of the Stromness Distillery,
which farthest north distiller}', have
been making 0.0. (Old Orkney) for generation
after generation. 0.0. possesses that delicate
flavour and exquisite aroma so rarely to be found
in whisky; and as they always hold in their own
bonded store a ten years supply, you can always
rely on getting it exactly the same, no matter
in what part of the world you are.
If you have any difficulty In obtaining 0.0. please write direct
to the distillery giving name of your usual store.
J. & J. Me. CONNELL, Ltd., Stromness
Distillery, Orkney, Scotland.
P.C.B.
1
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakiibl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair - 161 KING STREET,
Workers & Dermatoiocpsts, Between Elizabeth and Casiler.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/-
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TQ. COMBINGS MADE UP.
SYDNEY,
?a<rh Streets.
■ Tails from 7/6.
Telephone 21^§.
Creates a beautiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
Penetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
skin, fills out the lines and hoHows and
restores its youthful appearance.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, or
from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old Bond
Street, London, England.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regtllarly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, EnR.
i
I
2
ml
m
L
V?
PJ
&
asoEg^a^ig^^
'. l.i V ;
V .;
s&
Sis
if 1 ..
i‘r SilpM
m
, 'i, V f v;, *
iji;; i
mwi
jjii VJS2M
iiillMi*
siiKMiSl
m
m
am
mzm
■.
■ml"
m
m
!?mM
—J-
The acreage under crop in Australia averages
about 9,126,000 acres.
Nine tenths of it is plowed by Horse Power,
and at an average cost of not less than 7\- per
acre, or a total annual cost of £2,874,950.
Half of what is now ploughed by Horse Power
should be ploughed by Engine Power at a cost
as low as 2\3 per acre under favourable con-
ditions, and averaging not to exceed 4\- per acre.
If this work were done by Engine Power, the
saving at 31- per acre on one half the average
acreage would equal the enormous annual shav-
ing of £616,000.
Are you interested in cutting out your portion
of this waste?
If so, remember that “Buffalo” Engines are
this year ploughing more acres in Australia than
all other makes combined—
That they are doing it with great satisfaction
mnd profit to their users —
That, power for power, they are sold at lower
prices than any other engine —
That they can be bought on terms, so easy
that they practically earn their own payments
before they require to be made—
That they possess sound advantages over other
engines —
That they can be profitably used not only for
ploughing but for many other
kinds of farm work requiring to
be done throughout the year —
That we can PROVE through
satisfied users every word we
have said for them herein.
•v a ■ ‘
International Harvester
Company of America
< lncorporated )
200 Roma St, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney.
545 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Bank St, Adelaide. 75 York St f Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & Co., Perth,
. General Agents for Western Australia,
Keen buyers
should send to
us tor list of 2nd
hand Engines
(Oil & Steam) replaced
by “Buffalos.”
Large Stock.
Great Variety.
Low Prices.


“Montalex” : Concerning curious names,
here are a few I have come across in my time.
Firms: Hurle, Burleigh and Rackett; Blackman
and Whitehorse ; Little and Long ; Brown and
Tough; Flint and Steele; Stayes and Lacy.
Individuals: Adam Eve, Sober Wilkinson, Aus-
tralian .Tubilee Goodwin, Wrandom Shafte, Stone
Hart. Surnames : Pine-Coffin, Death, Toomstun,
Brimston, Quacke (a doctor), Muddle (a lawyer),
Scryolehard (not a journalist). Ruffian, Foolsbacke,
Mandevil (probably a variant of Mandeville),
Sowsear, Wolfanlam, Doublestake. I'alkover,
Heavydew, Fairweather, Wackhard (he ought to
have been a pedagogue), Sneak, Damitt, and
Under seal.
Adelaide people really didn’t know how
to cuss until the municipal tramways first came
along ; but they can do very well now for mere
beginners. Under its Act the Trust is given pos-
session of the streets through which the lines run,
arid up to now it has shown no consideration at all
for either citizen or council when carrying out its
work. Its great aim appears to be to make as
monumental a mess as possible, and it is an
amazing Success at the job. The public would,
however, put up with the mess if it were a reason-
ably sudden mess. But it isn’t. The city was
promised an electric service by last July, and then,
in succession, September, November, December,
January and February were mentioned. Now the
running of the first car has been postponed until
March 9, and this time there are quite 100 people
who believe that the promise will be redeemed.
Amusements
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in—
THE DAIRYMAIDS.
One of the Jolliest, Brightest, and Best of Musical
Comedies.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Baroness Orczy’s Famous Romantic Play,
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL
SATURDAY NEXT. MARCH 6,
THE DUKE’S MOTTO.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Me.vnell & Gunn Season.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynbll & John Gunn.
EVENINGS AT 8. WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
The Distinguished Actor,
HARCOURT BEATTY,
and FAREWELL TO AUSTRALIA of
MADGE McINTOSH
in a Revival of the Famous Drama,
JIM THE PENMAN.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
- BILLIARDS -
AN EPOCH IN BILLIARD HISTORY.
GRAND OPENING OF BILLIARDS LIMITED
8 Spacious Rooms and 2 5 Full Size Alcocfe Tables now
available to the Public.
Tuition by HARRY & GEORGE GRAY
PERFECT LIGHTING AND VENTILATION ENSURE PATRONS
COMFORT AND IDEAL PLAYING CONDITIONS.
WATCH FOR BIG ELECTRIC LIGHT SIGN OUTSIDE BUILDING-
Location: 650, 652,654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Amusements.
P
ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees : Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell & Gunn.
CLYDE MEYNELL and JOHN GUNN
announce
the LAST NIGHTS of the Successful Drama,
THE OLD FOLKS AT HOME,
as the Palace Season Closes March 9.
The Play Produced by C. R. Stanford.
p rlces —3s., 2s. & Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s. Rooking’ Fee
Is. Day Sales White Rose. Early Doors 6d. extra.
-|- H E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
RE-OPENS SATURDAY’S MATINEE,
MARCH 6,
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME, AND
CONTINUES AS HERETOFORE.
S - PRICES AS USUAL.
GLA cT ARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
“Rack to the '"ld Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, St 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, World’s Incomparable Juggler.
MR. TOM WOOTTWELL. THE TWO BELLS.
MR. JAY W. WINTON and M’GINTY.
GEOFFREY and BENSON, Comedy Artists.
Great Success of LAWSON and NAMON.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette.
MR. CHARLES FANING, THE TWO PRICES.
Mr. ANDY ROBERTS, MISS NELLIE MAUNSEL.
PRICES—3s.. 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHUNG LING SOO, Conjurer, Magician.
(Simply Indescribable.) i
CISSIE CURLETTE, Quaint Comedy Vocalist.
STROSS and FELLOWS, Instrumentalists.
GRAHAM and DENT, in One-Act Comedy, “The
Power of the Idol.”
YEOTHA and CAPT. G. GRADE, Sharpshooters.'
Plan at Allan’s. £3" PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
C'iHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
j Price 2/0. Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, STELLA GASTELLE,
ALMA BARBER, J. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHINE,
and VICTOR LOYD ALL.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
I/ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THURSDAY, MARCH 4, FRIDAY, MARCH 5,.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MY PARTNER.
SATURDAY, MARCH 6,
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation, in
FOR THE TERM OF HIS
NATURAL LIFE.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
-pH E ATR E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan, at Allan’s.
w
IRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS <
WEST’S PICTURES ’“T.u.
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture \yorthy of note to be sepn at WEST’S
‘ PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. A Box Plan at Glen’s.
IMPROVE YOUR MOUSTACHE.
Easily—simply in a very short time with our famous
CAPILLARINE. Rub a little in—the last thing
at night—and the 'result will be a thick! silky moustache
that will wonderfully improve your appearance. Hundreds
of men have used <CAPIL,IvAFLiNE with splendid
success. You can do so too !
GET A JAR AT ONCE.
PRICE. 10/0, Post Free Anywhere.
CR7U6 & 7MTKEN, 654 George St.,Sydi)€y
Established 25 Years.
~#/ier
Wherever grace, beauty
and fashion gather to-
gether, Jewels add their
fascination to the scene.
t
(AUSTRALIA), LTD,
msm
All Goods delivered Free on receipt of cash with order. Money back
if we do not please you. 112 ,>age Art Catalogue on request.
Real Jewels are the completement of real beauty. Indeed, every
lady acquires enhanced charm by the wearing of good and taste-
ful jewellery, and it is a duty she owes to herself to adorn herself
according to her position, and the canons of artistic taste, with
such beautifying objects. When such exquisite personal adorn-
ments as constitute our stock can be purchased at true value
prices, there remains no excuse for any lady denying herself the
pleasure of wearing high-class jewels.
03640—15-ct. Gold and Choice Pearl Olivine and Ruby
Eagle Brooch, £lO 10s.
&
G9B73—Paiz —erf Massive Solid Silver Brushes, with Comb,
in case, £5.
GB49s—Unique Design Amethyst Trefoil
Brooch, 9-ct. Gold, £1 ss.
rl Set Bangle, £5 10s
111197—1
GSR
08139 —9-ct. Gold Loose Link Bangle, £3 10s.
15-ct. Gold, £4 15s.
03761 —15-ct. Gold Pearl Set Amethyst Bangle, £5 10s.
w
£
1
Q
* is.
ILLUSTRATION ABOUT HALF SIZE.
Moonstone, with Crystal Rondels between, 455.;
Amethyst, 555. ; Greenstone, 605. ; Bine Agate,
635. ; Malachite, 75^. ; Plain Greenstone, no
Rondels, 505. ; Turquoise Matrix, £5 ss. and £6 10s.
These Necklets are very ;effective in wear, and, as we
have but one of each, we counsel early ordering.
H 7693 —A blaze of .brilliancy. Parisian Diamond
Baok Comb, drawn half size, 15s. 6d.
GlO8 —“Love’s Awakening 1 ,” Handsome, Extra
Good Silver-mounted Comb, 10s. 6d.
ih—iuhuhhuct
EXACT SIZE WHEN CLOSEDc
Best Silver-plated Pocket Manicure. Cuts as clean as
a whistle. To be got from us only, in this quality, 2/6.,
G2OO8 —Ebony and Silver Brushes,
two in Leather Case. The best
for wear. Two sizes, 21s. and
255.
<399o4—Silver-mounted Leather
Note Book, Bs. 6d.


There is at least one luncheon room in Mel-
bourne where “Glass of water. Id.” is stamped on
the bill-of-fare. Seemingly, it isn’t the superior
quality of the Yan Yean fluid that is charged for,
or the expense of filtering it, or the use of the sur-
rounding atmosphere. The penny represents the
lore of the tumbler, so the management states ;
but one supposes that it is the easiest way of
getting level with the casual light-luncheoner who
consumes the largest possible cake for the smallest
possible coin, and wants three glasses of water to
wash down the crumbs. Anyhow, there stands
the item in all its sparkling purity—“ Glass of
water, Id.”
Journalism in London and on the Continent
of Europe isn’t all pie. One of Australia’s rare
girls, demure and prepossessing withal, had to
rush from London to Paris at an hour’s notice to
interview the great Mrs. Marchesi. Having no
time to change from the rain-wet apparel of the
morning, the pen-lady made a straight line for
duty, and put in an appearance at the Marchesi
house in drab coverings and a hat that wasn’t a
hat but a soaked shock. The reception was a bit
startling and by all means rude, and thejournal-
i.ste wasn’t happy at being told forcibly that,
though her face was not unprepossessing, her
bonnet was hideous ! Finally, the terrible old
lady hid her face in her hands and wouldn’t be
interviewed, and the nervous, racked ink-slinger
had a bad quarter of an hour trying to get any-
thing out of her at all. But some days afterwards
Mrs. Marchesi decided that she would have
another sitting, and sent a polite invitation to
Miss Press to come and stay at her house for the
week-end as her guest. To which the Australian
girl replied, “No, thank you,” and Mrs. Marchesi
got published at her proper value. There was
copy in the brief unpleasant interview with a
maddened musical female. In a pleasant inter-
view with a calm singing female there might have
oeen none.
BLAIR'S
■Gout
Pills
fQSU/J t RHEUMATIt'
FILLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
tOR COUt and
.RHEUMATISM,
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE-
&L A I R'S GOUT and
Rheumatic pills eiimi.
iiate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
Sherefore PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at l/l/ 2 and 2/9.
BLAIR S HAVE STOOD
THE TEST OF TIME,
V
%
Ey £S
*
PATERNOSTER’S
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
A POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price Cd, from The Bulletin Office.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849,. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; The Hon. F. E. Winohoombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. 0. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
- REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & 00., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
... Is
... lOd
m
KING-S
NORTON
Cartridges
Patriotism should be practical, not mere
talk. When Minature Range Shooting
always make a point of using “King’s
Norton” Cartridges —they are British
made. Obtainable in .22 calibre from all _
Ammunition Stores.
Agents
Colonial Ammunition Co,
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Ssnd Stamp for Illustrated. Lists of Books and Novelties
Madanje Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Ik
\WAW
sbouXd be wftboub
serfc vec\west.
V
Apragress/i/e c//etary adapted to cte grow/tg ct/gest/Ve powers
Milk Food IN?I
from frrfr to 3moot/?s
Milk Food N 92
from 3 to 6 /voottis
Malted Food N 93
from 6 months upwards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
SANDOW on DIET.
“Take the Plasmon Preparations. I myself should
never like to be without them,
o*
,
0
£
¥ #
NO MORE EXPENSIVE—MUCH MORE DELICIOUS, DIGESTIBLE, NUTRITIOUS.
“ Plasmon increases the food value enorinously.”— LANCET.
PLASMON LTD., LONDON. Australian Depot: 5& 7 BARRACK STREET, SY DNEY,
•I!
#
It aets like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Man Kind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Caneer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago. &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, have
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy. '
Sold by Chemists all over the world, in bottles, Is. 1 ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each .
WARN IN G— Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMANS CHLORQDYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the 1 ELEPHANT" Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Kocke, Tompsitt & Co.,Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman’s Chlouodyne, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
o
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
E7>e LEADING
HOUSE
CAN’T
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
OUR
Special
Snap.
6/0
4/0
2/0
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
KEY BRAND.
9 J
M34—Mustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong—
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
AULDJOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & GO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
T GE
LSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Od. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Bqxing, Hgw enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybooii, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. ' Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandqw’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 600 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 23 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nk\v Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 9a practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clou Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
BEST
FLAT
SHAPE
1
Vf
Si
%
*
The (£bd) is THE Pipe
that does not crack or burn.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KEEP IT
Wholesale Depot
for Australasia,
231 Clarence S h . Sydney.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
I Series, IY., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd, Posted free to any .address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion *’
the only machiae on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
fiv>* ve-jrc.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Tlway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee bv the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all' who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CP., c.p.0., Sydney, K.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of ‘ ‘ Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. F ull Bulletin size
Price, 21s. .
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
Strength; long-established,safe, reliable and
handy to use.
Insist on haying NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem.
'ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON
Froprietor, 39 Hunter-street, ntdnet. * *
Sample bottles and full particulars, by pott
18.4 d. (stamps; to make 5 gallons spray. ’
ASTHMACURE
GRIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonsConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
§£ Britisl)-JfHstralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
PriCP POST FREE, £t per year,
t "U« in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
in vited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It : s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


M
r
wZZf.Zr-. ? ■ sr : - ’ ■., ;■' : -| $
?dmm. w.
s
m
v ’A., . '
m V v V> } >
- 'to-:
ror
Sunbu
rn
;■
« ST
jgn.ujt-iamia
A boat on rippling' water, a summer after-
noon, a girl with sun-hissed cheeKs —this is
romance. Next day the sun-burned, blis-
tered face and scarlet hands are painful
realities. This distress can be avoided by
the application of soothing', cooling Rexona
to the face and hands after a day’s outing'.
First bathe the face, hands and arms in
tepid water, softly drying', then apply
Rexona g'ently to the sKin. Next morning
there will be no bad effects from the ex-
posure to the sun, no regrets after the
happy day. Rexona in its dainty box
should stand on the toilet table of all who
indulg'e in out-door sports.
Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions and irritations of the
Skin, Eczema, Pimples, Sores, Chilblains, Chapped Hands, Sciatica,
Itching or Bleeding Piles, Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, Scalds, Bad Legs,
Stings of Insects, and all kinds
of Inflammation.
Rexona is obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores, in triangular
pots, at 1/6 for small size, or 3/-
for large pot holding nearly four
times the quantity of the small
size. A dainty sample will be
sent free upon application to the
Laxo=Tonic Pill Company, 15
O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SooH\ii\§ *=
I=== ’ Healind
divii septic Ointmeidv
Purely <Wai\ Absolute'
Vegetable *) Germicide.
raaznmsiEi
n Reliable Remedy for all eruptions and rrritafions of fhe
Skin, Eczema, Pimples, Sores, Chilblains, Chapped Hands,
Sciatica, Itching or Bleeding Piles, Cuts. Burns, Bruises,Scalds,
»Bad Legs, Stings of Insecis, and all kinds of Inflammation. >
THE
MOST PERFECT BICYCLE
IN THE WORLD
Can be secured to you by having one built to your order of
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
You must however, be on your guard against the substitution of cheap imitation
parts and should make it an absolute condition that the B.S.A. trade mark of
3 piled rifles” appears on every component part of your new bicycle. You
cannot do better than get a copy of the 1908 B.S.A. Handbook. Study our latest
designs, make youself familiar with our trade marks, read all about Eadie Coaster
Hubs, Two-Speed Gears Free Wheels, &c. We pay a heavy duty on
these Handbooks but we supply them free to all cyclists.
Write to D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
S Stock Exchange Building,
MELBOURNE.
Bite the Bullet!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~T \ J HEN the Trouble thickens, brother, like
1/1/ the coming of the rain,—
' * Goose step ! Goose step ! and face the
odds again ;
Goose step ! Goose step !—who speaks of dodging
pain ?
Hi-yah ! Hi-yah !
Oh, we’re marching ’neath a banner that hath
never yet been furled !
We are tramping with an Army—’tis the Army of
the World.
There’s a local anaesthetic, of its virtues you have
read,
That has helped a hundred thousand who have
suffered—who are dead.
’Tis the wounded soldiers’ tonic—most befittingly
of lead—
Hi-yah ! Hi-yah!
Take the Bullet in your teeth, mate, there’s a
comrade on your right!
You must face the operation—now it’s bite, mate,
bite, bite, bite!
So you lost the Lady cousin ? So they robbed you
of your purse ?
So ’tis sickness, sin, or sorrow, disillusion, or
reverse;
Or it’s Something-past-the-bearing ; or it’s No-
thing-can-be-worse !
Keep heart, keep heart! In Our Company you’re
—One.
Goose-step ! Goose-step, the Regiment goes on.
Hi- yah ! The Regiment fights on.
Look you. Comrade in Misfortune, they are
marching to the West;
Some, whose jagged wounds are hidden, keep
a-footing with the best;
They&ve chewing on the Bullet, and the good God
grant them rest.
Hi-yah, hi-yah !
Hold the lead between your teeth, friend, never
lean to left or right.
Take your gruel like a Spartan, as you bite, mate,
bite ! bite ! bite !
We are conscripts of Creation, that nor age nor
youth debars;
In this War of Life together we must take our
wounds and sears,
Till the Captain liberates us to our home—beyond
the stars.
Goose-step ! Goose-step ! Let the march be for-
ward, brave,
Though it taketh but the highway to the Univer-
sal Grave!
So, a simple song of Manhood would I sing, dear
heart, to you.
That a Yoice from yonder taught me, when I
faced the music too.
Tis a silly little ditty ; but I think the tune rings
true.
Then,
Hi-yah— Hi-YAH !
Goose-step, Goose-step, you will get your rest anon.
Goose-step ! Goose-step ! As you help the World
march on.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
The Yarding of Hogan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOMETHING of mine had captured the
heart of Hogan. He said that if it were
set to music it would make a good song.
He had coal-black on his arms and smut on his
nose, and the sweat streamed down his face in
sable streaks as he discussed the matter and ven-
tured a proposition. The proposition was to the
effect that he knew a girl named Araminta who
was no slouch in the composin’ line. If I was
without objection he would ask Araminta to do
the settin . As it is no desire of mine to put
obstacles in the way of budding genius, I accepted
Hogan’s offer with thanks.
As a result of our community of interest,
Hogan and I became friends, where formerly we
had occupied only the cold relationship of trades-
man and client. Hogan was a wood and coal
merchant in a thriving way of business, and, as a
consequence of our friendship, I heartily believe
that he gave me full weight in the way of coal
and almost as much wood as I ordered and paid
for. It is little kindnesses like this which make
friendship so admirable.
I sometimes sit back and light a pipe and think
of Hogan. Without help, and with little educa-
tion, he had built up a business that made him the
envy of almost every other wood and coal mer-
chant in the suburb. He was active, sober,
shrewd and industrious, with few prejudices and
few predilections. From a humble seat in a
wood cart he had climbed to the glory of a fuel
merchant, with three men and a boy on his pay-
roll. Such a character and such progress showed
that Hogan belonged to that type of man who
sees a goal and goes for it, and reaches it in spite of
a whole field of opposing shoulders. Hogan, how-
ever, had one magnificent aversion and one all-
absorbing hobby, and these things made him
fallible.
His aversion was marriage ; his hobby music.
Hogan, leaning against the post of his gateway,
or sitting on his three-legged office stool, would
often talk of his aversion.
I m not for marriage, ” he’d say. “No woman
gets me. In spite of all their oglin’s and their
mmcin s and their mouthin’s, I pass ’em by like
the idle wind, which they respect not. Free I
was born, and free I’ll die. No eyes, blue or
dark, grey or green, sly or sly without seemin’ to
be sly, will ever yard me up and put me into har-
ness. The green hills for me, with a free leg and
an unbitted mouth.”
Hereabouts I would remark that I had heard
men talk that way before.
“ And saw them fall in afterwards,” Hogan
would continue. “Well, that may be. Some
nie ??. ln f r< j n t of trams and are turned into
smilm corpses. On the other hand, the man who
watches and keeps his ears wide, and takes the
sidewalk for it, gets to the end of his journey safe
alive^’ >Un °' iUK contin y ers to wear his smiles
. ventured to interpolate that, if everyone
thought m the same way, posterity would have a
poor prospect of seeing the sun by day and the
moon by night. J
Thereupon Hogan, if he were chewing, would
turn his tobacco on his tongue, or if he were
smoking blow a wreath of smoke, fat with
content, from his mouth, and reply: “Maybe
you re right, but I’m not everyone-I’m Hogan.”
TT‘ t S ?°? itatio » he would continue :
I m not disallowin that some men have got to
be victimised. Victims is necessary. But my
way of lookin’ at it is this : the Holy Bonds is no
Jess bonds than if they were that headstall over
there, or those hoops of iron round that cask,
lbey re more so, in fact; the headstall may fray
away and perish, and the hoops rust and burst
and give the cask a chance to spread itself, but the
01 ?^ s last for ever. I make you a present
°f the point that while there’s horses there’s got
to be headstalls, and while there’s casks tliere’s
got to be hoops to bind them, and while there’s
fools there’s got to be Holy Bonds. But I’m no
fool. I’m Hogan ”
With that fine imagery of the race to which he
belonged he would sometimes enchant my atten-
tion while he aired his aversion in a larger area.
“You see them horses there—the grey and the
brown. Both of them are equal quiet as horses,
both does the work they’ve got to do. Both will
stand all day fillin’ his sides with corn, or
leanin’ on three legs and restin’ the fourth.
Both has the same lugubr’ous droop of the lower
lip. Well, good ! Now put them two horses in a
paddock, and watch out what’ll happen. Any
kid with bare legs and a scratch on his nose can
catch the brown and ride him. But with the grey
it’s a mighty side different, an’ I’m the man that
knows it. Come at him with yer hands full of
corn; comeat him with your ‘whoa,’your ‘now
boy,’ and your coaxin’. There’s no foolin’ him.
•lust as yer get inside a length of him he gives a
hoist to his head, lifts his heels in the air, raises
a proud, triumphant whinny, and gallops off.
Well, that horse is Hogan, and I’m that horse.
When Pink Mill’n’ry comes into my paddock,
where I’m feedin’ my full and feelin’
happy, and tries her arts on me—smiles on
me with nice, red, saucy lips, and coos to me in
the rosy tones of the cushat dove, up goes my heels
and away I gallops. Yes, Nature giv’ the same
wigdom to that horse as it giv’ to me—only some-
times he overdoes it, rejooein’ me to conspicuosity
with a halter in m’ hand.”
* * * *
One night I found Hogan on a ferry steamer
faring homeward from a city concert. He was
dressed in prosperous black, and his face was
smooth and shaven. I found it difficult to recon-
cile him with Hogan of the coal-black countenance.
And more than this, when I saw that he was com-
panioned by a trim young lady in startling blue
and a white felt hat, greatly flowered and
feathered, I could not think of him as Hogan the
philosophic rebel against the august institution of
matrimony. The girl had saucy eyes and plenty
to say, and the amount she had to say kept her
pretty teeth in constant view. I thought within
myself, as I saw her smiling into Hogan’s eyes,
that, though unaware of it, the halter was in dan-
gerous nearness to his head.
The following night I found him at his usual
leaning post.
“’Twas Araminta,” he said in reply to my
twitting, “an’ there’s nothing between us but
pure love of music.”
I paraphrased Euclid to the extent that people
who love the same thing often wind up by loving
one another.
He laughed cynically.
“ That,” said he, “ may be true of some, but it’s
not of me.”
When Hogan dilated on his hobby he was no
less eloquent than when he spoke of his aversion.
“ It’s a night like this, with a high white moon,
that music gets me most,” he said on one occa-
sion, “but it gets me anyway, all the time. A
good song is bread and meat to me and wine'and
woman, and everything that’s worth while. It’s
that that takes me down to Araminta so often.
She sings the touchin’ melodies I like—the
‘Home, Sweet Homes’ and the‘Annie Lauries’
of music, not the arryers, and the symphonies and
the Screams in Blue.”
I interrupted Hogan.
“ Has Araminta a mother ?” I asked
“ She has,” he replied, “a good deal of mother
—l6 stone of mother at the very least.”
“ Any sisters?”
“One,” said Hogan, “an’that one’s a beauty.
She has the temper of ten devils, a wart on her
nose, and a beard on her chin.”
“A beard !” I ejaculated.
“ Yes, containing 40 hairs. I counted ’em. She
hates me, an’ I her.”
Shortly after business took me away from the
city, and I did not see Hogan for a full fortnight.
When I met him he was no longer the confident
and self-sufficient fellow of other days. His eyes 1
wore a shifty look, and he talked fitfully on sub-
jects which were novel themes between us. He
asked me if I thought that there were any honest
lawyers in the country, and when I answered that
I knew of some, but that they were unsuccessful,
he did not seem too well pleased, and put his
hands in his pockets, and seemed to take hold of
the money that they contained. Before he left
me he put another strange question. He
wanted to know my opinion of our Judges, and
whether it was true that they favored the gentler
sex in suits between men and women. I said that j
I had a high respect for our Judges as a whole,
but that, being men, I supposed they would
naturally lean to the woman.
At the corner of a street I saw a little girl I
endeavoring to capture a goat. She had a succu-
lent cabbage leaf in one hand, and in the other a I
length of rope. The goat eyed the cabbage leaf I
hungrily, but, when the girl advanced, trotted off.
The girl followed, calling softly to the shy
animal, and presently the goat succumbed to the
temptation.
“ There you are, Hogan,” I said.
Hogan only groaned.
Gossip leaves no stone unturned in our suburb,
and it was soon a matter of public scandal that
Hogan had jilted Araminta. Damning evidence
was quoted against him on all sides. Night after
night he had been seen in her little parlor singing
love duets with her. He had taken her to many
concerts, and bought her a violin, and was paying
for her musical tuition. Wild stories were afloat
about his treatment of her. It was said that on
one eventful night her mother had found the girl
leaning on his shoulder, pale with passion and
altogether unstrung. It was further said that
when the indignant mother asked him when he
was going to marry her girl, he had yelled “ Ha !
Ha!” like a red devil in Faust, and “Marriage
be damned ! ” and left the house in a hurry and
without his hat.
Popular feeling surged up against Hogan like a
high tide furious with foam. When it became
known that the girl, with her hand to her heart
and her hat awry, had been seen sitting at her
window, weeping, several customers refused to
pay Hogan what they owed him. Later on, when
it was announced that Araminta, under medical
advice, had left for a health-stay in the country,
public indignation knew no bounds. Hogan was
alluded to as a monster, as a deceiver and a black-
hearted betrayer. The girls in the house adjoin-
ing his, and the girls in the house opposite, took
it in turns to play tunes voicing the perfidy of
man to woman. When the piano adjoining him
ceased to play the “Fatal Wedding.” the instru-
ment opposite punched home the agony by raising
“I’ll Be All Smiles To-night.” Sometimes the two
(Continued on next page.)


THE VERDICT or SCIENCE
ON BILE BEANS
PROVED SUPERIOR BY %
ANALYSIS & TESTS
REPORT OF
A SCIENTIFIC JOURNAL.
k
V:
l
“ W/'E have satisfied ourselves
* ’ that Bile Beans are of
purely vegetable origin,”
says that leading London scientific jour-
nal, Science Siftings. “Our laboratory
experiments and practical tests have dis-
closed to us a valuable preparation . . . ex-
cellent for Constipation, . . . and as a
regulator of the liver and bile. Bile
Beans increase secretion in the whole of
the digestive tract. When employed to
relieve Constipation they do not—as is the
case with so many purgatives—cause after-
constipation. There is no griping. They relieve flatulence,
sick headache, and biliousness. May always be relied upon
to rectify the overflow or insufficient flow of bile, and to
i lessen congestion of the stomach and intestines. Bile
eans are an excellent family medicine, and we award the Certificate of Merit to the Bile
Bean Company in respect of them.”
Bile Beans are the
PROVED cure for Bil-
iousness, Headache,
Indig-estion, Consti-
pation, Piles, Bad
Blood, Fulness After
Meals, Nausea,
Belching', Dizziness,
and all Liver and
Stomach Ailments.
Obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores
at 1/I|d. and 2/9 per
box (contains three
times the 1/1 Jd.).
The above supports absolutely the claim we have long
made for Bile Beans, and more convincing evidence of
their merit could not be possible. The verdict of
Science Siftings coincides with the verdict of the pub-
lic. Ten years ago Bile Beans were practically unknown
in Australasia. To-day they have the largest sale
throughout the world, and are the standard family medi-
cine. Bile Beans are a modern scientific triumph ; are
compounded from the finest medicinal roots and herbs;
made in the best-equipped laboratories in the world ; are
mild in action, yet always effective ; are suitable for the
most delicate invalid ; are convenient to take ; are not too
expensive for the working man and woman ; are the best
family medicine—AND THEY CURE !
Beauty’s Favourite*
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis has been tbe
acK.no w ledge d and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
sKin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
pianos made the night hideous with one soul-
blasting lamentation. It was a hot time for
Hogan.
* * * *
When we met again, I told Hogan there was
only one thing to do—to marry her.
“ I’ll not do that,” said Hogan, grimly.
“ I believe you’re innocent,” I said ; “ but ap-
pearances are against you.”
“Innocent lam,” said Hogan; “and I’ll not
be trapped. If I’d giv’ her one word of love, I’d
marry her. But ’twas the music I was after.”
I told him that some men might believe that—
not all—but that no woman would.
“ They’re banded agin’ me,” he said. “ Every
mother s daughter of ’em. The man that can get
mar rid an won’t get marrid is like a rat, an’
they re like terriers after him. What, in God’s
name, am I to do ? ”
-1-hen as I looked at Hogan, pale and a wreck of
his former self, I pitied the man, and pity set
my wits to play, and the idea came.
Ilogan,” I shouted, “ there’s a way out.”
He put his hand on my arm. He trembled very
much. He looked me eagerly in the eyes. He
said, “Whatis it? —quick!”
The other girl,” I said, “ the sister—the ugly
one—she hates you.”
Hogan nodded.
Well, ’ I said, “appearances are against you :
put them in your favor.”
“ How ? ”
“ It was alleged that Araminta was yourattrac-
tion when you visited her house. Make it appear
that it was not so—that her sister attracted you.”
But how ? ’ he asked again, his face almost
happy.
* Go to her house to-night and propose for her.”
Hogan’s face fell.
“ But—but,” he muttered.
“ Doesn’t she hate you ?” I asked.
“Whe does, she hates me—l’ll doit,” he said.
(< Before witnesses,” I suggested.
Before ten of ’em,” he approved.
♦ * * „
He came to me late at night. He had been
drinking.
I did it, ’ he said, “before witnesses.”
“ Well? ”
She said, ‘This is so suddint, but I accept
yer.’” 1
we stood without words for a while, and
when Hogan went away—“ It’s the black and
dirty trick I ve played meself,” he said.
RODERIC QUINN.
In a Back-yard.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JT was a back-yard in Richmond, in one of
those characteristic streets to which the weak,
the wicked, and the misfortunate gravitate for
no reason save that misery loves company, and
the abject escape particular infamy in a community
where abjectness is the common lot.
Five men were at the fence in the right-of-way ;
a man’s head projected above each of the two’
dividing fences. All were sucking pipes. Three
were smoking. The men in the right-of-way
were of the lurcher type, moochers who lean on
no corner long enough for work to find them there.
In the yard a big man, who badly needed a
wash and a shave, was stupidly shaking a small
woman. He held her by the shoulders, and, as
he shook her, her head jerked so smartly that
there. seemed a lively probability of her neck
breaking. The man’s efforts threatened to dis-
lodge his own clothes. As he was obviously a
citizen too tired to dress himself securely, his
present exertions must have been a sore trial to
him.
“Will yeh gimme it ?” said the big man, with
a touch of pathos.
“ No, I won’t! ” cried the woman. “ I don’
care if yeh kill me, I won’t.”
The big man punched her fair and hard. A
waster at the gate, with ginger hair and ginger
freckles, and eyes of the same vapid hue, took his
pipe out, and, pointing the wet end at the tableau
in the yard, explained :
“Billy’s fair roused agin. His missus ez bin
workin all day, ’n’ she won t give er poor bloke
a bob fer a pot ’r two.”
Billy took the woman by the hair, and jerked
her round the small yard.
“ Er yeh goin’ to ? ” he said.
“No, I’ll die first ! ’" The woman was, per-
haps, thirty, but ugly with the degradation of
endless labor and low-living. Three children
were in the yard. One played with the dust in a
corner, quite regardless of the battle. The eldest,
a boy of io, stood at the kitchen door, and
watched without much concern. When he caught
a neighbor’s eye he grinned foolishly.
“Out with it! Out with it! Out with it!”
each of Billy’s righteous demands went with a
blow. His wife’s blouse was torn away, and her
thin hair fell about her face.
“ Tha’s the way t’ deal it t’ ’em,” said a loafer
at a crack. “If er few more was treated like
that er man cud get his drop o’ beer in peace.”
“ ’Ear ’ear ! ” applauded Ginger.
Billy was getting quite angry. He had got up
a perspiration of some magnitude. Apparently,
this was the only kind of hard work he had done
for years, and it told on him.
“ Se’p me, I’ll do fer yeh if yeh don’t ante
up,” he growled. A bright idea struck him,
and he twisted the woman’s arm up her back.
“ Oh, Bill,” she groaned. “ There’s nothin’
in the ’ouse, ’n’ I on’y got eighteen pence.”
Billy saw she was weakening. He punched
her with his free hand, and gave the arm an extra
twist.
“ Billy’s er boshter ! ” said Ginger.
“Bill, I will, I will !” screamed the woman,
and Billy pushed her into the house, retaining his
screw grip.
‘ ‘ What id I tell yeh ? ” said Ginger,
He joined the others in a rush down the right-
of-way. The lurchers assembled before the house,
breathless, cherishing happy expectations. A
moment later Billy appeared. A sigh of extreme
anguish of spirit broke from the assembled ad-
mirers. Billy was carrying a large jug, the lip of
which was chipped off. He went through the
party without a word, swaggering like a hero.
He strode down the street, head up, shoulders
wide—Billy the Conqueror. His admirers fol-
lowed dubiously. Billy entered the pub. Two
minutes later he reappeared. His jug was froth-
ing at the mouth. He swaggered back to the
house with the moochers at his heels. Not a
word did the Conqueror fling to a dog of them.
He parsed into the house and the door banged
behind him.
Ginger spat out. “Well, of all th’ mean
! ” Ide spat again. “No one but er cur
ud treat a woman like that.”
SILAS SNELL.
A Song of Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W T HO ivill sing Australia ?
f/// Which among you, carnerados, filled
r r with the Fire Divine, will hymn
Our Country ?
Which among you, conscious of The Vision, can
shape it into song ?
Not a song of sadness, nor a song garish and
vain—
Not with uncertain voice; not with a sorrowful
note ; not in a strain subdued —
Not a song of boasting ; not with wild, unfitting
words; not with the heart-strings attuned to
melancholy—
Not with too-merry music; not with a weak or
failing sound—
But with‘clear, triumphant, soul-shaking har-
monies ; with golden, plangent chords ; with
glad notes, silver, vibrant; alive and on fire !
Who will sing Australia ?
I ask no mean song, carnerados , but the crystalli-
sation of the thoughts and hopes of a mighty
Nation !
I ask a song of the spaciousness and grandeur of
earth’s Island Continent—
A song of pride and praise, of wisdom, confidence,
knowledge, defiance—
A song of glory, fame and love—
A song of High Resolve—
A song of the White Brotherhood—
A song of a world-affecting Destiny—
A song of Invincible Determination—
A song of constant Effort and resolute Endur-
ance—
A song of a People conscious of Coming Great-
ness !
Who will sing Australia ?
Who will sing the land of mystic dawns and
tender sunsets ?
Who will sing her shining plains and purple hills ;
her silvery cataracts ; her girdling oceans ?
Who will sing her strapge, still, ancient forests;
her red, frowning ranges ; her deserts, harsh
and terrible ; her dazzling lakes—those dried-
up tears of Death ?
Who will sing her Spring-green cornfields, her
myriad broad-leaved vines; her flaming
orchards and fair gardens; the ploughed-up
umbers of her cultivation ?
Who will sing her winter-whitened peaks, tran-
quil, unchanging; waiting the coming of the
generations yet unborn ?
Who will sing her capes and promontories,
those lions regardant, looking ever seaward
for the hour to strike—for the great sea-battle
yet to be ?
Who will sing her silent gullies and hidden
! places; her thousand quiet valleys ; her clear-
flowing creeks ?
Who will sing her lonely pools, and her rivers
that run in darkness below the rock and the
desert ?
Who will sing her slow and solemn rivers that
pass, whispering mysterious things, bright
beneath the moon ?
Who will sing her clouds and sky-glories; her
mists; her mirages; her sombre veils; her
lightnings, and her throbbing nights— star-
studded, fathomless, ineffable?
Who will sing Australia 1
Who will sing her great cities, youthful and
joyous, eager and unafraid ?
Who will sing her ships and the far-borne burthens
of trade ; her marts, and arts, and. crafts, and
all the handiwork of her people?
Who will sing her towns and all her habitations of
men ?
Who will sing her fields and farms ; her mines,
and all her stores of minerals and oil, and of
precious metals and rare gems ?
Who will sing the wonderful and beautiful Land
we have inherited ?
Who will sing her works and the task before her
—yea, all the mighty labors, begun and about
to begin ?
Who will sing her men and their strength ?
Who will sing her women and their virtue ?
Who will sing the valor and fortitude of the
People of Australia ?
lor these things are with us, and live, carnerados!
Immovable as the mountains, deep as the hidden
rivers, watchful as the sea-capes, they abide
in the hearts of the people !
For though there dwell with us many base,
greedy, blind, sordid, cowardly and un-
worthy—
Detractors of their own Race and Country—
Yet among us interpenetrating, uplifting,
stirring to and fro—there go MEN !
Do not our hearts beat stronger—our spirits glow
more brightly—when we behold them, and as
we look upon the'tokens of their being ?
How shall they be known of men ?
By the brightness of their minds ; by the staunch-
ness of their wills; by the fairness and the
boldness of their speech ;
By their clear foresight, and their unconquerable
faith in the destiny of their Country ;
By their splendid contempt for difficulties and
discouragements;
By a patriotism, ardent and all-embracing, ex-
pressed in word and act and daily life ;
By a consuming desire to make strong that which
is weak, and to create where aught is lacking;
By swift readiness to go up against all dangers,
all perils—not fearing even the potent hand
of Death !
These are among us, carnerados ; men building up
the nation and establishing Australia 1
Who, then, will sing Australia ?
Who will sing her strong sons and daughters;
the calm ones, the steadfast ones, the noble
and great and brave ones ?
Above ALL —above the liars, the schemers, the
mean, the jealous, the hostile, the clamorous,
the corrupt, the whining, the edacious-
stand these !
These are the Elect; the Pillars of the Common-
wealth.
In the dark days and in the evil years, these will
uphold their Country ?
Are you and I of these, carnerados ?
Let us make haste to stand among them !
Let us prepare for the Destiny that awaits us !
Who will love Australia ?
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


m
Jv]
Bifl
§3
For over
60 years Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla has been tested and tried.
It is known as the one great family
medicine. You may travel in any part
of the World—in Spain, China, India,
South America, Egypt, Australia,
i Africa, or wherever you wiii
» there you will find this fam-
iljw ready
, l J give relief.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla—as now made, it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, IVEass., XT. S. Am
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
iflcfs like a Charm in DIARRHOEA
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP. AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS , ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each,Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 %■, 2/9, & 4/6
Superior! to
i INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
9 Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
lours.
(MJETSf)
Each Capsule bears the name
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn, and Dusk,” a
collectionof bis best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait ; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Wearne 8 Breakspear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
THE
FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. Or.e
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
nrugglsts,
Grocers and
Hards are
Dealer ■ ,
Sydney— Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St, ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Cohnell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St ; S. Hoffnnng & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &00. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers. Brooklyn, N.Y..U.S.A.
m
among whom are
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINSLETOH'S EYE OINTMENT*
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or Ymte
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
BEWARE
of drinking impure water and
incurring the risk of
TYPHOID.
THE ABBOTT
Australian
FILTER
has been proved by the severest bacteriological
tests to effect a complete barrier to the direct
passage of water-borne diseases.
Fountain Filters, Pressure Filters,
from 20/- each. from 20/- each.
Used by leading S.S. Cos., Public and Private Institutions.
Write for Catalogues to-^
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Q Q°
GOOD LUCK
COLORED
and
s POST CARDS.
SEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of j ewellery which we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a RADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assett that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
levery case positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
- -
I REGAL POST CARD C?, 126 OCQNNELL ST,S>ONET
“A-MAN • IS AS • OLD
AS HE FEELS
A-WOMAN AS-YOUNG
AS-SHE LOOKS” *
\
kw
vi-uj
7d
“ -
ft:
m
Hr
Mr. Dooley’s Opinion:
Speaking to his friend Casey, he remarked :
“I’ms’prised at ye, Casey; ye do be gittin’
more simple iviry day. Phwat in Hivin’s
name do ye mane be buying an ould-stbyle
windmill, whin ye can git a perfictly iligant
“STEEL WINGS,”
wan iv thim new contraptions wid a bearing'
on both soides iv the wind-wheel, thefc
makes it so aisy runnin’, an’ pumps sich a
power iv liquid ? Ye do be hevin’ to git more
cattle to drink up all the wather, an’ privint it
goin’ to waste.
“ I tould ye the name iv the people was
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
an’ the address
Dept. C, Day Hoad, North Sydney.
Git along wid ye, ye omadhaun, an’ buy
some sinse.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
m
men
ANO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M. Da &Ca
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 dally.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering' from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia. for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, over 600
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. IVo similar book has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address:—
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “^, By House/’ /£/ Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
FREE


About Your Goloshes.
If the old ones are worn out, don’t wait till the
middle of winter before ordering a new pair.
You’ll have to get them eventually, and you might
as well have the benefit all through the wet weather.
In Men’s sizes we stock an
extra good quality in the
Storm shape for 5/3 ; others
at 4/9 and 4/3.
If you prefer the heavier
grade, with rolled edges, we
can supply the famous Ice-
land Beacon at 6/-
In Women’s sizes we offer
two very good lines at 3/3 and
3/9. And also Goloshes for
Boys at 4/- ; Girls, 3/-, and
Children’s at 2/6.
Orders by post receive
prompt and careful attention, and we guarantee
you satisfaction. Many wet-weather lines are
described in our Winter Catalogue. May we
send you a copy ?
PBRDR/AU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Kubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
RABBIT DESTRUCTION.
“ Currandooley,” Bungendore,
Tyree Limited, ‘24th December. 1908.
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
P e . ar S ]rs ) —l have now given your method of
rabbit destruction a thorough trial, and am pleased
rri * ; * la * ; *'^ le result has exceeded my expectation.
•i 16 ? ost . f° r clearing a 360-acre paddock, badly
infested with rabbits, has amounted to a trifle
under 2s. per acre. The same paddock would have
cost £2 per acre to dig out.
I am satisfied that this cost can be considerably
reduced by using your latest “ Perfection ”
machine. I am therefore getting two of these to
work in conjunction with the plant already on the
gi ound, and will let j'ou have the result in a few
weeks. Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) HARRY OSBORNE.
TYREE LIMITED,
CIRCULAR QUAY WEST(Q ] V . E. AA. Wharf),
PETROL ELECTRIGrLIGHTINC | SET
FOR
- >
SOLE AGENT,
T. K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
1 —IMI..HWT'—. i bw. rnwriiini .m m rHiTTmmMIIIMI
, AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
f
IN ABUNDANCE
May he had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
Write for
‘B"
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
ler.
E 3
The bulletin
Series, IV.. V., VI.
Packet of Ten. lOd.
:
POST CARDS-New
Packet of Twelve, Is;
Wm. Atkins & Go. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS* DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
■■■■Kte#. for every
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Mat-Virtue
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY.
Head Office Address
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
“CURRAGUNDI," BULLARAH,
27th November, 1908.
MESSRS. MOFFAT-VIRTUE, LTD.,
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs,
We finished shearing’ here on the sth instant, having put
through 80,250 SHEEP with .15 SHEARERS. The Moffat-Virtue
Machines went splendidly without ahi tch from start to finish. This
is our fifth shearing with your machines. All the machinery is as
good as new still. Yours truly,
■K' v :■■■ ■ ! 1 H. T. SIDDINS, Manager.
PROMPT ATTENTION
TO ALL ENQUIRIES
GUARANTEED.
7 Bent Street,
Sydney.
Sub-Agents :
VICTORIA : D. A. Skene, 464- Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing(W.A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Murdoch Bros., 77 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Ltd.
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS s KING & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY„
Write for Information. Over 400 of our Equipments in use in Australasia.
LOW UP-KEEP. ONLY HIGH-CLASS APPARATUS. LOW RUNNING COSTS.
Mining Hoists. Alternating and Continuous Current. Passenger and Freight Elevators.
Mam Ootioi i
11 bhoadway,
It
ROCK DRILLS
Maim Avvtraua* Ofviob
41 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE.
41 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
——mrirwrw i i i u
Air Compressors, Pneumatic Tools, Coal Cutters,
STONE CHANNELING MACHINES
COMPLETE MIXING. TUNNEiJnO AND QUARRYING PLANTS.
EGAN STREET,
KALGOORLIE.
Pneumatic Tool Dept.
Imperial Riveters.
Imperial Piston Drills.
Imperial Holders-on.
Imperial Chipping and
Caulking Hammers.
Complete Stocks, etc., kept in
Australia..
H. P« GREGORY & OOn, 74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
PUMPS) and the Simplest of ALL is
THE PULSOMETER.
FOR IRRIGATION SCHEMES.
» MINING WORK.
» SAND and SLUDGE PUMPING.
FOR COAL AND ORE WASHING.
Note—No Engine, Belt, Oil Packing, or Foundations !
operates as well suspended as stationary.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney and fletbourne, Sole Agents.
