

EWARS
Distillers
to
By Appointment
H.M.The Kino.
WHISKY.
■
107 Kent:
Sydney,
Street,
s» pou-
Mming and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
'IVKS. BUILDERS and GENERAL IRON MONO K tty. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
>LO
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
128 William Street, Melbourne.
h:o:b.a.. s
pdieys Orient ptel
pioneer
LEATHER
BELT iN G
BELT
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydnej
&«BdU, &M-
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Korting
2-Cycle Gas Engines
See l Vi Id Cat Column.
—
" Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
HAMS ®
BACON.
Fine Apple Brand
SLNO FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
After the rain
How sweetly the birds
Warble and strain
Like beautiful words!
Honey Kisses
Are the world’s perennial
blisses.
a/i, fr) y <zU(&u) u-& -deft.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
Accumulators and Dry Cells for Ignition Purposes.
W® always Keep in stock large supplies of those wanted Electrical Accessories. We repair and* re-charge Accumulators,
and stocK all Electrical Requisites. Prices on application.
THE, SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
BLNSDORPS
is the Queen of &II Cocoas
FOI^
|Arom^Strci\gthfrPurit)C
MALTHOED adapts it-
self to every condition
® change of climate
or weather.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Storm, hail, or rain
may beat upon it, but
MALTHOID still re-
mains perfect.
a
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also larg'est makers irv Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making' Machinery.
helidon SPA watlr'
HELIDON SPA is a most perfect
Table Water.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vo). 30.—N0. 1515.]
[Thursday, February 25, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd OJ
71 CASTLERSACH STREET.
SYDNEY.
llikkelsen, Conquering the Arctic Ice, illus., 245, post Is.
Witnperis, Internal Combustion Engines, 6s, postage 6d,
Russell, Electric Cable and Ngt Work, 10s, postage 6d.
Rubens and Whistler, “Masterpieces in Color.” Two new
vols. in this popular series Is 9d each, postage 3d.
Surridge, India, “ Romance of Empire ” Series, 7s, p. Bd.
NOW READY.
Vacher, Food Inspector’s Handbook, new ed., 9s, postSd.
Caffln, The Appreciation of the Drama, illus., 7s Gd, p. Bd.
Brooks, John Graham, As Others See Us : A Study of Pro-
gress in U.S., by the author of “ The Sodial Unrest,” 9s,
postage 9d. ' [postage 6d.
Royoe, Prof. J., Race Questions, Provincialism in U.S., Cs,
AN OUTSIDER’S VIEW.
THE TRADE ANO INDUSTRY OF AUSTRALIA, by Ben H. Morgan, clofch, many illustrations, 7s 6d, postage 1
Mr. Morgan was sent from England to inquire into the trade and commercial prospects of Australasia, and his 1
the result of that visit, is a highly interesting and favorable yet impartial survey.
HUDSON'S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to L e c t u r e r s,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon g e d
periods.”
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
rhe Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
fir B
<mm d Q
Sold by Chemists, tups 1/6 post free on
stamps from HUDSON’S EIIMEHTH.OL CHEMIC j
COMPANY, LTfL 19 York Street, SYDN-Y.
ThE RED PAGE
Chesterton’s Creed.
CHESTERTON, even when he is
wrong, and he is usually wrong, is
always stimulating to read. Hav-
ing “done” the Heretics, it occurred to
him to stand on his head and “do ”
Orthodoxy (Lane). The tragedy of G. K.
Chesterton is, as he explains, that he
tried to found a heresy of his own, and
when he had put the last touches to it,
he discovered that it was Orthodoxy.
Consequently he writes an amazing book
in defence of the Apostles’ Creed. Some-
how we think the Apostles will not be
grateful.
According to Chesterton and the
Apostles, the Super-men, the men who
really believe in themselves, are all to be
found in lunatic asylums. And, concern-
ing maniacs, Chesterton aptly dismisses
an old fallacy :
Poets are commonly spoken of as psycho-
logically unreliable ; and generally there is a
vague association between wreathing laurels
in your hair and sticking straws in it. Facts
and history utterly contradict this view.
Most of the very great po.ets have been not
only sane, but extremely business-like ; and
if Shakspeare ever really held horses, it was
because he was much the safest man to hold
them. Imagination does not breed insanity.
Exactly what does breed insanity is reason.
Poets do not go mad ; but chess-players do.
Mathematicians go mad, and cashiers ; but
creative artists very seldom. . . . Critics'are
much madder than poets. Homer is com-
plete and calm enough ; it is his critics who
tear him into extravagant tatters. Shaks-
peare is quite himself ; it is only some of his
critics who have discovered that he was
somebody else. . . . The poet only asks to
get his head into the heavens. It is the
logician who seeks to get t.he heavens into
his head. And it is his head that splits.
So, Chesterton, looking for a theory of
the universe, discovered a heap of Ches-
tertonian facts, and only in sorting them
out learnt that unexpectedly he had
stumbled upon Christianity. And his
search for a religion is most entertainingly
described; and his apology for the
Apostles is unlike the Apostles, in that
it is never dull. And he contrives to say
some stimulating things :
The test of all happiness is gratitude ; and
I feel grateful, though I hardly know to
whom. Children are grateful when Santa
Claus puts in their stockings gifts of toys.
Could I not be grateful to Santa Claus when
he put in my stockings the gift of two mira-
culous legs ? We thank people for birthday
presents of cigars and slippers. Can I thank
no one for the birthday present of birth ?
Naturally, he is in favor of monogamy,
“ because no restriction on sex seems so
odd and unexpected as sex itself ” :
Keeping to one woman is a small price for
so much as seeing one woman. ... A man
is a fool who complains that he cannot enter
Eden by five gates at once. Polygamy is a
lack of the realisation of sex; it is like a
man plucking five pears in mere absence of
mind.
Combating the modern doctrine of
the necessity of things being * what they
are, Chesterton gambols heavily amid a
welter of paradoxes—a pastime almost
dangerous to a person of his bulk. He
finds no proof for this doctrine of un-
avoidable repetition in things except the
fact that the things were repeated :
Now, the mere repetition made the
things to me rather more weird than more
rational. . . . One elephant having a trunk
was odd; but all elephants having trunks
looked like a plot. . . . It is supposed that if
a thing goes on repeating itself it is probably
dead; a piece of clockwork. People feel
that if the Universe was personal it would,
vary ; if the sun were alive it would dance.
.... It might be true that the sun rises
regularly because he never gets tired of ris-
ing. His routine may be due, not to a life-
lessness, but to a rush of life. A child
kicks his legs rhythmically through excess,
not absence, of life. Children always say,
“Do it again,” and the grown-up person
does it again until he is nearly dead. For
grown-up people are not strong enough to
exult in monotony. But perhaps God is
strong enough to exult in monotony. It is
possible that God says every morning, “Do
it again,” to the sun. ... It may not be
automatic necessity that makes all daisies
alike ; it may be that God makes each daisy
separately, but has never got tired of making
them. The repetition in Nature may not be
a mere recurrence ; it may be a theatrical
encore. Heaven may encore the bird who
laid an egg.
A characteristic example of Chester-
ton’s cheerful wrong-headedness, his sacri-
fice of sanity to an epigram, is his
assertion that the critics of Christianity
blamed it not only for its sackcloth and
ashes, but for its pomp. What the critics
blamed was the sackcloth and ashes of
its ascetic devotees and the pomp of its
bishops.
And we can always look to Chesterton
for a new definition. Here are two apt
examples: s
Charity is a paradox, like modesty and
courage. Stated boldly, charity certainly
means one of two things —pardoning unpar-
donable acts, or loving unlovable people.
The Catholic Church believed that man
and God both had a sort of spiritual freedom.
Calvinism took away the freedom from man,
but left it to God. Scientific materialism
binds the Creator Himself ; it chains up God
as the Apocalypse chained the Devil. It
leaves nothing free in the universe.
And, amid the overt contradictions and
shameless absurdities of his argument,
here and there we light upon some preg-
nant truths :
All conservatism is based upon the idea
that if you leave things alone, you leave
them as they are. But you do not. If you
leave a thing alone, you leave it to a torrent
of change. If you leave a white post alone,
it will soon be a black post. If you particu-
larly want it to be white, you must be always
painting it again ; that is, you must be
always having a revolution. Briefly, if
you want the old white post you must
have a new white post. An almost
unnatural vigilance is really required
of the citizen because of the horrible
rapidity with which human institutions grow
old. . . . We have not any need to rebel
against antiquity ; we have to rebel against
novelty. It is the new rulers, the capitalist
or the editor, who really hold up the modern
world.
You will hear everlastingly this argument
that the rich man cannot be bribed. The
fact is, of course,, that the rich man is
bribed ; he has been bribed already. That
is why he is a rich man. The whole case for
Christianity is that a man who is dependent
upon the luxuries of this life is a corrupt
man, spiritually corrupt, politically corrupt,
financially corrupt. ... In Christian society
we have always thought the gentleman a
sort of joke, though I admit that in some
great crusades and councils he earned the
right to be called a practical joke.
And, finally, it may illustrate Chester-
ton’s value as a controversialist if we
mention that he doesn’t believe Darwin-
ism has been demonstrated (no proof
offered), and he does believe that miracles
happen (no miracle subpoenaed). But
we can imagine the Apostles chuckling
as they read their counsel’s brief.
Chesterton's Cheek
The confirmed Chestertonian need not
worry much over his latest collection of
essays titled All Things Considered
(Methuen). These are confessedly news-
paper articles, hurriedly written by a work-
ing journalist. Chesterton regrets that they
are serious, because he “ had no time to
make them flippant.” Also, that they are
too long-winded, because they were written
in a hurry. He admits that he has taken
pages in attempting to describe an attitude
of which the essence could be expressed in
an epigram ; “only there was no time for
epigrams.” He had not enough leisure to
be quick. And yet he carelessly lets this
collection of loose and sloppy writing go
forth gorgeously, professing to be a book.
Chesterton, with two good biographies and
two remarkable romances to his credit, cer-
tainly cannot afford to flop around in undig-
nified journalese. He is hereby warned.
His article upon Woman shows admirably
the Chestertonian touch. Combating the
belief that- Woman’s world is more circum-
scribed than man’s, he delightfully says :
“The average woman is at the head of
something with which she can do as she
likes ; the average man lias to obey orders,
and do nothing else. He lias to put one
dull brick on another dull brick, and do
nothing else ; he has to add one dull figure
to another dull figure, and do nothing else.
The woman’s world is a small one, perhaps,
but she can alter it. The woman can tell
the tradesman with whom she deals some
realistic things about himself. The clerk
who does this to the manager generally
gets the sack. Above all, as sa \
in my previous article, the woman does woi
which is in some small degree creative
and individual. She can put the flowers or
the furniture in fancy arrangements o er
own. I fear the bricklayer cannot put the
bricks in fancy arrangements of his own,
without disaster to himself and others,
a woman is only putting a patch into a
carpet, she can choose the thing with regar
to color. I fear it would not do for the
office boy dispatching a parcel to choose his
stamps with a view to color ; to prefer the
tender mauve of the sixpenny to the crude
scarlet of the penny stamp. A woman can
cook artistically. She can introduce a
personal and imperceptible alteration into
the composition of a soup. The clerk is not
encouraged to introduce a personal and im-
perceptible alteration into the figures in a
ledger.”
Note, however, the Chestertonian careless-
ness in the phrase “as I said in my previous
article.” You look back over this collection
of articles and find that the article referred
to has not been included in this book. And
this is not the only instance of this culpable
negligence. Once again—the phrase acquires
significance through repetition —Chesterton
is hereby warned.
Spooks
EE. FOURNIER d’ALBE, the
* author of that remarkable scien-
tific dream, Two New Worlds,
recently commended upon this page, and
of The Electron Theory, is also hon. sec. of
the Dublin section of the Society for
Psychical Research. Hence his latest
book, New Light on Immortality (Long-
mans, Green). He terms this astonish-
ing book' an attempt to form a physical
theory of immortality, and his specula-
tions are always interesting, sometimes
ludicrous. His hypothesis he advances
as “ a type of a theory of immortality
which has a chance of being accepted by
the scientifically trained mind. He prac-
tically does away with death, finding life
everywhere, suggesting life even in atoms.
He defines matter as “ the aggregate of
living beings belonging to universes in-
ferior to our own ” :
The laws of chemistry are the laws of life
of the atomic species.
In order to achieve immortality all
d’Albe finds necessary is the separation
of the nuclei of each cell in the human
body from the rest of the cell. When
this is effected in the laboratory in the
case of a single cell the rest of the cell
will die, while the nucleus retains all its
capacities, and if provided with suitable
surroundings, with food supplies at the
proper temperature, will resume its func-
tions as if nothing has happened. At
death d’Albe supposes the extraction
from the human body of all the nuclear
organism. This vital aggregate he terms
“ the soul.” In his view of cell-life
d’Albe conceives of the body as a kind of
mist, held together by cohesion, which is
almost certainly of electrostatic origin.
Hence the .possibility of extracting from
the body a finer mist, consisting solely
of the nuclei of the eells, which in them-
selves are the memory and the personality
of the body. These constituent particles
of the “soul-body” he terms psychomeres
(soul particles) And having postulated
this scientific possibility, he proceeds
gravely to measure and weigh the “ soul.”
And here he becomes interesting.
According to his elaborate calculations
he finds the weight of the human “soul ”
about “the weightof ten postage-stamps!”
Could we extract all the psychomeres from
an adult human body, and leave them in the
same mutual positions as before, we should
have a kind of gaseous- body filling the
familiar outline. But the tenuity of the
gaseous body would be a thousand times
greater than that of air. It would float up-
wards like a balloon, and would not attain
its proper level until it had risen some 35
miles into the air.
This spook is held together by electro-
static attraction, just as our present body
is. If, therefore, the soul-body has a
suitable distribution of electrons, it may
possess any desired amount of cohesion
and defensive power, without the neces-
sity of having the solidity of our physical
bodies :
•Now suppose that what we call death con-
sists in just this : the psychomeres are
withdrawn from the body ; the soul which
they constitute continues its life without the
baliast it has just discarded. . . . Liberated
from a slow and clumsy engine of physical
activity, it finds itself free, unharnessed, un-
embarrassed. The most vital parts of the
organism are intact. The memories and
faculties are keen and alert. The com-
munity of intelligences is more closely knit
than ever. Diseased or deformed conditions
can be immediately rectified through the
greater power of readjustment of part to
part.
D’Albe finds that the process (on the
analogy of the action of chloroform on
every cell of the body, which occurs in
seven minutes) need not take long. And
that all the psychomeres should act on a
common impulse is not surprising. They
are doing that all the time, waking or
sleeping : that the soul-body will at first
take the outline of the physical body is
probable, as each psychoihere will endea-
vor to carry out it old function.
D’Albe next suggests that the earth's
atmosphere is the probable physical loca-
tion for the soul-bodies of departed men.
In fact, with death, we go up higher—
about 30 miles. Curiously enough, scien-
tists have found that just at that height
the air gets warmer owing to some elec-
trical condition, and it is just above that
warm strata that d’Albe places his world
of spirits. They wouldn’t mind the cold
—not having any liquid in their consti-
tutions. The author goes on to tell us
exactly what that world would look like
to a spook, though if we got there we
should see nothing.
As to intercommunication with the
upper strata, d’Albe postulates the con-
ditions under which it must be carried
on. The most obvious means of com-
munication with us would be the control
of an earthly organism, such as a me-
dium’s personality. But we need not ex-
pect much intelligible information
from a medium. We cannot reason-
ably expect anything new or valu-
able about our own world from beings
who belong to another. Still, d’Albe
has apparently overlooked the fact that
they might tell us something of import-
ance about their own world. He de-
votes a large part of his book to a detailed
account of the alleged remarkable spirit-
manifestations of “ Katie King,” whose
genuineness William Crookes tested by
scientific means to, at least, his own
satisfaction. The Occult Review , in its
consideration of this book, however,
throws doubt upon “ Katie King.” So
we can omit these experiments as not to
the point. He makes reference, too, to
the alleged efforts that the late E. W. H.
Myers, author of Human Personality, and
its {Survival After Death, is making, accord-
ing to the Psychical Research Society, to
communicate from the world of the dead.
Myers is supposed to be communicating
with us by means of an elaborate ana-
gram. He is alleged to have given the
cypher anagram through one medium —
it reads like gibberish—and to have fur-
nished partial elucidations of its meaning
through two other mediums, who are not
in communication with each other, the
net result of a comparison of their mes-
sages being two verses of a well-known
poem. The test is ingenious, but—to the
ordinary mind—by no ' means conclusive.
Why not take a medium in Italy and
give her a certain number, selected only
at that moment by Lombroso. At the
same moment let Oliver Lodge give a
medium in England another number,
also selected at that moment. And five
minutes later let a medium in Melbourne
furnish the result of the addition oi
these two numbers. If Myers suoceeds,
on repeating the tests, then we may begin
to believe that there is a Myers. If not,
then he is non-existent, or unable to com-
municate with us, or very bad at arith
metic.


n
©
wW
sfil
Tv
China Biscuit Barrel, Colored Floral
Design, Mounted Electro-plate, 18/-
No. 1052 — Mounted Serviette Rings,.
Electro-plate on Britannia Metal,
Handsome Design, 3/9 each.
No. R 9351.—
Butter Knife,
Electro-plate
Blade with
Sterling Silver
. Handle, 3/-
as
&
am
m
No. 1025— Biscuit Box, Electro-plate on Britannia
Metal, Chased Design, 32/-
iBSilSa
If
No. 14753. -Double Jam Dish, Electro-plate on Nicke.
Silver, 2 Crystal Glass Dishes, 15/-
For Satisfaction 8 Economy
in High-Class Silverware
TRY A COURSE OF
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 1050 Serviette
Rings, Electro-plated
on Britannia Metal,
Chased. Sold in boxes
of J-doz. 11/6 box.
Butter Dish, E.P. on Nickel Sil-
ver Chased Design, 8/-
No. 998 —Dinner Cruet,
E.P. on Nickel Silver, 6
Cut Glass Bottles, 48/6.
No. R9351--J itti
Spoon, Electro,
plate Bowl, with
Sterling Silver
Handle, 3/=
Fifteen Shillings ex=
pended at The New
Palace Emporium will
go further than a
sovereign spent at any
other Store. Country
Customers ordering by
post are
treated in the
same way as
those buying
at the counter.
The goods are
selected from
the same
stock, and are
packed by ex-
perienced men.
Our unique
system of
Spot Cash
trading is an
absolute guar-
antee of TOP
QUALITY and
Bottom Price.
a' m
8 ill
5 §3 =
Handsome Flower Stand, with four Glass Tubes
Electro-plate on Britannia Metal, 35/=
We are Family Drapers,
Complete House Fur=
nishers, Manufacturing
Jewellers, and Universal
Providers. Our Enor=
mous Store and its Vast
Stock of the World’s
Choicest Com=
modities offers
attractions not
to be found
J -3 elsewhere.
Write for our
Departmental
Price Lists,
posted free on
request, and
benefit by the
marvel 1 o us
economy al=
ways to be
found in
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
Famous Low
Prices.
No. 9Sfi—Double Pickle Jar, Electro-plate on
Britannia Metal, G 1 ss Jars, 18/6.
No. 14759— Biscuit Box, Electro-plate on Britannia
Metal, Rielilv Chased Design, 44/=
No. 1054— Mcunted Serviette Rings, Electro-
plated on Britannia Chariot Pattern, 4/9 each.
No. 1019—Tilting Kettle
plate on Britannia Metal
5 half-pints, 50/= ; 6
and Stand, Electro-
, Richly Engraved,
half-pints, 56/=
Butter Knife,
Electro-plate on
Nickel Silver, with
Pearl Handle,
1/8 each.
No. 1058— Serviette
Rings, Electro-
plated on Nickel Sil-
ver, Neat Design.
2/6 each.
Elegant Flower Stand, Heavy Electro-plate on Britannia Metal Mounts,
Four Glass Tubes. A handsome and Serviceable Centrepiece, 44/-
No. 1060—Serviette
Rings, Electro-
plated on Nickel Sil-
ver, Prettily Chased,
4 /=■ each.
Nut Crackers, Electroplate on Nickel Silver
2/6 each.
Jam Spoon, Electro-
plate on Nickel
Silver, with Pearl
handle, 1/8 each.
Tilting Kettles and Stands, Electro-plate
on Britannia Metal, Choice Design, 4 half-pints,
35/*; 5 half-pints, 40/= ; 0 half-pints, 46/=
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


VOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S 33 ~pr; ~y
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FATjind STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
me carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Passenger Agents for P. & O. S.N. Co.’s Royal Mail Steamers.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
THAT YOU HAVE
WRONGED ME
doth appear in this;
You have not noted that
WILL ANDRADE
is Special Agent for
Samuel French,
Ltd., London, and
has the Largest Stock of
P)ays in Australia.
Write for New Catalogue,
post free anywhere.
“Jim Jeffries in Full
Action,” and 30 other
splendid Photo-Illustra-
tions, showing the Fight-
ing Positions and Blows of
the World’s Professional
Pugilists, appear in
Donovan’s Art of Boxing,
price 1/3, post free 1/3. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted-4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Let t k r Writer. ]'/-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (whicl
no confederates and no special s'
where, with Illustrated Oatalo}rti
require no stag’e,
dll), post freeany-
e of Maj.dc, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
LOOK FOR THE RECK
mW
TRADE MARK I
Into. IN U.S.PAT Off!ce l
When Buying Guns or Ammunition
This Winchester trade-mark is the hall-mark of guns and ammu-
nition as perfect as brains and experience, coupled with a com-
plete plant, can make them. The red Wis to guns, cartridges
and shotgun shells what the word “ Sterling” is to silverware.
For Your Protection **.Look for the Red. W”
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., " NEW HAVEN, CONN.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked UNO'S 'FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery —IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&z
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CD TAILOR-MADE f D
•Df CORSETS.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 3/n t 0 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
„ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street,
AUCKLAND.
<s*
ADt
CORSETS
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations,' Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
I MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisk*
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
DEBILITATION,
NERVOUSNESS.
HOW HEALTH WAS RESTORED.
“ When I first made the acquaintance of
Clements Tonic, some twelve years since, I was
living in Croydon,” said Mrs. Edith Browne, of 63
Mount Yernon Street, Forest Lodge, “and my
memory is so clear concerning the details of my
illness that it seems only yesterday that I threw
all my infirmities away.”
“If you don’t mind, I’d like you to give me an
outline of your sufferings,” remarked the writer.
“ How long were you ailing?”
"Quite eighteen months, and during that time
I was treated by several doctors, besides being an
indoor patient of a hospital for six weeks, from
which institution 1 returned home as bad as ever,
and it really seemed to me that I was never going
to get well again. For a mother with a young
family to be in such a plight as I was in is enough
to break one’s heart to contemplate, and my prin-
cipal reason for giving my experiences for public
circulation is that I hope to assist other women in
throwing off their ailments, as I did. My nerves
were in a shockingly bad state —fairly jangling
together.”
“Did the doctors say what was wrong with
you, Mrs. Browne ? ”
“ They said I was dyspeptic, and greatly debili-
tated, and well I know it. I might say I was
so fearsome that even my own shadow frightened
me. Oh ! it was a wretched condition to be in,
with nothing but worry and trouble, and suffering
for my daily companions. But I believe nervous-
ness to have been the most awful bane of my life.
You’ve no idea how I was. The imaginations
that filled my brain were simply hideous. They
actually made me sh udder. If I slept at all, which
was very seldom, I would wake up from dreams
that were ugly in the extreme—always fraught
with circumstances and happenings qf a dreadful
nature, and I’d find myself shaking from head to
foot. I’d be afraid of falling asleep again, because
those dreams were too terrible to bear repetition.
During both day and night I always had an idea
that somebody was standing at the back of me,
with some evil object, of course ; and to tell you
the truth, my life was unbearable. For six
months I could take only the lightest of food, and
very little of that, so you may conjecture that I
diminished in weight a good deal.”
“ Do you require to exercise discretion over
your food now ? ”
“No, indeed ; not since Clements Tonic cured
me years ago, have I had to bother about what I
ate, or what I left alone, for it made my.digestion
so sound that it doesn’t matter what I take, as I
can digest all foods readily, and that means every-
thing to a person’s health. If you can eat well, and
digest your food, there is nothing wrong. That is
my experience, at any rate, and so long as I can
do that I shall continue to be the healthy and
contented woman that Clements Tonic has made
me. Up to the time of starting with that remedy,
I suffered from sharp pains, which ran from my
chest right through to my back. I was never
without them ; also headaches and giddiness, and
I don’t suppose a woman ever lived who was more
fretful than I used to be. Often, without any
cause, I would go and shut myself in my room, and
cry for hours. And I was given to fainting bouts
as well, All of a sudden a quivering sensation
would pass through me, and off I’d go. Oh ! often
I wished myself dead, and away from my afflic-
tions ; but now, thank God, I want to live as long
ss I can, to enjoy the many charms in this world
that are visible only to those in good health. My
gratitude to Clements Tonic for raising me up
when nothing else could, will last as long as there
is breath in my body, and so till then shall I
always advise other sufferers to use the same
remedy, for I am firmly convinced there is no-
thing to approach Clements Tonic for curing the
ills I have mentioned. To me it was perfection.
It drove away those headaches, it completely
abolished the. pains from the various parts of my
body, the fits of giddiness and faintness have died
years ago, my nights became restful, and—yes,
happiest achievement of all. my nervousness was
entirely banished. So publish these facts in any
way.you prefer.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EDITH BROWNE, of 63 Mount Vernon Street, Forest
Lodge, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this sixteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me,
4]
T. D. GLASSCOCK, J.P.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
now in London
writes under
date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 65 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
>ii(er’s
%air Vigor
It will remove all danuruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S.A»
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in fuh refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3*lo to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makPS of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
and all lates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe deliverv.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our tuedol offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO a> Dept. 280 Liverpool-
**AUed
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples: 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
6]
THIN
WOMEN
are a) ways placed
at a disadvantage
by their full-
bosomed anc} per-
fectly - developed
sister. You, too, can be normally developed.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD”
adds as much as five pounds a week weight
in ordinary cases, and develops the bosom
and hips by inches to normal. No woman
need remain thin and scrawny. Do as others
do—improve and perfect your charms.
Send 2d. stamp or call for a Free Sample.
Get our Free Book. Hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Falliere’s “Flesh-Food” Co.
Dept. 5,
Lindf.n Court,
Castlkrkaoh St.,
Sydney.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(lzs.) to the office, 214 George l Street Svdney.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
flßf
HSTM
LUNCS
THE.
CARE
THROfIT DISEASES
RESULT OF SCIENCE-
Bonningtons is a special process
for compounding Carrageen or Irish Moss
(Chrondrus Crispus), obtained from the
West Coast of Ireland. The Irish Moss
in its crude state has many uses but it
was left to that skilful chemist—George
Bonnington— to so combine this product
with other ingredients to pioduce the
splendid chest medicine known as—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.
this remedy has a world wide reputation for the cure of Coughs and Colds
and Affections of the Chest, Throat and Lungs. It has been in constant use
for upwards of 45 years. The most persistent cough will yield to its influence
and be permanently cured. It has proved its worth to other people—let it
do so for you.
PRICE 1/6 & 2/6 PER BOTTLE. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
FIELD-GLASSES
WITH
ENHANCED
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
- Distance between
Oculars. ——
Increased
distance between Objectives.
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT.
Features:—
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
i Tropic Proof.
Obtainable
from all
Opticians.
NEW MODELS,
CARL ZEISS, JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH-29, Margaret St.,
Regent St., London, England.
New
Catalogue
T 78
Post Free.
vnf
AlcociCs
Billicxrd Tables
The “BIJOU” BILLIARD
TABLE, fitted with slate bed and
fast=running cushions, covered
in superfine billiard cloth, 6ft. x
3ft. £l9; 7ft. x 3ft. 9/ 2 in.,
£22; Bft. x 4ft. £2s ; 9ft.
x 4ft. £3l 10s. Easy
terms if desired. By a simple
adjustment of leaves these tables
can be immediately used as
dining tables.
Alcock 6 <°
PTr
LTP
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
and
349 George Street, Sydney.
FOR GENERAL WATER SUPPLY,
TANK PUMPING & OTHER SERVICES
Goulds “ Pyramid ” Double-Acting Piston Pump
combines ample power and large capacity in the most
compact form. Its overall dimensions are smaller than
those of any similar pump of the same capacity and
strength. It is especially adapted to meet the demand
for a medium-priced pump to be operated by gas,
gasoline engine or other belt power The cylinder is
brass lined, valves brass, and gears are
machine cut. Write for catalogue of
pumps for every service.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING CO.
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.'!
Fia. 1329
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Pantler’s Son.
In the mad moonlight, all alone,
Sits little John, the pantler’s son,
Upon a great carved stair o’ stone.
Below the trees of Avalon.
The castle windows, shining bright,
Let down broad banners on the grass ;
While, ghostly wise, across the night
The King’s white peacocks slowly pass.
Now strikes the drum ! The merry flute
Trills like a pear-thief bird in June ;
And thro’ the rout (where, foot to foot,
My lord and lady keeps the tune)
Love and the Devil, lapp’d in lace,
Blow burning eyes and pinch the tips
Of tendril fingers, till each face.
Capitulate, curves up the lips.
The music shakes the orange leaves ;
And from their circling pedestals
The gods steal down, like naked thieves,
And leap the green-grown terrace walls.
Then down below, by Avalon,
Where, open-eyed, as in a trance,
Sits little John, the pantler’s son.
Dreaming he dreams . . . the statues dance.
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Love in Hades.
I saw Love pass with Charon down
The pale infernal tide,
To visit in the starless town
All who for him had died.
The gay God and the old Ghost came
Slow to that sleepy shore,
And a dead passion burned like flame
Before each true-love’s door !
Into this place and that he stept;
The eyes still held their tears,
Though some had their strange sorrow kept
More than ten thousand years.
He saw the old and young who went
Devoid of life', yet who,
Though all their joys on earth were spent.
Were, to their dream-loves true.
He saw all who had worshipped him
Before thought’s light withdrew,
Until the ages seemed to swim
Round him there dying too !
And he could feel his pale heart beat
A ghostly tune with theirs,
As he, too, might cease to compete
With the decaying years.
Ay ! though a God, he went aghast
From the mysterious shore,
And Charon smiled when he at last
Touched time with him once more.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Too Thin!
“Not Understood!” Observe the weird soul-
scratche'r
Who haunts the false Bohemia of the town—
Soulful and wild-eyed, and a lonely batcher,
Living on sardines—how his guff goes down !
His is the and the critic’s pose :
He capnot draw, compose, nor paint nor write,
Yet knows about it all—/ie knows, HE knows !
Over the garlic and the wine, by night,
You seek to jeer his soulful, priggish mood ?
He smirks— “Not Understood ! ”
“ Not Understood !” Hark, ’tis the fat Importer,
King of tfee Softgocds, Hero of “the Lane,”
Protesting wildly, as the Customs sorter
Catches him at his smuggling tricks again :
He waves in anguish both his plump, blanched
paws,
And raises up to Heaven his guileless eyes,
Babbling of “outrage,” and this “sin” that laws
Should interfere with “ Private Enterprise ” !
What hope to shame his capitalistic brood ?
They wail —“ Not Understood! ”
“ Not Understood ! ” Again the cry of Fatrnan :
Hear in his Tory journal how he roars,
Calling on Britain and the shade of Batman
To witness Capital warned off these shores !
“ What, closer settling? Cutting up Mp lands!!”
He sinks upon his cushioned Ciair and sobs—
“ What will they say in England!!''’ See he
stands
Posing as Culture, slain by Labor mobs.
You strive to wake him to his country’s good ?
He weeps— ‘ ‘ Not Understood! ”
“Not Understood !” The cry from yet Another
Who, lowly, pious, full of Scripture saws,
Speaks of the Chow and Negro as his brother,
And rails against the Immigration Laws.
“ It is a sin,” he wails, “ against the Race
To check by force -the Asiatic tide !
All ‘ White Australians ’ are devoid of ‘ Grace ’
And filled with folly, prejudice, and pride !”
Hail this backbiter “traitor ” ? If you would
He whines—“ Not understood ! ”
Soul-posers, Fat men, Traitors, landed Robbers !
This Our Land’s verdict—heed it to the letter :
You canting. Frauds and sycophantic sobbers
Might once deceive—but now we know you
better.
‘‘ Not Understood ? ” Cease that impostor’s yell.
Australia rather knows you FAR TOO WELL !
VICTORIA.
AUGUSTUS BLOWFLY.


■^YiYi x
«
C*
01
Qi
vP
N
h
c
Or
B
— J
<o
rfc
0
;?4/i
J
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW
GOOD TASTE
A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of working out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend.
The sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not crncH
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms!
243 COLLINS ST.
Tfie*E&sence qf 'ViYaHity
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
m* jA,
=*
UPPORTS
f
0
f
c.
0.
0
Ride only
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free.
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,'
England
“RATITE”
IS USED
bv Municipal, Military and Naval Authorities,
by Steamship Companies, by Grain Stores,
Slaughter Houses, and Factories all over the
civilised world.
SCIENTIFIC and INFALLIBLE
RAT
Exterminator.
Harmless to Man and to all Domestic Animals.
3/6 per Tube; 3 Tubes, 10 /- Post Free.
Regular Weekly Supplies received by
CRRL ZOELL.ER & CO. LTP.
The Surgical and Veterinary Supply House,
246 Queen Street, BRISBANEi
as Agents for
Pasteur Vaccine Go. Ltd.,
7 Rue Meyerbeer, PARIS.
Perfection in Quality as well as in Name
PERFECTION
THE
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plugs, or Cut Up in Tins, 2ozs. and 4ozs.
BOVRIL
is indispensable in the Sick-room.
By Royal Warrant ’
Here's a Bargain 1
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT-
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch O /
Post Free, “
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE,
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Illustrated Price List Free.
Pale Blue Bead Necklets, 1/- Each.
The very Newest Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock.
W T rite early if you wish to secure one.
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Mention Tiif. Bulletin.
B
I
I
9
A
A
~r
m
*mh
' XV v*
xx
si
■
m
r
- •
• ■
iH \ir
*W m ' f-mg
mm
m
E.RICH & C 9 IJ? Sydney & Brisbane
Itfljplllft
Combines
beauty with
the durability
for which
RUBEROID
ROOFING has
always been
noted.
A PERMANENT
ROOFING WITH
A PERMANENT
COLOR.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1515.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1909.
PIUOE 6d
THE FUGITIVES.
Mr. A. J. Balfour, leader of the Opposition, said the Government, by rash speech and action, had driven Capital abroad from Great Britain. —Gable (18/2/’ 09).
On account of Mr. Roosevelt’s attitude towards the Trusts, many large capitalists are threatening to withdraw from the United States. —Recent Gable.
Socialistic legislation is driving Capital out of Australia. —Australian Daily Paper (any day).
Alderman T. H. Kelly, just back from “ the East,” says, “ wealthy Chinese seek to hide their wealth, or else clear out of the country. If they stop in their
own provinces they are fleeced.”— Sydney D.T.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Go.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Rcr Annum ... ... ' ... £j Q y
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly " ... ’’’ 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tint Bulletin posted
i eyularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
lloir to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin',” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Njieeiul Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
'J o A Miltonrx in lilac,lt and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— x.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tim Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gutch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, If. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhi Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.—C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ S]>eeial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x llrin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
S^^xxlZeZz/Ti,
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1909.
THE COUNTRY THAT WAS NO GOOD.
In the ancient proverb the distant field was
always the greenest; but in Australia the distant
field, as long as it wasn’t a mining field, has been
mostly regarded as a wilderness. In the old maps
“stony deserts” and “sandy deserts” are scat-
tered all over the continent. Some of the ex-
plorers were mainly responsible for that. They
were fine men, most of them, but they were men,
after all, and plenty of them didn’t under-state
their perils. In that respect they were no better
and no worse than the doctor or the lawyer who
shakes his head and says that the case is pretty
serious, but he thinks he will be able to pull you
through. If he doesn’t —well, it’s the case that
is to blame. If he succeeds, clearly so much the
more credit to him. And the explorers have not
always been the men best fitted for the job, any-
way. They have mostly had great stores of pluck,
but often they have had very little busheraft.
Any Australian schoolboy would put Burke and
Wills at the top of his list of explorers of the
•continent; yet away out in the Far West the
same small boy could still find old bush battlers
who were living in the country that these men
“explored,” and who still can’t hear their names
mentioned without a smile as well as a word of
pity. Yet because Burke and Wills died,
simply because nobody had been ahead of them
to dig tanks or build dams, another patch
was marked on the map of Australia “Stony
Desert.”
• * *
It is just as well to go back to the beginning of
things in Australia, and find out whether parts
that are now regarded as quite habitable had any
better name to start with. Governor Phillip
looked at Botany Bay, and decided that nobody
could possibly live on shores where Ah Chow now
triumphantly produces the spring onion and the
stupendous cabbage. After Phillip had turned
aside from Botany Bay, he went on to Port Jack-
son, and things were not much better there.
Major Ross, his second in command, wrote back
to England that nobody could make a living in
Australia ; it would be “ cheaper to feed convicts
on turtle and venison at the London Tavern
than be at the expense of sending them
pere.” Sydney and the country around it were
such a howling wilderness that finally Phillip
shipped off a couple of hundred people to Norfolk
Island to save their lives. It cost many years and
many lives to reach the Blue Mountains; and
attempt after attempt to pass to the other side
failed. Then when the barrier had been scaled,
the report was circulated that the country was no
good—it was a wilderness over-run by black
devils. From that time down to the present
there always has been a party interested in saying
that the country over the next range, or beyond
the next creek, was a wilderness or a desert;
the party has stuck to that end of the
yarn even if it has dropped the devils.
Phillip and his successors spread the story be-
cause they had troubles enough with their convicts
as it was, and didn’t want any new ones ; and more
recently the Stinking Fish yarn has been circu-
lated by people who don’t want to be turned off
country which they are able to rent under present
conditions for about a farthing or so an acre. In
older days they were even able to buy it outright
for very little more. There was the case, for in-
stance, of the Australian Agricultural Co. (the
A. A. Co.), which, having got hold of a coal prin-
cipality around Newcastle, was also allowed to
secure a bit of waste land in the unoccupied back-
blocks, whereon it might turn out a few sheep and
perhaps a goat or two. The bit of waste land for
the goat or two is nowadays the wonderfully
fertile Peel River Estate, one-third of the remnant
of which the State of N. S. Wales is now attempting
to buy back for closer settlement at a cost of about
half a million sterling.
In Victoria much the same thing happened as in
Sydney. Colonel Collins, who was sent to settle
there, looked on the country near where Sorrento
now is, heard remarkable stories about the usual
black devils, and also made up his mind that that
corner of Australia was “impossible.” He hung
on no longer than it took him to get permission to
quit, when he promptly fled to Tasmania, and
abandoned the settlement. Years later, Surveyor-
General Oxley, one of the most energetic men of
the time, looked over the edge, and reported
that the Victorian part of the continent was a
barren, waterless desert. Across in Tasmania they
shifted from camp to camp, and found nothing to
their liking. The northern settlement on the
island was abandoned. Farming in what is now
one of the gardens of the Commonwealth was such
an utter failure that, having nothing else to eat,
the convicts were turned loose to hunt up kanga-
roos—and a good many of them kept loose. In
Westralia, the first attempt at colonisation resulted
in failure, and in S. Australia it resulted in chaos
—such chaos that the whole boiling would have
evaporated if the British Government had not
handed over something like £150,000 to square up
accounts and keep the hungry wolf out of the
wattle-and-dab humpy. And even when that had
been done, pretty well everybody who could
cleared out for either N. S. Wales or Victoria, or
was helped back to England.
* * » *
After the capitals had struck root, and there
was no longer any doubt about the country around
them being habitable, much the same attitude
was preserved towards the immediate backblocks.
The N.S.W. North Coast was just “the Big
Scrub” until a few years ago it was found to con-
tain some of the finest country in the continent;
and one single co-operative co., which wasn’t
born 15 years ago, sold over half-a-million pounds’
worth of butter in the past six months. In
Queensland the North wasn’t habitable until they
found that sugar would grow there ; then it wasn’t
habitable by white men. Finally, within the
last half-dozen years, the Government put its slow
foot down, and said that the colored labor must
go, even if the sugar business went with it; and,
instead of the sugar business going, white labor
produced results such as had never been got
before. Now some of the men who have been
growing sugar, and a good many others besides,
have pushed into the Atherton tableland, at the
back of Cairns (where the white man couldn’t
live), and they find one of the richest volcanic
soils in Australia watered by one of the most cer-
tain rainfalls.
* * * *
In the north of Queensland it was the alleged
terrors of the tropical climate that blocked settle-
ment just as effectively as the stories about black
devils kept men from trying to get to the other
side of the Blue Mountains, and later on sent
Collins scuttling out of Victoria. In the south
the black devils later on took the shape of wither-
ing stories about the rain that never came and the
fierce winds that lapped up the moisture when
there happened to be any. Surveyor-General
Goyder drew a line across the map of S. Australia,
and practically marked the far side of it—
“ Gehenna, with certain small modifications of no
consequence.” In the south-east they marked
“ Pinnaroo Desert ” on the map. Over on the
the West Coast, beyond Pt. Lincoln, there was
more “desert,” inhabited mostly by wild dogs.
All this country was “impossible” from the point
of view of the man who proposed to do his farming
like his father used to do it in Kent or Devon.
They found out, however, that there were other
ways of tickling the soil besides those that were
current in Kent and Devon a hundred years ago ;
and. to-day, helped by the chemist and the
engineer, big harvests are coming from Pinnaroo,
and successful settlement is spreading far along
the West Coast; while Goyder’s line of rainfall
has been mostly ploughed up or otherwise
obliterated.
-***'<*
The other day The Bulletin printed the map
of Australia with a line drawn across it so as to
cut off Sydney and Melbourne and Adelaide and
Hobart—four out of the six State capitals—and
more than four-fifths of Australia still remained.
On the strength of that map The Bulletin
pleaded for the Large Australian view of things ;
it begged Australians to become battlers for the
policy which keeps its best eye on that great part
of Australia which is as yet a mostly-empty space,
without population of its own to urge its claims
and advertise its possibilities. And for a start it
seems necessary to root up the idea that this
great empty space is empty because it is valueless.
It has been shown how almost every part of Aus-
tralia has been declared to be valueless at one
time or another, even the parts that are now
reckoned of the greatest value. The British
colonisers, however, though the first of them —
Governor Phillip— did say that the country
wouldn’t be self-supporting for a hundred
years, had grit enough to stick to their job.
Now that it rests with Australia to do the
colonising, it ought to be an insult to suggest that
Australia hasn’t either the necessary grit or the
necessary faith for its job. If it has the necessary
grit and faith, the Large Australian idea is safe ;
and a bad time is ahead for the mean Little Aus-
tralian view, with its leaning to State Frights,
and its petty struggle to further congest the
already congested cities, and its constant effort
to clip the wings of the Australian Government—
this Government that stands for the great four-
fifths, the empty silent spaces that are as truly
Australiii as the most thickly vote-infested part of
the continent.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Dockyard.
With the birth of an Australian Navy the ques-
tion of a Federal Dockyard conies to the front
with a rush. Wade, of N.S.W., has risen to the
occasion, and, with characteristic cool impudence,
offers the Australian Government the use of the
Fitzrov Dock. He gently insinuates that, if the
Australian Government is amenable in other ways,
he might be willing to even hand the thing over
to the Commonwealth. In this matter, Wade is
serving the interests of the little clique which he
represents, and is pandering to the provincialism
of which he is the chief champion. He wants the
Commonwealth Naval Station situated in Sydney
Harbor, and talks glibly of making concessions to
get it there. Immediately he took up that atti-
tude Joe Cook suddenly expressed a desire to end
his controversy about the creation of the Australian
Navy. If Sydney was to benefit by the money to be
spent, the main objection was gone; and Joe’s
patriotism flamed out anew. In view of these
things Wade cannot be told too soon that the
Commonwealth wants no concessions, and needs
none. If Fitzroy Dock is worth haying, and is
necessary for the defence of Australia, the Aus-
tralian Government can take it under the right of
Eminent Domain. By Part V., Clause XXXI., of
the Australian Constitution, the Commonwealth
Parliament is empowered to make laws with
respect to “the acquisition of property on just
terms from any State or person for any purpose
in respect of which the Parliament has power to
make laws.” The defence of Australia is a matter
on which the Commonwealth Parliament has
power to legislate, and which is reserved to it
exclusively, special care being taken to emphasise
the fact. So if the Commonwealth requires Fitz-
roy Dock for purposes of Defence it can acquire
it easily enough. The High Courtis the judge
of what are “just terms” ; and Wade has really
no more to do with the matter than the boy who
licks the envelopes containing his statement of
claim. But even though the Commonwealth has
the power and the right to take this dock, it does
not follow that the Government should take it.
Certainly the Commonwealth will no doubt have
to eventually own a dockyard in Sydney ; also in
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Port Darwin,
and somewhere in Westralia. But any idea of
placing the headquarters of the Australian Navy
in Sydney must be sternly discountenanced. The
Federal port must be the headquarters of the
Federal Navy; and Australia must be on its
guard against a plot to have it otherwise. One of
the reasons advanced for the selection of the Yass-
Canberra site was that it would have access to
Jervis Bay, where an impregnable base could, it
was alleged, be created for the Australian Navy.
The selection of Yassberra having been secured
by false representations, Wade now proceeds to
openly attempt to filch the Commonwealth Naval
Headquarters for Sydney, and talks of terms and
concessions as though he were the master of the
position. Happily he isn’t. In this matter, at
least, the Parliament of Australia stands all-
powerful, and the only check upon its actions are
the powers of the High Court in determining
what-are “just terms.”
♦
Murray’s Chance to Do Good Business.
In connection with the discovery of coal in the
Powlett basin, Premier Murray, of Victoria, has
a chance to really Do Something. It may not be
a very big field ; but, at any rate, a 7ft. 7in. seam
was the other day pierced by a bore a quarter of a
mile away from where 6ft. of coal was proved ;
and half a mile in another direction a bore proved
Oft. of good mineral. Half a mile is a small
stretch, no doubt, compared with distances on the
enormous coalfields of N.S.W.; but if the Powlett
is a small field, all the more reason why none of
it should be flung away, and all the more reason
also why Premier Murray should get in early and
avoid the crush. The Employers’ Federation, as
was only to be expected, has already intimated to
the Government what direction it ought to follow
by strenuously urging it to take the opposite one.
The State, it clamors, is bound to make a mess of
things. Murray’s business is to lift up the chal-
lenge, and show that the State isn’t the incom-
petent fool that the Employers’ Federation alleges.
The Federation, of course, makes its charge imper-
sonal ; but when it says, in effect, that the State
is a blundering, incompetent ass, which is bound
to make a failure of a very simple business, what
it really alleges is that Murray, who acts for the
State, is a blundering, incompetent ass, hardly fit
to be trusted with a fruit-barrow. The question
now is whether Murray is going to let this charge
against him and his Mines Minister, Mcßride, go
by default. In that case, if he tacitly admits, that
the Employers’ Federation has summed him and
his colleague up correctly, it will be an invitation
to the State to try somebody else a trifle more
competent. So far as the business aspect of the
matter is concerned, the Federation hasn’t got a
leg to stand on ; and every commercial man of the
crowd knows it. Knox, of the Broken Hill Prop,
and the Hat, is a panjandrum of the Federation.
The Broken Hill Prop. Mining Co. wanted some
smelting done. Did Knox and his brethren trust
Private Enterprise to do it for them ? Not a
smelt ! Promptly they put up their own smelting
furnaces. For some years they sent their bullion
away and let Private Enterprise refine it; but
soon they got full up of Private Enterprise
and built their own refinery. For years
they bought flux. They soon got tired of
Private Enterprise in that connection, too, and
secured their own flux quarries ; and the same
with their coke supplies. The* Government, as
the owner of the railways, is the largest user of
coal in Victoria. It probably takes more than
any two of the combined coal and shipping cos.
put together. If the Employers’ Federation can
show that those coal-and-shipping cos. don’t be-
lieve in owning their own coal mines, or are-
opposed to having large interests in coal mines,
then The Bulletin will throw up the sponge, and
counsel Murray to let Private Enterprise have a
fling at the Powlett basin. On the other hand, if
these big coal-using concerns, run by the business
men who constitute the Employers’ Federation,
have found out the wisdom of having their own
coal-mining interests, then it surely is a fair
thing to ask the Employers’ Federation to leave
off being a mischievous traitor to the country.
And there will be no difficulty at all in proving that
these coal-using concerns have big coal-mining
interests. Thus Howard Smith’s are up to their
eyes in the Caledonian and Aberdare collieries;
only the other month the Adelaide Steamship Co.
bought a big block of North Bulli shares ; and
Mcllwraith-McEacharn are interested in the
Bellambi. Therefore when the Employers’’
Federation and Fat in general counsel Murray"
to have nothing to do with this coal business, it
not only throws a brick at his own capacity and
that of his colleagues, but it advises him against
doing a thing which its own scandalously un-
patriotic members know to be the only true and
safe business policy.
A Long Pull and a Strong Pull—on
Dudley’s Leg.
As long as Governor-General Dudley confined
liimself to shifting furniture and promoting
cricket-matches, he got along famously. But im-
mediately he entered the domain of politics he
was like the turtle, which, though slow, arrived in
time to get into the soup. Apparently the State
Frights gang got a fine, robust grip of his leg
before he reared up at Adelaide to make his first
faux pas, and heave a few bricks at the growing
body of people who believe in Unification. The
noble earl seems to have been stuffed with the
idea that Unification proposes to sweep away the
States and rule all Australia from one centre, by
one solitary and much overworked Parliament.
Up to the present, nobody but some mythical
lunatic invented by the morning Tory press has
suggested such a thing. And with a view to
preventing any Governor’s leg being un-
duly pulled in the future, The Bulletin
briefly explains what is aimed at by the people
who are now struggling to bring about the Unifi-
cation of Australia. At present the National
Parliament can only legislate on matters specifi-
cally handed over to it by the people of Australia.
In all other matters it is legally powerless, unless it
can effect its purpose by a side-wind, which isn’t a
satisfactory wind for a National Parliament to
have to use. The Unificationists do not propose
to do away with Local Government. They would
rather extend it by sweeping away the present
State Parliaments and creating several States in
each old one, which would have their local govern-
ment attended to by small, single-chamber legis-
latures deriving their authority from the
National Parliament. This may be impos-
sible, but it is found to be quite workable
in Canada, a place Governor-General Dudley
looked in at on his way to Australia.
At present we have the spectacle of jam manu-
facturers in Sydney being compelled to resort to
something like sweating to hold their own against
the jam-makers of Tasmania, where sweating is
rather encouraged than otherwise by the local
legislature. The State Parliament of N.S.W.
has appointed a tribunal to prevent sweating, but
it finds itself helpless in the jam business, as it
cannot prevent sweating in Tasmania. So the
Sydney employer who would be only too glad to
pay decent wages is compelled by the Tasmanian
sweater to pay his employees on a scale he is
genuinely ashamed of. And as long as the Tas-
manian jam-maker does not kick, the National
Parliament is powerless to interfere, as the regu-
lation of wages is a matter that was left as a
general thing to the jurisdiction of the States.
And the worst part of the business is that the
Governor-General has allowed himself to be made
the mouthpiece of the party that believes in the
Tasmanian sweater being allowed to sweat all
Australia. Which is rough on a well-meaning
Governor.
-
Two Industrial Acts: A Comparison.
Wade promised, when lie foisted his Industrial
Disputes Act on N.S.W., seven months ago, that
he would ‘'introduce reforms in it from time to
time as their need became apparent.” After
three months Wade’s eye lighted on a portion
which he considered could do with reformation,
and the S. M. Herald (16/9/’08) made this
announcement: —
The Premier proposes amendment of the Industrial
Disputes Act, but only so far as the schedule is con-
cerned. He gave notice in the Legislative Assembly,
last evening, of his intention to move that persons em-
ployed in ore smelting and refining works be added to the
schedule, and that with respect to the brewing trade the
schedule be altered slightly.
It was, as The Bulletin pointed out at the time,
a very mild dose of reform. In fact, it was so
mild that if it hadn’t been administered at all the
average citizen wouldn’t have noticed the differ-
ence. Always excepting its unfair discrimination
in favor of non-unionists, the features of the Act
which have clamored most loudly for amendment
are its hopeless machinery provisions, and its
cumbrous procedure; yet these have had no atten-
tion at all. For example, the claims of the union
at present being inquired into by the Clothing
Trade Board comprise 25 clauses ; and the second
of the clauses was still under consideration after
the Board had sat 44 days, and had examined 77
witnesses. The Act under which that sort of
thing is possible is the one concerning which the
S. M. Herald had the imperial rind to say on
June 30 last: —
Under it the Court has larger powers, and most of its
worst restrictions have disappeared. It has, moreover,
PROVIDED FOlt WAGES BOARDS, THEMSELVES A QUICK AND
READY ROAD TO THE SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES.
There are other objections to Wade’s ill-digested
measure besides the patent fact that it is the
exact opposite of “a quick and ready road to the
settlement of disputes.’’ While it has done little
or nothing to quiet industrial unrest, it has cost
the State a preposterous sum of mon<*y, and
threatens to go on doing so till a long-suffering
country rises up and scotches it. Sydney Daily
Telegraph made this sour announcement the
other day :
The Board consists of ten members, five representing
each side to the dispute, and the chairman, Mr. J.
Carlos, barrister-at-law. Each member of the Board is
paid Bs. per day, while* two of them, being from New-
castle, are paid travelling expenses in addition. The
•chairman is paid £1 per hour, so that if the Board sits four
•or five hours in a day be receives as many sovereigns for
the day’s sitting. ... It is generally considered that, at
the rate this Board is progressing, it will not reach the
ilast clause in the claim before Christmas. A simple cal-
culation will show approximately what this Board lias
cost the country up to date. Taking the sittings as
averaging four hours a day for the 44 days, the cost in
fees alone will be seen to be over £B5O, which must he
very considerably augmented when travelling expenses
and cost of transcribing evidence as well as other inci-
dental expenses are added. When it is remembered that
there are over 40 Wages Boards sitting, or thinking of
sitting, in connection with various industries, it is evi-
dent that the cost of this system to the country will
amount to an enormous sum before a year has gone by.
Compare with the above the record of the wilfully-
murdered Arbitration Act, as presented on the
morning of the day it passed out of existence by
the paper which was its bitterest assailant. As
to its administration —which cost the State, by
the way, no more per annum than the salaries of
a Court President and two members—the Herald
said (30/6/’08): —
It is not too much to say that never in the history of
industrial law anywhere have Judges shown more
patience, fairness, freedom from prejudice, and careful
tact than those who have presided over our Arbitration
Court. In the whole history of the Court, we do not
recall a case in which a decision was given which was
flagrantly opposed to that already formed by enlightened
public opinion. The intention of the Act was excellent,
hut it was largely frustrated as the result of High Court
decisions, which interpreted its language in the strictest
legal sense, etc., etc.
Of the Court’s achievements the same paper said
on the same date :
The Court has at different times apparently prevented
at least two big strikes—a coal strike and a wharf strike.
It has caused both employers and employees to organise.
Mr G. C Addison, the registrar, compiled the figures up
to the end of 1906. In 1902 there were 112 associations
•of employers with 2302 members; in 1906, 131 uinoii>
with 3172 members. Of employees, in 1902 there were 103


unions, 59,500 members ; in 1906, 120 unions, 86,000 mem-
bers. To-day there are 133 unions of employers, and 147
of employees. As for agreements, 74 employers or their
associations agreed with 72 unions of employees in 91
agreements. As for hearings, 233 cases were filed, 111
were heard and awards made, and 94 settled.
It is no mean record this of the Arbitration Act,
whichever way it is regarded. On the other hand,
the record, so far, of the measure which has sup-
planted it can only be described as appalling in the
way of expense, chaos, and inefficiency. It is
obvious that the time has arrived for Wade to
supply his dreadful Act with more of the reform
promised by him last year. But the question is :
Is any treatment, except assassination, going to
be of the least use ?
Sosh. Scores Another Convert.
Without delivering itself of one word of rebuke,
the Sydney Evening News announced, the other
day, that “ the fruit-growers in the Cum-
berland and other districts ” (the sturdy Individu-
alists who return Joe Cook and Dugald Thom-
son to the Australian Parliament) had “ ap-
proached Mayor Allen Taylor and asked to be
treated in the same way as the fishermen under
the new system.” Their idea is that, as soon as
the new fruit-markets are ready, the City
Council should step in and take delivery
of all fruit and auction it, as it has
been auctioning the fish during the past few
weeks. Provided the Council does this, the
growers are prepared to submit to any terms,
however drastic, that the City Fathers may think
fit to impose with the object of protecting the
public against bad or dear fruit,'Or Doth. In one
sense, the action of the fruit-growers is not sur-
prising. The example of the fishermen has
taught them things. The fishermen freely admit
that they are getting more money, as a result of
the Council’s action at Woolloomooloo, than they
ever got through the middlemen agents; and
they are getting it regularly, which wasn’t
the case before. The fruit-grower has for
years been a bad sufferer at the hands
of Private Enterprise fiends at the Sydney end.
If he walked in the wealthier part of the city
in the season, he had the galling experience
of seeing fruit selling in an unsound state at six
times the price he got for it when it was sound.
Municipalisation, if carried far enough, would
change that: A Council concern isn’t supposed to
reap exorbitant profits. It is not an essential that the
concern should amassenough cash in a few years to
take theCouneil to Italy orGreece and keep it there
for the rest of its days. It lives, as it were, by
the grace of the people. If the consumer’s Council
sets out to control the fruit industry, the consumer
will have good fruit on sale at a reasonable
price ; if he can’t get it he will insist
on knowing the reason why. If the Council
doesn’t provide a satisfactory reason why, the
public will jump on the erring body with both
feet. One of the things that distinguishes a Dago
from a council is the fact that the Law will not
allow the public to jump with both feet on the
Dago. Under a system of municipalisation, pro-
vided it is thorough, it is safe to say that the
rotten peach and the decayed orange will shortly
be rare circumstances in Sydney shops. Which
would advantage the fruitgrower’s pocket as much
as it would the consumer’s inside. As above-
noted, the action of the fruitgrowers in clamoring
for the introduction of the curse of Socialism to
their industry is in one way not surprising.
But in another way it is very surprising. The
grower has ranked hitherto with the cow-cocky as
a hard barracker for Private Enterprise, and a
good hater of State Interference. His change of
front is as complete as though a P.L. Leaguer in
the employ of the railways came to the Minister
and urged that the State Railway system should
be saved from ruin by being handed over to the
control of the Sydney Ferries Co., or the Coloniiil
Sugar Refining Co. But your convinced Anti-
Socialist has a way of being illogical like that.
The great and abiding public blessing is that every
one of him invariably sees the necessity for
Socialism in the case of the particular industry he
happens to understand.
♦—
Sing Lee says he is Not Guilty.
The Australian who doesn’t think has the idea
that the Australian who does think wants to shut
out Sing Lee because Sing Lee is liable to rob
him of his job by offering to work longer hours
for less pay. The fact that Sing Lee does
work longer hours for less pay is, however,
merely an incident in the trouble—merely
one of the manifestations of Sing Lee’s
disease, He is really objected to because
he is the sort of being that he is—a person whose
manner of living is different, whose morals are
different, whose immorals even are different and
more repulsive. He works long hours for small pay
because he doesn’t mind living in a hovel; in
fact, no matter what house he lives in he turns it
into a hovel if it isn’t a hovel already, simply
because the hovel supplies his natural surround-
ings. And, since he must live in a hovel, it is
absolutely certain that he must think in hovels.
Many a man lives in a hovel from force of cir-
cumstances, and the hovel life disgusts him ; but
Ah Chow isn’t that sort of man. The hovel doesn’t
disgust him. It suits him. Moreover, just as he
drags down every dwelling he occupies to the
hovel level, so he drags down every locality he
frequents to the same degradation. The poison is
there all the time, contaminating everything; it
is the atmosphere that he breathes, and everybody
about him must breathe it also. Therefore, while
there are Chinese, there must be these things :
Sing Lee, a Chinese, pleaded not guilty at the Sydney
Quarter Sessions on Feb. 16 to a charge of the abduc-
tion of a girl aged 14£ years.
According to the Crown case, the girl (whose parents
were dead)lived with a married step-sister at Waverley.
The Chinaman kept a fruit shop a couple of hundred
yards away, and the girl became acquainted with him
through going to the shop for fruit. The accused had
frequently asked her to go and live with him, and finally,
it was alleged, she packed a carry-all and went to his
shop, staying with him in his room for two days and two
nights.
The jury found a verdict of guilty.
He pleaded not guilty. And the chances are
that he didn’t know he was guilty. He was
just being natural—just being, in White Austra-
lian eves, the filthy, lecherous, poisonous, ruinous
hog that he can’t help being. Probably from his
point of view the Caucasian is a fool to worry over
girls who drift into brothels. Certainly, from his
point of view, the white person is a fool for sur-
rounding his women with such expensive homes
and setting them up on so lofty a pedestal.
He knows, in his own hoggish way, what
they are for, and it astonishes him when
any objection is raised to his vile schemes
for putting them to that purpose. We may sen-
tence him to v gaol for his abductions; but we
can’t change what has became his nature. He
doesn’t want to change it; it was his ancestors’
way, and he venerates his ancestors, while he
despises the white man : the foolish, incompre-
hensible, scurrilous white man who thinks of his
children and his grandchildren, and doesn’t care
two straws about his dead grandfather. If SING
Lee said he was guilty there might be some hope
for him ; it might mean chat he had realised the
fact that our ways are not his, and that while he
is here ours are the ways that have to be followed.
But he doesn’t realise it, and never will, so long
as he is Sing Lee the Chow ; and, therefore, so
long as he is Sing Lee the Chow he will be a
danger and a degradation, and the only way to
deal with him is to shut him out.
♦
The Treatment of Black Brother in the Far
Nor’-West.
The Bulletin receives the following letter from
the Kimberley district (W.‘A. ); and along with i
comes a covering letter which at least establishes
the good faith of the writer :
During over 20 years’ experience of the treatment
blacks are subjected to in the northern parts of Australia
I have seen some queer sights ; but for cold-blooded and
calculating cruelty, and long-drawn-out misery, the West
Kimberley district is an easy first. The police locate and
“rush” a native camp, generally at daybreak, and
with the aid of their trackers, who are armed,
secure all the able-bodied bucks tbey can, chain-
ing them up by the neck, about 2ft. apart, on
a long chain. This chain is never removed until
they are handed over in Derby, anything up to 200
miles distant. The camp is then turned over to the
trackers, and the police have been heard to declare that,
were it not for the young gins they get in these raided
camps, their trackers would not stay with them. The
daily food of the prisoners (for which the police are
allowed a small sum—about Is. 6d. or 2s. per head per
day) is a lump of kangaroo, if lucky, and a few handfuls
of flour, made into thin skilly. There is also the same
allowance for native witnesses; also an allowance
for trackers. Therefore the police don’t follow
small mobs of natives, the real offenders at
cattle-killing, preferring, as is only natural under
the circumstances, to go on or beyond the out-
skirts of the settled country, where the blacks are more
unsophisticated, and knock about in bigger mobs. The
bigger the mob captured, the more profitable it is for the
police. This past 12 months, somewhere about 100 bucks
have been taken in mobs of from 16 to 25 from this dis-
trict alone. Reckoning three or four witnesses with each
mob and the trackers’ allowance, it will be seen that it is
a profitable game.
Admissions of guilt are extracted with a waddv, ana
the evidence of a few bones or a piece of greefihide is
easily procured on a cattle station. The blacks are
arrested on the complaint of any station-hand, and some-
times the complaint is fixed up after the mob is arrested.
If you ask how the women and children fire while
the bucks are doing their time in gaol, jou
will be assured that “they get plenty tucker
in the bush ”; but the miserable and emaciated
condition of the poor wretches, and the fact that,
rendered desperate by hunger, the gins have several
times came in close to the police station, and have killed,
carried away and eaten milking goats belonging to the
police, gives the lie to this assertion. Anyone that knows
the mortal dread the bush natives have of the police can,
from this, form some idea of the straits they are reduced
to. I have never yet seen a gin that could use a spear,
the weapon chiefly used by the natives while hunting in
these parts. This state of semi-starvation of the women
and children continues for from six months up to two
years, or more, according to the sentences received by
the bucks.
The absence of revengeful feelings in the natives is well
exemplified by the fact that during the years this bit of
country has been settled, there have only been two cases
of spearing. One victim was a policeman speared while
“ rushing” a native camp ; the other, a cook employed
on Mt. House Station. Neither was seriously wounded.
When you consider the occupations incidental to cattle
stations, which isolate men for periods extending from a
few days to five or six weeks at a time, it cannot be said
that want of opportunity stays their hands.
Commissions of inquiry, aboriginal protectors’ visits,
etc., area ghastly farce. Thus, at the time of Dr. Roth’s
inquiry, when it was known that he would visit this dis-
trict, a man was supplied with a fast horse, and did the
quickest trip on record out here to warn the police of his
intended visit. Also, when the Protector, Mr. Jas.
Isdell, visited here recently, every man in the district
was aware of his intended visit three weeks beforehand.
I am aware that it is easier to point out an abuse than
to devise a remedy ; but don’t you think that it would
lessen the evil if, instead of giving a money allowance to
the police for prisoners’, witnesses’, and trackers’ rations,
the Government supplied rations? The present system
is equivalent to giving so much per head per day for
every native captured ; and, were it placed beyond the
power of the police (humorously supposed to be their
protectors) to derive any profit from trafficking in their
hunger and misery, the falling off in the number of pri-
soners would be surprising. When a man sees the
condition of these unfortunate beings—their Country
settled on and stocked without any recompense or
provision being made for their welfare, the men
gaoled for being alive, their women violated, and
both women and children forced to live in semi-starvation
—he does not feel too proud to be called a citizen of the
Commonwealth, which, while expressing indignation at
oppression in Korea and atrocities in the Congo, permits
the original owners of this country, who are too feeble
and ignorant to even protest against their spoliation, to
be treated with such inhumanity.
♦
The Parlous State of Victoria.
One of the first documents issued by A. M.
Laughton, Vic.’s new Government Statist, covers
the vital statistics of his State for the past year ;
and, hitched on to previous figures, they make
just as gloomy reading as the last part of Dante’s
Purgatory. Here is the record for the last two
vears: —
1907. 1908.
Marriages .. 9,575 9,334 Slump, 241
Births .. 31,369 31,101 „ 268
Deaths .. 14,542 15,767 Increase, 1225
To let Victoria down as lightly as he can, Statist
Laughton mentions that 1907 was an exceptional
year. But the apology isn’t as good as it
ought to be. Fifteen years previously—in 1892
the births totalled 37,831; so that, instead of be-
coming more numerous, as the little infant should
in any healthy young country, there were actually
6462 less of him in what the Statist calls the “ ex-
ceptionally favorable ” year 1907 than there was
15 years previously. In the natural order of
things, and even without any gain of parents by
immigration, there should have been at least 6000
more births ; instead, there were over 6000 less.
But while the births were fewer the deaths were
more numerous. In the five years 1900-4 the
average was 15,457 per annum ; for 1908 the total
was 15,767. It is, of course, obvious that
if this disastrous state of affairs were to
continue, and there were no gains by im-
migration, the time would rush along when the
State would be empty of population. Yet the
position is, in one sense, worse even than the fore-
going figures indicate. Melbourne shows a recent
increase in births ; the shrinkage is therefore in
the country. Thanks to Protection, the city has
a host of prosperous factories, where employees
can afford to marry and have families. In the
country, however, two tremendous forces effectu-
ally prevent that normal expansion of population
which is absolutely indispensable to the safety of
Australia. The first is the locking-up of produc-
tive lands in the hands of a non-productive few,
by which means the young farmers are either
driven abroad for land or compelled to remain
single on the “old man’s” farm. The second
cause is the shockingly low wage paid for practi-
cally all country labor, which has very much the
same result as a law forbidding marriage. Even
in the wealthy dairying centres of the Western
district there are hundreds of men, between the
ages of 20 and 35, working for 15s. and their
board—and usually only for a portion of the year
even at that wage. To these men marriage is a
mirage, and their chance of settling down in a
home of their own is about as remote as their
employers’ chance of settling down in Heaven.
A Soft Snap for Japan.
Said the London Draper’s Record recently
with a palpable sob in its voice
One of the present sensations of the trade is due to the
importation of “ Irish ” linen goods from the land of the
wily Jap. The detail and elaboration of the work are
alike astonishing. The prices are even more so.
It is an entire sermon compressed into four
lines on the futility of the present fiscal policy
of the United Kingdom. We may fairly assume
that the bogus linen from “ the land of the wily
Jap ” comes into effective competition with the
genuine Irish stuff. The goods that the Draper’s
Record finds “astounding” in their “detail
and elaboration ” are more than likely to
deceive British consumers, who live and
have their being in a very bewilderment
of shoddy. One of Ireland’s few remaining in-
dustrial props is the linen-making industry of
Belfast. The Irish worker has learned by dire
necessity to exist on very little. Porridge, pota-
toes, bread and milk daily, and, as a luxury, a bit
of bacon twice or thrice a week, are his staple
fare. But, since he is a Caucasian and a descendant
of well-feeding forbears, it is vitally necessary
that he should absorb at least that much susten-
ance. It is impossible for him to do it on less
than 9s. or 10s. a week. Not so the Jap, who
keeps well and fat on rice and water at a
weekly wage of 2s. to 2s. 6d. The Irish opera-
tive will need to suffer a physiological change
that does not occur ordinarily in a race
under many centuries before he may hope
to compete industrially on level terms with
his dirt-cheap-living brown ally. Census
returns show that the Hibernian is leaving
his country in such myriads that since the bless-
ing of Cobdenistn eventuated the population of
Ireland has dropped from 8,175,000 to 4,378,000,
The odds seems to be that before the Irish linen-
worker can accustom himself to competing, man
for man, with his alien rival in the “ pure keen air
of Freetrade,” the land of his birth will be a
deserted waste, and its last remaining industry
located in Nippon.
The ingenuity of the big landholder in discovering
reasons why he should be allowed to sit, un-
molested, on the chest of the community, is some-
thing marvellous. A various assortment of guns
is now being directed at the head of the Victorian
land-monopolist, and, in consequence, he is pour-
ing out his soul in the Argus. One of the latest
to do the pouring is a gentleman named Moles-
worth R. Greene, who has—ah —an estate named
—aw —Graystanes. He says that if there is a new
land-tax, it will mean confiscation; wherefore,
towards the middle of his letter, Mr. Greene gets
pathetic :
I picture to myself an expropriated landowner leaving
Australia, with bitterness in his heart, to reside in a
London flat; too old to make new friends, and turned
out of the country which he had spent the best years of
his life developing.
As a preliminary, Mr. Greene can safely be ad-
vised to dry his tears. The trouble is that the big
landlord won’t leave the country. The late ThOS.
Shaw used to declare annually, for many years,
that he was about to leave the country. He was
one of the biggest landlords in the West. But he
died on his estate, and now his sons have cheer-
fully shouldered his burden. The flight of the
landlord, “with bitterness in his heart,”isa myth
of the same order as the flight of capital. It is
even a more foolish legend, as, even if the big
landowner does go, he can’t take his land with
him. But Mr. Greene proceeds further with his
parable :
Much has been said about the exodus of our young
men. The exodus has not been from Australia, but from
one Australian State to another. . . . Let us be thankful
we are assisting to people the Commonwealth.
Mr. Greene is thankful for very small mercies.
His own State, with almost illimitable possibili-
ties, has an almost stationary population. All
over it there are huge estates, silent and vacant,
save for a few sheep areas, which should be dotted
with smiling homesteads and humming with in-
dustry. Farmers’ sons, unable to obtain land, are
streaming overall the borders ; and MOLESWORTH
Greene reckons it is something to be thankful for.
An easily-satisfied man is Mr. Molesworth
Greene, of Graystanes.
♦
S. M. Herald’s special correspondent recently
went forth to sift the Riverina (N.S.W.) district
for wheat farmers, and later on he explained to
his paper why this famous wheat country didn’t
yie'.d as many wheat farmers to the square mile as
it ought:—
Germanton’s very existence is a dumb cry for closer
settlement. It is surrounded by Woomagama, Yarra,
Stonebroke, Annandale, Wantagjong, Kinross, Round
Hill, and Carabobla, all large holdings up to 70,000 acres.
Again, on the Cowra side are great sheep runs, which
should be wheat-farms. The Southern State is in a worse
plight. Six men own the river from Yarrawonga to
Albury. Mr. William Ltnk not long ago complained that.
The Australian Point of View.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As regards colored immigration, Britishers would do
well to consider that question from the Australian point
of view. It was physically impossible for Great Britain
to be swamped by colored labor; hut as regards the
Asiatic, Australia was very differently placed. Therefore
it was quite conceivable, from the Australian standpoint,
that, unless the Australians rigidly secured themselves
against the possibility of being swamped by Asiatic labor,
they might be confronted with a problem even more
serious than the great negro question in the United
States. The grim pluck and determination which the
Australians had shown in developing their country was
worthy of all eulogy.— Lord Northcote’s straight tip to
J. Bull.
Are you listening, sleepy Britain? Can you
blame us if wc differ—
If we scan the Empire’s safety from a point of
vantage new ?
We are up against a Danger that has set our
spines much stiffer,
Yea, a dreadful kind of Trouble that can never
fall on you !
In yon musty Empire-attic
You have drowsed—but most emphatic
Is your need for Empire-gazing from Australia’s
Point of View !
Kaiser Bill —his troops are Christian, but the
Monkey’s ways are heathen,
His proceedings in Korea savor strong of morals
few ;
’Tis a crowded land and hungry that his Pagan
millions seethe in—
We must launch our ships of battle lest we suffer
pain and rue !
Hence our earnest adjuration—
Shall it turn to execration ?
Try to scan the vasty Hempire from Australia’s
Point of View !
The United States, O Britain ! they were yours ip
years grown hoary,
’Twas a one-eyed king that lost them ; would you
lose new countries too ?
Heed the warning plain before you, heed that
ancient blood-stained story !
Bunker’s Hill—the price was bitter ; do you wish
to pay anew ?
Heed the tip that Northcote proffers—
Never mind your blessed coffers—
Lest your Empire fall for ever, heed Australia’s
Point of View !
Here’s a Continent to work for—a great Land
whose soil is teeming ,
With such wealth the Temple-Builder and his
Sheba never knew ;
Here’s a Nation young and eager—lo, its star is
brightly gleaming—
Try to understand Australia, Land of White Men
brave and true !
Though we sleep on fields drought-smitten,
We are here to stay, .0 Britain—
Can’t you scan the Empire’s future from Aus-
tralia’s Point of View ?
We have warred with drought and famine—shall
the Land we toiled for perish,
Land of stalwart sons, O Britain—men who bravely
battled through ?
We, the children of the Bushland, 10, our Con-
tinent we cherish—
Hear our axes, hear them ringing as our Forward
Path we hew !
We, the new White Race Australian,
Hold this Land against the alien—
Can’t you see our Land of Promise from Aus-
tralia’s Point of View ?
We have tamed the sand-swept desert, bound the
strong young States together,
We have suffered—yea, have labored, earning
dividends for you ;
We have linked our hands, O Britain, tied our
destinies a-tether,
We are grafting for the Future—hear our anthem
rolling new !
For the Days that lie before us,
Lo, we raise our strong heart’s-Chorus.
Won’t you join us? Sing, O Britain—’tis the
New Land’s Point of View !
’Tis a Land all done with whining—Land of song
and deep soul-laughter ;
Land of freedom—Land immortal, with her skies
like Hellas’ blue;
’Tis a Land that hails the Toiler, hails the strong,
determined Grafter,
These alone we reckon noble—Men With Strength
to Dare and Do !
’Tis the Creed, Old Land, that made you—
And with world-wide power arrayed you,
Can’t you understand our Gospel—our Australian
Point of View ?
There were years for you of weakness—dost recall
them, ancient Britain ?
Years of struggle, years of labor, ere your flag
triumphant flew ;
Lo ! ’tis thus we see our future, see our star all
glory-litten,
O, the Days of Might before us, flashing days of
nameless hue !
Days of strength all splendid—blazing,
When our ships their flags are raising—
Can’t you understand us, Britain—the Young
Nation’s Point of View?
You are old, hut we are growing — aye, our spines
are waxing stiffer ;
We have scanned the Days before us from a scene of
vantage new ;
We must face the Danger looming—can you blame
us if we differ?
For the Trouble we are facing cannot come, Old
Land, to You !
In your distant Empire attic
You have drowsed —but most emphatic
Ts the Need for Empire-Gazing from Australia's
Point of View !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
Treachery!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Thibetans at Guru and elsewhere were found to be
using Russian rifles. The leading English journals made
very severe comments on this treacherous conduct.—
Recent Revieiv on a history of the Thibet campaign.
The Lama up in Lhassa —he’s a guileful sort of
man,
He saw our Tommies toiling up the Hills of
Hindostan ;
He knew how weak and shaky were his Buddhist
soldiery,
He knew the British didn’t fear his Sacred
Majesty ;
And when he thought he’d get a knock, in place
of fighting fair
And only hurling at the foe the spears he had to
spare,
He dropped his. bow and arrows and his jingals
speedilee,
And went and got a Russian gun and practised
Treacheree !
He loaded up the Russian gun with powder and
with ball,
And bade his minions pickle us from ev’ry handy
wall;
And we, who only thought to meet a savage with
a club —
We got a hail of bullets where we mostly put our
grub ;
And the Holy One at Lhassa, in a most unholy
way,
Kept sending on the cartridges to keep us all
at bay ;
0, he may be quite Celestial, but his blessed
Musketree
It was made at Russian Riga—with an eye to
Treacheree !
Now, I hold it is not proper for a Prophet in
Thibet
To go in for modern weapons and his sacred r6le
forget;
He should ban us down to Hades, he should load
us with a curse,
He should fight us with a blowpipe, or with some-
thing little worse;
But to go a-getting rifles off the hairy Muscovite,
With a view to potting Britishers, it surely wasn’t
right!
We can stand his bows and arrows and his curses
three-times-three,
But the use of Russian Rifles is Disgraceful
Treacheree !
Q.
PHILANDER FLAM.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS ARE- NOW READY TO RECEIVE.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
Cinematograph Films.
250,000 feet of Films for HIRE.
NEW SUBJECTS arriving EVERY WEEK.
Instruments and all Accessories Stocked.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
In spite of always possible imperfections,
the Australian XI. should be able to guard those
ashes against the assaults of England’s best. In
all things brains are the final test. And the
brains of athletes, inspired by D.C.L. Whisky,
must be too mighty to suffer decisive defeat.
D.C.L. is the moving spirit of the active mind
and body.*
hfs'elec torauf 2,000,000 acres of fc'°°d agricultural land in
And by way of showing the sort of country the
sheep own :
Outside of Gernianton are five brothers, named Hulmk,
scientific farmers, all doing well on holdings that average
about 1000 acres. Their combined holdings amount to
• about one-fifth of an average station. Resumptions are
costly things, unfortunately, and perhaps the State has
already undertaken sufficient for some time.
So, presumably, because “resumptions are costly
A/ l o^>oo l °7* ng to fc * ie fact wlnch the Herald noted
(LU/z/ 09) that vendors of land always “ put their
heads together to financially exploit the public
necessity to the utmost,” the great sheep-runs
that should be wheat-farms will just have to go on
being sheep-runs, as far as the Herald can see.
Ihe frequency with which the Herald manages
to rush right up to the progressive land-tax and
then stop dead without bruising its nose on the
beastly thing is remarkable.
♦
The New Governor of N.S.W.
Hew South Wales is not flattered in the selection
°* /? ri Chelmsford to follow Sir Harry Rawson
as Governor of the Ma State. Apart from the
remarkable blunder which Lieutenant-Governor
Harley was induced to make by the Wade-
Garruthers crowd over the wire-netting theft, no
Grown representative in Australia has made so
bad and dangerous a break as Chelmsford did in
Queensland at the latter end of 1907. Premier
Kidston, unable to get his legislation through the
nominee Chamber of Fats, asked for the appoint-
ment of more nominees. Chelmsford refused,
l lien Kidston resigned. Chelmsford accepted
the resignation, and sent for Philp. The
Assembly—the elected representatives of Queens-
land scouted the very idea of Philp. Never-
theless, Philp asked the House for time to
form a Ministry. Kidston, however, took charge
of the proceedings, and moved the adjournment of
the House, not for a week as Philp had desired,
but for a day. Kidston’s motion was carried by
a large majority, and Philp was thus defeated.
But, instead of Philp returning his commission,
Governor Chelmsford interceded with Kidston
on the defeated man’s behalf, and a longer adjourn-
ment was granted, during which Philp formed a
Cabinet. With it he met the House—the House
which had previously intimated that it didn’t
trust him—and again the House defeated him
at once. It refused to grant him Supply—refused
to trust him. Philp ought to have instantly re-
signed ; if he wouldn’t, the Governor ought to
have dismissed him, for no less than six motions,
hostile to Philp, had been thundered into Chelms-
ford’s ear by the Parliament. But the Governor
seemed to be simply consumed with agreat desire to
have the Philp party in power. Therefore, when
Philp asked for a dissolution it was granted.
There was no question at the time of Kidston’s
ability to carry on. The Assembly, by carrying
Kidston’s motions, had said that it was pre-
pared to go on supporting him. On the other
hand, it had not once agreed to anything
that Philp had proposed. And yet Chelmsford
dissolved Parliament, and thus handed over the
government of the country and the control of the
elections to a leader who had been six times in
rapid and emphatic succession expressly repudi-
ated by the Assembly. It was a usurpation, of
power of which the Assembly first and the State
soon afterwards expressed a decided opinion.
Not for years had an elective body been so
directly and persistently flouted ; and a demand
for the recall of Chelmsford was inevitable.
What transpired between him and the authorities
in England is not known for certain; but it is
known for certain that the constitutionalists de-
clared Chelmsford to have been entirely wrong.
Yet, apparently, so bad a break as that is not
reckoned to the discredit of a man in connection
with the Governorship of N. S. Wales. It is
highly probable that-the Wade Government was
consulted beforehand ; and if it was, one can
easily believe that the Wade Government replied
that Lord Chelmsford was a man after its own
heart, and that it would welcome him with en-
thusiasm. It is very clear, however, that, per-
sonally charming and all that though he may be, a
very close watch will have to be kept upon Lord
Chelmsford, particularly while the Wade
Government is at hand to whisper things into his
receptive ear.
o
Westrali.a used to take the roughest edge off its
policy of pawn and plunge by providing a decent
sinking fund to wipe out its loans ; but it has
given even that up now, and gone just about the
whole disreputable hog of improvidence. In con-
nection with the million and a half loan just
authorised, the sinking fund is to be cut down to
h per cent. That is to say, at the best the debt
will not be wiped out for 66 years; and as the
money is to be put into roads, culverts, gaols, and
hospital outhouses, and in scooping’silt out of vari-
ous harbors and alleged harbors, it is absolutely
certain that the works will be worn out long
before the loan is provided for. When that hap-
pens, the next generation will have to pay (1) for
the new works, (2) the sinking-fund contribution
on the old debt, and (3) the interest on the full
amount of the old debt. And probably about
that time it will also have to pay an income tax of
2s. or 3s. in the £ by way of Defence contribution.
( After even the comparatively small Boer shindy
Britain had to pay an income tax of Is. 3d. in the
£.) Just about that time it seems highly proba-
ble that Westralia will go out in great bitterness
and throw clods at the tombstones of the men
who, in times of peace and comparative fatness,
didn’t pay for their own culverts and outhouses.
The people who howl against immigration re-
striction laws ought to turn up the records of
Judge Cook’s Court at San Francisco and learn a
lesson. On a recent date (December 26) his
Yankee Honor had up before him John Griffin,
“ a young man who had pleaded guilty to a charge
of robbery.’’ Griffin, it seems, is a native of
’Frisco ; but as he has turned out a poor lot, and,
according to the evidence, has become a morphine
fiend, the Judge reckoned that the cheapest
thing to do with him was to get him out of
America. Wherefore, said Judge Cook, “I
will give him one chance. If he will go
to Australia I will suspend sentence for
five years. ’ The young man’s attorney offered to
get him out of the State. “It is not sufficient
that he leave the State,” the ’Frisco Call reports
the Judge to have replied ; “ he must go to Aus-
tralia. And if he comes back to the United
States within five years he will be brought into
court for sentence.’’ According to the same
paper’s report of the case, Griffin had been four
months in a lunatic asylum before he was brought
up for trial ; so, altogether, it is a pretty cheerful
sort of a present that Judge Cook proposes to
give Australia ; and it isn’t the first present of the
same sort the same Judge has given Australia,
either. Under the circumstances, it seems a fair
thing for the Australian Customs people to look
hard at any American immigrants that come this
way, and ask them whether they happen to be
Cook’s tourists.
. ♦
One night, recently, the Sydney Evening News
pushed the daily corpse into the corner and called
the office-boy to move the inquest aside while it
indulged in an aimless and badly-reasoned whoop
regarding the respective business capacities of the
man who resides in Sydney and the person who
addresses his invoices from Melbourne. The pro-
gress of the two shamefully bloated capitals was
compared, and it was pointed out with glee by the
News that Sydney has, during the past few years,
forged ahead, and is now much more bloated than
the place Batman started some years ago by the
Yarra. _ The News triumphantly advanced this as
convincing proof that the Sydney man was
just as enterprising and energetic as the person
further south. And then it abruptly ceased its
song of triumph and flew off to perch awhile
on another topic without so much as mentioning
the obvious reason for all this. When Sydney was
suffering fromFreetrade—or a diluted variety of the
disease—it had no occasion to call the attention of
everyone to the immense lead it had on Mel-
bourne—because Melbourne was then in front.
It would probably have stayed in front, had not
Victoria combined with the other States to rescue
Sydney from its condition of fiscal ignorance.
The question of which is really the smarter—-the
Sydney business man or the Melbourne one—is one
of those dreary, profitless, and never-to-be-settled
arguments that are only fit for the primeval dark-
ness of the cheap lodging-house. But in the
semi-Freetrade days Sydney dragged such a
burden behind it that it had no real chance to
show what it could do.
4.
“ 0.K.” : A glaring shoi’tcoming in the Victorian
Railways business is the lack of a luggage and
parcels transport service in the cities. I don’t
know whether Victoria is behind the other States
in this respect. If there be the same neglect of
Government business at the expense of the public
throughout the Commonwealth, the scandal is the
more marked. In Melbourne, as one is often re-
minded, the trade in removing personal luggage
to railway stations is left to an autocratic body of
carriers who charge high rates, and only take the
work when it suits them. In some of the
northern suburbs the “calls” for a carrier to
collect luggage are ignored for days at a time, as
though to compel the would-be customers to
summon cabs to convey them and their belongings
to the railway station. But even in districts
where there is a competition of carriers, and one
or other may be called to the job by a wary
applicant within a reasonable time, the trouble
and expense are unnecessarily great. How comes
it that the Railway Department has been allowed
to play into the hands of Private Enterprise—
and a very inefficent Private Enterprise at that—
by ignoring the need for a Departmental service
of luggage conveyance? The Railways should
have offices in the city and suburbs where “calls”
may be lodged and fees paid in advance. Here
in Melbourne the want of this important branch
of what in Europe is ordinary railway business is
emphasised by the fact that a private carrying
firm has an office on the Government Railway
platform at Spencer-street.
“ Pioton ” has an idea :
The milkman who thoughtlessly augments the products
of his cows at the pump, or whose cows insist on produc-
ing a liquid which a self-respecting, virtuous cow
shouldn’t, is heavily sat upon by the Law. So also is the
economical shopkeeper who shrouds his sausages in the
Abo. column of The Bulletin, or wraps up the family’s
dough supply in paper on which the printer’s devil has
wiped his fingers. But the Law stops at the front door,
so to speak ; and where the milkman, the butcher, the
baker and the Law leave off, Mrs. Hash-house begins.
The milk which the Law has been so careful to preserve
intact for the lodger’s breakfast is converted by her into
a thin coloring liquid which no animal would recognise as
lost property. No amount of moral suasion seems to
affect Mrs. Hash-house, wherefore it is about time the
mighty Law got down on her. Why not spare a few of those
inspectors who lie in wait for the nimble “milky” and
track his spoor to the village pump ? If these "officers
made periodic raids at breakfast time on suspected
houses, they would obtain information enough to pro-
vide court cases for a year. The present law may not be
extensive enough to include Mrs. Hash-foundry, but
some benefactor might at least institute proceedings
against her as a person who makes a living by “ occult
means,” using hypnotic influence to persuade the victim
that a piece of grizzled meat once formed portion of the
frame of an ox. Likewise the Dago, who supplies ice
cream to street nippers (whose idea of pure ice cream is
that it shall be wet and cold), gets a severe shock of about
£2 should his composition be deficient in “fatty solids.”
Nothing, however, happens to the lady whose poor
“ guests ” consume suspicious dishes still "more deficient
in “fatty solids’’—which, judging from the import-
ance attached to them in connection with ice
cream, I presume to be a compounded elixir of life.
Unless the mighty Law does get a move on in this direc-
tion, the lodger of the next generation will possess a
small head with an iron jaw devoid of teeth, set upon a
feeble, bony shank, with a football protuberance at the
waist line, the result of a fruitless effort to secure his
natural allowance of “fatty solids” by distending his
abdomen with unlimited quantities of a cheap farinaceous
diet.
♦
Australia, at the present time, is a heap of
nation-making material that requires the fire of
war to weld it together. A good, large war scare
(not the mere froth of the press, but something
definite that would wipe out in one flash the
memory of Wade, and Bent, and State boundaries
and things like that) would be a godsend to a
country that, otherwise, seems doomed for long
years to muddle along anyhow as regards the
big national questions, while the things worth
2d. or less engross the attention of its legislators.
Yet Australia has been doing a little in the de-
fence line lately, in its own characteristic way.
A while back two 6-inch quickfiring guns
were ordered for the forts at Queenscliff
(Vic.). They were not ordered from the
Australian arsenal, because we haven’t got such a
tiling on the premises; they were sent for to
England, and many weary months elapsed before
they were dumped on the Melbourne wharf after
their long voyage across the world. (The possible
invader might have steamed along in the mean-
time, but, as luck would have it, he didn’t.) After
an interval of quiet repose on the wharf, the
weapons were forwarded to Queenscliff, where
the gunnery experts sorted things out and found
that the people in England had forgotten to send
a number of essential parts. It being impossible
to mount the guns without these, a despatch, or
a postcard, or something of the kind was written
to the people at the other end of the earth, tell-
ing them to send the lost goods along. (Here again
the invader might have occurred, but once more he
didn’t.) About the time the grass was growing
green on top of the two Gin. Q.F.’s at Queens-
cliff, the belated jewellery was lifted out of
another ocean-weary ship and cast down on the
wharf at Melbourne. In most countries soldiers
would have been waiting to take charge of them
as soon as they were clear of the ship’s slings.
Not so in Australia ; they were allowed to rust
idly for three weeks before anyone arrived to
drag them to Queenscliff. (Here, too, the invader
could have shot in a vicious left, but for some
reason he neglected to do so.) Now, after an in-
terval of many weeks, the morning paper
triumphantly announces that the two quick-firers
are mounted and ready for the foe. If Australia
had ever heard a foreign gun fired in anger, and
listened to the soul-searching scream of a big
shell, it would take the big question of Defence a
little more seriously than this.
A Lane Cove (Sydney) fisherman boasts of
having refused gold on three different occasions
this present shark season. He names female sensa-
tion-hunters, adorned with big society brands,
who have pestered him to take them “ sharking,”
and offered as much as two sovereigns for every
shark he would allow them to harpoon. “ It’s not
woman’s work,” says Shellback. “I once took a
lady on the terms, and when I had a 10ft. grey
nurse hooked I gave her the harpoon and told her
to drive. I caught her face with the tail of my
eye. She was a handsome woman, but her look
when shooting the harpoon was the look of a devil.
She struck right enough, and danced hysterically
all the time we dragged the brute ashore. She
killed her husband afterwards. You remember
the case ? ”
From “Josephus,” of Bondi :
A fellow-feeling caused me to read, with wondrous
kindness, the disclaimer from the pen of Rev. G. North
Ash, of Neutral Bay (B. 21/l/’O9), of any association with
the anti-stoush views, so often andso clamantly voiced in
the daily press of late by the Rev. W. H. Ash, of North
Sydney. I take leave to sympathise with Bev. North
Ash, of Neutral Bay. I, too, possess a namesake with a
passion for publicly exposing his opinions and personality
on all possible occasions. He and I think along different
lines. He is an Imperialist of the fruitiest variety. Me,
Imperialism makes very tired. He shudders at Sosh. It
affrights me not at all. He regards.prize fights as low, and
subversive to the moral character of the Ma State. I attend
them habitually. And so forth. It is one of the minor
agonies of my life that a craving for cheap fame, which is
of the essence of my namesake’s character, impels
him to write about bis predilections over our joint
patronymic in as many newspapers as will stand him. I
never pick up a copy of Sydney Sunday Times (which is
one of his favorite blithering grounds) without a carking
dread of the heart-stab that always assails me on dis-
covering my moniker beneath a turgid mass of Bruce
Smithisms headed, “The Bull-Dog Breed for Aye” or
“ Good Old England—My Respects to You.” His periodi-
cal epistles to the press anent Sosh give me the horrors
in a mild form. He accepts with dog-like trust
the daily paper view of G. Beid’s Menace. For days
after he has weighed in with one of his jeremiads con-
cerning that bogus calamity I am afflicted by acquaint-
ances who intercept me, fumble feverishly in their
pockets, and produce ultimately some newspaper frag-
ments which they slap amazedly, babbling dully the
while, “ Wottinthernameuv/lades?” And then I have to
interrupt and enter on a lame and involved defence.
When the Limerick plague was at its height the co-
proprietor of the name I bear got the disease, and to
my anguish won a prize. On the morning when his
shameful rhyme appeared I ran into a medical friend.
“ My dear old man,” he began concernedly, “ you need a
rest ; a long, long rest among the trees and the flowers
and the birds. Get away from toil, away into the coun-
try—preferably ” (and he looked me fixedly in the eye)
“ to some place where there is no alcohol ” I checked
him and demanded his trouble. Silently he placed his
dexter forefinger on a heavily blue-pencilled portion of
a Sunday paper. I read, and reeled brokenly away.
At various times I have had to rebut charges of enter-
ing for the Sydney Sun’s “Thumbs Up ” tourney ; of
submitting titles in the Star’s Capital Site insanity ; of
winning one of the same paper’s ss. watches ; and of own-
ing a hen wfflich came 97th in the Herald’s egg-laying
contest. If my namesake would only assassinate some-
one, or commit a burglary, or get himself arrested for
champerty and maintenance as a means of attracting the
general eye, I wouldn’t mind a bit—in fact, I would
applaud him. These are fine, spacious deeds. But he
w'on’t. He is too worthy. It is the niggling paltriness of
the crimes he affects that maddens me. I wish to
Heaven that he would stop them.
The Fisher Government, having made a start
wdth a Defence policy, couldn’tnow do better than
keep straight on and supply the means of defence,
both men and money, by imposing a graduated
land-tax. That tax would not only provide the
land for the men Australia wants, but it would
make the right people carry a more decent share
of the cost both of defence and of immigration
than they do at present. From immigration the
workers gain very little directly or immediately—
often, in fact, they lose their jobs ; but the land-
owner stands to gain all the time and every time,
and therefore the landowner should do the steady
paying.
A breathless story in two trips :
The Down Journey.
They got in the car together. They sat down beside
one another. Neither of them spoke. The Conductor
came round. “Two,” said the Man. The Conductor
passed on. “One,” said the Maid. “ I’ve paid for you,”
said the Man. “ I shall pay for myself,” replied' the
Maid. They got off the car together. Neither of them
spoke.
The Return Trip.
They got in together. The Conductor came round.
“ One,” said the Man. “ Aren’t you going to pay for
me?” whispered the Maid. “Two,” said the Man. The
Conductor smiled. The Maid blushed. The Man looked
triumphant. The Maid had given in.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Dairymaids.”
Theatre Royal “ The Scarlet Pimpernel."
Criterion “Jim the Penman.”
Palace “ The Old Folks at Home.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
King’s “My Partner.”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
For only two nights more will Florence
Young, as “that damned little hussy, Sans-
Gene,” have to painfully add up the items on
Napoleon’s laundry bill; after that—on Saturday
night, to be precise—“ The Dairymaids” will be
resurrected at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and the
co. will be able to give itself up to joy and frivolity
undiluted with tragedy.
* * -Jf *
“The Scarlet Pimpernel ” has been trium-
phantly defying some of the acutest intellects in
France at Sydney Royal for the past fortnight,
and public interest in his successes remains un-
abated. He proposes to continue stultifying the
foreigner, and driving him down a hole to where
the stage props recline in their overcoats of dust,
till further notice.
** * *
“ The Squatter’s Daughter ” company has
been forced, after all, to abandon temporarily its
laudable scheme of presenting Shakspeare to the
Sydney multitude. It is promised, however, that
the time will yet come ; and when it does come,
Bilanderson predicts that his famous dramatic
organisation will disclose the presence of three of
the soundest Bard-students Australia has yet en-
countered. Meanwhile, the Criterion will be
occupied by the Meynell and Gunn firm, which
proposes to oblige at the customary rates with
“ Jim the Penman.”
At Sydney Criterion, next Saturday,
Meynell and Gunn’s Dramatic Co., headed by
Miss Madge Mclntosh and Harcourt Beatty,
stage “ Jim the Penman,” a play that hasn’t
been seen in Sydney these 20 years.' This season
represents Miss Madge Mclntosh’s farewell to
Australia. She will be presented during the
season in “Fedora,” “She Stoops to Conquer,”
and “Camille.”
** * *
The Old F oiks are still At Home at Syd-
ney Palace, and Lord Kenilworth will have been
strangled and stabbed for the tenth time before
this notice meets the searching eye of the play-
goer. Shortly after the playgoer reads it, the
unhappy nobleman will again fall beneath the
assassin’s knife with a look of pained but bogus
astonishment, and the eleventh-night rejoicings
over the retributed villain will proceed apace long
ere the undertaker has arrived to claim his own.
The “At Home ” shows no signs of flagging; in
fact, the Old Folks look like keeping going for
quite a long while yet.
* * *•
Cinquevalli continues to dispense amaze-
ment at Sydney Tivoli. The trick wherein he
balances one billiard ball on top of a cue, and
another billiard ball on top of that, and then
places the cue on top of a third billiard ball held
in a wineglass, and elevates the lot by holding the
wineglass in his mouth, seems to hit the audience
hardest. The billiard ball as a base to balance
anything on looks a most unlikely article ; but
when it is an intermediate fragment in a tower of
beautifully-poised trifles the house comes down
with a noise that shakes everything but the alert
juggler and his marvellous trick. Jay W.
Winton, the ventriloquist, who has been arguing
with McGinty for several years, is the second
string of the entertainment; Geoffrey and Ben-
son, Mackinnon’s Scottish Meisters, Lawson and
Namon, and some others render assistance.
* * *
“Jack and Jill,” at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne) celebrated its 73rd performance last
Saturday with an outbreak of new features, one
of which is an Australian patriotic song supported
by scenic effects. Also Miss Alma Barber sings
“ Take Me Round in a Taxi-cab,” and duets with
Bert Gilbert. Meanwhile that admirable old
feature, the ballet, goes on its way rejoicing.
Lots of other things go on likewise, but the ballet
deserves special mention for seeming to go on
better every week.
** * *
At the Royal the somewhat different panto,
of “Cinderella” is just now putting in its 10th
round, and promises to see several more through
before the referee steps out of the ticket office,
and declares Time the winner.
** * *
The sin of Josiah Scraggs continues to
find him out at the King’s. Probably the amphi-
theatre would prefer a violent Andersonian
shocker to “ My Partner” ; nevertheless, Baker’s
revised edition of the 30-year-old drama from
America is accepted with the respect due to its
age and character. If Joe Saunders and the Cali-
fornian citizens in general were to cultivate a
more hard-working appearance, and talk less un-
like the people they profess to be, the result would
be more respectable. The fact that the scene
is laid at Razorback is no reason why Joe and
partner Ned and Major Bert Bailey, of the U.S.
Legislature, should shave themselves twice a day.
The faces they put upon the story are bald and
unconvincing. Nor is there any justification for
Joe’s large and low-cut collar. A miner may have
a tender, trusting heart without disguising himself
as a Sunday-school teacher at his first picnic. The
whole performance wants more bone and sinew,
and blood and hair. Joe Baker is strong, in a
measure, in the first half of the play, and Josiah
Scraggs Duggan meets the requirements of his
human black-beetle part; but the acting, as a
rule, has no truth in it, and some of the comic
relief comes very rough on Maggie Knight, who
is a clever actress in a stupid and utterly unsuit-
able character. “ For the Term of His Natural
Life ” will be revived when “My Partner’’has
had his day.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
The Beauty Wisdom of the Age.
A Book Written by a Viennese Expert Tells
Most Convincingly the Story of How
Facial Beauty is Within the Grasp
of All.
By Special Arrangement the Readers of
“The Bulletin” Can Obtain the Book
Free of Charge.
By the Lady W T.
A book has lately come to my notice which deserves
that the greatest possible publicity be given to it. It
should be placed in the hands of every Englishwoman,
because it teaches a new commonsense philosophy for
everyday life, that philosophy that to command success
you must look it.
Married women know sometimes, but husbands know
always, that the successful wife is one who can turn to
her husband a face stamped with a radiant complexion,
accentuated with a pair of lustrous eyes and garlanded
with an abundance of beautiful hair.
The man who, day after day, has to face across the
breakfast table a wife, clever, well-read, possessing
numerous accomplishments, but whose complexion is
dreary and colorless —whose skin is coarse and unpleasing
—this man will grin and bear it—sometimes.
Even undoubted goodness of heart and brilliancy will
pall on him, unless they are backed up by a charming
physique. There is this resemblance between the clever
man and the merely clever woman, that they both get on
one’s nerves.
To me, who has made it my life’s business to spur to
greatest effort every woman who wishes to make the best
of her chances in' life, this new gospel of capturing
success by looking it appeals with a force of undeniable
logic.
Pit the woman whose happy possession is the divinest
gift of all, beauty of face, against the learned woman, the
industrious woman, the clever woman, who is plain and
unlovely, and whose will the battle be?
To command success, look it!
There is a fascination about this crisp sentence which
fills one with a more hopeful view of life than any philo-
sophy yet put before progressing womankind.
And so this book, “ Beauty in the Making,” has come
to be written, and every page of it is a stepping-stone lead-
ing to success in life through personal attractiveness and
beauty. The authoress is Mademoiselle HelenajRubin-
stein, the widely-known Viennese lady, whose coming to
London has been so warmly welcomed by those to whom
her name and fame have long been known.
“ Beauty in the Making” has been written with a view
of making the care of the complexion and the achieve-
ment of its beauty a pleasant, easy task, an intelligent,
practical occupation, in the privacy of your own home.
This book is intended to tell you precisely what one
wishes to know and should know about the fostering of
facial beauty. Every point has been taken up in it by the
authoress that has any bearing on this interesting and
important topic, and suggestions and object lessons have
been embodied in it that will not only save the reader
time and money, but, above all, the complexion.
It familiarises the Englishwoman with the Viennese
School of Beauty Cultivation, which is as different from
English and Australian practices as scientific methods
must of necessity differ from the unscientific and slipshod.
The treatise is fully indexed and contains, amongst
other things, discussions under the following titles : —
The Skin : Normal and Abnormal—The Skin’s Lustre-
Freckles, Tan, and Sunburn —To Wash or not to Wash
the Face—Soap : Its use and abuse—Blackheads—Cos-
metics and their use—Wrinkles —Face Massage—The Care
of the Hair—Superfluous Hairs—Bed Noses and Flushed
Faces—Flesh Reducing, etc.
Moreover, this book furnishes details of forty-odd com-
plexion preparations which are intended for home treat-
ment, and serve for every imaginable requirement of the
complexion. The credit for the production of these
preparations is due to the greatest scientific minds of
Continental Europe.
Works written with as much thought and knowledge
as have been spent in the compilation of Mile. Rubin-
stein’s “ Beauty in the Making” are usually and justifi-
ably obtainable only at much expense, but this work will,
owing to a special arrangement, be sent free on applica-
tion to anyone sufficiently interested in the subject of
scientific Beauty Cultivation to write for it to Mile.
Helena Rubinstein, 158 Pitt-street, Sydney, or 274 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne, enclosing threepence for postage,
and mentioning this paper. Every reader should, there-
fore, send for it by the first post available.
Melba, the one and only, is about to tour
Australia as she never toured it before. .The
Bulletin feels rather tempted to offer an apology
for the announcement of a fact which has been
striking this continent for some weeks, and
was freely talked of before the returned
to Europe only a year ago. Also The Bul-
letin hesitates to remark again that this
country’s most gifted daughter is the Queen
of Song. Everybody who is likely to want
to hear Melba sing has already heard more about
her future movements than will be stated here-
with. The Monarch in question will give the
first concert of her tour at Melbourne Town Hall
on Tuesday, March 9, and a second concert on the
following Saturday. An Irish baritone, Frederick
Ranalow, will assist her vocally, and a Marshall
Hall orchestra will support her instrumentally.
The box plans open at Allan’s on Monday next at
the reasonable hour of 9 a.m., but coupons en-
titling the holder to book seats (up to 12 in
number) will be issued before the plan is opened.
John Lemmone is director of the campaign.
* p *
There are indications that the time-honored
serio-chronic lady of the vaudeville stage the
pert, illogical charmer who talks masculine or
maudlin ditties in extravagant feminine trappings,
and follows up her hoarse vociferations with an
active but unintelligent dance —there are indica-
tions that her cheap and gaudy form of entertain-
ment is on its last legs. The serio-chronic is like
unto Napoleon’s alleged Old Guard. She will never
surrender, but she must die. Even the gallery
at Rickards’ is going to do without her. In
her place one gets nowadays the girl with a
sweet, well-educated warble, a sense of humor
and a personality ; and whereas the old orthodox
serio-chronics have ever been of two sorts only—
the plump and the lean sorts —the new comedy
girls promise to be variety artists in the right
sense of the term. Miss Jen Latona, lately of
Melbourne Opera House, is a singer who can turn
a sentimental ballad to the best account, or
deliver a musical moral discourse in doggerel
rhyme with vim and full expression. When she
chants “ I Would if I Could ” it is not necessary
to turn one’s brain off at the meter and sit in
mental darkness lest one’s reflections be painful
beyond endurance. The ditty is poor, but
the rendering is spirited and artistic.
A more distinctly pronounced improve-
ment on the antique serio-chronic, because
she takes the stage in the old way with refresh-
ingly new results, is Miss Cissie Curlette, who
came to light last week. Cissie looks as though
she had escaped from a comic opera under engage-
ment to Rickards. Her methods are “ ladylike,”
and her sense of the eternal fitness of things is
expressed in her various frocks, and her risky
songs, and her clever vocalisation. The melodious
voice is of a useful quality, and she just stands
and sings incisively—much the same as Maggie
Moore would have done it when the present time
was the remote future. Cissie is soothingly rather
than saucily suggestive in her songs, and in her
presence stern respectability may smile without
compunction. At the same time as Cissie there
arrived Stross and Fellows, who are musical instru-
mentalists of some note. Otherwise the bill is as
before, but Rickaby and the Latonas are about to
depart, and in their stead a more or less Chinese
conjuror and illusionist reputed to be wondrous
will dominate the situation. His name for busi-
ness purposes is Lung Yung Chang, or something
similar, and his posters are regardless of expense.
** * *
Included in the latest reinforcements at
Melbourne Olympia (which is West’s Pictures) is
the story of The Count of Monte Christo,” in
some half-dozen feverish tableaux. The in-
cidents are portrayed according to the merciless
French school of rapid histrionics ; but the chief
scenes, especially the exterior of the Chateau
d’lf, look very far from impossible. Included also
in Saturday’s programme was a picture of Messina
in its ruins—awesome, like Chaos. The interest-
ing Cinophone is also recurring. On Saturday the
instrument insisted on murmuring “Oh, My
Antonio,” in frankly masculine undertones, what
time a betighted lady, with legs like match-
shadows, mouthed in accompaniment on the
screen. And the audience insisted on an encore.
“ Antonio” is getting to be an institution at the
Olympia, and the very dogs of the district bark
its joyful chorus.
** # #
Tail’s Pictures at the Glaciarium (Mel-
bourne), on Saturday last, involved some refer-
ences to the Messina ’quake, and to another of
Nature’s skin troubles near Pompeii, about 79
A.D. Incidental to the latter is the sobsome
story of the blind girl Nydia, whose arch-angelic
symptoms invariably cause some sentimental
hysteria and furtive searches for one’s bandana.
* -& # *
At the Bijou, an audacious management is
still presenting the alleged musical comedy, “The
Girl Without a Character,” which work of unstated
origin is not distinguishabiy different from an old
farcical comedy, known as “The Arabian Nights,”
which Harry St. Maur introduced to Melbourne
long ago. Also the two Salomes continue to trifle
with the Baptist’s head at the Athenaeum Hall
and Waxworks respectively.
** * *
“ Paul Kauvar,” by Steele Mackay, making
its first Australian appearance at Adelaide Royal,
is another of the romantic, happy-ending costume
dramas, popular since “Sweet Nell” set the
fashion. The shadow of the guillotine is all over it.
An old marquis has ensured his safety during the
Terror by acting as secretary to Paul, a young
leader of the Revolution ; that he still cannot
open his mouth without denouncing the revolu-
tionaries is a detail. So is the decision of his
daughter Diane, who has secretly married Paul,
to go with her father when at last he has to fly.
Her “place is by his side” if he is going
into danger; and nobody has the sense to point
out that she would be a great nuisance to a
fugitive. The scene where she has to choose
between the two men is a fine piece of work. So
is much of the dungeon scene, where Paul does
the Sydney Carton act for his father-in-law’s sake.
(Much later it comes out that he crawled from
under at the last moment, and let a priest be
guillotined in his place; and even a resolutely
friendly audience has hard work to cheer over
that.) The third and fourth acts introduce an
astonishing country house, with a big door open-
ing right on to a battlefield ; but when the vic-
torious soldiers of the Republic rush in, they
prove to be mostly the Paris mob, with a num-
ber of girls among them in walking-dress.
This wants attending to; the army that was
busy breeding Napoleon and his marshals did not
fight that way. There is a good deal of the sign-
ing of blank death-warrants and the disguising of
people by the mere swapping of overcoats ; but
these things are seemingly inevitable in this kind
of piece. Still, it is a rattling drama all the same,
as far above “A Beggar on Horseback” (for ex-
ample) as it is below “Sweet Nell.” Hareourt
Beatty, shedding all affectations, is a dashing,
pig-headed hero, who would apparently rather be
killed than not at any moment. Gaston Mervale,
for a nice change, is a virtuous character.
He never succeeds in looking old enough
to be the father of Miss Mclntosh, though.
James Lindsay is the only other person that
matters, the forger of. death-warrants and traitor
to both sides. All four of them play with admir-
able restraint, never once “acting to the gallery.
They get a little less applause than they might,
but they go further towards making the action
seem convincing. Tom Cannam has charge of the
comic relief. The scene where he comes as a
priest, to announce to his nagging wife his own
decease, is reminiscent of many things, but it is
genuine humor. The published cast is curiously
small, but there are more miscellaneous “cries
without” than in anything else since Shakspeare.
■K * * *
Miss Madge Mclntosh, having escaped
the guillotine in “ Paul Kauvar,” described above,
is nightly dying at Adelaide Royal, per other ends
equally fatal, but less abrupt and messy, m
“Camille” and “Fedora.” At the variety house
Amelia and Leonora have left for their native
Europe. Cristofolo, too, has gone. He is under-
stood to be their brother, and is probably the only
variety performer on record, not billed as an
Infant Wonder, to have his own mother for a
stage attendant. The St. Leon acrobats are the
star turn of the moment. Rickards believes in
quick changes, and business is booming.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Last week Miss Mabel Morgan, who used to be one of
J.O.W.’s panto, princes, or dukes, was presented with a
bright, brand-new decree nisi by an obscure husband, on
the grounds of desertion. Miss Mabel, who privately
trails the name of Ada Rebecca Mabel Gardener Taylor,
married an engine fireman as far back as 1901, but, appar-
ently preferring the stage to the stoker, had gone on the
boards, and remained there flagrantly ever since. The
poor man instanced his solicitations and his shocked
feelings at the sight of his wife in tights, and, indeed,
supplied the papers with much nourishment for lean
cynics. At any rate, he earned his decree nisi, for his
wife is said to be continuing the desertion in London on
an indefinite engagement.
“ D.”: It was while watching the late Charles Warner
act, about 15 years ago, that the suspicion first came to
me that melodrama was not Art. I have never been able
to get it out of my head since. Warner was playing the
hero’s part in a gory production named “The Cotton
King,” at the London Adelphi. The feature of the show
was the insane activity of the villain, who in various
scenes put stolen money in the hero’s safe, inoculated the
heroine with a deadly disease, threw her down a lift well
and rang the lift on top of her, had the hero chained and
incarcerated in a lunatic asylum, and perpetrated a dozen
more infamies of the sort. A fine company interpreted
the appalling drama ; besides Warner there were Marion
Terry, who played the heroine’s part, and Herbert Flem-
ming,' who, I think, was for the occasion a Jew.
“ 0.K.”: To my remarks upon Charles Warner in last
Bulletin let me add some corrections of the par. immedi-
ately preceding it. Warner couldn’t have been, as
stated, “ next at Drury Lane for three years with Samuel
Phelps, and afterwards at Sadler’s Wells ” after appearing
at the Lyceum in 1871-72. Poor old Phelps never played
more than an occasional engagement at Drury Lane, nor
did he appear there at all after 1871 in any notable pro-
duction. The big theatre, under Chatterton’s manage-
ment, was rarely occupied for more than a month or two
together, save at Christmas, when the panto,
had a long innings. As to whether Warner ap-
peared “afterwards at Sadler’s Wells,” X can only
say that he didn’t appear there with Phelps, for
the old man gave up the house in 1868. The most
“fashionable” of Warner’s engagements prior to his
lucky hits in “Never Too Late to Mend” (1878) and
“Drink” (1879), and subsequent to his rather long
engagement at the Vaudeville, was in ‘ ‘ Les Danieheffs,”
at St? James’s Theatre. An expensive cast included John
Clayton, Hermann Vezin, Mrs. John Wood, and Carlotta
Addison, so the rising actor was in good company. But
here, as in many other of his parts, Warner was too eager
to distinguish himself. He tried to force great effects in
scenes that were only moderately strong. He needed fine
convincing scenes in which to spread his mannerisms.
Sebphe, the balloonist, when he landed with his para-
chute in Melbourne Zoo the other day, had some difficulty
in steering clear of the large, roofless cage in which the
tigers bask. A former balloonist fell into the cemetery
and broke a leg. Sebphe just missed falling into a
cemetery and breaking a fast.
Charles Tait, of the brethren who manage stars, writes
of things theatrical at Florence : When you buy a ticket
for a show in Italy they have a way of charging twice.
The first ticket provides “ingresse.” You pay about Is.
to get past the main door. Then you must get a further
ticket for your seat—say Is. for a stall. Prices are very
low even for the best shows ; 3s. in all gets you a first-
class stall at the opera in Rome or Florence. But when
you buy a stall for the opera in Florence you get a good,
hard seat, and you then, if you are wise, fork out another
3d. for a “ chine ” (cushion). This gives you the advan-
tage of looking over the man in front and shutting out
the stage-view of the man behind. The usher dilates on
the advantages you derive from a “ chine,” or, rather,
the disadvantage of not having one—and you pay the 3d.
Italian crowds are mostly orderly and well behaved. Yet
there is one great objection to them. They expectorate
everywhere. All do it ; and if they should happen to
miss the floor—well, they apologise to you very prettily.
Cinematographs are the chief amusement of the Italian
masses to-day. For four soldi (2d.) you can see three ot
the latest and best films ; for two soldi, films that are a
few months old ; for one soldi you get worn-out stutt.
A ha’p’orth of cinematograph is not much of an enter-
tainment, though the subjects are very French, or
boy at the door says (when he sights ‘ Inglese or
“Americano”)—'“ Veri ’ot, guarantee, signor. Even in
the best shows the subjects have to be regarded through
blue spectacles.
When Blanche Arral came to Australia her Yankee
husband harped on the allegation that she had been
known in Europe as “the Little Patti.” In San Francisco,
a while ago, she was paragraphed as “the second
Tetrazzini ” ; and thanks to her solid merits and artistic
booming, the versatile songstress made a considerable
success. Otherwise she was unlucky, for her husband
stopped a bullet and she herself got rather severely burnt.
Brown nymph Annette Kellermann is making better
than good in Roosevelt’s country. She has dropped long-
distance swimming, and taken to the music-hall stage in
a sketch entitled “On the Beach at Boulogne. In this
little bit of business she combines, she says, dancing,
diabolo, diving, and flirting.” Whatever it is, it appeals
to be dreadfully successful, for the gentleman for whom
she works the show has a special car for her, and has en-
gaged three engineers and 14 men to put up the diving
tank at each place she visits. Generally, managers em-
ploy two engineers and 13 men for this class of work, so
that the engagement of three engineers and 14 men can
be taken as a very special recognition of Annette s status.
“Grey Lynn”: “M.L.” asks (B. 28/l/’09): “Is it
correct that the late ‘Widow O’Brien’ Sheridan was a
Dublin Jew?” The answer is “No”! John F. was born in
Providence, Rhode Island, of Irish-American parents, and
was christened John Francis Sheridan. He never men-
tioned the name of “ Carlin ” at any time. Moreover,
Sheridan did not “ gag” about Strabane in “Fun on the
Bristol ” any of the 1000 and odd times I played in it with
him.
“ Housebill ” : “ 0.K.” is wrong re “My Partner” at
Opera House, Melbourne (B. 11/2/’O9). The late Robert
Brough did not play “ the light, low-comedy young
man.” It was Dion Boucicault (at that time jun.), with
sister Nina as Grace Brandon.
It has begun ! The Mayor of N’York has revoked the
license of all the moving-picture shows in the city, num-
bering 550, on the ground that they were “ demoralising
boys and girls.” All vacant shops were being turned into
cheap shows, with a performance every hour all day and
most of the night. The Mayor said the city was mov-
ing-picture mad” —that many children were stealing
money to pay for admission, and he was going to shut
down on the lot, and chance the consequences.
“ 0.K.” • Somehow the absurdity of orthodox angel
impersonations by she-mummers strikes me more for-
cibly at the biograph show than in a theatre. This may
be because one is rarely asked to take an angel seriously
at a theatre, save in a tableau, where the chaste vision is
so placed that her wings are not fully exposed to ridi-
cule, whereas on the bio. film the angels are represented
as active philanthropists. At West’s, the other night, I
saw one of the heavenly ministers ot grace glide into the
bedroom of a blind girlie and touch her eyelids as she
slumbered, for the purpose of restoring her sight. It was
a sufficiently pleasing bit of melodrama—except for the
wings. They professed to grow out of her shoulder-
blades, and there was no sense in them. The lady might
as well have been a panto, fairy, with a pair of gauze
flappers. She couldn’t possibly fly with wjings like that,
or fold them close to her angel form. I think the proper
method of planting angels’ wings ought to be taught at
the Agricultural Colleges.
An English critic has been digging at Handel, who is
said to have stated that when composing the Hallelujah
Chorus he saw the Heavens opened and (etcetera). Yet
it appears that much of the “ Messiah” music was ongi-
nallv written for a comic opera ! The frugal composer
used it up for his oratorio : “If the plain man were to
notice that Handel has set ‘ and He shall purify the sons
of Levi’ to a rather queer melodic phrase, he might follow
the matter up and discover that the melody is taken from
an Italian duet, in which the word ‘ primavera ’ (spring)
has the merry little run that sounds so insane in the ora-
torio on the ‘fy’ of ‘ purify.’ If he were to inquire why
‘For unto us a child is born’ is set to another queer
phrase, he would learn that this comes from another
Italian duet, and that the otherwise inexplicable pause
between ‘ unto us ’ and ‘ a son is given ’ is a reproduction
of a coquettish pause in the original. Pursuing his
studies, he would learn that the laughable gyrations of
the soprani on ‘ easy ’ in ‘ His yoke is easy, His burthen
is light ’ come from the sportive twists of melody given
to the word ‘ ride ’ (laughs) in the original. And he would
feel justified in admitting what he has no doubt dimly
felt, but what he was afraid to say—that the chorus 1 All
we like sheep ’ seems to express delight in sin rather than
regret for it, when he learns that the original Italian
duet is a denunciation of ‘ blind love and cruel beauty.’ ”
A “ coquettish pause ” in the “ Messiah ” —delightful
idea!
The principal “ boy ” of the panto, at the Kennington
(London) Theatre has introduced the Cockneys to a new
Yankee advertising dodge. A prize of £5 and a season
ticket is offered to the person who first finds out how
Lulu Yalli, the panto. “ boy ” in question, gets to the
theatre. Crowds of people hang about the entrances
with the idea of “ spotting ” the disguised female. She
comes as a man in a motor-car, an old woman in spec-
tacles, or a lad with a telegram, or what not; and the
waiting crowds ultimately go home and talk of how they
didn’t discover Lulu. London is a very wet and slushy
city at Christmas time, and it is calculated that during
the first fortnight of the panto. 211 people caught cold in
the vain attempt to earn £5.
“Kodak”: The bellowdrama audience loves to see
people rebuked and flattened with a heavy slab of senti-
ment. It will cheer a moral remark regardless of whether
it emanates from the hero or the villain, or whether it’s
common sense or just plain hog-food. Last week I
attended a bellow, one scene of which was set in a pri-
vate madhouse. The villain had there immured his sane
wife under the care of a human fiend, who was
trying to torture her into insanity. The villain—
who was of a time-saving disposition—suggested
that the lady should be done away with quickly.
With a look of honest indignation, the madhouse
keeper recoiled from the tempter, “No!” he cried, “I
may not be a good man, but I’ll do no murder ! ” The
speech was received with frenzied cheers. Later on, the
aged and aristocratic father of the heroine was humiliated
by the dramatist in order to raise a cheer for his daughter.
The escaped mistress of the villain was carried in, badly
injured through a motor accident. When it was proposed
to bring her into the home, the ancient stepped forward
with a protesting paw held aloft, “But, my dear,” he
doddered, “she may be some desperate character!"
The heroine, vibrating with indignation, returned scorn-
fully in her deepest chest notes, “Father! She is a
Woman, like myself!” Whereupon the wretched old
man bowed his head ’neath the storm of cheers, and
allowed the mangled form to be borne over his threshold.
“S.S.”: A popular actor of surprising alleged loveli-
ness paid a visit to a metropolitan family one Sunday
evening recently. He arrived carrying a magnificent
portfolio containing 375 portraits of himself. He spread
these beautiful pictures all over the drawing-room, and
discussed their various points and perfections for three
solid hours. Then he permitted his hostess to select one
for herself. When she had done so, he said, with charm-
ing ingenuousness, “You have shown excellent taste, my
dear lady. That is the picture which Mr. Bernard Shaw
declared to be the most exquisite representation of Romeo
he had ever seen.”
“ Snell ” : No man, woman, or animal gets a reputation
for kindliness of heart, charity and kindred virtues so
cheaply as your popular actress. The dear lady has only
to send her picture to a widow, or speak a kind word to
a Deaf and Dumb Asylum, and a score of press writers
have spasms of emotion about it, and relieve themselves
with rhapsodies. A par just circulated lavishes nine lines
of appreciative superlatives on a charming pantomime
bov for an astonishing burst of humanity that consisted
in sending her picture post-card to a consumptive boy.
Sweet are the uses of adversity. If there were no poor
and sick, a lot of happy people would find it much more
difficult to keep themselves well advertised.
“Harrison O.” : Soine interesting figures have been
published recentlyij’especting the profits of the Drannner.
Seymour Hicks has'(Calculated that the average West End
(London) theatre wharcw is worth £2BO to the box office.
A “ success ” is performed eight times a week, which
means that the weekly takings amount to £2240. From
this deduct £l2OO for expenses, Ayhich leaves a profit of
£lO4O a week. Hicks asserts that the initial cost of pro-
duction can generally be cleared in a few weeks. Regard-
ing' the profits made by the writers of plays, it is alleged
that Barrie has already manufactured something like
£lOO,OOO by dramatic authorship; and considering the
tremendous successes achieved by “ The Admii'able
Crichton " and “ Peter Pan,” the estimate does not look
excessive. Gilbert, it is said, cleared £50,000 on “ Pyg-
malion and Galatea,” and Pinero £40,000 on “Sweet
Lavender.” Terry, the producer of the last-mentioned
piece, did even better; his profits exceeded £60,000. Pinero
has also found play-writing a payable game. Some time ago
it was printed that he had made considerably over £40,000
with “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.” “ The Gay Lord
Quex ” Was also something extra in the way of a London
success, while “ His House in Order” has been probably
as good a pelf-producer as the “ Tanqueray ” masterpiece.
The estimate made by Wilson Barrett of the gross takings
of “The Silver King” is a modest £6,000,000. It has
been reckoned that £1,000,000 has been paid by persons
witnessing “Rip Van Winkle,” and £500,000 by those
who have grinned over the antics of the Lady from Brazil
—where the nuts come from. That a third-rate musical
comedy may prove a gold-mine to its perpetrators is
shown by the fact that a year back it was estimated that
up to then the composer of the very ordinary
“Merry Widow” had received £60,000 and the librettists
£40,000. Herzmansky, the Viennese music publisher,
has, by the way, made a profit of £70,000 out of
the musical score of the Glad Relict. Charles
Warner, when in Australia in ISBB-9, made £35,000
in the two years. During one week he made £637
with “Hands Across the Sea.” It would be interesting
to know how much that remarkable bushodrammer,
“ The Squatter’s Daughter,” has been worth to the guilty
parties. So far as the drama is concerned, the wages of
sin are really handsome, and it would seem that there is
every opportunity for the Australian dramatist to make
a fortune—especially if he happens to be a Damn Bad
dramatist.
“Melb.”: Our Athenaeum, as a supposed high-class
literary institute, corresponds to the Sydney School of
Arts. In front of the Athenaeum there is an enormous
placard, “ Salome Dance Every Night. Front Seats Four
Shillings.” The rare price is because there is a suspicion
of indecency. Of course there is none, because King
Edward saw the dance. It is comparable to little books
known as “ Roosters,” which used to be sent out from
Holywell-street. They had a suggestion of indelicacy on
the cover. Men sold them furtively through back streets
for a shilling or whatever could be got. Old gents eagerly
bought, hurried away gleefully to read, and were
disgusted. So with the Athenaeum and its sup-
posed salacious Salome. There will be a rush of
baldies for the four-bobs, the only part where you are
guaranteed to see the Altogezzaire. There will be a pave-
ment of craniums. The three and two bobbers will, of
course, only be in the sixth and fifth heavens, while the
bobsters may as well peep under a circus tent and
see the ’orses’ ’oofs. All this is very melancholy in
a literary institute. In sooth, the Melbourne
Athenaeum is a wretched, antiquated, frowsy Sleepy
Hollow, from the standpoint of Literature. About
a couple of years ago the committee reported that
it was dying of inanition. Everyone was getting old, and
no young blood was coming in. Then the biographo-
mania came along. For two years hardly a night has
passed without the hall being hired for a biograph, with
matinees even oftener than twice a week. This keeps the
literary concern alive. Ignoble, but so ! Now, Salome !
If the biograph slumps there will be a gaff. The library
is a ridiculous old slop, with the veritable old clo’ of
books. Most of them clap out dust if you open them.
The establishment has been sinking ever since the brief
and dashing regime of Garnet Walch as secretary. It
needs shaking up and revolutionising. It and Bevan’s
church are the standing jokes of Collins-street.
SEPULCHRAL SONGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let; us sins' a sons of tombs and dim, funereal glooms,
Of the grisly end of Life’s material ferments ;
Of sepultures and bones, and grim memorial stones ;
Of death, decay, and graveyards and interments.
What’s the good of piping gay when we’ll shortly crawl
away
To our dismal graves to be disintegrated ?
What’s the use of carols glad, when we’ll very soon be had
By the worms, and in corruption masticated?
Therefore, brothers, let us talk of midnight ghouls that
stalk
In burial grounds when passing-bells are tolling ;
Of slain men lying' stark ; of murders in the dark ;
Of drowned men in the tangled wreckage rolling.
O, let us chant a dirge of corpses in the surge ;
Of noisome vaults and skeletons forgotten ;
Of skulls that leer like Sin, with a set and evil grin,
Outlasting all things ruinous and rotten !
Yea, a doleful hymnal stave to the headstone and the
grave,
To the cypress and the cerements and the mourners ;
Yea, a threnody of verse to the slow and sombre hearse,
To the pall and bier, and bearers at the corners.
Ah, the dreary coffin-lid, under which the body’s hid !
Ah, the ghastly, ghostly, grisly things, and ghoulish !
Ah, the horrors in the nights, and the spectres and the
sprites—
When we’ve these a song of joy is simply foolish.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


A FURNISHING OPPORTUNITY.
Save £2O when Furnishing.
This offer lasts till Saturday only. Buyers may save £2O by furnishing their
cottage now, at Sale Prices. Our offer of complete cottage Is as follows :
T^T^T™Tn COn k a ' n ' Dak Stand, Mats and Floor Coverings.
DINING ROOM, containing Oak Suite, Curtains, Axminster Carpet, with Linoleum
Surrounds, and Blinds and Curtains.
DRAWING ROOM, containing one Bordered Felt Square, Linoleum Surround,
Curtains, Rosewood Suite, Blinds, etc.
B.jST BEDROOM, containing Axminster Square, Stained Rosewood Suite, Hand-
t in B Bed stead, Bedding, Curtains. Rods and Fittings complete.
SPARE BEDROOM, containing Mattings, 3ft. Bedstead, Bedding, Stained Rose-
wood Suite, Curtains, etc.
containing Linoleum, Rug, complete Suite, 2ft Gin Bedstead, Bedding.
E-IIErLEJN, containing Linoleum, Table, Dresser with glass doors, two Chairs.
IJsual Price, complete, £170; SALE PRICE, COMPLETE, £l5O
On our third floor this completely furnished house is on view.
All other Furniture reduced.
REMEMBER Only Letters posted up to and including' Saturday will be executed at Sale Prices.
DAVID JONES Ltd., Sydney.
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers Jewellers Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
UBT Noted for Wedding and Engagement Rings of excellent quality and value.
18ct. Gold, Diamond
and Sapphire Ring',
£3.
15ct. Gold, Diamond,
and Ruby Ring,
HiK
18ct. Gold, Three
Diamond Rinjr,
£3 10s. and £5 ss.
18ct. Gold, all Diamond,
Hoop Ring-, £5 Es. ;
also £7 10s. and £'.o.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Ruby, or Diamond and
Sapphire Ring, £3 10s.,
£5 and £7 10s.
18ct. Gold, Diamond
and Sapphire Ring-,
£2 10s.
FINEST QUALITY AND
WORKMANSHIP.
"IHIKIBCTI •,
Solid lSct. Gold Wedding
Ring, 20s. ; heavier ones
at 30s. and 40s.
Any special Ring made to
your order at shortest
notice and moderate
charge. Carriage paid on
all orders.
Ring Card and Catalogue
posted you free on request.
Established over CO years.
SOCIETY
Justice begins to shriek in Melbourne for
the extirpation of Dogberry injustice; but the
Law Department hangs to the belief that the re-
tired publican, the one-time butcher and the
whilom estate agent are good enough to perpetuate
the howling burlesques of suburban law-dis-
pensaries. The other day at Prahran a “ respect-
able citizen” who laid out a “friend ” with a beer
bottle, necessitating hospital treatment, was fined
10s. ; an ordinary drunk got £5 or 14 days ; and
the father of a truant schoolboy was sent to quod
for a week !
A BASE DECEPTION.
Will this hair-dye deceive anyone ?”
“ Madame , if it didn't deceive anyone I couldn't
sell it."
The writer of a “Ladies’ Letter” in a
Melbourne weekly heaps half a column of deri-
sion on whiskers. She wonders any woman can
abide a man with a face like a broken sofa
cushion. “Although a loyal subject and devoted
to my King,” she cries, “I think King Edward
should take those nasty, germ-harboring whiskers
off his face, and set his subjects a better example.”
Hooray ! God Shave the King !
“ Drillbumper ” has a word or two to say :
“A.M.,”in his summing-up of “the tar of the hour”
(B. 2/11/’O9), makes me writhe. What is he at all ? He
talks about “ the rolling gait,” “ the piercing - eye,” and
“ the deep, rumbling, saltwater voice of the mariner of
50 years ago ” —it sounds like a tame Spring poet. Let
me assure “ A.M.” that this “ rolling gait ” is in the main
assumed. I used to laugh at our lads when they joined
the navy; after a week, and even before their
ship had left her moorings, they would roll
like a steamer in ballast in a gale. That's
the roll that, “ A.M.” admires. Also, the mariner
of to-day hasn’t, it seems, got a reckless eye or two, and
doesn’t spit out jelly-fish when he talks (I suppose that
is what he means by a saltwater voice). Nevertheless,
the present-day sailor (wind-jammer) is every bit as good
a sailor as the mariner of 50 years ago, or 150 years ago
for that matter. Naturally, having spent most of his
life sailing lumps of wood about “A.M.’s” “great
waters,” he is awed by the bustle and roar of a city ;
but in that respect he is only the same as the bushman.
And because “A.M.’s” job allows him to wear a
high collar and fancy vest, he needn’t throw dirt
at Jack’s slop clothes and unshaved face. “A.M.”
forgets that Jack doesn’t always stay ashore; in
fact, he is seldom ashore, and fancy clothes, there-
fore, don’t find favor in his eye (not the piercing
eye, the other one). “ A.M.’s ” ideal sailor is the one who
wears bell-bottom trousers and roars, “ Avast there, ye
lubbers” and “Shiver my timbers,” and rolls all over
the pathway till be becomes a nuisance. However, let
“ A.M.” journey (by train) to Newcastle and sign on one
of the dozen wind-jammers bound to South America with
coal, and then, when he is “ running the eastern down,”
let him ask his mate to see if he has got a piercing eye
and a saltwater voice, and if his tie is on straight and his
teeth clean ; and when the mate has done with him he
will have found that the rolling eye and piercing gait and
fishy breath don’t make a sailor.
« * * »
Vic. .Railway Boss Tait continues to ignore
the present-day tendency to deal with the suburban
traffic of large cities by means of short, easily-
handled and speedy trains, run at brief intervals.
He has now got six huge vehicles —double-bogie
cars of nine compartments each, good for 108 pas-
sengers—running on the Caulfield line, and is
getting others ready for the St. Kilda and Brighton
lines. Apparently the Canadian intends that the
cost of alteration shall make the conversion of the
suburban system to electricity too expensive for
consideration —at least, in his time.
* * * *
Landlord John Tebbufcfc continues an
argument which has wandered away from John
Tebbutt himself (in whom this paper is much in-
terested) and gone to Moses (in whom it isn’t) :
“ H.M.0.” treats contemptuously my statement that
perpetual slavery was closely associated with the Mosaic
land laws. As a “ practising Jew,” and, it is presumed,
one who ought to know more about the matter than a
mere Gentile, he tells us that perpetual slavery is abso-
solutely forbidden by the Mosaic law. The year of
Jubilee, he says, was specially appointed for the uncondi-
tional setting free of all slaves. The accuracy of this
statement I deny. The setting free at the Jubilee re-
ferred only to the Hebrew bondservants, but the Gentile
slaves were to be slaves for ever. (See Leviticus, chapter
xxv., verses 39 to 46.) It seems, therefore, that in this
case it is necessary for a Gentile to set a Jew right as to
the Mosaic slave code.
John Madden, C.J. of Victoria, has the
distinction of differing from Lord Alverstone,
Lord Chief Justice of Fogland, on the sub-
ject of Divorce Court evidence. Lord
Alverstone, commenting on the 70,000-
word telegraphed reports of a Smart Set
divorce case, said he “could not imagine
anything worse for public morality than
the publication of certain divorce reports.”
At the commencement of the Strong-
Wallace suit in Melbourne, John Madden
decided that the deep blue evidence would
give local femininity a wholesome shock ;
so he decreed that the Melbourne and
suburban female was not to be excluded
from the court during the hearing. The
consequence was that the Divorce Court
was tightly packed day after day with
women and girls who were so keen on
getting the wholesome shock that they
wouldn’t have missed any of the filth
for worlds. Many tons of plain, house-
hold washing was left undone while
Madden’s purple entertainment
dragged its length towards the de-
cree nisi , and the rage of the
numerous female who made 19 at-
tempts to get in and failed will
probably endure to the end of
time. The English Chief's esti-
mate of the value of divorce
revelations as a moral correc-
tive will commend itself to the
average man—more especially
the average man who hap-
pened to be passing along
the corridors outside Mad-
den’s court while the
female gloaters were losing
their tempers and back-
hair in the struggle to get
into the legal washhouse.
The most woeful sight about Melbourne
these times is the closed-up pub. The Licenses
Reduction Board shut up 143 pubberies last year
(mostly in Melbourne and suburbs) at a total cost
f ° r m P en . satioia of just under £lOO,OOO. A few
0 . disbarred hostelries are now competing
with Mrs. Boardinghouse and Signor Hasha da
Chop for a precarious crust; but the majority
have simply given up the ghost without a struggle,
In the su L| rbs , th « distance between drinks is
now something heartrending ; and the weak-kneed
to P er has either to stay in the same pub all day
or take a drink of water half-way between pubs,
or else buy a flask wherewith to keep him up from
one pub to another.
BEYOND IT.
PRODGKRS: “ Look here , Badger, I want to give you
a bit of good advice ”
DADGKR : “ Too late , old man , too late ; I’m married!”
A chirpy little seamstress set the tremen-
dous machinery of the Vic. Supreme Court law in
motion last week in a vain effort to recover £5OO
damages for breach of promise. She was only 18,
hut she knew her way about ; and when her lover,
after some months’acquaintance and the receipt
of the parental blessing, proposed that they should
“go and spend the night at a hotel and he would
marry her in the morning,” she cheerfully replied
that she would spend any quantity of nights in
any number of hotels, provided he married her
first. Thereupon the lover, who put in about half
his time in his tailor’s shop and the other half at
church meetings, teachers’ classes, etc., cooled off,
i , i - • j i i» ’
and went a-driving with other goddesses. He ex-
plained the episode to the Court by saying he was
“testing the girl’s morals,” and apparently he
was perfectly disgusted to find that her morals
were up to standard, or a bit above it. Naturally,
the Court reckoned he had breached his promise ;
hut as he didn’t possess any £5OO, it was no good
giving a verdict for that amount. Still, in award-
ding £2O damages with £lO costs, Justice Hood
kept well on the safe side.
*
From the Oldest Inhabitant 1
Another ancient Australian home is in the market—
Clarendon, at Richmond, on the Hawkesbury, made up of
small grants to original settlers, soldiers, exiles, etc., and
purchased by Captain William Cox in the early ’teens of
last century. William Cox arrived in January, 1800, as
paymaster of the N. S. Wales Corps, and in charge of a
number of Irish prisoners; amongst them was Joseph
Holt, the Wicklow General. Cox had bought a farm from
John Maearthur, and had parted with it. Then he
settled at Clarendon. In 1814 his eldest son, also William
Cox (an officer in the 46th Regiment), arrived in Aus-
tralia. The senior William had prepared a home for
him and his family; this was Hobartville. Both fine,
historic properties have passed out of the hands of
the Coxes. The senior Cox died in 1837, the junior in
1850. George Cox inherited Clarendon; he left it to
his son Charles, who sold it to Arthur Dight. Theexecu-
tors of the latter are now selling the property, which is
rented by Captain Philip Charley, of Broken Hill and
Belmont. Hobartville was for years the home of
Andrew Town, noted as a breeder of pedigree stock. Evil
times came upon Town. W. A. Long and George Hill got
the property only to burn their wealthy fingers with it.
Philip Charley is “so disgustingly rich’’that if he be-
comes the purchaser and adds it to his Belmont Park
estate (Archibald Bell’s early-day home), there is not
likely to be another auction sale thereabouts in this
generation.
mi T r* >CV! * 1 . -r. . . x
ihe King s School at Parramatta (N.S. W.)
recently had its 77th anniversary. Many “old
boys” attended the “party,” amongst them
being the stalwart Sylvester Browne, brother of
Chief Justice Darley’s wife, and of ‘ ‘ Rolf Boldre-
wood.” Sylvester Browne was a pupil under
Fairfowl MacArthur before the present quarters
were opened. For years the school languished;
but of late years it has shot ahead again, and now
the authorities have taken possession of old
Government House, intending to use it as an
extra boarding establishment for the scholars.
The old house was last used as a Government
residence by Governor Fitzroy ; but when his wife
was killed at the Park gates, in a carriage acci-
dent, he quitted it, and that piece of bad luck
changed its career.
A PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Give me, O Lord, a crust of bread
From wheat that grew in southern soil,
A fairly large and certain screw,
And just a little healthy toil.
Give me, O Lord, a little beer
When thirst is on the shining land ;
A little jest that is not quite
Too difficult to understand.
Give me, O Lord, a little love,
Just standing five foot two or three,
All round and soft and cuddlesome
To settle down upon my knee.
Give me, O Lord, a little heart,
Lest selfishness should crust me o’er ;
But not too much, O Lord, in case
My goodness should become a bore.
Give me, O Lord, a little sight,
Lest humbug lead my soul astray,
And make me somewhat less a fool
Than I have known myself to-daj'.
Give me, O Lord, a little faith
In what the White Man’s Race can do,
And give me, Lord, a lot of pluck
To serve my country through and through.
MAORILAND.
D.M.W.
THE SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Every year mixed bathing in Port Phillip Bay conies
closer to Melbourne. Last year it was at Carrum ; this
year the sands of Black ltpck were desecrated ; next
year St. Kilda may ia\\—Neck-to-knee fact.
Dearly belovfed, fly the sea, the godless beaches shun !
Off to the dusty inland hills 1 Gird up your loins and run !
Avoid the sinful, undressed beach—the desecrated bay !
Put bays upon your heads, dear friends ! Make haste !
Away ! Away 1
How oft in holy wrath I’ve stood on sun-kissed Manly
beach
And gathered goodly matter there on which, dear friends,
to preach 1
From honest Melbourne oft I’ve gone, and shocked my
tingling nerves
By gazing on the surfinggirls and their entangling curves.
Alas 1 dear friends, I’m much afraid the curse has
reached our shore !
St. Kilda e’en may reel and fall before the season’s o’er ;
And saintly brethren roaming there may chance, alas !
to view
Young men and laughing girls who swim together in the
blue.
Have I not seen it all, dear friends ? A martyr in the
Cause,
Have I not used my eyes Without one single moment's
pause ?
The giant, racing, foam-capped waves—the girls devoid
of stays
That, unsuspicious, plunge and dive—l watched it all for
days ! ”
Be not deceived, beloved friends! Although the scene is
fair,
Although the sport gives rosy health, and lifts the load
of care,
Steer from the foam thy spindle-shanks and rush for
miles inland !
These Nai ds sweet are devil’s lures set for thee on the
sand 1
Leave them to me, beloved friends 1 With my field-
glasses strong,
I’ll crouch unseen upon the cliffs, and watch them all day
long ;
And all the rosy sins that dodge my glaring, moral eye
My drab imagination will with promptitude supply !
victoria.
NUTMEG.


How to get Rich.
Take a quantity of silica costing one*
fourth the price of oil; mix it with oil,
and sell the compound to the public at
the price of pure oil. It is such a com-
pound the public get when they buy
common soaps. In Sunlight Soap the
public buy a pure and well-made soap.
Sunlight Soap reduces expense by pro-
longing the life of the articles washed with
l, which is much more profitable to the
public than common soaps, which soon re-
duce the linen to holes.
Write to-day for our WINTER CATALOGUE, a book of
80 PAGES, beautifully illustrated—it's worth owning.
Our Parcels go all over the Commonwealth*
SWEET BROS. LTD.,
“ WHERE BIZ HUMS,'*
Newtown, Sydney.
We're hard to beat on qualities, harder to beat on styles, and
hardest to beat on prices*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance iiom
George or King Streets).*
A SHIRT BARGAIN!
To clear our splendid stock of Zephyr Shirts
that have been so popular this season, we are
offering the remainder at the reduced price
of 5/6 There is no deterioration in the
patterns, they are as handsome as ever.
They have stiff cuffs,, soft fronts and neck-
bands, and are delightfully soft in wear.
Send to-day for these Shirts—-the number
is limited, and the early birds will un-
doubtedly secure some very big values.
Reduced from 6/6 to 5/6.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
.y? n
; _
The States need laws that shall
make motor-car owners responsible for the mis-
deeds of their hired men. A chauffeur slithered
through Newmarket (Vic.) recently at a rate
which he himself estimated at 25 miles an hour.
When he reached Flernington Bridge, where two
tram-lines meet and there is but lift, of
room on each side, instead of slowing down
he went straight ahead, ran over a young
woman, crashed through a three-rail fence, and
was flung half way down a tannery, where, per-
force, he stopped for a space. The car was removed
per dray and the girl per ambulance, while the
fence remains as he left it. Also he himself is £l5
the poorer, the beaks having decided to fine him—
as they put it—£lo for furious driving and £5 for
injuring the girl. The £5 went to the victim as
“compensation” for the 21 days she spent in hos-
pital. Doubtless it was as much as the chauffeur
could afford. But it wasn’t nearly enough. Had
the accident happened in Germany, the owner of
the car would have been held financially responsible
for his driver’s capers, and would have been.liable
for medical expenses and whatever other com-
pensation the Law might consider proper.
S. M. Herald thus reported an Indian
who told Sydney Insolvency Court last week that
he was bankrupt and couldn’t pay his creditors :
He was a native of Lahore, and had been in Australia
18 years. He was 12 j'ears with Lord Roberts in the
Afghan War. He was then promoted to be lieutenant,
and served in Burmah, after which he resigned and came
to Australia. He had the Afghan medal with two clasps.
He fought at the Khyber Pass and Oabul.
The touching yarn won’t hold water. The Afghan
War didn’t last 12 years or even two. It began in
’79, and ended in less than a year. Roberts’ divi-
sion did not advance to Cabul through the Khyber
Pass, but through another much to the south
of it. It fought two rather severe actions on
the way, and wintered at Cabul, where it
was blockaded, and in the spring marched
across country to Candahar, where it fought
another general action with Ayub Khan’s
forces, and finally got back to India through yet
another pass still further south. Plainly, “ Lord
Roberts ” has been dragged into the story for the
sake of effect. Possibly the insolvent did once
belong to a native regiment, and if he served long
enough would be promoted to jemadar (which is
supposed to correspond to the rank of lieutenant
in European regiments). But if he had stayed a
few years longer he would have become snbadar
and gained a pension. It would be interesting to
know why he didn’t. It is an uncommon sort of
native soldier who serves for 24 years and then
leaves the army without a pension.
* * • *
Roland Bottomley and Miss Essie Perrin,
of the “Hook of Holland” Co., left a legacy of
Costs behind them in Adelaide. A motor they
were in ran into an unguarded hole on the half-
made electric tram lines. Then a procession of
things happened :—(1) Ringwood, owner of the
car, recovered £45 from the contractors, and,
getting it, gave them an indemnity against any
further claims; (2) Bottomley and Miss Perrin
made a further claim, and got £l5; (3) the con-
tractors collected both the £45 and the £l5 from
their Accident Insurance Co. But there is a (4),
and over that there is a dispute; the contractors
admittedly on behalf of the Insurance Co.—have
been trying to get £l5 from Ringwood under his
indemnity. He says he guaranteed them against
further claim, and as somebody else paid that
claim (as well as his claim) there is nothing for
him to pay. So far, the Courts have been with
him; but Costs have long ago eaten up all the
£l5, and their appetite is still good.
* * * *
The splendid munificence of the Vic.
Shire Council of Braybrook will presently induce
a rush of European immigrants if it isn’t careful.
It lately employed one Benjamin Greig as
nuisance inspector, collector of dog fees, inspector
of thistles, etc., etc., at a fixed salary of £3O.
For being “ dogman ” he got an extra tenner, and
for viewing the too-frequent thistle he was voted
another fiver, provided he covered 80 square miles
of country and served notices four times a year.
He was also allowed to work as “ day man ” when
he could find time, and it is recorded in red ink
that one year his total income reached a stupend-
ous £9O. Apparently this great wealth overcame
him and he couldn’t find time to spend it, so he
resigned, assuring the council that he did so be-
cause he couldn’t do justice to the work. There-
upon the Braybrook land-owners, after much
thought, decided to beg a local official to tackle
the job at a trifle less than the old rate ; failing
him, they feared they would have to advertise the
“ position ” at the same old figure—£3o and extras.
* * * *
“C.A.8.” : “Star” has been deluded
concerning the new R.C. marriage laws. Rome
does not forbid “mixed marriages.” Its attitude
is that it doesn’t approve of them. An R.C.
priest is allowed to celebrate a “mixed mar-
riage.” But an agreement must be signed
that all children of such a marriage shall
be brought up in the R.C. faith. So long
as the officiating cleric in a mixed
marriage is an R.C. priest, the union
is recognised and blessed by the
Church—this even though the
agreement above-mentioned hasn’t
been signed. The children of
“ mixed marriages ” celebrated in
accordance with prescribed con-
ditions are most con-
sidered legitimate. Let “Star”
read Cardinal Moran’s penny
tract, “The New Marriage Laws,”
or, more fully, Father Cleary s
“ Catholic Marriages,” and he will
be enabled to bring confusion on
those who have been treating him injuriously as
to his legs.
~ * * *
“ Shellback ” : A par is going the rounds
(it was in The Bulletin of February 18) about a
British (Glasgow) ship which had arrived in Port
Phillip with a master and a mate and 26 out of a
crew of 29 who could not speak English. Don’t
know how this Glasgow ship has managed it.
British maritime law has for its ABO these two
cardinal principles :
(1) Every British ship shall have as master or mate an
officer with a British certificate ;
(2) No foreigner shall qualify for a British certificate
until he can pass the examinations in the English
language.
The Imperial Merchant Shipping Act doesn’t mind
lascars and Dagos for the crew, but in the interests
of the British owner the officers must know
English.
SITTING OUT.
THE MAN: “ There seem to be fewer lights here
than there were last year.”
T HE GIRL: “Oh , yes! They’ve improved the
place a lot lately.”
The sworn valuations of land in Oxford-
street, Sydney, are put at £350 per foot so far as
one side of the street is concerned, but for the
other side the figure is only £lOO. This is because
women shopping in Oxford-street persist in walk-
ing down the one side, and all inducemen s and
attractions won’t make them take to the other
side. A returned African explorer once told of a
pathway made by the nigger population between
two neighboring villages. This path, years back,
had made a long detour round a fallen tree. Ihe
tree had decayed away, but the niggers still made
the long detour round the obstruction that wash t
there, and nothing the explorer could say would
induce them to take the direct route. The
returned explorer held the uncivilised man up to
scorn over the incident, and the chances are that
he would now say something very disrespectful
about women if he wandered into Oxford-street.
THE RESTRICTIONS OF GOOD
BREEDING.
GERTIE: “Come along, you had girl! If I
wasn’t a little lady I’d box your ears.”
The parson in the Cow country has a
pretty hard row to hoe. On the one side, as the
Rev. D. Allen told his little mob at Lismore the
other day, some of the Casino people wouldn’t
stop inside the pearly gates if Jersey cows were
not admitted too. Yet, if the North Coast
(N.S.W.) parson should agree to admit the cows
to suit the farmer, he wouldn’t have a hope of
yarding the youngsters, who begin to instinctively
hate Cow. Therefore the parson has to hedge on
the subject: the old man can have the heavenly
Cow, but the youngster is encouraged to keep the
narrow track with the promise that there’ll be no
milkin’ there.
“ Monfcalex ” : The re-
cently-assumed attitude of the
R.O. Church about “mixed”
marriages emphasises afresh
The Bulletin's old-time con-
tention that marriage by re-
gistration ought to be made
the only legally valid union.
Those who wished to superadd
the ecclesiastical embroidery
would still be at full liberty to
do so; but, since it lies ulti-
mately with the State to say
who is properly married and
who isn’t, and, since the State
knows —or should know-
nothing about creeds, the civil
marriage should be the only
indispensable one. No hard-
ship would thus be inflicted on
anybody, because, presumably,
the followers of the various
Churches would continue to
get themselves nominally
united by the ministers thereof.
But, with the civil marriage as
the sine qua non, there would
be no need for such ministers
to hold licenses, because, in
the eyes of the law, the Church
function would be merely cere-
mony —pleasing, doubtless, to
the feelings and satisfactory to
the consciences of those con-
cerned, but entering not at all
into the “essence of the con-
tract.”
• » *
“Millions of hearts re-
joiced as the thermometer fell
and the ice thickened.. .. That
the mercury would stay down
was the prayer of all England.”
Thus Sydney Daily Tele-
graph's London correspondent
about the intense cold of
Christmas-time in England.
But what of the thousands of
hearts that fell with the ther-
mometer—the hearts in the
hungry, ill-nourished, badly-
clothed bodies that swarm in
the London slums ; the shiver-
ing, starving fifth of England,
whom the bitter British winter slays, directly or
indirectly, by hundreds? “The prayer of all
England ’’-the pitiful snobbery of it!
* * *
The asininity of legal procedure, or of red
tape, or of both, was illustrated in a caricaturish
way'in the Melbourne Criminal Court a day or
two ago. A man was docked on a charge of bur-
glariously entering a railway station, and was
found as guilty as Gehenna. He had a hearty list
of prior convictions, but, because the catalogue
was not actually attached to the presentment
of the charge, the Judge could not officially
recognise it in sentencing the prisoner.
Through some felony or mischance, a varlet
had omitted to attach the precious list to
the equally precious presentment with a pin
or a paper fastener. It seems that, when the
two are separate, they must be properly united
by a pin or paper fastener. If they are sent up
divorced, the Judge cannot see the document,
and he can then only deal with the prisoner
as a novitiate. Or, if he doesn’t, he must pretend to.
* * * *
It was from the recently-wrecked Penguin
that a misguided passenger once fired and hit
“Belqrus Jack,” the white fish which for
many years has piloted vessels through the French
Pass, between Picton and the West Coast (M.L.).
After that outrage “Jack” was protected by
special Act of Parliament—the only fish that
ever had that honor accorded him. But never
more, according to popular belief, would he go on
duty for the Penguin ; and there was a pretty
general superstition among Maoriland mariners
that something bad would happen some day to the
ship whose passenger had used the old pilot so
despitefully. „ » *
The Victorian township of Sunbury, that
little oasis in a wilderness of locked-up lands, is
having dreadful luck. After months of argument
over its water supply, Sunbury was beaten, and is
now both dry and angry. Latterly it persuaded
the Government to help it put up an electric light
installation, and the contractors had made fair
progress up to last week, when a casual cow
consumed the plans and specifications; so
things are, except when the cow moves, at a
standstill. There was talk of capturing the
beast and subjecting her to an operation tor
appendicitis ; but so much of Sunbury as doesn t
live on sheep exists on cow, wherefore the animal
is taboo and its secret places are not to be lightly
explored. And, anyhow, they don t know tor
certain which cow to explore.
THE FLYING WORD.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
London.—The Florida crashed into the Republic’s side,
abreast of the engine-room. Two of the Republic s and
four of the Florida’s passengers were killed by the impact.
In response to ethergrams from the Republic, numerous
liners, including the White Star steamer Baltic, hastened
to the scene. .
The United Wireless Telegraph Company is establishing
four high-power stations on the Pacific Coast, to transmit
ethergrams direct to the Atlantic coast \ also 250 stations
in the United States for intermediate services.— Cables.
The old lines trail across the plains
And climb the mountain spurs,
The poles go flitting by the trains
That seek the forest firs ;
The torpid cables in the ooze,
Like serpents deep in brine,
Spit ’neath the seas their flecks of news—
The Flying Word is mine I
The old lines, singing in the wind,
Cling to the trail’s dim edge ;
The slim posts stand where they can find
Foothold on cliff and ledge ;
And ever sigh the threat’ning trees
Above the talking wires,
That chatter of small mysteries
’Tween cities and camp-fires.
The sunken cables, seeming dead
And careless of the gale
That rag'es long miles overhead,
Tell undisturbed their tale ;
But unprotected still are they,
Their voices will be dumb
When from the distant light of Day
The cruiser’s grapnels come.
The metal heart-strings of this Earth
That sing by sea and trail
The songs of Tragedy and Mirth
Are, like their makers, frail ;
But that white, crackling spark that leaps
Across Infinity
No pole-strung, copper highway keeps—
It flies o’er land and sea.
The racing liner, out of sight
Beyond the world’s grey rim,
Flings back across the rolling night
The message gay or grim ;
The cry for help, the last good-bye,
Ride on the magic spark
That, ghost-like, flies beneath the sky
And scorns the groping dark.
The lonely forest station keeps
Its watch above the pines ;
It does not own the call that creeps
Along the earth-borne lines,
But, with its eager brain alight,
It thinks the thoughts aloud,
Whilst words fall from the Infinite
Like arrows from a cloud.
The old lines trail across the plains
And climb the mountain spurs,
The poles go flitting by the t rains
That seek the forest firs ;
The torpid cables in the ooze,
Like serpents deep in brine,
Spit 'neath the seas their flecks of news —
The Flying Word is mine!
N.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT in En e ,an «' )
o 1 A • .i. 1 a •. , • , • ■***■■*■■ rfcmii beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented ftfthur Leplastrier & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
rr»r " M wumamam — Ml min n I - - ~ -
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDIGO : Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining- Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK —Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
THE WILDCAL
COLUMN
The Westralian Agricultural State Bank,
from the outset:—
Interest
Working' paid
June, Income Expenses. bvßank. Loss. Deficit.
1897 .. £1,062 £llOl ? ? ?
1898 .. 2,240 1279 ? ? £914
Profit.
1899.. 3,358 1254 £1,841 £263 651
1900 .. 4,162 1240 2,519 403 248
Reserves.
1901 .. 4,718 1451 2,892 375 127
1902 .. 5,240 1656 3,341 243 370
1903 .. 6,841 2207 4,018 616 986
1904 .. 9,612 1959 5,617 2036 3,022
1905 .. 12,858 2520 7,929 2409 5,431
1906 .. 16,215 2541 9,920 3754 9,185
1907 .. 21,279 3928 12,979 4372 13,557
1908.. 29,682 7086 17,959 4637 18,194
This bank was started when they still had a pretty loose
way of doing things in the West —when they had a lordly
fashion, and didn’t trouble much about such paltry
things as accounts and audits. Consequently the figures
for the first two or three years are very fragmentary.
Since then settlement in the West has advanced rapidly.
At the outset the bank didn’t do very much to help ; the
original Act gave it hardly any power worth mentioning,
but there have been two Or three amending Acts. The
accounts, if absurdly late, are now very well presented—
thanks partly to those amending Acts and partly to
Auditor-General Toppin, who has done very good work in
introducing method to Westralia’s State book-keeping.
So far as profit goes, the past year wasn’t very
successful. Expenses, as the next table shows, have
increased very rapidly :
Advances Proportion
Made Total Expenses to
During Advances Total Mortgages
June, Year. Made. Repaid. percent.
1897 .. £15,270 £22,300 £4 18 9
1898 .. 27,292 49,592 £236 2 11 5
1899 .. 23,934 73,526 2,001 1 15 1
1900 .. 14,660 88,186 3,311 1 9 2
1901 .. 11,488 99,674 5,107 110 8
1902 .. 21,014 120,688 7,137 1 9 2
1903 .. 15,978 136,666 13,630 1 15 1
1904 .. 78,334 215,000 25,373 1 0 8
1905 .. 82,600 297,600 47,097 1 0 1
1906 .. 96,564 394,164 70,699 0 15 9
1907 .. 131,271 525,177 104,643 018 8
1908 .. 218,421 743,598 133,396 1 3 2
It will thus be seen that the amount outstanding on
mortgage is now £610,202, as against £420,534 a year
previously. The increased outlay is mainly the result of
a decision 'that much closer supervision was necessary
■with regard to the outlay of the advances. Comparatively
speaking, the land itself in many cases is worth little ;
auout four-fifths of the advances are made for “develop-
mental purposes.” The security t,hus rests mainly in the
improvements. Now, probably attracted by the excep-
tionally easy terms on which land is available in Wes-
tralia, a big proportion of those who have taken up land
over there are new-chum farmers. The bank came at last
to the conclusion that a great deal of its money was being'
wasted by these settlers; hence the closer inspection and
the increased expenditure. Practically the bank has had
to turn itself into a concern which provides advice as well
as coin. Moreover, the good land in Westralia occurs only
in patches, and the patches are a long' way apart. To
reduce the cost of inspection while improvements are
going on, progress payments are made on the certificate
of approved neighbors ; and naturally, though that’s a
very good idea as far as it goes, it isn’t safe to be allowed
\ ery far out of the bank’s sight. It is pretty clear, how-
ever, that the trustees reckon that their worst trouble is
from those inexperienced parties who, probably as the
result of the tali talk of the State’s own agents, reckon
that Westralian land is a lot better than it is. There
may be good land handy to railways and towns; but
settlement is now mostly away out where the land is
very mixed, and it is evident that in many cases less than
what the trustees regard as a living area has been taken
up. “We anticipate an increasing number of small hold-
ings, principally homestead farms, falling into our hands,”
they report; and again—“ The bulk of settlement must
continue in this [mixed] class of country ; and we deem
it a better policy to establish a smaller number of settlers
on farms of a profitable area than to continue the present
method of allowing persons to select areas so restricted
as to be incapable of profitable development.” After over
10 years’ experience this bank ought to be in the very
best position to form an opinion on this question of what
is a living area ; and its remarks smite the present land
policy very hard. A large proportion of failures will soon
smash the movement on to the land in Westralia ; and if
those failures are avoidable a Government can’t be too
rapid about avoiding them.
The bank’s capital is provided by mortgage
bonds, guaranteed by the State, and issued at 3£ and 3J
per cent. Last year’s lot cost 3£ per cent. The accumu-
lated profits are invested at fixed deposit at 3 per cent. ;
but presumably this is only pending an annual drawing
of bonds. The whole of the surplus income, “after pro-
viding for the payment of interest due on mortgage
bonds, and for all expenses of maintenance and adminis-
tration,” must be paid into a Redemption Account, so
the whole of the reserves belong to that fund. Instead of
being on fixed deposit at 3 per cent., the fund should
therefore be represented by repurchased bonds carrying
3£ per cent. Possibly it doesn’t matter much what a
bank calls its reserves ; still, in view of probable losses, a
contingency fund, apart from this redemption fund,
might be found a convenience later on.
***•*•
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Co., Ltd., which is the Citizens’ Life Association, Ltd.,
with the Mutual Life Association grafted on to it: —
Ordinary Life Department.
Expenses Writ- Added
(including ten to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends), off. Funds.
1898.. £98,262 £18,012 £14,373 £7,000 £58,877
1899.. 124,841 22,276 18,726 375 83,464
1900.. 145,531 41,252 17,891 86,388
1901.. 168,520 34,282 26,584 107,654
1902.. 197,424 34,492 27,533 245 135,154
1903.. 217,062 39,472 29,766 147,824
1904.. 239,820 58,450 31,894 1,531 147,945
1905.. 255,130 64,962 33,545 20,572 136,051
1906.. 278,713 62,267 34,867 395 181,184
1907.. 299,001 83,803 24,190 12,925 178,083
(The amalgamation took place at this point)
1908 / 667,435 274,307 74,674 1 lfil ...
(Special writing down of assets 157,054/ ,
This writing down for the year ought to be explained
first. When the amalgamation was fixed up it was
arranged that the assets of both offices should be pooled
(with certain reservations), each office’s assets going in
practically at the valuation which the other office put
upon them. In other words, if there was a difference of
opinion regarding any valuation, the item had to go in at
the lower value. But it was also provided that for seven
years no M.L. A. assets could be realised except at the
request of the trustees ; and any excess realised over valu-
ation goes to the credit of the M.L.A. policy-holders.
There has to be separate book-keeping for these M.L.A.
policy-holders for other reasons ; for seven years, for
instance, they are to be charged a special expense
rate. For the present, it is 15 per cent, of the pre-
mium income, as agaiust about 25 per cent, hitherto,
when the two offices were working- independently.
This 15 percent, rate is guaranteed by the old Citi-
zens’ Co.—the only branch of the concern which could
guarantee anything, being the only 7 one possessed of
capital apart from the policy-holders’ funds. A revalu-
ation of assets was of course indispensable ; the values
had to be brought to the same standard, otherwise one
office or the other would have been robbing its policy-
holders—or, at any rate, paying something severe for
the goodwill of the other business, which would have
amounted to much the same thing as robbery. The re-
valuations were made., and the revenue account shows
the result:—
Written off Citizens’Funds .. .. £2,499
„ „ M.L.A. „ .. .. 154,555
Total as above .. .. £157,054
The result is a very fine tribute to the management of
the Citizens’, 30 far, at any rate, as its investments are
concerned ; and as the security 7 of an office depends
largely on its investments, the result speaks well for the
security of the office. ft is fair to assume that the
management which invests wisely will also not be
much of a fool with regard to the other branches of
the business. For Citizens’ policy-holders, however, the
most cheer-ful thought will probably 7 be that, as a result
of an overhaul which, in the nature of things, must have
been thorough, the Citizens’ figures are found to be as
good underneath as they 7 look on the surface. When only
£2499 is written off a total of £1,417,841, everybody has a
right to feel pleased with himself.
But what of the writing-down of the M.L.A.
assets ? The position as to that office was like this :
Total funds (31/12/’O7) .. .. .. £2,157,599
Written off 154,555
Net thrown into the pot .. .. £2,003,044
That is, about 7£ per cent, was written off. Certainly 7,
this may be excessive ; if it is, the M.L.A. policy-holders
get the benefit of it to the extent shown above. Now,
the M.L.A. was not a badly-managed concern. It was a
little bit old-fashioned certainly, but it was the very
essence of respectability. Security, it was affirmed (by
outsiders, as well as by itself), was its strong point. The
fact that, on an investigation of the true value of the
securities of this office, a writing down of 7| per cent, was
found necessary, suggests that some very unexpected
things might happen if a similar investigation were made
of other offices. And it unquestionably ought to be
made. For years The Bulletin has been urging that it
should be made; and the Insurance Commission
which is now groping and clawing for evidence,
though it is pretty certain that it will not make
such an investigation itself, may at least be expected to
recommend the appointment of an officer whose business
it will be to carry the inquiry into effect. Obviously it is
unfair to stuff an insurance balance-sheet with paper-
assets—that is, to allege that the office possesses a vast
deal more than it does possess. It is bad enough in con-
nection with any business concern ; it is much worse in
connection with an insurance concern, because all the
time co-partners are being paid out on the basis of the
fictitious value, taking out of the funds (in the
shape of bonuses) more than their full and proper
share, and leaving the whole burden of the true
shortage to be borne by some future policy-
holders. In this case it is satisfactory to find
that the shortage is no greater than will be provided
for by little more than three years’ profits of the old
M.L.A. In other words, the M.L.A. policy-holders will
get no bonus for the last three years of the M.L.A. ; but
for the past year they will get the greater part of the
bonus earned. To help out the necessary adjustments,
old M.L.A. assurance policies have been valued on a 4 per
cent, basis instead of the former 3J per cent, basis. On
all assurance business in the new office (known as the
M.L.C.), the Hra 3 per cent, basis is adopted, which
is slightly less drastic than the Om 2f per cent,
basis adopted in 1906 by the Citizens’. Consulting-
actuary Ralph Price Hardy, the English insur-
ance authority, who is at present in Australia, points
out, however, that “ as the valuation of some of the en-
dowment risks was further strengthened, the net result
was to hold a total larger reserve than was formerly
shown.”
Turning now to the Industrial branch, these
results show up :
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). off. Funds.
1898 .. £156,493 £51,557 £78,710 £194 £26,032
1899 .. 165,514 53,125 92,968 143 19,278
1900 .. 176,406 49,398 98,681 228 28 099
1901 .. 184,112 43,649 99,756 42 40 665
1902 .. 188,688 41,707 110,234 . 36 747
1903 .. 192,491 53,543 103,860 35’088
1904 .. 201,166 58,169 89,596 53 401
1905 .. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8577 55!715
1906 .. 205,910 46,757 75,251 849 83,053
1907 .. 235,086 55,770 82,820 96 496
1908 .. 217,371 98,068 84,268 1734 33’301
The maturing of endowments is mainly responsible for
the large increase in claims. No summary of the actuarial
valuation of this branch is published with the annual re-
port, an omission which might with advantage be rectified.
The 10 per cent, dividend is borne by the Industrial
branch. Hitherto the paid-up capital has been £20,000 ;
but a further £20,007 has during the year been subscribed
in advance of calls. This money is entitled, not to the
10 per cent, dividend, but apparently to a 5 per cent,
preference, if there be the profits to pay it. In addition,
the shareholders are entitled to, and now take, one-fifth
of the amount declared by way of bonus to the M.L.C.
policy-holders. (They are not entitled to any part of the
bonuses accruing to the old M.L.A. policies.) In both
branches there has been a good increase of business ; but,
among other things, consideration of the expense rate
(now a somewhat involved matter), must be postponed
for a week.
* * * *
The New Zealand Insueance Co.
Written To Re- Re-
Loss. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Nov., £ £ £ £ £
1898.. 14,262 10 p.c. = 20,000 205.459
Profit.
1899 .. 51,409 10 „ „ 20,000 31,409 236,868
1900.. 69,617 12£ „ ~25,000 44,617 281,485
1901.. 55,119 13§ „ ~ 27,500 13,937 13,682 295,167
1902.. 55,526 15 „,, 30,000 25,526 320,693
1903.. 73,443 15 „ ~30,000 4,354 39,089 359,782
1904.. 71,829 15 ~ ~30,000 41,829 401,611
1905 .. 69,375 15 ~ ~ 30,000 39,375 440,986
Profit on purchase of N.Z. Accident
Insurance Co 17,696 458,682
Loss.
C 167,435 10 p.c. = 25,000 266,247
I Premiums on new share issue .. 25,485 291,732
1906 J Transferred from unearned pre-
miums reserve 30,000 321,732
l Profit on sale of securities .. 15,054 336 786
Profit.
1907.. 91,711 10 p.c. = 30,000 61,711 398,497
1908.. 78,619 10 ~ ~30,000 3,231 45,388 443,885
This progressive co., which has pushed itself into most
corners of the world, had to put up with some of the
natural consequences in 1906, when the ’Frisco disturb-
ance hit it heavily. Over that the co. had to pay out
upwards of quarter of a million. In view of the great
general increase in its business and its risks, and in view
also of the severe cut in the reserves, the co. very pro-
perly decided to increase the capital; and though the
time wasn’t opportune to get very big premiums for the
new shares, still a shade over 50 per cent, above par was
realised. Up to 1905 the paid capital was only £200,000 ;
then £50,000 (in 25,000 shares) was paid for the Accident
Co.’s business ; and the new issue also consisted of 25,000
shares paid to £2. On all these shares there is a liability
of £B. The reserves, as shown above, amount to
£443,885, or equal to £2 9s. per share. Of these reserves,
however, £265,000 is for re-insurance. It seems a liberal
provision, as the total amount paid in claims in the past
12 months w 7 as no more than £409,358, and that was
above the average. Still it will be seen that at the best
some of the reserves are not true reserves.
Last year was not a favorable year for fire and
marine offices ; and this year has not opened at all well,
so far as Australasian marine business is concerned.
Yet, as the following- comparison shows, the fall in profits
in 1908 compared with 1907 was due entirely to an in-
crease in the cost of getting and keeping the business: —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64’2 p.c. 29’6 p.c.
1900.. 342,036 195,804 95,651 57'2 „ 27'9 ~
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64'2 ~ 26’2 ~
1906.. 565,149 ] 1285 696} 129 > 361 nl ' 9 »> 22 ' 9 »
1907.. 616,417 144,765 65'9 „ 23'5 „
1908.. 620,425 409,358 159,323 65'9 ~ 257 „
♦General. fSan Francisco disaster.
Generally speaking, the co. shows a heavy loss rate and a
low expense rate, compared, for instance, with the
Sydney Mercantile Mutual’s 267 per cent, loss rate and
53'8 per cent, expense rate. The explanation, no doubt,
lies mainly in the N.Z. Oo.’s large marine business and in
its considerable re-insurance business with “ treaty ”
offices—a give-and-take arrangement for the distribution
of world-wide risks. The recent increase in the expense
rate is probably due to keener competition for business,
especially in Maoriland ; for there, on the threatened ap-
pearance of the State fire office, the rates were cut to an
extent for which the cos. will yet be sorrier even than
they are already. Excellent additions have been made
during recent normal years to the reserves ; yet they
have been none too big ; for the extension of business
has been so remarkable that, despite the increase
of capital, the funds are by no means large in pro-
portion to risks —the figures are below the average
of either Australian or English offices. Moreover, too
large a sum —£245,329—is in “ company’s freehold office
premises and other properties ; ” and another £60,029 is in
mortgages and shares. That certainly still leaves about
£435,000 in cash and Government securities and deben-
tures after meeting liabilities ; but still there are obvious
objections to an insurance co., which is liable to have to
produce a very 7 large sum at very short notice, tying up
so much of its capital in “office premises and other
properties.” One good thing, however, can be put
against that: the co. hasn’t been induced by the high
rates offering to plunge at all heavily into the extremely
risky mortgage business in Maoriland.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Sydney)
Added Nomi-
Written to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. 'serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £727 Nil £2OOO £45,010
June, 1903.. 5906 Nil 2500 £3906 48,916
Dec., 1903.. 6609 Nil 500 6109 55,025
June, 1904.. 6311 Nil 6311 61,336
Written off : Capital, £73,384 ; Reserves, £44,909 16,427
Dec., 1904.. 6011 6 p.c. = £5503 508 16,935
June, 1905.. 3977 Nil 1308 2669 19,604
Dec., 1905.. 7127 8 p.c.= 3669 3458 23,062
June, 1906.. 6999 8 „ „ 3669 3330 26,392
Deo., 1906.. 7897 8 „ ~ 3669 4228 30,620
June, 1907.. 7546 10 „ ~ 4586 2960 33,580
Dec., 1907.. 6287 6 „ ~ 2752 99 3436 37,016
June, 1908.. 5635 6 ~ „ 2752 99 2784 39,800
Dec., 1908.. 4996 6 „ ~ 2752 2244 42,044
Like those of every other business which depends directly
upon the weather, this co.’s profits are erratic. If the
weather and the season are good, profits are good. For
some time past, largely owing to drought in Victoria
during the early part of last year, and also to dry condi-
tions in various sections of N. S. Wales, fat stock has
brought high prices in the local market, and nothing
much has been done by this co. in the way of freezing for
export; consequently, its profits have shrunk. Compara-
tively high prices for farm and dairy products hit the co.
in other directions also. The profit and loss account, as
published, is the merest skeleton ; in fact, it is hardly
worth calling a skeleton—it consists of a mere dry bone
or two. Not even the total of the expenditure is set out,
let alone anything in the shape of details; therefore,
no opinion can be expressed as to whether the concern
is extravagantly managed or otherwise, nor can the
growth (or otherwise) of expenses be followed. Nor do
the-accounts disclose the amount which is spent on
“renewals, etc.,” and written off ; they simply say what
the net profits are “ after providing for renewals, etc.”
The reserves are as follows : Redemption fund, £10,597 ;
depreciation fund, £20,141; reserve for renewals and con-
tingencies, £9154 ; unappropriated profits, £2152. It
seems highly probable that some of these reserves are not
true reserves at all, but a mere set-off against partly
worn-out capital represented by plant, and that they will
be drawn upon presently to pay for large replacements ;
or they may be written off to counterbalance the writing-
down of assets on revaluation. The latter had to be done
in 1904, when £73,384 had also to be written off capital—
an experience which must necessarily prejudice one
against accepting this co.’s valuations. Further, if the
current renewals don’t fully counterbalance current
depreciation, clearly a part of the “ net profits ” shown
above is not really net profit at all. The only thing cer-
tain is shown hereunder :
Liquid
Liabilities. Assets. > Surplus.
June, 1905 .. £25,070 £40,194 £15,124
June, 1906 .. 19,206 46,816 27,610
June, 1907 .. 22,898 55,099 32,201
Dec., 1907 .. 23,196 56,206 33,010
June, 1908 .. 18,707 53,506 34,799
Dec., 1908 .. 17,042 53,433 36,391
The liquid assets include stocks on hand £10,394, and
sundry debtors £22,953 ; three years ago the items stood—
stocks, £13,333 ; sundry debtors, £25,292. These are not
the most liquid of assets, arid they are to some extent
necessarily estimates; still, the shrinkage of book debts
is a favorable feature. As an investment the stock has
the disadvantage of belonging to a co. which tells so little
about itself, and which previously had, to do a severe
writing down. It may be better than it looks, or it may
be a good deal worse—only the fortunate “insider” can
tell. And one doesn’t like this uncertainty in connection
with a co. that has previously had to write off capital.
The paid capital is £91,730 in 183,460 shares paid to 10s.
each, and liable for another 2s.
* * * *
WILLIAMSTOWN GAS Co. (Vic.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves
Dec., 1903.. £lO4l 7J p.c. = £937 £lOO £4 £5935
June, 1904.. 1237 8 „ ~1000 150 87 6022
Dec., 1904.. 1252 8 „ ~ 1000 170 82 6104
June, 1905.. 1321 8 „ ~1000 250 71 6175
Dec., 1905.. 1357 9 „ „ 1125 230 2 6177
June, 1906.. 1519 9 „ ~1125 250 144 6321
Dec., 1906.. 1787 9 „ ~ 1125 350 312 6633
June, 1907.. 1653 9 „ ~1125 250 278 6911
Dec., 1907.. 1894 10 ~ ~ 1250 350 294 7205
June, 1908.. 1860 10 „ ~1250 350 260 7465
Dec., 1908.. 1923 10 „ „ 1250 250 423 7888
Though this co. early last year bought the small works
for the supply of Newport and Spotswood, and for a while
had a small overdraft, the balance is on the right side
again. The new purchase ran to £5OOO. The co.’s
liabilities (Dec. 31) were £lO9l, and the liquid assets (apart
from stocks) were £3260. The reserves are, of course,
used in the business, which continues to make steady
progress, and the co. also continues to present its accounts
in a full and clear way, which N. S. Wales and Queens-
land gas cos. might well follow. Probably Victorian cos.
would be no better, as a rule, if the law of that State
didn’t keep them up to the scratch. Fortunately it does.
* * * *
The Warwick Gas Light, Power and Coal
Co. (Warwick, Q.): —
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1905 .. 5 p.c. =£394 £4O £235
June, 1906 .. £558 5 „ „ 394 100 £64 299
Dec., 1906 .. 517 5 „ ~ 394 100 23 322
June, 1907.. 624 5 „ ~ 394 150 80 402
Dec., 1907.. 572 5 „ ~ 394 130 48 450
June, 1908.. 642 5 „ ~ 394 171 77 527
Dec., 1908.. 584 5 ~ ~ 394 140 50 577
This little co. has a capital of £15,000 in £1 shares fully
paid ; and on December 31 its debts to the public
amounted to only £5. On the other side, in addition to
its fixed investment (plant, mains, works, etc.) and stores,
it had £7OB of liquid assets. The fixed investment
stands at £15,164 ; and the amount provided for depreci-
ation in the past year is equal to 1 per cent. This
is, of course, besides the money spent on maintenance.
Other wear and tear is, apparently, well provided for, and
retort renewals are charged up along with working ex-
penses. The business is progressive, the accounts are
well presented, and the management seems to be prudent.
• * * *
The Australasian Plate-Glass Insurance
Co. (Melbourne): —
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902 .. £1059 20 p.c. =£looo £59 £2595
1903 .. 936 13i „ ~ 800 136 2731
1904 .. 1182 134 „ 800 382 3113
1905 .. 982 13| „». 800 182 3295
1906 .. 995 134 „ „ 800 £693 2797
1907 .. 962 134 „ 800 162 2959
1908 .. 1060 16f „ „ 1000 60 3019
This little co., working one of the side-lines of insurance,
finds it very profitable in a small way. And that is all
the more striking because this isn’t an age when in-
surance concerns, as a rule, shovy much success when
they can’t offer a wide range of goods ; hence the fire
cos. have taken up all the side-lines—accident, plate-
glass, burglary, guarantee, employers’ liability, etc.
Some of them have also taken up stock-insurance, and a
few have gone in for sickness policies. This little co.,
however, knows its beat, and, though it too has competi-
tion, still i t manages to make good profits without much
risk. Its investments are a very profitable lot, returning a
shade over 5 per cent. ; and as practically allits capital and
reserves are invested, itcould pay 7 per cent, on capitalout
of this revenue alone. Net premiums last year were £2720 ;
claims absorbed 31 per cent., and expenses 45 per cent. ;
and the balance was left for profits, and as provision for
the time in the always-uncertaih future when there will
be an epidemic of breakages. Besides the reserves shown
above there is a “property account, £122,” which is pro-
bably a provision for the depreciation of mortgages or
other assets.
* * * . *
The Sydney Meat Preserving Co. (Sydney):
Pastoral-
Loss ists’ Sub- Added
on Busi- sidy Re- Written to Re- Re-
ness. ceived. off serves, serves.
Dec., 1902 .. £3732 £3222 £5OOO £63,407
June, 1903 .. 4366 3718 5000 57,759
Dec., 1903 .. 9494 5581 53,846
June, 1904.. 7824 4028 50,050
Dec., 1904 .. 4367 4549 . £lB2 50,232
June, 1905 .. 6315 3619 47,536
Dec., 1905 .. 4390 4529 139 47,675
June, 1906.. 4229 4401 172 47,847
Dec., 1906 .. 4949 5663 714 48,561
Profit.
June, 1907.. £930 930 49,491
Dec., 1907 .. 103 103 49,594
Loss.
June, 1908 .. 4028 45,566
Profit.
Dec., 1908.. 700 —, 46,266
“Our purchases of fat stock at the Flemington sale
yards,” the directors say, “have been much more exten-
sive than the previous half-year. The heavy and uncer-
tain markets have been met by our buyer, and on many
occasions a collapse has been averted by his operations.”
That explains why this co. doesn’t worry about such a
trifling thing as dividends. It is composed of big sheep
and cattle growers, who give the co. a rebate (or “ sub-
sidy ”) on its purchases ; so that when stock is plentiful,
and the public is liable to get the benefit of reasonably
cheap meat, in comes the co.’s buyer, and bids up ; and
the public has to outbid his fictitious bids—fictitious
because on account of the “subsidy,” or rebate, he
doesn’t actually have to pay what he offers. The big
suppliers are quite content with that; they don’t want a
dividend. The co. serves its purpose by making the public
pay high prices. The total amount of the subsidy
received during the half-year used to be set out;
but when E. W. O’Sullivan began to ask questions in the
House, and quote the figures, the co. left off giving de-
tails in its published accounts. As a scheme for defeat-
ing the law of supply and demand in the interests of the
big cattle and sheep raisers, this co. hasn’t its superior in
Australia. Moreover, w'hile it bleeds the public, it isn’t
fair to the other packers of meat, because they don’t get
any rebate—they have to pay what they bid. Conse-
quently this co. can afford to undersell them. Also it
doesn’t trouble about making any profits directly ; it
doesn’t seek any return on its capital; and of course no
others who are in the business merely as meat-packers
can afford to work on those lines.
» * * *
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co.
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £21,296 £lO,OOO £4,002 £51,345
June, 1904 .. 41,283 20,000 20,300 52,328
Dec., 1904 .. 51,119 20,000 6,937 ' 76,510
June, 1905 .. 53,596 35,000 6,205 88,901
Dec., 1905 .. 71,149 35,000 19,081 105,969
June, 1906 .. 67,535 60,000 . 7,488 106,016
Dec., 1906 .. 99,976 60,000 18,975 127,017
June, 1907 ..103,381 80,000 9,492 140,906
Dec., 1907 .. 73,350 70,000 10,000 134,256
June, 1908 .. 15,497 20,000 491 129,262
Dec., 1908 .. 51,016 Nil 10,693 169,585
Besides the amounts shown above as written off, the follow-
ing have been charged to profit and loss£l22l in
respect of the Port Kembla smelting works option, and
£750 in connection with the Umberumberka Water Trust.
These relate to schemes for improving the smelting and
water-supply services, and neilher has so far come to
anything.
The co.’s results for the half-year are unex-
pectedly good—unexpectedly in view of the dirge of
poverty now being sung by the Broken Hill Prop. But,
as briefly pointed out last week, in comparing the profiis
for the past term with that of its predecessor it is easily
possible to form an exaggerated idea of the improvement.
In the previous six months the co. had a great deal of
trouble in placing its concentrates ; in consequence, the
mill ran short time. The ore treated in the past three
half-years has been :
Dec., 1907 .. .. 110,715 tons
June, 1908 .. .. 78,803 „
Dec., 1908 .. .. 111,967 „
Now, though some expenses could be stopped when the
mill stopped during the first half of 1908, others went on
at full speed ; consequently in proportion to output
costs were very high and profits were very small. Further,
expenses have lately been cut down rigidly. While the
metal markets were high a very great deal of develop-
ment work was done. Some of this was charged up to
development; much of it was shown merely as “ mining.”
The past four terms give the following figures (fractions
omitted)
June, Dec., June, Dec.,
1907. 1907. 1908. 1908.
s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d.
Mining .. 12 0 13 5 14 9 9 3
Development 3 8 3 0 1 2 5
Milling .. 49 50 54 46
Total ..£lO 5 £ll5 £ll3 £0 14 2
That is a very remarkable drop. But turn back and see
what was done in those terms when the costs were so
much higher. Between Dec., 1905, and June, 1908, the
estimated reserves of ore increased from 1,400,000 tons to
3,500,000 tons. Apparently no estimate has been made of
the ore in reserve in Dec., 1908 ; during- the half-year a
comparatively small new' body has been discovered near
the Central (Sulphide Corporation) boundary ; but, apart
from that, nothing of consequence has been developed.
In short, the management got ready in good times for the
present bad times. It did all that it possibly could in
advance. Hence the cost figures for the past six months
are not normal; and the results give an unduly favorable
impression.
In the B. H. South’s concentrates in the half-
year there were 13,339 tons lead. The net profit, as shown
above, was £40,323. Bift of that £lO,OOO was received
for zinc tailings. Still, if the zinc tailings produced


Of.
-v
So iHdi it,
Will be
Carried
St-
out
fto
Appoint*
THC
m
m.
%
fCGfc
m
RP
Si
m
m
%
m
, ■
2%,
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE O.M
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill)
OROYA BLACK RANGE ..
OROYA BROWNHILL
SONS OF CWALIA
6.57 tons
6.25 „
4. 14
8.07
8.84
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and- 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
■*•■* **
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* # » *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavy grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4£f t. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* f 1
* • * *
James Hardie and Co. carry large and useful
stocks of Dick’s well-known belting; “ Fibro-Cement ”
Asbestos slates, sheets and silos ; “ Weston ” centrifugals ;
Fullis’ laundry machinery, gas engines, shafting, pulleys,
caustic soda, soda ash, .sodium —lowest prices, West
Circular Quay, Sydney.* G
• « * *
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, Lon-
don, 23/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited: —“There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider
the advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz., that
its policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of other such institutions, as witness the “ Twelve
Option” contract lately placed on the market.”*
* * * *
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and W ater Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depot for Best Yorkshire
“ Farnley ” Iron.*
* • « *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Roekbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the' foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. CoiiLisoN & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• » * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
* tf * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Siliserbkrg and Co., ,443 BourkefStreet,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * *
The Korting Gas Engine is entering largely in-
to big power propositions in Australia. It is a very
simple engine of the double acting “2 Cycle” Type,
receiving two impulses per rev. per cylinder, or four times
as many as the single acting “ Otto ” cycle engine. Its
action is similar to that of a steam engine, and it runs on
either “ Producer,” coke oven or town gas. Made in sizes
from 150 to 3000 8.H.-P., its close governing and steadiness
in turning moment make it a first-rate engine for electrical
and heavy duty. Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent
Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, are
Sole Agents in Australia.*
LOHMANN COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
80LE AGENTS for |fRAIISS LOCOMOTIVES
as purchased by the Covts. of N.S.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, and all principal mining 1 com'
panies, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. &R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2 ’
(28,626 tons, averaging 38*7 per cent.) were not worth that
much, they were worth not far short of it. Take, there-
fore, the £40,323 as the half-year’s true profit; it was
equal, therefore, to £3 Os. 3d. per ton of lead. Lead
averaged £l3 ss. lid. during the term, so that, on the
basis of last half-year’s figures, all above £lO ss. Bd. for
lead is profit. (On this basis of calculation, the value of
all other metals goes, of course, towards expenses.) But
it has to be remembered that if lead rose £3 Os. 3d. above
£l3 ss. lid. per ton, it wouldn’t double the profits ; be-
cause, as shown just now, £lO,OOO of the profits for the
last six months came from the sale of zinc tailings to the
Zinc Corporation, and a rise in lead alone wouldn’t very
materially improve the value of the zinc tailings.
* * » *
Though Justice Higgins, of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court, has gone on doggedly with the Broken
Hill Prop, case, and no doubt will make an award, it is
not at all certain that the trouble will then be over. Tom
Mann, though he isn’t allowed to speak in N.S.W., has
been spouting in S. Aus., where the smelting works are ;
and, if he can have his way, the mine isn’t likely to be
allowed to start unless it starts on the old scale of opera-
tions ; and it is improbable that the B. H. Prop, will
attempt that. A struggle certainly is being made to get the
smelter and refinery hands at PortPirie to refuse to begin
at all unless the mine takes on as many hands as it had
when work was stopped. The chances are that for choice
the Prop, would rather be doing some work ; but if it is a
question of working on the old scale or not at all, it would
probably prefer not to work at all until metals look up.
It’s a gloomy outlook for Broken Hill. And it’s a gloomier
outlook still for the B. H. Prop, shareholders ; for Broken
Hill has got. the wonderfully-improved South, Sulphide
Corporation, North, and others to give it a lift ; but the
wonderfully-improved position of those mines doesn’t
help the B. H. Prop, shareholders at all.
* * * *
The ore recently cut in the Broken Hill Central
(Sulphide Corporation) mine’s “blind” shaft below the
1000 ft. level is the real stingo in lead sulphides. It has
all the characteristics, too, of a big, permanent body, and
it is remarkably rich for ore found at such a depth.
Another pleasing feature about it is that it has lime
floors —that is, the various layers of sulphides are
separated by limestone skins about an eighth of an inch
thick. It is beautiful milling stuff, and, above all, it is,
up to now, far from the region of ravaging creeps. Then,
again, it is considerably to the east of the big main
western body, which, through its westerly underlay, was
slowly but surely slipping out of the Central property as it
gained in depth. The new body should give a consider-
ably greater length of ore on the next level below the
1000 ft. than could be expected from the old lode. If the
most sanguine anticipations come true, and the occurrence
proves to be due to another saddle formation, the Central
will be able to book up to its ore reserves practically a
new mine.
* • • *
Those who are holding Broken Hill Junction
shares must find it slow and cheerless work Watching
the diamond-drill prodding the country in search of proof
of the theory that payable ore bodies do really exist in
the mine. Indications of an ore body west of the one
that was worked down to the 900 ft. level have been given
by the drill both at the 900 ft. and 775 ft. levels, but
whether it will prove payable at an average metal price is
another matter. The unfortunate part of the situation
from the Junction’s point of view is that the ore bodies
following the main lode channel are all either pitch-
ing into the Junction North or underlying into the
British, the two mines which adjoin the Junction on the
north and east. A good shoot of ore to the westward
would solve many difficulties for the Junction.
G. H. Blakemore has apparently found it un-
bearable at last, and has sent in his resignation as general
manager of the Great Cobar (N.S. W.). Consulting-engineer
and director Kendall has been occupying far too much of
the perch to allow any manager to roost on it in comfort.
The shareholders ought to know exactly what has hap-
pened ; and only Blakemore can tell them, and he isn’t
likely to unless they specially invite him to do it. No
doubt the new smelting furnaces were the last straw. It
is incredible that he had anything to do with designing
them ; it is almost incredible that anybody who knew
anything about Cobar ores had anything to do with it
either. So, as he couldn’t get decent results from
furnaces of which it is pretty safe to say
he heartily disapproved, a smelting manager was
brought out from America. For 12 months past
Blakemore has had to do many things which must have
gone against his grain—including the sacking of officers
and men for no reason at all except that they possibly
ktiew somebody who might be glad to know how things
were going at the mine. It wasn’t necessary to even
suspect that they “leaked,” much less to have any proof
of it. And when a co. is so mighty careful about things
like that, it is a fair thing to assume that the mine isn’t
the chief consideration, but that the market is.
* ■* * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Co., at
Port Kembla (N.S. W.), was able to show samples of its
first refined copper in Sydney last week. Premier Wade,
who was down there recently, seeing at what a snail’s pace
his Works Department had done its share of the job, did
the more-or-less formal starting of the refinery. It looks
very good copper, nevertheless.
m * * #
The unexpected improvement of Kyloe (N.*S. W.)
has caused a good many Sydney people to nibble at Kan-
giara; and there are now some big - city holders of the
stock. Ridiculous estimates of ore-reserves have been
made —unofficially—and shares have been put up far be-
yond the value in sight. The ore is of a complex charac-
ter, and down to about 120 ft. the mine has been rooted
pretty thoroughly for the most marketable stuff, though
there is still some copper-lead ore left. Few works are,
however, keen on copper-lead ores. Nobody, of course, can
tell what there is underneath ; but, besides the risks in-
separable from following a shoot down, there are the
metallurgical difficulties to be taken into account in this
case.
• * * •
The profit and loss account of Harden Gold
Mine (N.S. W.) for the half-year to the end of December
shows £25,580 received for gold, £7500 paid in divs., £B6O
written off for depreciation, and £5962 of a balance after
meeting all expenses. That is, the net profit for the six
months was £13,462. Development is not charged to
working expenses; but ss. per ton of stone raised is
written off. This meant that last half-year £2424 was
spent, and £l5OO was written off, leaving £924 of the six
months’ expenditure to be charged up to capital account.
The question of ore reserves is always of first-rate im-
portance in connection with the Harden. The stuff
mined and milled during the past term was 5999 tons,
worth 935. Bd.; and on December 31 it was estimated
there were 7582 tons in reserve above No. 3 level, worth
775. But—“the drive at No. 4 level, in spite of the
irregularity and low value of the ore passed through, has
developed a large tonnage ; though as no winze connections
have been made with No. 3 level on account of the
large quantity of water making.it is not yet possible to
measure this ore.”
Last year’s operations gave the bouth Kalgurl,
(IV. A.) an increase of 11,000 tons of “actual,” and 21,0001
tons of “ probable ” ore reserves. The chief features of
the year’s developments were the discovery of ore bodies
at the 1500 ft. level of the main shaft, and at the 1000 ft.
and 1200 ft. levels of Morty’s workings ; but the first
named deposit is not at present payable. The next
development of importance will be the intersection of
Morty’s lode at 1500 ft., and this event is timed to take
place about the end of March.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W. A.) has nowdone aboutl2ooft.
of driving at 2200 ft. in more than average-grade ore, and
the south face still shows sft. of lldvvt. stuff. At 2350 ft.
the first 473 fr. has averaged 12Jdwt., but the present
faces are not as good as that, and, judging by the work
done so far, the enrichment at this point is very small
potatoes compared with that at 2200 ft. But the latter
level is an exceptionally fine one, and, with the few others
above it, makes up for t 1... poor zones.
■* * * *
Star of the East (W. A.) still treads the down-
ward path. About the middle of 1907 the co. appealed
for another chance, and managed to reconstruct with a
nominal capital of £50,000, but how much cash was
actually subscribed has never transpired. Since then an
amalgamation has been effected with the Tamarack
mines, and the co. now reckons it is on a good wicket.
It is only a matter of time, however, when shareholders
will again be stirred up and given the choice of finding
more money or dropping out.
Coolgardie Gold Syndicate, which once did well
out of selling holes in the ground, now wears a very
shabby look. Speaking at the recent annual meeting,
the chairman urged shareholders to buck up, and said he
had a presentiment that things would take a turn for the
better shortly. The directors haven’t drawn fees for 10
years; and, as 10 per cent, has to be paid shareholders
before the directors get any fees, the Board will go
hungry for a long while yet, unless there is anything in
the way of office pickings.
* * * *
North Boulder has made enemies in Westralia
by selling out privately and leaving the country without
warning. The local papers are full of complaints from
disgusted people who would have given a price had they
been asked, and some of them throw out spiteful hints.
It is stated by these people that the purchase money
(variously set down at £5OO to £1000) will be recovered in
a month ; but the ore in the property will have to be a
lot better than it used to be to enable the new owners to
work it at a profit.
* * * •»
Associated Northern (W. A.) has let the Harbor
Lights go, and is now looking elsewhere for a second
string to its bow. This should not be hard to find on the
spot; but as theco. now has leanings towards fields out-
side Australia, there is a danger of a big slice of its wealth
going into some remote wild cat. Shareholders in other
opulent Westralian companies have been bled before now
through their directors knowing somebody who was on
speaking terms with a very distant cat; and the Associ-
ated Northern had better be on its guard.
* * * •
Herman Landau, at the Associated Northern
(W.A.) meeting, on the subject of deeper exploration :
“ There are many who say we ought to spend much more
money in exploring our own ground, but I think those
people are not aware of the fact that we have already
spent large sums of money in exploring much deeper than
the Ore body was found. It was found in our property
down to 550 ft.; we went to 1100 ft. without any result at
all, and the best professional gentlemen we could consult
told us it would be absolute waste of money to go down
further in that particular piece of ground.” The original
articles of association authorised the co. to engage in
mining in the West “ and elsewhere " ; but as the lawyers
advised that “ elsewhere ” meant nothing at all, a resolu-
tion was carried at the meeting empowering the Board to
acquire properties in other parts of the world, with the
proviso that shareholders have to be consulted before any
purchase is made.
* * * »
One thing that came out at the Associated
Northern meeting in London was that J. Bull now plays
second fiddle to the Frenchman in the orchestra of credit.
Some time ago the co. bought a big wad of British Con-
sols, and thought, as many people still think, that it had
the best and most secure investment on earth stowed
away in its inside pocket. But shareholders were stag-
gered to hear from Chairman Landau that British 3 per
cents, were nearly 1 per cent, lower' than French 3
per cents. Much to the relief of the meeting, Landau
quickly changed the subject.
Last month’s return from the Boulder No. 1
(W.A.) was a nasty body blow to shareholders : 3251 tons
from the Magnet property were treated for the miserable
recovery of £lB2O, equal to about 11s. 2d. per ton. It
appears that the stopes from which oz. ore was'expected
to sweeten up the crushing went back on the manage-
ment ; and, not having any bullion reserve to draw on,
they had no alternative but to declare the actual output.
Prospects, however, have much improved this month,
and as the difficulty in slimes treatment with the Ridge-
way filter has been overcome, the next output shouldn’t
have much the matter with it.
* * * *
Pref. shares in the Lancefield (W.A.) now stand
at a small premium on the strength of good developments
at the No. 4 level, and the possibility of ditto lower down.
But the mine still has to prove that it can earn money for
shareholders, in which respect it has unfortunately been
a lamentable failure to date.
* * * *
Golden Link (W.A.) is now hunting for gold at
600 ft. From above the No. 4to somewhere about the
No. 5 level a good run of ore has been opened up, but the
absence of the shoot in the southern crosscut at 600 ft.
has set the management thinking and the market slump-
ing. Now another crosscut is being driven in a diagonal
direction from the same point; and if this crosscut
doesn’t fare any better than the first one, matters will
begin to look serious for those who rushed the stock at 6s.
on information that the shares would see £l. Meanwhile
the Lake View is doing well out of the treatment of Link
ore, and, although some shareholders are trying to stop
this, they haven’t much hope of succeeding, as the Lake
View holds half the shares, and knows its power.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) put no less than £50,000 on to
its market valuation, the other day, on the news that the
co. had struck it rich at 200 ft. Then a cable giving the
value of the lode at 6dwt. for 6ft. was sent ’Ome, and
down came the price of shares with a thud. Even if
ounce ore had been exposed for double the width reported,
the rise would not, in view of the heavy capitalisation of
the co., have been justified ; but there is always a horde
of greedy fools in the market eager to run the risk of
financial injury, and in this case many of them got hurt.
* * * *
Without wishing to put the fly in anyone’s oint-
ment, it must be said that the plan of the Lord Nelson
North, St. Arnaud (Vic.), means nothing. The point is
whether the stone at the bottom level is payable. The
Lord Nelson report shows that its bottom level is low in
grade, despite any leaven from the upper portions of the
mine. So the question is not what stone the Lord Nelson
North has in the level on which it is working on the
boundary, but what is below. It is not going to be a
cheap job to prove that, unless the Lord Nelson falls into
the lap of the clever folk who own the North.
* * * »
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), out of its main reef got
£82,300 gold and £14,767 pyrites, and paid £40,500 in
divs. This on a capital of £7BOO spells good biz. The co.
cannot, however, expect such results from an in-and-
outer like McMillan’s reef, which it is now developing'.
There is not likely to be any fluttering of shares in the
old way, now that divs. are to do the talking.
* • * *
Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), has got down to four
divs. in the half-year ; likewise it has got down to 1715 ft.
with its shaft. So far ore breaking is not done deeper
than the No. 14 level. There the shoot of ore is 460 ft. long.
The biggest body of quartz left Overhead is at 1200 ft.
The lode all through runs very evenly, averaging about
4ft. ; but gold averages are getting less with depth, being
now only a shade over 6Jdwt. per ton. Still the mine is
wonderfully cheaply handled, costs only running out at
14s. 6d. a ton. The co. has been a success from the jump,
and has paid £121,000 in divs., or £3 7s. 6d. per share.
Even as matters went last year, 30 per cent, of the total
expenditure was in the form of dividends.
Here is Cassilis, Gippsland, to recall that it has
to justify the possession of the biggest private electro-
hydraulic plant in the Commonwealth. Three months
run under the new conditions show that £4300 profits
have been earned. Taking liabilities at £4250, another
three months will see the co. out of debt, and in posses-
sion of a scheme that with capital should make
Cassilis the controlling influence in a big, unde-
veloped mining district. The men responsible for
this are, first, E. T. Coote, general manager;
next, H. J. Dickson, secretary, who helped the scheme
by' placing the block of new shares. Cassilis now has
about the top gold output in Victoria, but small ore
reserves disclose weakness. The 13,780 tons in sight, even
though averaging an ounce, don’t make a mine. With
all the stuff sunk in the power scheme, there cannot be
any r lady’s play' about the claim. Divs. have to give way
for a while to the accumulation of reserves. Without
more ore developed, shares will never have a stable
value; and investors know that better, apparently, than
Chairman Sadler or Secretary Dickson.
* * * *
An attempt is being made at Stawell (Vic.) to
cyanide the felspathic dyke formations which are a feature
of the district, and two plants are being erected, one on
the Big Hill at the back of the town and one at the Wonga,
about two miles away. The gold is exceedingly fine, and
in the case of the Big Hill appears to be confined to the
soft pipeclay surrounding the quartz veins, which are
practically barren, while at the Wonga the gold is distri-
buted through both the soft stuff and the quartz.
At the latter place crushing is necessary to obtain
anything approaching a total extraction, but the idea
is to begin with cyaniding alone, and erect a battery
later if the results warrant it. Thousands of tons were
crushed from both places in the early days ; but recent
cyaniding tests of the tailings show that probably 50 per
cent, of the gold was lost over the plates. Anything
under 2dwt. was useless to the parties that worked these
shows, as crushing alone cost about 4s. a ton, and carting
and mining expenses had to come out of the other dwt., for
which reason thousands of tons of easily-obtainable ore
were left in sight. It is hoped by means of the cyanide
process to make this 4dwt. stone show a good profit.
There is still a large amount of gold in the shallow work-
ings around Stawell; the problem is to treat it on a pay-
able basis. Some years ago a co. lost thousands in a
plucky attempt to handle the Wonga dyke by roll-crush-
ing and cyaniding ; but the plant, in spite of lavish ex-
penditure, was unsuitable, and the impossibility of leach-
ing slimy ore in deep vats, together with the prohibitive
cost of roasting the material that was rooted out—good
and bad, at random—made the venture a hideous failure.
* * * *
This is the sort of “treacle” used by Manager
Batten to sweeten up a nasty piece of news in
of the Victoria, Zeehan (Tas.)“ Though so far nothing
payable has been met with on the main lode, there is no
cause for discouragement. The famous Spray lode, when
cut in the adit level, was valueless, but on being developed
magnificent results were obtained.” That is, magnificent
for Zeehan. Examined into, it is seen that driving at
300 ft. has resulted in the Victoria getting a formation
composed of quartz, pug, decomposed slate, and car-
bonate of iron. This carries a little galena, but its best
is 8 per cent. lead. While a “pay shoot” may exist
farther north, the prospect of getting it looks about as
uncertain to-day as the chance of picking the next
Melbourne Cup winner.
* * ♦ *
Brilliant Deeps crushed 98 tons for an average
of £9 15s. 6d. per ton, which is the best stone got below
2000 ft. on Charters Towers. The reef is being driven on
to the north-west, and prospects seem pretty good over
a limited length. The proximity of this new reef to the
Brilliant Blocks’ boundarj is adding a speculative value
to that co.’s lease. Blocks are about to reconstruct and
issue 50,000 new shares. The shaft will soon be down
deep enough for the Day Dawn formation, if it
lives that far. Bonnie Dundee is making good
profits out of the stone sent to the mill, and
another div. is not improbable. No. 2 East has been
driven 420 ft., and, although prospects are none too sweet
in the face, a good length of payable stone has been
proved. The rise above the level carries a strong reef,
and it is probably this and the prospect of a div. that
have revived the market. A poor crushing of 320 tons of
stone valued at £BOO following up so many good mine
reports doesn’t inspire much confidence. The last report
mentions a slight improvement in the deepest level, but
the tendency is for the country to get harder and the
stone poorer at depth.
* * * *
For the last three months Chillagoe (Queens-
land) treated 20,689 tons of ore for 714 tons of copper,
1971 tons of lead, and 248,8790 z. silver. Despite low
prices, there has been an increased production of metals.
Since silver contents fell off at Broken Hill, Chillagoe
shows up better among the important producers of the
white metal in Australia, with an output of about a
million ounces per annum. But nobody can say how
long it will stick at that. Valuing copper at £55, lead at
£l3, and silver at 25., the ore treated at Chillagoe easily
tops £4 per ton, with something to spare. Chillagoe,
with a production of over 200 tons copper and 600 tons
lead per month, and latterly a few ounces of gold, should
be a good customer to Australian metal-refining- works ;
in fact, the shipment of metals to local refineries from
Mount Perry and Chillagoe should be encouraged, and
their export unrefined should be hit hard. The Ether-
idge railway is now into Einasleigh station ; it is about 35
miles from the recently-discovered Daintree mine, where
surface prospects indicate a big producer. The Einas-
leigh mine itself, although it was discovered 40 years
since, is still, for all practical purposes, in the early stages
of development. Most of the ore is very silicious, and
will probably be sent to Chillagoe. A short length of
tramline will be required to connect up the mine.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, crushed 307
tons during last half-year for £2557. No. 6 level, which is
close to the boundary of the N. B. Freehold, produced
most of the metal. ’ The report offers no explanation why
No. 6 was driven only 100 ft. for a big profit, while No. 5,
which followed a poor and patchy formation, was driven
300 ft. There was a question whether the two levels had
followed the same vein of stone, but the rise from
No. 6 has now broken through to No. 5 and set
all doubts at rest. New B. Freehold, although
it has had better luck than the Mexican, is
just as erratic, showing rapid changes from riches to
poverty. At the 794 ft. mark No. 7 had only Ift. of forma-
tion, with a vein or two of quartz intermixed. The
market is being held up by the prospect of the crosscut
connecting No. 7 with the shaft, which will facilitate
mining operations on a more extensive scale. The lOin.
reef intersected in the shaft carries gold and coarse
mineral, so there Seems to be a chance of developments
on the eastern side of the lease, apart altogether from
the main Day Dawn reef.
* * * *
Great Eitzroy (Queensland), a steadily-improv-
ing proposition, is increasing its smelting equipment.
For a concern so heavily capitalised, things are still not
brilliant; but they are on the mend. The last monthly
yield was 82 tons of copper, 400 oz. gold, and 34150 z.
silver from 2988 tons. The average extraction of metals
is between 40s. and 50s. Mining and smelting costs are
325., so a profit should be shown, even though the 325.
doesn’t include development costs, which would be a
heavy charge on such a small tonnage.
The law action in which the Hirches and the
O.K. Co. are tearing at one another’s purses over the
metal-buying contracts, is proceeding in Brisbane this
week.
.J* * »
Dulbelling : It can do it at the price because
the money is paid only in case you die from certain speci-
fied causes O. T., Rookwood: Don’t know it ; but it’s
in a thoroughly played-out district.. . .Y.K.K.: Sorry,
but can’t undertake that kind of business... Dormant:
Patchy ; but a very fair long shot Carter L. :No ; its
investments are doubtful....F.T.L. : Of that coal bunch,
East Greta... .Constant R.: This paper isn’t in the share-
tipping business.
* * » *
Transvaal gold output for December put up the
record performance of 660,6430 z. ; and for the year the
total was 7,052,6170 z., an increase of 599,7050 z. on the
1907 figures.


70/-
Sac Suits
for
50/-
This offer is for a limited period
only —it is an opportunity which
YOU cannot afford to ignore.
“ TAILORED BY TAILORS ”
throughout in best style from finest
AUSTRALIAN and BRITISH
fabrics.
WRITE NOW for Patterns and
Easy Self-Measurement Forms,
sent everywhere, Post Free.
Lincoln, Stuart&Co.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
The Pills Laxo-Tonic have none
To outrival them under the sun.
A permanent cure
They’ll effect, this is sure ;
It begins when you’ve taken but one.
LAXO-TONIC) PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Bights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction pruaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
Mr. William Wallace, Tarrawarra, Roto,
via Hillston, N.9.W., .writes:—“l make it a
point to always keep Chamberlain’s Cough
Kemedy m the house, having never known it to
tail when given for coughs or colds.”*
EDUCATION BY POST. 1 .",'
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Slechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address—Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
An irate individual recently complained to
the Postal Department that a letter addressed to
Sandy Creek had not been delivered, and de-
manded to know what the Department thought
of itself. Before it made up its mind on that
point the Department proceeded to inquire
where Sandy Creek was, and discovered that
Sandy Creek was in no less than 37 different
places. So when a letter is dropped in addressed to
“ J. Smith, Sandy Creek,” the harassed P.O. man
has to chase all over Australia ; and then the
Smith finally curses the Post Office because his
letter has been thumbmarked and read by all the
other Smiths, and complains bitterly that it
wasn’t like that before Federation.
ILLUSTRATED
ADVERTISEMENT.
Motor.car for sale. Running beautifully. Owner no
further use.
‘Jimmie Pannikin”: There are many
phases and manifestations of mulga madness;
but only three distinct stages—(l) wearing corks
on the rim of the hat; (2) carving quondongs ;
(3) carrying puppies in the billy. When one
reaches the third stage, he is indeed mulga-
bound. It would be both interesting and instruc-
tive, as the lecturers say, to know what stages the
chief Aboriginaliars have reached. Then these
bright but eccentric contributors could be classi-
fied (a la the latest Red Page style), and have
their peculiar pen-names labelled “M.M.I, ”
“ M.M.2,” “ M.M.3,” as the case might be. P.S.
—Don’t count me in. I was rescued from Out-
back Exile just in time.
A Wellington (M.L.) suburban council
struck a tough financial problem the other day.
J it up,” said the Mayor, magnificently.
It s an enema.”
* * » *
“ Bungarra ” writes :
Zoologist Le Soeuf told the Nepean (Vic.) summer
school students a fish yarn of amazing magnitude t’other
day. It concerned a worm that drags its weary length (of
3ft. 6in. or thereabouts) along the shores of the Gippsland
Lakes. The fish prevaricator has merely to thread his
line through the lengthy reptile, and when a fish snaps
the bait the obliging worm (what there is left of it)
wriggles down and covers the hook again ; so the angling
Ananias can go on fishing without rebaiting his hook until
lus whisky gives out. Le Soeuf vouches for that worm
on his word as an ancient fish liar. The right hand of
fellowship is hereby extended to brother Le Soeuf.
And The Bulletin hereby corroborates Le Soeuf
and repudiates the base suspicions of “ Bungarra.”
Certain members of the staff have seen that worm.
One specimen, found dead on the road from Bright
to Omeo, had been run over by a cart, and it was
so long that both wheels of the cart had passed
over the horror. Said horror was even longer than
described above, and seemed about the thickness
of a starved sausage.
* * * *
“ Montalex ” : “ Dandalup’s ” confiding
seagull (B. 11/2/’O9) reminds me of a very big
fight over a very small bird. Scene : A road-
makers’ camp, the “festive board” of which,
being in the open air, was much patronised by the
tiny fowl known as the “ silver-eye.” These birds,
finding themselves unmolested, became so tame
that they would hop unconcernedly about the
tucker board, picking up crumbs, perching on the
rims of pannikins, and generally taking advantage
of an unwritten law that no man might do them
evil without disaster to himself. But, one dinner-
time, Big Hans, having for some reason been
threatened with personal violence by small but
pugnacious Bed Rafferty, made scornful reply :
“ Himmel! Yotyoudalkin’? Ivould zmazhyouoop
shoostas easy as dis tain leedle pirt! ” and, with the
word, he brought his huge palm hard down on a
silver-eye and crushed it dead on the board. Arose
a general howl of execration, amidst which the
man opposite, a long, lanky Gippslander, jumped
to his feet and landed the Teuton a straight-un in
the eye that toppled him over the seat backwards.
With a bellow' of wrath, Big Hans was up in an
instant, and rushed round to immolate the fob,
who dexterously backed away into the open,
measured Hans as he came on, and landed
like an arrow on the other eye. Thereafter his-
tory did the usual monotonous thing. The German
would rush, showering Titanic round-arm sweeps
upon the atmosphere; and, the moment he slacked,
in would come the Gumsucker’s left, straight as a
bar, to one eye or the other. Gippsey hardly
seemed to know that he had a right hand on him,
but his fatal left filled the bill, for in about 15
minutes Hans was too blind to locate the enemy,
though he still pranced wildly around, streaming
with blood, and spluttering out fearsome
Deutscher anathemas, until at last he subsided in
a heap upon the ground, and wept the weep of
baffled ferocity.
‘ Edyson ” : The desire to meet the coach
becomes a sort of mania with the residents
of Australian bush districts, and when the
coach ceases running and the locomotive
arrives, the quaint passion long continues,
and large, hairy, deliberate men drift slowly
in from the surrounding mysteries to gaze at
the train coming in and going out again.
The worst victim I ever knew was old
Simon Myley, at Pea Greek. Simon was on
hand regularly for seven years to see the
coach pull up at M‘lvor's pub, although he
had to ride nine miles to do it, astride a
saddleless horse with a ridgepole like a
picket fence, and a gait like two pigs in a
bag. The railway has now reached Pea
Creek—dignified these days with the name
of a British peer—but Simon Myley
still rides in twice a week to see the
train, although it arrives at
Pea Creek with a stupid
iteration that would madden
you. Somebody asked Myley
why he did it. He looked
surprised. “By gosh!” he
said, “I saw a feller rolled
over be the coach here once.”
Orion : Talk about fiends ! Of all that
were ever produced there is not one that rivals
the threshing machine for absorbing the time,
sweat and blasphemy of dust-begrimed men. It
takes from 17 to 20 men to satisfy her appetite,
and to persuade her internal organs to perform
their several functions in a satisfactory manner.
And, shades of Tom Mann, how those 17-20 work !
From 4T5 a.m. to anything up to 9 p.m. on moon-
light nights, with two quarter-hours for lunch and
one hour for dinner—lsJ working hours! And
the wage is 7d. an hour. All time lost in moving
from farm to farm and in setting up the machine
is stopped. No one ever knows when to expect
her (none of us believe she’s a mere neuter).
I’ve seen farmers uncover their stacks, trustfully
believing she would turn up to time, and get
them wet in the rain that fell three days
after. I timed one across a level plain
in the Riverina the other day—|-mile in f-hour.
I timed another—she didn’t stir in 14 hours. One
of the front wheels was bogged, and the driver
used language, levers and steam, all with the same
results. Sevenpence an hour ! And it is for this
that we are awakened by a nerve-racking whistle
before the Cochin China even thinks about chal-
lenging the game rooster to a fight that he thinks
better of presently. It is for this we consume the
farmer’s ancient female sheep and his poddy calf,
along with the wonderful contraptions in the way
of uncooked puddings, pumpkin pies, and railway
cakes that Mrs. Cocky provides in her truly heroic
efforts to satisfy the appetites of 20 hungry men
and a large family, with often little more than a
camp-oven, a kerosene-tin and a smoky fireplace
to do it with. And there are other things not
worth mentioning—the chaff down one’s back all
day ; the limited bathing facilities at night; and
the chance of having your head knocked off when
the fiend eats something, such as a piece of wire
or old iron, which disagrees with her innards,
whereupon she hurls fragments of herself in every
direction to show her indignation. She’s a fiend
all right, and I’m leaving to-morrow.
PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE.
INDIGNANT TALE-TELLER (to brother tradesman who has done a little business with departing
Samaritan): Wot am I roustin' about ? Don't I tell yer Vs been a client o' mine
fer ther larst ten year! ”
“ Reval ” : The Outback mining field is a
cosmopolitan sort of place. Once worked in a claim
on the rim of W.A., the owner of which was a
Pole, the underground manager a Yorkshireman,
the surface boss a German, the storekeeper a
Russian, and the keeper of the hash-turret a Swiss,
who employed a French chef. Most of the
truckers were Italians. In the cyanide vats there
were some Irishmen. There was a cheering
dearth of Japs and Chows, but the name of the
mine was “ The Mikado.”
“Moorabinda” : The mountain sheep of
Maoriland are reared chiefly for their wool; those
of the plains chiefly for their meat. The wild
mountain sheep are as shy as deer; they all feed
up wind, to scent danger. They are more easily
mustered than Australian sheep, as they are more
afraid of dogs. They have some enemies. The
worst is the “kea, ” or mountain parrot, a large
bird belonging to the genus Nestor. He is brown,
shot with green, with a lovely pink under the
wings. There is no doubt that this parrot was
formerly a vegetarian like all his
species, or fed only on small in-
sects ; but he now has a dreadful
habit of settling on the backs of
sheep and tearing at their skin
with his great hooked beak, while
the poor animal makes frantic but
vain efforts to dislodge him. The
kea picks the fat which surrounds
the kidneys, and the sheep is thus
very quickly killed. Various
theories have been advanced to
explain how these parrots became
carnivorous. One eminent doctor
maintained that they were formerly
in the habit of picking the insects
out of what are termed in Maori -
land “ vegetable sheep ” —a species
of moss which grows in great tufts
or tussocks, and looks rather like
undyed astrachan wool. According
to this theory, when the kea saw
the sheep, which somewhat re-
sembled these tussocks, he settled
on their backs to pick out insects
and was agreeably surprised to find
delicious fat instead. Unfortun-
ately for this view, however, it
has been found that the “ vegetable
sheep” harbor no insects. An-
other opinion, one supported by
most of the shepherds, is that a
kea first settled by chance on a
sheep hung up in the usual way
after being killed, and, discover-
ing how very savory was the fat,
induced his companions to try a
peck. Soon the keas would watch
for a sheep to be killed, and then
at once fly to the wooden gallows
to which the carcase hung. From
watching the butcher to becoming a
personal butcher is not a very long
step for so intelligent a bird as the
parrot, and fat is so attractive to all animals
bred at great heights, and in cold climes, that this
theory, though apparently wild, is not quite im-
probable. ;
* * * *
“Oicfc”; About the most variegated item
of utility in the bush is the mail-box. Next in
popularity to the waterproof kerosene tin, with its
flap on the outer end, comes a canvas-covered box,
nu times constructed specially for the purpose, but
generally any old case that’ll tolerate tacking’ to a
tree. Others on the list include tins of all shapes
and sizes, earthenware flowerpots with a stringy-
bark roof, leather school-bags, cracked but still
rain-proof preserving jars, holes in trees, bags of
’possum skin, and disused saucepans. Between
Tumut and Tumbarumba this summer I struck
several exceedingly rare specimens, including the
leg of a cast-off gum-boot, a wombat skin hollowed
out, a pair of left-off dungaree breeks, and an
ancient and grimy bell-topper, the last two bein°-
overshadowed by the eternal stringy-bark
“Jarrah”: I have been watching the
queer behavior of bush animals at the rabbit-proof
fence (W.A.). Emus, when startled by a horse-
man, run along the fence in front of him, making
futile attempts to get through, but never dream-
ing that they might easily get into the scrub on
the other side of the track. They run till they
drop from exhaustion. Parrots commit suicide
by hundreds at the fence. Some butt against the
wires and fall stunned. Others, striking the
fence between the wire from which the netting
depends and the top wire itself, force the two
wires apart. Then the wires spring back, leaving
long rows of birds executed. Snakes take the
bun. One of him approaches the fence, selects a
hole and wriggles about half-way through. Un-
less fasting, he generally sticks there. After
several vain struggles he resolves to come back.
He pokes his head through another hole and
wriggles through until stuck again. This con-
tinues until the reptile is thoroughly tied up 4n
the netting; and he stops there until he dies from
starvation.
“ Larrakeyah ” : T’other day a lubra
strolled up to my place, followed by the sort of
dog you meet when you come home from the club
at 3 a.m. I studied it for a minute or two, then
turned to the lubra. “What name this?” I
asked, pointing. “Him dog, boss; him good-
feller dog.” “Oh! My think so him little bit
cattle-dog, little bit pug, little bit dingo, little
bit” She grabbed up the dilapidation and
started off down the road. “No more,” came
faintly on the breeze, “him no more that. Him
properly dog.”
MORNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hark, I hear a sound of singing—it’s the butcher, earlv
rising. J
At the crimson dawn he's bringing me a pound of summer
chops!
Ah, he melodises queerly as the kitchen door he’s
banging;
You can hear the top notes clearly as the morning quiet’s
clanging
With his simple, wondrous singing—l shall slumber when
he stops!
Yet I bear the uproar blindly as the vocal brickbats lob,
kor he means his music kindly and his heart is in his job !
Do you hear a sound of singing? It’s our land “ Awake !
Arise! "dug.;
All our sturdy souls are bringing strident voices to the
song!
And our tune may be ungainly, but we’re proud and get-
ting prouder ;
Though we try for top notes vainly and our voices could
be louder,
Bude or lovely, cracked or ringing, still thev swing the
words along !
Yes, our singing may be awful and our voices full of dust,
But the sentiments are lawful, and we’ll sing ’em though
we bust! ° 8
Is our singing - crude and curious? Hear the noise of
voices rising?
Though the song be fast and furious, yet the words of it
are good.
Hear us roar a ready chorus—hear the sudden, splendid
crashing
As the sound-waves roll before us like a million windows
smashing !
Yes, our song goes fast and furious, as a good Aus-
tralian’s should ;
And the Tory, cursing, gazes with a glare of angry hate.
Vhough our tune be all to blazes—you will cheer Aus
tralia, mate !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET , SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. ...
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
MR. T. C. ALLEN, Registered Patent Attorney and
Consulting Mechanical Engineer, begs to notify his
many clients and friends that he has dissolved partner-
ship with Mr. Arthur Griffith (late Griffith and Allen) and
will continue to practise in his own name at Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Buildings, corner of King and
Pitt Streets, Sydney.
NO WATCH
MADE
is stronger or more accurate than the
Fx. * R. LEVERS.
They are f-Plate Levers.
They have Brequet Hair Springs.
They have compensated and adjusted
Balances.
They have jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are specially made to stand hard
riding and knocking about, and go
with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and
kept in order for two years (breakages
excepted) without charge.
They are made in every style of case.
WRITE FOR CATALOCUE.
O (u
or 2
<3b o
T
Gent.’s Open-face, Oxidised Steel Case.
With 15 Jewels, 33/- With 7 Jewels, 28/-
p,ain ca F sh gures ] FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery 23 HUNTER
House in Sydney, STREET.
The Moree (N.S.W.) Pastures Protection
Board lately discovered a small hole, and crawled
through it. The district was being overrun with
Bathurst burr, so to protect the pastures the
Board voted a sum of money to cut the burr out
of the travelling stock routes, where it was spread-
ing rapidly. The Government, however, broke
the news to the P. P. Board that it couldn’t
legally spend its revenue in destroying noxious
weeds. The Board then wanted to know what
was the good of its high-sounding name and its
revenues if it couldn’t protect the pastures. The
Government supplied no information on this
point, so file Board consulted a lawyer. He dis-
covered that the only chance the Plank had,
came about if the burr was “a breeding ground
for rabbits.” The inspector was hurriedly
despatched to discover rabbits, and returned with
the information that he distinctly saw at least one
family of bunnies dwelling under a clump of burr.
The delighted Board immediately informed the
Department that bunny was breeding underneath
the Bathurst burr; and the alarmed Board
hurriedly ordered the removal of every burr in
the vicinity. TJp to the present, the Department
seems to be beaten, and maybe said to be batting
on a wet wicket.
THE WIFE.
FIRST INEBRIATE: “ What about anu[?]er drink?”
SECOND DITTO (consulting watch): “Yes, but
how’s the enemy?”
FIRST DITTO : “ Oh, she’s all right (hie) — she’s
in the Mountains.”
“Brad” : Re originality in pub nomen-
clature, let me thrust forward “The Stinking
Goat,” at Burramine South (Vic.). True, “The
Goat ” has been re-baptised, and is now known as
“ The Farmers’ Arms.” But the old style clings.
If you doubt me, ask a native to drink with you
at “ The Stinking Goat,” and note how unswerv-
ingly he will lead you in the right direction.
“ B’ jingo, phwat a divil av a mess-up it would be if the thrain missed its hole!”
The sad experiences of a new-arrival in
W. A. :
Saw a small woman trying to flog a big boy. Big boy
was getting the best of small woman (his mother). J ust
then a big man (the boy’s stepfather) appeared, and took
the big boy in hand. The little woman then turned on
the big man (her second husband). The big man then
turned on the little woman. At that point I started ter
deal out a hand to the big man, the little woman’s hus-
band and the big boy’s stepfather. Then the little woman
and the big boy turned on me. When I got away I had
very few clothes, no skin worth mentioning, and one
tooth less than previously. I have made up my mind to
go back to Bentland, where there are few big boys and
not enough small women and big men to hurt a chap.
■* * * *
“Montalex”: Been interviewing Troglo-
dytes Niger, Esq., otherwise the chimpanzee
recently “stocked” by Sydney Zoo. The chim-
panzee is the most human of all the apes, and it
doesn’t seem right that he should be more nearly
related to the desperately-savage gorilla (Troglo-
dytes gorilla) than to the dull and solemn mias,
better known as the orang-outang (Malay for “wild
man ”). The latter gent, is grave and reverend of
aspect. The chimpanzee, on the other hand, is
full of good humor and playfulness, and
bears, at times, an absurd resemblance to a
gigantic, good-tempered human baby. He
is the shortest-armed of the three great
anthropoids. The mias’ flippers reach to his
ankles, and the gorilla’s to mid-leg; whereas
“ chim.” can only get as far as his knees—and a
pretty good reach, too ! Also he can smile, which
the mias can’t—or won’t; while the gorilla wears
permanently a ferocious frown. “ Chim,” has no
vestige of a tail; but the fellow at the Zoo has a
companion, or a satellite, or a protdgd, or some-
thing, in the shape Of a small ape, who rejoices in
the possession of about 2in. of caudal appendage.
This seems to be a never-failing source of wonder
to “ chim.,” who fingers it reverentially from time
to time, and glances from it inquiringly to the
owner’s face, as if he’d like to ask the other chap
how he lost the rest of it, but is afraid of hurting
his feelings.
« * * «
“ 0.,” his lie or narrative :
My mate and me were in Lithgow (N.S.W.) lately.
There was bustle and excitement in the bar of our hotel.
They were shifting two little tables and some seats into
an adjacent room, and fossicking out and cleaning- all
the glasses and pewters in the place. They said they
were clearing the decks for action. Then we heard a
sound as of an army rushing on an enemy. We asked
for an explanation, but all the reply we got was “ Pay.”
The people behind the bar—the boss, mum, three
daughters, four sons, two housemaids, the groom, and
the cook—were too busy to say more. Each grasped a
glass and began to work a beer-pump. The army entered,
the members jostling one another, and the strongest and
smartest got the beer first. It took my mate and me
more than an hour to edge our way through the crowd
to the street, and we got there only after a couple
of scraps. We found out afterwards it was pay-day. All
the pubs were in the same state, and for a considerable
time we were involuntary teetotalers.
A character called Mac lives a few miles from Lithgow.
He came into town one day and left his horse and dog
outside the grocer’s, and told them to stay there till he
came back. The horse whinnied and the dog barked,
and Mac said “ All right," and walked away. A friend in-
formed us that the horse and dog were telling Mac not to
take too much.
Two hours passed and Mac didn’t return. The horse
and dog went sadly to the nearest pub. The horse re-
mained outside, and the dog went into the bar ; but soon
came out with his tail down. Two other pubs were
visited with the same result. But after inspecting the
fourth pub, the dog came out barking and wagging his
tail, and jumped up and gammoned to kiss the horse.
Then the horse whinnied, and a man in the bar said,
“ Mac, your horse is calling you.” Mac hastened to the
door and said, “ Very well, boys, I’ll be with you in a
minute.” He went back and finished his beer, then
came out and mounted the horse, and the three went
away perfectly happy. We were told that Mae was never
known to disobey his horse’s call.
On our way home to Sydney we stayed a few days at
Blackheath, but the place is too dead to talk about. Yet
I like to go to Blackheath. So does a Chinaman like to
go to a cemetery.
“Billy T.” : Did The Bulletin ever go
snake-fishing? Probably not, but I’ve known it
done. At Haunted Stream (Vic.) snakes were
very numerous, and the lone snake-fisherman
snaked there for about a month, with great
success. He wanted live reptiles, and his method
was that of the ordinary angler. He had a rod
and line, and baited a tiny hook with small frogs,
beetles, lizards, and one particular kind of large
grey fly. He seemed to have an instinct for snake
localities, and would switch his bait over a log
and twitch it now and again, waiting for a bite.
The snake was usually hooked through the nose,
and easily survived his misfortune. The lone
fisherman that season took about three gross of
poisonous reptiles from Haunted Stream.
* * * *
Paspalum seed gathering is one of N.S.W.’s
new industries. It serves to give the North Coast
deadbeat a lift when he needs it most. The crop
reaches maturity in midsummer, and lasts several
weeks. The operator, who carries a large dish,
reaches out, gathers in as many heads as possible,
and shakes the seed into his bin. As much as £3
per day has been earned by the farmers on their
own land, while contractors have paid the ovvner
his whack and then made up to £2. Butta Singh
and Ram Jam Tin have of course fallen into the
game ; they make about £1 per day in the flush of
the season. The average cocky prefers the alien
in this capacity for some obscure reason —possibly
because of the latter’s magnificent capacity for
enduring verbal stoush.
•* * * *
“ Tas.” : I spent Christmas down the
N.S.W. South Coast, which should really be
called the South Cowst, for everything there is
Cow. The topic of daily conversation is Cow.
The intrinsic value of a man is summed up by the
number of cows he possesses. The standard of
exchange is Cow. The utility of children is esti-
mated according to the age at which they are able
to pull the teat of the god Cow. At the place
where I was staying there was a fine boy of about 13
years who told me that he was in the cadets. I was
complimenting him, when his parents sneeringly
remarked: ‘‘Pooh! What’s ther good of that when
it takes him five minutes to milk a cow ! ” My host
took me for a drive, and I was commending him
for his choice of horseflesh, when he growled out:
“ I wouldn’t keep a blamed moke at all if I could
help it. Why, I could git four cows for wot this
cove cost me.” Even the harmless house cat led
to the all-absorbing subject. 1 remarked on the
size of a pet, when I was cut short with, “Yes,
he's a beauty, ain’t he. I only wish me cows’d
keep ’emselves in sich condition and cost no
more.” Then I drifted back in memory to my
schoolboy days, when I used to read : “ The cow
is a useful beast. It gives us milk to drink and
food to eat and clothes so wear. ...” The book
might have added, “. . . and an eternal fund of
conversation ! ”
EVENING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The tom-cat on the wash-house roof
Hath scarce begun his lay ;
The west still glimmers with the woof
That decked the skirts of day.
Against the lemon-colored sky
Grow dark and dim the trees,
And father's Sunday shirt, on high,
Flaps gently in the breeze.
How sweet the interval from care
When toil is laid aside ;
When rises on the ev’ning air
The smell of onions—fried !
Now silence, with the shades of night,
Like velvet curtain falls ;
The magic of the fading light
The watching soul enthralls.
The merry sounds of those that sup
Break on this solemn pause —
The clatter of the emptied cup,
The creak of busy jaws,
The tinkle of the knife and fork,
The swish of poured-out tea,
The mumbled bits of half-chewed talk,
All in one harmony.
Sweet night unbinds her raven locks,
As from some street hard by
The vendor of fresh “ Sydney rocks”
Sends forth his raucous cry.
Sweet night—stajq savage reader, stay !
I merely would remark
That when the Night supplants the Day
It’s nearly always dark.
VICTORIA.
KABAN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excevt of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Minto : The wicker lion got on “ The Trail of
the Wowser ” with fatal results. .. D.C. : It is not a joke,
it is a dialogue Woods : Try a paper for children—very
small children.. The Sawdust King: Mere jingle, end-
ing in a somewhat crude jest... .D.J.J. : A violent left
jolt landed your Burns-Johnson poem in the basket. So
shall it be with all other poems on that gone
and dead subject... Jareel: An ancient British joke
highly esteemed in the days of the late Hengist...
Ponto : Boiled down, you showed Slavin a copy of The
Bulletin once and he was glad. Not much in that, is
there? M. : Get work....J.R.F. : Your forecast of
doom is too long and illiterate. Kings II., 15th chap.,
verse 16, expresses, with a little editing, in six lines what
takes you close on eight pages... .S.G.B.: Nicely written,
but right out of Tub Bulletin's line Ellen D. :
“Bustle and Sheath” had to be looked at twice before
the verdict finally went against it... .The Wasp : We like
you best in dramatic mood. Thus :
Robert Y.: Not well enough put together.. ..Gloria D.:
Plenty of life in it, but you have hardly the necessary
skill Dan W.: There’s not a spark of human nature in
your characters H. P. H.: We couldn’t dig any meaning
out of it, and all of the Government’s diamond-drill
boring plants are engaged just now... .O.B.X.: Very flat
and wooden style Roland Scrub: No point or
vigor in it... .Style : Some of it is funny and some
of° it wearisome.. Durex: Didn’t have half a
chance S S T. : Jeremiah was an optimist com-
pared "with you Fuzzy: We don’t remember
ft Was it signed? Romatah: Well enough writ-
ten but you haven’t studied the subject sufficiently
’r • Didn’t impress us. . Blair H. : Sorry they don’t
suit “ Remove ” would be a good story if it were more
compact. ...Leslie Gordon : Doesn’t quite “ make good.”
Pvramus • Argument has been refuted over and over
a wain.... S.S.T. : Yes. Nearly all the big American rail-
road cos. have a pension system... Winnie B. : You
versify beautifully, but you don’t say anything.. Robert
0 * Too tamely told. . ..L. Everard: Pretty, but too
vague and elusive... Pacific R. : Needed more vigorous
and dramatic treatment... .S. J.C. : Hardly worth print.
Exlex* Simply puerile Siward: Quite devoid of
human interest.... O.B.W. : Fairly well written, but it
hasn’t any central idea to give it backbone.... Triad: Off
our beat entirely... .Maiala i Rather neat, but the idea is
hackneyed Viola : liV e suspect that it isn t original.
And if it were, it isn’t suitable... .Rose Carberry : Some
tellino- phrases. We have a rooted objection, however, to
poemsmre the narrow path and eternal wrath.. .. Monaro .
Pars unsuitable. We don’t supply private criticisms no
matter how many stamps are sent. Life isn’t long enough.
Toolooa: No good....J.P.L.: Sorry, but the scheme
doesn’t appeal to us. The energy required could be put
to better purpose. And, by the way, there are no niggers
on the Peel River Co.’s property... .J.T. : Will put some
M.P. on to it ; but all the things you allege should be
backed by affidavits.... A.Z. : Thanks ; but, though very
well put, it breaks no new ground Bozzer B.: The
horse-sense of it nearly carried it through.. ..Y.Z. :
“ Bee” smart enough, but off our beat... . Netherby . Un-
suitable Reg Bachelor: Please semi decipherable
address to accountant... . Arthur J. R. (Auckland). Glad if
you will send article referred to ...F.J.E.: No, poetry
isn’t your game. What you need to do is to knock it off
before it becomes a crime.... E.M.W. : Idea has been
worn to tatters....Zamiel: When did we print anything
that encouraged you to send a thing like that to us ?
Forte: Not quite as gloomy as a worm, yet scarcely as
cheerful as a beetle... W.H.K. : Thanks, would be in-
terested to see the book.... Warepa: Very ordinary
sample of the Law’s fatuity.
“L. O’Leary” : I deduce from “R.S.W.’s”
nomenclature par. (B. 14/l/’O9) that he has never
been in Masterton (M.L.). He says that he never
knew a butcher who hutched. Here we have two
Butchers who butch. Also we own a Smith who
smiths, and a Cole who coals. Tom Porter pro-
vides porter amongst other things at one of our
pubs (we run “dry ” on June 30), and at another
Fred Cooper has a lot to do with casks. Some
time ago we had one Putty Greaves, who adjusted
panes of glass with his Christian name; but he has
now gone the way of all putty.
“Flinderino ” : Struck a curious example,
recently, of the nautical person’s traditional han-
kering for a life on the rolling plain in the capa-
city of farmer. He was before the mast on a
Warrnambool spud boat, which spent every week-
end tied up in the Yarra. Also he owned a 40-
acre block of land near Dandenong, which he had
paid for out of his savings. Regularly at 6 o’clock
of a Saturday evening he would go ashore and set
a course for his farm. The selection was over 20
miles by road from Melbourne, yet he used to
walk the whole distance, and that after a hard
day’s graft aboard the ship. On Sunday, at
about 2 a.m., he would reach his property and
turn in till 8 o’clock. All Sunday was spent
felling scrub and digging post-holes. When
darkness hove in sight, the nautical farmer began
another long tramp back to his ship. Arriving
in a footsore and weary condition, he would
tumble into his bunk for a two-hours’ rest, and
then commence a day’s work stowing cargo in the
hold, or chipping ironwork. Any spare time he
had during the week was spent draughting plans
for the milking-yards, barns, horse-paddocks,
dams, and implement sheds that were to grace
his future home. For all I know, he is still
draughting.
THE CITY MORGUE BY NIGHT.
Upon slabs the pallid corpse lie—
Neath the glare of the flickering light,
A gruesome and sickening spectacle—
Is the City Morgue by Night;
The gaunt caretaker is a fearless man—
Thoroughly hardened to his occupation,
A man accustomed to a cheerful life —
Could never hold such a situation.
Droun’d and mutilated bodies lie,
Neath the glare of the gleaming light.
Grim horrors broods o’er the ghastly slabs.
In the City Morgue by Night.


i<> product
oj:
( Ar r s )
Tw
“bro»Ce»* ■fa’rfr wHfj P&f-h&'ve.n'^
1W) T\<d Two ck^Troyer^
CA^«S
& \ Cof>l>e.r' ) )j r,
*7of" ! io . ..
cjeh-y you^cl^ — 1»K«. Ido ;
Itye ! — Hi ( (L©Me w Ay . j
jJeaXin |sr©*r>iy?<4 M$ hot>o4y wo«M «t)'fe , -|'e* r e
'* "Rfe
tfc )»&»ty whicVi returned
d, of ti-re Ky movement
m-* I
Jl. 3 4.ii
ijjawp" n
TH6- Digger; — Hot'-j^ev-e
NcrT - *viy cJiild,
yonder JT*“ \\A\
The doord Tiis S ,ce f»J '-
1 vv &o''t~ / | 7M -H> e r nrfitlywn j
Vft ('"'•4* ' Wtiact - «
k. *HAy«» y««* done. jfye r
vW Re
W Ararat s.b<?<?ot> — W////,,
"' Wh&f" Sort" of- a. gre*+"}jW4l
VWJvaJ nc expect when he vn*Kc<
-Vviti of ajl r^||y,'„o
|?oitt+ ?'" J •*
Pe\i'hi s »v)in4
a v
Prese»vt*(he>o
-foe. vVov'Ks
Ip&jn Oi W to e<n«w»re
"|vj to I^e
| iheplect" of (%£s
' (Aje)
!»■ li Tjo|»e«<
* ScVetvfc. would eiv’e
€en nykad of- > "increui*n'tV "became
sins ittwWr <iX
IN VICTORIA.


I. Where are you going to, my pretty maid ? ”
“I’m going to live in the North,” she said.
u What is your fortune, my pretty maid t
“Australia’s my fortune, sir,” she said.
John and Mary, do be wary,
See that your garden grows I
Put in a lot of shells and shot
And soldiers to fight your foes I
Hey 1 dlddle-dlddle t there’s room In the middle I
The Chow Jumped into it soon;
The Little Boy laughed and worked at sport,
So he lost both his dish and his spoon.
Sally o’er the waters''with veSsefS - spick and span.
Aye, Sally I Aye, Sally I for the cute Jap-an!
He from the East is eyeing the West,
He will choose South for he loves her the best!
Little Ah Peep stole over the deep,
Our ships—he couldn’t find them!
So he shouldered his gun,
And ashore he did run,
With his long pigtail behind him I
Qeorgic-Porgle-Puddeny-Ple,
The man who owned the Dog so Dry,
Kissed the Chows, and made them stay ;
Then Georgie-Porgle ran away.
Humpty-Dumpty hadn’t a Wall, 'M ‘‘l (/[
Humpty-Dumpty had a great Fall;
All the King’s captains were out on the deep»
Humpty-Dumpty was sold very cheap.
Sing a song of trouble—not a warship by,
There’s five million people, who must quickly die!
Eastern gates are opened! Yellow’s on the wing!
Ready to give battle, while we dance and sing 1
The King is in his counting-house crying for more money,
We are in the parlor trying to be funny ;
England’s in the North Sea a-watching her foes ;
Down swoops the Yellow Bird and nips off our nose.
Little Yak tior Ner
Sits in his corner,
Cocking his almond eye ;
He points with his thumb
\ And says, “ That’s the plum
i I’ll eat it all up by-and-bye ! ”
There was an old woman who lived in Nipoo,
Sl.e had so many children she didn’t know what to do ;
“Here! take up your cannon and load them with lead.
And go to Australia and live there instead 1 ”
Ride a cock-horse the Monkey is cross
To see his Fair Lady the ocean across ;
Rings on her fingers to tempt all Iter foes;
Bad men are watching wherever she goes. aIJ>ENST ock
NURSERY RHYMES (AUSTRALIAN 1909 EDITION).
At the State school teachers’ summer school the desirability of having Australian rhymes as far as possible in the school papers was
discussed. It was agreed that the children should be subjected to patriotic influences from the very cradle.- Victorian Daily Paper.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Mr. Devine, of the Melbourne Builders’ Lime
and Cement Co., has had in use a Flite Tyre on the back
wheel of his cycle for over two (2) years. He has done 30
miles daily. The tyre is still good for probably another
two years, but has been presented to Barnet Glass Rubber
Co. by this gentleman to be shown to anyone desirous of
seeing it.*
IT DAZZLES THE WORLD.
No discovery in medicine has ever created one quarter
of the interest that has been caused by Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery for Goughs and Golds. It has brought
relief in the most hopeless cases, when all else has failed.
For sale everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Sickness causes a loss of both time and
money. You lose the time and have the expense
of medical attendance, entailing a double loss.
This can be avoided by using some reliable remedy
at the first stage of the sickness. The purchase
of a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy often proves a profitable in-
vestment, for, by its use at the first appearance,
any unusual looseness of the bowels, a severe
atttack of diarrhoea or dysentery may be averted,
that might otherwise compel a week’s cessation
from labor. Every household should have a
bottle at hand. It never fails and is pleasant to
take. Get it to-day. It may save a life.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
G. Reid is 64 years old to-day (Feb. 25).
This paper will soon have to begin to speak
respectfully about the old gentleman.
Premier Tom Price, of S. Aus., is so
seriously ill that some of his friends doubt whether
he will meet the Assembly when it comes together
next July.
Another Darley “goes home” to spend
his Australian pension. This is Cecil West,
brother of the Chief Justice, who entered the
service of the Works Department of N. S. Wales
as assistant-engineer in 18G7, and finally reached
the job of Chief Engineer at £llOO a year. He is
07, being 12 years younger than the ‘‘ Chief.”
Several of the Broken Hill Prop, officials
who were assaulted by the misled crowd at
Broken Hill on January 4 are still suffering from
their injuries. It is feared that Nicolle, the
engineering draughtsman, will never recover.
His skull was fractured, and in other ways he was
badly hurt.
W. S. Caswel'l, one of the Ma State’s
oldest surviving police magistrates, died a few
days back. His father was a very early settler,
and the youngster was a chum of Leichhardt, the
explorer, whom he accompanied on some of his
shorter journeys.
The S.A. Government is apparently in no
hurry to appoint a successor to Greeley Jenkins
as Agent-General. Perhaps Ministers are trying
to show that American gentleman how much of a
sinecure he had really bestowed on himself.
Someday it is expected Opposition-leader Dick
Butler will be sent to England, but nobody is
hurrying.
London suffragettes are honoring Miss
Stuart by placing her among the pioneers of their
faith. Miss Stuart barracked for “ Women’s
Rights” in various parts of England and Scotland
close on 40 years ago. Australasia has some
personal interest in the lady. One brother was
Church of England Bishop of a Maoriland diitrict
and is now a missioner in Africa ; while another,
Alexander Stuart, was Premier of N.S.W.
Alexander, a tame, prosaic, unimaginative Scot,
was rapturously proud of his brilliant sister. An-
other brother, James Stuart, was for a time
Professor in Cambridge University, and became
afterwards a member of the House of Commons.
Wade, having hung up the appointment of
a Chief Justice, finds now that an Acting-Judge
of the Supreme Court is necessary. Under the
circumstances—which wouldn’t have arisen if the
Wade Government had done the right thing—
what’s wrong with recalling Justice Walker to the
Bench to complete the service necessary to entitle
a Judge in good health to claim a pension ?
Gregory Walker had only served about 10 years
when he left the Bench, a sick man, on a pension
of £lB2O a year; and as he is still young, as
Judges go, and says he is quite well again, there
seems no earthly reason why his services shouldn’t
be again employed and the salary of another man
saved to the State.
“BRITAIN RULES THE WAVES.”
A striking instance of how the British sailor is being
ousted lias been brought under the notice of the Minister
for Customs. There is a British merchant ship in port at
Melbourne almost entirely manned by foreigners. Out
of a crew of 31, 28, including the captain and first mate,
do not speak English. They include nearly all the Euro-
pean nationalities. —Sydney D.T.
Australian Captain (to chief officer, who has
ineffectually been hailing a strange barque
in English): “Mister Bolsted, any other
language but that. Can’t you see she’s flying
the ‘Jack
In 3853 four men arrived in Australia
seeking fortunes on the Victorian goldfields.
They journeyed in company from California on
the barque Edward—Gr. B. Hamilton, Edward
D’Arcy Fitzgerald, Jesse Timmins, and David
Syme. Now only one of the four remains above
the sod, in the person of Fitzgerald, who lives at
Omeo (Vic.), aged 81. Svme has passed out, as
all know. Hamilton went last January at the
age of 83 ; and Timmins joined him a day or two
ago. The four were always credited with main-
taining a deep interest in one another, especially
Syme, who never forgot his old shipmates.
Indeed in one case, at any rate, Syme’s affec-
tionate attention s was alleged to have been a little
embarrassing.
When G.-G. Dudley visited Prince Alfred
College, Adelaide, on February 10, and the for-
malities had been got through, he went out to the
cricket field and joined the first eleven at prac-
tice. He made a humorous compact with captain
Ken Steele, who was bowling, that for every time
he was bowled out he would ask for a day’s holi-
day for the boys, and would deduct one for every
four he hit. When the practice was over, the
G.-G. owed the boys about ten days’ holiday, and
it is said that he tried to compromise with the
“ head ” for a week. But all that he could squeeze
out was one day.
The formation in Sydney of an auxiliary
society for the conversion of Jews to Christianity
recalls one former effort in the same direction.
When Saul Samuel, once P.M.G., and afterwards
Agent-General, resided on his up-country station,
and was looked on as a coming politician, his con-
version from Judaism was devoutly desired. On
the eve of a political crisis an ex-Minister of the
Crown, who hoped to be next Premier, therefore
went up and passed a day and night on the
station in order to explain spiritual things. Saul
afterwards denied his own conversion, but ad-
mitted the conversion of a substantial few pounds
of his money into an I O U, which he held for
many years after.
Tasmania’s Ancient Mariner and Premier,
Jacky Evans, almost had his name in the Police
Court news lately. With one or two friends he
had travelled down to a wayside place to enjoy a
Sunday afternoon’s quiet, and visited a local pub
—of course, to rest. While he was in the pub, one
or two harmless and unnecessary policemen
started compiling a directory of those present.
After obtaining quite a number of names for the
purposes apparently of a prosecution to test the
definition of “bona fide traveller,” the Force
seemed disposed to leave. But someone insisted
on its recording also the names of the gentle-
men in another room. And the Force was
proceeding to do sq willingly enough, when the
horrible discovery was made that it had run
against the Premier; whereupon, if there was any
idea of a test case, it was dropped with a thud
that could be heard plainly in Sydney.
“Common Law Side,” on the suspended
appointment of a Chief Justice in N.S.W. :
C. E. Pilcher, K.C., having left for foreign parts, his
admirers at the Bar have begun saying what they think
of Wade and his Government for their treatment of him
in regard to the Chief Justiceship. Pilcher has never
been popular with the Wade-ites. In the Legislative
Council he received their Anti-Gaming and Anti-Drink
Bills with the eye of scorn and the tongue of contumely.
He has always been the reverse of a docile party-man.
Withal, he was the most obvious candidate for
the Chief Justiceship. At long last, Darley an-
nounced his intention of retiring. In accordance with a
long-established precedent, the Government sounded the
man they were inclined to appoint. That man, says the
Bar, was Pilcher. He said he would accept. Then uprose
Darley and put his veto on the proposal. It is a way
Darley has always had. He did the same years ago when
the name of B. It. Wise was mentioned in connection with
the N.S.W. Chief Justiceship. His attitude has always
been that, if he didn’t'approve of his proposed successor,
he wouldn’t retire and make room for him. What earthly
right he has ever had to interfere in an affair of this sort
isn’t clear. Still less is his right apparent in the present
instance. He isn’t even going to live in this country ; and
he hasn’t left a stick or stone here to be affected by the
future conduct of N.S.W.’s law's. However, the Wade
Government, as other Governments have done, caved in
humbly. Wade, no doubt, foresees that in a year’s time
the public indignation against the idea of him as Chief
Justice may have cooled, for there is no anomaly that the
public won’t get used to in time ; and, doubtless, this
made him additionally willing to sacrifice Pilcher.
George Singer, head of the Singer Cycle
and Motor Co., who died the other day, was a
notable instance of how even a man of energy and
foresight may be blind to his greatest opportuni-
ties. Born in Sussex, 61 years ago, Singer went to
London as a youth, and having a turn for
mechanics, got a billet in the sewing-
machine department of the Manchester
Co., and went to Coventry. The bicycle
trade was coming along just then ;
Singer became a pioneer of it on his
own account, and for a few years his
profits were enormous. Eventually he
sold for £550,000 to a co., but retained
the management. The co. prospered ;
for when competition had cut deeply
into its cycle trade, it got in early with
the motor-car development. But what
Singer did was not so remarkable as
what he didn’t do. Nearly 20 years ago
he was offered the exclusive rights in
the free wheel. The new invention didn’t appeal
to him, and he refused it. When the pneumatic
tyre was first brought out he also refused to touch
that, and for a while went on making the same
old bikes, in the confident belief that the pneu-
matic would blow out. So in spite of the half-
million he got for his business, he was a somewhat
sad Singer of late years ; and probably the haunt-
ing thought that he ought to have been ever so
much richer rushed him to the silent tomb.
The Oldest Inhabitant discourses re old
booksellers :
Mr. E. W. Cole, of Sydney and Melbourne, claims to be
the oldest bookseller in Australia, having commenced the
business 41 years ago. But there are others. Mr. W. H.
Maddock, now superintending Dymock’s lending branch,
was manager for George Robertson in the fifties, when
Robertson had his establishment in Collins-street East,
Melbourne, opposite the Argus office. Mr. Maddock
came to Sydney in the early ’sixties to open a branch
establishment for Mr. Robertson, which eventually he
conducted on his own account. Then this scribe was
behind the counter of Edward Arnold, of 56 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, bookseller and stationer, in 1859-60,
the time when Henry Tolman Dwight was second-hand
bookselling at the top of Bourke-street East. At T. R.
Dwight’s death, in 1872, his stock numbered 35.000
volumes, and it took Edward Cohen and Co. a week to
auction them off. And even these don’t by any means ex-
haust the collection of old booksellers.
With fellow-Judges and ancient barristers
bowing before bim and at each side, and with silk
and cambric rustling in various boxes, Acting-
Chief Justice Simpson looked the other day to
have reached the top of his ambition. Yet it was
in N.S.W. politics he one time resolved to serve
his country. In those days be threw himself into
the race for a seat in the Legislative Assembly.
Elderly people remember him as an uncompro-
mising patriot—in fact, a fire-eater, at election
meetings. Had he won a seat he might, instead
of being the best-tailored man in Sydney, have
long ago been gaoled or hanged for treason. It
was Joe Eckford and a groggy horse that saved
him from those tragic possibilities. Joe, a mix-
ture of gasbag and farceur, was leading in the
canvass, and Simpson spurred on bis horse to catch
up before th e farceur could enrol all the votes in
the Gosford district; but the steed threw the
fiery advocate, breaking an arm and unhinging a
jaw. Thus Joe Eckford romped into the Legis-
lative Chamber, while Simpson lay bound in
splints, his career as an ambitious candidate for
Legislative Assembly honors closed for ever.
GAMEY.
TERSELY : “ Waiter, remove that bird. I am a
customer, not an inspector of nuisances.”
Peter Nicol Russell’s will came before the
N.S.W. Equity Court one day last week for
directions. The Herald, reminiscing, repeated
an old story that when threatened with a strike
at the big foundry on Darling Harbor, Peter told
the men that if they struck he would close the
doors and never re-open them. The men certainly
did strike, and the doors were closed, and never
re-opened. But, as a matter of fact, Peter
Nicol Russell was not in Australia at the time.
He always regretted the closing of the works, and
expressed that regret when endowing the engi-
neering school at Sydney University. It was
John Russell who was manager at the time, and
had the dispute with the men (1879). John
Russell gave them three weeks in which to re-
sume work ; as they did not do so, he turned the
key in the lock, and left for good.
Died, at Orange (N.S.W.) within the past
week, Bertram Lee, third son of James Lee, of
“ Larras Lake ” (“Larry’s Lake ”), Molong. He
was managing-director of Lee and Co., Ltd., and
grandson of the early William Lee who crossed
the Blue Mountains about the time that William
Cox made the road over the unfriendly hump.
“ Larras Lake ” was one of the squattages taken
up by Wm. Lee. The latter left a number of
stalwart sons, all wool-growers and stock-breeders
except®Edward, who took to the law. The Barb,
winner of many big races, and unconquered, was
bred by the Lee family. Old William Lee repre-
sented Bathurst in one of the early Parliaments,
beating W. H. Suttor, sen., by one vote or there-
abouts.
“ L.H.” on the man who is looking for the
capital:—
Grant Hervey (8.,11/2/’O9) uses his poetic license to say
of Surveyor Scrivener, “So the young- man sadly rose.”
Dismissing the license, Scrivener is a wire-and-whipcord
old’un, who has kicked round most of N.S.W. with his
theodolite. One of his discoveries was Mt. Irvine, in the
Blue Mountains, eight miles from the idyllic Mt. Wilson,
which in its turn is responsible for the one-horse railway
station of Bell, 10 miles away. Many.men knew Mt, Irvine
from a distance, and hungered after its fertile basalt cap,
the existence of which was proved by the luxuriance of
its timber. But, until Scrivener tackled the job, no one
could find a way there. He bogged in and found it,
whereupon his son, then at the Hawltesbury College,
along with two other students selected the summit, and
they have turned it into a fine patch of orchard and other
cultivation.
The Bulletin is glad to hear, anyhow, that Wade
has turned his best explorer on to the job of find-
ing a suitable place for a Federal Capital in the
Yassberra dreariness. Even Wade seems to have
realised the size of the job.
“ Iyles Innison ” : A notable diplomat is
Guillaume Daniel Delprat, of the Big Mine.
As a witness during the late Arbitration
proceedings at Broken Hill he was the personi-
fication of cheerfulness and unruffled deli-
beration. He owns a smile which is an asset.
When asked a question, the smile disappeared for
a moment, to give place to a thoughtful knitting
of the brows. His right hand would go to his
forehead, and he would stare into space, as though
searching for the one absolutely honest, upright
and correct answer lodged there ; and then, when
he did answer, it wasn’t an answer at all. Even
the “ slim ” queries of the keen Justice Higgins
were futile. Only once or twice during the several
hours he was under cross-examination did his
armor show an open spot for the thrusts of the
soft-spoken Arthur. And even when the thrusts
seemed to go home they left the Court with the
suspicion that the vulnerability was merely
simulated for some hidden purpose. Del-
prat’s mastery of figures and his rapidity
at mental calculations were astounding, and his
broken English—also carefully cultivated at times
—rather added to his Napoleonic personality. At
one stage he handed in a statement of figures for
the Judge’s edification alone. Bub a few minutes
later Kelynack, the Proprietary’s counsel, men-
tioned one of the items in open court. Whereat
Delprat winked at him. That wink was a revela-
tion to ordinary, everyday winkers. They had
never seen a winklikeit.before. I used to think that
no mine manager was worth £5OOO a year. But
after watching Delprat the Dutchman evading the
point and winking his wink, I want to retract all
I thought. The wink alone is worth £4500;
and if the smile isn’t wmrth the other five hundred,
well, then, smiles have badly slumped.
Now that W.
J. George has
got back to the
Westralian As-
sembly, in place
of the deceased
McLarty, things
are likely to liven
up. George, who
had worked on
railway con-
tracts, after-
wards ran a
foundry in
Perth, and
scrambled up
from city coun-
cil to Parlia-
ment. His con-
tributions to the
debates were
usually headed
“ Scene in the
House,” and
punctuated with
“Dissent,” also
“Disorder.”
Once he came
down with a
sensational at-
tack on Judge
(now Chief Jus-
tice) Parker. A
commission and
various libel ac-
tions followed,
but all ended in
sjnoke. Mean-
while, Premier
Leake (who was
a brother-in-law
of Parker) pre-
sented George
with the Com-
missionership of
Railways, a snug
little job worth £l5OO
per year for four years,
with a year’s leave of absence
on full pay thrown in, mainly on the ground that
George had been recently tacklingrailway manage-
ment and knocking holes in it. But even while he
was Commissioner the racketing continued, so
when his term expired the Moore Government
would not renew it. Now George is in Parliament
again, and the Government doesn’t feel easy
about it.
Albury’s novelist, W. G. Henderson,
whose “Midnight’s Daughter” had some vogue
at both ends of the earth, will have “Norah
Conougli,” a new Australian novel, of? the stocks
shortly. Albury seems to have a good atmosphere
to romance in. “ Rolf Boldrewood ” wrote several
of his yarns while serving as Police Magistrate
there.
“Westerner ” writes :
Wallace Nelson, now lecturing for the Westralian
Government in the Cold Country, has perpetrated a book
on Australia which is to be published shortly. Winston
Churchill is to write an introduction. Nelson is an
amazingly clever person, well-known in Queensland and
the West as a journalist, lecturer and politician. After
many attempts in Queensland, he scaled the greasy pole
of Parliamentary honors in the West and served a brief,
inglorious term as a member for Hannans. As a journalist
he claims to have been present at the death of more
papers than any other man in Australia; the People's
Newspaper (Rockhampton), the Figaro (Kalgoorlie), the
Democrat (Perth), and numerous others passed out
with him at the bedside. He is a brilliant writer. As
a business manager I have been told that there are worse
men, and it seems possible, though whether it is probable
or not I am unable to say.
Melbourne papers announce regularly
nowadays that “The So-and-so mail steamer,
which berthed yesterday, brought 100 (or 200 or
350) immigrants, of whom three (or six, or pos-
sibly 10) were for Victoria.” Westralia, Queens-
land, and Ma are all attracting population
in moderation ; the two most land-monopolised
States of the Commonwealth—Tas. and Vic. —
attract practically nobody. Not only that, but
they are steadily losing even their natural in-
crease of native Australians.
ROYAL PLEASANTRIES.
King Edward is in high spirits as the result of his
visit to Berlin.— Cable.
“Now , stoppit, Hcdward! ”
“ Oh, go hon — you!"
British Liberals are changing their battle-
cry, and overboard goes Freptrade again
Mr. J. A. Pease, Parliamentary Secretary to the
Treasury, speaking at Plymouth on February 12, said that
a general election would come before many months passed,
and the issue would be the abolition of the veto of the
House of Lords.
No more talk of “ rallying around the standard of
Freetrade,” and making '‘free food ” and a “free
breakfast-table” the issue. They have tried the
Cobden cock at a dozen by-elections, and he won’t
fight.


|V%
s
HI
in
E 3
E 3
<o
o
J
18
*
%
/
3'
\
•• CHAMPION.
The new “ natural flavor ” tobacco (cut and plug'
of highest grade, and retaining the delicate flavor
of the original Virginia leaf.
The “Champion” trade-marK appears on every 2o z. tin, light and darß cut.


Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have fok Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawing's.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Bouis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
Mr. Charles Haas, Tunnel, Tas., says:—
“For many years I was a sufferer from liver com-
plaint, from which I could obtain no relief. Three
years ago I commenced using Chamberlain’s
Tablets, and the result was so satisfactory that I
am now never without a bottle in the house.
Many of my friends used them on my recom-
mendation.”*
All who are interested in Australian
national, politics should read “The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through '.The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “ peaceful ” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
• •
V.
-/i
Weak and HI from
Lack of Blood.
t An Anaemic Girl Restored in
Sydney by
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS.
There are thousands of girls and women in Aus-
tralia in the toils of anaemia. Because their
blood has become thin and watery, and our hot
summers always make the blood thin, their whole
health is wrecked. They have a deathly pallor,
dull eyes, fickle appetite, dragging steps, without
strength or vitality. If the state be neglected
there are serious chances that consumption may
develop.
A replenished blood supply will banish the
whole trouble. Amongst blood makers we have
never heard of anything that seriously competes
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
That’s what they are for —to make new blood.
They make girls and women well and happy,
impart an appetite and steadily bring back the
charm and brightness of perfect, regular health.
They cured Miss Marie Cristensen, 186 J Regent
Street, Redfern, who made the following state-
ment to a reporter :
“I am naturally healthy, but about six months
ago I got very run down. My appetite got very
poor; I never cared to eat a good meal. I be-
came subject to most severe headaches lasting for
days at a time. I used to get giddy turns and
would faint right off. My head would swim and
everything would go black. I’d lie awake at
night for hours at a time. All my color began to
go and I got quite thin. I’d be so tired with the
least exertion that I wasn’t fit for anything. I
felt wretched in spirits. At last I decided to
give Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a trial, and after
taking the second box I felt much stronger. I got
three more boxes and I improved steadily. My
headaches got less, my appetite picked up, and I
lost that ghastly pallid look. I hardly needed the
fifth box, but I finished it and it picked me up
completely. lam now my old self again and as
well as I could wish.”
Insist on getting Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They are sold by most chemists and storekeepers,
or if not locally obtainable will be sent direct by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney, for 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS,
u
s;
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emascuiators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne. SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE BABY FARMERS.
Australia has had troubles in the past, but they are
only “ teething troubles,” as Lord Northcote called
them.—DUDLEY.
Poor little feller! Not likely to be rid of them
either till he gets out of the hands of the'baby-
farmers.
The term for which the N.S.W. Board of
Fisheries was appointed expires this month. The
members of the Board considered the position at
their last meeting, and, after carefully inspecting
themselves, passed a most unanimous resolution
that they all ought to be re-appointed. The
responsible Minister has been informed accord-
ingly. And as no special mortality has been
reported among Ministers, they have apparently
stood the shock. In fact, they are reported to
like this sort of practice, for they are trying to
get used to the idea of Wade as Chief Justice.
And it takes a lot of trying.
That odorous transaction, the purchase of
the Maribyrnong (Vic.) Estate, won’t stay dead.
Warde, member for Flemington, stirred up recol-
lections of the business recently. He wanted to
know what the Government proposed to do with
the balance of the estate, and the new Minister of
Lands placidly informed him that the Govern-
ment was trying to sell the balance —a matter of
1000 or 1100 acres—to the Closer Settlement Board
at a loss estimated at £5OOO on the whole trans-
action. And yet almost as familiar as the name
and aroma of the deal was the oft-reiterated brag
of Thingummybent that he could have sold the
land any time at a prpfit. Which shows what
Thingummy’s large, loud assertions were worth.'
Australia’s P.M.G., who is struggling to
make ends meet in the Post and Telegraph De-
partment, and declares that rates will have to go
up for some services, deserves more sympathy
than he gets. Quite a lot of otherwise good Aus-
tralians growl at his Department, and don’t re-
member the amazing things that they get for
their money. For instance, they can have a
16-word telegram sent from Thursday Island to
Port Darwin for Is. The distance (cable and land
lines) is over 8700 miles. If the same message were
lodged in London to go to Kurrachi (about the
same distance) it would be 225. Or if McTavish,
of Glasgow, sent to St. Petersburg—a less dis-
tance —he would have to pay about 19s. In
America, on the zone system, the cost would be
about 7s.
The Argus jumps ponderously upon
Senator Trenwith for enlarging on the danger of
female competition in the fields of industry :
The normal man is a married man, or seeks to be one,
with the responsibilities of marriage. The woman-
worker’s minimum is the sustenance needed for herself
alone. The result is that she takes, and is glad to take,
employment at a salary which, adequate for her own
needs. would be inadequate to keep the man with his de-
pendents. The senator only sows discontent when,
without any reason, he tells her she is being robbed.
That par is more eloquent and forceful than Tren-
with himself in epitomising the evil. It is the
kind of argument with which the Argus once ex-
cused the cheap Chineee. Woman must work
cheaply because she can live cheaply. The
failure of the capitalist to take full advantage of
that cheapness would be subversive of “ economic
principles,” and every respectable person knows
that ‘ ‘ economic principles ” are much more to be
venerated than human life or happiness.
An analysis of the terms on which the
Sunny Ridge subdivision is being offered shows
what tremendous things the N.S.W. Government
is doing for the settler of small means. The
estate was resumed by the Government at be-
tween £5 and £6 per acre. The terms are 5 per
cent, deposit, 5 per cent, in 12 months, 4 per cent,
interest on the balance, and 10 per cent, on the
capital value of improvements. The smallest
farm is 257 acres, and on the above figures the
assisted settler would have to find about £450 cash
in two years, along with cost of house, plant, etc.,
and his living expenses. The total would thus be
£BOO or more. Add to this the fact that the
Government resumptions are increasing the price
of the land in the neighborhood, and anybody can
see how thoroughly the small man is being catered
for, and how unnecessary the progressive land-
tax is !
Everywhere but in their ‘ * leading columns ”
you can find things like this in the Sydney daily
papers
Muswellbrook has been at a standstill for years. The
reason is found in the surrounding network of big estates.
These exceedingly rich lands have been utilised for wool
and beef from the earliest times, and whichever way one
travels there is a chain of them. Progress has to wait
the pleasure of the squatter. However well run a large
estate may be in a favored district like Muswellbrook, it
is a hindrance to the settlement of the legitimate farming
class. Whatever the national policy may be, the domi-
nant idea of the pastoralists is not the multiplication of
farms.
The Herald’s own “national policy” is to
borrow money, and buy one squatter out at a high
price, whereupon the next squatter will want a
still higher price; and by the time any decent
area has been acquired, the selector will have to
pay so much that he will have practically no
chance of success. Muswellbrook’s only hope is a
graduated land-tax.
The appallingly incompetent and chuckle-
headed Newton Moore Government of Westralia
has decided that it won’t be guilty of the foolish-
ness of giving itself its own IO U. It will do
worse —it will give the I O U to some foreign
Cohenstein. Then, says the Ought-to-know-
More Government, the money in Australia will
be available for the private Australian borrower.
There is no reason why it shouldn’t be available
for both ; but Moore can’t see a little thing like
that. fie evidently reckons that when the
Government borrows money it eats the substance,
or buries it, or gets it out of the way somehow. As
a matter of fact, if the money is spent in the
country it gets back to the banks, and is available
for lending over again; and the interest is also
available for lending to the private borrower.
But when the State borrows from the foreign
Cohenstein, in 99 cases out of 100 the country
gets no money (as Coghlan shows, it only gets
goods); and then the interest goes out of the
country in a steady stream, and isn’t, therefore,
available for the private borrower. So instead of
improving things for the private borrower, foreign
borrowing by the State makes things worse for
him in the end even if it doesn’t do it at once—
and it often does it at once also.
“Dejected,” from S. Australia :
What’s all this fuss in Noo South about having- the first
two boats for the Australian navy made in Sydney?
What’s Wade buzzing jfbout for? What are the Sydney
Labor people veiling out about? Don’t they like things
made in England and other foreign parts ? If they don’t,
what do they elect Joe Cook for—and Johnson, and Willy
Kelly, and Neild, and the rest of them? And, if the
Labor party doesn’t like it, what does it “ sink the fiscal
issue ” for?
SPLENDID ISOLATION.
Labor is simply lying on the bed it has made for it-
self.—Age.
“ Mean curmudgin! ”
What is probably the full extent of ex-
Premier Bent’s unauthorised raids on the Yietorian
Treasury, during the period following the late
dissolution, is now revealed. According to Watt,
who is Bent’s unimpressive successor at the cash-
box, orders without proper authorisation had been
issued for no less than £480,533 ss. lOd. That
sum included, however, a Treasurer’s emergency
balance of £50,000, and an unexpended warrant
balance of £247,150 10s. 2d., so that, at any rate.
Bent had spent £183,382 15s. Bd. for which he had
no warrant whatever. Evidently Bent, drunk
with his own omnipotence, had swept up every
sou, not troubling overmuch whether it was his
sou or somebody else’s.
Again the “ drastic tariff” finds work for
a few dozen Australians, besides bringing a score
of skilled mechanics into the Commonwealth to
give a start to a new industry. Last week G-. B.
Kent and Co., who for 140 years have been
supplying most of the empire and a good deal of
the outside world with brushes of all sorts, opened
a new factory in Melbourne for making paint
brushes. Presently they will set to work turning
out other kinds of brushes ; and they pay local
union wages. So far, they get their bristles from
Russia and the necessary sycamore wood from
England and the Continent; but being now on the
spot, they are going to nose around Australia to
see if it hasn’t got a timber superior even to syca-
more. As for bristles—well, they’ll probably go
out shooting motor-hogs.
Curious how the Labor party comes to the
heel of its arch enemies, the morning Tory press,
Sydney D.T. has persistently accused the Labor
party of working for Unification, and of wanting
to undermine the Constitution by destroying State
Rights. And on account of the tone of the daily
press, the Labor party, whose interests are all
bound up with Unification, rushes into print
to deny that it is working for Unification.
The very fact that the D.T. has such a holy
horror of Unification is one reason why the
Labor party should advocate it for all it is worth.
State Governments are the last hope of the
sweater, and the only protectors of the monopolists.
Wipe out the States, and all Australia is in the
hand of the Federal Parliament, the most demo-
cratic of all Parliaments in the continent.
Apparently the Government auditors who
are supposed to keep an eye on the financial
capers of Victorian municipal councils are only a
joke or an expensive nuisance. The other day
the Footscray auditor disallowed an item of
£26 ss. for the purchase of mayoral robes—rabbit
furs with brass fixings—whereupon an inquisitive
new-chum councillor wanted to know what would
happen. The old hands hastily squelched him.
“Tut, tut! Say nothing. Take no notice.”
“But I want to. know.” “Never mind. The
least said the better.” “ Well, what’s the use of
the audit?” “ Oh, it pleases him to find fault,
and it makes no difference.” “I suppose we’ll
have to pay the amount ourselves.” Chorus:
“ Hush-sh ; don’t make unpleasant suggestions.”
Now, seeing that the only corrective to the average
municipal councillor’s irregularities is the fact that
he is personally liable by law for illegal expendi-
ture, it ought to be Chief Secretary Murray’s
business to say something unpleasant to those
Footscray councillors.
One industry breeds another. Now it’s
Pathe Freres, the Parisian cinematograph people,
who propose to start a branch of their picture-
making business somewhere in Australia. Their
idea is to instal a plant similar in design, if not in
size, to that at Vincennes, where they employ
3500 workers. Even when people can get their
stuff in free they mostly have savee enough to
recognise that there's a future ahead of a rich
country which has decided to go in for a policy of
high Protection; so they decide to get in early
and avoid the crush—and also the duty that is
liable to arrive on their own class of goods
presently.
The hauls of contraband opium made about
Sydney Heads of late are nothing in value com-
pared with the hauls of contraband spirits made
before the headlands were dotted with points of
observation. Thousands of pounds’ worth of
liquor were regularly run ashore at secluded
spots, provision being made by Sydney firms,
whose members were the founders of some of the
flourishing families of the present day, to surrep-
titiously convey the goods to the city. An old
water-policeman pounced on one lot of 4000
gallons at Broken Bay. An estimable firm of
Sydney merchants proved to be the principals in
the swindle, and as these merchants happened
just then to be at loggerheads, in a society
sense, with a very distinguished and can-
tankerous per sonage, the Law sharpened its
teeth and laid hold. The loss of the stuff and
the fines, penalties and Costs ran that firm
into a bill of £15,000.
Victoria’s House of Stout Landsharks
can be rapid enough sometimes. Minister for
Works Baillieu was seeking, the other day, to
push through an Appropriation Bill authorising
the expenditure of a trifle of £5,256,435, -when
Evans, M.L.C., asked for some information on
the vote. Thereupon Baillieu, who most likely
didn’t have any information to give, suggested
that if Evans wanted to know details, he had
better follow the debates in the Assembly ; and,
to the disgust of Evans, the Bill was passed
through all stages in about a couple of minutes.
On the same day Murray’s Loan Bill for a million
or two also saucer-tracked into law in the same
House in very fast time. The speed with yhich
these Tory Governments pass Loan Bills with-
out discussion contrasts flagrantly with the rate
at which they discuss, say, factory legislation
without passing it.
THE IRON HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the Iron House that Jack built.
These are the men who found shelter and food
In the Iron House that Jack built.
These are the families of nine and ten,
Acquired by the strongest and best of men,
Who found shelter and food (and a Beer now then)
In the Iron House that Jack built.
These are the butcher, the baker, the tailor,
The farmer, the grocer, the carrier, the sailor ;
The doctor, the merchant, and all kinds of men,
Who were kept busy over those families of ten,
Brought up by the men who found shelter and food
In the Iron House that Jack built.
These are the plates and the ingots and bills
That were hammered and cast and rolled out in the mills
Into engines, and cannon, and rails, and steel springs
For the use and defence of the persons and things
And all that pertained to the various men
Who were kept busy over the families of ten,
Brought up by the men who found shelter and food
In the Iron House that Jack built.
This is the Money that other folk sent
For the ingots and plates and the rails, straight and bent,
That were cast, forged and rolled in the great roaring
mills —
The Money that paid all the wages and bills
Of the workers and traders and all kinds of men
Who looked to the wants of the families of ten,
Brought up by the men who found shelter and food
(Along with tobacco and Beer now and then)
In the Iron House that Jack built.
This is the Nation, secure, unafraid,
That slowly took shape round the House Jack had made,
Firm-founded on progress, fairplay and content,
And furnished with Money that other folk sent
For the ingots and billets and hundred odd things
Like cannon and cutlery, girders and springs,
That provided the wages and settled the bills
Of those who supplied all the needs of the mills ;
The workers and traders and crop-growing men,
Whose products were used by the families of ten,
Acquired by the strongest and best of the men
Who found shelter and food (and a Beer now and then)
In the Iron House that Jack built.
And this is the point I desire to impress
On the minds of all men : If we mean to progress,
If we mean to become strong, secure, unafraid,
Independent in war, independent in trade ;
If for commerce and poiver we mean to contend,
To stand stern before foe and stand staunchly by friend ;
If we mean to cast ingots, and forge and roll plates
For cannon and ships, and so lock up our gates ;
If we mean to employ hosts of men in our mills,
And give them the work that will settle their bills,
With the workers and traders and crop-growing men
Who will have to look after the families often
That should spring from the men who ask ivork and a
meal,
Let us make haste to smelt down our ore into steel; ■
In short—in a sentence—we’re pledged to the hilt,
So without loss of time — let Jack get his House built 1
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
THE PEACEMAKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King Edward, speaking his little-lesson at the opening
of the Imperial Parliament, congratulated himself oh the
peace-making effect of his trip to Germany. In Berlin,
he said, the darling object of his heart was to promote
peace. Later, it was declared that the visit was a grati-
fying success, but there was no probability of the idea of
disarmament being seriously entertained.
Sweet Peace her royal ally sent
To Berlin, which is on the Spree.
His mission was to spread content
And kill malicious rivalree.
His speeches, couched to that effect,
Had all the vogue he could expect.
The people cheered with lusty shout
What Edward said in friendship’s name;
The Kaiser hastened to point out
His sentiments were just the same.
Then priest and press, at home, abroad,
Declared a triumph had been scored.
Peace, up aloft, received the news.
Her smile was grim. Good reason why—
No echoes of these gracious views
Had reached her ; all were smothered by
The fierce and never-ending roar
Of foundries forging arms of war !
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


TD
■'
’
■■■■■■■■
Enamel Kid
Lace Shoe
' *■' . i • "•
;>* ;
Buckley&Nunn.L™
MELBOURNE.
HE
SSI
'
Pump Sole
17/6
Welt Sole
18/6
■BEST
VALUE
TN
Australia,
Postage
Extra
D
Fine
Shoe
Dealers
SELLING LIKE RIPE CHERRIES.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
(f a
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Published at a cheap rate to enable the
multitude to buy them.
% RECITER
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; postage, sd.
Cloth, is. ; postage, 3d.
Paper, is. ; postage, 3d.
Paper, is. ; postage, 3d.
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; postage, sd.
Cloth, is. ; postage, 3d.
Cloth, is. ; postage, 3d.
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; postage, sd.
Cloth, is. ; postage, 3d.
postage, 3d.
postage, sd.
postage, 3d.
postage, 3d.
Cloth, is.
Cloth, 2s.
Paper, is.
“Steele Rudd”—The Poor Parson
j, Sandy’s Selection
~ For Life ...
~ Dad in Politics ...
(The above two combined)...
)> Back on Our Selection
>5 From Selection to City
De Boos (Chas.) —Settler and Savage
Bloxbam (H. K.) —On the Fringe of the Never Never
Green (James) —The Selector
Dyson (Edward) —In the Roaring Fifties
>, The Missing Link
Websdale (C. D.) —Seafarers ... Cloth, 2s. ; postage, sd. Paper, is. ,
Pratt (A.) —Three Years with Thunderbolt.. .Cloth, 25.; postage, sd. Paper, is.; postage, 3d.
Barry (A. J.) —Steve Brown’s Bunyip ... ... ... Cloth, is. 6d. ; postage, 6d.
~ The Luck of The Native Born ... ... Paper, is. ; postage, 3d.
Spencer (T. E.) —How McDougall Topped the Score ... Paper, is. : postage, 3d.
» The Spring Cleaning ... ... ... Paper, is. ; postage, 3d.
(Theabove two combined)... ... ... Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; postage, sd.
„ The Surprising Adventures of Mrs. McSweeney—
Paper, is.
Tighe (Harry)—A Man of Sympathy ...
Porter (L. B.) —Riverfall
“The Bulletin’’ Reciter—New Edition (complete)
Harbor Guide—with Colored Maps
Guide to Sydney—with Colored Maps
Sydney Illustrated— Panoramic View
Scenic Sydney and Harbor—Panoramic View
White (Charles) —John Vane, Bushranger ,
Birtles (Francis) —Lonely Lands : Through the Heart of Australia—
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; postage, sd.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, 6d.
Paper, is.
Board, 2s.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
postage, 3d.
postage, 3d.
postage, 3d.
postage, 3d.
; postage, 3d.
postage, 3d.
; postage, 4d.
postage, 3d.
postage, 3d.
Three Years
Thunderbolt
mm
ie
This is the book of the year.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
?*
► . the */
Surprising
Adventures
&
-r -
Mrs. Bridge t
K f'.‘sKstM tr
"Start the New Year Well"
Make Up Your Mind to Begin NOW to
Improve Yourself —TO EARN MORE.
We can train you, so as to enable you to greatly improve
your position, if you desire to do so.
Stott’s Correspondence Cste
Can Train You —By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS /
Stott's Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists' Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ft
wm
0
.V: •'
4.mm
m
si
I
a*
V
1
r|V/
:
I
.
iSSS
KRUSE'S
LUI1) MAGNESIA
r r.
v^'ViV
ssasr®
i. W
of it
»s~r,s?
tca«fi
3S
S£v
SWfSSWK
BIOH
ffM
■
Iki, \/o HVjJ Livriat CV
,
Aecihiooe


to H.M.
Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY b, jJ/ fIXEST EXTRA Q?
FOR
DIRECTOIRE GOWNS
Every Up-to-date Dressmaker will tell you that
“No other lining is so perfectly adapted for
gowns of the Directoire and Empire periods.”
SEE “SILVASHEEN” NAME ON SELVEDGE.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR lT.~m
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
There’s nothing nicer or
better for you than a cup of
Robur Tea—make it fresh—
put milk or cream in it (and
sugar, if you like it sweetened),
and it forms a beverage fit for
the Queen to drink.
Robur is pure tea—you
can drink it every day, and
many times a day, without
fear of its doing you harm—
but please don’t let it draw
too long or you’ll spoil it.
The No. 1 Grade is tea
that you will like —it is
delicious
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 23, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
As a Governor, Lord Chelmsford will, on his
Brisbane performance, be the antithesis of Harry
Jiawson, knight and admiral. Governor Rawson
has, on the surface, no political convictions. He
discusses arbitration with a Laborite as sympa-
thetically as he does the new anti-gambling laws
with a member of the State Government. He has
a bluff, sea-doggish tact, which is marvellously
effective as a social and political peace-producer.
The only view he has ever publicly committed
himself to is that religious bigotry is an insane
manifestation in any country, and particularly
so in a country like this. He thus roused
the rancor of extremists in both the Orange and
the Green camps, which was a fine tribute to the
reasonableness and justice of his contention. His
social “manner” is modelled on quarter-deck
lines. It is undistinguished, but hearty. He is
the most easy-going, friendly old host, the most
unimpeachable moralist personally, and withal
the most intolerant of scandal-mongeringin regard
to others, that any N.S.W. State Government
House has ever sheltered.
Lord Chelmsford, on the other hand, is a young
man with a mission in life. He burns to leave
places better than he found them. He considers
the Queenslanders, for all their faults, his
“people,” even as “the squire” regards the
yokels on the family estate. It is sure
that he will also take the inhabitants of
this State to his unimpeachably tailored bosom
and make them his “people” too. His poli-
tical opinions are strong, and they insist on
outing at every turn. The Federal tariff is to him
a thing accurst. He comes of a rigidly Freetrade
family, and he married a Guest. As the Norfolks
are to the Tory-Protectionist section of English
society, so the Guests are to the Whig-Freetrade
branch of it. Lord Chelmsford is a Whig or
Liberal; that is to say, a violent Tory in a thin
disguise. He believes that Socialism will ulti-
mately cause something to Burst, find that the
existence of the Menace or Spook in Australia is
driving capital to those parts (always unrrien-
tioned) of the earth’s surface where Individualism
reigns unhampered.
His manners are, however, perfect. None en-
duresa stout, plain, aspirate-less member of the in-
digenous nobility with more artistically-feigned
delight than he. Outwardly he is always interested,
always cheerful; never, under any circumstances,
bored. The only complaint society proper of the
Northern State is liable to throw at its retreating
Governor will be. that he was “ always so unnatur-
ally charming to quite impossible people.” It is his
pleasing way to enthuse somewhat over all elderly
and unattractive dames. How different to the
method of Sir Harry, whose gift for eluding the
female who wants either to marry him or to land
him in a prolonged and profitless talk on the
world-old topic of Nothing Whatever amounts to
Divine genius ! Both Governors are sportsmen in
theory if not in practice ; the Rawson speciality is
football, that of the Chelmsford potentate cricket
—with golf as a side-line.
And there are other angles of difference. Lord
Chelmsford is good-looking : his most fanatical
worshipper would scarcely level a like charge at
Sir Harry. Bananaland’s present representative
is by way of being “cultured”; he is a music
enthusiast. The head of the Cranbrook household
faces classical music with the squared jaw one
conceives him wearing during the hotter moments
of the Brass River Expedition.
In short, as I have already observed, the two
notabilities are as unlike as Yass and Elysium.
A snapshot of your Akenehi has reached me,
your Johanna, and I have Stood it up between her
dissipated-looking green velvet dog and her bronze
Buddha. The wanderer was “snapped” on the
summit of Kosciusko, draggingan amazed-looking
pony by its bridle and carrying a chunk of
granite—the latter presumably for splitting
up into souvenirs. Later, anxious inquiries
discovered her in the valley of Jinda-
byne, catching numerous trout ’ of incredible
size and beauty, and protesting thus against the
disturbance: “ I have been buried here for seven
days, and have no wish to be excavated. Before
I started for the Monaro a veteran earth-girdler
said of its atmosphere : ‘ There is no air like it in
the world,’ and at every mile of last week’s coach-
ing I recalled the observation. From Ber'ridale
to Dalgety, and from Dalgety to Jindabvne, surely
the wind that blew out of Creation’s dawn was
not fresher or more electrifying. So like wine
that I doubt a total abstainer’s right to breathe it.
“Five times I saw the sun burn a in the
forehead of the horizon and sink behind the rocky
spines that would background the Oanitol, if Dal-
gety were chosen for a Federal city. I saw those
40 miles of undulating, open country, and built a
dream city (using up all the granite on the site)—
a city crowned with towers and cupolas ; and
then I turned the sunrise on, and saw the windows
of my vague, vast city flame crimson under the
rose of dawn. Just as I was thinking that the
legislators ought to be asked to take this aspect
into consideration, a rock lizard about an eighth
of a mile long trailed up to investigate me, and
the dream gave way to business—that of flight.
“On Kosciusko a Monaroite remarked : ‘Up
here the touring Maorilander often snubs us. In
response to our observation that “Kossy ” is
nearly 7000 ft. high, he sniffs, replying that Mount
Cook is quite 13,000ft.’ A mile from its source
where it stumbles as it runs, as befits infancy. I
walked across the Snowy ; and in the Jindabyne
Valley, 40 miles from its source, and in the lusti-
h.ood of its power, I took my first trout from this
river, and thus became (to quote our editor) a
mighty gasometer before the Lord. The Snowy
at Jindabyne is hemmed with willows that are
for ever dipping and drawing long green plumes
to and fro through the water. .. . The diamond-
like brightness of the unflawed sunlight—if I had
to work under it perhaps I would give it another
description, but as I had only to loaf through it to
where the weeping willows wept most deeply into
the river, to where
The green leaves made the summer blind
In that soft place they kept for me,
above the deep pool where the fish sported up to
the surface of the sword-bright water to seize my
un-moral bait, that Monaro sunlight was a tissue
to be woven into dreams and stories.
“I said ‘un-moral bait.’ Driven to madness
by the sight of my first trout —or, to be quite
accurate, by the long interval between him and
the arrival of his successor—l discarded the gaudy
artificial fly (he wore a grey body-coat and tur-
quoise spats), and fished with the natural grass-
hopper. Then did the other sports staying at the
hotel give me the glacial eye. They were such
moral sports ! But if they didn’t like hoppers the
trout did.
“ In my valley an exquisite picture awaits its
painter. From a coign above an old mill that
used to grind corn 40 years ago you look between
the tops of two willows and see the Snowy a
crescent of lapis lazuli, the Crackenback tower-
ing on its left, the township swooning in the
cradle of the hills, and in the far distance the
misty purple of the Kulkite Range, where the
wind is so strong that it blows the shoes off the
horses. I know that when I’ve left here I’ll nag
at Providence to put back the hand of time and
give me yesterday.”
It’s not often that a mere local Governor acts as
chief factor in a coronation ceremony. But Gover-
nor Rawson, in his muddy wanderings through
stoneless Walgett and the surrounding country,
struck the regal town of Collarenebri (don’t at-
tempt to read that word unless you are perfect—
hie—ly sober), where he found -an aborigi-
nal tribe mourning its dead king, Rum-steeped
Jimmy, and tossing boomerangs to decide on
a new monarch. Prince Bob Cobbler, son of the
second-last king, Cobbler 1., finally got the job.
King Cobbler I. is alleged, on poor evidence, to
have reached the hoary, old, withered, dry-gin
age of 100 years, so that several next-of-kin were
waiting for his crown before Bob had a show.
The king is dead —vive the king ! Quite 40 of the
tribe lined-up before the hospital (the building
of most regal splendor in the town), while Sir
Harry Rawson proclaimed King Bob. Then the
two potentates shook hands, and the Viking pre-
sented the King with a sovereign, whereat Bob
returned the compliment with the metal plate
worn by his sire (on promise of a new one from
the Governor).
Unfortunately old friend “Tith.” who read the
Proclamation when the late Victoria became
Empress of India, wasn’t available to give the
Viking a helping hand at the Walgett Proclama-
tion. For though Tith. is in these southern parts
again, appendicitis has driven him into a Maori-
land hospital. And the Commonwealth will
regard it as an unfriendly act if Maoriland doesn’t
turn him out again as good as new with all reason-
able speed.
Mr. Roger Fitzhardinge and Miss Nancy Clubbe
were married last week at St. John’s, Darling-
hurst. The bridegroom is N.S.W.’s champion
amateur oarsman and stroke of the N.S.W.
Eight. He belongs to the immense clan of Fitz-
liardinges, who are Judges, solicitors, and doc-
tors in’ various parts of the country ; also all those
things in embryo in various other parts of the
country. The bride is a daughter of Dr. Clubbe,
and a pretty girl.
Another wedding of the week was that of Mr.
Harold White and Miss Esme Sly. The cere-
mony took place at St. Anne’s Church, Strath-
field, and to it flowed the bluest blood of that
suburb. Miss Sly is a daughter of Dr. G. J. Sly,
and a niece of Justice “Dick” Sly and of solicitor
Dr. Sly, his brother—there were three law-doctors
in one family. She owns enough relations, male
and female, to satisfy the most pessimistic com-
mentator on the local birth-rate problem. Her
spouse is one of the Whites of Muswellbrook.
The main station of that extensive family is
Edenglassie, half-a-dozen miles outside the
town. The Whites are horsey and pastoral folk
chiefly. An uncle of last week’s bridegroom was
elevated, or dropped (which term you prefer) into
the Upper House by the Wade Government the
other day, to the bafflement of the general herd,
who, till then, had been unaware that he lived.
The enthusiastic way the heavens decided on
rain on Saturday nearly drowned the slight Sly
bride. Stdl, the fifty-guinea wedding dress was
saved, by a system of Sir Raleigh coats and awn-
ings, from total destruction. The frocks were not
the least important items of that wedding. The
bride’s dress was built in Sydney, though it was
in the latest foreign mode of such shrouds. It had
a square train, which is the newest; and its
satin sheath was lined with nun’s-veiling, which is
so new that it can scarcely squeak, and is a Parisian
cute idea to make the dress Cling. Unless your
dress follows the lead of the Ivy to the Oak nowa-
days your name is Mud. Shining all over this
gorgeous gown were silver fringe and silver
flowers. The flowers were beaten out of Indian
rupees (wherefore, I know not, but that also
sounds New), and the enveloping veil was a bit of
Brussels lace that would have bought twenty
motor-cars. A block of bridesmaid built up
a blue color-scheme for background. Three
younger sisters Sly, Miss Rawson, Miss Wal-
ford, and Miss White were the walk-
ing-on ladies. A fashionable frock builder
had wound them into soft, blue swathes and
topped their hair with mole-grey headgear. The
bride pridefully owns a waist of 18in., so that the
perpendicularity of the latest gowning freaks was
her “ cinch ” (to speak in the language of the
classics). Her travelling dress was a weave of
grey and braid that was “ consigned ” to
Paquin, but missed its way; and her half-
dozen trousseau dresses, Sydney-built, all had a
sniff of Paris. A most voluptuous fig-leaf
looked like roses and daisies swamped in
champagne. Everything new swims or looks
swamped. A striped linen among the pack looked
as if it had run in the wash. The brown and
white stripes blurred into each other in the most
swagger way—a way that women would swear at
had the laundry sent them so.
The London dailies had a Smith-Morgan-Gren-
ville item in their “marriages” department the
other day. The parties were married at Holy
Trinity Church, Sloane-street, and the male prin-
cipal—Thomas Close Smith—is an Australian of
some social note. His father is Henry F. Smith,
who a few years ago owned the fertile Kyogle
(Upper Richmond River) station. Also, the late
Peter Close was the bridegroom’s uncle, his mother
having been a Miss Close. In a roundabout way
the Smiths are connected with the Darleys. The
first wife of Cecil Darley, of the Harbors and
Rivers Department, was a Miss Close.
Two travelling eligibles quicken the heart-beats
of society maidens who haunt the tea-precincts of
the Australia. The son of Sir Watkin Wynn (a
gentleman who takes a large size in the English
“Yeomanry” movement) is making the grand
tour with a tutor-companion, one Honorable
Tulloch. It’s hard to say which looks the more
tender-yeared, the Advisor or the Tutored. They
are both at a downy age that appeals to the
matchmakers as a guarantee of unappropriated
chance. Melbourne girls will scarcely glimpse
the duet, which plans Maoriland and South
America as a short cut to ’Ome and father.
The visitor recalls an old jest of “Augur”
Chapman, for so many years the sporting philo-
sopher of Melbourne Australasian. In his day
the name was borne by an actor of moderate re-
pute. Three met —Chapman, a friend, and the
actor. “No doubt, Chapman, you know Watkin
Wynne?” said the friend. No, Chapman didn’t.
“ But I often know what can lose.”
Every palatial gent’s res., ev. con., w. and s.,
Id. t., fi fo fum, that finds its way into the
columns of a daily, reaches in time its bedrock
as a boarding-house. But the latest and most
unique recruit to the ranks of Hash House is the
old General Gordon—that battler of a river-boat
which has manoeuvred round the Hawkesbury
since the bunyip and the platypus were
the most constant passengers. The boat
has been docked and decked and painted
and peeled, likewise furnished in a glory
that beggars a warehouseman’s catalogue. There
are three tiers of bedrooms and a surprising saloon
and dining-room. The whole gilded gondola is to
be anchored in some favorite bay, and when the
pampered boardingship-mites get tired of the
scenery, their boarding-house will move. (Pre-
Serve the captain when the caprice , of a hundred
or more “boarders” pull in diffeiput ways regard-
ing the next port of sleep !) INothing has been
mentioned so far of the plans for “ watering” the
ship. Probably a scheme is in working order.
The buying-up and the rebuilding and all the
blossoming scheme belongs to Mr. Nipper—one
time of the old firm of Nipper and See, out of
which sprang the late Premier John See’s financial
greatness. The idea appeals as Arcadian ; and, if
the new Arcadia hasn’t a halo of mosquitoes, it
should be rushed by the people who have been
bitten by the newest craze for sleeping-out.
Miss Fanny Dango is back in Sydney once
more, and the big section of sassiety which
thinks her “simply sweet,” likewise a “perfect
darling,” has been re-flocking to the “Duchess of
Dantzic,” to wave the pleased hanky at her across
the orchestral hair-oil. Of all the musical comedy
stars that have glimmered in this firmament,
Miss Dango has won for herself the surest position
among the ancient noblesse of this generation.
“ Andra” Black and his fair Lichtscheindl wife
(thank Heaven I haven’t got to spell that every
day !) returned on Thursday last to Sydney after
their merrymooning. The two pal’d with the
Jack Londons, and had a jolly time in Hobart.
The honeymooners look brisk and beaming in spite
of recent heavy seas and rough weather. The
poor bride professes to be no sailor ; but “Andra”
was a good nurse.
So now Andrew is the duly-licensed landlord of
a city hotel. There has been quite a procession
of more or less famous names over the door of
Pfahlert’s. The father of a Supreme Court Judge
once kept it; then the man who was afterwards the
first Australian to sit in the House of Commons
(I disremember his name, not being The Bul-
letin’s Oldest Inhabitant); now the city’s, if not
the Commonwealth’s, best-known concert baritone.
Melba is due in Fremantle on Thursday, where
she will meet the usual bombardment of wires and
smooth-hatted ad vance agents. This time she will
probably keep her eye glued on her bracelet watch
till she gets safely aboard. On her last arrival in
Westralia she went up to lunch with Governor
Bedford and his wife at Perth, and the yarn lasted,
altogether so long that Melba missed the train,
and the Potentate had to order a special to catch
the last fluttering gasp of thegangway. Herconcerts
commence in Melbourne on March 9, and will all
be given with full orchestra. The orchestra will
blow through the new set of normal-pitch band
instruments that the lady donated on her last
triumphal toot. Prof. Marshall Hall will shake
the necessary branch in Melbourne, and Slap, will
tap the performers to attention here in Sydney.
Still another farewell concert—outsiders would
think Australia a very aviary. In this case two
very young birdlings make an excellent bid for
notice. Miss Edith Dickerson has a profound
contralto voice that comes with the surprise of the
big note of the Town Hall organ, the fledgling is
so spare and gaunt. Yet she has the promise of
good physical background to her study, and is
likely to develop the contour of a typical con-
tralto. Sister Yera, who is to share in the glory,
is a pianist—a dainty Ariel of a sprite with some
power in her fluttering playing.
A real Parisienne with an English husband,
Mrs. Brinkman, is turning the heads of every
clothes-worshipper at the Australia. “It’s not
only what she wears but how she wears them,” is
the green-eyed wail of the other women. Her
frocks are quiet—with the devilish quiet of French
fashion ; and her hats droop at demure angles
that drive the male onlooker crazy with admira-
tion, and send the she-male straight to her mirror
and her milliner. So far there has been no recog-
nisable duplicate of the fetching droop.
The N. S. Wales Alliance, which is an aggressive
shout in praise of the vicious lemonade and other
fierce and fiery beverages, has its programmes
circulating for a Blow-out. The first thing on the
programme is a song by some Y.M.C.A.-ian
—Cellier’s “Drinking”! In horror and dread
of what I might read next, I fled from the sheet
at that point. For if these things are done in the
bud, what may not happen after the fruity “ in-
terval” ?
Polyphemus is dead. Hence Miss Beatrice
Day’s most tragic mien. Polyphemus was the
monster black cat who had a walking-on part in
“ The Morals of Marcus,” and was the adored of
the company. He died on the 13tli, and the un-
canny combination of Black Cat and Thirteen
filled the Julius Knight company with fears for
the First Night. Nevertheless", “Pimpernel”
is rushed as it never has been in all its scarlet
life. The addition of Grasshopper may have sup-
plied some subtle antidote to the magic mixture
of Cat and Thirteen. Polyphemus made his exit
through a too sumptuous repast of grasshopper—
a delicacy cultivated by the palate of epicurean
pussydom.
The presentation au revoir bouquet is growing
for Mrs. Mann, of Randwick, who with her son
and daughter set out for foreign parts on some
silver-plated liner leaving during the holy season
of Lent. Their exit puts the lady’s Blue Moun-
tain home, at Mount Wilson, on the market.
Theatre crowds have been goaded to a final
screech against scratch suppers. The 11.30
Closing Act has been working havoc on their
aggregate digestions—threatening destruction to
“Petite Marie,” to quote Gouriet-Papillon, the
“Dantzic” milliner. Most “shows” finish
somewhere on the shady side of 11, and by the
time fluffy wraps are garnered and Mrs. Snood-
Huggins’ motor has been yelled into line, there is
little left of the fractured half-hour. By the time
half-demented waiters have struggled blindly
along with your “bird,” the weeping maitre
d’hotel turns out the lights along with his hungry,
cussing, would-be customers. Considering the
present hoi ty -toity disposition of Merely Marianne,
supper in the palatial halls of one’s own humpy is
a matter of catch-as-catch-can. If the girls and
complacent mamma want to entertain visiting Lord
Billie Noodle at a cosy supper, because of a hope-
ful gleam of interest in his Lordship’s weary eye,
it’s hard luck to have nothing but the kitchen and
cockroaches to offer as sensuous surroundings to
the mayonnaise. Over Melbourne way the Vienna
Cafe has risen on its most powerful legs and
successfully yapped a tearful reproach at the
Licensing Court; and other places of torn food
hold their breath and wait to chip in.
English Poet-Laureate Austin has produced
the ghost of a long-buried objection to Woman
Franchise. “It is conceivable,” says the fatuous
Bard, “ that war might be brought about by
women, against the effort of men to avert it; and
in that event it would be men, and men alone,
who would have to fight, and, if need were, to
die, while the very utmost women could do would
be to act as ministering angels.” Austin has
written much rubbish, but never anything more
rubbishy than that. Long ago a rhymester, whose
verses will live longer that anything this laureate
has written, said he’d “have no fighting men
abroad or weeping maids at home.” And that
suggests the truth of the whole matter : war has
no compensations for women—they get nothing
but trouble out of it. If, therefore, their voice is
heard at all in time of national stress, it won’t be
in a shriek for blood and butchery, but in a soft
purr for just a little more delay, just a little
further time to smooth things over, just a little
more opportunity for sweet reasonableness.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.


The LONE HAND.
March Issue Ready Saturday!
The prestige which THE LONE HAND has won is
shown in this number by the publication of a special article
on the High Court Bench, to illustrate which their Honors
gave special sittings to THE LONE HAND photographer.
These copyright portraits are quite the best extant of the
Law lords of the Commonwealth.
A very interesting historical article in this March
number gives a record of the early Government Houses of
m
1S
A.&7*
A£M
Vw
wp
THE FIRST “ GOVERNMENT HOUSE ”IN AUSTRALIA—IT IS THE TENT FLYING A FLAG.
Reprodicced by kind permission of Dr. Houison.
the Commonwealth, from the tent set up on the banks of the
Tank Stream (Sydney), and the little hut that was the first
Melbourne vice-regal home, to the great palaces of to-day.
H
m
I
1
-- i'-
ll
m
m
FIRST GOVERNMENT HOUSE, MELBOURNE, 1804.
The stories in the March LONE HAND are of rare
originality and power. “The Pills of Joy” has a fantastic
and startling plot; “The Unreckoned Element” is a fine
tale of primal savagery, staged with modern accessories of
aeroplanes and submarines.
The series of special articles on “Our Unfinished
Commonwealth ” is continued; Papua, our black possession,
is pictured in a series of rare photographs. “ The Public
Good ” section deals firstly with Tricks of the Chemists’
Trade; a perusal of this article will save the householder
from many swindles. Other articles deal with Consumption
Cures and the fraudulent Spiritualists.
Melba takes up the tale of her early youth; and
recounts the rebuffs which she met in London at first,
when she was not thought good enough for comic opera.
In “The Commonwealth Crisis” C. H. Kirmess tells
the stirring story of “ The White Guard ” —a band of
Australian irregulars who rode across the Continent to oust
the Japanese colonists.
The White Guard.
C. H. Kirmess tells of the
gallant effort of Australian
Bushmen to drive the Japs
out of the Northern Ter=
ritory.
MELBA.
The great singer tells of
her early struggles when
she wasn’t thought good
enough for comic opera.
The High Co\irt.
Personal Sketches.
Special Portraits.
Government Houses.
The progress of Australia
graphically shown by the
Government Houses of to=
day and of last century.
The Pills of Joy.
A story of humor and
phantasy.
The UNRECRONED ELEMENT.
A grim war jStory.
The Month.
A review of the month’s
politics.
ALTOGETHER IT IS A GREAT NUMBER!
PUBLISHED AT ONE SHILLING.


BABY’S TEETH.
Lime in some form is what makes baby’s
teeth good, and helps him when getting
his teeth. Faliere’s Phosphatine Food
contains, in an easily assimilated form,
lime and all the other elements needed to
give baby good teeth. It builds up body
and brain, and is nice. Sample free from
.Toubert & Joubert, 552 Flinders Street,
Melbourne; Claude Healy'fe Co., 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney ; orD. & J. Fowler, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
FALIERE’S
Phosphatine Food
12
IN SILK, QUALITY COUNTS MOST.
EMBROIDERY WORK on which one spends per-
L -‘ haps months of leisure, requires that the very
choicest silk obtainable be used in its execution.
Otherwise the effect is spoilt by the impossibility of
catching' the exact tints of Nature.
CARLSON CURRIER
SEWING and Qll ■#©
EMBROIDERY UILIVO
are the World’s Standard —and sold in fast colors
ranging from the most delicate to the richest shades.
Let us send you a FREE copy of our Booklet, “ Art
Needlework,” giving many useful Hints on Embroid-
ery and giving beautiful reproductions of examples
worked with Carlson Ct. Tier Silks. In return all we
ask is the name of the Draper you buy from.
Leading- Stores Everywhere sell
CARLSON CURRIER SILKS.
Carlson Currier Co.,
The Block, Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
DUNLOP
Tired Feet.
Every woman knows
what this means. The
best and oisy remedy
is to walk on soft
Dunlop Rubber Heels.
They afford the
maximum of comfort,
and absorb all jarring
besides outwearing
several pairs of
leather heels. Once
used always used.
Rubber
Heels ,
Obtainable „ Accept only
all Stores Dunlop' Brand
Ensure
Satisfaction.
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney.
Adelaide. Perth.
Brikbane and
Chriitrhu'xh N.2L
Goods
are now used on all
the leading Mines on
account of their
Quality, Wear & Price
OUR Suction
Hoses, Rubber and
Balata Besting;,
Packings and In-
sertions, Valve and
Sheet Rubber, etc.,
have no equal.
That’s why we are
now doing over 70%
of the Mining Rub-
ber Goods Trade
of Australasia.
Tenoers and Samples Submitted.
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
KANDY
KOOLA
TEA
‘The best i* the country-
side, i* faitH.”
YOUR (
EARLY
CUP
n
R
Sold by all Grocers in Red, Blue, and Green Packets
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 22, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
Most noticeable, in a quite considerable muster
ot smart shes at Caulfield on Futurity Day, were
Mrs. Brookes and her intermittent friend, Mrs.
Howell, of Sydney. On Saturday they were in-
separable, and pretty much alone as regards the
rest of the Sex on the festive scene. The pair
made a harmony in grey chiffon velvet fully
directoired, the negative color scheme being
backed up by a cavalier in a grey suit,
and varied by the frequent company of
the immaculately-tailored Mr. Crolcer, who
took them to tea. Nevertheless this pair of
greys didn’t take the cake in competition with
the dame whose directoire turn-out (in mole tint)
was improved by a lace mantilla arrangement of
a shade to match. A very stately exponent of
the new fashion was Mrs. Peter McBride, carry-
ing the regulation stick, and walking with
measured tread in the company of husband Peter
and Premier John Murray—formerly known as
“Jack.” Mrs. Williamson, also directoired, in
pale-ale tint, came down with J.C.W. in a taxi-
cab, and stayed an hour or two.
Some young subjects of sentimental interest
were the new bride, Mrs. Knox, simply gowned
in white muslin, and sporting a wreath of roses
on her brown hat. The youthful wife and hubby, as
was generally remarked, might have been mistaken
for a twin brother and sister at their first race meet-
ing. Miss Margot Cavan Duffy, the pioneer grand-
daughter of the original Charles, had her fianci
for escort. The fianaZ, Barrister Starke, is hardly
less boyish-looking than he was five years ago,
and if he is to be a Judge later on he had better haste
to the wedding. Matrimony should bring him a
few of the wrinkles that are looked for in one
whom the Bar delights to Honor. Of a dozen or
two pretty girls who smiled approvingly when
Soultline’s number went up, or deplored the defeat
of Irishman, none looked more fetching than
“Rolf Boldrewood’s ” daughter.
A polo tournament and gymkhana next week
will fill in the days betweeh the V.R.C. races.
Polo at this time of year attracts all the crack
country teams to the metrop., and the tournament
at Kooyong grounds promises to be a very
swagger event, apart from the gymkhana,
which eventuates at Moonee Valley racecourse.
The poloists, by the way, boast of their particular
dissipation that Kipling left it alone in his tirade
against other healthy sports. Nothing would
convince them that the bilious Rudyard didn’t
think anything at all about polo when he was
tirading. They have decided that he had polo in
his mind all the time, and singled it out for silent
praise.
The new quarters built for the night nurses in
the grounds of the Alfred Hospital were opened
on Thursday afternoon. President Fairbairn and
the Cawd Mayor had a crowd of doctors and their
wives, life governors and governesses, to back them
up. White-capped and clean-pinnied nurses made
a dainty fringe to the circle. Mrs. Mayor Burston
—who didn't entertain pugilist Johnson and his
wife, though an anonymous note sent round to the
newspaper offices said she did—was arrayed in
blue and white; and Dr. Connie Ellis was in
green. Mrs. President Fairbairn, Mrs. (Dr.)
Ewing, Mrs. (Dr.) O’Hara, Mrs. Jacoby and her
daughter, all staunch supporters of the Hospital,
were also present. Matron Ayres showed the
crowd round the new rooms set apart for the
day slumbers of the nurses who w'atch by
night. They will now rejoice in the luxury of “ a
room each,” with dainty furniture, including a
wardrobe with a “long mirror” —a luxury so new
to nurse’s quarters that it is questionable if she
will now go to bed at all, Afternoon tea was
served in the main building, much regret being
voiced at the forced absence of Ladj' Carmichael,
who takes a great interest in nurses and their
exhausting occupation.
And so the Upper Ten may bend its elbow in
peace and quietness up till midnight at the
Vienna without the haunting fear that the strong
arm of the Law will intervene and snatch the
bubbly water from parched lips. Certain of the
reasons for granting the license were amusing ;
but truly it is more than time that some of the
disabilities were lifted from the shoulders of the
unfortunate rich. In this uncivilised city, Dives
is not even allowed to motor over children without
being bothered with idiotic scraps of blue paper.
Of course, after submitting to the boredom of a
theatre, one requires something to sustain one’s
jaded nerves, though t\ie plebeian person in the
shilling place will probably talk some more rot
about there being one law for the gallery and one
for the circle!
The knot-tying of our only baronet’s chick
promises to be a fine theatrical display. Mrs.
Rupert arrives in Melbourne in May, which is the
month in which the Voice is to Breathe, and
subsequently papa goes to pick the tennis balls
and shoe-soles on his rubber plantation in the
Cannibal Islands somewhere. By the way, is it
the shadow of the forthcoming marriage that is
causing papa to retire somewhat abruptly from
the glare of notoriety, or is Rumor right for once
in saying that his convalescing steptnamma made
him promise that he would for the future dis-
appoint a censorious world by giving it nothing to
censor about ? For the last few months you
could not find a peccadillo in Rupert with a
microscope; day after day sees him sitting
quietly in his nook at the Athenaeum Club,
chastened, toned-down.
The yachtsmen of Port Phillip Bay want a
breakwater erected at Half Moon Bay, that ador-
able dent in the Port’s generous curves. The
Government has promised to pay%alf the cost if
the interested parties (yachtsmen, fishermen and
Black Rockers generally) will find the rest. So the
Black Rockers, who dwell on the cliffs above the
ti-tree-edged bay, instituted a carnival—a water
carnival—last Saturday afternoon and evening,
when every kind of craft, fancy or dog-plain,
dashed about in a toggery of flowers or glow-
lamps. As the management could scarcely fence
in the Bay and its ti-tree setting, badges were
sold for a bob or more (any old more) apiece, and
anyone spreading hjmself on the beach within
sight of the water-sports and not wearing a badge
was a marked man, stamped as one who wanted
to see a good show for nix, and too mean
to help his community in a good work.
Half-Moon Bay is one of the most charming
nooks in our harbor, and envious people who
foregather at Mosman and Parsley Bay and other
bits-de-luxe of Sydney Harbor had better look to
their laurels now that we have begun to display
some of the corners in Melbourne’s wide stretch
of briny.
The wraith of the Women’s Work Exhibition
made its final bow, the other day, when Trustees
Barrett and Williams, with Manager Heide,
gathered up the profit—a nice and tidy sum of
£soo—and laid it at Premier Murray’s feet with a
loud sigh of relief. The £5OO is to be invested in
a trust fund bearing the high-sounding name of
“ The Lady Northcote Economy Prizes Fund.”
The interest is to be paid each year to the Educa-
tion Department, and-is to be spent in prizes to
encourage State School girls to keep; the buttons
sewed on, and the milk from boiling over and
smudging the stove.
The departing Mooltan was littered with deck-
chairs branded with familiar Melbourne names.
Part-owner-of-the-Sayonara Newbigin went for a
six months’ jaunt to the big little island. The crew
of the Sayonara drank a farewell glass of joy-juice
with him at the Royal Yacht Club on Saturday.
Dr. Murray Morton, head-carver at St. Vincent’s
Hospital, also went abroad by the same boat, and
will keep his eyes wide open for hints to improve
the already up-to-date hospital. Mrs. Morton
accompanies her lord.
Another medico to visit the Cold Country very
soon is G. A. Syme. The quiet little surgeon has
been, among lots of other things, sawbones-in-
ordinary to the Police Hospital for over 20 years ;
and the “ bobbies ” are bustling round getting up
a “ presentation ” for him.
Architect Clarke, who returned by the Ortona,
has had a busy fly-round among the European
townships. In particular, he rummaged for
ideas in hospital construction; for he and
his brother have the planning of the new
Melbourne repairing depdt, and the city is
looking for big things. It is to be hoped that
amongst the many improvements, every-day
items like window-guards will not be forgotten.
Delirious men-patients are not a fair match for
an eight-stone nurse; and when the delirious
man-patient has a desire to jump out of a top
storey-window, such a figment as a protesting
nurse is brushed aside. What follbws isn’t good
for the patient, and in some cases it isn’t much
better for the shocked nurse.
A soiree, which is French for a tea-party or any
other old party, is to be given by the Alliance
Fran9aise, to say good-bye to Mr. Maistre, who
for some years past has been French Consul in
Melbourne, but departs for Paris next week. The
sacred rites, in which Mrs. Maistre will also be
honored, will be performed at the Independent
Hall on Monday night.
Nellie Veitch, who not only teaches the aspir-
ing mummer how to speak, but also how to train
every muscle the correct and most graceful way to
move, has left her hundreds of pupils for a length-
ened summer vacation. The dimpled Nellie
jaunts to England, for about the fiftieth time, for
breathing space and a fresh “eye.” The ever-
youthful lady says she is- never free from the
chaperoning eye of former girl pupils. Wherever
she wanders one or another pops up smiling at
the next table of some giddy cafe, with a reprov-
ing grown-up eye at her continuous youthfulness.
Cheltenham gave a party the other night; all
the township put on its best low-neck and its
dinner coat, and said good-bye to the Gerald
Weigalls, who go to peg their tent in Brighton.
Dr. Weigall has “doctored” in Cheltenham for
twelve years. The natives gave him a comfy oak
chair, and hung a necklet under Mrs. Weigall’s
chin, as parting gifts.
Jack London and his wife spent four days in
Melbourne, and every one of the four nights he
“blewed ”at the pantomime. “Jack and Jill”
attracted the sea-salt Jack for three of the four,
whereat the principals crowed and flapped their
wings over “Cinderella,” which caught the lion
for one night only. Her Majesty’s pantomime
is bristling with new points. The newest and
most eye-filling is a boost to the Australian navy.
Cute mixtures of cinematograph films and stage-
scenery show a placid sea with war boats and a
torpedo or two labelled darkly “ Made in Eng-
land.” The next scene is an imposing picture of
grim, grey battleships with a fine setting, suggest-
ive of a navy in the fading background; and a
brilliant legend electrifies this picture—“ Made
in Australia.” A song extols the Australian
Dreadnoughts.
A southerly buster has struck the Royal Yacht
Club amidships, with the result that now one half
the Club is not on vo-ho-ing terms with the other
half; also the Sayonara is to be put out of com-
mission, and very likely up for sale. A lot of the
trouble springs out of the cackle to the effect that
the Sayonara won the Cup not on account of the
way it was managed, but in spite of it; and the
skipper likes this cackle so little that he has got
the complaint which affected the camel, and says
he won’t be a, racing-captain any more. At the
Grand Hotel dinner, the atmosphere became some-
what frigid in spots, and the toast of the “Sayo-
nara Crew ” evoked a remark that only four of
the crew deserved any praise.
A select little few attended an “impromptu”
piano recital given by Victor Busst on Thursday
afternoon. The Australian pianist has been away
for some years, learning how to do it better from
Teichmuelier, De Greet and others in Leipsic.
The “ samples ” he spread out on this afternoon
made one want to hear more. His “ soft ” music—
especially a Saint Saens Etude —was like butter-
flies dancing on rose leaves, or fairies out for a pic-
nie. Victor is to give a more public exhibition
of the butterflies and the fairies next month.
Salome, the exponent of the “new dancing'"
(sometimes translated into “ nude dancing”), who
is hopping round at Melbourne Athenaeum, does
not deal much in voluptuous tragedy. She travels
mostly on her “ Agger, ” and drapes herself in a
few emeralds and diamonds (“suspenses” the
advertisement calls them—they must be, to the
Prims who come to criticise). The figure’s divine
if the dancing is tame. The character of the first
nights’ audiences was entertaining. There was a
surprisingly large number of women folk, with
bald-headed clubmen generously sprinkled through
the hall. It seemed, too, as if every Melbourne
pressman had got away from work to make sure
that the morals of his fair city were not about to
be corrupted.
A shoal of concert-goers drifted into the Masonic
Hall on Thursday evening to applaud the efforts
of Miss Elsie Berry, of the Henry Berry clan —
a golden-haired damsel who has yielded to the
call of London, and goes Fogwards in a week or
so to lift up her voice and capture the difficult
manager. The Carmichael people were to have
been present, but the death of the lady’s father
prevented them, and sundry other incidents
apparently prevented the attendance of most
of the other patrons whose names were
writ large on the programme. But most
of the audience had paid his 45., or less,
which patrons usually need not do, so the Benefit
should be a decided success financially. To a cer-
tain extent it succeeded artistically, but the
extent dragged itself out until after 11 o’clock, by
which time one lost patience with the kindly-
intentioned performers. The “ star ” attraction,
whose forte is self-consciousness, does the right
thing at the correctly-appointed time, and in the
strictly conventional manner, from an elocu-
tionist’s point of view ; but in the Sleep-walking
scene from Lady Macbefh, she would not cause
Ellen Terry to grab in sudden fear at her faded
laurel-wreath. A bright light in the programme
was the warbling of mercurial Miss Bull, who
gave another charming proof of what the pro-
fessional stage loses by not possessing her.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide
The Dudley Excellencies have been doing no end of ex-
ploration since they arrived in this dark State. They ran
across to Mount Barker the other day ; anon they flew
down to town, and his Ex. played cricket with the army,
while Lady Dudley dispensed some sympathy among the
orphanages. Another day they shook the hand of St.
Peter’s College ; and on yet another patted the head of
Prince Alfred’s hall of learning. At the latter place his
Excellency played cricket with the hoys, and would cheer-
fully have taken a hand at tops, only tops are not “in ”
just at present. Now Henry Dutton, of Anlaby, has un-
tethered the Adele, sent fivebutlers and ten footmen to
dust it down, and put it at the service of their Exes. ; and
with the Government steamer Governor Musgrave as
convoy, theyacht is steaming a g‘ay vice-regal party down
the Gulf to Kingscote and all the other Kangarooral
Island spots.
Kingscote, the chief village on “ the Island," did itself
proud on the eve the yacht anchored in its harbor.
Every wave had ribbons in its crest, and all the white
horses had their tails plaited. ifhere was a dinner party
at the Ozone, and a big reception afterwards, to which
not a mouse in those parts remained uninvited. An
address, clothed in purple -and fine language, found its
way into his Ex.’s pockets.
The Premier Prices have left the South-East., and have
betaken themselves to Victor Harbor for a while. Mr.
Price’s much-damaged health has been partially repaired,
and everybody hopes Victor Harbor will complete his
recovery at the rate of knots.
The School of Mines chivooed on Thursday night, when
President Bonython and various other officials made
speeches. The affair was in the nature of a commem.,
and the Lieutenant-Excellency, Chief Justice Way,
handed out compliments, fellowships, and diplomas to
crowds of boys and a girl or two. This school is vastly
versatile. It will teach you to make anything, from a
mountain to a molehill, from a bridge to a buttonhole.
Euby Boobier, in her mermaiden feats at the baths, has
lately been assisted by a pretty little Jeffries damsel
from Victor Harbor. On Thursday evening the two girls
gave an interesting exhibition of life-saving, in which the
fair-haired mermaid from Victor Harbor obligingly en-
deavored to drown, and the dark-locked Melbourne mer-
child obligingly prevented her. It was an illuminating
business, showing just how many different ways your
drowning brother may clutch you and drag you under
when you try to save him, and the proper thing for you
to do under those damp and distressing circumstances.
It chiefly suggested a new axiom to the inexpert dodger:
“ When about to save life, don’t.”
Will Ashton has invited the w'orld at large (on imposing
invitation cards) to come and see how much in £ s. d. it
thinks of him as a young man who paints seascapes,
almost to the sea-breezes, and gumtrees that you could
climb with very little help. The sacrifice will occur in
the Society of Arts Gallery, and the Lieutenant-Governor
will turn the key on March 1 in the presence of much
Intellect and some Prill. Afterwards, when the requisite
dross has found its way into his coffers, Ashton and his
wife will pack up fifteen easels, twenty-four palettes, one
thousand tubes of paint, sixty-five brushes, and an infant,
and move to the land of earthquakes and inspiration.
There has just died, at the age of 67, Mrs. Angas John-
son, widow of James Angas Johnson, who was a grand-
son of the original George Fife Angas. She was a kindly
dame, who took a vivid interest in the Children’s Hos-
pital and other goodly charities. One son is a well-
known medico, another hangs up his hat in the Apple
Isle, and another is on Yorke’s Peninsula. Also, there
are some daughters, one a widow of late Dr. Russell.
Also, just passed out is Walter James Francis, of the
Taxation Department, who was the son of the first
Director of Adelaide’s Botanic Gardens —very charming
and highly-educative gardens, even though we have to
say so ourselves.
Another who has taken the long journey is Dr.
Henderson, who helped to mend the inhabitants of Mt.
Lofty. He was an enthusiastic horticulturist, who took
a big and very practical interest in the orchard
industry which now flourishes like a writing master in
our little hills. When the codlin moth threatened
devastation some years ago, Dr. Henderson was a great
help in sooling the beastie off. He was a brother of John
Downer’s first wife.
Professor Stirling, who easily' carries the Chair of
Medicine at Adelaide ’Varsity, and is also First Lord of
the Museum, has just had the degree of Doctor of Science
forced on to him by Cambridge University. No doubt
Cambridge meant well; still this is the fuli title he now
has to support: Professor E. C. Stirling, C.M.G., M.A.,
M.D., D.Sc., F.R.S., F.R.C.S. He is a brother of Presi-
dent Stirling, of our House of Landlords, and is one of our
most valuable home-grown products.
Yours affectionately,
TARIFFINA.


Autumn Announcement at
PITT STREET HORDERNS.
CRAND OPENING EXHIBITION OF
AUTUMN AND WINTER NOVELTIES
on MONDAY MARCH Ist, 1909,
and following days.
£200,000 Worth of Novel and Smart
Designs of DRESS FABRICS in
SEDAN CLOTHS, CHARMEUSE CLOTHS,
MIXTURE SUITINGS, FANCY TWEEDS,
Etc., Etc.
EXCLUSIVE MODELS in STYLISH and
CONTINENTAL MILLINERY,
LINGERIE, BLOUSES, COSTUMES,
FURS, Etc., Etc.
Fashion Catalogues and Patterns of Dress
Materials forwarded Post Free to all Lady
Readers of The Bulletin throughout the
Commonwealth.
We always pay carriage to wherever The
Bulletin goes.
HORDERN' BROTHERS,
Sydney’s Leaders of Fashions,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT STREET,
and 422 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in—
THE DUCHESS OE DANTZTC
SATURDAY NEXT, FEB. 27—THE DAIRYMAIDS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling's.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING at 8,
Baroness Orczy’s Famous Romantic Play,
THE SCAKLET PIMPERNEL
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT. ..as...SIR PERCY BLAKENEY.
Miss BEATRICE DAY...as...LADY BLAKENEY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Missing; Friends.
HAMILTON J. OLSEN, Hazlton. Satis-
factory news for you upon communication
with Frank.
IF GEORGE DURNO WATSON, who left
London in the year 1882, landing in Sydney by
the sailing ship Darling Downs, and was visited
at his last known address, Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, by his brother Charles in the yes,r 1886,
will communicate with his sister, Mrs. Elizabeth
Ohren, Sunderland Road, Forest Hill, London,
he will hear of something to his advantage.
McILROY.
INFORMATION wanted by his nephew (J.
M. GORE, P.O. Box 15, Seattle, Washing-
ton, U.S.A.) of JOSEPH McILROY, of Co.
Antrim, Ireland, who settled in Ballarat (Vic.)
about 50 years ago.
Publications.
BOOKS OF INTEREST.
Dr. Norman Macleod’s “ Caraid nan Galdheal ”
(The Friend of the Gael). Choice readings .. 8/6
Mackenzie’s Beauties of Gaelic Poetry. 8/6
The Centenary Osslan. (The best ed. of Ossian).. 6/-
Lyra Celtlca. (A fine collection of Celtic poetry).. 7/-
Campbell’s Popular Tales of the West High-
lands, 4 vols • • 25/-
The History of the Cameron Clan, rox. bg. .. 27/-
Mackenzle’s History of the Macleods, rox. bg... 27/-
Flona Macleod’s Shorter Stories, 3 vols. .. 4/-
Posted Free at Above Prices. Catalogues Free.
NORMAN MACLEOD
(Publisher),
25 GEORGE IV. BRIDGE, EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
Government Advertisement.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT ACT.
Boree Creek
BRANA LAND
DISTRICT.
Estate
THE part of the Boree Creek Estate, recently
purchased by the State Government, has
been subdivided into
30 FARriS,
and will become
available for applications
on
22nd fIARCH, 1909,
under the provisions of the Closer Settlement
Acts. The farms range in area from 500 acres to
663 acres, and in value from £2067 to £2900 ; the
average area being about 568 acres, and average
value £2392
Eull particulars and directions for applying,
together with Lithographs and descriptions of the
various farms, may be obtained free of cost on
application, by post or otherwise, to any Crown
Land Agent in New South Wales, or the infor-
mation Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney.
The Estate is situated in the Urana Land Dis-
trict and is distant 14 miles from Lockhart—the
present terminus of the Rock-Lockharc railway
line (a branch of the Great Southern Railway).
The approved line from Lockhart to Clear Hills
will, when constructed, pass about one mile from
the southern portion of the Estate, where it has
been decided to erect the Boree Creek Station.
Lockhart is situated 356 miles from Sydney.
The average rainfall at the homestead, which is
about a mile from the land acquired for the last
11 years is 16'75 inches ;at Lockhart, for 22
years it is 18 inches. There is a very good water
supply in tanks and dams, the catchment areas
are good, and" the soil is of an excellent holding
character. . ~,
The climate is good and very healthy.
The land as a whole is gently undulating to fiat,
eminently suited for wheat, oats, and mixed
farming with some particularly good orchard
country ; whilst for breeding and fattening it is
first-class. . , .. ,
Terms -—5 per cent, deposit; balance (including
principal'and interest at 4 per cent.) in annual
payments of 5 per cent., spread over a period ot
thirty-eight years. . , - ~
Persons who lodge applications for any of the
farms referred to herein will be allowed a refund
of half the rail fare paid by them on their visit ot
inspection, and on any journeys they may require
to make to appear before the Land Board in con-
nection with their application. Successful appli-
cants, their families, and such belongings, including
live stock, as were in their possession immediately
prior to the making of the application for land,
will be carried at half rates, provided that, in the
case of live stock, it be not more than sufficient
for the land acquired. Persons desirous of obtain-
ing concessions in respect of railway fares may
obtain a form from any Crown Land Agent in the
State, which must be given to the Railway Station-
master when obtaining a ticket, or, if unable to
obtain a form, must ask the Railway Station-
master to take their name and address, amount
paid, and number of ticket.
Robert McDonald,
[5E3] Under-Secretary for Lands,
Amusements.
CR | TERION TH EATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell & Gunn Season.
Managing- Directors : Clyde Meynell & John Gunn.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEBRUARY 27,
Reappearance of the Distinguished Actor,
HARCOURT BEATTY,
and FAREWELL TO AUSTRALIA of
MADGE McTNTOSH
in Revival of the Famous Drama,
JIM THE PENMAN.
PRICES—Ss., 35,, and Is. Plan at Elvy’s
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessees : Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell & Gunn.
GRAND DRAMATIC SEASON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8,
The Latest Dramatic Success,
THE OLD POLKS AT HOME.
Cast headed bv MTSS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY
and CONWAY WINGFIELD.
Box Plan on view at Elvy’s. Popular Prices— 3s., 2s. & Is.
-j- H E LY C EUM HALL, SYDNEY.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
RE-OPENS AT THE MATINEE THIS COMING
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 27,
Closing after the Saturday Night, till Matinee,
SATURDAY, MARCH 6,
and Continuing as Heretofore.
ew USUAL ATTRACTIONS AND PRICES.
YH E GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
“Back to the 'Nd Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES, 1
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
Ov O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Brilliant and Elaborate First Part, BONNIE SCOTLAND.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, World’s Incomparable Juggler.
MR.' JAY W. WINTON and M’GINTY.
GEOFFREY and BENSON, Comedy Artists.
Great Success of LAWSON and NAMON.
M ACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette.
MR. CHARLES FANING, THE TWO PRICES.
Mr. ANDY ROBERTS, MISS NELLIE MAUNSEL.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
PERA H O U S E, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
OISSIE CURLETTE, Quaint Comedy Vocalist.
STROSS and FELLOWS, Instrumentalists.
GRAHAM and DENT, in One-Act Comedy, “The
Power of the Idol.”
YEOTHA and CAPT. G. GRADE, Sharpshooters.
J. W. ItICKABY, Character Burlesque Comedian.
THE LATONAS, American Vaudeville Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. g&"' PRICES—3s, 2s (id, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
I_J ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
H Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, afc 7.45,
MR J C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
p , inf.indpc HI'".LIT GILBERT, STELLA GASTELLE,
ALMA BARBER,AI. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHINE,
and VICTOR LOV DALL.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices aanaual.
RING’S TH E A TRE, MELBOURNE.
ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS OF
MR WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation,
in
my partner,
Specially Reconstructed by Mr. Walter Baker.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE,
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices —55,, 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at AHan's.
mmrm h E GL AC lARIUM, MELBOURNE.
I Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays
J.&IS.TAIT'S
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan s.
w
A,
IRTH’S OLYMPI
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES THE B^ T ALL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WESTS
PICTURES. West s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box plan at Glen ’ s '
ON THE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale —2/6 ; Postage, N.S. W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
J
Dollond’s
Binoculars.
There are other Binocular?,
but absolutely none to
possess the improvements
seen in the Dollond—
although you may pay a
higher price.
Dollond’s Prismatic
Binoculars are appreciably
less in thickness—are ab-
solutely dust and damp
proof, and can be cleaned
without any risk of dis-
turbing the adjustments.
They give twice the field
of vision obtained with the
ordinary field glasses.
PRICE - - £7 to £*.
JERDAN’S
(formerly Osborn &. Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Agents for Dollonds, Opticians to the King and His Majesty’s Government,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
<* i
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE.
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/* post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES —ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN Sf CO., P'ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
If YOU WANT A MOUSTACHE
and find a difficulty in growing one, there is no better
preparation than CAPILLARINE. It will produce
a long, flowing moustache quicker than anything. It is un-
detectable in use, and certain in results. For over 25 years it
has o-iven complete success, and will do so in your case.
* ° TRY IT NOW.
PRICE 10/0 a JAR.
Post free in plain wrapper to any address in the world.
CRAI6 & AITKEN, 654 Ccorge St., Sydo«V
Established 25 Years.
Owing to the protests of sundry residents
of Doctors’ Commons, Melbourne, the eastern end
of Collins-street threatens to become respectable
after 8 p.m., and Florence the Peripatetic is in
process of being moved on. The natural result of
the late crusade against the “landladies” of
Venus has been the same as when the tobacco
shop of Ikey Mo is closed—he goes to look for
business on the pavement. Ikey can be hunted
off the pavement on to his lawful plying-ground,
the racecourse, though he can only be completely
suppressed by being superseded by the tote. Un-
fortunately, authority has not devised any substi-
tute for Florence the Persistent, wherefore when
she is bumped out of her recognised place of re-
ception she pervades Collins-street; and when
the Law chivies her from there she parades
Bourke-street or Spring-street, or some other
alley. Presently she may take to pervading
Toorak—the law is a scarce quantity out that way
o’ nights—and then authority will be sorry it in-
terfered with her.
“ The Traveller,” on another phase of
Tait’s railways :
Sometimes lately I have had fears that Tait’s Victorian
enginemen were giving away at the top. Two trains meet
at a country station. The engines stop opposite each
other, regardless of where the carriages may be. The
drivers begin throwing their tools at each other. Then
the firemen heave their coal shovels and other parapher-
nalia about. The men then leap on to each other's en-
gines, make a few mystic signs, point frantically to their
respective coal bunkers, argue some more, take a few
notes, and then each rushes on with what was the other
fellow’s train.
At Flinders-street a suburban engine stands, appa-
rently unconcerned, for a moment or two. Then another
suburban locomotive rushes up alongside. The same
process as in the country, only more so, takes place. One
engine then dives over the viaduct towards Spencer-
street, while the other shoots back on to a suburban train,
and rushes off, with the driver and fireman getting their
now untidy, tool-strewn house in order, watching signals,
and doing all their other work at the same time.
All tnis looks like an outbreak of lunacy ; but it’s
merely another of Tait’s institutions, and is done “with
a view to economy.” When “ changing over” each driver
has to see that his kit of tools is complete to the last
item ; his coal must be measured, and the exact amount
of coal left in the bunker given a receipt for by the
other driver ; the condition of the engines, with defects,
if any (and Tait engines are rarely without defects nowa-
days) must be noted ; the time of “change over” must
be accurately recorded by each man ; and a dozen other
rules and regulations must be obeyed. Five minutes is
allowed for the lot!
Some time the rushed-about, regulation-laden engine-
man will miss a signal or something, and get the sack.
Perhaps a few hundred people may be killed. But, what-
ever happens, Tait’s system must not be blamed. Blame
whatever else you lilie—Tait’s system must not be im-
pugned. It is the Ark of the Covenant, beyond argu-
ment and above reproach.
The morning papers the other day raised
this confused cry of anguish :
T OST, Indian, wearing blue sweater, straw hat,
-Li broken crown ; seen Lonesomehurst last Wednes-
day. Send 14 Blank-street, Blankhurst. Reward.
As a rule, The Bulletin isn’t profoundly inter-
ested in strayed aliens ; but there is a fascinating
air of mystery about this aimless savage who is
wandering at large in a blue sweater and a broken
crown. Who is sitting in the house at 14 Blank-
street, waiting for its Indian to be brought home
in a crate, like an arrested fowl? The simple
direction to “send” the undesirable back suggests
that it is a trusting, docile beast that may be
decoyed into a trap with a dish of curry. The
amount of the reward is not stated, and, as it
probably isn’t, large, the unemployed are not
likely to pursue colored persons with stolen
clothes-lines, on the off-chance of lassoing the
right stray animal.
“Machete” reports an incident of “the
outposts ”
Mention in the papers of the visit of a New Caledonian
detective to Australia in connection with escaped con-
victs, recalls the fact that in 1906 the same detective
spent some time in Papua mustering his “lambs” there.
For years Papua was a haven of refuge to escapees from
New Caledonia ; and after the French Government had
declined on one occasion to pay the expenses of a batch
which were returned by Governor McGregor, that re-
doubtable old economist refused to molest them.
Following upon that, here is a page of Papuan history
which has never appeared in the published Papuan
Reports, though the writer (for the very good reason that
he was personally concerned in it) can vouch for its
accuracy. One afternoon in May, 1905, the R.M. at
Tamota, on the Mamba, was informed by the natives
that a boat, full of white men, was coming up the
river. When they landed from a roughly-built 18ft.
decked boat, they turned out to be six Frenchmen. One
of them said his name was Henri Cartier, and, after a
little fencing, he admitted that he and his companions
had escaped from New Caledonia. He had a French
chart with him, and on it he showed the writer his
course. .
They had been working in a cobalt mine, and, being
under ticket-of-leave, had built their boat bit by bit in
the forest. Loading her up with tinned stuff from the
mine stores, they ran straight before the trades, striking
Papua at a mission station. They were in dire straits for
food, hut had money, and the Laborer in the Vineyard,
noting their starving condition, sold them mission stores
for good hard cash. .
From the .missionary they inquired the direction of the
goldfields, and he told them to run up the coast to the
Mamba. After six days in the great river, they arrived,
famished, at Tamota. Here, since they were not the sort
of folk to let loose among a rather truculent native popu-
lation, they were arrested under the good old “Vag.,”
and held until the then Governor should arrive.
When the Governor arrived he did rather an unex-
pected thing. He decided, after changing bis mind a
dozen times, to provision the queer craft, and turn it,
with its crew, to go whither the wind and the Devil
listed. Some maps and old police sniders were supplied,
and with their queer little craft, loaded to the gunwale
with police rations, the adventurous six were shooed off
up the unknown north-east coast. What became of them
the deuce only knows, and though the writer afterwards
made earnest inquiry after them, the local natives assured
him that they had not landed there. The New Cale-
donian detective’s visit was probably a result of this
affair.


THE “NUGGET” POLISHES
DOUBLE THE LIFE OF YOUR BOOTS,
AND ARE NOW
MADE. IN AUSTRALIA
By Australian Labor.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout,
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated 'Waters and Cordials.
i
| WHAT IS CATARRH?
is inflammation ofthe lining membrane
) of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs: it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell: the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi , Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send T*n Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4 months' treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st,, Melbourne.
ing's Norton
cartridges
In Miniature Rifle Range Shooting
you’ll have no fouled rifles or cartridge
troubles if you use these cartridges.
They are sold by all Ammu-
nition vendors—long and
short Rifle and hollow point
Sporting bullets—either with
black or smokeless powder.
I BRITISH MAhE
Agents •
COLONIAL
ammunition
CO.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
& Sohn,
A. G,
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
Heliar-
Camera
1 PLATE.
SUITABLE FOR TROPICAL CU MATES.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 CEORCE STREET, near C.P.0., SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “Talking 1 with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc,), post free. [3
A HUGE SUCCESS !
gfaßiMßaai^Ss3
BIRDS
Snags
Bird’s
Custard U)ith snut
The delicious Fruits of New
South Wales,when stewed, form an
exquisite Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD,
served either hot or cold. Most popular
with Adults and the Youthful alike.
o
6
Q
&
o
i
si
n
as
The acreage under crop in Australia averages
about 9,126,000 acres.
Nine tenths of it is plowed by Horse Power,
and at an average cost of not less than 7\- per
acre, or a total annual cost of £2,874,950.
Half of what is now ploughed by Horse Power
should be ploughed by Engine Power at a cost
as low as 2\3 per acre under favourable con-
ditions, and averaging not to exceed 4\- per acre.
If this work were done by Engine Power, the
saving at 31- per acre on one half the average
acreage would equal the enormous annual show-
ing of £616,000.
Are you interested in cutting out your portion
of this waste?
If so, remember that “Buffalo” Engines are
this year ploughing more acres in Australia than
all other makes combined—
That they are doing it with great satisfaction
and profit to their users—
That, power for power, they are sold at lower
prices than any other engine—
That they can be bought on terms, so easy
that they practically earn their own payments
before they require to be made—
That they possess sound advantages over other
engines —
That they can be profitably used not only for
ploughing but for many other
kinds of farm work requiring to
be done throughout the year—
That we can PROVE through
satisfied users every word we
have said for them herein.
International Harvester
Company of America
(.Incorporated)
200 Roma St., Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney,
545 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Bank St, Adelaide. 75 York St, Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & Co., Perth,
General Agents for Western Australia.
(259)
Keen buyers
\ should send to
»\ us tor list of 2nd
hand Engines
(Oil & Steam) replaced
by “Buffalos.”
w Large Stock.
Great Variety.
\ Low Prices, k
•t
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and’to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comfortin' 3- in allayin' 3- Irritation,
in the Ihroat and giving Strength to the Voice, a*d it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become & chromc nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient and a complete
cure is certain. ’
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. a HEARIME,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


AUSTRALIAN
MEDICAL
HOUSEHOLD
LIBRARY.
458
LINIMENTS.
LINIMENT, NO. 8.
A liniment which will often ease the suffering of the most painful con-
ditions. It produces a peculiar, icy-cold feeling at first, which is afterwards
replaced by a sensation of warmth.
LINIMENT, No. 9.
Salicylic Acid ... Half a drachm
Methylated Spirit to make Six tablespoonfuls
A liniment which is particularly effective in many cases of muscular
rheumatism of the back.
LINIMENT, No. 10.
Hydrate of Chloral ... ... ... Half an ounce
Liniment of Soap Six tablespoonfuls
A liniment which will frequently succeed in relieving various painful
conditions, especially when the muscular parts are principally affected.
LINIMENT, No. 11.
Ether
Spirit of Camphor
Tincture of Opium
(Laudanum)
Tincture of Capsicum
of each >
One tablespoonful
A specially valuable liniment for the relief of hysterical pain in the
side
LINIMENT, NO. 12.
Spirit of Rosemary One tablespoonful
Spirit of Lavender to make Four tablespoonfuls
A sweet-smelling, pleasant liniment for ladies. May be employed with
advantage in neuralgic and muscular pains.
THE PRESS
COMMENTS
recently published': on this page were written
on the publication of the first edition of the
Illustrated Australian Medical Guide.
The edition which The Bulletin offers
you is a revised and extended issue, con-
taining over fifty pages of new and important
matter, materially adding to the value of the
book.
One of the features of the publication was
the number of Mixtures, Liniments, Fomen-
tations and Ointments given in Vol. 11.,
and to these the author has added all the
remedies which in the interim have been
included in the pharmacopoeia.
They are not experiments in medicine,
but prescriptions tested and proved invalu-
able in the daily practice of our best
physicians. The directions for their use are
so explanatory that there can be no possi-
bility of their being misunderstood.
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
... 1-! '
Free for
60
IN THE BUSH THESE BOOKS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MUCH SUFFERING.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
1909.
To the Manager ,
THE BULLETIN Office , SYDNEY.
Please forward me the following Medical
Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
The Illustrated Australian Medical Guide, 2 Vo Is. ... £3
The Attainment of Health ... O
The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants ... O
Postage ... ... O
3 O
10 6
2 6
5 O
£4 10
I remit herewith Sixty Shillings, for which you undertake to forward the above works complete, carefully packed,
and post free. I am, yours etc.,
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name.
Address


KALYEOR
THE
FOI - SKID
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
The American Grand Prix,. and the American
Grand Prix for Voiturettes were won on Michelin Tyres.
A subsidiary trial run must not be confused with the
Grand Race itself.*
“F.C.” reminisces:—
The dismantling' of Melbourne’s City Courthouse, in
Latrobe-street, contiguous to the gaol and adjacent to
the Working Men’s College, revives memories of the Law’s
earlier habitations in Victoria. The first Supreme Court
was held by Justice Willis, in a structure that had been a
barn —and still looked like one—near Batman’s Hill,
where the railway yards now are. After that a move was
made to a building in Bourke-street West, now the site of
a police station. In ’42, after much argument, the
foundation stone of the building now being demolished
was laid, Gipps being Governor of Australia Felix, Latrobe
Superintendent, and Willis Judge of the “Territory.”
The population made a note of the occasion, even going
to the length of proceshing with much ceremony from the
old Court House to the site of the new one, and taking a
general holiday. Though Willis decorated the proceed-
ings he never sat on that Bench, being recalled to
Sydney, apparently owing to his hasty temper and his
habit of getting into holts with the Bar. Jeffcott was the
first law-dispenser there ; and after him came a long suc-
cession of brilliant legal lights—a’Beckett, Stawell,
Barry, Williams, and Robert Molesworth. That
lasted till the present Supreme Court buildings were
opened. Of late years the Petty Sessions have been held
there instead of in the ramshackle ruin alongside the
Town Hall, which is also in process of being replaced by
additions to the City Hall. Before Barry, Williams and
Molesworth gave place to Magistrates Call and Panton,
they heard some notable cases in that stone building—
the Learmohth v. Bailey mining claims, the Kelly Gang
trial, the murder charge against Mount and Morris (for
blackbirding on the brig Carl), and the case against
Wallace and co., for stealing the steamer Ferret. The
Bar that addressed the Bench in those years included
B. 0. Aspinall, Dick Ireland, T. H. Fellowes, Dawson, and
Wilberforce Stephen.
A WHOLESOME REMEDY.
“Guaranteed Under the Foods and Drugs
Act, 1906, U.S.A.”
Every bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
sold in the United States of America, bears an
0”
DIRECTIONS
a»U3T».iil i nfcn
CtnUMKOI tlbu wmt
INDIAN ROOT
PIUS
extra label with the num-
ber of the certificate and
the word “Guaranteed,”
which denotes that the
Proprietors guarantee that
Dr. Morse’s Indian Hoot
Pills contain nothing that
is not in strict accordance
with the Food and Drugs
Act. It is further guaran-
teed that Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills comply
with the regulations of the
Department of Health both
as to the standard of purity
of the drugs used in their
manufacture, and also that
they are a good wholesome
remedy for the purposes
for which they are adver-
tised.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are based on a good,
sound formula, and are not advertised as a great
cure-all. For the little ills of life, for people who
eat too much and drink too much and get their
digestive organs, their blood, liver and kidneys out
of order, they are a valuable remedy, and are sold at
a price within the reach of all. As a matter of
fact they cost more to put up than most of the
medicines on the market which are sold at 2s. 6d.
and 2s. 9d., and anyone who pays Is. and Is. 3d.
for a bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for
the common ailments for which they are adver-
tised gets good value for his money. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and
a sure remedy for biliousness, constipation, indi-
gestion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils, and blotches,
and for all female ailments.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Mestre. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Arnst is on the war-path. He will not stay at
home, resting on his title till some one conies along to
wrest it from him, but will go forth and drag it in front
of possible aspirants. Barry has been challenged, and so
has Durnan ; and both these gentlemen have the chance
of their lives. Provided, they offer a reasonable amount
for expenses—about £2OO is mentioned by Arnst—he will
go half-way round the world, dragging his title with him,
to give them the opportunity of winning it from him.
Of course, Arnst is out after the dollars, and sitting on
the championship in the cool shades of willow-bordered
Avon, in Christchurch, does nothing to swell his banking
account, whereas raging through Britain and Canada in
search of scalps will. So Arnst will rage accordingly.
* * » »
Big Ben Thoroughgood has collected the stake
for his match with Pearce, and has overcome all difficul-
ties ; so that the match will now take place some time
during May, and on the Parramatta River. Pearce is a
good oarsman, and the match will throw still more light
on the problem of how much show the good little man
has with the good big man. So far, Fortune has sided
mostly with the good big man, and seems to love muscle
and plenty of it.
• * * *
The valuable Futurity Stakes at Caulfield,
which has several times foreshadowed the result of the
Newmarket, ended in a great struggle between Soultline,
Irishman, and the imported King Berry. Backers of re-
cent “ form ” found the pea in three instances ; for both
Flavinius in the Woodcliff and Salvia in the Hawksburn
had made friends on the previous Saturday. But it
was the Futurity race that set the seal on “form’s”
reputation. Nothing at the weights had a chance
against Soultline. (on paper) save Irishman —assum-
ing that the son of tlavoc could stay.seven furlongs—
and two or three of the dark horses, of which King
Berry carried most money. If Irishman could stretch
Soultline’s neck at a difference of 131 b., he was bound to
become a hotter favorite than ever for the Newmarket,
where he will meet the. crack flyer on a stone better
terms. The three-year-old did more than stretch the
neck of his conqueror. He ran him to half a head, with
King Berry only half a length behind, and Parsee the
nearest of the rest. Therefore, if “ form ” is to receive
further vindication at Flemington, the horse that won
the Oakleigh Plate (5J furlongs) and nearly w'on the
Futurity Stakes (7 furlongs), will do the trick, or nearly
do it, in the 6 furlongs flutter next Saturday.
There are others in the Newmarket, including
some that have not yet tried conclusions with “form,”
as well as the lot that have lately been tested in public,
and were, apparently, found wanting. Maltine is said to
be very dangerous, likewise Curtain Lecture,'backed by
Rupert Clarke and Co. as though nothing could beat
it. Bub when the excellence of the popular favorites has
been so well proven as is the case this year, no reasoning
tipster cares to look beyond them for the winner. 1 Better
to trust the good things you do know than the good
things you don’t know. Taking Soultline, Scotland,
Parsee, Maltine, Irishman, Curtain Lecture, Dhobi, and
King Berry as the pick of the field for the Newmarket,
the present writer guesses that Irishman will beat King
Berry, Soultline, and Parsee, the last being,. perhaps,
theinost attractive investment at the price.
The Australian Cup, always an interesting long
race for sig’htseers, and likely to be an exciting event this
year, will come to pass on Tuesday, the second day of the
V.R.C. Autumn meeting. Saturday’s racing will show
whether Lord Nolan is going to start at the head of the
quotations for the 2J miles journey ; but, anyway, the
Melbourne Cup winner has a fair weight (Sst. 51b.) to
carry, considering that older horses have been well treated
by the handicapper. Delaware, Neith, Perkeo, Golden
Slipper, Proceeder, Seddon, Lady Diffidence, Pendel and
Curtain Lecture are in it at time of writing, and one or
more of them might beat Lord Nolan. The winner may
be Seddon.
A likely winner at Flemington is lolaire, who
will certainly improve on his two bad performances at
Caulfield. Another one worth considering is Legation.
* * * iv
The Yankee is becoming perturbed over the
success of the negro in the square “ ring.” There are 72
millions of white men, and only eight millions of blacks,
in the U.S.A., and yet the number of clever colored
boxers is out of all proportion to their population basis.
Why? And in the answer the fountains of the great
yabber are broken up, and the windows of talk opened,
and it rains reasons and conjectures from about 40,000
newspapers. The general impression seems to be that
the white bruiser gets swelled head before the colored
one. In fact, he gets it before he has learned
his business thoroughly, whereas it is only when
he has become “ a scientist,” like Jack Johnson
and other great men, that the negro begins to inquire for
9J in bats. There may be something in it, for the average
boxer with a white skin has a fearful and wonderful
opinion of himself. He certainly does receive suggestions
from fighters whom he has superseded with a contemptu-
ous affability at the best. Sometimes he resents them in
another way. But, all the same, writer’s opinion is quite
different. The black man is still the child of Nature,
closer to the earth. He is handier to the period when man
had to rely for his defence upon his own physical powers.
The white man has passed that stage. He slays his
enemies with projectiles ; and the more scientific he
becomes the more unsuited, naturally', to put up a battle
for life with his teeth, claws and feet. Boxing is, after
all, a barbaric business, inasmuch as it is the airt of
pounding an opponent into submission by brute force.
Brute force, scientifically applied, if you like; but,
nevertheless, brute force. And in the white man’s blood
the idea is to apply' not physical force, but mechanical
power. Therein lies the difference between the two races,
and naturally' the race that is closest to the stage in
which man fought for his life with his hands, feet and
teeth, will produce the larger proportion of boxers.
« * * *
Although James Jeffries is still assuring his
friends that he has no intention of fighting Johnson, it is
significant that he has started to train, and to train in a
way that augurs he intends to tackle somebody really big.
The ostensible reason is that he is going to take part in
some theatrical show in which there will be soipe spar-
ring | but the solid work Jimmy has got down to would
be quite unnecessary' for the sort of show he is going to
take part in. Among fight-followers it is whispered that
James is really testing himself. He is deplorably'
out of condition, has got fat inside, and knows
it. But if, after six weeks or so of train-
ing-, he feels that he is getting good, and his
progress indicates that he can get back to bis former
state of toughness, he will one day emerge from his shell,
and fling his glove across the continent and the Atlantic
to wherever Johnson is starring in the limelight. The
general opinion among pugs of all sorts is “if Jef. can
get back to condition ’’Massa Jongson will climb between
the ropes before 10 rounds are through. The Bulletin
doesn’t think so. Johnson may not be a heroic fighter,
but he knows enough to keep the ex-boilermaker at bay
for 10 rounds. It is after the 10th that he will probably
begin to go to pieces, as his thin, spidery ankles,
which are far from being in proportion to his weight, will
begin to give out if he is hustled at all during the first
half. And when any part of him begins to go, judging
by the shape of the back of his head, he’ll collapse like
the one-horse shay.
* ’ * * »
Having recovered his middleweight champion-
ship, Stanley Ketchel retires from the middleweight
division, relinquishes his title, and enters on the track
that leads to either extinction or the world’s champion-
ship. His first fight will probably be with Kauffman.
Papke, who talked of retiring from pugilism for
ever when Ketchel slugged him out, pulled himself
together to keep his engagement with Hugo Kelly. But
his luck was right out, and owing to sickness he was only
able to train for six days to meet a man in the pink of
condition. It was this fact that induced Kelly to go after
him immediately the gong sounded; and, getting to
Papke, he climbed all over him, and closed his right eye in
short order. But Papke, in his agony, managed to land
one where it told, and Kelly was down for nine seconds.
Reassuming the perpendicular, it was evident that Kelly
was in a bad way. Papke went after him again and once
more stretched him out. But Kelly came up within
time, very groggy indeed, and hung on for his life. While
hanging on he managed to catch Papke a bad one over
the left eye, which nearly closed up Papke’s remaining
searchlight. Kelly saw a gleam of hope. If he
could only avoid the knock-out till that twinkler
finally closed, the game was won. So then he fled
before the face of Papke, but Papke pursued
him so swiftly—he, too, could feel that solitary
view-finder going rapidly—that IJelly had to stand up
and mix it. At last the eye closed right up, and Kelly
stood in close to finish the butchery. But Papke, vicious
though blinded, rained his blows so fast and quickly that
Kelly got as-much as he gave. When Kelly hauled off,
Papke tore his eye open, located Kelly, and rushed him.
Then began one of the most sensational fights ever seen
in Yankeeland—the blind bruiser pursuing the other one,
and holding his own. At the end of 25 rounds referee
Jeffries stopped the scrap and declared it a draw, amidst
thunders of applause.
* * * *
“Snell”: A rampageous battle happened at
Melb. Athletic Club’s room, when Grimm, the uproarious
Italian, met Syd Russell, and was beaten on points, after
20 riotous rounds, throughout which Grimm swooped
persistently like the squealing eagl,e of his adopted land,
and smote nothing with both hands and a bellow sug-
gestive of nineteen Roman barrel-organists howling
unanimously for fish fried in oil. Regarded as a fight,
this was the worst of its kind since the immemorial time
when somebody struck Buckley, and if pug-fanciers go on
permitting the wild man from Chicago to exhibit his
capacity for being smitten horribly in the stomach
and punched brutally on the nose, the “ game,”
will deserve all the Nonconformist Conscience can
allege against it. Russell won on points, which was as
everybody expected, since Grimm has nothing to com-
mend him but his inability to be outed with a mallet.
* * * *
Another fight of a totally different complexion
raged when Ed. Williams met Jim Griffin for a second
test at the Melbourne Cyclorama. This was a clean,
cleverly-boxed, neatly-finished, scientific exhibition. The
in-fighting methods, lately introduced, which made a
boxing match resemble two wet eels embracing each other
in a basket, were repudiated, and Williams’ cleverness
and the stun ning punch that lurks in his left elbow landed
him a decisive winner After six rounds. During the fifth
and sixth Griffin spent much time inspecting the floor,
but he fought as hard and as gamely as a man could when
up against a superior force, and would have gone on doing
it had not his seconds floated the white flag over his
prostrate form.
*■***■
Last Saturday was a golden day for Victorian
yachting, and the St. Kilda Club found it simply magni-
ficentfor its open competition. Nine boats, assisted by a
light southerly, had a great chance to show their
qualities. Fidena, the first off the mark, was generally
favored, and eventually won. This boat’s excellent
sailing qualities, especially in the beat down from
the north-west to the south-west buoys, where
it sailed like a poem, were particularly convincing,
apart from the judgment displayed aboard. Eric,
another nice boat, seemed to have secured second place,
but, having the misfortune to carry away its big jib, lost
way and was overhauled and passed by S.J.S., and later
by Uira. The actual finish was, therefore : Fidena, shr.
13min. 21sec., first; S.J.S., ohr. 18min. 58sec., second;
Uira, 6hr. 20min. 31sec., third ; and Eric, shr. 20min.
35sec., fourth. Correcting, however, for time allowances,
the order worked out at Fidena, 1; 5.J.5.,2; Eric, 3 ;
and Uira, 5. The Ada occupied fourth place.
* * * *
Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron is degenerating
into a social club. On Saturday last the Rawson
Cup drew only two competitors, and one of these,
it is alleged, had to be persuaded considerably to
enter, and thus make a contest of a sort. So the Rawson
Cup degenerated into a match between the A wan ui and
the Petrel, the former conceding 12 minutes to its baby
antagonist. In the fair, southerly breeze Petrel’s chance
was hopeless against Mr. Saxton’s flyer, which, crowding
on enough canvas to have moved a White Star liner, sim-
ply flew through the water, leading from the start, and
finishing with 9min. 12sec. to the good over and above
the time allowance.
However, the apathy that has fallen on the
Royal Yacht Squadron is merely a local trouble. It does
not extend to the P.A.Y.C., or to the open-boat sailing,
both of which are booming and well patronised by the
public. Although Saturday served up a wet afternoon
and about 16 different samples of discomfort, the crowd
following the open-boat racing was almost as big as on a
fine afternoon. Sydney Amateur Club ran off two
events, and the Flying Squadron served up two heats
and a final; the Dingy Club gave a race for 10-footers,
and the Balmain Amateur Club finished its long
struggle for the Vice-President’s trophy, which fell to
Mr. Young’s Roette, with Vera and Grace Darling second
and third. The Flying Squadron’s triangular contest
was keen enough, but the winners got home by fairly
large margins. Still, your open boater likes a close finish.
Scot won the first heat, with Livonia second ; and Lilian
came home in the second, with Ben-my-Chree next. In
the final, Livonia romped in first, with Zena second and
Lilian third —a gap of 92sec. between first and second
boats. The open-boat sail-follower, reckons that is dead-
slow. He likes a margin of half a second.
* * * *
The heavy rain that fell on Saturday last in
Sydney drove the cricketers from the pitch, and the
matches were accordingly decided on the previous Satur-
day’s performances. University and Paddington won on
the first innings from Gordon and Balmain respectively,
while the engagements between Burwood-Glebe, Peter-
sham-Sydney, Central Cumberland-North Sydney, and
Redfern-Middle Harbor resulted in draws. This is pro-
bably a record of draws for many a year. The result is
that Glebe still tops the competition list with 16 points,
Waverley follows with 12, Central Cumberland with
eight, and Uni., six. After that the figures dwindle away
to Gordon a decade below zero.
Hitherto the cricketer has had a good time in
Sydney, being allowed the free run of the parks. In
some cases the councils have erected dressing pavilions,
and fenced off ovals for the players, while outside the
charmed circle the boy with the bat and ball has made it
mighty dangerous to wander round considering the pro-
blem of the universe, and things like that. The public ; s
beginning to complain that the cricketers get too much
consideration, and that there is a difference between en-
couraging healthy sport and giving the cricketer a mono-
poly of the suburban parks on Saturday afternoons. It is
contended that the storm of cricket balls is a menace to
young children, and that the cricketers show an arrogant
spirit. On the other side, it is argued that the young
children have the parks to themselves all the rest;
of the week, and that the youth and growing
lad should be allowed to exercise their muscles
at least on Wednesday and Saturday afternoons.
The cricketer also asks where are the records of wounded
or injured babies ; to which the reply is that their cus-
Midi an s are compelled to vacate the parks when the
cricketer is raging abroad. The best solution seems to be
to reserve certain parts of the parks for the children and
their custodians, and mark off the. portion beyond which
the cricketer may not rage. But it is a vexed question,
and without a doubt the Ma capital owes its cricketing
supremacy to the facilities for practice which the big
parks have hitherto afforded. The trouble seems to be
that the city is growing rapidly and the park accommo-
dation is not keeping - pace with it, although each year
the population in general is becoming more and more an
outdoor one. Wherefore, the only real solution is to in-
crease the number of parks.
* * . * •
Another chapter of disturbances was com-
menced in Melbourne Pennant cricket on Saturday, to
the deep satisfaction of many vacant seats. Fitzroy met
Melbourne on its own ground, and, to the disillusion-
ment of li spectators, only made 30. ’Roy, to be sure,
was minus three or four of its shining lights, who were
away shedding their radiance in Tasmania ; but, as the
wicket should have been excellent, the team’s debacle
was preposterous. Melbourne also contributed a small
total of 145, to which ’Roy, on a second trial, has re-
sponded valorously with 1 for 33. North Melbourne’s mild
frenzy at the prospect of defeating Carlton resulted in a
total of 259, and Carlton’s response stands at 10 without
the loss of a stick. Richmond, against Essendon, kept
the field all the afternoon, and permitted the ’Dons to
accomplish, for them, a unique total of 283. South Mel-
bourne, on its own ground, and opposed to a supposedly
feeble team like Northeote, batted with considerable
hauteur, and left the board showing 339 for five wickets.
Regarding the Collingwood v. University debate, ’Wood
assumed a portentous aspect, and drove the hide about
for a total of 265 The students have, in response,
pushed it calmly to the tune of 58 for two wickets.
There is still a chance that Victorian cricket
will attract the joyous, barracking football crowds by-
and-bye. The other day two junior clubs —Glenlyon and
Shamrock, both engaged in a “church” competition—
got into such fervid argument that the managers fired
out the Shamrocks into heathen darkness. Next Satur-
day the Shamrocks turned up at Albert Park, where
Glenlyon was to play Howe-crescent Congregationals,
and they took the opportunity to deal with the “Glens”
in such lusty fashion that two hospital casualties and a
Court case resulted. The Beaks reckoned there was a
doubt about the matter, but the hospital authorities had
no misgivings ; their record was “severe contusions, cut
lip, two teeth broken and a slightly splintered jaw bone.”
On the day when the Job was Perpetrated—
that seems to be the orthodox phrase—some moral re-
flections on the Art of Cricket Team Selecting appeared
in Melbourne Herald. They were signed by Iredale, and
they amounted to a wandering and incoherent apology
for the Job in store. Iredale stated that Great Players
knew by instinct whether another player was Great the
moment they saw him handle a bat or pick up a ball.
They always knew —but frequently they were de-
ceived. As regards selectors, said the lucid Mr. Iredale,
their desire to be unbiassed was tempered by the know-
ledge that they were biassed; also, in picking their
friends they often regretted that another friend had to be
left out. Iredale’s manner of dodging the question at
issue was lamentable. Assuming that only Great Players
are true judges of Great Playing, and that every selector
of a team is biassed in favor of personal friends, the ques-
tion before the public was whether McAlister would con-
sider himself his own best friend, and select the gentle-
man accordingly. It seems, however, that this question
had already been settled to the satisfaction of Iredale’s
friend McAlister, and of McAlister’s friend McAlister, and
of their mutual friend Carkeek.
* • • ■ *
Murray Aunger, who had charge of Bertie
Barr-Smith’s record-breaking attempt, considers that the
Coorong Desert is about as bad as anything he met with
on the way to Port Darwin. Some weeks ago he made a
reconnoissance through the desert, and marked out a
track for his future rush through. But when he came
along on the trip itself his marks were obliterated and so
was his track. Where before he had motored along easily
enough were great hummocks and small hills of fine,
flour-like sand, to cross which he charged at 40 miles an
hour. The cars usually leaped into the air at the first
impact, and, striking the sand again, buried their front
axles in it. It was in one of these ridges that Tommy
Burns’s Fiat got caught, and the occupants had to pass
the night in it, and get horses to haul the machine out
next morning. Aunger himself came to grief over the
ridge. Charging it at 40 miles an hour, he only ploughed
through the sand to come on to the point of a granite
outcrop that tore the axle away from its spring fastenings
and drove itinto the crankshaft. The sandin theOoorongis
so fine that every wind heaps it into ridges, and on a wild
day it can be seen rolling about in great waves. Across
this inferno cyclists Pfundt, McKinnon, Plunkett, Ches-
ter, Hartman, and Height will carry the dispatch in the
Dunlop Relay Ride from Adelaide to Sydney. But in some
respects a bike has a better chance than a motor car.
* * *
*
Motor journalists long ago buried the two-
cylinder car as a standard type ; but the thing won’t lie
still. The success of the two-cylinder engine in taxicabs
in both England and France has been most pronounced,
and the chances are that the two-cylinder will again come
into vogue for the ordinary run-about.
* * * *
The Dunlop Chauffeurs’ Driving Competition,
which is to begin with April, has found favor in the sight
of the lords who own motor cars ; and the entry threatens
to be a big one. The £lOO worth of prizes which are to
be distributed amongst the chauffeurs will lead to more
careful driving, and once the habit is acquired it will, like
other vices, stick. And thereby the lives of many' tyres
will be lengthened and the pockets of the owners relieved
accordingly. The tyre people will benefit by the in-
creased popularity of motoring ; and as the prizes are re-
served exclusively to those who use Dunlop tyres, that
already popular necessity should receive a considerable
lift.
• * * *
That proposed motor-bike match between
Doherty, of N.S.W., and De Fraga, of Victoria, is attract-
ing a lot of attention. Doherty’s best times are 3lnin.
8 4-ssec. for the mile; 2min. 20 l-ssec. for two miles;
3min. 33. l-ssec. for the three miles; 4min. 42 2-ssec. for
the four miles; smin. 54 2-ssec. for the five miles.
De Fraga has not done so much timed riding, but he has
cut out the mile in 3min. 6sec. on the eight-lap
saucer track in Melbourne. On the strength of this
performance De Fraga offered to give Doherty half a lap
handicap in three on any course in Australia, and race
him for £5O a-side. Doherty is willing—in fact, if Satan
Challenged Doherty, that fiery-haired dare-devil would be
willing; and, with both parties willing, the match is sure
to come off. De Fraga’s engine is 8-h.p., and Doherty’s
4£; so some handicap seems to be due to Doherty. But
it is doubtful if De Fraga can afford half a lap in three.
■**■**
Those cyclists who were recently arrested in
Christchurch for furious riding after weathering great
gales of tin tacks, dust-filled holes, and a swelteringly hot
day on a road devoid of pubs, have come out on top. The
Christchurch Cycling and Motor Club took the matter up,
briefed expensive counsel, and piled huge masses of law
on the bewildered beak, till he was crushed into sub-
mission. The chief argument was that cycle road races
had been held for 20 years, and allowed to go as being
without danger. Had they been a source of danger to
passenger traffic the Legislature would long ere this
have legislated to prevent them ; and as the Legis-
lature had not, there was really no offence under
the existing Act, which had allowed these races
to go on without interruption for 20 years. The club had
taken all precautions, sending patrols along in front of
the racers, and stationing men at sharp corners to keep
the way clear. The beak, reeling under the reiteration of
20 years and the large hunks of erudite legal learning
flung at him, caved in and dismissed the case. Now the
cyclists are indulging in wassail.
* * * *
The old Pioneer Motor Cycle Club has changed
its name to the Motor Cycle Club of N. S. Wales. Which
seems a pity. The old name was the best. It had a flavor
of antiquity about it that suggested a long and honorable
career. The club is organising a meeting for Wednesday,
March 17, when the events will be divided into two
sections, one for machines under 3£ h.p., and the other
for machines over that power. Some exciting racing is
looked forward to, and in the present apathetic state of
public feeling towards wheeling generally, motor cycling
seems to be about the only form that is likely at all to draw
considerably. There is a spice of danger about the motor-
cycle, and the personal element is sufficiently pronounced
to arouse human feeling.
* * ft .tt
The case of Percy Collins emphasises the neces-
sity for the passing of a special Act in all Australian
States, fining and gaoling the idiot who “ points” a gun
he doesn’t think is loaded. Collins is a youth of 15 years
of age, and he and a companion, playing in his father’s
orchard, commenced pelting one another with apples.
Collins was the better apple-thrower and drove his com-
panion into a hut, where the other, finding a gun, play-
fully pointed it at Collins. The gun was loaded ; and, the
trig-ger having been touched, the thing exploded. Col-
lins is now in a critical state, and if he doesn’t lose his
life he certainly will his sight. There is no suggestion
of criminal intent. It was all “ fun.” But that idea of
fun should be repressed with a stern hand, and the point-
ing of any gun, loaded or unloaded, at a leal subject of
King Ned VII. should be made an offence carrying any-
thing up to seven years’ imprisonment, with a minimum
of, say, 12 months, and £lOO compensation to the injured
party. . .
* if * *
The “ butcher’s bill ” for American games for
1908, has been made up. It runs like this: —Baseball (the
national game), deaths, 17 ; injuries, “ very serious," 26 ;
total of reported injuries, over 250. Football (played
only by a limited class in the universities), killed, 16 ;
injured, 338. One of the killed was a spectator. The
players rushed over him and trampled him to death. In
eight years U.S. football has 116 fatal injuries to its
debit, besides several thousand smashed arms, legs and
noses.
* • * *
In the presence of four distinguished mayoresses
and other “naice” people, the Brighton (Vic.) ladies
held their annual swimming carnival at the Middle
Brighton baths on Saturday. There was a big attendance
of chiffon and sunshade, and no less than 112 entries for
the different events. The main feature of the afternoon’s
sport was the 150yds. championship of Victoria, nobbled,
as usual, by Beaurepaire in 2min. 24sec. A fancy dress
competition resulted in some cannibals, hobgoblins and
other weird oddities prancing about fearfully in the hot
sun.


ft UGELM ANN’S
©
SD
ns
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors
H. E. KUUELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St„ MELBOURNE Jt 199 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE!.
The SUMIVBER is here, and with it has come the “SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Med low Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
] 29 Katoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE,
38 Castlereagh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from —
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
Vi
AFTER
BEFORE
WHY STAY THIN ?
There is now no reason why every man or woman should not
acquire or regain a PERFECT FIGURE. If you want to
add flesh, be made plump and rosy, gain weight, strength,
and beauty, send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of the
“MIRACULA”NERVE FOOD and FLESH DEVELOPER
This newly-discovered HERBAL SPECIFIC is a vitalizing
AGENT and FLESH BUILDER. It will soon put your
NERVES RIGHT, tone up your DIGESTIVE ORGANS,
and make you STRONG, HEALTHY, and VIGOROUS,
with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all SCRAGGINESS.
Try it—it will cost you nothing. Call or write for FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE and FREE BEAUTY BOOKLET.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Department A. 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Good Points of The B. and B. CYCLE
are not merely the enamel and nickel—they are
mostly underneath. The B. and B. is built of
best imported parts, fitted with Dunlop Welsh
Multiplex tyres, and guaranteed 12 months
for £ll.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE,
AND MENTION THIS PAPER.
BENNETT & BRRKELL,
The Largest C.vcie-build in
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
APRIL 6th to APRIL 14th, 1909.
£4500 PRIZES £4500
ENTRIES CLOSE:
Export Butter, March 2.
Special Cheese Prizes, March 8.
Wines, March 3.
Wheat, March 9.
HORSES - Prizes £1420 - MARCH 10.
CATTLE - Prizes £9OO - MARCH 11.
Sheep, Prizes £2OO, March 11. Pigs, Prizes £l6O, March 11. Poultry, Prizes £4OO, March 12.
Dogs, Prizes £l6O, March 15. Farm Produce, Prizes £750, March 16. Dairy Produce, Prizes
£l6O, March 16. Women’s Industries, March 17. Coachbuilding and Leatheries, March 18.
Miscellaneous, March 18.
Prize Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
3 Castlerk.aoii Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary'.
m
m
$3
ISAUI“L
Wmi
rtik.
''■**£* JJ :£V
■f: W
€}
w'tm
111
' m
%
*yf2 «
'■> °
'■' \ .
SVQc «S
Spfftel<ia
?®§s
i
BY UvSING
AWOH .
WEm,
IrofessorTfownrc) 3tys>
“TRe principal ms>ed
agerd inll\e spread ol
. “Typhoid islhe common
House fly "
are
known 1o distribute
disease <serrh£ bur
ike- House Ily is
-ed by :medicai scier\
-tisfs as IKe mod,
deadly enemy ©I
Kv/ma»Hhy. “
Long Odds!
The cost of a post card inquiring for our new
booklet of Bargains in Ploughs and Tillage Imple-
ments will SURELY save any buyer from 100 to
2,000 times the cost of his investment.
This booklet describes and illustrates a large
variety of Standard makes of Implements at Better
Prices, values considered, than can possibly be
obtained elsewhere.
We give Free Delivery at your nearest Railway
Station (Northern Territory, North Queensland,
and W. A. excepted); Long Terms and Easy
Payments, or Liberal Cash Discount.
Offer applies to all kinds of Ploughs, from one
to five furrows, Walking or Riding, Mouldboard
and Disc—as well as to other kinds of Implements.
All new goods and fully guaranteed.
Too long a story to tell it all here.
Send for free booklet and SATISFY yourself of
the accuracy of this advertisement.
International Harvester Company of A merica
( Incorporated )
200 Roma St., Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney ; 545 Bourke St.,
.. Melbourne; Bank St., Adelaide; 75 York St., Launceston.
(258)
A GOOD RAZOR PAYS.
The most satisfactory Razor is the one that retains its keen edge
longest—needs sharpening least—and gives a smooth shave
under all conditions. That Razor is the PLUM.
PRICE 10/6,
POST FREE TO ANY PART
OF THE WORLD.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Razoleo Lightning' Sharpener, 6d
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
CHEAP €PITION of OH THE HOP!
Peice 2/6.
Postage—N.S.W., 7tl. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.


DO YOUR SHOPPING BY POST.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s PURSE, solid silver, richly embossed,
Stork design, silk lined, with four compartments.
Size, 3Jin x 21in.
POST 21/ FREE.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, SC/.
'-r-
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, real amber stem, solid sil-
ver mounts and screws, straight or bent stem.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
Our facilities for taking good care of Country Customers were never
better, and we guarantee prompt and satisfactory service
through our up-to-date Mail Order Department.
m
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUES.
If you’re interest-
ed in Watches,
Clocks. Jewellery,
Silver-plate, Lea-
ther or Optical
Goods, write for
our Illustrated
Catalogue. We will
send you a copy
post free on re-
quest. Write to-
day. It’s freely
yours for the ask-
ing, and is worth
having.
a. sounders.
Ladies’ WAISTBELT, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, A 1 quality, pierced floral design,
in all sizes to fit any waist.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 16/, 20/, 26/.
BUYING
BY MAIL.
You may safely or-
der by mail if you
cannot make a per-
sonal selection, as
we pledge our-
selves to treat
every customer
with absolute fair-
ness. With the ex-
ception of Clocks
and Chinaware, we
send all goods car-
riage free to any
part of Austra-
lasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD-RECEIVER, pure silver-plated, handsomely en-
graved and embossed, satin finished.
17/6
Other, styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
■I
; m
A. SAUNDERS.
PLAYING-CARD CASE, pure silver-plated,
richly embossed, with cards and card-liftin~ at-
tachment.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Chain PURSE, croco-
dile leather, gold or green,
solid silver mounts and chain.
POST 25/ FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6,
21/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, imitation tortoiseshell, 9ct
gold, scroll mount, securely riveted mount.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination TRINKET STAND and PI-,
CUSHION, pure silver-plated, satin finish.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING ROLL, comprising pair of
Razors, finest Sheffield steel, corn knife, tweezers,
scissors, in leather roll.
POST 21/ FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Peggy HAND-BAG, Morocco
leather, nicely finished, silk
sewn.
POST 8/6 FREE.
Other styles in fancy leathers,
from 10/6, 12/6, 15/, to 35/.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, solid silver,
richly embossed, fine white
bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR, pure
plated, richly embossed, bevelled
mirror.
POST 10/6 FREE.
BRUSH to match, 10/6.
w
im
V'l
m
A
ML
B
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT SPRAY, fine hobnail cut erys
tal glass, solid silver top, full size.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Smaller Size, 10/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Ebony HAIR BRUSH, solid
silver shield, fine white bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
tm
A. SAUNDERS.
WAX-MATCH HOLDER and ASH
TRAY, pure silver-plated,
nickel-silver pierced base.
POST 4/6 FREE.
To bold Safety Matches, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO JAR, pure silver-plated, hand-engraved,
satin finished, height sJin.
POST 17/6 FREE.
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
_ MANICURE SET, 4 pieces, solid silver,
richly embossed handles, polished steel
ends.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
lIAIR BRUSH, solid silver, richly em-
bossed, long white bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE HOLDER, real amber holder, gold-
mounted, in richly-engraved sterling silver case, 2Jin
long.
POST 10/(> FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/0, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP HOLDER,
solid silver, fine badger bristles, soap fits into
handle.
POST l{s/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
n
Mdß
sbb*
Ik
:
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS BOTTLE,
fine hobnail cut-glass
bottle, engraved top, 3in
high.
POST 'f/6 FREE.
Other sizes, 5/6, 8/6,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cloth or Hat BRUSH, solid silver, richly embossed,
“Day Dream” pattern, 7in long, extra long, fine, white
bristles.
POST 20/ FREE.
Other styles, 5/0, 7/6, 10/, 12/0, 15/, 17/0, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT-PIN STAND, pure silver-plated,
amethyst thistle, velvet base, •’in
high.
POST 3/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6,' 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS BOTTLE,
fine hobnail cut-glass,
engraved silver top,
height 31in, 8/G; 2£in,
5/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


•v-:*
a
SW;
Film Photography
with the ftodaK! I
Kodak Photography is the pleasantest of pastimes—a hobby good for old and young of both
sexes* The taking, developing and printing of pictures is so simple under the Kodak Film
System that even a child can master it* "Kodak '' Photography is easy, yet it gives better
results than ever.
The dark-room is unnecessary. You can load in daylight, and develop in daylight, too, by
the Kodak Tank method. And you can carry enough films in your pocket to see you right
through a holiday trip, if you like.
The Kodak does away with cumbersome plates, and is light, compact, and easily carried. Its remarkable
simplicity and perfection has led to many imitations, and you need to make sure that the word Eastman is on
the Camera you buy. If it isn't an Eastman, it isn't a Kodak—that's all about it. Take an opportunity of
calling at one of our Stores, or, if that is not convenient, write direct to the one nearest your address. There
is no trouble, and you know exactly what you are buying. Our catalogue gives full details, and will be sent
you on request. It lists the various Kodak supplies, all of which are stocked at English list prices.
FOLDING BROWNIE No. 2.
A dainty little Camera, and a general
favorite with young folk—many grown-ups,
too. Makes a rectangular picture 2Jin. x
3jin.—the Camera measuring 6|in. x 3fin. x
the weight being only 16oz. Fitted
with Meniscus Lens and Reversible Finder.
PRICE, 21/- ; Postage extra, 9d. ;
Inter-State, 1/2.
No. 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK.
This Camera weighs only Alozs., and embraces all the practical
features of Cameras several times its bulk, yet still retains the
Kodak simplicity, making it satisfactory for novice or expert.
Takes pictures 3Jin. x sJin. —the popular post-card size and
is fitted with a Rapid Rectilinear Lens and the F.P.K. Auto-
matic Shutter —two tripod sockets —brilliant Reversible Finder
with hood, Automatic Focussing Lock.
PRICE, £4/10/- ; Postage extra, 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2.
No. 1 FOLDING POCKET KODAK.
This compact Camera takes pictures
x 3Jin., and has a capacity of 12 exposures
without reloading. It possesses a Meniscus
Achromatic Lens, the Pocket Automatic
Shutter, and a brilliant Reversible Finder.
The Camera weighs but 160z5., and can be
carried in an overcoat pocket.
PRICE, £2/2/- ; Postage, 1/- ; Inter-
State, 1/8.
Everybody ought to have a Kodak, for it offers scope for the most desirable of
pastimes, and develops the artistic taste. All ranks appreciate photography from
the Queen of England —who uses a Kodak down to her humblest subject.
BaKer & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 QEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
REMOVE GRAVEL & KIDNEY DISORDERS.
Medical Opinion
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN writes :
“ Knock, Ennis,
“ co. Clare, Ireland.
“ Sirs, —I have recommended
Kutnow’s Powder to several
lady patients, who approve of
it greatly. An aged clergyman
to whom I recommended Kut-
now’s Powder tells me he finds
it both effective and agreeable.”
Dr. LEON BLANC writes:
(Consulting Physician at Aix=les-Bains, etc.)
“ Aix-les-Bains, June 7.
“ Dear Sirs, —Many thanks
for Kutnow’s Powder you sent
me for the Thermal Plospital.
It has proved equally beneficial
for my Rheumatic and Gouty
Patients, both in the Hospital
as well as for those patients
taking the Aix-les-Bains cure.”
KUTNOW’S
Removes the POISON.
If yon ever experience weight and discomfort after
eating, a feeling of abnormal fulness or emptiness,
heartburn, flatulence, acrid and bitter taste in the
mouth, furred tongue, headache, pain in the back
or in the right shoulder, impaired eyesight, palpi-
tation, irritability, neuralgia, sluggish liver, con-
stipation, or turbid deposits, you may know that it
is time to take Kutnow’s Powder, which not only
dissolves but also eliminates all excessive uric acid
and other poisonous deposits from the system.
Substitutes will Ruin your Health.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all
conscientious chemists throughout the World.
The kidneys require very delicate treatment, and
you must therefore be careful to avoid spurious
substitutes, which frequently cause irreparable
injury. Insist on seeing that the carton bears the
fac-simile signature, “ S. KutnOW & Co., Ld.,” and
the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deor Leap,” which also appear on the label on the
bottle. You then
Get Genuine Kutnow’s.
Sole Proprietors :
S. Kutnow ot Co., Ltd., 41 FarKngdon Road, London, E.G.
Public Approval
A CLERGYMAN’S WIFE writes:
“ Erayton, Carlisle,
“ March 9, 1908.
“ Sirs, —Thank you for your
bottle of Kutnow’s Powder,
which I find very efficacious,
pleasant, and agreeable to take.
“ A. Potts.”
Nurse CROSS writes:
“ 2 Percy Road,
“ Wrexham.
“ Sirs, — Some five years ago I
had an acute attack of nephritis
(inflammation of the kidneys),
and my doctor advised Harro-
gate waters. After trying them
for some time with very little
result, the doctor suggested
giving Kutnow’s Powder atrial,
with such excellent result that
in a short time I felt very
much better. I continued
taking it regularly every other
day for two years, and consider
it worked an entire cure.”
[2.


omen
HowW
Can Save.
Queensland women know
full well that Brisbane is the
Cheapest Centre for Drapery in
the Commonwealth. Residents on
the Northern Rivers of N.S.W. are
finding it a fact, too. How much
would you save at these prices?
Ladies' Frilled NIGHTDRESSES,
well made in Al Calico —a garment
worth four shillings —Price 2/11.
Ladies' Winter TWEED SKIRTS,
in dark shades ; these are plain
Walking Skirts of a quality worth
from 8 to 9 shillings. The Sale of
Sales Price is 2/11 each.
How women can save if they
know where to buy!
Finney, Isles
and Co., Ltd.
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, February 20, 1000.
Mr Dear Thargomindah,—
During' the past week we have been in turn in-
dignant, incredulous, and resigned. Our own
pale reflection of Ed. VII. was to be snatched
from us, and (Oh the bitterness of the blow !) it
was told us in confidence that he was destined
to reign over your own sea-lapped city i Just as
her frigid Excellency was off to the Cold Land, and
we were hoping to go a-teaing with only faithful
Verney to hedge him round, there came news that
he was to be whisked off, leaving us to go on
drearily without one glimpse of his bachelor
housekeeping.
The social shades are awakening from their
summer sleep, and there are a few tea-and-talk
re vi vals nowadays. The John Forrest couple pump-
handled a carefully-selected party in the sacred
precincts of the debt-encumbered Queensland Club
this week; and on Friday the Perry dame gathered
a couple of dozen flutterers around her at the
pretty Hamilton abode, in honor of a sister and a
dainty damsel of a niece, Miss Barnett. In spite
of a very dry time, the flowers were a joy, and so
was the millinery present. Mrs. Perrv, sen., Mrs.
and Miss Hicks, Mrs. B. W. Macdonald, the
O’Reilly lady and her chicks, Miss Edith and her
mother, were amongst those who owned the
millinery.
The De Burgh Persse couple and daughter
Jessie wander Tasmania-wards by the next apple
boat. The same rolling craft brings home the
J. T. Isles family after a year’s junketing in
Europe.
Robert Philp’s wife and sister-in-law are also
tripping round the right and tight little Van Die-
men’s Island. And that reminds me that there
seems considerable possibility of “Bob” having
the Speakership thrust upon him, as both Labor
and Government are inclined to fit him up in the
charming lace tie that always seems to me to be
the best part of the billet. Kidston wants him
out of the way, and Bowman, the Labor leader,
knows that he is the only nail on which the more
or less united Government party hangs.
The Pyjama Supper-party, right from the
fluffiest part of N’York, has been wafted over our
way, and has taken root. Happily, however,
these fancy-dress fairings are confined to the shes
of the house. A smart reunion in silk bifurcated
garments took place the other day in Indooroopilly.
when some girleens put in a hilarious evening of
innocent romping. To quote one of the party :
“We did look so cute. Mine were pink, and
went so well with the candle shades ! ” Shades
of our grandmothers ! Think of the feelings of a
parent a century ago going out to dine, and leav-
ing the infants of the house to have a gay frivol in
—well, call them pyjamas.
Mr. Burns’ friend Johnson, the maligned, the
vilified, showed up in an unexpected sort of spirit
here on Wednesday evening. In response to a
hurried wire from a few enterprising sports, the
big man _had agreed to show this city what he
could do in a light-hearted way. The Exhibition
Ground was the scene of the display, and the con-
siderable black man spread himself over the pro-
gramme, several items of which did not appear
upon the original bill. Several thousands of
sports braved elements which threatened unknown
things, and the champion was cordially greeted.
His appearance was heralded by a band banging
“See the conquering hero comes,” with “ Yankee
Doodle” bringing up the rear. Johnson, hardly
visible for smiles, sparred three rounds with a
local amateur—F. P. Corbett, a racehorse-owner,
who was implored by the crowd “not to
hurt him.” Later, with his sparring part-
ner, Bryant, he moved about willingly.
While this was in progress an aspirant in the
crowd implored for a “go,” and in response to
Johnson’s invitation, bounded into the ring, like
J. W. Winton’s “ M’Gint'y ” out of his prison.
Waving his arms like the sails of a windmill, with
the evident intention of intimidating the Star-
spangled banner, he came on. Johnson took one
look at the arriving Fate, and then the vanquisher
of Burns put up the funniest performance on local
record, to the accompaniment of the witticisms of
the crowd. He merely planted his left glov* upon
the white face in front, and steered his opponent
round the ring, like a groggy wherry in a turbu-
lent stream, while the wherry tried hard for some-
thing to hit, dividing the atmosphere into blocks
in the effort. The turn ended with cries for
“ Speech,” and Johnson complied. The wet
weather pointed to a financial failure on the even-
ing’s deal, so Johnson good-heartedly offered to
waive his contract, and stand in on any loss that
there might be. However, there were just enough
“ thrummers” to go round and pay everybody, so
Johnson and his wife motored away to join the
Makura without having to dive into their pockets.
The Children’s Hospital is seeking a lady super-
intendent. Here is a chance for an up-to-date
woman to take in hand a committee suffering
acutely from antediluvian prejudices, and to edu-
cate it up to 20th century standards. She might
also institute a method whereby pupil nurses
could watch their cases from start to finish ; and
then she might bullock through a rule limiting the
time to be spent by beginners in the diphtheria
ward, and defining their hours of off-time. Also,
if the new infant and diphtheria blocks are to do
their best work, there must be no leaving 30 cases
to one unhappy nurse. But that means an in-
creased nursing staff, working reasonable hours —
and housed, for choice, in a building not quite so
perfect as a fire-trap. In fact, there’s enough
work waiting for the matron at the Children’s
Hospital to keep her busy for quite a long while.
What’s wrong with this distressful country, I
wonder, that the husbands regard so lightly the
little things that they so frequently leave behind
them? Latest figures gleaned from the Benevolent
Society’s sheets show an alarming array of females
whose spouses have quietly departed to another
State, forgetting to settle the milk bill, or send
along the registration fee for the pug pup. There
they are, these discarded blessings, and appar-
ently the police can find no remedy. There is a
mighty need of a handy inter-State arrangement
whereby defaulting George could be scruffed into
the handiest co,urt, and there made to pay up for
his liberty. As it is, to bring the runaways back
to the scene of the wifely tears would about ruin
the Commonwealth and keep the whole police
force journeying to and fro to identify the wan-
derers
Miss Grace, a pioneer of note, goes rolling Lon-
donwards by the Runic, and while in the smoky
city will tell it a tiling or two about the Queen
State.
Pianist Hilda Roberts was in her element last
Thursday, when the convent their
hands till they tingled on her account. It hap-
pened in the big music-room wherein she toiled
long ago for the scholarship that carried her so far
on the road to fame. She was finally burdened
with much vegetation and a welcome in verse.
The wife of a certain Minister suffered a wailful
loss recently in the sudden demise of a pet poodle,
“Billy.” Without exactly putting on crape, the
family tacitly agreed never to mention the dear de-
parted. Ultimately the gloom became so profound
that a picnic was arranged by friends to cheer
things up. The neighbors rallied round, and all
went well until the moment of starting, when the
bereaved owner of the defunct dog was discovered
in tears on the doorstep. “Why, what’s the
matter?” asked a friend. “ W-wh-y, Mrs.
S-s-saunders has written to me to ask me to
b-b-bring along p-poor little Billy.” It took quite
a while to make her understand that what Mrs.
Saunders had desired was the tinned goods for
brewing the cheering cup that the ants drown
themselves in at every well-regulated picnic.
The comfortable billet of Old-Age Commissioner
awaits allotment, and as the cards must he shuffled
within a few weeks, rumor is rife with the names
of a number of persons who feel a call to con-
tribute to the comfort of the aged at £lOOO a year.
The most fancied of the lot appears to be the
military Foxton, who makes an elegant figurehead
for the Cricket Board of Control, and in his spare
time is a Federal rep. ; while J. O’Neil Brennan
(he who cleansed the State of Tommy Tanna)
should get a fair run for the local vice-chair.
A BRAVE OLD RACE.
“ Have you many ancistors, Mrs.
Kelly! ”
“ An’ phwat's ancistors? ”
“People you sphrung from. ”
“ Listen to me, Mrs. O’Brien. I come from the rale sthock av Donahues, who sphring FROM
To one; they sphring AT thim.”
I get this note from an unappropriated trea-
sure :
Touching a matter alluded to in The Bulletin of 21st
Jan., do give me a chance to say- that I am in the “ God’s
tired servant” business myself; only no eminently eli-
gible ever yet has heard the call to take charge of me, or
if he has heard he has been too busy to fall in with the
wonderful plan of Providence to give me rest, and a good
man’s protection. Please lay my hard case before your
large male clientele. The man, not the godly sanctity of
him, is my essential ; I would prefer a Presbyterian
younger to an elder ; he can smoke till he is like a blue-
cod ; he can work at anything he likes, provided he gives
me a fair share of the proceeds ; he can be as liberal a
giver as the next fellow', when I have done with him ; and
looks are no object, provided he comes home early at
night. My address is Yearn Villa, Longing-street, East
Brisbane. Photos exchanged.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“Boswell”: Andrew Fisher, Australia’s
Prime Minister, was engine-driving at Gympie in
1897. He had previously served one term in the
State Parliament, but had been defeated on going
up for re-election. The highest post he could
aspire to at the time was the municipal auditor-
ship. His opponent was sharebroker Sid Shep-
herd, representing the Conservative faction, and
holder of the billet for several years. Fisher won
by a few votes, amid much party bitterness. He
was, however, unseated on a technical point, and
in the run-off Shepherd came in first by seven
votes. The jubilation of the Bulcock party was
comically tremendous. Gympie Times shrieked
with joy that they had administered a decided re-
buff to the “ aspirations of this ambitious young
man.” But the ’99 State election came
along, and the ambitious young man was
bracketed with George Ryland as the Labor
nominees. In his opening address, Fisher
seized the prophet’s robes and announced that his
colleague and himself were “ the candidates of a
growing party, which will continue to grow as its
aims are better understood.” F. J. Power and
“ Bill ” Suthers were the chosen of the plutocracy,
but were overthrown by the Laborites ; and since
then Fisher’s star has been rising all the time.
He was always a firm Federalist, and during the
big campaign announced with Ryland that they
supported the movement because the proffered
Constitution was the “ most democratic on earth.”
The only time I remember the leaders of the rival
factions meeting on common ground at Gympie
was in that same Federal campaign. Mention of
Sid Shepherd recalls that the old man passed
away last year, and a week later a son, who had
journeyed from Mt. Morgan for the funeral, was
butchered during his first shift, on resuming, in
one of those tragic falls of rock which gave Mt.
Morgan such a bad advertisement towards the
end of the year.
IN BANANA LAND
Discussing the then-proposed transfer of
Lord Chelmsford from the Government House of
Queensland to the furnished apartments in
Sydney, Brisbane Telegraph broke out the other
evening info a tearful plea for the maintenance of
the present system of State Governors. “Their
presence in our midst,” it said, “will ultimately
bring about an aristocracy of intellect :
And thereon in due course will arise a secondary aris-
tocracy, whether titular or non-titular does not matter,
in whose safe-keeping will rest those social amenities
without whicli wealth is the diadem of vulgarity.
The Telegraph omitted to add - to its beautiful
two-storey structure a garret, or dog-box, or some-
thing of the sort, necessary to house the syco-
phants, press and otherwise, which the other
“aristocracies” produce. It is doubtful, in fact,
whether one garret or one dog-box is enough ;
probably half-a-dozen wouldn’t be too many.
“D. Essay”: Bob Philp, Queensland’s
boss deficit-builder, is to have his name “petri-
fied” by a “Robert Philp Scholarship,” to be
taken out at the Queensland University (at pre-
sent in swaddling clothes). The scholarship will
go annually to the most proficient boy in the
State. His course, I suggest, should include poli-
tical economy. Queensland’s past could thus be
serviceable as a ground of research for the student
anxious to know how not to do it; and thus
Philp’s own services to the State will be turned to
some profit, after all.
Ifc takes careful nursing to get the truth
on top, and persistent defence to keep it there.
As far back as 1833 the Australian Magazine
had a hard battle to get the ruling powers in Syd-
ney to admit that it was possible for a white man
to live even alongside Moreton Bay (Brisbane);
and for years it was maintained that it was in-
human to send white convicts so far north. The
Magazine peppered the fiction with statistics.
History, however, soon proved that it was easier
for a white man to live in the North than for a
white magazine to live in the South—the Aus-
tralian died soon afterwards.
A fireman on the gradual train that puffs
from woodheap to woodheap on. the Port Douglas
to Mossman “tramway” was awarded a gold
medal the other day by a grateful parent. The
train was dashing down an incline at its usual
terrific speed when the fireman spied an eighteen-
months-old infant squatting between the rails.
The brakes were jammed, on; but as it was pretty
certain that they wouldn’t act in time, the fire-
man jumped off the footplate, rushed ahead, beat
the rest of the cavalcade by about three yards, and
got the obstruction out of danger. It’s a pretty
gradual express that the fireman can race, but
gradualness has its advantages at times.
The Bananaland Lands Department woke
up t’other day dead lame in both legs from the
persistent pulling which its limbs had been under-
going. Some time ago the Department arranged
for free railway rides of inspection for the benefit
of intending land applicants. A certain number
of bo.na-fi.de land-seekers availed themselves of
this privilege, also a whole crate of mere dishonest
holiday-makers—deceivers who had no more in-
tention of taking up the land they were trained
to than they had of “selecting” the Barrier Reef.
Among one batch of alleged land-seekers who went
to Central Queensland to “inspect the Yeppoon
farming lands ” were a few Vic. Government ser-
vants, on their annual vacation. As a result of
the Lands authorities “getting wise” to these
unworthy games, the land-hunter is now required
to pay half-%W, which is refunded when he gets
to real busings.
“X.P.D.”: “W.M.’s” mention of the
sea-horror that he caught in Auckland harbor
(B. 21/l/’O9) prompts me to ask whether any
Bulletin reader has been stung by a “stone-
fish’’? I have heard of one victim. He jumped
overboard three days after he had trodden on the
creature, and his mate (a humane man) didn’t try
to save him. The stone-fish lies in the shallow
reef waters about North Queensland and Papua.
If Calvin had known N.Q. he would have repre-
sented Hell as paved with stone-fish.
All the Good Samaritans are not dead.
There is one at Moa Island (Torres Strait). This
speck has been set apart for South Sea Islanders
who have obtained permission to remain in Aus-
tralia on account .of having attached themselves
to lubras. No provision had been made for the
education or medical treatment of the Kanaka-
Binghi offspring ; so a Miss Buchanan, who has
some money of her own, went there and started a
school for the piccaninnies. She is the only white
on the island, and lives in a native grass-hut.
F. R. Rawlins, a one-time police-magis-
trate of South Brisbane, who died the other day,
aged 73, took a leading part in the volunteer
movement when it was resurrected in England 50
years ago. Obituary notices mention that he was
one of the first volunteers enrolled. As a matter
of fact, there were volunteers in Great Britain all
last century. But under the volunteer system it
is always'necessary to bang the drum furiously
when danger threatens ; and one of the periodical
bangings happened to occur when the late Queens-
lander was a young man. And as he was a vigor-
ous youngster he took a hand at the stick.
“ Flinderino ” : The Chinese fisherman of
North Bananaland is urgently in need of six
months’ hard labor for cruelty to fish. He uses
traps made of wire-netting and mangrove saplings.
These traps are almost covered with ocean at high
water, but as the tide recedes the water becomes
only a few inches deep ; and the imprisoned fish
are exposed to the tropical sun or to the moon.
Also, thousands of sea birds gather around the
traps and tear lumps off the unfortunate fish that
happen to get too near the wire netting. Ah
Snook no doubt intends to visit the traps once or
twice a day, but if the weather is anyway boister-
ous, or the fish-market has slumped, or the tired
feeling intervenes, he lets things slide for half a
week at a stretch.
An aforetime Queensland parson has got
his name into the cables in connection with the
present spook revival in the Cold Country. The
spook of Dr. Astley, it appears, turned up at a.
vicarage in King’s Lynn and had a yarn with
Acting-Vicar Brock and two ladies, while Astley
himself was away in a hospital in North Africa.
The Times sent along a reporter on the third
night, but it wasn’t the spook’s night out, and
apparently it hasn’t had a night out since. This
naturally prejudiced the Times ; and thereupon
Brock began to take all sorts of affidavits regard-
ing the bona fides of his ghost. His former
Queensland parishioners at Gladstone and
Sandgate smile a weary smile, though. They
remember Mr. Brock and his eccentricities.
“Flinderino” ; King Billy, jun., is a keen-
sighted nipper, or else he has a marvellous memory.
Lately I had to journey along a lengthy stretch of
coral strand near Port Douglas, North Banana-
land. I happened on a blacks’ camp alongside a
mangrove-skirted creek, and little Billie Binghi
and several of his cobbers were drawing pictures
on the hard sand with pieces of stick. On seeing
me, they bounded off like a mob of wallaby, and
hid in the furthest gunyahs. I inspected the
efforts of the artists, and was surprised at the
neatness of the work. One of the sketches was a
fish, the others were steamers. Small details,
such as portholes, anchors, ventilators, flags, etc.,
were all in the'pictures. Now, the only vessels
that pass within sight are the A.U.S.N. boats
going to and from Cooktown once a week, and
then the steamer is always five or six miles off the
shore. Probably little black Billie sometimes goes
out fishing with Binghi,'sen., in the family dug-
out, and may happen to get a closer view of the
big-pfella boat; but that can’t happen often.


RELATIVE AGGREGATE POPULATIONS.
United States 86 A 2 , 9 A™
Commonwealth ... ... If.
82,184,000
As Australia is larger in territory than the United
States, there is room, therefore, in the Common-
wealth on the basis of the American population
for more than —■
82 MILLIONS OF PEOPLE.
/Is Queensland occupies one-fourth of the territory
of the Commonwealth, her immediate share of
the 82 millions should be
20 MILLIONS
To make her as full as the United States.
She only has 546,860.
QUEENSLAND, THEREFORE, HAS ROOM
FOR 20 MILLIONS OF IMMIGRANTS,
AND MORE BY-AND-BYE.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. VIII.
ADVICE TO THE EMIGRANT.
By J. D. Fitz Gerald.
The world’s problems repeat themselves. When
the lands of Europe were settled under the system
of tenure which has come down to us, defence was
at the base of that system. Conquered lands had
to be held by force; and the feudal system of
tenure provided that a man should only hold and
use land on condition that he agreed to defend
it. To-day we do more in Australia than exact a
pledge to defend the land. We assume, as a mat-
ter of course, that any man of spirit will fight for
his home, his children and his possessions. In
dealing with the waste spaces of the North, the
Government of Queensland insists that he shall
improve and develop it. Land is available by the
hundred million acres ; but no one is permitted to
hold it idle ; and, so far as the State can assist, no
one can complain that he is compelled to hold it
idle through the fault of the services of the State.
Up to this time Australia has been out of the
track of war ; but the growing importance of the
North and South Pacific, the change of the Mag-
netic Pole of diplomacy from the Atlantic to the
Pacific, the potentialities of the great southern
countries, the pressure of increase of peoples upon
subsistence in the Old Worlds, East as well as
West, and the impending changes in the tracks
of commerce which will be caused by the opening
of the Panama Canal —all these have brought us
nearer to the zone of danger. Yet, with all this,
the prospects of peace, present and continued, are
unchallengeably better in Australia than in any
other country in the world to-day. Every settler
leaving Europe leaves a possibly immediate for a
remote danger. There is not a strong enough
pressure of military necessity in Australia to
force us to inaugurate military tenures on the lines
of Feudalism. Therefore no settler need fear that
he comes here to bow his neck to Feudal customs
and burdens. He need do no “fealtyand homage”;
he pays no “aids” to his overlord to assist
that privileged person to “ marry his daughter,
make his eldest son a knight, or rescue him from
the Paynim.”
Every settler who throws in his lot with us
will doubtless be ready to take up his rifle, if re-
quired, to repel invasion ; to resist the plundering
or occupation of the fat farms or the rich mines
in which he has an interest; and he may be con-
soled by this reflection —that if ever war and in-
vasion should come, the conditions of home de-
fence are suitable to the free ways of the people ;
and the people are of the breed that knows how
to defend its homes. On the analogy of the Boer
War, the Queenslanders, aided by the Barrier
Reef, and by the conformation of the country,
by their mobility and knowledge of horses, their
natural scouting capacity, could hold back any
invader till all Australia rushed to their support.
But this is a remote contingency at present, to be
merely glanced at in passing.
In so vast and varied a territory it was neces-
sary to classify the land for the purposes of occu-
pation. Long years of experience led to this
classification. The most experienced surveyors,
and the officers and experts of the Department of
Public Lands, have been at work for years spying
■out the lands, appraising the values, reporting on
the suitability for the various uses to which it was
INSPECTING BANANAS AT GERALDTON.—THERE ARE FORTUNES IN BANANAS.
proposed to put it, becoming learned in soils, rain-
fall, artesian waters, timbers and forests, dividing
out the territory into zones. Then Parliament
after Parliament has been busy classifying the
men who are to use these lands, so that the round
man may not get possession of the square land,
and vice versa.
The Lands Departmental experts have come to
their chiefs as the spies came to Moses and the
Children of Israel, and have reported upon—
The land itself, of what sort it is, whether it be good or
bad ; what manner of cities, walled, or without walls ;
the ground, fat or barren, woody or without trees. And
they related and said : “We came into the land into
which thou sentest us, which in very deed floweth with
milk and honey, as may be known by these fruits.”
And the result of the classification is shown in
the laws which have set up certain tenures suit-
able to the capacity of both the land and the men
who take it up. Roughly, the lands available are
as follows :
1. Freehold agricultural homesteads, 160 to 640
acres at 2s. 6d. an acre ; 10 years to pay.
2. Freehold agricultural farms, 1280 acres at 10s.
|an acre ; .20 years to pay.
3. Leasehold scrub selections, up to 10,000 acres,
;30 years terms, rent from -Jd. to Id. an acre per
annum.
I 4. Leasehold grazing farms, from 5000 to 60,000
acres, at from |d. an acre rent per annum.
5. Freehold prickly-pear-infested selections for
nothing, and sometimes a bonus.
6. Freehold prickly-pear-frontage selections,
from 2s. 6d. an acre.
7. Famous Jimbour lands, from £3 to £6 per
acre ; 10 per cent, cash and 25 years to pay.
8. Pastoral occupation licenses, from year to
year ; no limitation of area of land.
With regard to the pastoral holdings, some of
them are as large as a German principality. For
‘example, Palparara holding, in the Burke dis-
trict, is 2566 square miles; and Sandringham,
in Gregory North, 3068 square miles in extent.
The worker in Europe who intends emigrating
to Queensland must first of all write to the
AGENT-GENERAL FOR QUEENSLAND,
Marble Hall,
Strand ,
London.
At that office the Tourist and Intelligence De-
partment of the Queensland Government m
London is situated ; and there all information
may be obtained as to the terms upon which the
intending emigrant can come to the State of
Queensland, and what are his prospects when he
arrives there. He will find a friendly hand held
out to him from the beginning of the negotiation.
1, 2 AND S ARE LANDS USED FOR STREETS, SCHOOLS, etc., etc.
No matter what his nationality is, or what lan-
guage his query is written in, he will be secure of
courteous treatment from the start. The official
hint to the man who has little or no capital is
couched in these words—
Queensland.: The Rich Unpeopled Country.
A Paradise for Willing Workers.
CLASSES WHO SHOULD COME TO
QUEENSLAND—
Farmers.
Agricultural laborers.
Men accustomed to live stock.
Miners.
Domestic servants.
Men, with small capital, accustomed to outdoor
life.
Men, without capital, not afraid of hard
work. .
Young men, without experience, who are will-
ing to take employment while they learn the
methods of work in Queensland.
But it is assumed all through that the ultimate
ambition of every man who comes to Queensland
PLOUGHING AT LAIDLEY (Q.).-A RICH DISTRICT WAITING FOR POPULATION.
Gto o-pt- „non the soil There lies competence or
fortune On arrival in Queensland the penniless
man can work for some time at the various occu-
tiffins wZi are open to him. He could kill
P‘ birds with the one stone by engaging in some
i i Df i w nVi the land which would give
th^Hue
and meanwhile he may save up with a view of
taking up land. Ordinary farm laborers are very
mnch° in demand, and receive, in addition
„ . ,
to board, and. lodging, 12s. to 245. per week;
ploughmen, 15s. to 275. 6d. per week; har-
; vest hands, ss. to 6s. per diem ; dairy hands, men
;15s. to 205., and boys Bs. to 12s. per week; cane
cutters, ss. to 6s. per day; cane-farm chippers,
225. per week and a bonus of 2s. per week. All
these classes of laborers receive board and lodging
in addition to their wages. . , ..
Then if the immigrant is married he can easily
obtain employment for himself and wife—lie as a
farm hand andl the wife as cook and
for this would be £fs to £BO with board
lodging. A year s experience in this way wou
put them au fait with the work which they wou
be required to do later on when they take up land
for themselves. It must not be supposed t
life-long acquaintance with the ways of soil is
necessary to enable a man to succeed. There are
thousands of examples to the contrary all over the
Australian States. It is a matter of common r -
mark how often the local schoolteacher, probably
born and bred in the capital cities, succum .
the “ lure of the land, and takes up a
on his own. E. J. Brady, the poet, whose lines
on Queensland have been quoted in former
articles, gives a striking instance which came
under his notice during a launch trip down the
Murray River, and narrated by him in his enter-
tabling series, “River Rovers/’ in the February
number of The Lone Hand magazine. It is the
story of Barney Kelly, and is a typical story of
the nluckv pioneering which is going on in Queens-
land to-day, as well as in the Murray district.
“ We landed next evening near a timber-getters’
camp and Barney Kelly came down to the boat
and introduced himself. Barney was a pleasant
relief He took us to his camp, and compelled us to
have dinner with him in his dining hall of bark
and boughs. His pretty, fair-haired wife poured
out tea with the deftness of a sylph. Then Bar-
ney gave us some personal history. He was still a
young man, but had known the strenuous Austra-
ban life. Three years before, he had a little busi-
ness of his own'in Melbourne. He failed, and
turned to canvassing for a book agency. From
that he became a traveller for a firm which ini-
ported sacred pictures, etc.” .... This was not a
success, so “he was ‘up against’ his luck, and
decided to hit out for the bush. He went to a
registry office and booked himself and his young
wife as an eligible married couple. The agency
procured them a position in this capacity with a
‘ cocky ’ farmer in Nor’-Western Victoria.” After
struggling along here, with a hard taskmaster
apparently, “Barney and his ‘missus’ uncere-
moniously left the farmer and took to the track.
They tramped over 50 miles together before he
got work cutting timber for a mill. He took a
contract for 40 tons at a ridiculous figure, put up
a tent, and faced the situation. Now he
was winning out, getting on his feet, and
putting money away to start in business
again. His courage certainly deserved reward—
and judging by the steak-and-kidney pie on
which Mrs. Barney fed us, his plucky helpmate
deserved reward also. She was grit all through,
and a wonderful cook, two virtues which sit well
on an Australian girl.”
Now, when the great Australian noyelist of the
future arises, he will base his masterpiece on such
idylls as that of Barney Kelly and his “pretty
fair-haired wife ” who shared his tramps and
struggles and was a “ wonderful cook.” It is such
stories as these which form the basis of Maxim
Gorky’s wonderful, but sombre masterpieces of
Russian fiction. As in Gorky’s stories we can see
the effects of the snow, the fog and the perpetual
rain, so in Brady’s true sketch of a river rover in
Australia we see the sunlight, the merry optimism
which is characteristic of the life and the people
of Australia from the Murray to the Gulf of
Carpentaria.
And then there are the chances which are held
out for young European girls by the State Immi-
gration Department. Domestic servants are
granted free passages to the new State, and on
arrival may obtain employment at wages varying
from Bs. to £1 per week and board and lodging.
Cooks may expect 20s. to 40s. per week and board
and lodging. And to these girls it is not a mere
question of “making a living.” The possibilities
of their securing good homes by marriage are in*
finitely greater in Queensland than in any other
country in the world. The disparity between the
numbers of the sexes which is found in most
countries of the world is in favor of the ladies in
Queensland. Where, in most European countries,
there are “not enough men to go round,” owing
to the preponderance of women, in Queensland
the position is reversed, and not only can every
Jack have his Jill, and every Jill her Jack, but
Jill has more opportunities of choice than Jack,
and more than Jills anywhere else in the world ;
because the number of the men exceeds that of the
women. There were in Queensland, in 1906, 120
men to every 100 women. This facet of the problem
of creating a great Democratic State must not be
overlooked. There is a freedom of choice, too,
which is not possible in the older countries,
where unconscious caste influences circumscribe a
free choice. The daughter of a petty grocer in
Britain would think herself declassee if she married
a young workman, even though he were as hand-
some as the Bel videre Apollo, because at home a man
probably remains a workman, while in Queensland
he may become a millionaire. Where a greater
freedom of choice is exercised the result to the
race must, in time, be beneficial, and must assist
in evolving a better type. In fact, keen observers
think they note the development of such a type
already—a type lean, wiry, strong, muscular in
body, and absolutely free from mental prejudice on
social, religious or political subjects. So the more of
the bright-eyed, pink-cheeked damsels that come to
Queensland’s shores, the merrier. They will find
themselves treated as princesses in Queensland,
while in England they were probably uncon-
spicuous units in a too numerous array of woman-
kind, with every prospect of being put “on the
shelf.” Here, the pious wish of everyone is
like that of the song
To make each maid a wife
If I’d a wishing cap.
Under the conditions mentioned above, the
chances of an English, Irish, Scotch, Welsh,
Danish, or German family in getting on can easily
be gauged. Take the case of a man of 45, with a
wife and family, say five children, three boys and
two girls, of ages from 12 to 20. The father and
mother could take a position as farm hand and
cook, the boys could earn from ss. to 15s. and £1
per week, and the girls from Bs. to £l, in the
vicinity of the place where the father and mother
were employed. Their united earnings would
average £2OO in the first year, with their keep;
and they could face the second year, acclimatised,
with increased knowledge and with enough
capital to begin on a small scale for themselves.
The ordinary immigrant from the Old World
who accepts a position as an agricultural laborer
from an employer, has a guarantee of a year’s
work at wages approved by the Government.
The employer, in addition, must pay a fee of £5
for each laborer introduced, and must provide
him with suitable accommodation. The Agent-
General in London may grant free passages to
the wives and children (under 18 years)
of such immigrants as these. The ordinary ap-
proved immigrant not under contract can come
to Queensland for £5 passage money—the cheapest
pleasure trip in the world (14,000 miles for
£s!)—but must deposit £5O with the Agent-
General, which is refunded to him on arrival in
Queensland. The.system, on the arrival of the
immigrants, becomes a snowball. Those who
come, as well as all the residents of Queensland,
have the right to nominate friends and relatives
in Great Britain and Europe for nominal passage
rates— e.g., £4 for males between 18 and 40, and
£2 for females of the same ages ; over 40 and under
55, £B. And thus those who have come into their
inheritance as free citizens of the most progressive
and democratic community under the sun, are
not usually reluctant to carry the glad tidings
further, and put their friends and relations in the
Old World on to such a “ good thing.”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
Fo NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Sorew. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £i 6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spncious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melrourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
__ Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527—Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South IVales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hoi., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager : R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3Xr.S.'X7V.
g|)ont de piete 0. I. Co., Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH Sr., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LI M IT ED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. L God I rey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOItIIOWM AN, Manager.
FItEPK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
New Edison
Records
Now Ready.
There are some splendid selections in
the new lists just published. They are
the British and American Records for
December, and tbe variety is charming.
Any of our dealers will gladly let you
hear these new numbers, or any of the
old ones for that matter.
Just drop us a note and we will tell
you the address of your nearest dealer,
and we will also forward a full list of
Edison Phonographs and Records.
You will find a deal of entertainment
and education in the Edison—the in-
strument that speaks for itself.
NATIONAL PHONOQRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
De.nt. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
A
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, Gd. The Bulletin Office.
Shipping.
or d Deutscher L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
xliiseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
BREMEN
ZIETEN ..
SEYDLITZ
SOU ARNIIORST
GNEISENAU
ZIETEN ..
Mar. 20
Apr. 17
c oeatromg yuanties Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnatre, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
P u, f lne > CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Ayents,
Tel. 695. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridsre-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eoi Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital pa i d - U p £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
DiRECTORS—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia .-JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ »B€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetotvn. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
March 20.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
April 8.
SUEVIC, PERSIC, and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Awplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresbj', Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about S
■
CRUISES A
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE, DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land a few of
the important features being:—
(«) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(6) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during 1
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(■ d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Unoertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
purcnase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT,
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
x situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
BE WISE!
To Save Money
Buy your Cutlery and Plate at McLean’s.
THE
Sheffield«
32/6
Parcel
-- Contains
© r, r ©
follows.
I Bread Knife.
6 Table Knives.
0 Dessert Knives
i Carving Knife.
I Carving Fork.
6 Table Forks.
6 Dessert Forks.
i Table Spoons.
6 Dessert Spoons.
6 Tea Spoons,
i Sugar Spoon,
i Salt Spoons,
t Mustard Spoon.
PIECES
for
12/6)
POST FREE.
Sold under absolute guarantee.
Send for New Plate and Cutlery Catalogue.
McLean Bros. U Rigg Pty. Ltd.,
147-149 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Zaw Points
Inventors
by letter, and reliable ad-
vice free on all matters
concerning- the obtaining-
' of Patents. Clients as-
sured of the most skilled attention in draft-
ing, engineering', and chemistry. A. J. CAL-
LINAN, Patent Attorney, Rialto, Melbourne
Hotels, &c.
ml
Grosvenor
Hotel,
Church Hill, Sydney.
Cool and Salubrious
Position.
Cos}' and Elegant
Appointments.
Cuisine and Service
Excellent.
Tariff, 8/- to 10/- per day ; Room and Breakfast,
only 5/-. Special Rates by Month or Season.
C. W. M. CHATEAU, Proprietor.
Tels., S6O Central, 300 City.
M
rEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND*
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping 1 at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, February 27.
Connecting with
■S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle to N. -West Ports),
March 12.
BRISBANE,
MAGIiAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, Feb. 27.
S.S. Gabo, March 6.
Jiest and Cheapest Itoute to Gold/iel-ds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
February 27.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 6.
MELBOURNE >
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers -
and cargo for S.A.,
CJulf Forts, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR.
DAY, March 13.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, February 27.
BUNINYONG, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, March 6.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OPFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
+.
uuio I STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F. H. — S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET.**
11,300 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - 6th March
~ „ „ SYDNEY - 12tli March
„ „ „ HOBART - 17th March
~ „ „ MELBOURNE - 22nd-March
„ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 27th March
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL 1 [ £49 10s ' £l3 13s ' £l5 15s> £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-,weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
> Calvert’s
| 20 % Carbolic Soap.
J It is also pleasant and refreshing for
( bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
) against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
•Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
* DAD’S AND DAN.’
The New Way back Book you are bound to read, Is.


NANON
AND
MIGNON
PIANOS.
o
UR two popular models
are well and favorably
known throughout Aus-
tralia. We have embodied in
these two moderate-priced in-
struments as far as possible all
the leading features of the most
expensive pianos, and we can
assure the heads of families
that they cannot procure better
values.
Old Pianos Taken in
Part Exchange.
Liberal Extended Payments
Arranged.
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co. Ltd,,
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
RERIS
SALT
ft?
SC.
mi
EBa
Agents—Harrison &• A ttwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PA7LNTS
Gollison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS,
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to 6d.
SUTTON’S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
The summer has arrived—there is no doubt of it
The heat is hard enough to endure, but you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to you, but your complexion is going to be ruined unless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and your beautiful skin you prize,
and rightly so, therefore preserve them by using only
4711 Glycerine Soaps and 4711 Eau de Cologne. After
a day’s motoring, golf, or shopping, “ 4711 ” will refresh
you, and render your skin beautifully subtle and clean,
and give you that peculiar charm which is always
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of No. 4711.
The
Triumph
OF
mm
m
TYRES
ANOTHER GREAT VICTORY
MELBOURNE TO ADELAIDE RECORD.
599 MILES UNDER HOURS.
Messrs. Bertie Barr Smith and Murray Aunger have established
a Motor Car Record between Melbourne and Adelaide, covering the
distance —599 miles —In 22 hours 24 minutes.
Their 60-h.p. Napier Car was fitted with Michelin Tyres, and
the performance adds another to the long list of Triumphs on
these famous Tyres.
A critical examination by motor experts and engineers at the
conclusion of the run revealed the fact that, in spite of the high
speed kept, and the extremely rough roads, the tyres, though too
hot to be touched, were not worn In the slightest, the tyre
material itself showing hardly a scratch.
Sole Australian Agents :
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.,
Founders of the All-Rubber Goods Industry in Australia,
234 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY ;
226 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE;
10 MCHENRY STREET,
ADELAIDE;
and at PERTH,
HOBART,
BRISBANE.
By Appointment
to His Majesty
the King.
V 7
-
\r
s<
¥■/
Vv' 1
V v
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
800t 9
22/6
Ladies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at 22/G»
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light" is free on receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran. .
PEOPLE
who are
FAT
COPICD fßOtl ACTUAL* PdQXQORAPiIi
often fail
to fully
realise what a tremendous burden they
are - carrying. A body intended to carry
ten stone must suffer severely when
constantly loaded with 50 per cent, ex-
cess weight. Dead weight, useless tissue.
Why do you carry it? Obesity ruins
the health.
"Fatcure”
reduces excess weight and cures Obesity. It
reduces and keeps down Corpulence. It rids
the body of five pounds superfluous fat per
week. No drastic dieting or exercise is
required. It is harmless, and pleasant to
take. Improves the general health and re-
stores a good figure. Send 2d. stamp, or
call for free trial sample. 9 a.m. tosp.in.
The fat once removed does not come back.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
[3l
POMEROY
Liquid Powder
Tones down any undue redness and
renders flushing of the face less notice-
able. Is a great protection to the com-
plexion especially when motoring, yacht-
ing, coifing, etc. Made in five shades :
Flesh Pink, Pale Pink, Rachel, Pale
Rachel and White.
Solti by all Chemists and Stores; or
direct from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old
Bond Street, London, England.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
LADIES’ TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for:
VERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
riSHIN
'WRITEC
- FOR, ~c
I V ,l,ll—r .
*J.Scott.364Bourke Sr, Melbourne
Every
Requisite
Trout
.Perch
Cod
, Sea
Bream
Business, Robbery, etc.
“G-ill”: Touching a matter frequently dis-
cussed before Wages Boards, I enclose a balance-sheet of
my family expenditure which may convince doubtful
readers that it is quite possible to lead a happy life on ,
30s. a week :
Beer £0 17 6
Wife’s beer.. .. .. .. .. •• 2 6
Instalment on “ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” 4 0
Rent (to be paid next week) .. .. .. 0 0
Butcher and grocer (to be paid next week).. 0 0
Bread .. .. ~ .. .. • • 0 4
Theatre : Pantomime, “ Babes in the Wood” 2 0
14 ounces soap .. .. .. .. • • 0 3
A little more beer 3 0
Charity .. .. .. .. .• 0 2
Tobacco 0 9
£0 30 6
In adding up the total I find that during the last week I
ran into debt to the extent of 6d. That will be easily
remedied—next week the wife’s beer will be cut down to 2s.
* * » *
“ Croson ” : Now that the State has shown the
possibility of a gorgeous extension of the Australian
fruit-exporting business, by landing in Melbourne a small
shipment of Spanish grapes, which it bought in London,
and sent out as general cargo, Private Enterprise is rush-
ing round in a hurry to reap the profits of the State s
idea and energy. With pineapples selling in Melbourne
at from 2d. to fid. retail, peaches at 2d. to 4d. per lb., and
table grapes at 2d. to 6d., there should, after paying the
cost of packing, and the insignificant general-cargo
freight, be a regal profit for somebody at London’s spring
and winter prices. But it looks as if that “somebody”
is going to be the twin brother of the butter exporter.
And, by the way, how comes it that a 21b. tin of preserved
Queensland pines retails in Melbourne at 6d., while the
same sized tin of locally-grown apples, pears, peaches, or
plums costs the grocer’s customer 9d. and lOd. ?
• * * *
“Hamer ” : “Shooting the moon ” is a fine old
British sport that has much to commend it. But in this,
as in other pastimes, there are proper times and methods.
They bombarded Luna in my suburb recently, and they
did it by daylight and hit more victims than the landlord
—both of which things were flagrantly against the rules.
I was at home when the news of the occurrence got
about. A small, wild-eyed man hammered on my front
door, and asked me if I had seen a furniture van. Before
I could ascertain whether he meant had I ever seen a van
of this sort, or had I seen such a conveyance during the
current week or month or year, he was away, trailing
oaths and excitement behind him. In short order a
master butcher, a grocer in carpet slippers, a milkman,
and the owner of the wine and spirit establishment on the
corner called, propounded feverish queries, and sped away.
Their conduct stirred my interest. I went forth to
investigate. Outside a palpably deserted house I dis-
cerned an agitated crowd of people. As I hove in view
they rushed me in a body, and asked me about the van.
I gathered that moneys large and small were due to all of
them, and that the van had in full light of day borne
away the furniture and effects which were their sole
security. News of the van’s conduct had been conveyed
to them ; but too late. Also, none knew the van-owner’s
name or address. They said they were waiting for the
keys of the abandoned dwelling. When these arrived
they would investigate. There wasn’t much to investi-
gate when the kevs did arrive. Loud groans issued from
the little man who had first spoken to me (he was the
landlord), as he dashed inside and observed large chips
taken off the walls of his property, and a complete absence
of fittings. A trunk, a portmanteau, a writing-
table, and some sundries were discovered ulti-
mately. The landlord cheered up and said he
would impound this property and set it off
against the rent due. A fierce argument ensued
with the other defrauded ones. In the midst of it a
stranger appeared and said the goods belonged to him.
They were the remains of a considerable stock of personal
property which he had left behind some hours before.
He seemed dazed. He explained that lie was a boarder,
and had paid four weeks’ board and lodging in advance a
few days previously. Despite his ill-fortune, the others
appeared to think that he should settle their accounts,
and they argued the point with him hotly. It was mid-
night ere the excitement subsided. The discarded boarder
stood about speechlessly. He cherished a faint hope
apparently that it was all a bad dream. He stayed till the
last, looking as though he wished to Heaven tie would
wake up. * The landlord lurked near the front doorstep
all night. He feared, I take it, that the departed tenants
would cofne back and try to move the house.
* * » *
“Melba”: “Canvassing’s a queer game,” said
the drummer, reflectivel}’. “ I’ve handled most lines in
my time, from motor-cars to bug-killers, and I know.
The game’s not so bad when you get a good line, like
whisky or tobacco ; but when it comes to travelling in
pyjamas, or in tar and feathers (like the man in ‘ The Two
Roses ’) it’s not the game it’s cracked up to be. It’s all
serene when you get a clear territory ; but when you
start out to sell Mrs. Jones a ‘Timbuctoo’ sewing-ma-
chine, and discover that there are others (57 others)
before you, each leaving behind an odor of suspicion and
stale beer—well, you feel like chucking the job and
N o-oing back to toil. The queerest line I ever took
on was tombstones. Got the job on the strength
of being a live man, and held it by roping in the dead
’uns. Used to look up the death notices every morning
and call round with a few words of sympathy and a choice
lot of sample photos. I was quite a success as an im-
promptu mourner. The marriage columns of the dailies
also help the drummer. Suppose you are in the furni-
ture biz, and you see that young Softhead has just got
spliced with little Tottie from the theatre. It’s just a
chance that in, their haste they didn’t get the
furniture first, so you pursue them with congratu-
lations and your catalogue. Chances are, though,
that you’ll find 20 other furniture men on, the
.verandah, and a dozen or two of sewing-machine
fiends climbing over the back fence. Life assurance is
not bad if you are a fluent liar and can stand the whisky ;
but the book trade is about played out. Life’s too short
now for ‘ Beauties of Killarney ’ (in 12 vols.) or ‘ Queen
Elizabeth’s Lovers ’ (with 150 illustrations). The worst
of this ring-the-bell-and-knock-at-the-door racket is its
unhealthiness. If you bag a big order and mention the
fact to a fellow-drummer, it’s about ten to one he’ll scoot
off and tell your customer that you’ve just died a linger-
ing death, and with your last breath entreated him to
close the deal. I was killed 13 times before I swore off
mentioning things to anybody.”
* * * *
“ Whitepen” : Can’t anything be done to rescue
Sydney’s furniture trade from the Chow? It was my
misfortune to have to call the other day at nearly every
Chow furniture shop in Waterloo. They all had orders
from some of the biggest furnishing houses in town. The
said houses are wily. They take the furniture from the
Chow shop, and put white men on to polish it up and
finish it off. This method more or less obliterates the
Chow brand. To find the Chow brand, place the suspected
furniture between yourself and the light, look under the
polish, and if you see plane marks you’ll know the saffron
afony’has been there. Chows don’t use sandpaper. A
thing, by the way, that strikes you hard is the extra-
ordinary number of furniture-trade Chows that can’t
speak a word of English. If there are no Chows coming
in it takes a loijg time, to say the least, for the old hands
to’learn their way about. Which is not like any Chow I
ever knew. * * *
“Cict” : Syria fell in heavily up my way re-
cently Abraham Kalian Bashan his name was—or
something like it—and he had hoarded enough cash as a
hawker to be able to chuck wandering and buy a Rivenna
store. His pedlar’s license had still some months to run,
so he turned it over for a cash consideration to a fellow-
countryman who couldn’t get a license of his own. The
new Abraham Kalian Bashan was either unversed in or
careless of the law of N.S.W., so that soon the police
sought him avidly, and he was fain to skedaddle, leaving
the name of Abraham, etc., to be dragged before the
court on a charge of theft. Then was it that Abraham
No 1 righteously indignant and awfully angry, was
hauled before a strange Bench, in an unfamiliar corner of
the State, and compelled to clear himself of a crime he
had not committed. After much expense and loss of time,
Abe No 1 proved to the satisfaction of the local justices
that he’was innocent, and then truculently applied for
Costs They were refused him, with contumely. In fact,
the Law is still thinking whether it won’t mulct him in
more money than Costs over his irregular transaction
with the license.


The “strike” of parents at Prentice
(Vic.) spreads; the Antwerp fathers and
mothers have now declined to let their children
be injured by sitting for hours daily in a ram-
shackle pigsty. When told of this rebellion,
Education Minister Billson, who had promised to
do wonders on learning of the Prentice outbreak,
was found to be in a fatigued state of mind, and
opined that “ parents who thus encouraged an in-
urrectionarv spirit in their offspring were poor
tituples of citizens, and quite unworthy the eon-
ideratiou of the Department.” From which it
can be seen how Billson has fared in his intended
fight against red tape.
TERMS ARRANGED.
SMALL DEPOSIT. BALANCE WEEKLY.
J?VERY Description of Business for Sale. Partner-
ships Arranged. Genuine Businesses and
1 artnerships Wanted. Loans Negotiated. Farms
etc., for Sale.
WRIGHT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Governmetit.
Silver Butter Dish
Only 3s. 6d. each.
Two fop 6s. 6d. Carriage Paid.
Guaranteed not to tarnish.
AN UNUSUAL BARGAIN.
HERE indeed is an exceptional opportunity for
you to obtain a beautiful E.P. SILVER
BUTTER DISH at a trifling cost. It has a
very striking appearance, being RICHLY
EMBOSSED, and, unlike other Butter Dishes
will never tar-
nish or go black.
It will give
you splendid
service and
satisf actio n
and is far bet-
ter than
others costing
more than
double the
price. Please
write at once to avoid being disappointed, as we
could not possibly land a.nv more at anyibing
like the price, which is ONLY 3s. 6d each,
or two for 6s. 6d. and we pay the carriage any-
where. If you send an extra Is. we will
include a handsome BUTTER KNIFE.
A. J. SMITH & C 0.14 Hunter St. Sydney
7 PRY YOUR DOCTOR
r A
%
■
SJR
~T
cy
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
commit a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Our modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
thing's he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weaßness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worKs while you sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing*
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £1 in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
Il you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liße BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-dav.
or CALIi for Free Consultation. Hours— 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
THE McLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dep, 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The McLaughlin go.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES-IY., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve,’ Is. Packet of Ten, lOd.
STEWART DAWSON 8 CO
(AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
Strand Corner, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Any of these Good Watches will be sent Free and Safe by Registered Post on receipt of Cash with Order.
The “Princess” Watch, 18ct. Gold
Hunting Cases, £5 10s. Open Face
style, £4 10s.
Ehe 14ct. Gold-filled Elgin Lever,
worth half-a-dozen cheap Gold
Watches, £5.
The Waltham Lever Watch, 10et..
£5 ; 14ct., £6 ; 18ct., £7.
Special Values these.
fj § w lillll Wm
WKigSSSmsmSSIt Mnraln
mm
'mmmm
mm,
The Waltham Lever, lOct. Gold Hunting
Oases, £8 10s.; i4ct. Gold, £lO lv,*.
The "Nonpareil ” Cut Hunter, 18ct.
Gold Cases and Gold Dial, £8 10s.
The Waltham Cut Hunting’ Lever.
18ct. Gold Cases, £l3 10s.
The “Nonpareil,” Gold Dial and
ISct. Gold, Case, £6 10s.
Full Hunters, £7 I Os.
[I IK
assac
m
The Waltham Hunting 1 Lever, 18ct.
Gold Cases, £l4 10s.
Special Adjusted 18ct. Waltham
Lever, £2l.
' Nicole Nielsen ” English Lever, 18ct.
Gold Oases, Engraved or Plain, £35.


One fool section of the Victorian Pure
Foods Act directs an inspector to take three
samples of suspected cow-juice, one of which the
milk-oh retains, the second is analysed by a
Government analyst, while the third is placed in
a cool store in case the defendant demands an
independent analysis. The provision looks all
right, but it frequently happens that the third
sample gets into such an explosive state that it
bursts the bottle—and then the milk-oh is greatly
cut up, and assures the Court that if he could
only have had the stuff analysed before the explo-
sion took place it would have established his
innocence. Up to now the law has had to assume
that the provisions of the Act haven’t been com-
plied with—that the suspected person hasn’t had
the chance which the law says he must have. It
seems almost necessary, therefore, for the Act to
be amended so as to lay it down that milk which
blows up shall ipso facto be regarded as not quite
so edible as it ought to be.
The Oldest Inhabitant goes on excavating :
“Darling Island,” about which the master-carriers of
Sydney threaten to strike in consequence of the block to
business, caused by mismanagement, has a history. In
the ’thirties, before the advent of Governor Darling,
when Darling Harbor was known as Cockle Bay, the
island was an island, and was known (don’t ask why) as
Nvmph Island. On the mainland the Macarthurs had a
grant; it was John Macarthur who named the place P.yr-
mont. What is now known as Jones Bay was Elizabeth
Bay, so named after John Macarthur’s wife. The
Macarthurs filled in the narrow channel, thereby making
the island a peninsula. Later on, about the ’fifties, the
old A.S.N. Co. established its foundry and ship-repairing
works there, and in 18S1 the Darling Harbor resumptions
came about, for railway purposes. For 3ac. lr. 6p. (the
Darling Island peninsula) the executors of Major-General
Sir Edward Macarthur, the eldest son of John Mac-
arthur, put in a claim for £25,605. The case came before
James Martin, and the jury gave the Macarthurs
£12,000. They were days of colossal impudence. For a
leasehold of ljac. Big John Lucas claimed £76,954, and
got £4500 ; John Harris, of Shane’s Park, as tenant in fee
simple of 4ac. Or. 7p., claimed £117,582.' He got £30,000.
“ A.W.D.” thrusts his oar into a contro-
versy
Though quite agreeing with “Johannes” (B. 21/l/’O9)
that Wilde’s services to literature entitle him to the
honor of a recognition of his grave at Pfere la Chaise, still I
must heave the incredulous brick at his statement that
“ a pestilential magazine,” such as is alleged to have been
conducted bv Wilde, “ couldn’t have lived ten minutes at
Oxford.” If that is so, then the Oxford of “Johannes”
(’96-’00) w»as a very 7 different place to the Oxford of a
decade earlier, when I was there.
I had never heard of Wilde in connection with any
such periodical as “0.K.” mentions, but to justify my
belief that such would command a certain amount of sup-
port, I would state that just such a magazine did exist in
’79-’Bl, and circulated fairly extensively at Oxford—The
Pearl, a Magazine or Facetiae, published monthly, in
London (I believe). The possession of a publication of
this kind would hardly imply degeneracy, though it
would undoubtedly ensure the possessor’s being “sent
down ” if the authorities happened on it. '
Translated French Novels.
(Some Illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogues from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2Jd
C. ARTHUR, 6 Passage Crana, Monte Carlo.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy v on
every other remedy had failed. Fnglish Prices 4/6 ana 11/-
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
Messrs. Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared b ' I. W. NICMOLL Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25. HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fret, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and .\ ovelitief
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR .
Qout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
A
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH
Price (id, from The Bulletin Office.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), A^r rl Tre t^ r ifry L Brill S, of r a 0 n n y *of «fe Aus*
of Government Debentures, InscribedStoc T e y RENT RATES OF INTEREST
tralian States or New Zealand IaPS? A ' LO " *
Our new Mort-a-e Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privi eire of repawn,
Sto 20 percent: of the loan during any year with,= no*ceS^ an : Benjamin
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O Senator the Hon. J. T. DP gr nchconlse , M.L.C. ;
Short. Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C : The Hon. R. J. B ack, M.L.O. .Lboaoiu S A F . F . A .. E.S.S.
Jas. 0. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary . Richard X OAMEKON secretary.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Miss Van Bkakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET*
Between Elizabeth and Cast! ere
Natural Hair Pads from 21/-
COMBINCS MADE UP.
SYDNEY,
>.a<rh Streets.
Tails from 7/6.
Telephone 2138.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
A LUXURIOUS SHAVE
isiassured by using:
THE MAXIM RAZOR.
Blades gin., Jin., or Jin. deep. Round, Square or Irish Point,
Sokl under absolute guarantee at C C Torrey’s Swing Strop,
Post Free to arty part of Australia. O/O- Lathabreme Shaving Stick, 6d,
SOLE AGENTS FOR MAXIM RAZOR I— q
RR nc a nice PTY. LTD. (Under direction of Thos. Buxton & ®ons;,
147-149 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Importerj^ofJlardnrirejiiiriJ^
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles. Surprise S Joke Novelties.
The
" Oval ”
Puzzle
Match Box.
THE MAGIC NOSE BALL.
Yery novel and surprising:. You squeeze the ball,
and out flies the nose in a most amusing: manner.
On releasing the pressure the nose at once dis-
appears. One of the most comical novelties to be
found in our varied stock, and affords no end of
amusement for old and young. Price 1/-, or post
free anywhere for 1/2.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
The Latest Puzzle Match Box on the market
Stronglv and neatlv made, nickel-plated, and handy
size for vest pocket. A great joke on cadgers who,
upon asking for a match, are handed this tnckj
little box, which they struggle in vain to open.
Quite easy to open when you are in the know. * u
directions enclosed. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Joker’s Indiarubber Snake,
One of our most successful surprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can be held in a closed
hand without being: noticed. Springs out of the
hand in a most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price 1/3 post free anyw^here.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haysnarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pjtt_S^reets^Sydney^
SMOKE
&
REFEREE tobacco
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
<f — s
r>
\(\
My
F avo u. r i t e
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful dr.-!:.
Insist on the genuine “ MONTSERRAT
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF A 1,1. CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously."
— Lancet.
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
NEAT and
STRONG^.
/I
and
BELTS
HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
* Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.0..
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington, Eng.
rice List on
application.
TO
MEND
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
*7.
lET
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant:
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd. , and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
*
Food.
In the preparation of Bengers Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s F'ood is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., eveiywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
S7>e LEADING
HOUSE FOR
sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting: Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
samaambm
fiM
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rehounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6| to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 6| to OMb. ... ■y B ss.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
CANT
B
BEAT
AULDJOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
1 BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
: MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mbrrie
England, 9d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. d,v De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain' for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMWt.ACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
lan His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
AM these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. NewTrioks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hit. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(.1 as. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
&
f CUARAN^^ 5^
PIPES
to thcTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The ehampion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years,
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of anv charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonst at on of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-vear guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANOLO-AUSTRAUAN IMPORTING CO., o pp . c.P.0., Sydney, (I.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s ’’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
IMikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refilled extract of tobacco, of uniform
strengi h ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
bandy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there art
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem.
' Ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-stbeet, Sidney. ’
Sample bottles and full particulars, by poet
Is. 4d. ( stamps) to make 5 gallons spray. '
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NerronsCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN ClGAR-
relieved
ETTES.
Sold by all Chemists.
m
Brifisi)=Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £1
in advance, all over
per year,
the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially-
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austkalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


Six Months in Hospitals
with Terrible Burns.
Leg and Arm almost Roasted —One Great Wound from Knee to Thigh—
Discharged as Incurable —A Great Zam-Buk Triumph.
Por ten months Mrs. W. Bewick, residing at 158 Short Street, Balmain,
Sydney, suffered agonies from terrible burns, caused through her clothes
catching fire whilst cooking at an
open fireplace on Weetawaa Station,
Wee Waa, • northern New South
Wales. Her injuries, which were
extensive and serious, baffled
doctors and hospitals, and defied
all ordinary ointments and lotions,
etc. Scores and scores of cases of
stubborn wounds of all sorts have
done the same, but they have all
surrendered completely, just as
Mrs. Bewick’s has done, to the
great and invincible healing powers
of Zam-Buk Balm.
Mrs. Bewick says:—“l cannot suf-
ficiently express my gratitude for the
benefits I have derived from the use of
Zam-Buk Balm, and I have the greatest
pleasure in sending you the following
details of my wonderful cure.
“Some sixteen months ago, whilst
cooking at an open fireplace on Weetawaa
Station, Wee Waa, I was severely burnt
through my clothes catching fire. My
right leg and arm were almost roasted, the
leg being one great wound from the knee to the thigh. I was an inmate of the Wee Waa Hospital for
three months, but received no benefit from their treatment. I was then transferred to St. Vincent s
Hospital, Sydney, where I lay for another three long months with the same disappointing results
all the efforts of Doctors and Nurses failed to do me any good. At the end of that time the Doctors
at the Hospital told me they could do no more for me, and I was sent home. I was an invalid at home
for nearly four months, using the treatment prescribed at St. Vincent’s Hospital, hut still remaining
the same, and, what was more disheartening to me, without seeing a glimmer of hope of my ever being
cured. At this time a friend dropped in to see me, and, on telling her a few facts relative to my
trouble, she strongly urged me to give Zam-Buk Balm a trial. lat once acted on her recommendation,
and am thankful to say that after three months’ treatment with Zam-Buk I am perfectly cured.
The World’s Greatest Healer.
Keep a pot of Zam-Buk Balm handy for use in cases of sunburn,
rashes, insect bites, prickly heat, heat swelling's, cuts, burns, bruises,
eczema, ulcers, chafings; sox-e legs, backs, ankles, or feet; pimples,
fi
RUB IT m .
tions, etc. Of all
chemists & stores,
or post free from
the Zam-Buk Co.,
39 Pitt Street,
Sydney, for 1/6,
or 3/6 per pot.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE you used pears* soap ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion* If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion®
The Path of Souls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITH Death behind me with his goad,
Soon I must go the last, last road—-
That narrow, dreary, twilight track
Where, drifting slowly, yearning back,
Between two worlds our souls must go,
With slinking lizards green to show
The way to dim Te Reinga !
Then I shall feel the breezes die,
And all the land in silence lie,
And lean in loneliness to hear
The waterfalls speak words of cheer;
But they shall slip without a sigh,
And shuddering creeks creep noiseless by
Till I shall reach Te Reinga.
Silent, without a breath or moan,
Yet knowing I am not alone,
I, in my place in that long line,
Shall find, perchance, some human sign,
Shall see the lightly-trodden grass
Where, all unseen, the shadows pass
Their way to lone Te Reinga.
And in the ranks of marching Dead
With them the narrow path I tread,
And see where half-remembering lingers
A spirit lorn, with futile fingers,
Tying a knot of Waving grass
To show the way that I must pass
To Night and dark Te Reinga.
And I, in turn, shall pause and clutch
The living grass with lingering touch,
And leave the message of a knot
That I may not be all forgot
By those who, desolate and dumb,
Must come the way that I have come
To Life’s Last Door, Te Reinga.
Till I wait, shrinking from the Black,
On Haumu—Hill of Looking-Back—
To gaze once on the world I know,
The world of sunlight, ere I go
To that stark cliff that glooms ahead,
The piteous Pathway of the Dead,
The Gate of Souls, Te Reinga.
Where steep to the hushed sea it slopes
One crooked tree, the aka, gropes
With shrivelled fingers toward the realms
That Tangaroa overwhelms
With his slow-heaving world of waves—
A land of Nothingness and Graves,
The Farewell-Place, Te Reinga.
And I shall watch where gently sways
The patch of kelp that overlays
The doorway like a curtain grim—
Hell’s doorway to the Regions Dim ;
But I dare not delay o’ermuch :
For soft I feel the clammy touch
Of souls that crave Te Reinga.
And so one last look I shall give
To all these green things that may live
When I no more may see the sky ;
Then with shut lips—no moan nor cry,
But as a warrior who has won
His last fight when all wars are done—
Shall leap from grim Te Reinga.
A warrior who has won and failed,
Yet still the Crooked Gods assailed,
And, beaten down by doubt and pain,
Triumphant rose to fail again,
Contented now to leave behind
A knot of grass for friends to find
When they, too, seek Te Reinga !
N.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Window Blinds.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
,l LINDS? Leave ’em to me, M’ria.
C Hammer an’ nails ain’t woman’s tools,
-®— l " anyhow. Umph ! Umph!”
Samuel burrows head-foremost into his over-
alls. Blurred sounds reach me. “Umph” and
“Phew” announce him to be emerging from the
over-alls’ other end.
Again I catch the thread of the discourse:
“Now, I’m at home with a hammer—and as for
roller-blinds—huh ! Have ’em ready. No; no
time for details now. Goo’-bye. Late’s it is.” A
hasty kiss, a frantic clapping of all his pockets to
locate his many matchboxes, and my husband is
The question of the blinds settled, I lay the
rebellious linoleum with a lighter heart, and
when one o’clock comes, and with it Sam -cheer-
ful, eager for work, apparently capable—l thank
the powers that gave me such a prize in life s
.ottery.p^nd s a busy surroun ded with deal-
measuring, sawing, hammering; keeping his
temper well on the whole, still trying to wear
the mask of patience even when, at the last
moment, the roller splits in divers places, necessi-
tating its entire re-making.
Meanwhile I swathe the blinds—new and
cream-colored—in old linen, lest, in handling
them, Sam’s occupation as driver of a donkey-
engine should leave its imprint behind.
But liis temper has worn thin by the time he
wipes his flushed face on the blind-wrapper’s loose
end, and mounts the table, thence to a chair on
top of the table, and holds the result of his labor
above the window. . ,
“Howd’s it look, M ria, straight?” He
champs impatiently while I crane this way and
that, trying to answer conscientiously.
“Ye-es—l think it’s straight,” I reply, ner-
vously. No ? After all, I believe it’s a leetle
No, no, Samuel,” I add hastily, as a cloud darkens
the’ face of my beloved; “your work is not to
blame—the window frame perhaps ”
“Nonsense,” he interrupts rudely. “ How can
the window be crooked? It’s plumb, ain’t it?”
He turns upOmme the eye of a school inspector.
Like the dull scholar I shuffle. I don’t know the
meaning of “ plumb.”
“God bless-me-soul—thought a child’d know
that, leave alone a grown woman. Now, don’t
start a argument, M’ria ! Pass up the measure.”
An eye-to-eye interview with the measure
follows.
“Window’s plumb, o’ course. If anything’s
crooked, it’s the roller, ’ni’ if the roller’s crooked,
you must ’a’ given me the wrong measurements.
Here, Legs ” (for so he styles our olive branch),
‘‘come up. Hold on to this while I look—don t
dirty ’em now, them blinds run into a tidy bit.
Got it? Steady!” '
He steps off the chair into the saucer of tacks.
The saucer flattens into quite a pretty design m
mosaic, but Sam has no eye for the beautiful. He
merely swears, and sweeps the mosaic ruthlessly
to the floor with the blind.
The silver lining to this cloud is clearly seen.
The broken pieces of crockery keep baby absorbed
(and silent) for a period.
Sam remounts beside Legs. Both are, unaware
that a curly chair-leg is over the table’s edge
resting giddily on space. _
Sam has never believed this explanation of the
fall. From the time when he, Legs, myself, and
the chair writhed together, till now, he asserts
himself to have been pushed off.
He mounts again, broken in wind and temper.
This time the roller is straight. He complains
bitterly, while screwing into its splitting surface,
of his folly in “trying to work with a woman.’
Also he interrupts me in my work of wresting the
broken crockery from baby by yelling for some-
thing.
This is one of Sam’s peculiarities. He knows
his faintest whisper will reach my straining ears,
yet he yells. He yells now for brackets. These
are not immediately forthcoming. There should
be six brackets, i can produce but three. I
have, however, a surplus of swivels. These I
proffer. Sam rejects them with scorn.
“Brackets, I said, M’ria,” he snaps. “ B-r-a-
-k-e-t-s—-brackets.’’
“But I can’t find the brackets,” I venture
timidly. “ You see, dear, I bought the blinds at
a sale. ‘ Blinds and fixings cheap and complete,’
the auctioneer said, and of course ”
“Cheap! At that price ! An’ no brackets !
An’ there ain’t enough screws neither. Why
didn’ you keep your eyes open ? You got three
blinds; you want six brackets—’ere, ’ere and
’ere,” shouts Sammy. He. always loses his
aspirates when he wishes to be impressive.
Desperately I try to convince him that in
swivels, at any rate, I got my money’s worth, arid
am accused of want of logic. “Why, any darn
fool—oh, all right, all right—if you’re goin’ to snivel
about it. Here Legs, Legs ! ” He turns in hasty
command. It is unfortunate for me that he should
be grasping at this moment the longest blind-
roller. One end enters my eye and makes me
“pipe” it in earnest. The other end lifts the
epergne from the mantel. I ain incapacitated
from viewing the latter performance, but Legs
afterwards tells me that Pa did the trick with a
neatness worthy of a sleight-of-hand artist.
My hearing is still unimpaired, for even with one
eye held under the running tap, I hear my capable !
husband’s blighting commentary—on his family,'
his tools, and the blind wrapper, which by some
means has entrapped his feet.
Kicking himself free from this fetter, he yells
for Legs, and throws at him profuse wealth. “Go
for brackets,” he commands. “Brackets, mind,
’n’ if they offer you post-cards instead, don’t take
’em! Quick’s you like now! Here it’s four
o’clock —getting dark—an’ nothing done yet,
M’ria!” . A .
Samuel’s last shred of coolness is gone. Again
he steps off his chair. Again a saucer is sacrificed.
With a royal gesture he sweeps the tacks into his
tool pocket, which spreads over his rear parts, and
remounts the chair.
Next time he steps off, he steps on to Gran’ma,
who has just “looked in.”
The impact is great. Gran’ma has large, fleshy
areas, and Sam would have found her a cushiony
seat had the tacks not come between. Both are
badly punctured. Sam can never see the humor-
ous side of things. He dusts Gran’ down un-
gently, and draws tacks from himself, growling
all the while. My sympathies are all with my
parent, yet I side with the growler. I have to
live with him.
Neither Legs nor brackets being on the spot, I
mount and hand in rotation to the toiler measure,
nail and hammer, accommodate surplus nuts
between my teeth, and from time to time hold the
now wrapperless blind beneath my elbow.
Gran’ma holds the floor. I see her jaws moving
in condemnation. Her voice is drowned by the
hammer’s assault on the timber.
Then comes Legs bearijig the brackets. Sam
pounces on the parcel feverishly, and opens it,
and the house is rent by a great cry. “ Swivels,”
he screams. “ Lor’-a-mighty, the Mick’ead’s
brought more swivels.” Consternation. Legs in
the witness-box. Sure enough, he has brought
swivels. We now have ten of these articles, while
the bracket total remains at three. /
“I did arst for brackets,” whimpers Legs,
the harried. “ They knoo I wanted brack ” —-—
‘ ‘ Take ’em back, mutton’ead ! ’Ere, M’ria —
write it down, B-r-a-k-e-t-s brackets. Lor,
bless me, this job’s ” etc.
Legs has to be spurred away on this new errand
with stealthy bribes in copper. Returning to the
scene of labor, I find Sam has “thrown back” to
a state of savagery. He is threatening Gran’ma
with the hammer. Round his loins, in place of a
lion’s skin, is girded the blind wrapper. His
work-blackened hand is decorating the now de-
fenceless blind with a weird design in shadow-
work.
I am too heartsick for protest, enduring even in
silence the tearing of the lace frill with his boot
tag.
Darkness is coming on. A light is now neces-
sary for the delicate work of adjusting the loops.
I do my best as torch-bearer with the kitchen
lamp. Looking down, I see Gran’ma’s vast bosom
heaving tumultuously. She voices the imposition
on me—her child. She calls for volunteers to
hoist her to the table. She intends, not only to
come up, but to put Sam down. She appeals to
me for haulage.
“ Let ’er up, M’ria,” hisses Sam, with nails be-
tween his teeth, “ an’ I’ll knock ’er on the ’ead
with the ’ammer. Keep us apart if you value ’er
—Got ’em ? ” he barks in an altered key.
He grabs the brackets from an upheld hand.
While he affixes the first, we form ourselves
into a search party on all fours—the missing
articles being the screws.
Gran’ma locates them positively, inside baby,
who indeed is looking strangely pale.
The remaining brackets are jabbed up with
four-inch nails. In a religious silence the blind is
placed. Sam pulls the cord and up it shoots —
crooked as the narrow path.
Then Sam’s wrath breaks loose indeed. He
falls upon the blind, drags it from its bearings,
wipes his hands upon it, mops his smoking head
with it, and, throwing it on the table, consigns it
and the whole race of blinds to perdition. He
is still on the table when,the lamp goes out. In
the confusion it has been overturned and its con-
tents spread generously over the helpless blind.
Samuel on his perch loses his bearings. Having
been stepping backward all day he now steps
violently forward, and is gone. There is a crash,
a howl, a cold wind blowing through a shattered
window, and outside a sound of profuse swearing.
WEKROONA.


Does Your Back
Ever Ache ?
p.‘
~'FIJOIS V S//9f
ajiijdrd fijorijg
Don’t make light of
a pain in the back. It
means there is conges-
tion and inflammation
in the kidneys : —that
the kidneys are
clogged and inactive,
can’t do their whole
duty of filtering the
blood. It means the
circulation of impure
blood throughout the
body, a weakening of
■ U,WA "
and vital organ.
Doan’s Kidney Pills
have a quick and
direct action on the
kidneys. They drive
out the poisons that
infest tlie blood,
cleanse and stimulate
* fite sts
V
SYDNEY MAN CURED,
8. Africa, March Ist, 1901:—“I ra . y „i Klsed to st „ tl! lhllt we h , vo "„
famous Doiin s Backache Kidney Pills i„ the midst of our ,~„t IZ
very much troubled in the early part of the campaign with pains all over me
and e Spin“ mthTd Y °“ “V trekkinff ilbout 111 bad weather!
d s eeping on the damp ground, and one would want an iron Constitution to
Withstand the inroads' on the system. Many mornings I have tried to <mt un
Mt inclined? obtained assistance. My agony was often so had that'l have
ufferM? 111?" ”°t ne ° f \ he enemy ’ S fire and P ut ™ end to my
er ngs. All the military doctors who treated -me failed to do me anv good
One day a comrade gave me three boxes of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pill/ and
the cure M The b ° X me Rreatly ; the thir d. bo.x completed
medicine ““did XsTt "” d ‘ h °' n - «* “’ 65 ' ™' V this
■On lith March, 1908, Mrs. Grace says:—“My husband has been free of
years ago?? 16 “““ D ° an ’ S Backache Kidney P 'lls cured him, seven
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure Inflamma-
tion of the Kidneys and Bladder, Pain or
Dull Ache in the Back, Joints and
Muscles; cure Gravel, Weak Heart,
and all Urinary Troubles.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2/9 per box
(six boxes 15/3), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
mt
|gcKA«tsK
45511?
*2
Piles
Cured After Years of Suffering 1 —
Proof that Doan’s Ointment
Will Cure Piles.
Piles rarely kill, but they cause constant
torture. Tins is especially true in the case of
those who are ever so slightly constipated.
1 lies can. be quickly and permanently cured'
\vithout pain, cutting, or detention from
business. This has been proved in thousands
of cases of both sexes and of all ages, and in
trie very worst as well as in ordinary cases.
No one who has not suffered the tortures of
itching, painful and bleeding Piles can appre-
ciate for a moment the marvellous sense of
relief that follows the use of Doan’s Ointment.
Go at once and get a pot of this ointment • it
will end your sufferings.
Mrs, F. Flynn, Melbourne Cleaning and
Dyeing Co., 232 Darling Street, Balmain ■
Sydney, says: “No one likes their health
troubles to be made public, but if the know-
ledge will be.the means of saving other people
years of suffering, then I think.it a duty to
naake a public statement. For.over 12 months
I suffered from protruding Piles; the pain of
this terrible complaint prevented me from
getting proper rest at night, and so I could
not do my work. I was really in a bad state,
and the pain nearly drove me mad. I cannot
now remember.all the remedies I used • I not
everything I heard about, but it was only
waste,of time, for they did not even give me
ease. YVhen at my worst, I commenced using
.Doan s Ointment. I got immediate relief,
and one pot cured me. I earnestly recom-
mend all sufferers to try this wonderful Oint-
ment.
Two years later Mrs. Flynn has .something
else to say. on this subject : “Ihave now had
time to test my cure, for it is two years since
1 used Doan’s Ointment, and I am pleased to
teli you that I am still free of the torture of
Files. I cannot find words to express my
gratitude to Doan’s Ointment for my per-
manent cure.”
When we say that Doan’s Ointment will
cure Files, we mean exactly ■ what* <we s.iy
nothing more or less, and it is because of the
thousands who have been cured that we are
able to say this. The abovy is one instance :
vve have similar testimony from every town in
Australia. Doan’s OintiiAent is sold by all
chemists and storekeepers/at 2s. 9d. per pot, or
nii Pasted on receiW of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But, be sure you get/DOAN’S.
A Celestial Pickle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHOWS are queer people,” observed the
old pilot. “ I've been only 20 years
among them, so can’t be expected to
know much. If I live another 20 years I may
know something.
e were taking stores in a barque from
Vladi vostock down to Chefoo. We shipped a
number of Chow passengers. Chows do a lot of
business in Vladivostok. Whenever a new
Russian arrives there seems to be a new Chow
waiting to carry his baggage and show him to the
hotel. Chow is becoming the language of the
people. Ah Sin doesn’t want to settle for a while
yet. He only wants the roubles. He’s very
patriotic, and likes to return to his native land.
>Ve had a lot of Chows aboard.
‘ Wo Pat was a big merchant, solemn and im-
portant. He was fond of food, but not our
brand. A Chow can digest anything most times,
but our pork was the limit. Wo Fat pined away.
Che situation became grave. I of
the barque, and had to act as doctor. I could
never understand Chow anatomy.
Wo Pat lay on his bunk one night groaning,
in a deep bass voice. He was unwell. I dosed
him. Next morning Wo was dead. I’ve killed
a lot of people out of kindness, and with the best
of motives.
“ The mate got very excited. ‘ What can we
do ( he wailed.
Chuck him overboard,’ said I.
“ ‘ He's a rich merchant,” said the mate : ‘ he
mightn’t like it.’
“That was true. Chows don’t like being
chucked overboard. They all want, to be buried
in their native place. Very conservative people,
the Chows. They have no consideration for other
people s feelings.
If we dump him to the fish,’ explained the
mate, there may be a mutiny.’ We had a lot of
Chow passengers.;
<£ ie uiate had an idea.
You’ve got gin, haven’t you ? ’
“ * I have,’ said I.
“ ‘ Plenty gin ?’
“l It ou ght to last to Chefoo, if we’re careful.”
<£ £ f,f! ave : ‘ t ' Can’t we preserve him in it ? ’
‘ What ! ’ ‘
“ ‘ Preserve Wo Fat in it till he gets home ’
dead Cho,"’.' Wa, ‘ e 400 bo “' eS “ f go ° d ” *
“The mate was obstinate. ‘We can’t risk
offending Wo s religious prejudices. We’ll have
to get him home, somehow. I prefer him pickled
to fresh. He wouldn’t keep.’
I promised to think the matter over. We
had to waste our gin or risk a rebellion. Strange
things happen at sea.
“ Now Wo Fat had a brother, also a Vladivos-
tock trader. He was deeply interested in the
family crisis I drew him into the seclusion of
my cabin to discuss the subject.
What can do ? ’ I asked.
“ The brother shook his head. He was a
prudent man.
Put Wo overboard ? 5 I suggested.
“‘No can do,’ he shrieked. This brother
was also religious in his Celestial way. Ancestor
worship takes a tight hold on the Chow. Wo
had to be buried in the tomb of his ancestors—
tnere seemed no way of dodging that.
“ ‘ Will we pickle him ?’ I asked. ‘He won’t
do fresh. ’
“ T , he brother agreed that Wo had to be trans-
ported to Chefoo, but he didn’t mind much how.
1 looked at him straight. ‘lt’ll take 400
bottles of gin—the best gin—to do the job.’
“ He smiled complacently.
“ ‘ And gin’s a dollar a bottle. ’ The dollar was
woith 4s. then. Times have changed.
“ ‘ Who pay ? ’ asked the bland brother.
You pay.’
“ ‘ How much that piece ? ’
‘ 1 ‘ Say, 400 dollars. ’
He nodded his head. He was a deeply re-
lgmus man, and agreed to pay, for at all costs
n o hat had to be taken to his ancestral home
Is that a deal ?’
“ The bereaved brother twitched his pigtail
“ inquired innocently, ‘ Who get emptee
“Chows are clever at business. They don’t
miss much. J
“ ‘ You can have them,’ I said.
And the matter was settled.
, Wel j> we g ot a big water-cask and took out the
top. We wrapped Wo in his blanket, with his
opium pipe and other personal trifles, and put him
in- A group of Chows crowded round to watch
the impressive ceremony. The gin was brought
out. A tunnel was inserted into the cask. The
boatswain opened the bottles. As the fine liquor
was poured out the supercargo counted, calling,
out monotonously 1,2, 19, 84, 147, 321, and so
on. The corpse’s brother stood over him all the
time to check any mistake in the figures. It took
about 400 bottles of our best gin. It was hard on
us poor seamen, but Wo Fat seemed to like the
dnnk. He absorbed a lot. When the last drop
trickled into the cask, the good brother nodded
his head. Fie was satisfied with our honesty,
ihen we fixed up the bung, and deposited Wo
Fat in a cool spot.
“We drank rum for the rest of that painful
voyage.
“In time we reached Chefoo. The news soon
spread, and an army of Wo Fat’s relatives (he had
a terrible quantity of relatives, for he had been
highly successful in Vladivostock) swarmed up the
gangway. They brought his beautiful Chinee
coffin that had been in the family for years, also a
joss, bundles of sweets and flowers, colored lan-
terns, candles, all kinds of affectionate tokens of ’
esteem.
“ The mate shivered when the cask was brought
out. Perhaps his inspiration was a failure. I
wasn’t anxious to-open that cask, so put the mate
in charge. If anything had gone wrong with Wo
Fat there were enough relatives there to murder us.
“Lo! it was a beautiful job. Wo Fat was
perfectly pickled. His skin had turned almost
white. We always carried the best gin.
All the relatives were delighted. They fired
off crackers to celebrate the event. Indeed so
for the cask 6 *n hat they gave me 200 dolla r s
for the cask and the gin. They meant to spare
“ TfoT to , make the fu neral feast a success,
ino- J;, f. brothe f smiled benignantlyon themourn-
w eS ' He was a bi S man that day.
his orlfoff’ P’ ckled white > looked dignified in
fU C °w n ; , The relatives carried off the
v ° s brother ordered his coolies to
LtTsfiS empty bottles - Everyb f? was
else since!” thinfr Eve drunk nothi »S
GANESHA .
How We Saved Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILL ROBINSON, the chemist, Dick Mason
Jim, and I,
Resolved to face the foeman, resolved to
do or die.
ln MaSOn ’ s in deep and solemn
Close-stoppered in a bottle the secret THING- we
The rjw ng that floeS ‘ fc quiet with neither fuss nor
A ' US Ghow 3 fated bulwark ’& ain st th’ embattled
The white South-East had trembled, the brown
IN orth-East awoke,
The slant-eyed legions mustered their dull, miend-
Behind ten thousand cannon a million rifles
gleamed,
And steame*d e - Pa^ent; oCean their myriad warships
Then, while the nations trembled, we took the
secret vow
T ° Chow AUSfclalia ’ S Pe ° Ple ’ and overth row the
Fr °bomid aSald SOuthward to Burmah’s northern
fl " Uer ' ‘Wrdr un ,sW
Aus^nri a i ad ° ne B ' unboat ’ and quite .two thou-
ottnci men,
The „uX“d“,. her Sea ' W “ ll we ”* r “‘
Then in our secret council we took the solemn vow
7 Chow. meanS Hnd peaceful to overcome the
Bill TH°iNG, SOn had foUnd IT ’ the wondr ous, secret
We tried it on the rabbits and seabirds on the
And o£ e s g,L“ i l°e" S ,remMelJ “" d
W9 ”r.iSir e,ul tmder ,nd spr “ d
We 5s Xw“ nq " erin * Wf » re
So sped the schooner Moses to pacify the Chow.
AII dawn SUmmer darkn ess before the break of ,
A Can ton d WeW fr ° m seaward °’ er slumbering
As from the stoppered bottle we let the essence
And bye r the SUn had riSGn S6fc Sail and said g° od -
The nnT r f°.ii ght T ? E THING the w °nder, we could
not tell you how,
BUt ingChow eaCefell shoreward upon the sleep-
Wit bieattd; CrOWded dty a Subtle P^fume
Ifc Cr w?LThed nd the C ° Urfcyard : aboufc the tower it
W,t biers’ l dmT Vded ° hamber ft stayed the R a m-
It petrified for ever the snoring Mandarin,
Th6 miS th*e „o”w f the pr ° vinoe ’ the “ ; " k •>>“
It smote to endless silence the avalanche of Chow.
The sea-breeze bore it inland to fields of ripening
It: C trice mission conver t and caught him in a
It choked the population, but did it pleasantly ;
nmrow “ h3 ' PPy dreamin S with neither fuss
TiD Chow WaS lrft t 0 bUliy the dead and c °untless
r bouruf *° ■^ a^asakl "> southward to Burmah’s
We waged the war of nations with neither blood
nor sound.
G ' ril sea the bre6Zy darkness we swept the silent
And destiny afc daWn and midnight the corks of
None trembled at our coming, none feared our
peaceful prow, uur
BUt Cho d J ard bleached the mi lhons of desiccated
What ails the slant-eyed people? The Asian
world is dumb,
thrills the cables, no warrior legions
Why stays the battle thunder? Why sleeps the
rending gun ? F
Where hides the Dragon standard ? Where
droops the Rising Sun ?
Beh vow Al ° ne We d ' d it ’ the men Wh ° made the
To loose Bill’s anaesthetic upon the'hostile Chow.
And so the white man’s country is safe from
taint of brown,
The Kangaroo in triumph still waves o’er Svdnev
town; •’ I
Eire all the guns, for lo ! the schooner Moses
comes in view, '
And tr C ue Wn ’ Uke Alexander ’ Bi H Robinson, the
Hooray ! The wreath of gum-leaves is on the
victor s brow !
All Asia cannot muster six dozen head of Chow ’
MAORI!, AND.' - - - * -
D.M.W.


“I have worked on the Barrier off and on for several years, and
1 had to lose a good many shifts
through ill health. I could neither
eat nor sleep well. In fact, work of
any kind was out of the question
until I struck a good thing in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I had only taken one
bottle when I felt a lot better. In
all, I have taken seven bottles and
now am quite well. I always tell any
one that feels off color to take Ayer s
Sarsaparilla and it will put them in
' working order.”
J. W. Scott,
Broken Hill, N. S. W.
32&KTMS 2S*Sr4»
AYER’S § arsaparilla
will strengthen the stomach and make the digestive juices
As a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion we cannot recommend it
too strongly.
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you ge
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other kind put up in imitation of it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowed, Mass., U. S. A.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
GHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
/lets like a Charm in DIARRHOEA
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, toothache.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 j£, 2/9, & 4/6
Superior to
INJECTIONS
I CUBEBS and
1 COPAIBA.
* Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears tke name
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
eolleetionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
■ . ’ V'./vV . c -
Wearae 8 Breakspear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government
Contractors.
’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to e™rv home—
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flits
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
aold by
Wholesale
n ruggists.
Grocer’s and
I Hardware
Dealtil,
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd-.
O’Connell St.; F. H. Paulding & Co.. ° Connell |*- •
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co.. 268 Pitt bt.,
Australian Drug Co.. O’Connell St. ; Sayers 4U[wrt
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung &Co Pvtt Sfc,
Feldlieim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers. Brooklyn, N.Y..U.S.A.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETBN'S EYE OIMTMEHT.
In ttae ttewa .Ijlft
Australian Blight, Weak Sight
i for its history—the book is free—or write
Ask your chemist for its history-the book is free-or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng^
:.-v
■
Imparts to Metal the
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name.
Ask for SOLARINE,
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
SEEDS
Q-V.
NO I
MONEY
WANTED
Tn order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
1 into every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS SOLID GOLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have
to do is. to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE. TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d.
par packet, send us our money (6/-> and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand list.
■#E TRUST YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
' iera ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
‘ - SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
M’S N ‘A3 NO AS iS ONQa SB°Q AlddOS Q33S
A MERRY-MINDED MAN
shows his temperament in his face. His eyes are laughing eyes.
His outlook is joyous and attractive. He is optimistic to a degree,
and you may be sure his body is attuned to his mind. No dyspeptic
he. No biliousness in his composition. No dizzy headaches in his
experience; and depend upon it he is a wise man as well as a
merry man, and
IS MADE AND KEPT SO
by the regular use of Beecham's Pills. For it is now a generally
accepted fact that as a preventive and curative medicine these pills
are absolutely reliable in their results, and there are few troubles
arising from disorders of the stomach, liver, bowels or kidneys that
they will not speedily cure. The ultimate result is the healthy
magnetic personality of the happy man or woman. You are certain
to carry a light heart if you feel really well, and this you
raay always do gy
BEECH AM’S
PILLS-
Sold everywhere itt b.oxes, price I Ilk (56 pills) & 219(168 pills')*
ugstkaus*#
+2SH
\
Windmill Philosophy
is being expounded daily by
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
next BAY BOAD STATION, NOBTH SYDNEY.
Get a book of the words (Dept. 0 will supply
one gratis) and study it, especially the part
explaining why a windwheel, supported by
a bearing on EACH SIDE, will run
twice as easy and years longer than the
ordinary overhanging type.
The “Steel Wings”
is stronger, steadier and more powerful
than any other mate.
It has a balanced pump-rod to assist its even
running, and therefore does not lock at, the
bottom of the pumping stroke.
Pumps, piping, troughing and full-way ball
valves supplied at lowest rates.
e Bulletin
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
j^ o . v. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. -VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Brewings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns. L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McOrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - 10 d.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21k George Street, Sydney.
0 0
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatlv reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. .. .. .. .. £3 15 0
S Double-Barrei Breech-leading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
crqss-bolt. Usual Price, £S 15s. Sale Price.. £5
3 Single-Barrel Hamtnerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £B. Sale Price ... .. ... ..£ll2 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. •• ■■ i 5 16 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual urice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price ■ 9
All the above guns are complete with oartriage
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carnage paid to
ny address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
ON THE HOP’
*
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
Or. John Martin, M.D. &o.
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Man and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia, for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, over 600
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Tour-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those «M*|ed
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encycio-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. No similar book has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain-the work from anyofthe Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in tte country aiid adjacent
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt-of stamps to cover postage. .
ins mav be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address .
FREE
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing
gs E/tnley House
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


YOU NEED A MACINTOSH
And as each week brings us nearer
Z 1 "I 1 need « more and
more. Why not get the coat to-day,
fche benefifc o { it right
away? We are offering a splendid
thoroughly waterproof
ana made of various textures, for 30/-
» fit and wear the coat
raubj and is exce «ent
inthJ L tb Oi° ne y- Kis made up
able stvfp WeS V° oBe - fltting: condflrt -
‘™? style, and we can ensure a
perfect fit if you send your height
and easy chest measurement. Send
the order right away—now.
PERDRIA U RUBBER Co. Ltd.
“ The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T. K. STEANES,
\ *
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL ENGINEER.
Quotations given fox*
the Installation of Complete Electrical Equipments .
large Stocks of Dynamos, Motors and Electrical Accessories kept in Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADfc.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: JfIWJBS Hclf*C!iG & C 0. 5
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN post CARDS-New
Series, IV., V,, VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
■
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
nftDß1 _ or Motor Driven For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE MoINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc
a ” l]r ~ J - & SHTCEAIR, Elista „„, 8a PI,, ss , Sy(^ ey .
merchant
Technical Staff.
N.B. Ltd.
Electrical aai Mechanical.
Em S. & Am
i/iMni V *» j _ r ' mBERSs KING & GEORGE i
kindly allow us to give you quotations for any
& GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY .
■
YOU MAY REQU
SAW MILLING MACHINERY.
Agents for Allis Chalmers Co.
PLMTS.
Johnson & Phillips Cables (N.8.W.)
LAME GAS ENGINE UNITS, etc.
Ferranti Ltd.
Mergaeite Brushes, etc.
EDITION
PRICE
'■' }■' ■ ‘ ':
OF
_
Postage—N.S.W.,
7d.; other States, 1/2.
Office, 214
J. A.
NEWEST AND MOST IMPROVED TYPES OF
S
BAND SAW MILLS
ESTIMATES FERN,SHED. WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Mo e ,r: —-
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Be ’ KheS> *"• UU “
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CONCENTRATION.
The SPERRY SUMER
Has Successfully Separated SILVER,
LEAD, COPPER, and TIN PULP.
The Simple Adjustments which are so effective adapts this invention to ail classes
o le. UNSURPASSED TESTIMONIALS TO HAND. (Write).
The Slimes Difficulty Solved.
Th 9 IMPROVED SPERRY
N - GUTHRIDGE Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.
