

The Whisky for Men of Taste.
Hfc. C3r. WATELCKiS' dfc CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
. —for— . _ ;
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
* AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Jeffrey Conveyors
and Elevators.
See Wild Cat Column.
-——
Radley s Orient |jotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *'•
GUARANTEED.
«/. C. Ludowsci & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
~~=A
Take !t back,
I must have
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS 2
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
Awarded 129 Prize Medals ,
JUEKEHOa.
unket,
Guaranteed Reliable and Pure.
Cili,
U
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
1 t s s I lie Twisted Goodness
|%#Jfcor4s 99 _ __.
the lyres of the moment—the Tyres that are as different to all others as a modern P Class Railway Engine is to a Cobb & Co.’s Mail Coach.
THE PALMER CORD TYRES
Write for further information before
you purchase any other kind of Tyre.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER GO. , 279 George Street 9 SYDNEY.
I
dfgds
gsdfg
isthe Queen of ail Cocoas
;
|
liie climate of Australia is naturally an outdoor one, particularly during the summer.
To spend summer evenings and nights to the best advantage is to construct a flat roof
over at least some portion of the home, upon which eating, sleeping and promenading
can be enjoyed under the most healthy conditions. REINFORCED MALTHOID is
absolutely the best material for making flat roofs. Write us for further information.
sdfg
THB PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
“The Hercules” Refrigerating Machine.
c. a. Macdonald,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
g»v
sdfg
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send fob, Catalogues.
BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street,
THORNE’S WHISKY.
sfd
One Star (Q. Three Star
WATER
The Helidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive distribution, has
pkced “the rational water cure ” within reach of all
8 BAILOR AN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.30.—N0. 1545.]
[Thursday, September 23, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CHEAP EDITION— NOW READY. Cloth 3s. 6d., postage 7d.
IN AUSTRALIAN TROPICS,
By ALFRED SEARCY, fourteen years Sub=Collector of Customs at Port Darwin, Northern
Territory, with a map and 55 illustrations from photographs. Cloth 3s. 6d., postage 7d.
“An astonishing and exciting narrative.”— The Bulletin. “One of the most interesting volumes to hand for many
days.”— Queenslander. “ Prom end to end there is not a dull page in the volume.”— Advertiser.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
Suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods."
B
o p
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps frfwn HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD,, 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
The difference between the rotter and the
capable hand is shown in L. J. Vance’s The
Bronze Bell, and R. Harding Davis’s The
White Mice (per G. Robertson and Co.).
The first-named American wrote a clever
story of its kind called The Brass Bold ;• his
next concoction, The Black Bag, was less
interesting ; and his latest is a farrago of
incredible incidents in America and India,
without form and void. All the old properties
of the mystery faker are dragged in, without
creating any mystery or holding the reader’s
interest. The White Mice, however, is a
good workmanlike story, in which a stalwart
American youth plumps into a thrilling ad-
venture in Venezuela and a dashing love
affair at the same time. The long stories of
Harding Davies are not so amusing as his
early short yarns about Gallegher and Van
Bibber, but they have plenty of go, and The
White Mice is the best we have read since
Soldiers of Fortune.
* * * *
Over Brave Blue Seas, by Will Brooke
(The Century Press), looks like a transcript
from experience. The hero visits Australia
two or three times, worked as rouseabout
for a time up country, and met here e
damsel he subsequently married. The beauty
of the sea and ships fascinated him often in
his career, but he refrains from any purple
outbursts in prose. Occasionally the splendor
of the scene overcomes him, and he naively
“invokes the muse.” The book is worth
reading as a spirited account of the adventures
which befall a seaman in the merchant service
of to-day. #
The career of the commercial adventurer,
who begins with nothing but determination
and climbs into millions, has been so staled
by fact and Samuel Smiles that a, novelist
must give it extra frills to make it attract-
ive. Reginald Turner has done this in
Samson Unshorn (Angus and Robertson).
His hero is suggested by Harmsworth, and
achieves success by giving the public what
it wants in newspapers. His first venture
is 11.1.1 X, professing to tell in snappy para-
graphs How It’s Done —unlocking the secrets
of the civilised world. This journal grows like
the banyan tree. Then the owner establishes
Daily Opinion to echo the voice of the man
in the street, and it is even more successful.
A good love story winds its way through the
onward Career of tlfe Napoleon of the Press,
who differs from Harmsworth in declining a
peerage.
“ Wang,” on the sorrows of the librarian :
Mr. Lendmonish Cohen isn’t in it with some
lending library subscribers when it comes to
getting a return for their cash. ■ The sub-
scription rate to most of the suburban estab-
lishments (Vic.) starts as low as 2s. Cd. per qr.
for one book and a magazine at a time. That
solitary half-crown wouldn’t buy one book,
as 2s. 9d. (less a small discount) is the trade
price for a novel published at 3s. 6d. Many
Voracious readers will take out three or four
books a week and the same number of maga-
zines. I know of several who take out a
book a day, though the Lord only
knows what they do with them. In a quarter
costing them 2s. 6d., such a subscriber
borrows reading material that costs the
library anything from £5 to £lO for books
alone, and about half that amount for maga-
zines—say £7 to £l5 worth altogether.
They read up the lists of new books reviewed
iii the newspapers each week, and their cries
for the newest stuff on the market are loud
and deafening. The excuses of the harassed
bookman are sneered at; he must either
strain his purse by getting the latest or else
shut up shop. Certainly, he has his books
and magazines for his very own at the end of
the quarter ; but generally, by that time,
they are just about fit for a funeral pyre.
♦-
TO DORA.
In the tinted dayspring of a London alley,
Where the melting moonlight cools the sunburnt
lane,
Deep in the flare and the colored noise of suburbs
Long have I sought you in the shade and shine
and rain! . .
Through dusky byways rent with dancing
naphthas,
Through the trafficked highways where streets
'and streets collide,
Through the evil twilight, the night’s ghasfc
silence, , .
Long have I wandered and wondered where you
hide.
Young lip to young lip, does another meet you ?
Has a lonely pilgrim, when day was stark and
long; :
Drawing ever slower to the grey road’s ending,
Reached a sudden summer of sun and flower and
spng?
Has he seen in you the world’s one yearning,
All the season’s message, the sky’s sweet play;
Read in you at last the riddle of the heavens ?
Have you to another been the dark’s one ray ?
Wei}, if one has held you, and, holding you, beheld
you,
Shining down upon him like a single star;
If Love to Love leans, even as the June sky,
Laughing down to earth, leans strangely close
and far ;
Has he seen the moonlight mirrored in the bloomy
Sudden-living gloom of your dear dark hair,
And, seeing it, has worshipped and cried again
for Heaven —
Then am I joyful for a fire-kissed prayer !
Thomas Burke (in The Nation).
MUSE-HAUNTED.
He heard (and dreamed HColus, on
The moon’s gold horn, was blowing)
The music of far Helicon
A-down Parnassus flowing.
And, with that strange sad ecstasy
Of men, who, slowly sailing,
Behold a mermaid in the sea,
Below their lantern-railing,
Spark like a star within the wave—
So he, with yearning, listened,
While high above his shad’wy cave
The eye of Venus glistened.
The hawk, entowered in the sky
The lonely lord of Heaven,
At day-break saw him solit’ry ;
And yet again at even.
N.S.W.
HUGH McGRAE.
A German View of Australia
Australien in Politik , fFir'tschaft, Kultur
is the title of a large volume by Dr. Robert
Schachner, a German professor, who recently
visited Australia, its subject may be Eng-
lished as “The Condition of Australia in
Politics, Economics and Culture.” Its
method is that which German scholarship
has made famous in all the civilised world—
the method of wissenschaftliche Forschung,
scientific investigation, and Griindlichkeit,
thoroughness. “ Science ” and “ thorough-
ness ” are the watchwords of academic Ger-
many, and its productions often do them
highest honor.
But German thoroughness, unaided by a cer-
tain share of an artist’s intuition and sym-
pathy, often has this grave defect : it is all too
comprehensive and all too accumulative.
Something about everything has to go into the
investigator’s note-book and the merest
nothing must tell its own tale. A quite
fictitious value is given to things that only
the investigator knows : the quartz and mul-
lock become to him as valuable as the gold
with which it was his purpose to enrich the
world’s store. Perhaps the German mind is
specially prone to the error of vision that
makes -it unable to see the wood
for the trees. Australians might, at
least, be pardoned for thinking so. Our
French investigators have gone away with
ideas of our life which, in broad and
luminous and subtle expression, have made
us think about ourselves in new ways —and
with more admiration of the French, who
are already so high in the world’s respect for
native gifts of analysis and generalisation,
if/
Dr. Schachner’s book, is completely Ger-
man in its merits wand its shortcomings.
And it is German decidedly not of the best.
Hvery Australian should read it and admire
the devotion to knowledge, as well as the
unstinted labor that must have gone to its
making. Dr. Schachner was a “dozent” —
a sort of professor on trial —in the University
of Heidelberg. The German University sys-
tem offered the sacrifice of two years of his
work in order that he might go to Australia
and study it at firsthand. He' on his part,
left the comfortable position of a Herr Pro-
fessor among his own people to become any-
thing from plain “ Dutchy ” to “Bill the
rouseabout ” in this new country, if by that
means he might learn as he could not
from books. For a year and three-quarters
he wandered from our tropic North to our
temperate South, through the cities, over
the wheat areas, on to the sheep-stations,
the vineyards and the sugar plantations.
He took the Parliaments, the public meet-
ings, the churches, the schools, and pleasure-
resorts in his passage, eyes and ears open,
fingers itching for the documents that lay
around, pockets stretched to bursting with
all sorts of memoranda. For three months
he shared the toilsome existence of the
workers in the shearing-shed, the factory,,
and the mine. All honor for that to the
Germans and this German.
The result of Dr. Schachner’s investiga-
tion is introduced by an expression of thanks
that almost disarms criticism: “To the
workers who taught me to love the Austra-
lian people, and to have faith in its future.”
Who can ask more than to be loved in spite
of his faults and trusted in spite of his mis-
takes ? But criticism must be. Red Page
readers will expect it in regard to the observa-
tions on Australian culture, at least.
Unluckily those are among the weakest
made by Dr. Schachner. But they are fairly
typical. He is thorough, but largely in the
non-essential and the misleading. He is
scientific, to most mortal effect. The book
is a mighty compilation without trace of
artistic sense and sympathy. It gives no
impression of life. It has no apt or enlight-
ening generalisation. It fails even to show a
proper appreciation Of the value of evidence.
Its main advantage over other books written
about us from afar lies in the wealth of
detail about things heard and seen—the
chronicle of small beer, and often of a sort
that is either stale or badly affected by an
infusion of prejudice. And Dr. Schachner’s
knowledge of the English language appears
faulty enough to suggest that he had an in-
sufficient preparation, if not a natural in-
ability for learning in the foreign tongue.
Patriotism, too, gives some funny twists
to Dr. Schachner’s record of his investi-
gations. It will be news to most Aus-
tralians that they have an all-infecting
“hostility for Germany.” It is true that
Australia contains a strong German ele-
ment, is proud of it, and has many other
good reasons for a friendly sentiment to-
wards Germany. No matter. Scratch the
Australian and you find an Anti-German.
The press tickles the palate of its readers
with slanders upon German women. The
public Art Galleries represent German
painters only by Angelika Kaufmann, Men-
zel, Earl Heffner and “the German-
Englishmau ” Herkomer. And “this dis-
piteful treatment of German Art is trace-
able to the aversion that Australians
have for Germany.” Probably no Aus-
tralian ever uttered or read a scandalous
word about German women—certainly no
regular press blackguardism on the subject
would be tolerated. As certainly the mali-
cious artistic boycott does not exist. Dr.
Schachner does not seem to know wherein
lies the supreme artistic glory of his own
nation in modern times. It is in Music.
And German music floods the concert plat-
forms of Australia, is studied in thousands
of Australian homes. Australian music goes
into a few lines of his huge book, and those
are among the driest.
vl;
It’s a very dry light, too, that Dr. Schachner
sheds upon the rest of Australian Art.
He knows that Henry Archibald Lawson,
“as farmer, tradesman, coach-painter, and
as a hungry and perpetually thirsty poet,
came to understand Australian life and the
wretchedness of the poor”; also that he
‘ ‘ produced excellent pictures *in numerous
masterly sketches particularly to be found
in the two volumes of While the Billy Boils.”
Dr. Schachner is even aware that Lawson is
“of Norwegian extraction, though himself a
son of New South Wales,” and that he was
“ born in 1867.” But that does not carry
us far. The Lone Hand has already given
a French professor’s view of the same frus-
trate genius, a view as evidently the result
of reading and thinking as this of the Ger-
man professor is compiled from names and
dates and descriptions alone. The contrast
is helpful. Professor Saillens sees the man
in his creations, and his creations in the life
of the Australian people, and that people
again not cut off from its European sources,
but rounding to an independent mind that
has not yet quite found itself. Professor
Schachner sees as good as nothing beyond a
few brute facts. Your Frenchman must
rationalise his facts.
W
Lawson is a poet of the people—the term
being used in no other than a respectful
sense. Neither ff. B. O’Hara nor J. Le Gay
Brereton, nor 0. J. Brennan, nor Bernard
O’Dowd would be called so, and for different
reasons. But Dr. Schachner is no more
illuminative in regard to them. O’Hara is
compared, for his “fragrant descriptions of
landscape, and his songs,” to a late 18th
century German poet, one Matthison—a
melancholy sentimental poetaster of an
utterly dead and gone time. On which side
the honor lies need not be asked. But
wherein consists the use and appropriateness
of the comparison, as part of an appreciation
of Australia ? It is one of those things that
“no f’ler can tell.” Brereton is classed
among the poets “less gripped by Nature
and Life, but reflecting only their own per-
sonality in their lyrics.” It is indeed ad-
mitted that he lets slip into his poetry,
especially into his last book Sea and Sky,
the Australian “Sun and Light” that he
“enjoys in his idyllic home in Sydney over-
looking Middle Harbor.” Yet he belongs
‘‘ in most of his works ” to that group of
Australian poets who betray no direct con-
nection with their surroundings. Moreover,
“ his Sweethearth Mine and The Song of
Brotherhood show a strong Swinburnian in-
fluence.” These are the words of a cata-
oguer and compiler, not of the competent
i nvestigator who has found what Australian
literature may mean. So is the critical dis-
tinction between the classes of Australian
poets. As for Brennan—another Scholar-
Poet, even more utterly beyond a slenderly-
equipped foreigner’s comprehension—he is
dismissed as “a symbolist” and “incom-
prehensible ” to the crowd. The reason for
his writing poetry is given as ‘ ‘ the Study of
French Literature” and “a specially inti-
mate acquaintance with Mallarme.” Thus he
was led to “ follow in the track of his master.”
But he is carefully noted to be of Irish
stock—apparently a sort of “Frinch-
man from Cork,” mislaid in Australia.
Bernard Patrick O’Dowd seems of un-
fathomed origin, though he was ‘ ‘ born in
1866 at Beaufort, in»Victoria.” He is perhaps
of Franco-Russian parentage. At any rate,
he is described as “indulging in atheistic,
socialistic and anarchistic ideas.” The rest
of O’Dowd s importance to the student of
Australia is indicated by the statement that
he is “ valued as Thinker as well as Poet.”
It is a nice distinction ; useful, perhaps, in
the country of its birth, but likely to meet
with some opposition among those who
speak the tongue that Shakespeare spake.
Dr. Schachner is careful to avoid the
imputation of finding a near approach to the
genuine article—the German article, namely,
—in Australian literature. O'Hara and
Matthison may run in double harness ; but
the Australian over-proneness to compare
Victor Daley to Heine he represses with the
tactful remark that, no doubt, At Dawn
and Dusk ‘ ‘ has many a strain that is remi-
niscent of Heine,” but the comparison to
which the discovery leads is “ somewhat too
appreciative ” of Daley. Of what would be
just to Daley, with Heine left completely
out of account, there is no inkling given.
Australia’s own efforts to be critical come
down (let our color deepen) to the Bed Page,
and “many a serious essay,' thereon pub-
lished, about Australian moral and intel-
lectual life,” by Arthur Adams and A. G.
Stephens. The Bulletin, as a whole, is “the
only surviving and flourishing fosterer of the
more noble productions of Australian intel-
lectual activity.” .It has “given native
talent an audience; it has made straight the
path to popularity for Paterson, Lawson
and others ; it has saved many a poet from
despondency and famine: it has brought the
hopeful sapling of Australian literature to its
present hearty growth.”
As for the other arts, Dr. Schachner has
less to say of them. Black-and-white work
has special advantages for bread-winners :
“ The Bulletin has need of it.” So “gifted
representatives ” have matured in the per-
sons of Norman and Lionel Lindsay, in
Scmter and Weston. Engraving and etching
were taught to a whole artist group, engaged
upon the Picturesque Atlas, by an American
named Hopskins, and the scenery of the
country “ invited practice of this particular
branch of art, with many a picturesque re-
sult at the hands of Streeton, Shadow, Nor-
man Lindsay and Fullwood.” In oils, Julian
Ashton is our “painter of calm oceans,”
Lister Lister “ of the glowing Bush.” Long,
Streeton and Lampert, too, “issued from
Australia and depicted their homeland with
cunning brush.” Bertram Mackennal,^ 4 for
many years, now, resident in London,” was
“ the first Australian member of the Royal
Academy.” He is classed among the
painters, perhaps in consequence of the
quotation he has contributed to Dr. Schach-
ner’s book. But it was worth while: “In
Australia there were many things calculated
in a unique degree to stimulate the artistic
sense and the artistic imagination.”
Dr. Schachner has omitted to mention
those things. But they might fairly be re-
quired of a “thorough” investigator.
Instead of them he generalises with the
usual references to the Australians being “a
new folk”; having a hot climate that
entices them “into the open air ” and “to the
dolce far niente”; but having with that an
“inherited energy” that prevents them
from ‘ ‘ exhibiting characteristics like those
of the Latin peoples in South Europe ”;
having also an hereditary longing for free-
dom, an hereditary hate of all oppression,
since the bad old convict days. Then there
is “the monotonous eucalyptus forest,”
covering the whole continent with silver-
grey foliage, and instilling into those who
dwell in it “the melancholy of its
own uniformity and unenlivened still-
ness ” (same old melancholy!); the ex-
citement of gold-digging ; the loneliness of
sheep and cattle herding, the terror of
Drought, the inspiring company of the horse
“ which is well said to be to the Australian
what the ship is to the 'Englishman.” And
so it follows—somehow —that Australians
are full of the spirit of Brotherhood, and
born with a desire to represent their country
faithfully*and well in the Arts. And that is
the best explanation Dr. Schachner can give
of the facts and opinions he collected with so
much assiduity.
E.R. H.


Jk
V
Fashions for Spring JJ Anthony Horderns’
s*\
zJjeascnJt .
<w
y«/
1531
flco£ im
z
e«
/<<
sy-
FZ
ft
E
M
41
102
No, 1531—Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Ribbon, Roses and Lilac, 18/6.
No. 101—Small Brown or Green Straw Hat, trimmed Net, Ribbon, Velvet and Pale
Pink Roses, 21/-
No. 169 —Black Chip or Crinoline Hat, trimmed Black Sequin Bandeau over White
Tulle, 2 Black Ostrich Tips and large White Osprey, 63/-
No. 102—Burnt or White Crinoline Hat, trimmed Tulle and Clusters of Flowers at
each side, 18/6.
No. 41—White Fancy Straw Hat, lined Black Crinoline, trimmed Black Ribbon,
Velvet, Roses and Foliage, 25/-
■mp $■ Summer
ORDERN^:
ANTHONY
:
sm
m
\ "'''<
-
*S
55
uy
c>Cqu)
2959
-Prices
No. 26— Cut-Away Hip Coat and Shirt, in Butcher Blue, Brown and Blue Saxe Linen,
Edges piped with White. Sizes —S.W., W., and O.S. 29/6.
No. 4345 — White Muslin Blouse Costume, trimmed Tucks, Embroidery and Valen-
ciennes Insertion, 26/6.
No. 2959— White Lawn Blouse Costume, trimmed Tucks, Embroidery and Valenciennes
Insertion, 29/6.
Nos. 4345 and 2959 Stocked in S.W., W. and O.S.
We are Family Drapers,
Complete House Furnish-
ers and Universal Pro-
viders, and our unique
system of Spot Cash
Trading presents attrac-
tions not to be found
elsewhere.
Be wise! Try a course of
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES,
recognised by discrimi-
nating shoppers as
SAVERS OF SOVS,
Our Illustrated Price Lists
place the vast resources
of The New Palace Em-
porium at the command
of the most distant
settler. Write for copies,
posted free anywhere.
We can supply every-
thing that Is wanted to
carry on the business of
. life, whether that busi-
ness Is run In single or
double harness.
Fifteen Shillings
expended at
The New Palace
Emporium
will go further than a
Sovereign spent at any
other store. The GOODS
are FRESHER, the AS-
SORTMENT Is GREATER,
and the PRICES are
THE LOWEST IN THE
LAND.
ST*
35
306
rsr ;
•?<?<?
3&71C^ S
2d a*
‘ -•••: •
4
ST
Anthony Hoedeen;
re
No. 306 — Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Tulle Ribbon and Small Mixed Flowers, 30/*
No. 200— Burnt Crinoline Hat. with Full Crown of Crinoline, trimmed Tulle, Ribbon
Velvet and Marguerites, 21/-
No, 12— White Crinoline Hat, trimmed Pastel Shades of Ribbon, Roses to Tone and
Grass Mount, 32/6
No. 132— Black Met and Crinoline Hat, trimmed Net Ribbon Velvet and Soft Pink
Roses, 30/-
No. 16— Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Floral Ribbon, Roses and Foliage, 15/6,
164
10
I'zce-s
No. 101-Fino White Lawn Blouse and Skirt Costume .trimmed
Embroidery Insertion and tine lucks, also with Hull Eiain llisnop
Sleeves, 25/- ....
No. 244— White Muslin Plain Shirt Blouse Costume, Finished Hemstitched lucks, 7/n
Also in better quality, 14-/6. •
No. 8164-Linen Coat and Skirt, Finished Self Strappings. Shades-Green Navy,
Heliotrope, Peacock, Brown. Sizes— S.W., \V. and O.S. zp/
ANTHONY HORDERN &
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
BricKfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprade ™ BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents —
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN O'lE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and C a 1 11 e—C aus e s,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1 /-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, S/6. Dr.
Foote's Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. Ne \v
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer. 1 /-.
f»~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING
TRICKS.
♦*
-r.\%
'll
;v>-
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
Play i n g
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altogether.
Co m p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct ions;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easv Card Tricks are:—(l) The Lightning:
Change, and (2) The Two-f rom-Five, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
i
<#
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
JAY F/^
s^RINKA®^
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in ail parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
AH the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: J. & R. MORLEY & CO. and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use,
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘FKUIT Salt' assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
* S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Bettor Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL.
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street. —Hon. W. G. HICGS, Local Director.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-> postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
BRISBANE CITY PROPERTY
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, at 11 o’clock.
Magnificent City Block
OPPOSITE STOCK EXCHANGE.
THE ONLY CORNER AVAILABLE IN QUEEN STREET.
THREE FRONTAGES- 65ft. to QUEEN STREET, 45 ft. 4in. to LITTLE QUEEN ST.,
and 71ft. 9 in. to EAGLE LANE.
ISLES, LOVE & CO. and CAMERON BROS. will sell (in conjunction) as above, at
the POST OFFICE AUCTION MART, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
Sub. I, 2 and 3 of Allotments 1 and 3 of Section 31, Parish of North Brisbane
The Improvements comprise a SUBSTANTIAL BLOCK of THREE (8) STORIED BRICK
BUILDINGS, and, being lighted on three sides, every foot of the Property can be used to advantage.
This Grand Property is practically Unique, being; opposite the Stock
Exchange, in the centre of the Insurance and Banking quarter of
the city, and the only corner in Queen Street which can be pur-
chased at any price at present
and produces an aggregate rental of £1,050 per annum.
The Occupants include the Aachen & Munich Fire Insurance Company, The Australian
Widows' Fund Life Offioe, Messrs. Corrie & Company, and others.
The Buildings are specially favoured in the way of lighting; the Offices let readily, are
sought after by good tenants, and, as rental values are on the increase in Brisbane, the VENDORS
WILL GUARANTEE THE RENTAL OF £lO5O PER ANNUM FOR FIVE (5) YEARS from
the date of Sale.
**The AUCTIONEERS have obtained instructions to realise at an upset price
that will mean AN ABSOLUTELY SOUND and PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
PLANS ON APPLICATION. TERMS AT SALE.
Messrs. Thynne & Macartney, Solicitors for the Vendors,
SIX MONTHS UNFIT
FOR WORK.
After Effects of Influenza.
There is no better equipment for life than a
stock of such information as a reporter gleaned
from Mr. Henry Adolphus Adams, cabinetmaker,
of 16 Burton Street, Camperdown, because it can
be so readily turned to one’s own account if cir-
cumstances require. Mr. Adams said, “fifteen
years from date I was a painter, but did not
contract the trouble so peculiar to that trade,
namely, colic ; but I got something just as bad
though, about the time I speak of.”
“What was that ? ” inquired the pressman.
“Influenza,” was the response, “and when a
man gets a proper attack of that complaint he
knows about it,” said Mr. Adams, with emphasis.
“ I was so ill that my doctor would not allow me
anything but milk food, so you may depend I
did not get very fat on that. For six solid months
I was laid up, utterly unfit for work, and not able
to get about at all. How much weight I lost
goodness knows, but a great amount at all events,
for their was little left of me but skin and bone.
I was down to the lowest possible ebb, and felt
like a helpless mortal, drifting out slowly, but
surely, upon the tide of adversity that had so
ruthlessly set in against me. No medicine that
had as yet been administered was capable of
stemming the adverse current, and it seemed
that I might as well give up the fight for life and
consign myself resignedly to the merciless fate
that yawned before me. My appetite was gone,
I could not sleep, excepting in short stages that
had norefreshinginfluence upon me, and I had such
severe aching sensations in all parts of my body
that I could not lie anyway with the least degree
of comfort. In my head the dull, depressing pains
almost racked my brain. They were too severe
to enable me to spend a few hours reading, even
if I could have settled my mind to do so, which I
doubt; and there were many signs at hand that
my liver was thoroughly upset. My tongue, for
one thing, was completely overlain with a white
coating ; the taste in my mouth was like gall, and
the pains across the kidneys were so bad that I
could hardly bend my back, added to which my
shoulder blades had pains under them too.
Taken altogether, there was little of me left but
aches and pains, and what I would have done
without Clements Tonic I do not know.”
“ That was the medicine which cured you, I
believe?”
“ Nothing else but Clements Tonic saved me, 1
give you my word. It was touch-and-go with me
when I started on it, for I was almost too feeble-
to stand. My nerves had gone. Any noise set.
me all of a shake, especially if it came to my ears,
abruptly, and I had in my excessive weakness,
contracted the habit of worrying more than I had.
ever done in my life. But what a lucky stroke to-
think of Clements Tonic after all the medicine I
had taken for no result! And it would be very
ungrateful of me if I did not hand down my ex-
perience of that remedy for my fellow citizens,.
as I am quite convinced it is a veritable booni
to mankind. As a strength-producing agent it .
certainly is far ahead of any remedy I know of,,
and for pulling together one’s shattered nerves,,
it cannot be excelled. Clements Tonic applied ini
my case like a strong man leading a helpless-,
hopeless wreck of humanity away from certam
danger—it accomplished an act of revivification,
and to my last day on earth I shall be thankful.
So far as putting to rights my digestive organs
was concerned, Clements Tonic was equally
effective, all the old troubles disappearing as if
wafted away by the magician’s wand, and I did
not leave off taking it till a thorough recovery was
firmly established.”
“Have you had any further experience with
Clements Tonic ? ”
“ I have heard of numerous cases it has cured,
but I can speak of its value from another point of
view myself. It is a reliable remedy for neuralgia,
for some time ago I had a bad attack and Clements
Tonic gave me relief very speedily. Yes, there is
nothing I think so highly of as Clements Tonic,
and I don’t mind you publishing every syllable
I’ve uttered, in any way it suits you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, HENRY ADOLPHUS ADAMS, of 16 Burton Street,
Camperdown, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
1
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown, this twenty-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me,
9] C. S. MALLETT, J.P.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
df
gdf
now in London
writes under
date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 55 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
Mger's
Mair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S.A#
g
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought, of ns. Yoot
money in fuU refunded with out question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles P
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
MODiais £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim HrakCß, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted In each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our Bvecial offer on sample machine.
MEAD GY IDLE GO- r Dept. 280 Liverpool .
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
X of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
After pneumonia, when what
is wanted is “ building up,”
experienced nurses fly to
Scott’s
EMULSION
Mrs. F. Smith, Sandringham
Street, Sandringham, Syd-
ney, N. S.W., writes (July
1908): “My little son, Gil-
bert (19 months), contracted
pneumonia and bronchitis,
and became so weak and
emaciated that I thought I
should lose him. However,
I gave him SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, and very soon there
was a marked improvemen t.
He is now completely re-
stored to health, h«? gained
wonderfully in weight, and
looks well and rosy. I have
no hesitation in attributing
his rapid recovery to
SCOTT’S Emulsion.” Per-
haps the most important
word in this letter from
a mother’s point of view is—
“SCOTT’S.” “Emulsion”
is a very different thing
from SCOTT’S Emulsion.
The power to cure lies in
the word “ SCOTT’S,” for
SCOTT’S has what other
emulsions lack, the
curing power
aud if you see
on the package
SCOTT’S “ fish-
man ” you may
look forward with
confidence to a
cure. Of all chem-
ists and dealers
in medicines.
fd
The mark by which you
pick out your cure !
fl/tf
ftSTH
lUNCS
THE
CARE
throat
SEAS>e.S
RESULT OF SCIENCE
Bonningtons is a special process
for compounding Carrageen or Irish Moss
(Chrondrus Crispus), obtained from the
West Coast of Ireland. The Irish Moss
in its crude state has many uses but it
was left to that skilful chemist—George
Bonnington—to so combine this .product
with other ingredients to produce the
splendid chest medicine known as—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.
This remedy has a world wide reputation ior the cure of Coughs and Colds
and Affections of the Chest, Throat and Tungs. It has been in constant use
for upwards of 45 years. The most persistent cough will yield to its influence
and be permanently cured. It has proved its worth to other people—let it
do so for you.
PRICE 1/6 & 2/6 PER BOTTLE. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
‘OUR. JACK'* Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR lie .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD,, Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
AllcocK!s
Porous Piaster
V,'
For pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
Allcock’s Plaster.
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c. &c.
INSIST UPON HAVING
All cock’s
j
For Rheumatism, or
Pains 'in Shoulders,
Elbows, or elsewhere,
✓ or for Sprains,
Stiffness, etc., and for
Aching Feet. Plaster should be cut
size and shape required and applied to
part affected as shown above.
REMEMBER— Allcock’s Plasters have been sold by the millions for over 60 years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock’s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever. For Sale by
Druggists throughout the World*
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., 22 Hamilton Square, Birkenhead, England.
Brand ret h’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliotisness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1753.
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST!
A painfully thin
woman is placed at
a great disadvan-
tage nowadays. No
woman now need
stay thin and un-
developed.
[2
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH=FOOD”
is a natural tissue builder, a scientific bust
developer, that will add five pounds to your
weight weekly, and adds inches to your
measurements. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE
“FLESH-FOOD” GO.,
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St. ,
SYDNEY
WOOD- MILNE
SHOESHINES
Black and Brown
Mud does not stick, rain does
not penetrate, fog does not
dim the Shoes that shine with
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINES.
Try one tin and test it
for yourself.
Of all bootmen.
gd
IMt BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years."
Average Bose. — A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
■ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centro Par*
of the Label.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Black Bordered Letter
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An’ so Vs dead in London
An’ answered to the call,
An’ trotted through the Long Street
With ’earse an’ plumes an’ all!
We was village boys an’ brothers—
We was warm as we could be,
In the milk-walk an’ the fried-fish
Up in London, ’im an’ me.
We was warm,,
We was warm,
As we 'ad alvjays been;
We never 'ad a dry word
Till SHE come between.
I lived round Windsor Terrace,
An’ ’im across the wye,
An’ when I sailed a emigrant
We never said Good-bye !
He wos better than a brother—
Wot you Bushmen call a mate.
{Did he reach the rylwye stytion,
As they told me, just too late !)
We was warm,
We was warm
As pals was ever seen;
We never 'ad a dry word
Till she co me bet ween.
I meant to go back ’ome agin,
I meant to write to-night;
I meant to write by every mail,
But I thought ’e oughter write.
An’ now ’e’s left North London—
For a better place, perhaps—
She’s flauntin’ in ’er widder weeds
With eyes on other chaps.
We was warm,
We was ivarm,
An' vjc 'ad always been;
We never 'ad a dry word
Till she come between.
Oh ! tongues is bad in wimmin
When wimmin’s tongues is bad !
For they’ll part men an’ brothers
World oceans wide, my lad !
There was seven years between us
An’ fifteen thousand mile,
An’ now there’s death and sorrer
For ever an’ awhile.
We was warm,
We was warm,
As two was ever seen ;
We never 'ad a dry ivord
Till she come between.
N.S. W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Kingdom.
With thousand new desires,
Star-eyed, in robes of white,
A thousand Maids of Honor
The Court of Dream delight;
No man may gain its splendor
By purchase or exchange....
The world of mart and barter
Is fugitive and strange.
A court so royal splendid
No warring king hath seen,
Where one by one the Faithful
Bring honor to their Queen;
She giveth princely raiment
To cover earthly rags;
But none may know nor enter
Whose gods are money-bags.
On earth ten thousand measure
Success by hoarded wealth,
Where one goes gleaning treasure
Of dream in reverent stealth,
And some are sought by women
For place and fashion’s needs
The world were past redeeming
Were none beloved for deeds!
Some make of gold and power
False, tributary gods;
But power is evanescent,
And gold but pleases clods ;
The thrall that never soareth
Beyond his money bags
Is poorer than the Faithful
Clad in immortal rags.
The Presence, yielding savor
Of finer things than gold,
Unfolds a lovelier vision
Than ever poet told... .
The singer sings her heart’s-beat,
The painter paints her soul;
Her eyes are sad with watching
Earth’s sycophants patrol.
All they that gain the Kingdom
Kneel at the empress-throne,
And some more greatly honored
Bear sceptres of their own,
And never heart is silent,
And never soul is dumb;
Yet neither sound of conquest
Nor taint of barter come.
Within a noble chamber
Is shrined the Scroll of Fame.
By one and one the Faithful
Enter and write a name,
And some are crowned with laurel,
And some are honored less ;
But all that win the Kingdom
Inherit nobleness.
A court so royal splendid
No flattered king hath seen;
The Faithful are anointed
By their exalted Queen,
And all that seek her living
Shall linger after death ;
Some few the gods have chosen
Shall breathe immortal breath.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


Don’t throw good blades away
—get a razor that keeps its blade sharp.
The
Auto Strop Razoß
Stropsltself
and is always sharp. Even the most inexperienced
can keep the Auto Strop Safety Razor in perfect
shaving condition. It is stropped and cleaned without
taking apart, and it pays for itself in a year by doing
away with the buying of new blades necessary with
all non-stropping razors.
fg
The Standard Outfit
consists of quadruple
silver-plated, self-stropping razor ; one dozen
tested lancet-steel blades :
one horsehide rjirf /
strop ; in leather
case, 2 in. by 3| in. NET.
Sold by all leading dealers.
Descriptive booklet free on
request to the
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA:
lamson Store Service Co., Ltd., Tb .' d R S' Si“Jk M sfd«""
iluloStrop Safely Razor Go. Ltd. 61 New Oxford St., London, England.
Also at Paris. New York and Montreal.
im
BROOKS-BEST-
Always and at all times those two words are synonymous
hence, no Bicycle is really high-grade without the
Saddle bears that name.
Stocked by all Agents —Art Saddle Manual free from
J. B. BROOKS 81 CO. LTD.
The Saddle Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
m
m
For Trap or Field a STEVENS
SINGLE or DOUBLE BARREL
SHOTGUN is Ideal. Low in Price -
High in Quality—good gun value right
through ! Made in standard gauges,
lengths, weights, etc.—Hammer or
Hammerless Styles.
STEVENS SHOTGUNS SHOOT STRAIGHT
AND STRONG.
For sale by all progressive Hard-
ware & Sporting Goods Merchants.
Send for 160-page illustrated Cata-
logue describing entire output.
J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
546 Broadway,
Chicopee Falls, Mass., U.S.A.
s].
1
m
0^
mmm
m
«A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin. ” Office
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
ISfi ' If
Mall
.2 1
m
•<? J,;
■I
; s
■
•: -
la Ip
- ■:
:
i
ansi
~5
ilil
;,i
; ? ' •
Ira
■
.
.
i§
mips
i
■:■. ' . , ■ ■ *•
a;
Mra
V <
m
mi
Si
US
"’ll
;, 4 - %- t > v
■
a
df
THE ROOFING
ON WHICH THE
SUN NEVER SETS
g
E.RICtI S 6.L TD
SYDME.Y AND
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1545.
THURSDAY, SEPT EM HER *23, 1909.
Price 6d.
FAMILY LIFE OF A BRITISH PRIME MINISTER
the Suffragette trouble has become so bad in England that Mr. Asquith’s dinner was recently disturbed in the fashion depicted above.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only;
Rcr Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-pearl y ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct, to Tiik Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and, all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin won Id oblige the. paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bulletin.” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate, any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable ,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ystralian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, IWUO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Reiters, or Newspaper Clippings.
AII communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will he returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded, without stamvs
for return it will be understood that, the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adapted for direct reproduct ion, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture, which has to be re-drawn —will be. paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct, to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Got.ch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at U/0 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from .Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcb, Lnilyate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, lid liigh Ilolborn, London, if'.C.
South A erica.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
V AN.couvKii.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouvei, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Cavle and Co., Stationers.
iJ.S. A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency ,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Kg yet.— The Colonial Book and News Stores. Port Said.
Hong Kong. Brewer andfCo., Pedder-st., Dong Long.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates.size li'ii.n. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 19U9.
PORT TYPHOID ON JERVIS BAY.
Last week N.S.W. State Premier Wade intro-
duced a motion into the Assembly providing for
the “surrender” of a Fetleral capital site to the
Commonwealth. It is characteristic of Wade
that he must show his own importance by making
some alteration or other off his own parochial bat,
so it is quite in the natural order of things that
the capital site now appears in a different light
from that of a few days or weeks ago, and repre-
sents quite a large variation upon the scheme
lately heard of in the Australian Parliament. In
the first place, Wade, m his character as the dic-
tator of Australia, hacks down the proposed
scanty 1000 square miles to 800. Then the water
supply of the Federal territory was to consist,
until a day or two ago, of three creeks—
the Cotter, the Queanbeyan, and the Mo-
longlo. Now the Queanbeyan and the
Molonglo are affably cut out by Wade, and
are to remain in State territory, though there are
certain shadowy promises that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment will keep the adjacent country ciean, and
allow the Commonwealth to draw an occasional
bucket of water from these two streams if it re-
quires a bucket of water. The watercourses of
the Federal area are now to be the frequently-
mentioned Cotter, and three other creeks called
Gudgenby, Naas and Paddy. Not one of these
four can be found on a large wall map, and even
on the plan of the district specially prepared for
the advertisement of the Canberra site the'Paddy
and the Naas don’t appear. The four creeks are
all omitted and treated with blank contempt by
the official “Wealth and Progress of N.S.W.”
and the “Official Year Book of N.S.W.”; and
though Knibbs, in his “Official Year Book of the
Commonwealth,” describes the Snowy and five of
'ts tributaries he has apparently never heard of the
Cotter, the Paddy, the Naas or the Gudgenby.
He enumerates shoddy little N.S.W. rivulets only
39 miles in length, but apparently these four were
t > > small or too dry to catch the official glance.
There is a stretch of about 15 miles as the crow flies
between the Cotter and the Gudgenby, if the map
which was officially issued in the Canberra interest
is correct. So it looks like a very scattered water
supply. As a matter of fact, the Cotter and the
Gudgenby are the only two creeks that count, for
the Naas, it seems, is a mere tributary of the
Gudgenby and is included in it; and the Paddy
is a tributary of the Cotter, so when the Wade
Government whooped in times past about the size
and magnificence ot the Cotter the Paddy was
already reckoned in. Now by way of a great
concession the Paddy is reckoned over again arid
put in separately. Possibly it is in return for this
concession m the matter of the Paddy that Wade
proposes to reserve to the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment certain rather indefinite rights to the con-
trol of that part of the Murrumbidgee which lies
inside the newly-devised Federal territory. It
seems to be a muddled case of divided control all
round.
» * * *
There is something curiously scrappy and un-
finished about these proposed arrangements. The
Federal city is apparently to rely for its water
supply not on one big imposing river, like the
Snowy and its tributaries, but on a scrap here and
a streak of moisture there, and on a shadowy right
to borrow fluid from a State-owned creek in
another place. Then it is to have access to the
sea, not exactly over its own territory, but
by the granting of a right of way for railway
purposes over State land—an unsatisfactory
sort of arrangement which makes the Common-
wealth a kind of lodger on State premises. At
the sea-coast the Commonwealth is to be granted,
it is said, two square miles of country—l2Bo
acres—for the purposes of a Federal port
with railway terminus, goods station, wharves
and all the other ttceessories. The area
doesn’t suggest very much of a port; Kempsey is
more than three times as large, and Lismore ten
times, and Wollongong and Shellharbor are both
larger. If the Federal port is to be used at all, a
township must spring up there—one that will be
to the Federal city what Port Lyttelton is to
Christchurch, and Port Adelaide to Adelaide, and
Fremantle to Perth. But the people of that town
can’t drink sea,water, and there is no room for a
water catchment area and for reservoirs on
two square miles of land—and there is
no guarantee that Wade will supply the
Federal seaport with water. Certainly there
is nothing said about any such supply. And sup-
posing the N.S.W. State Government is willing
to supply the Federal port —the new Fremantle—
with water, that means that a certain area must
be reserved for catchment purposes. The said
area being thus rendered of practically no use to
N.S.W., it is difficult to see that the State would
gain anything by retaining it, except such satisfac-
tion as a petty tyrant might naturally feel at being
able to remind the people of the Federal seaport
periodically that their town can only have a drink
on sufferance, that it is a sort of pauper and de-
pendent, that it must pay whatever price for its
water the Wade of the moment chooses to
demand, that it must come round very respect-
fully with its hat in its hand if it wants to ask for
more water and less typhoid, and that it can
always be told in a coarse, harsh voice that if it
makes too much fuss about the dead cows in its
drinking supply it will get no water at all.
* * * *
Then when the Federal seaport—the new Port
1 Adelaide or Fremantle—springs up on Jervis Bay
it will have to consider how to get rid of its sew-
age and its garbage. It is impossible to do much
on two square miles of land, and the power which
owns that isolated scrap won’t possess or control
another inch of soil thereabouts except the narrow
strip on which its railway runs. Apparently,
as garbage can’t be dumped on a railroad, every-
thing will have to be thrown into the sea, or else
the liquid and semi-liquid refuse must go
into the sea and the solid matter he burned
in the streets. Possibly some arrangement
will be arrived at by which the Common-
wealth, so long as it pays enough and is
sufficiently respectful to the local Wade of the
moment, will be allowed to plant the garbage of
Port Typhoid on such portions of Wade’s territory
as Wade is graciously pleased to point out. But
it all reads like a miserable; sordid, grudging,
parish-minded and wantonly-malicious scheme to
make the Federal city a mean stinted place, de-
pendent at every turn on the goodwill of some
petty State tyrant—a tyrant of the small, pin-
pricking, nagging variety. The theory seems
to be that the Australian capital must be close up
to Sydney, partly for the profit of certain
Sydney papers, partly that the influence of cer-
tain Tory, anti-Labor, and largely anti-Federal
Sydney papers may always lie heavily upon it,
and partly on the general principle that every-
thing should be near Sydney or else at Sydney.
But having got the capital close to Sydney, it
seems that every precaution must be taken to
make it a mean, shabby place which can never,
under any circumstances, be Sydney’s rival.
On this subject the Sydney Tory press has
been explicit enough. The capital, it has ex-
plained clearly in a reassuring tone, will never
be more than “ a large country town,” and it cer-
tainly will not he any more if these anti-Australian
rags can help it.
All this is a dismal falling away from the
dreams that good Australians dreamed a few
years ago. It is true that even then Australia had
been tricked by the, most degraded political
dodger in the land out of the right to select the
best site in all its wide domain for its metropolis,
but even within the limits fixed it had abundant
chances to found a City Beautiful—one that would
be worthy of its status as the only city on earth
which is the political centre of a continent. There
were ideas then of a place which would have its
own abundant water supply and water power,
and which might become, by reason of that
water power, one of the greatest and most
prosperous manufacturing centres in Australia ;
with its industries carried on under ideal
conditions prescribed by the most democratic
Parliament in the land. There were visions of a
fair-sized Federal territory extending to the sea,
with the Commonwealth as sole, ground landlord ;
of a Federal port which would be a real port; and
of a metropolis so far away from the reactionary
influences of the Argus and the a. M. Herald
and their tribe that there would be opportunity to
build up a democratic daily press—a press that
would be exclusively Federal and Australian, with
no taint of narrowness or parochialism about it.
It is a great fall from that dream to the reality of
800 square miles of barren land at the Sydney
Telegraph’s back door—a region scantily watered
by the Cotter and the Gudgenby, two streams
which even Premier Wade only describes
as “practically permanent”—and to the iso-
lated scrap of seaport of two square miles, with no
sure water supply, and with its garbage festering
on the beach, unless Wade allows the said-refuse
to be taken away. But the dreamers didn’t
realise then how low Deakin could fall and how
abject he could become. Nor did they quite com-
prehend that a considerable section of the Federal
Labor men didn’t care 2d. for the possibilities of
a Federal democratic press, or the chance of trying
a notable experiment in land nationalisation, or
the opportunity to create an ideal manufacturing
city under the industrial control of the Common-
wealth. They did not quite comprehend then that
Wade’s purpose might be really to degrade the
Federal authority by making the capital of all
Australia a dog-kennel and a laughing-stock.
Nor had they quite learned that McGowen
and many of his party were merely Wade’s poli-
tical parasites and hangers-on, that they had just
as keen an eye for the interests of the Syd-
ney Tory press as he had, and that when it
came to being parish-minded, and anti-Aus-
tralian, they were just this much worse than
Wade, that by reason of the high moral attitude
of their political platform they had done
a bigger fall. All these matters were a
revelation. Also Labor member Hughes, who,
almost in so many words, urged Parliament to
hurry on with the Yassberra job and get it
finished before the people had a chance to inter-
fere, was rather more than a revelation.
* ■» * *
Some of the things that have been done in the
interests of Yassberra and its sea-outlet at Port
Typhoid are interesting in a small way. For
instance, the Australian Government some time
ago appointed four experts to view the Yassberra
site and select a location for the capital. They
were all N.S.W. men, so it could hardly be alleged
that they were influenced against Yassberra by
State prejudice. The reports which followed
were not pleasant reading. They said nothing
cheerful about the Yassberra scenery or land or
climate. They said that the boasted Cotter
could only be really relied upon to supply a city
of about 50,000 people, and that the expense, of
pumping up the water would be considerable.
They even seemed to reckon that Jervis Bay
could be improved upon as a port. It might have
been imagined that that report would have killed
Yassberra, but it didn’t. In fact, the damning
document is never heard of now. State Premier
Wade of N.S.W., who seems to own the souls of
DEAKiNand CooKand Fisher, immediately had one
of his own employees on the job, and that employee
declared with enthusiasm that the Cotter con-
tained enough water to supply 26 times as many
people as the four Federal experts reckoned it
capable of supplying. The same State official has
been grinding out enormous estimates of the
water supply of the Cotter and adjacent creeks
ever since, and they seem to be accepted in a
humble and contrite spirit by Deakin and Cook
and Fisher and Hughes, not one of whom puts up
a kick in defence of the report of the men whom
the Australian Government appointed. Yet even
Wade only alleges that the streams which are to
supply the Yassberra capital with all this
enormous quantity of water are “practically
permanent,” and a stream that is “ practically
permanent ” seems a rather apologetic sort of
stream. Still, the very same week that Wade
described the Yassberra streams as only “prac-
tically permanent,” he is reported by the S. M.
Herald as saying this :
The Cotter River has a catchment area that is UNIQUE
in this State. It is an ideal catchment situate IN THE
BEST-WATERED PART OF THIS STATE.
It is surely a pretty bad case which requires to be
boosted up by such impudent falsehoods as that.
The N.SAV. • ‘ Statistical Register ” (1907)sets forth
that the averasre annual rainfall of Canberra is
23in. against Kiandra’s 65in., Sydney’s 48, and
Wollongbar’s 67. In fact, out of the 96 meteoro-
logical stations in N.S.W. 69 have a heavier rain-
fall than Yassberra, six have an exactly similar
rainfall, and 21, mostly in the Far West, have a
smallerfall. ProvidedthattheN.S.W.Government
statistics are not a stupendous lie, there is, in all
the N.S.W. coastal district and all the tableland
behind it only one drier spot than this same Can-
berra region which Gregory Wade has the cast-
iron front to call (unless the daily paper grossly
misrepresents him) “ the best-watered part of the
State.” Truly it seems to require a lot of hard
assertion to keep the Yassberra fraud afloat.
As a sort of side issue, it is reported in the
S. M. Herald that the servile McGowen made
these remarks
Mr. McGowen said that he thoroughly re-echoed the
sentiment of the Premier, that they could not afford to
allow party feeling'to enter into the question. He was
fearful that although the Premier had made a suggestion
that was undoubtedly better than the one favored 9>y the
advisory committee he was unwittingly playing into the
hands of those who objected to settling the question.
It is rather difficult to decide what McGowen
meant when he spoke of “ those who objected to
settling the question.” Possibly be meant those
who object to fixing the capital on a small and
rather barren area with a 23in. rainfall—a place
where the creeks are “practically permanent.”
Possibly he referred to those who see no special
advantages in depending on the grant of a right
of way over State land to connect the capital with
a Federal port of two square miles a long distance
away, the said port being inside the 100-mile limit
from Sydney, and therefore held on none too
secure a tenure. Possibly, in fact, he meant,
when he spokeof “ those who objected to settling
the question,” the people-who advocate a capital
on the big Snowy River, with a 5000 square mile
territory and a big Federal port at Twofold Bay. If
he did mean that he is an Ananias, for the people
who advocate the Monaro capital site are quite us
anxious as McGowen to get the matter settled,
and are a great deal more anxious to promote the
interests of Australia. And if McGowen didn’t
mean that, hut something else, then the chance is
that he isn’t an Ananias, but is only incom-
prehensible.
THE MOTHER COHENTRY.
The papers the other day printed a cable with
these heading's
THE HEART OF CHINA.
GERMANY HOLDS THE KEY.
BRITAIN OUTMANOEUVRED.
The Times explained what had happened
“British financiers had been induced to cast in
their lot with Germany;” there was probably
tuppence in the £ more to be got out of Bill than
out of Bull. Further, according to the Times—
The fundamental mistake of Great Britain has lain in
assuming' that the handling of questions involving
national rights could safely be left to the discretion of
financiers.
Which is right except that for “discretion” the
Times might have been a shade more frank, and
written either “ honesty ” or “ patriotism.” Pro-
bably what happens in Shantung doesn’t concern
Australia very much ; but the disposition of Bull
Cohen concerns this country a great deal; for
this country has already mortgaged itself to Bull
Cohen for £185,000.000, and has cheerfully
assumed that Bull Cohen will renew the bill as a
matter of course. Further, as if £185,000,000
were not enough trouble to wrestle with incase
Cohen will not renew the bill as a matter of
course, the debt is made bigger every month or
two. The idea that Bull Cohen may hesitate
about renewing the bill has always been scouted.
In fact, Cohen is never mentioned in connection
with the business. It is always put much more
pleasantly by the penny papers and the tuppenny
politicians : “We have borrowed from the Mother
Country.'" There has always been a nice, com-
fortable feeling about that phrase —a suggestion
that, whatever might happen, we would be all
right ; that whoever else might feel the screw,
we wouldn’t. Mother would look after us. And
now the Times tells the horrible truth : “ British
financiers have been induced to cast in their lot
with Germany ” —those same British financiers in
whom we have been putting implicit trust. In
short, we have been borrowing, not from Mother,
but from Cohen, who knows no nationality, but
will give a preference to Mother’s enemy if there
is a fraction more profit that way.
* * * *
On that point, of course, The Bulletin has
never had any doubts itself. For years past, to
the intense disgust of the Empire Leaguer, it has
been guilty of referring to Australia’s foreign
creditor as Bull Cohen, and of regarding him as
more Cohen than Bull. And year by year, as
Australia has had to pay more and more for its
borrowed money, there has been more and more
evidence that the tag was true. During the past
four or five years of remarkable prosperity, Aus-
tralia ought to have been able to borrow at an
unusually low rate. Instead, almost every suc-
ceeding loan has cost Australia more. In 1898,
when deficits had become chronic in N. S. Wales,
and the total shortage amounted to £3,051,637,
and when altogether the position was full of
gloom, N. S. Wales was able to borrow at £3
Is. per cent. In 1901, when the accumulated
deficit was down below a million, it had to pay
£3 9s. 6d. In 1906 the price had been raised to
£3 15s. Two years later it had crept up to
£3 15s. 7|d., in spite of the fact that the State’s
revenue account closed with a credit balance of
£1,676,924. Finally, early this year, when once
more Bull Cohen was applied to, the price was
up to £3 18s. B|d. per cent. The State’s Auditor-
General has been pondering these strange things,
and has come to this conclusion :
The London money market is becoming more and more
cosmopolitan in its leanings—
which is the official and long-winded way of say-
ing that “the Mother Country,” so far as our
loans are concerned, means simply Bull Cohen,
who is more Cohen than Bull—
and apparently it is not disposed to differentiate in
Colonial and Foreign issues—
which is also the nice way of saying that the
money-lenders to whom the penny papers and the
tuppenny politicians have habitually alluded as
“the Mother Country,” are prepared to supply
either Germany or Japan with money to build a
hostile fleet if those countries will pay three-
ha’pence more per cent, than Australia or Canada
or Maoriland offers.
And now that the Auditor-General has drawn
attention to the matter, what are N.S.W., the
other States and Maoriland going to do about
it? They have for years past been deliber-
ately deluding themselves into the belief that
they would get preference from the British money-
lender ; but our own long experience and
this last incident in China prove that we will get
not an atom of it. Bull Cohen, who is more
COHEN than Bull, doesn’t care two straws-
about Australia or Maoriland ; if at the moment
when an old Australian loan falls due Germany
or Japan offers him more interest, he will demand
his money from us, so chat he may lend it to them.
So far aslhe is concerned we are not Children of
the Empire ; we are merely people who pay in-
terest, and if he thinks we ban pay more interest
he will make us pay it. So long as we believed in
the “Mother Country” idea in regard to this
money-lending and money-borrowing, it was all
very well to go empty-handed when a loan came
due for renewal. But now that that idea has to
be thrown overboard—now when it is admitted
that the London market is not prepared to give
us any preference over the foreigner—what posi-
tion shall we be in if we rely wholly on Bull
Cohen’s “mercy ” ? If we go empty-handed—if,
in other words, we must get the bill renewed or be
a defaulter— Bull Cohen will inevitably put the
price up. It is his business to get the last fraction
of interest he can ; it is so much his business that
he will get it from Germany if he can’t get it from
Britain or Britain’s dependencies. Moreover, the
further we get into debt to this “ cosmopolitan ”
person, without the means of repayment on the
due date, the more we place ourselves at his
mercy, tinder those circumstances, three things
are indispensable—
(l) To stop putting ourselves further at the mercy of
the “cosmopolitan” gentleman who Would lend to our
enemy if he could get tuppence more.
(2) To hurry up the transfer of the States’ debts to
the Commonwealth, so that at any rate the’ “ cosmo-
politan” gentleman may not be able to play off one
State’s necessities against another State’s.
(3) To establish a sinking fund so that the debt may be
gradually got out of the hands of the “cosmopolitan”
gentleman, and so also that, as loans fall due, we shall
not he wholly at his mercy so far as renewals are con-
cerned.
The Bulletin has already explained how that
sinking fund can be started with about £8,000,000
now lying idle and unproductive in Australian
banks’by the simple plan—already tried and proved
good in Canada—of requiring all banks doing
business in the Commonwealth to hold two-fifths
of their reserves in Commonwealth notes. With
that £8,000,000 for a start, used to purchase the
lowest-priced Australian stocks, there would at
once be an income of over £280,000 a year ; and at
compound interest the annual amount available
would increase so enormously that very soon,
when any ordinary loan fell due, we should be
able to apply to the “cosmopolitan” Cohen the
onlv argument that is bkely to have the smallest
effect on him. And that argument is a plain,
blunt statement that if he isn’t prepared to renew
on our terms be can do the other thing, and we’ll
take up the bill ourselves.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Advice from the Wrong Quarter.
Editor Ward, of Sydney Telegraph, made him-
self not a little weary to many good patriots
hereabouts by posing, during his recent visit to
England, as Australia’s record astonished person
or gushing child of nature. He appeared as the
simple, unenlightened back-blocker of the Empire
—the man who had no idea what a navy was like,
or what large manufactures were like, or what
anything of much importance was like till he went
to Bull’s country, and staggered with amazement
at the bigness of the newly discovered world. It
made good nationalists squirm and curse to think
that this frank, open-mouthed; mildly-amazed
citizen might be taken as a fair sample of the
people hereabouts. Since then Ward has added
one wrong to another by writing up Canada in his
own paper. He suddenly discovered Canada its
progress, its manufactures and its energy and
again he started out to enlighten the ignorance
of the back-blocky Australian so that out of the
vastness rf the knowledge poured upon him by


Ward he might go and do likewise. Yet there
are people here who know exactly what Canada is,
and also whv it is. In 1868, when Ward and his
kind were preaching Freetrade as the only road to
prosperity, Canada had an average 12 per cent.
Protective tariff, which meant that some things
came in free while many things paid 30 per cent,
or more. In 1878 the tariff was up to an average
of £l3 15s. per cent., and Chambers’s Encyclo-
paedia remarks : “ Since 1878 the development of
manufactures has been marked.” In 1880 the
Canadian tariff averaged £l6 6s. Bd. per cent. ; in
1887 it was £l9 17s. 6d. per cent.,, and it rose still
higher afterwards. So naturally things happened.
In 1905 (the last year for which the Statesman’s
Year Book supplies statistics) Canada had
3851 more factories than the Commonwealth
possessed. It had 177,941 more factory employees
—392,530 against the Commonwealth’s 214,589.
It paid about £33,000,000 in wages and salaries to
factory employees, as against about £17,000,000 in
the Commonwealth, and it produced goods to
nearly double the value. Canada achieved these
results because it scorned and rejected the senile
fiscal creed which “Whiskers” Ward and his
kind preached to Australia, and especially to
N.S.W. It was not the much-vaunted “primary
products ’’—the boasted wheat—which made
Canada. The Dominion does well in that line;
yet when Australia gets a really first-class year,
as it did in 1903, it has been known to beat
Canada in wheat; while in sheep it beats Canada
40 times over, and in cattle twice over. But
manufactures, thanks to a sturdy contempt for
the Telegraph’s Ereetrade insanities, are
Canada’s sheet anchor. Consider, for instance,
these details of the Dominion’s exports published
on page 248 of the Statesman’s Year Book for
1909:
Value of Agricul- Value of Manu- Majority in
tural Produce faetured Goods favor of
Exported Exported Manufactures
(dollars). (dollars). (dollars).
1903 .. 44,624,000 51,714,000 7,090,000
1904 .. 37,139,000 48,034,000 10,895,000
1905 . 29,994,000 49,230,000 19,236,000
1936 .. 54,062,000 57,601,000 3,539,000
1907 I
(9months)} 35 ’ 857 ’ 000 47,870,000 12,013,000
Majority in
favor of
Agriculture
(dollars).
1908 .. 66,070,000 64,495,000 1,575,000
In 1908 the price of bread boomed up enormously
in Freetrade England—in fact it touched a figure
that had hardly been reached within the memory
of man—and countries with surplus wheat to sell
had a great time. But, save in that one year.
Canada’s Protected manufactures were more of a
Support and an attraction to immigrants than its
agriculture, despite the clatter of the Freetrade
press, with Ward’s paper in the van, about the
farms, the “ primary products,” and all the rest.
And in addition to having a tariff system which
Ward’s paper bitterly denounces, Canada has a
banking system which The Bulletin has long ad-
vocated, but which the Sydney Telegraph regards
as “ robbery,” or something to that effect; and a
business-like habit of dispensing with State Upper
Houses which most of the Australian Freetrade
papers bitterly object to as an outrage on
British precedent. It has a sinking fund which
is so utterly unlike the fraud and sham of the
Sydney Telegraph's friend, Gregory Wade,
that in some years the Canadian public debt
actually shows a diminution. Further, it has a law
for the punishment of those who publish unfounded
■slanders upon their country, under which law
the Australian Stinking Fish party, of which
Ward’s paper used to be such a prominent
supporter—including the Six Hatters liars and the
Petriana Myth liars—would have gone to gaol.
Also Canada has none of the State Rights which
the Telegraph declares to be so essential; in that
cold land the central Government is supreme.
Australia started in real earnest to catch up with
Canada when it decided to federate as Canada
had done (and , thereby concluded that Ward’s
paper, which virulently opposed Federation, was
either a fool or a knave); and when it resolved to
utterly ignore Ward’s advice on tariff matters
and go solidly for Protection. Under the cir-
cumstances it is rough that this country should
have Canada held up to it by Ward of all people
as a bright and shining example. Every time it
hears of Canada it wants to forget Ward, and
the more it hears of Canada the more it wishes it
had never heard of Ward.
The Plaint of Twigg.
The cry of one E. S. Twigg, who recently wrote
to the S. M. Herald :
We are face to face with a bad time. The State has in-
creased her sheep from 29,000,000 to nearly 60,000,000
during the last few years. Besides supplying New South
Wales and large quantities to the other States; the Home-
bush Yards’ selling agents state they will have put
between two and three million sheep through their
y t ards this year. My question is: What number should
gb next year, including all exported? I venture to say
fully 20,000,000 Sheep and lambs should now be killed and
exported yearly. What preparation is this State making
for such a great change? Where are our railways,
trucks, and freezing works? If this season continues
wheat will be lying at the railway stations to the middle
of next winter at the mercy of the weather, and millions
of sheep and lambs that will be prime will not have the
slightest chance of reaching Sydney till they are dog-
poor again. I would suggest that the Government bor-
row £5,000,000 to £10,000,000 a year for railway works ;
import thousands of farm laborers, start them on the
railway works, and I venture to say after seeing three
months of this State they will be trying for land to make
a home in New South Wales. The greatest drawback to
growers is that when we grow wheat and fat lambs we
cannot get them to the market.
That sort of complaint is fairly common nowa-
days, but the Twigg people don’t seem to strike
the real trouble. The fact is that the attempt to
drag everything to Sydney has brought about a
state of congestion which threatens paralysis.
Sydney, it is true, has only a little more than one-
third of the shipping trade whiohLondon possesses,
but the cases aren’t parallel. London does the
export business for perhaps 30,000 square miles of
country, for the trade of the north of England
goes largely to Liverpool, Hull, Newcastle, Sunder-
land, etc., and that of the west to Cardiff and other
places. The freight-trains have a short quick run;
they arrive by any one of 10 or 12 railways : their
loads are discharged at about 20 different terminal
stations, and then they get away in haste to resume
business. N.S.W. attempts to compress the trade
of about 300,000 square miles of country into
Sydney. The distances in some cases are enormous,
and heavily-laden long-distance freight trains
plodding on single lines, and constantly side-
tracked to make way for passenger traffic, labor
along for days before they'reach their destination.
Sydney is not approachable from many directions
like London or Melbourne ; it stands on a penin-
sula, with only one main entrance. Also it has
only one main station. As the trains get nearer
and nearer to the city the congestion becomes
worse. Finally, in the last mile of the run
the traffic of three great main lines and about 24
branches (nearly 3500 miles of line in all)
is struggling along one railroad trying to
get to one terminus. Of course, progress is slow
both ways. The terminus gets blocked and the
lines get blocked. The loaded freight train, that
ought to leave the fnr back town of Godforgotten
on Monday, with Mr. Twigg’s produce, dump it
down at the nearest port on Tuesday, and
be back for another load on Wednesday,
is lucky, having to go so many needless
miles along congested lines to a congested
goods terminus, if it gets back 10 days later.
Therefore, it only does about one-fourth of the
work it might do. Borrowing to make new rail-
ways, all pointing to Sydney, will only make the
congestion worse at the Sydney end, and the be-
lated train isn’t likely to get back to Godforgotten
for its fresh load of Twigg’s produce any oftener,
no matter how much money is borrowed. The
plain and simple remedy lies in carrying the trade
every time to the nearest good port, so that the
“ millions of sheep and lambs ” which have “ not
the slightest chance of reaching Sydney,” may
reach any one of half a dozen other big seaports,
which will do them just as well. There is no
other remedy which promises to meet the ease
which is making Mr. Twigg feel so miserable.
The McKye Scandal.
The more the McKye case is stirred up the more
ancient-fish-like it smells. McKye, it will be re-
membered, is the big Chatswood (N.S.W.) baker
who was fined a while back by Judge Heydon,
sitting in the Industrial Court, for systematically
sweating his employees. Three months later
McKye was again brought before the same Judge
for the same offence and again convicted, this
time being mulcted in the extensive sum of £l5O,
though he might have been charged £750. And
here Premier C. G. Wade stepped in, and in
his capacity of Attorney-General, and without
reference to the Judge who tried the case
or any other responsible, unbiassed and know-
ledgable party, remitted half McKye’s fine.
Last week Laborite Carmichael asked in
the N.S.W. Assembly (1) certain questions
relative to the remitting of McKye’s fine,
and (2) whether McKye had been ordered to
pay his men the back wages which he had ille-
gally withheld from them. Wade’s reply to the
first query was characteristic in several ways. He
suggested, tauntingly, that Carmichael’s motive
in asking the question was “insincere,” and that
the only real grievance in the matter was cherished
by the Bakers’ Union “ which, owing to his
(Wade’s) action in remitting the fine, lost £75.”
It betrays a perfectly stupendous ignorance on
Wade’s part. Apparently ho doesn’t know his
own Industrial Disputes Act from the Arbitration
Act whose death he compassed a year ago.
Under the old Act, all fines went to the unions
and were divided, mostly, among the members who
had suffered at the sweater’s hands. Under the In-
dustrial Disputes Act, fines go to the Consolidated
Revenue Fund. It was as palpably unjustifiable
for Wade to level the charge he did at the Union
as it would be for the Union to suggest that Wade
cut down McKye’s fine because that affluent
trader is a constituent of his. In answer to Car-
michael’s second question Wade said that “ he
believed, though he was not sure, that Judge Hey-
don had ordered McKye to pay the men their bank
wages.” Now, when a Premier goes as far as that
the House is fain to take his word without further
question. The House did so on this occasion.
However, it was misled—badly misled. A glance
at the papers in the case reveals that Judge
Heydon made no order that McKye should re-
fund his employees their back wages. If these men
want their money they will have to hire lawyers
and sue individually for it in a court of law.
Indeed, incidentally, McKye has, with the assist-
ance of Wade, done remarkably well by his
illegality. The evidence in his second case showed
that by defying the Court during threb months he
saved about £l9O. Thus even when talk whole of
Judge Heydon’s fine is taken into consideration,
he scored to the tune of £4O over his law-abiding
brother bakers. And Wade made him a gift of a
further £75 ! But what is more serious from the
standpoint of the general public is that Wade
would seem, by his own showing, to .have taken
the step he did without troubling to go into
the case at all. A glance at the J edge’s
order must have served to satisfy any
lawyer as to whether or no McKye had been
directed to reimburse his men. Yet of this fact,
so material to the case which he reviewed, Wade
blandly proclaimed his ignorance in Parliament.
The fine was, without question, richly merited—
the Judge described the offence as an unusually
glaring one. Wade didn’t consult with the
Judge, and obviously he didn’t so much as study
the particulars. On what grounds did he elect to
tamper with justice for McKye’s profit 'l
-♦
The High Commissionership.
“D” discourses:
The contest over the pending appointment of High
Commissioner rages briskly, now in Melbourne, now in
Sydney, and, for the most part, between John Forrest
and his allies on the one hand and G. Reid and his allies
on the other. Certain of the Federal Laborites favor, for
some inscrutable reason, the aspirations of the deplorable
Reid. Foreign-traders of the Hughes brand cherish the
remnants of a fiscal tradition which draws them to him,
and State Frighters like Hall of Werriwa approve his
whole-souled detestation of the National pause. The Tas-
manians are frankly opposed to the idea of anyone being
appointed to a billet which they would hang up
indefinitely if they could, but if the thing is
inevitable they are inclined towards Reid. Deakin
is committed to the view that Reid is an
utterly impossible representative of the Common-
wealth in London or elsewhere, and that is the opinion
of most of the Fusionists who are not frankly anti-Aus-
tralian. To make the job thoroughly palatable to Reid,
it is desirable that it should carry as large a salary as
possible. Hehce the earnest efforts of ItEiD-ites, both in
the Reps, and the Senate, to have the salary men-
tioned in the High Commissioner Bill raised ; and hence
also the ingenuously impudent suggestions made re-
cently on the subject by RfiiD-ite organs in Melbourne
and Sydney.
Forrest having, it is understood, some £5OOO
or £6OOO a year of his own, doesn’t worry
about the sordid subject of salary. He is after
kudos more than coin. This fine and large attitude
of aloof indifference to cash is advanced by the friends oi
Forrest as a powerful argument in his favor. The idea
is that Australia will save by employing, one who is ready
to do the work at the first and lowest figure offered ; and
that, further, if someone isn’t appointed who owns a
private income in addition to his official allowance the
office must languish and be brought into contempt in the
Home of the Flag. Which latter is, of course, a gro-
tesque, not to say an insane, point of view. It is not
necessary, or even desirable, that the Australian Commis-
sioner (who, if be is any good, is going to succeed on his
personal merits) shall make a social splash in London ;
and, anyhow, no sum which any sober Australian Parlia-
ment decided to allocate would enable the recipient to
keep pace with the frequent people there of indecent
wealth who spend £5OOO, not per annum, but on a single
entertainment. The logical conclusion to the main
premise of the Forrest barrackers is that a really ideal
appointment would be that of one of our millionaires—
say, Sam McCaughey or Walter Hall or Rupert Clarke.
Which is too preposterous to bear discussion.
A consideration that is likely to weigh heavily against
Forrest is that if he gets the billet the rickety Fusion
will almost certainly come undone on the spot. He is
disliked not only among the Laborites, but by many in
his own party. He is what the French know as “ fausse-
bonhomme,’’ the sort of transparently bogus “ good sort ”
who more often maddens than pleases those whom lie
essays to soothe. Wilks and Willis, to take two
Ministerial instances, have broadly hinted that they
will do dreadful things by way of protest if Forrest
is given the post, and they typify a number of others on
their side of the House. On the other hand, the Fusees
are in danger, to a certain extent, if Forrest doesn’t get
the job. The rage of the big man from Westralia if he is
baulked of this ambition, which he has cherished openly
for the past eight years, will be a terrible thing
to encounter at close quarters. It is sure that;
Forrest will retaliate by attempting to burst
the Fusion. Yet, herein, the Fusees ruay cheer
themselves by the reflection that his success is
far from certain. Two years afro, when Deakin' was away
ill, Forrest, thinking: to achieve the highest office in the
country, deserted the Nationalist party and joined the
ItEiD-ite Tories. Nothing happened, and within a month
the renegade was one of the most puzzled and annoyed
identities in the House.
The recent revelation that Forrest is a Colonial Office
pensioner—a fact of which most of his closest political
associates were ignorant—came as a bomb amid those
who were engineering in his interests. The absurdity of
sending to London as the Commonwealth’s sole repre-
sentative one who is practically a paid dependant of the
Colonial Office was painfully apparent e.ven to the
warmest of the Forrest enthusiasts.
Outstands the fact that as Forrest is forceful and Dkakin
is weak, almost anything may happen. Where in the past
it has been a question of incurring private unpleasantness
or public censure, Deakin has repeatedly plumped for
the latter. He may be so influenced in regard to
Forrest. He may even go back on his decade-old views
as to the uselessness of G. Reid for the post. Really
with Dkakin any old thing is liable to happen.
♦
Australia is getting pretty well roused to the fact
that it is losing a whole lot of people that it ought
to keep, through the appalling waste from so-
called infantile diseases and from phthisis or con-
sumption. But it hasn’t yet wakened up to the
menacing march of cancer—a disease which is
getting such a hold upon Australia that actually
it killed more people m Greater Melbourne during
the past quarter than phthisis did,and only two less
than all the forms of tubercular disease. It is in
Victoria that the disease appears to be most
virulent ; but in every State the figures
are not only shocking when considered
by themselves, but more shocking still when
considered alohgside the figures of a few
years ago. Coghlan’s last issue of the Seven
Colonies (1899-11)00) showed that, per 10,000 of
the population, the death-rate from this cause had
moved along from tin annual average of 2'76 in
1871-5 to 5'62 in 1896-8. Even so late as 1876-80
only 234 of every 10,000 who died were killed by
cancer ; last year the Commonwealth’s record had
grown to 090 in every 10,000. Thus the disease is
making such alarming progress that, quite apart
from the growth of population, it is sending prac-
tically three times as many people to their graves
as it did only 25 years ago. Tuberculosis is being
slowly mastered ; the waste of life is being steadily
checked. Typhoid fever, too, has been got well
in hand. Only this other repulsive monster
crushes its way ahead, gathering strength as it
goes. Medicine and surgery grapple with it, but
almost wholly in the dark, and mostly they fall
back and admit themselves beaten. “When I
hear of a cure of cancer,” a leading Australian
surgeon said a while ago, “I conclude that it
probably wasn’t cancer.” Inside three years he
died from the disease himself. Australia is
spending large sums in the prevention of disease ;
and the time is coming when it will have to con-
sider whether it should not spend some more in
grappling with a malady which, within five years,
threatens to easily wipe off more of its people
than every form of consumption—hitherto our
champion horror. Yet at this stage the only
way in which the money can be spent is in re-
search. At present we can’t cure—we can’t even
prevent—because we don’t know how.
' •*.
Still apolh.er of the Tales of Mean Streets which
are composed in the home of Freetrade
In a case at Lambeth County Court (London), on
May 6. a woman stated that she received 2d. each for
making blouses, and bad to find her own cotton and pay
another woman Is. a dozen for making the sleeves. It
took two days to make a doz u.
Apparently one woman made Is. a day and the
other made Is. less the cost of the cotton. Prob-
ably the whole bill panned out something like
this :
S. d.
Cost of material .. .. .. .. ..40
Draper’s l’rofit .. .. .. . .. 3 C
Draper’s landlord (possibly duke with three
castles and a grouse moor and a deer forest
and sundries), proport.on of rent chargeable
to blouse .. .. .. .. .. ..24
Two women at a penny each .. .. . . 2
Retail price of blouse .. .. .. 10 0
It seems quite time they had a Minimum Wage
Law and a Fair Rent Law in happy old England.
An attempt has been made to get telephones
manufactured in Australia, but an appeal to local
manufacturers brought no bids. So Custqms
Minister Best was asked why the Government
shouldn’t make them itself, and he replied in a
Polar sort of way that if the thing wouldn’t pay
the private manufacturer it couldn’t possibly pay
the Commonwealth. Which was bosh, and very
boshy bosh at that. If private men took on the
work they would first have to buy the necessary
plant on spec, and no one man cares to do it be-
cause any number more might follow suit, and
there is only one reliable customer, which is the
Government. If six men bought the plant the
cheapest one would get the solitary customer’s
orders, and the other five would find their
machinery a bad debt. With the Commonwealth
it would be a case of putting down erne -plant and
getting all the orders to a certainty. If Senator
Best can’t see a lictle thing like that lie should
consult an oculist.
“ War-Horse ” : A recent Reuter’s message was
to the effect that President Taft denied that he
had ordered a reduction in the U.S.A. army, the
trouble being, according to Taft, that the army
has just reduced itself. It is practically impos.
sible, he says, “to obtain sufficient recruits to
keep 80,000 with the colors.” This affords a
striking endorsement of the futility of the volun-
teer system. Iu the United States the private is
a “ toff,” and is paid and treated as such. Each
of him costs his country 25 dollars a week, which
is to say about £5. Barracks in the U.S.A. are
warmed from roof to basement; they have up-to-
date sanitary appliances; and the food supplied is
the best. The fact of being ir, the ranks of
Uncle Sam’s army carries no slur as it does
in ’he Cold Land. (The English Tommy, unless
t. ..ring or immediately after some important war,
is not allowed to associate with respectable folks.)
The U.S. has a population of nearly 80,000,000,
yet though every inducement is offered to citizens
to join the colors, though the term of enlistment
is short (three years), the pay high, and the disci-
pline incomparably less rigorous than that on the
Continent of Europe or in the United Kingdom,
it is with difficulty the military authorities can
atrract to them l-sth per cent, of the males of the
country. The answer to that dangerous state of
things is compulsory adult service—an apswer
which is already being murmured quite distinctly
in the United States, and which is fairly howled
aloud daily in Great Britain. The way affairs
military are shaping the world over it seems that,
unless Australia is watchful, it will shortly find
itself the last of the nations to continue clinging
to the obsolete old volunteer system.
The Last Australian
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, I dined on Scottish herring, and I slept as
sleep the dead,
In my English pink pyjamas on my chaste Italian
bed 1
And, mayhap, it was the herring, but a vision
came to me
Of the last, last white Australian in his mortal
agony.
By Lake Torrens, dry and dusty, thirsting,
wounded unto death,
All his comrades smashed by Shimose, he lay
gasping out his breath ;
All that wide Australian landscape, all the moun-
tains, plains and seas
Passing from his long possession to the swarming
Japanese,
He beheld with fading vision. And, for better
or for worse.
On the Great Loan Land he’d fought for, now he
left his dying curse.
Blood was caking on his khaki (from the looms
of Lancashire),
On his Yankee contract rifle, on the Dutch re-
volver. near.
All his foreign ammunition he had fiercely shot
away,
With the rest, to keep this country somewhat
white, or even gray.
Then he saw, too late to aid him, on that lonely
Central Plain,
How the Stale Fish Spirit ancient made that lost
Ideal vain.
How the Indent faction firstly reared its Joss-
house to Freetrade,
And a dumping ground for Shoddy of his rich
young country m ide, t
Preached the Gospel of Dependence, till that
creed triumphant ruled,
And the sporting, slow ’Osstralian, by a little
gang was fooled.
So he leaned on Mother Britain, so he lost self-
confidence,
On the Altar Stone of Shoddy laid his manhood
and his pence ;
While the Fishites fiercely flouted and the Ragites
loud withstood
Any feeble aspirations of his soul towards Nation-
hood !
When the Germans cut the cables, then the rest
was shout and scream,
And despair and desolation, so I gathered from
my dream;
Though the fat gaud Mayors all gauded and the
seven Guv’nors guved,
And the social crowd had shouted and the toady
faction shoved.
There was nothing for the nation but migration or
Shimose,
And according to his fancy, so the free elector
chose;
So he kicked his gory putties, and, for better or for
worse,
Laid that last Australian soldier on the Fishite
Crowd his curse:
Yea, he cursed the Great Loan Syspeth, and he
cursed the absentees,
And the British speculators in their homes across
the seas ;
As he threw his Sheffield sabre from its tarnished
Brummy sheath
’Twas disloyalty he uttered through his cheap im-
ported teeth !
Yea, he cursed the Agents-General, and the name
of Thomas Bent,
And the barons of the sheepvvalks, and Black Rod
and Parliament!
But on Toorak (Heaven help us !) he called dowu a
special curse,
That in Sheol all hereafter it might boil in lead or
worse !
Cursed the stout commercial saviors who, at
banquets, full of booze,
To the strains of “Howl Britannia” aired their
idiotic views;
Cursed the Great Importing Houses and the
dreary Dreadnought push.
With the traders of the City and the toadies of
the Bush.
Cursed the un-Australian journals, with their
gods of rag and tin.
Which had Choked young aspiration as a treason-
child of Siu ;
Which had set for Youth’s ideal the disloyal
loyaltee,
Which would sell a country’s freedom for a paltry
C.M.G.
As he bit a Belgian bullet, in his awful dying
throes,
Cursed the last, lone white Australian, that which
bred his country’s woes—
All the wasters, stumpers, wowsers, Brother
Snowball and Bruce Smith,
Dill Macky, the Six Famed Hatters, and the
Petriana myth.
Reid and Cook and Icy Irvine, Wade and
Murray o’er and o’er,
And the Fourteen Talking Houses —which had
talked and nothing more;
All the sporting oafs and tipsters with the punters,
pimps and pugs,
And the shrieking cricket noodles, and the fight-
ing football thugs.
Then that lone unshrived survivor of the White
Race of the South
Spat his last fierce malediction from a pained
despairing mouth,
Took one wild long look of anguish o’er the Asiatic
land,
And by dry Lake Torrens perished, ’mid a
Shimose-shattered band.
VICTORIA.
MALACOOTA.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow. 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
V FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD
•> near G.P.0., Sydney.’
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
*2? attached ; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Exit Bent.
Thomas Bent is dead. He was a very old and
very sick man long before the Victorian State
Premiership left him, and though an attempt is
now made to ascribe his death to worry caused by
the aspersions cast on his noble character when
Parliament made a feeble pretence the other day
of inquiring into his land deals, the attempt is
quite futile. Bent didn’t worry about that in-
quiry ; he was made of different stuff. Also
he was accustomed to being inquired into.
For 36 years, barring one brief interval
of eclipse, Thomas of Brighton was an amazing
figure in Victorian politics. There was no other
politician quite like him on earth. He was loud,
noisy, ignorant, wildly grotesque, a retailer of
stale anecdotes, a singer of comic songs in an im-
possible voice, and the subject of an astonishing
number of smoking-room stories. By his own
acoount, he had done practically everything,
from being an actor to carrying two tons or some
other impossible heap of vegetables to market on
his back. In politics he was an underground
engineer of remarkable ability, and as a turner
and shifter he had no rival. He had very little
constructive ability, no eloquence, and not
much administrative capacity; but he had a
certain bulldog tenacity, and he had the advantage
of being Bent. To be Bent was to be something
so unusual that the man was his own advertise-
ment, and the advt. helped to keep him going.
Being at one time or another practically every-
thing that a politician could be, it naturally hap-
pened that he had a spell as an anti-borrowing
Premier, and that was the one feature of his long
career which calls for enthusiastic commendation.
Yet it wasn’t that which brought him the support
of the Tory press in his later days so much as the
unspeakably brutal methods which he and Ice-
berg- Irvine devised for putting down the iil-
managed railway strike. Then Toryism took
Bent to its bosom. Before he became mixed
up in that disgrace, it had mostly spurned
him. When he became Speaker of the Vic.
Assembly in ’l)2 one Tory paper came out with a
conundrum which read something like this:
“ Why is Mr. Bent the First Commoner of Vic-
toria? Because it would be impossible to
find any commoner person than Mr. Bent.”
But the Tory press forgave him everything
after the railway strike, and things went
well till his maddening comic song of
“Jack Jolt” got on its nerves, and rela-
tions began to get strained again. Moreover,
Bent’s political methods became so utterly mad
and reckless towards the end that the job of find-
ing explanations for him was a wearing task.
However, Bent is gone, and there will never be
another politician quite like him. There couldn’t
be. There aren’t vegetables enough in the world
to make two Bents.
An Argument for an Amended Patent Law.
When the Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia,
Ltd., invited 700 guests to come round and look
over its new and splendid factory in Pitt-street,
Sydney, and blow the froth off it during the
intervals, it gave Australia some valuable hints
on how to make an industry. The sheet anchor
of this progressive concern is the thin filament
mantle which, when suspended over gas or any
other sort of flame, gives a brilliant white light.
Incidentally, it stocks other lighting apparatus;
but its industry is based on the discovery of the
German scientist, Dr. Auer von Welsbach, who
first invented these light mantles. The scientist
was a far-seeing man, and instead of burdening
himself with the control of an enormous establish-
ment on the banks of the Rhine to supply the
whole world, he farmed his discovery out to
various firms in each country. In 1893 the
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia, Ltd., was
formed, and started operations in Wynyard-lane.
Sydney, with a total staff of six hands, who turned
out 5000 mantles during the first year. For the
' ear 1908 the output was 1,750,000 mantles, and
every one of them was made in Australia bv Aus-
tralian operatives. And from a small rented
establishment in a back lane the co. has progressed
by stages to its own building, one of the
best factories south of the equator, in
one of the most expensive parts of Sydney, a
place of bloated land values. Now , this same
phenomenal rise would be happening in a score of
other industries if the patent-holders were compelled
by law to do what the IVelsbach Co. did voluntarily.
Even Britain has now ukased in straight-out
fashion that to preserve a patent right the article
must be manufactured locally, and if Australia
did likewise, instead of the Welsbach Company
being something of a wonder and a thing to be
spoken of as a sort of local phenomenon, it would
be merely one of a crowd. Almost every manu-
facturing country on earth now fixes a limit to
the time that a patent right can run without the
patented article being made locally ; and if Aus-
tralia is to become the manufacturing country the
tariff was designed to make it, it will have to
resort to similar legislation.
+ .
One day last week N.S.W. Minister Moore
harangued a deputation of farmers on the merits of
the Wade Government’s land policy. Little Moore
remarked that closer settlement was the great prob-
lem nowadays, and his Ministry had seized on it
with both hands. • The policy was to borrow
money and buy up large estates ; but as there is
a limit to the borrowing capacity of even the
Wade Government, Moore has a second string to
his bow. He is going to try moral suasion on the
monopolists. The same day it was recorded
in the papers that two large estates in the Coola-
mon district had been cut up by their owners.
Half the blocks were unsold, because the minimum
price demanded was so sky-high that no buyer
would approach it, and the other half were bought
by adjacent big landlords. Not one new settler was
settled. Now, Moore has two chances. He
can borrow money and buy the land at the
owner’s sky-high price—it will probably be
made a little higher still when the owner
sees Moore coming—or he can try if he
has better luck than that crowd of buyers in per-
suading the owner to reduce his figure. If Moore
is going into the persuasive business, he ought to
do some preliminary training to get his mental
muscle up. Suppose he went round Sydney for a
week and persuaded a few prosperous solicitors,
slum landlords and usurers to cut down their
charges. Then he would be in splendid fettle to
tackle the country landlord.
♦
The Federal civil service salaries were in arrear
this month, and the incompetent Bigjohn
Forrest had the gall to blame the fact upon
“ Labor obstruction.” John knew very well that
he only had Supply up to the end of August.
Also he knew that civil service salaries were pay-
able all over Australia on September 15. Yet it
was 11 minutes past three on the afternoon of the
14th before the rather useless old person intro-
duced the matter into the House. It was passed
with reasonable speed, but the Bill had to be sent
to Sydney for the Governor-General's signature,
and then had to go back to Melbourne for the
Auditor-General’s certificate. So the salaries
were late, and dilatory John set it down to the
Labor party as usual. But the Service didn’t.
It made a memo in its hat to vote against John.
Hitherto in its “Wild Cat” section The
Bulletin has been in the habit of post-morteming
the accounts of the Universal Land and Deposit
Bank, Ltd., of Sydney; but it now receives this
from the managing-director :
The directors decided some time ago not to furnish
copies of balance-sheets except to shareholders. I may
say that theco. is simply a proprietary one, and does not
now seek either deposits or share money from the public.
On the whole, The Bulletin is very glad to hear
it. This paper notices, however, that the con-
cern still calls itself a bank; and there is at
present no law to stop it from calling itself
by that name. Moreover, it doesn’t apparently
undertake that it will not take deposits
from the public; all it says is that it doesn’t
“seek” them, though if it advertises itself as a
bank, and takes deposits, it is a moot question
whether it doesn’t really seek them. However,
even assuming that it isn’t taking deposits now,
there is nothing to prevent it taking deposits in
the future ; in fact, if it doesn’t intend to take
deposits in the future, there is apparently no
reason why it should want to call itself a bank.
And it can go on taking those deposits in spite of
the fact that it is frankly a land-speculating co. If
it were a building society it would, in most States,
be barred from taking more than twice as much
in deposits as it had itself put up in capital; but
though the land speculating business may be
much riskier than the building society business,
the land speculator may call himself a bank and
accept just as much in deposits as the public can
be induced to leave with him. It is about time
the Australian law told him that he mustn’t do
anything of the kind.
♦
A SORRY pretence these days is the spectacle of
employees in certain industries protesting against
the appointment of Wages Boards to better their
condition. A case in point is the employees’
recent petition against a Board in the Victorian
paper-making industry. These unfortunate people
published a wildly humorous intimation to the
effect that they didn’t want anything of the sort,
because they were perfectly satisfied with the
conditions, and didn’t desire to disturb the
“ amicable relations ” at present existing between
them and their employers. Hereabouts Evans,
M.L.C., uttered a few remarks. He said that
since an effort had been made to obtain a Wages
Board for the trade, 25 to 30 employees had.been
sacked, and many of the dismissed had been
prominent in the formation of the new union.
He also said, as per sworn evidence furnished as
recently as January last, that married men in the
trade had been receiving 30s. a week, some of
them after 30 years’ experience ; that men in
charge of machines obtained as much as
275. 6d. a week; and that female adults
were handed from 13s. 9d. to IBs. a week,
Yet, in spite of that evidence, the House of
Rich Landlords professed to believe that the em-
ployees’ protest was a genuine affair, and was not
the result of compulsion, and to its eternal dis-
grace the Board was refused. Yet if the Land-
lords had believed their own hollow pretence they
would have granted the Board right there.
Nothing could have been a better certificate of the
virtues which the employer says he possesses than
the spectacle of his workpeople appearing before
the Board and declaring that they were perfectly
satisfied with the present liberal —even lavish —
arrangements, and wouldn’t have them disturbed
on any account. But, unfortunately, it was well-
known that they wouldn’t have said anything of
the kind, and the pompous hypocrisy would have
been busted up.
♦
The papers have been biographing the British
delegates to the Chamber of Commerce Congress
now sitting in Sydney, and describe one of them
as a “ Mungo manufacturer.” Mungo sounds so
much better than shoddy, but all the difference
between mungo and shoddy is that technically
shoddy is made only of old worsted rags, while
mungo is made of old woollen rags. The Austra-
lian and Maoriland woollen manufacturer cries
aloud for high Protection, not merely because the
foreigners’ wages are low and his working condi-
tions often had and cheap, but because the
foreigner uses up the economical filthy rubbish
dragged out of evil holes in European and
Asiatic and African cities; and when he
raises that cry, some superior person invari-
ably begs to say that the British manufac-
turer only uses the best of materials, and that the
yarn about the British manufacturer working up
old rags is a lie. Yet it seems that, not only is the
business done, but it is so highly respectable and
important that a representative of the “indus-
try ” is one of the dozen or so speakers for Great
Britain in a conference of the Empire’s Chambers
of Commerce.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Kins: of Cadonia.”
Theatre Royal “ Jack and Jill.”
Criterion “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Amy Castles (23rd and 25th).
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving- Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Theatre Royal “As You Like It.”
King's “The Man She Loves.”
Princess’s “ The Silver King.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building Moving Pictures.
Athenaeum Hall Tait.’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Ice Skating.
4.
Amy Castles came back to Sydney last
week with six years’ musical training and experi-
ence behind her. Her voice proves to have lost
none of its old time exquisite freshness, and
it has gained immensely in compass, sym-
pathy and style. The incomparable Bouhy
has given her, amongst other things which
she had not before, an effortless purity
of attack in bravura passages and a faultless
diction. Her tones are still full of the wondrous
liquid sweetness that moved to wild enthusiasm
huge Melbourne and Sydney crowds when she first
saner in her native land as a practically uncultivated
child ; and to-day she adds to that divine
quality the presence and charm of a young woman
of the world. There is no question that in the
matter of technique and brilliant coloratura sing-
ing she now takes rank among the very greatest
of modern sopranos. She was at her best on
Saturday night in the “ Ah ! fors e lui ” number,
so uniquely suited to her method, and in
which the sustained trill was a thing of per-
fect beauty. A couple'of Willebv ballads fol-
lowed. It is doubtful whether the rendering
of royalty songs not particularly meritorious in
themselves, and of a sort ill-calculated to show off
such an organ of hers, was worth while in the
circumstances. “The Last Rose of Summer”
was rendered with appropriate simplicity and re-
strained passion. Verdi’s fine “ Caro Nome ”
followed, stirring the house to a remarkable out-
burst of applause, and as an encore the star sang
with striking brilliancy the page’s song from
“Un Ballo in Maschera’/'
* * * *
Anderson Nicol, the possessor of a pure,
rich and highly-trained tenor, opened with
Gounod’s “Lend Me Your Aid,” and was re-
called to sing “My Fairest Child.” Wynne’s
“ Together ” earned him a double encore. Peter
Dawson, the S. Australian basso, disappointed
somewhat in Handel’s “O Ruddier than the
Cherry.” He took the fancy of the audience
immensely in more popular airs—notably Carroll’s
quaint “Rip Van Winkle” song and tbe time-
worn “Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep.”
Victor Biisst is a sure and graceful pianist,
and Adrian Amadio —hardly at his best
on Saturday night—is a promising young flautist.
Slapoffski’s excellent orchestra accompanied the
star in her operatic selections, and <T. G. Svkes
was a satisfactory accompanist on the piano. This
fine concert combination will appear at Sydney
Town Hall to-night (Thursday) and on Saturday
next.
** * *
“One of the Best” was revived by the
Bland Holt Co. at Sydney Royal on Monday
night last. This play differs from tbe generality
of its kind, inasmuch as it is direct and simple as to
plot. It is said to be founded on the Dreyfus drama.
If so the adaptors have taken many liberties with
the famous original. Even a French anti-Semite
would see through and turn down, as too
thin, the childish manoeuvres by which the
virtuous Keppel is brought to temporary ruin ;
nor, one conceives, would the authorities any-
where, once they had their man gaoled for treason,
hurriedly exonerate him on the casual say-so of an
exasperated and confessedly unreliable female.
These things, however, by the way. The real
purpose of the play is (1) to enable the manage-
ment to display some surpassingly good scenery
from the brash of the late and lamented Brunton ;
(2) to afford the Sydney public a last regretful
view of every military uniform in the Holt ward-
robe, and (3) to allow Bland himself to frolic, for
the ultimate time on any N.S.W. stage, in kilts.
* * * *
Lieut. Dudley Keppel is “of the 2nd
Highlanders,” who are stationed among the
mountains of Portsmouth. He assists Lieut.-
General Coventry (“in command at Ports-
mouth”) in his office-work. The Lieut,
strikes a note of originality by arriving
at his daily toil in a Highlander’s plaid
trouserings, a Rifle Brigade tunic, a V.C.
and spurs. When he adventures into the
chill night air he affects a scarlet-lined cloak of
the sort the British Lifeguardsinan employs to
allure the London serving-maid. This latter gar-
ment brings about his undoing. When Philip
Ellsworth, a ruffianly proprietor of saw-
mills, is ushered by naughty Esther Coven-
try (the unworthy child of the Lieut.-
General of that ilk) into the office where
Dudley usually works, and is (there dis-
covered searching for plans, he throws Dudley’s
evening wrapper round him, turns his back, and
is at once accepted as the legitimate proprietor of
the robe. When Philip is impelled later to stab
Sir Archibald Macgregor, K.C.8., in the back,
the blame for the evil deed falls on Dud.
“The Court Martial” scene is respon-
sible for a flood of emotionalism, and for some
uniforms which J. C. Neild himself never
dreamed of. “A Soldier’s Degradation,” which
occurs at the end of Act 111., is the inevitable
corollary to the appalling, not to say fat-beaded,
imperceptiveness of that section of the British
army which controls the military destinies of
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough Rem-
edy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite with
mothers everywhere.*
Portsmouth. One by one Dudley’s garments
are torn from him ; his sword is broken;
an effort is even made to snatch his V.C.
But here he rebels, or bucks. It would seem
that he has been accustomed to wear his VvC. day
and night ever since he got it, and sd has
become warmly attached to it. Uttering hot
words of protest, he hands the ornament to Mary
Penrose, who loves him ; and then, with the some-
what irrelevant cry of “ God Save the King!”
he retires up stage to begin a sentence of penal
servitude for life. In Act IV. the mortgagee fore-
closes on Ellsworth’s mills (when was there ever
a solvent villain ?); Ellsworth refuses to marry
Esther ; she, in a fit of natural pique discloses all
to her horrified progenitor, and Keppel is straight-
way released and publicly handed the regimental
colors.
Miss Bessie
Major as
Mrs. Spencer.
“ONE OF THE
BEST,” AT SYD-
NEY ROYAL.
Lie at.-General Charles
Brown and friends.
Bland Holt makes a cheery Highlander,
and exploits during the evening most of the
usual jests regarding kilts—their disadvantages in
breezy weather, the way they permit flies to
browse on the legs of the wearer, and so forth.
Mrs. Bland is his affinity, a sprightly lady’s maid.
Max Maxwell portrays the ill-used Keppel as a
handsome, sombre youth with a Gallic apprecia-
tion of dramatic effect and pathos. Godfrey Cass
and Charles Brown are a fairly likely pair of old
soldiers. Arthur Styan is a useful villain, and
Harrie Ireland a convincing and artistic villainess.
* * *- #
The above will desist after next Friday,
and the pantomime of “Jack and Jill” is billed
to fill the void. “Jack and Jill ” will be recalled
as the gay and melodious entertainment in which
the tea-drinking habits of our ultra-fashionables
are so shrewdly satirised.
** * *
Amid a surrounding world of theatrical
change “The King of Cadonia” pursues at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, the even shekel-amassing
tenor of its way, and the management is thinking
of nailing the legend “House Full” to a mast
and leaving it there permanently.
* #
At 1 p.m. to-day (Thursday) an unusual
ceremony is to occur at Sydney Criterion. An
auction sale will be held on the stage, whereat
will be vended the whole of the stalls and dress
circle seats for the first night of the Asche-
Brayton season, which starts on Saturday week.
The management has been driven to this unusual
course since, Owing either to the phenomenal busi
ness done by the Asches in Melbourne or to
the over-seas fame of these excellent mummers,
there are about 700 more would-be first-nighters
offering than the Cri. is capable of accommodat-
ing. Meanwhile the necessity for enlarging the
back of the house for the production of “The
Shrew ” (with which diverting play the co. opens),
“As You Like It,” and other spectacular pieces,
has sounded the death knell of “ Cinderella.” The
lady will abandon her kitchen for the last time
on Saturday night next.
* * sfc *
There is nothing new at Sydney Tivoli
this week. The religious seals and the Sprightly
Sisters provide the best of the entertainment, and
Blake and Granby have a small, unassuming play-
let in a minor key which, at one stage, threatens
to leave the dramatic rails in a flood of senti-
mentality, but, instead, keeps on the straight
and narrow track, and finishes with unex-
pected snap. The seals seemed a bit tired when
this scribe gazed at them last Saturday night;
they went through their performance as willingly
and well as ever, but there was a matinee
weariness about their serious countenances, and,
as they rolled in their pulpits, they seemed to
be asking to be allowed to go back to their nice,
damp tank. The seals are beautiful and intelli-
gent animals, and it is a darned shame that
millions of their species should have been slain to
provide coverings for many people who weren’t
even good. When the final adjustment of accounts
between man and the animals is made by Provi-
dence, there will be a horrifying bill to be settled
under the heading “ Sea Lions.” Other principal
creditors will be the ostrich, the bird of paradise,
the tom cat and the rabbit. (The two latter are
the understudies of other fur-wearers. As the
war-poet might have remarked, “They’re not
mentioned in despatches, but thev do their humble
share.”) Miss Athmore Gray, the English dancer,
is graceful, but there is not sufficient abandon in
her performance; a joyous prance is what the
honest Tivolean appreciates. Johnson of the
cake-walks, Yaude and Yerne, Ronald George
and the Wheelers complete the honor list.
*# # *
Chung Ling Soo has left Adelaide Tivoli,
and he actually broke out into speech on his last
night there. In fact, he has left Australia, and
taken with him his bland smile (which recalls that
of Warner, the cricket captain) and his unrivalled
stock of scientific tricks. Of these latter, he
devised some more while in Australia, for the
further puzzling of London. His place is hard to
fill, but the Kremkas and the Bells and Ted
Kalman are doing their best at the old “ordinary”
prices. The Royal also has reverted to
its usual tariff. The Marlow co. fell back
on “East Lynne” (with the railway accident
thrown in) for its last nights, and now “The
Hypocrites” is running. The Jones play is well
enough though not so polished as “ The Liars.”
Clarke, Meynell and Gunn are urging it as a
social problem of dubious propriety; clergymen


To cure a nasty cold !
His home was Pandemonium
For weeks and weeks, I’m told ;
He made a fearsome hullabaloo,
And smashed the furniture !
But now he’s well (and sober, too)
Through Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough Rem-
edy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite with
mothers everywhere.*
- > o alHa-
❖
*
O
*
QOLF
t*
flc
FISH NG
RIVER
DEEP
and
SEA
o
SURF'BATHING.
BQATING.
Launch meets train at Nowra Of
terminus. Lunch on board.
jfA Telegrams—MANAGEß,
\ CREENWELL POINT. A
V'"
admitted free, and if they disapprove the Manage-
ment (in large type), “will have no hesitation in
withdrawing it.” This kind of thing always
recalls the man Mark Twain tells of, who labelled
his perfectly harmless show “For Men Only,”
and remarked “If that don’t fetch a Kentucky
audience, I’m no judge ! ” Harcourt Beatty has a
fine part as the clerical champion of the Traviata
girl. Minor entertainments have been legion, the
sole but sufficient reason being Show Week.
** * *
Melbourne’s one and only classic drama
was written by the Divine Jones and the Im-
mortal Hermann. Presently a number of solemn
suburban citizens will form a “Silver King”
Society for the discussion of questions which recur
to mind with each revival of the play that now
rushes in where “East Lynne” has Ceased
to tread. Then will the present scribe
contribute papers on the subject of hairiness
in its relation to holiness, explaining why
Wilfred Denver cheats the barber when he
changes his name to John Franklin, and giving
reasons why he should get his hair cut after his
innocence is proved. Also the character of the
Spider’s wife will be considered from the point of
fact that she always “ dressed ” for dinner. More-
over, lady members of the society will be invited
to challenge Mr. Tubbs’ assertion that women
restrict their newspaper reading to the “spicy
bits.” “The Silver King” has grown so old in
popularity that it might as well be adopted as a
cult.
* * * *
This revival at Melb. Princess’s is of
special interest to learned commentators because
of G. S. Titheradge in the name part. There
have been many good Denvers, but Titheradge
was always the daddy of them. To-day his im-
personation is hampered by weight of age ; yet,
strange to say, he is more forcible in the opening
scenes, and especially when he puts the tablecloth
over Geoffrey Ware’s cold remains, than in the
later and easier acts. There are some noticeable
shortcomings in his get-up. He might at least
have come back from the Derby in a grey
bell-topper instead of a black one, and the
ill-fitting jacket he wears when disguised as
a sailor should have been a nautical serge blouse,
anyhow. Eardley Turner has put more feeling
into his .mikes sinoe he played the part at Her
Majestv’s’ with Kolker as Master Will. Also
Cam bourne is now a capital Elijah Coombe of the
stereotyped kind, being not so drawlsorne and obvi-
ously hypodritical as a lot of other Coombes who
have imitated one another. But there is no reason
why all the mannerisms of Arthur Redwood—the
Coombe of 1883—should be reproduced by Cam-
bourne, a clever character actor who has ideas of
his own. Young Titheradge repeats his amusing
Corkett with increased effect, the only fault in
his performance being his preposterous garb of
destitution when he turns up at the Spider’s villa
after doing 12 months in quod. Plimmer is the
same cool Spider as of yore, plus a suggestion of
latent ferocity. But he seems to be storing
reserve force in his stummick. Plimmer’s petite
Marie grows protuberant and needs his earnest
attention. Boyd Irwin shouts the lines of Cripps.
the locksmith. Small, valuable characters are
well done by Gregan McMahon, Maurice Dudley,
H. Frederick, Lawrence Hardinge and others,
and the Cissy Denver is about the brightest stage
child the drama has experienced. Some of the
full-grown ladies are less satisfactory. Miss Cal-
vin merely walks, like a town charmer, through
the easy little part of Susie, the waitress
at the country inn. Miss Grimston is a
very weak Ofive Skinner, and Miss Ethel
Warwick presents Nellie Denver as an
elegant young woman of rather sombre dis-
position. She flares up a bit when she has to
show fire, but there is nothing of the angelic, long-
suffering matron about her. She has the artificial
complexion of Mrs. Brown Potter. In the snow-
topped cottage, she looks as though she had spent
her last half-crown at the hairdresser’s, and when
she rushed to the arms of her returned Wilfred,
last Saturday night, she smothered his shoulder
with face powder and left the imprint of five
whitewashed fingers on the back of his coat.
" Silver King ” will last until the middle of next
week, when the season closes. It is staged well
enough, but not brilliantly. The management
has not even gone to the trouble of supplying a
fall of snow in the third act, consequently
Denver’s gaiter-boots look like an unnecessary
precaution against the weather.
* -* * -&
At Melbourne Royal an unpoetical public
seems to admire “As You Like It” rather less
than it loved “The Shrew” and doted on
“Othello.” The house is filled, even crowded ;
but the demand for standing room has slackened.
‘‘As You Like It” lacks the vulgar human
interest of the previous plays, nor are the merits
of originality in Oscar Asche’s production fully
appreciated by those people whose youthful ideas,
well saved, are a world too narrow for
these expanded times. Even the feebleness
of octogenarian Adam has been criticised,
simply because a hundred old Adams of the
antique stage modified their weakness in
accordance with their claim to be “lusty.” In
this show the venerable teetotaler appears as a
self-deceiver. He “kids himself” that because he
joined the Y.M.C.A. in his youth he is excep-
tionally strong for his age, whereas he is bound to
collapse at the end of his long walk with Orlando.
Doubtless the Bard intended him to be a pathetic-
ally Christian example of the error of not going it
a bit whilst you are young. And Grim wood
carries out this conception of the part. His new
“reading” of .Adam is as refreshing as Asehe’s
picture of an unkempt Jacques. For the
rest of the men. they fill their places all
save Charles the Wrestler, who couldn’t
win a putty medal in an amateur competi-
tion. “As You Like It” will display Miss
Brayton at her best until Wednesday (29th), when
the Forest of Arden will be uprooted and sent to
Sydney. Meanwhile the compa.-.y is to give a
dress recital of “Julius Caesar” at the Town
Hall. It takes the platform on Saturday after-
noon, and Oscar Asche, it seems, is to be the noble
Brutus, not the artful Antony.
** * *
These are the last nights of “ Duchess of
Dantzic,” at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne). Miss
Florence Young fell out of the cast last week—
or rather a motor-car threw her out—and Miss
Nellie Wilson took her place acceptably. After a
month of “Dantzic” a revival of “The Girls of
Gotten berg ’ will catch Melbourne’s willing ear,
and its frank frivolity will relieve the city of the
suspicion that J.C.W.'s Royal Comic Opera Cos.
has become converted to cheap melodrama in its
old age.
** # *
“The Man She Loves,” which was last
Saturday’s intrusion at Melbourne King’s, is dull
as Andersonian melodrama goes. Its strong suit
is a rabid reverence for the sanctity of the home.
The villain and his accomplices are drab infelici-
ties. Other people are rigidly proper affec-
tations. The story begins with an ordinary
family disruption in an untruly rural
centre, whereupon the disintegrated fragments
drift with most of the available population into
the heart of London. There villainy riots in its
best belltopper, while all the disunited atoms of
the tragedy run into each other in the most
accidental fashion. They seem to do little else
but run into each other, and postpone to the last
act a mass of lugubrious explanation which
they might very well have made in the
first. Still, they provide a little entertain-
ment for the multitude. The forlorn wife,
who drops from a high position in the squirearchy
of England, ceases to wear glad summer raiment
and degenerates into the clothes which the stage
heroine always assumes in her hour of woe.
Her husband and child go the usual track
of th.at kind of play—the one that leads to
the Thames Embankment and such places.
The acting is fair or thereabouts. Roy Red-
grave is satisfactory, without being very interest-
ing, as a deserted squire ; and Laurence
Dunbar, as a tolerable scoundrel, is incurably
morbid. Ned Duggan plays a Cockney Jew with
automatic levity, and Bert Bailey is a stupendous
irrelevancy in buttons. Still, one feels grateful
to Bailey in this piece. He certainly carries
on like an absurd summer drink, but his
effervescence is almost a brilliant variant to
so much indigestible matter. Temple Harrison
is a beery laborer who has to pretend to be
married to the vociferous Miss Bryer. Miss
Fanny Erris is light and likeable in a small part;
but Miss Olive Wilton, as a tepid adventuress, is
obviously unaccomplished. At best, her mum-
ming is only a mannerism, which is not helped by
her peculiar elocution. Miss Daisy Scudamore is
also unfavorably regarded as the heroine of the
production. In a quiet scene she displays no
especial quality whatever ; but when she wants to
express her outraged feelings she is not an actress
but a din.
A VISION OF THE APACHE DANCE
AT HER MAJESTYS (SYDNEY).
The very latest cinematographic establish-
ment in Melbourne is .St. George’s Hall, adjoining
the Royal—a revival of the original St. George’s,
where Rickards, of yore, sang his way into favor
and fortune, and negro minstrelry outlived its
vogue. In later years St. George’s was stripped
of its original character and converted into a
drapery store, but now with a new vestibule and
three, festive front doors the old show place looks
itself again. A feature of “Hoyt’s Pictures,”
which made a joyful start last Saturday night, is
a sweet she-male orchestra, and the fixings in
general are as bright and decorative as the bevy of
instrumentalists.
* * * *
Among Tait’s Pictures at Melbourne
Athenaeum is a film which is commended to all
solitary bachelors. An ancient unmarried gentle-
man goes forth loaded to the Plimsoll with liquors
in variety, and in the course of a rudderless,
beerlogged voyage he rescues a waif, and becomes so
fond of the child that he drops alcohol and
marries the nipper’s mother. The Taits are also
showing some instructive and skilfully-tinted
pictures of the Tea Industry, as well as a farce
flicker on the Coupon Craze, which will be found
entertaining to all lovers of the fragrant weed.
* -* * *
At West’s new Melbourne building “ The
Red Hand ” is rioting over the screen once more,
and is leaving its gory impress on the minds of
large congregations. Possibly the picture has not
yet been eclipsed in vividness or thrill, nor
has its incidental Apache Dance been approached
by anything else on this continent. Mean-
time “ The Death of Mozart” is showing how a
genius can die to the “ appropriate musical accom-
paniment of West’s Premier Military Band” ; and
“For the Motherland” discloses how a lady
shoots the perfidious betrayer of her husband.
Also there are pictures of scenes in Portugal
which are quite peaceful, and convey no hint that
it is a country where lately two successive kings
died by violence inside five minutes.
ifc * & *
The sweet reasonableness of an Australian
audience was put to a severe test on the opening
night of the new West’s building in Melbourng.
It is a fine, large building which carries its own
roof on its girders, so that pillars are dispensed
with, and everybody gets an uninterrupted view
of the pictures when they happen. But on the
first night the pictures were an hour late. A
temporary derangement of the dynamo, due to
its being shifted from Olympia a few hours
previously, had checked the supply of projecting
iight, and for half an hour the multitude
wondered why nothing came to pass on the
screen. Then a voice from the megaphone
desired them to keep on waiting as before,
whilst the band soothed their savage breasts.
Fortunately the military band had an inexhaust-
ible repertoire and a fine collection of lungs. It
played like a fountain. After a full hour of delay
the megaphone reported that the mechanists had
stopped the leak in the light, and (with the excep-
tion of about 50 people who got their money back
and went away) the crowd received its belated
entertainment with cheers of gratitude. Aus-
tralians in the mass are the most philosophical
people on earth. In this case 13 long films were
put through the machine without a pause to make
up for lost time. As the audience dispersed
somebody made everybody laugh by remarking
that he wished all performances had the interval
at the beginning, instead of in the middle.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House the last nightsof
theeducateddawgsarethe principal announcement
on the bill. Which doesn’t speak volumes for the
bill, seeing that the dogs, as a rule, are rather
smaller than some cats that formerly did much
the same things in a more graceful way. A new
“turn” on Saturday will, it is said, restore the
star of Rickards to its proper position in the
heavens.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Hiphen ” : In the performance of “As You Like It”
one thing struck me forcibly—the quantity of apples the
company ate. As the melancholy Jacques delivered his
famous soliloquy about all the world being a theatrical
performance, he solemnly munched an apple. I’ve
always been taught that to speak with your mouth full is
rude, also that it interferes with good elocutionary
effects. I’m sure they don’t do it at the Ballarat South-
street competitions. The next apple was eaten by Lily
Brayton, while waiting outside her hut for Griando.
Celia followed suit; also Audrey, the country wench,
though a turnip would have suited her just as well. They
offered one of the fruit to Orlando’s old servant, but he
was having none. Probably his teeth had turned dog on
him.
That historic home of early-day histrionics, the little
St. George’s Hall, in Bourke-street, Melbourne, has been
rescued from its threatened fate as a penny gaff, and
is now dolled up once more as an abode of the flicker-
graph. In 1863 the old hall sheltered Edgar Bay and
Bushell the mesmerist. B. E. Sampson, Miss Atkins,
Professor Jacobs, Carr (another mesmerist), Walter
Montgomery and others followed. Anna Bishop
showed there in ’69; in ’72 Harry Bickards had
a turn; then George Coppin ; after him a troupe
of Japanese contortionists. In ’77 Keller, Cunard
and Ling Look had it a while ; after which it rose to its
pinnacle with Fanny Simonsen’s company—Charles
Harding, tenor. After that minstrelsy got it—the
Georgias, Kelly and Leon’s, Miss Allison’s, the Mastodons,
Kennedy and McCarthy’s, and, in ’BS, Billy Emerson’s.
Cogill Brothers held it as a variety hall for a fair term,
and since then almost anybody and anything has shown
there—even the lamentable mesmerist Kennedy exhibited
his foolish victims a couple of times. It will disappear
entirely in a few' years, when the whole block is to be
re-built; but, meantime, the jumpy biograph catches the
casual sprat.
“0.K.” : The “boom” of the Oscar Asche co. in Mel-
bourne is unexampled in all respects. Never before has
there been such well-sustained patronage for Shak-
spearian plays ; and never before was the patronage in
general, and especially in the amphitheatre, so largely
represented by Girl. In the front row of the gods the
other night, I counted 50 girls to five men. On several
occasions during the season the amphitheatre has been
filled by 5 o’clock—three hours before the show started.
The early comers were women—more than 90 per cent,
of them—and mostly young. These enthusiasts are not
content with going on first nights and last nights.
They are there two or three times a week. The
same faces and the same hats have grown familiar
to the commissionaire who directs , the queue in
the vestibule. The few men who repeat themselves night
after night are old, as a rule ; but the average age of t he
females is about 22, and they bring their “ book of the
words” with them. They are reading Shakspeare just
now in preference to Marie Corelli. Oddest fact of all in
this strange, eventful history—the boom gave no indica-
tion of its intention on the second or third nights of the
season. There was an excited rush to the first Saturday
performance, but on Monday night the attendance
dropped, and on the Tuesday it was no better. Two
nights later every seat in Melbourne, Boyal was bought,
and ever since the business has been immense.
“Hassan”: The history of the Melbourne Theatre
Managers’ Association, alluded to by “ S.S.” (B. 9/9/’O9),
had for astarting point the Nose of Israel, which looketh
like a tower toward Dividends. He who manages the
Theatre Boyal discovered that the free-lists of the
two morning papers were as terrible as an army with
banners. His mind, trained to the higher mathematics,
waded into the business, and he was left gasping at the
idea that about £3OO worth of seats went annually to the
pres§ in each of the more important Melbourne theatres.
He was horrified, and told the other managers. The
result is that now the reporteis on the dailies have
to ask the news-editor for the tickets when they
wish to go to the play—they cannot drop in for
an act or so, as in the brave days of old. The
innovation ought, however, to have one excellent
result hardly foreseen by the Managers’ Association.
The cold, hard truth should begin to peep from the
columns of the papers. The startled public may yet
learn that Miss Tottie Fewclothes, who has been engaged
at enormous expense, is only a third-rate star after all,
and that the brilliant imported company is putting up a
freeze to the enthusiastic applause of the ushers. If this
sort of thing comes to pass the new order will shortly
slide into oblivion, and the glad hand will again be ex-
tended to the reporter as he drops in for another look at
“ The Shriek from the Casement.”
Beaumont Smith, who gave up newspaper work to
become William Anderson’s secretary, is back in Adelaide
(his old home) from London. He says that, besides
the lecturing engagement of Miss Muriel Matters which
was cabled, arrangements are practically completed with
Jerome K. Jerome to come along next year; also with
Mrs. Tom Thumb, who was here with her late General
over 30 years ago, and is now a charming old lady of 70
years and 26 inches. Bernard Shaw and H. G. Wells
were angled for industriously, but could not be tempted.
“Melb.”: Williamson and Cos. publish the original Mel-
bourne cast of “ The Silver King.” Since Titheradge the
King has been acted by' W. Holloway, Inglis, Plimmer,
Bentley, Knight, Hedley, etc. The original Jaikes was
Day, who was succeeded by Hoskins, Elton, C. Holloway,
Hodges and others. The original Silver King was Barrett.
His brother George was the London Jaikes. Phil Day had
a good career in England. Acted in Cambridge with
Brooke and Irving, both together. Was the original
in London of Mortimer Mumpleford in “Confusion.”
The original Melbourne Spider was Garner, of the
old firm, husband of Blanche Stammers. The origi-
nal Olive Skinner was Jenny Watt-Tanner. The
Elijah Coombe was Redwood, one of the unlucky Deacon
Skinners in “ Struck Oil.” The others were O’Brien and
Sefton, the latter of whom was one of the three pot-house
cronies in “The Silver King,” with E. Marshall and Daniels.
Marshall, Freddy’s brother, was killed by a Melbourne
tram. Daniels is stage-doorkeeper at the Opera House.
Pursuing “The Silver King” cast, Leake, as Cripps,
came from America as a star, with “My Partner.”
Acted Othello to Miln’s lago. That great Shakspearian
student and ohce eminent comedian, Hoskins, had to
become the original Gaffer Pottle. “My poverty and not
my will consents.” Oily Deering, Stirling Whyte and
Frank Oates were also in this wonderful cast. Then the
irrepressible Hans Phillips was once Mr. Henry Corkett.
Nor let us forget fat Jack Bryan as the Cabman. Annie
Mayor as Nellie Denver has not been beaten since. Mrs.
Marcus Clarke once had a little part.
“Silas”: “The Bushwoman,” by Jo Smith, was not
satisfied with bringing the town-bred person into con-
temptuous contrast with Billjim of the Bush, by reason
of his inferior physique, morals and manners ; it also
hurled derision at him because of his intolerable clothes.
Jo Smith, dramatist, had the idea by the wool, but he
reckoned without his actors. The plaiin-clothes bushman
in his native wilds may toss a gibe at a town-bred char-
acter in a corset-cut coat and American peg-top pants
and feel justified; but the stage bushman, dressed as
Redgrave and a few others have upholstered him in “ The
Bushwoman,” should observe an ominous silence in
respect to duds. A gorgeous settler in a flame-colored
shirt, mauve velvet-cord riding pants, a red and flowing
handkerchief about his neck, and patent leather knee
boots like those of a rich pirate, can’t, with reason or jus-
tice, jeer at anybody’s clobber. And even if he does it is
no use; his voice is drowned by the yells of his own
wardrobe. Two of these stage bushies have already been
seriously injured by the explosion of their clothes.
Fred B. Norton, the agent for the existing advt.
curtain at Melbourne Royal, writes in protest against the
libellous comments which “ Star ” and others have passed
upon that startling work of commercial art. “Star”
spoke of “ the urgent appeal of the liver medicine
between the acts of “ Othello,” etc., etc. Norton writes :
“ There is not a nerve suggestion in any advt. on the
•urtain, which was painted by Phil Goatcher. The trail
of the Apothecaries’ Hall is absent. Why should not a
gracefully-painted curtain convey to the audience sug-
gestions of the cup that cheers, the succulent lolly, the
gossamer-like corset, the cocoa that warms the interior of
kings and queens, the starch that stiffens the shirt-fronts
of its most cultured beholders, and so on? In ‘The
Taming of the Shrew ’ we have Grumio inquiring of Kath-
arina : ‘ What say you to a piece of beef and mustard ?’ In
‘Othello’ the villain sings: ‘Let me the cannikin clink,
clink, clink ’ —then why’ should not the curtain suggest a
suitable liquor to put in the cannikin ? In the epilogue to
‘As You Like It ’ fair Rosalind starts off by remarking
that ‘ Good Wine needs no bush.’ [Consequently’, to
be in keeping with the bush, why’ not sell vege-
tables in the vestibule? —Ed. B.]. Shakspeare is full of
references to things we eat and drink, so the curtain in
that respect is essentially Shakspearian. Let me tell
‘Star’ that the Asches were not ‘strongly moved to
abolish the thing,’having, I take it, no inclination, and
certainly’ no right, to do so. The management is so
strongly’impressed with the monetary value of the said
curtain that they have, from the termination of my’ two
years’ lease, raised the royalties 50 percent. I have not
renewed my’ lease, but another firm has rushed into the
breach, and on Derby’night anew and.gorgeous display’
of advts. will excite some more * disgusted opposition.’
Meanwhile I would remind the opposition that there are
Tongues in trees,
Books in the running ads.,
Sermons in stones,
And good in everything.”
“ G.D.P.”: Meynell and Gunn’s people have been roar-
ing over a Dunedin (M.L.) incident. One night at “ The
Hypocrites” an engaged couple, members of two of the
Naicest families, were in front seats in the circle, when,
just as the second act was opening, a horrified Algernon
jumped up and towed the lady’ off the premises, explain-
ing that it wasn’t a fit piece for either his treasure or
himself to listen to. Next evening, when the lights went
up after the first curtain, the co. had its attention drawn
to Algernon, sitting in the back stalls with some club-
mates ; and as Algy turned to go out and inquire after
the usual old dog, they’ watched his astonishment as he
saw the lily-white dearest with a party of girl-friends sit-
ting only’ two rows behind them. Now most of the mem-
bers of that co. reckon that for cant Dunedin will take
some beating.
“Busk”: Wonderful how a slab of imagination will
strike actuality’. Now there is that little caricature in
the last BcjIjLETIN about the actor who used to be ambi-
tious, “ but it is no longer necessary, because he has
married his landlady ” (like Creswick, in Sydney). The
exact case of Stuart O’Brien, a worthy Australasian per-
former in the generation before last. Harrie Ireland’s
dad and Arrowsmith Ryan knew him well. O’Brien was
desperately’ ambitious. He imitated Brooke, as H. N.
Warner and the other leaders did. Stuart O’Brien’s
Othello, Louis XI., etc., knocked old Ballarat and Ben-
digo. Then he moodily subsided into the job of a stock
actor at Melbourne Royal, with fitful chances. At last
came realisation. He married Widow Morrow, of
Morrow’s Hotel, in Nicholson-street, Fitzroy. No more
ambition. His words were : “I don’t want the press to
say anything about me, good or bad.” Respectability
satisfied him. He was the only actor I ever heard of that
insured his life. Of course there have been two or three
others.
WHERE DO THE WICKED GOV
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nHRISTADELPHIAN Assembly. Bible Hall, Madras
Street, Oit.v, Sunday, Aug. 29, 6.30 p.m.—Address,
“Where I)o the Wicked Go?” Come, all are heartily
invited.— Advt.
I must confess it gives distress
To me, oh holy Joe,
To think that YOU should want to find
Out where the wicked go.
I cannot probe your motive, sir,
But really it looks bad,
To think that YOU should spend a “ bob ”
On such a funny ad.
Still, Joe, that is not MY affair ;
You’ve asked, and you shall know,
As well as I can tell you, where
The wicked people go.
They go to dances, sprucely clad,
And, o’er a polished floor,
They whirl each other round like mad,
Until their limbs are sore.
They go in motors, trams and drags
To watch the gee-gees race ;
And there they hack their fancy nags
Straight out, or for a place.
They go to gilded music halls —
A lure of gleaming lights,
And at these haunts they feast their eyes
On Plumpness clad in Tights.
They congregate around a ring'
Where knotty pugilists
Punch one another in the ribs
With large and bony fists.
Some to lewd football matches roam,
Some hockey matches view,
Some bathe together in the foam.
Some play at pak-a-pu.
Some loiter in the gilded bars,
By morning, night and noon ;
Some stroll together ’neath the stars,
And ’neath the stars they spoon.
And, last of all, this fact I know,
Through deep and learndd research,
That quite a heap of wicked go
On Sunday unto church.
MAORILAXD.
SINCLAIR S. CLARK.


BLOUSES
The French Glove House
has the Finest Variety of Blouses and
Shirtwaists in Sydney.
AS this is to be a “white” season, we have
bought largely in all white blouses, embroid-
ered and plain. They are well cut and smart,
at various prices to suit all purses. We quote one
line from the many—a blouse bound to please the
woman who dresses daintily and inexpensively.
We shall be pleased to mail particulars of other
lines on application.
Dainty White Muslin Blouse, the front composed
of alternate rows of Valenciennes and Embroidery
Insertion ed<red with tucks and insertion. Special
Price, 7/11 ; really worth 10/6.
Our new catalogue is ready—send a postcard and
we will mail one by return.
AXTENS & CO.,
P?rJKn”. n ), 24-30 The Strand, Sydney
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Low-Priced Links of Choice Design
NOW, here we show some really neat designs
in Cuff Links—strong, handsome, service-
able things. They’re made and finished
in the very best possible way. And then, as
regards price, they’re really exceptional value.
But you can jnd'sre for vomself :
This handsome solid 9ct.
Gold design, 17/6.
15c t., 25/-
Solid Oct. Gold, 12/0
ALL ORDERS
POST FREE.
Our Catalogue of Jewellery Values is Free.
Write for it to-day.
Hollingdale 8 Kessell,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
98 KINO BTREET SYDNEY.
This neat, design in solid
9et. Gold, 20/-
In loct. Gold, 307-
In Sterling' Silver, 5/.
These smart Links in 9et,
Gold. 25/-
In 15ct. Gold, 30/-
In 9cr. Gold, 21/- If>ct. Gold,
30/- Sterling- Silver, i/-
This neat Link in 9ct. Gold,
15/- 15ct. Gold, 25/-
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
EXCEEDING THE LIMIT.
GEORGIR: “ Oh, it wos great I Jonesy got inter
the ’bus an’ sot down beside the sweetest bit er
cuddle I ever seed. 'Goin’ far?’ ses c'
‘ You are , ’ ses she ; ‘ too dam. far I ’ an’ give
’im a wipe in the heyc.”
Peary, the Arctic explorer, doesn’t im-
prove on further acquaintance —further cable
acquaintance, that is. When he poured forth his
denunciation of Cook a year ago for trying to get
to the Pole ahead of him, his attitude suggested
the hard, grudging, inflated man who had come to
regard the Pole as his own private goods. His
fishfag attitude towards Cook on his return deep-
ened this impression. Now he hasn’t repaired
things by stating that when he reached the Pole
lie got there accompanied by only one Eskimo,
having left his companions behind “because he
wanted the honor for himself.” This ferocious
egotism, shown even in the case of his own
companions, again suggests that lie isn’t the
kind of man whose statements about his hated
rival, Koch the Jew, would be very reliable.
Moreover, it is hard to see any large or
special difference, in the matter of evidence,
between Cook’s arrival at the Pole with one
Eskimo and Peary’s arrival with one Eskimo.
Further, some authorities begin to remark that
the amazingly long stages which Peary says lie
made—he got there and back so rapidly that he
had to make long stages—are fairly astonishing.
On top of all a nigger servant or valet is reported to
be making trouble. Peary took his colored Sambo
along with him, but is said to have left him behind
with the rest when he made his final dash. Now
the cable says that Sambo claims to have been in
at the death, and to have “ personally assisted in
hoisting the Stars and Stripes at the Pole.” This
reads like a discrepancy, and it also suggests that
Sambo has a mistaken impression that the Pole is
a real stick, prop or mast, on which a flag can be
hoisted. If Sambo’s tale holds good, and it proves
that the Pole was really found with the aid of
cheap colored labor, the fact isn’t likely to help
Peary much.
One point that some people begin to notice is
that Peary went off on his final expedition with
amazingly-confident assurances that he would find
the Pole this time. He even made close calcula-
tions about the date on which he would find it
and the date of his return. He was the first
Arctic explorer who sledged to a time-table, and
his accuracy has excited remark. Polar explora-
tion is a curious beast. Inside the Arctic circle
in summer the sun goes round and round the
horizon. It doesn’t define the east by its rising or
the west by its setting, but just goes round and
horribly round. Even in an expedition consisting
of 10 sledges, 20 Eskimo, 12,000 dogs, one
nigger, an eminent and learned explorer, and
an unscientific white companion, the only
person who could give evidence of value would
be the eminent and learned explorer, for he would
have the instruments and take the observations.
The others would probably not know either the
distance or the direction of their travels, for not
only is the sun on strike so far as showing east
and west are concerned, but the compass goes mad
up there ; and the day’s journey, so far as the
non-scientific members of the party are concerned,
may be any number of miles, for the day is any
length you like—there being no night. Conse-
quently it may be 200 o’clock when you boil the
billy, or a quarter past 197. It is that habit of
having only one day and one night in the year
' which causes Jane, the Eskimo servant girl, to
give notice when she is required to get up before
the end of February in the morning. And it is
just because there are so many confused possi-
bilities about the case that one would like to know
where Peary’s nigger comes in. At present he
seems to be a disturbing element.
* * * *
The Victorian Commission of one, which is
poking an inquiring finger into Pentridge Prison,
is getting some varied circus information. Pretty
nearly anyone who is foolish enough to want to
get into the gaol can, it seems, do so unchallenged ;
he can skip over the wall at night, plant a
“swag” for his fnates, and stroll back again ; or
he can march boldly up in daylight, and, without
being searched, have himself shown over the in-
stitution, incidentally passing around tobacco,
letters and any other trifles that don’t happen to
be the size of elephants. As to the front door or
“main gate,” it seems to be mostly left to luck
and itself at night. The keys are inside, cer-
tainly-hung on a nail in the guard room—
where one warder keeps sentry. He has
numerous details to attend to, and when he
is rung up by telephone from other parts of
the prison it is sometimes a good while before he
can answer. One night the solitary sentry in
A division, where the exceptionally bad eggs
dwell, rang up the main gate sentry to say that a
prisoner was “playing up” in his cell. The
warder was locked in the division, as usual, but
the cell keys were outside, in the office ; so, as he
could get no reply from the sentry, he rang up
the chief warder, and was casually desired to
return to the cell and try to pacify the obstrepe-
rous prisoner by speaking to him softly through
the keyhole. It was 40 minutes before assistance
arrived, and by that time the prisoner was ex-
hausted, the furniture was matchwood, and
the rest of the division was in an up-
roar. As for getting out of their cells
and wandering round the gaol at large, several
times prisoners have been missed and finally dis-
covered perched on the inside wall, or above the
ceiling of the chief warder’s office, or in the loft
over the main gate, presumably waiting for dark-
ness to arrive. And in other respects things seem
to be very casual. One night the Governor
wandered into B division unbeknownst. The
place is wretchedly lighted and the warder on
duty promptly challenged the intruder. Getting
no answer, he challenged again. Being still
ignored, he raised his revolver and was about to
fire, when he recognised the Governor, who there-
upon irrelevantly asked what was the matter.
The sentry, was jn no humor for joking, and
coldly replied that there was very nearly being a
good deal the matter with the Governor.
• •* * ;
The Bulletin’s Religious Editor tried to
read his morning paper in a shaky tram the other
morning. With the swaying of the car, the print
danced liked an energetic serio, and made one
paragraph read this way :
ADVERTISING YASSBERRA.
The Hotel Yassberra has been a success, and though it has
only just been opened the Government isalready consider-
ing the question of extending the premises. Mr. Wade
states that, with a view of advertising the attractions of
Yassberra, the Government has arranged for Mr. Spencer,
of Sydney, to take a series of films. Steps will be taken to
have these films exhibited in Great Britain and America
for the purpose of bringing Yassberra under notice as a
tourist resort.
Then the car stopped, and a shocked authority on
the Old Testament discovered that Kosciusko
was the place that was to be advertised in Great
Britain and America, and flashed before the
world-tourist with the object of luring him to this
country. There was no mention whatever of
Yassberra; it was a cruel optical delusion born of
foggy spectacles and a wildly-leaping tram.
* * * »
The N.S.W. Prisoners’ Aid Association
issued itseighth annual report last week. This body
does a heap of good. Its main aim in life is to dash
at the felon as he (or she) emerges from captivity
and salve him (or her) not only in the spiritual
sense, but materially. Honest toil is found for
the party who has mostly got into trouble by seek-
ing to avoid any exercise which brings the bead of
probity to the brow. If he (or she) wants food the
same is offered; also lodgings, clothing, swags, tools
of trade and so forth. Since its inception seven
and a half years ago, the Association claims that
it has assisted 2010 prisoners, and that of these
only 232 have gone back to the chill shades of
quod. That is a fine record. The institution has
an imposing list of patrons, council members, and
committee and branch committee men and women.
They are mostly of the affluent class, and doubtless
all number an ex-prisoner or so amongst tlieir
staff of household domestics. Anyhow they
deserve a lot of credit, if only for trying to get
tjie wrongdoer, who has expiated his malfeasance,
a'job in the establishment of somebody else.
The Oldest Inhabitant drops a tear over
the cinders of a burnt puh :
An old Sydney landmark, out Rushcutter’s Bay way,
was burned down last week—the Belmore Hotel, at the
junction of Bayswater-road and Woolcott-street. In 1867
John Norton opened it as a hotel under the name of the
Belmore, and kept it for some years. It was a
very select neighborhood then. John Williams, the
Crown Solicitor, old-time partner of “ Bob ” Nicholls,
lived opposite; Justice Hargrave dwelt alongside; Rosslyn-
street had but two or three houses, and Rushcutter’s
Bay had not been filled in. A toll-bar stood beyond the
bridge, and the White Conduit Hotel was on the left. In
those days a customer at the Belmore was Robert Howard,
cab-owner, who subsequently became noted as “Nosey
Bob,” chief executioner. The Oldest Inhabitant lived in
the locality at that time. On moonlight nights the blacks
trooped in from La Perouse to call on Mr. Williams, who
took a deep interest in Black Brother, and always sent
him away with much food inside him.
The Governor (?ipps Inn, at West Mait-
lond (N.S.W.), which has been licensed since 1841,
when Gipps was the hired potentate of the land,
has been closed under the Local Option Vote, It
is the first hotel in West Maitland to perish under
the Act.
The Victorian old-age pension office lately
struck a coincidence which was so remarkable
that it said in its haste that one woman was
drawing two allowances, and that all men are
liars. Two papers came from one country town.
They came from the same street. The applicants
had the same Christian name and the same sur-
name. They came from the same part of Great
Britain, and came out in the same year, and they
were widows with six children apiece. Also they
had both pursued the cow industry in their
younger days, and, barring the fact that one was
allegedly 09 and the other 73,, there was no differ-
ence whatever. The department went down in
liaste to bowl out the fraud, and struck the biggest
marvel of all. Not only were they two separate
women, but they were such quiet, retiring old
women, and so little given to discussing their
neighbors’ affairs over the fence, that neither
knew of the other’s existence. Here the depart-
ment uttered a hollow sound and fainted.
DRAMA IN THE SUBURBS.
NED (the runaway cabin hoy): “ Oh , hind sir ,
don’t let me be taken back to the ship where
I am starved and beaten by yon burly ruffian ”
THE VILLAGE VAGABOND: “No, my poor little
lad. Before ’e ’arms a ’air of yer ’end ’e
must first deal with me.” ( Great applause.)
The N.S.W. Railway Department may not.
he able to guarantee to its suburban cus-
tomers a regular train service or a seat,
hut it can grapple with really serious prob-
lems. Lately Johnson converted a first-class
smoking carriage into a second-class non-
smoker. Johnson was too tired to do the
thing properly ; he merely pasted a paper legend
on the window. An unoffending citizen entered
the car and took out his pipe. An inspector
jumped at him and showed him the paper "Non-
smoking ”on the window. The passenger pointed
out the word “Smoking” on the door, hut im-
mediately obeyed the functionary and pocketed
his pipe. For this offence he was haled before a
city magistrate, who fined him one penny or a
minute, and refused to allow Costs.
Bitter language by “ Arabian ” :
The other day an agitated clerk dashed down from the
Vic. Tr asury and gasped out to the superintendent of
the detective office that a skilful sleuth was required at
once up at the State buildings. He was questioned, but
beyond declaring that it was not a murder he could give no
information. The Master himself volunteered for the job.
Some of the spiteful junior detectives declared to each
other that this great but modest man had in his mind’s eye
several columns of advertisement in the morning papers,
but of course that was just base envy. Speculation was
rife at the office during his absence regarding the
mysterious crime at the, Treasury. Was it. embezzle-
ment ’—then the Master would unravel it. When a city
firm reports to the Detective Office that there is & short-
age in the cash and that a cashier is absent from his
place, who is quicker than the Master to realise that, the
cashier may have taken the money ? When he returned,
all the Demons held their breath. He went into the
Superintendent’s room and closed the door. Treasurer
Watt.had lost his overcoat in a city feeding-shop, and
the great detective had now to give over his search for
Mr. Bauer’s murderer and find Mr. Watt’s coat. So far
neither the murderer nor the coat have been arrested.
Perhaps the murderer is wearing the coat. It is rumor* d
that Mr. Watt is thinking of getting another coat f >r
next winter.
* *
The patrons of a Melbourne city semi-
private bar were greatly interested in a gay inter-
mezzo one night recently. A tall
woman of about 30, possessing
what the police-court reporters
describe as “ a lady-like appear-
ance, ” but with a grey face and
a cruel eye, entered, and drawing
a short, serviceable club from
under her cloak, bounced the
thick end of the implement on the
head of the gentleman who was
fondling the hand of the pale-
gold barmaid. With a coolness
and precision almost devilish,
the tall person of lady-like
appearance followed up her ad-
vantage, and pounded her vic-
tim in the neck. The third blow
gave him a thick ear. The rest
were all body-blows, but they
were accurately placed and
effective. At this point the
pale-gold barmaid assailed the intruder with
fury, tearing off her hat. “ Here, you,” screamed
the motor power of the beer engine—“ you leave
’im alone, see. Get a man of your own to hit.”
The lady-like appearance was not disturbed.
“ That is all right, my good woman,” she said.
“Heis my husl and ! ” Then she turned to smite
the villain again, but he had fled through the
back door and the stance was ended.
BROKEN DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For forty days and forty nights
We’ve wallowed on the main ;
And drifted south and east and north,
And drifted back again.
’Mid empty seas and smokeless skies,
In ages gone and past,
Our bleaching ensign first was hung
Reversed upon the mast.
With weary eyes and stolid minds
We watch the rust streaks show,
And trailing weeds and barnacles
Upon the steel sides grow.
On fleshless feet the shrouded days
Like old maimed things go past,
Long bootless days of nothingness-,
And each day like the last.
And so the same red sun goes down
Into the same grey sea,
And in the east cold stars come up
Out of eternity.
x.s.w.
FRANH JESSUP.
MASKS AND FACES
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I MET her at a
fancy ball—
It was in Eighteen-
ninety-two —
The neatest figure of
them all,
Her mask showed
like a vicious
shrew.
I was a motley fool,
but she
Made quite another
fool of me.
Two hours I lingered
by her side.
I danced with her alone,
and swore
I loved her dearly. Oft I tried
To tear that scowling
front she wore.
At length my maid with winning
grace
Removed the mask, and showed her face,
Oh, she was very fair to view.
I asked if she would marry me.
That was in Eighteen-niney-two;
I’ve known since Eighteen-ninety-three
That when a glance I dared to ask
She moved her face, and showed the mask!
VICTORIA.
EDYSON.


A Cold Bath on a Hot Day.
A cold bath on a hot day is refreshing
Every pore of your body is more open ir
hot weather and requires more frequent
cleansing than in cold weather The pores
in hot weather absorb more freely than in
cold weather; it is therefore most unde-
sirable, after taking a morning bath, to
cover the body with underclothing that
has been washed with adulterated common
soap. For comfort, cleanliness and free-
dom from skin disease the clothing worn
next the skin should be washed with a
pure and well-made soap. If Sunlight
Soap be used in the laundry your pores
absorb purity.
“ We have spoken now of Major,
And of Minor, Plasterton ;
What’s the difference?” asked the teacher
Of the chemist’s bright-eyed son.
“ There’s no difference,” said the scholar,
“ For, from what I know I’m sure
Both the Major and the Minor
Swear by Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure !
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
PEAPES’ OWN MANUFACTURE
Ready-For-Service 2-Piece Suits.
Our illustration represents the general effect of our 2-piece
Suits as worn with belt, fancy shirt and Change Hat. We
confidently introduce these suits to vour notice, for they have
been tailored in our own workrooms and carry the latest innova-
tions in Style. The coat is unlined and has roll collar, shape-
retaining front, and can be worn with vest if desired. Plain
back or centre seam as desired ; trousers are cut loose above
knee, then fit snugly down to shoe. The patterns are
irreproachable, being all in the season’s striped flannel
patterns; and the suit makes most perfect lounge, holiday
and warm day wear for the city.
IN ALL SIZES, 2 51- THE SUIT.
Patterns sent if desired. Catalogues Free.
PEAPES h CO., LTD.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
4il_- r
A Sydney suburban mayor —Pratfcen, of
Ashfield-r-is calling a conference of bis brother
mayors in order to evolve a scheme of municipal
co-operation. Pratten’s theory is this : Petersham
has a garbage destructor, or wants one, for its late
lamented cat. So do Lewisham, Summer Hill,
Ashfield, Burwood and Strathfield. Why not
devise a scheme whereby one destructor can be
erected, and the various councils incinerate their
six cats therein? Also, with regard to lighting;
why not erect one electric light plant instead
of six, and light the whole of the Western
Suburbs.? Again the six suburbs have six
sets of rules and regulations, and the
passer-by doesn’t always know what set of rules
he has to obey. Often he has one foot in one
municipality and one in another, and he has to
obey both sets. So Pratten proposes uniform
regulations for the whole crowd. But though
Pratten can see all the advantages of having one
garbage-destructor instead of six, he can’t see the
advantage of having one mayor instead of six.
Yet when six mayors are bossing one garbage-
destructor, it seems altogether too much mayor.
Three members of the crew, of the British
ship Clan McGuinness happened into the Mel-
bourne Customs Court lately over a matter of
smuggled tobacco. They were braw Hielan’men,
ye ken, full of brose and parritch, and their
names were Habahulla, Arfanallee, and Endrazal-
lee. In the Clan McGuinness, too, by the sword
of the Bruce!
SOME STUDIES IN HATS.
“Schwartz”: The grand and imposing
statute of Liberty, erected in front of the Sydney
Telegraph office at Fleet time, is slowly breath-
ing its last in a paddock opposite the new station
at Bankstown. It stands in a miniature park,
■enclosed by a white fence. At each corner of the
■enclosure is one of the pillars also displayed during
TT.S. ironclad week, or at any rate the remains of
them. For one came to grief the last windy day,
and fragments of pillar strew the ground all
around. The whole show was bought by a land-
dealing firm for 4d. or thereabouts, presumably
in the hope that it would boom the sale of
suburban allotments. On the statue is a notice to
the effect that any person damaging the aforesaid
eyesore will be fined £5.
“J. : A fragment of evidence presented
to the Undertakers’ Board (N.S.W.) last week
He had known bodies to be kept from Wednesday to
Sunday to have a big' funeral
This insensate hankering for a big funeral—a
planting that shall do the cadaver really proud—is
one of the things that has been imported from the
Cold Land and would have been better left there.
Years ago I was asked to stay with some friends
near Chelmsford in Essex, and decided to drive to
their house. I was living at the time in London.
It was a Saturday, which I take it is the day the
East End does its interring. When I struck the
Mile End-road an amazing sight met my gaze.
Fo v as far as the eye could reach there stretched
a slowly-moving line of hearses and their attendant
mourning coaches. The wide hideous street was
transformed. It seemed as though the largest
black and white caterpillar on e,‘lfth had taken
possession of the whole of the left-hand side of the
thoroughfare.' The hearses were nearly all drawn
by four-in-hand teams with bearing reins (and
resultant arched necks), long curling manes and
preposterous false tails. Over the head, of each
horse nodded an immense feathery plume. Some-
times the latter was black, more often white.
About as sad a spectacle as it is possible to con-
ceive was the occasional “poor” funeral wedged
among the aggressively affluent ones. The rela-
tions of the corpse that was going to its last cheap
home were obviously ashamed of themselves.
I hey sat back and wept unobtrusively, and took
no pleasure in the proceedings. Not so those who
inhabited the more gorgeous vehicles. It was one
of the rare times of their lives, and they showed it
quite frankly. A host of social reformers has
denounced the Londoner’s insane passion for
spending large sums of money on the planting of
his dead relatives. Generally, the poorer the de-
ceased was in life, and the harder up the depend-
ants whom he left behind, the more flam-
boyant the interment. T|ut this British idea of
saving up the deceased—who bears no interest
during the interval—for a Sunday funeral sounds
gruesome in the Australian climate.
It has transpired, that the Victorian State
Commissioner of Pensions refused the old-age
pension to a very old woman last year because
during the ‘precious year her ancient and infirm
husband had earned £GO. Now, even the oldest
woman can’t live very well in September, 1908, on
the 225. 6d. it week her husband was earning in
March, 1907. Also the fact that a man earned
£6O last year doesn’t prove that he can earn £6O
this year; if it did, then nobody would grow old.
The Victorian theory was that it required not
only old age but one year’s complete starvation
to qualify for a pension. The Federal authorities
found this poor old dame getting through her
ninth month of hunger, and gave her a helping
hand.
Some of the boss Chows of San Francisco’s
“ Chinatown ” have carried the war into the
enemy’s camp by petitioning the city authorities
to put a stop to the Christian
practice of forming parties to go
round and shudder at the heathen
in his viciousness. It is alleged
that professional guides to China-
town maintain opium dens and
pay Ah Sin to smoke the drug for
the attraction of visitors. This
seems a sufficiently feasible Story
until one remembers that there
are dens enough in the Common-
wealth where Ah Sin smokes
opium without any encouragement
from guides. The Sins of the
Chow quarter in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and elsewhere are not sub-
sidised, for there Kre no guides
hereabouts who live by revealing
the drowsy Mongolian in his lair to
parties of Clistian sightseers.
Under present conditions the Yel-
low Peril is a matter of coinmon-
knowledge in San Francisco. If the invasion of
Chung Lung’s seclusion were prohibited, the hor-
rors of the opium den would escape a lot of ob-
servation—that’s all.
“ D.” on a recent excitement:—
The case of Gross v. the Glaciarium (Sydney), taken in
conjunction with tile Oook-Pear.v trouble and similar
happenings, suggests the query : Is there anything in the
atmosphere that surrounds ice to cause hatred to burn
hotly? Gross was an enthusiastic skater, and in his
bosom rankled (according to the defence) a loathing of
and a contempt for Dunbar Poole, manager of the rink.
Gross yearned (according to the defence) for the day
whereon he might be privileged to “ show up” Poole. Ail
unexpectedly the golden opportunity came. A lady mis-
laid a bangle on the frozen surface, and Gross or a friend
of his found it. Wild scenes followed. The story, as
told in the daily press, is irrelevant and vague
in spots, hut highly thrilling. Said Poole to
Gross: “Is it you who have found a bangle?”
Gross parried neatly with: “What’s that got to
do with you!” Also he inquired heatedly, “Who is
Mrs. Wallace? I want Mrs. Wallace.” And further,
“ Who is Mrs. Wallace ? Find me Mrs. Wallace ! ” Poole
met these heart-cries with the news that Mrs. Wallace
was one who hankered for a bangle. Whereat Gross
laughed a laugh of bitterness not unmingled with scorn,
and folded his arms and said to his fellow-skaters : “ Ah,
Mr. Dunbar Poole, manager! Let me introduce you
to Mr. Dunbar Poole.” Then Dunbar Poole skated
madly about looking for counsel’s opinion. Said
Gross in light and debonair fashion, observant of
Poole’s movements: “Send for the police; send
for the detectives; send for the whole police-
force. Dunbar Poole, you’re a d—d fool.” The
assailed manager paused but to say : “ I have not asked
for your opinion,” and then resumed his search. About
here Mr. Wallace, an inoffensive timber-merchant, drifted
on the scene. Of him Gross inquired : “ Are you a friend of
Pooh-Bah Dunbar Poole? If so, I have no time for you.”
Later, Wallace was shocked and infuriated to find himself
being contemptuously laughed at by Gross. He expressed
a desire to punch Gross on the nose. Gross advanced,
presumably with the object of being punched, and Wal-
lace threatened to give him in charge. Amid a scene of
excitement and joyous abandon and so on hitherto un-
paralleled in skating circles, Gross was arrested and haled
protesting to a police station. He sued last week, with
the object of forcing the company of the detested Poole
to pay him damages for having “assaulted and beaten
him, and having caused him to be imprisoned and given
into the custody of the police.” Further he demanded a
monetary salve because Poole had him turned out of the
Glaciarium and refused him re-admittance. The jury found
for defendant on all counts; and now, doubtless, the
enraged Gross disapproves of Poole more stronglv than
ever,, and cherishes a side line in the way of disapproval
of the intellect of juries. An extraordinary feature
of this affair is that Gross does all his battling at a
weight of about eight stone—indicating the enormous
reserve force of energy that lurks betimes in a small
compass.
THE VOICE OF ANGER.
BYSTANDER (cheerfully): "Hullo, trying to mend her?"
MOTORIST (bitterly): "Oh, no! Only hiding from my tailor."
“The Heathen”: Sydney’s new Arch-
bishop, who is to be imported in November, is
now engaged in saying farewell to his English
parishioners and his English job. He appears to
have a remarkable gift for weeping by cable and
being abject in print; and he says solemnly, in
broken accents, that he never “ contemplated
the possibility of being hauled out of his arch-
deaconry and having a large salary forced upon
him. He furthermore hints that his friends had
to talk with him for long hours before he would
accept the wail from these parts. One of his
remarks almost makes the Sydney church
authorities appear as heartless persons who are
bent on dragging a tame archdeacon up by the
roots and transplanting him forcibly :
I was exceedingly happy in mv work in this parish, in
the cathedral, and in this huge archdeaconry. Friends
seemed to have been gathering round me on every hand.
But when this message came to me by cable, on May 2S,
all those whose judgment I am bound to respect said to
me, with almost one consent, that I should need to find
very good cause for refusing an offer to a post so im-
portant and responsible.
However, a, paragraph or two later, he dries his
tears and gives th&riame of the ship and the exact
date of sailing. It reads very nobly and sounds like
the case of a good but -tearful mart going bravely
forth—until you discover this in the next column.
It i,s an extract from a discussion in the Adelaide
Synod on the dreary, down-at-heels subject of the
poor parson’s stipend :
Rev. W. H. Winter said the stipends at present paid in
country parishes were miserably inadequate, and it was
utterly impossible for a clergyman to live in the country
unless he had a free house and £250 a year. Such a
pastor had to travel a great deal and give subscriptions of
various kinds. Country clergymen’s wives were true
heroines, for they had to make many sacrifices. He had
asked some of his parishioners why they did not, advise
their sons to go into the Church, and the reply had been
that the sons would not be paid enough to permit of
their living properly.
The Anglican Church has lately been making
special efforts to gather the working man into the
fold and make a real brother of hint ; and it has
recoiled grief-stricken and said some hard things
when the working man refused to fall on its neck
or to let his thrippence fall into the plate. The
Worker seems to have very good cause for dis-
trusting an institution which not only ignores its
own men when a high post falls vacant, but also
neglects to pay its own men a living wage.
“ Moana ” : An interesting article, entitled
“Sweated Angels" (B. 19/8/09), asks “How
ensure an eight-hour day for nurses?” and men-
tions that the thing is managed in some of the
Yankee States. It is ; and it is done much nearer
home too. In the Christchurch (M.L.) Public
Hospital, the finest institution of its class in
Maoriland, the nurses work only eight hours per
day. _ The duty is arranged in three shifts —
morning, afternoon and night—and a nurse’s hours
are changed every month. The shifts are from
C a.m. to 2 p.m.. from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m., and from
10 p.m. to 6 a.m. One month a nurse will be
“on ” in the morning and the next in the after-
noon. Sometimes, in cases of emergency—as
when two or three nurses have been struck down
with fever—lo hours have been worked, and in
exceptional circumstances even 12; but these are
mere accidents.
HISTORY ACHIEVES A NEW LANDMARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The historic Dreadnought movement.— lid. D.T., 11/91'O!).
There are happenings historic
Which provoke the world to ehoric
Odes, and other loud expressions of delight;
Thus the English Reformation
Stirs to uncontrolled elation
Those who reckon Rome a Menace and a Blight.
Lovers of the Constitution,
Those who hold that the solution
Of Great Britain’s strength is Freedom, and who thirst
To see legal evils righted,
Are perennially delighted
When they brood on what occurred to Charles the First.
Others get their inspiration
From an earnest contemplation
Of the histories of battles. They will pore
With the most absorbed attention
Over any old dissension
That has reference to skirmishes and gore.
But your Sydney morning paper
Burns its modest votive taper
At a diff’rent idol’s feet. Its constant theme
’S that the Hall of Fame is lacking,
In completeness, without backing
In the shape of Allen Taylor’s Dreadnought scheme.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
HALLEY’S COMET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Elaborate calculations which have been made by Messrs.
Cowell and Orornmelin, two distinguished members of the
lio.val Astronomical Society, indicate that the celestial
body known as Halley’s comet, which travels round the
sun in an orbit that takes about 75 years to accomplish,
will re-appear early in 1910 as an evening star.— Daily
paper.
London, Tuesday.—Professor Wolf, of the Koenigstuhl
Observatory, Heidelberg, announces that Halley’s comet
was discovered there early on Sunday morning.— Cable.
In 11 b.c.
They agree
It was blazing on high
In the clear b.c. sky
When the turn of Agrippa had come. That was why
The Old Romans remarked,
Like a classical play,
That the gods were all “ narked.”
(’Twas their habit to sav
These ridiculous things in an off-handed way
When a comet appeared
In 11 b.c.)
How the deuce could they know in 11 B.c.
When there wasn’t a Herald or Sydney D.T. ?
In a.d. 60,
When the bricks
Of Jerusalem fell,
As the histories tell,
By the orders of Titus—an old Roman swell,
It was once more on hand
In the shape of a sword ;
On the scarified land
All the fugitive horde
Shrank in fear at the fiery sign as it poured
On the desert its light,
In a.d. 66.
(How on earth could they know in a.d. 66
That it wasn’t a sign for the falling of bricks?)
Interval of 1844 years for refreshment.
In Nineteen-and-Ten,
Once again
He will look at our clod
In the Garden of God
For a while, then once more on his orbit he’ll plod
And we’ll bid him good-bye
As he fades night by night;
For, Dear Friend, you and I
Ere he does his round flight
Will be taking our rest safely hid from the sight
Of all comets and stars.
Or perhaps—who can say?—
Both our spirits may be on his hurricane deck,
And we’ll gaze—at the imminent risk of each neck—
At the old Earth below
And remark softly, “So
1 hat’s the Earth !. . . Well we’re blest !
(Which, of course, we both will be and taking our rest.)
N.S.W.
KODAK.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” CAS ENCINE and PLANT
Roval Agricultural Society’s trials in Eng-land. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“ NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
a Winding' Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Kock Drill, a Concentrating
Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron & Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
machinery. Addresses
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street, BALLARAT;
and Pall Mall, BENDIGO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralian Goldfields Water Supply
Interest
and
Working Writ- Sinking Deficit
Ex- ten Fund for
June, Revenue, penses. Off. Required. Year.
1904 .. ? ? £155,911 £101,911
1905 .. £141,067 £42,835 179,032 80,800
1906 .. 159,425 44,550 £ll,OOO 181,717 77,842
1907 .. 167,146 53.92 S 11,000 186,789 84,571
1908 .. 172,550 63,882 11,000 188,565 90,897
1909 .. 183,200 62,205 11,000 191,239 81,244
This has been a disgraceful business altogether. Bigjohn
Forrest was in power in the West when it was decided
that the State should carry out this costly 7 undertaking ;
and it will alw'ays stand to his credit that he tried to put
the thing on an honest basis. A gold mine, he knew 7,
couldn’t last for ever. There was a time when people
used to work such properties in a leisurely way ; nowa-
days, how-ever, he knew 7 that the idea is to rip out the
gold as fast as possible, because it isn’t earning interest
while it is lying in the ground. And as this water scheme
w 7 as almost exclusively 7 for the use of a gold-mining
community 7, he decided that the loans must have
a sinking fund of 3 per cent. It was high, but
under the circumstances it wasn’t a fraction too much.
As soon, however, as they got the water, the big mining
cos. and other interested people began to squeeze the
Government, and the Government allowed itself to be
squeezed ; so, though the biggest users were phenom-
enally 7 successful, rates w 7 ere cut down so low that during
the past six years, covering practically the whole life of
the business, not one penny has been provided by the
scheme towards a sinking fund ; but, on the contrary, the
rich mineowners and others have loafed on the State for
£15,111 of interest and working expenses. It is shame-
ful ; and more shameful still because the State
Government which has allowed this confidence
trick to be worked has consistently blackguarded the
Commonwealth for its extravagance, and has cast the
hlame for the State’s deficits upon Australia’s shoulders.
In the early stages, the accounts were most im-
perfectly presented, and for the first year the figures
available are very scanty. Recently, however, no com-
plaint at all can be made on that score. But, though
the accounts are very well presented, some of the methods
are absurd. For instance, the liability for the principal
loans has never been transferred to the Board which con-
trols the scheme, and the Board doesn’t know exactly
what the interest and sinking fund amount to. But
while the principal debt has not been transferred,
the Board has accepted direct responsibility for
what is known as the supplementary capital—money
raised on debentures by the Board itself and spent on
extension works, etc. In the table on top of this both
lots of interest and both lots of sinking fund are, of
course, added together; and the deficit shown is the
amount by 7 which the scheme has failed to provide work-
ing expenses, interest and statutory sinking fund. In
the next table the interest and sinking fund are separated :
Sinking
June, Interest. Fund. Total.
1904 .. £83,952 £71,959 £155,911
1905 .. 94,792 84,240 179,032
1906 .. 96,565 85,152 181,717
1907 .. 100,272 86,517 186,789
1908 .. 102,123 86,442 188,565
1909 .. 103,395 87,844 191,239 .
The sinking fund contributions in these six years should
thus have been £502,154 ; but as a matter of fact the
total deficit during that period was £517,265, so that, as
explained above, no sinking fund at all has been provided
by 7 the scheme.
Then who has provided it? Well, partly the
general taxpayer; and partly the money has been bor-
rowed. If r,he general taxpayer had been foolish enough
to subsidise the wealthy and mostly-foreign mine-owners,
it would have been their own funeral; still nothing much
more could be said about it. But as the State has never once
in the past six years made its revenue equal its expendi-
ture, or its expenditure equal its revenue—including the
sinking fund as expenditure—it follows that what it really
has done has been to borrow money in order to
provide part of the sinking fund; and there
isn’t much honesty 7 about that. For six years this
has been going on ; and it was not until
about a month ago that the State Government decided
that the water-rates must go up. What are ranked as
high-grade mines will pay 7s. 3d. instead of ss. per 1000
gallons, and that may add perhaps £35,000 to the revenue,
or less than half enough to make good the deficit. Prac-
tically there has been no commotion about it; the
increase has been accepted as a matter of course —
clearly enough indicating that all along the big users
knew that the State was making a fool of itself and
charging less than its customers were prepared to pay.
* * * »
The Electric Light Department of the
Melbourne City Council :
Paid Contri- Writ- To
Gross as In- bution ten Re- Re-
Feb., Profit, terest. to City 7. Off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £11,786 £5,179 £6,607 £28,939
1902 .. 10,566 17,866 21,639
1903 .. 23,568 11,791 11,777 33,416
1904 .. 30,877 12,750 18,127 51,543
1905 .. 36,636 13,395 £lOOO £12,608 22,241 61,176
1906 .. 40,986 13,456 1000 5,650 26,530 82,056
1907 .. 48,722 14,386 1500 5,039 27,797 109,853
1908 .. 53,761 16,144 3000 62,079 82,391
1909 .. 57,323 16,343 5000 5,532 30,448 112,839
The reserves, however, include the Depreciation Fund ;
and as all or part of that is a provision for wear and tear
which has actually taken place, it isn’t a true reserve ;
and to the extent of that depreciation, profits are not
real profits either. For instance, for the past y 7 ear
£21,683 is transferred to the Depreciation Fund ; and if
that, which is equal to just about 5 per cent, on the
total capital cost, is the amount by 7 which the plant has
been depreciated by the y ear’s work, then the true profits
are £35,640 instead of £57,323.
Looking at the reserves first, they are at pre-
sent made up as follows :
1903. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Sinking Fund .. .. £40,955 £50,720 £57,092 £63,982
For Renewals, etc. .. 59,002 25,240 48,778
P. and L. balance, Dr. 7,569
„ „ , Cr. 131 59 79
£33,416 £109,853 £82,391 £112,839
The sinking fund contribution is 1 per cent, per annum
on the total net capital expenditure; it is invested, not
in the works, but, as a sinking fund should be, in outside
securities, chiefly Metrop. Board of Works and Me)b.
Savings Bank debentures; and the interest accretions
are added to the fund, as they should be too. The De-
preciation Reserve, possibly 7 because it is liable to be
drawn upon to pay for renewals, is maintained largely in
bank deposits. So far as accretions are concerned, this
fund is, however, treated in the same proper way. The
gross profit mentibned above includes the year’s interest
earnings. The following shows how the total amount of
profit for the past three years has been made up
1907. 1908. 1909.
Balance, working account .. £45,529 £49,599 £52,458
Sinking fund interest .. •• 1>717 L 971 "’nta
Renewals fund interest .. .. 1,446 -,046 999
Profit on sales of plant, deben-
tures, etc 30 145 1,625
Total profit .. ..£48,722 £53,,61 £57,323
But it must be pointed out once more that that profit in
each case takes no account of current depreciation.
What is being done with the money will be
seen from the next comparison :
1907. 1908. 1909.
Interest and charges on debt.. £14,386 £16,144 £16,343
Sinking fund, 1 per cent. .. 4,400 4,400 4,649
Depreciation and renewals,
2 percent... .. .. 8,303 ) 56>812 929
Ditto, special appropriation.. 12,000 J
Change-over costs written off 4,339 4,326 3,600
Aid to city revenue .. .. 1,500 3,000 5,000
Written off loan discounts, etc. 700 941 _
Balance for reserves .. .. 3,094 '-0,1. )9
Totals .. ..£48,722 £85,623 £57,323
Taken from reserves .. .. 31,862
Profit .. ..£48,722 £53,761 £57,323
The sinking fund contribution in the second line is the
annual vote, apart from the fund’s own earnings ; the
latter are included in the balance available for reserves.
Costs incurred in changing over installations from one
electrical system to another, law costs, loan flotation and
discounts, and purchase of undertakings have run to
£92,658; purchase of undertakings alone cost £51,030.
These are all goodwill or paper items, and ought to be
written off. As shown above, something is being done in
that wa.v ; but the progress is not rapid, and nothing at
all was done last year in wiping out the biggest item
purchase of undertakings. The total debt not represented
by assets is still £70,142. Under those circumstances it
is doubtful whether the business ought to be drained
to the increased extent of £5OOO for the benefit of the
City Fund—which is to say, in reduction of ordinary rates
on property 7 . Though concerns like this are not intended
primarily to make profits, there is no reason in the world
why they should not make some ; but before that profit
is turned aside and used for general purposes, the concern
itself ought first to be put upon a solid foundation ; and
“ water ” to the extent of £70,142 isn’t a solid foundation.
In other respects the management of this fine municipal
enterprise appears to be admirably prudent.
• As to the success of the business, consider the
growth of the revenue :
Works’ Capital
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit. Outlay.
1901 .. £35,727 £24,462 £11,265 £204,051
1903 .. 64,008 41,352 22,656 324,979
1906 .. 72,214 33,628 38,586 380,565
1907 .. 81,190 35,660 45,529 420,236
1908 .. 92,365 42,766 49,599 510,843
1909 .. 102,635 50,177 52,458 556,248
In 1901 the expenditure for wages, coal, salaries, repairs
and maintenance, but not for plant renewals, totalled
6S - 5 per cent, of the revenue ; last year it was only 48'9
per cent. This partly explains why one big undertaking
can generally give a cheaper service than a dozen little
ones, though unless the one big undertaking is under the
public’s own control the saving is liable to get into the
owners’ pockets instead of the public’s.
• » •* *
The Farmers’ Co-operative Association of
Canterbury (M.L.)
Unex-
plained
Addi-
Writ- tions
Visible ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves, serves.
May, £ £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 16.459 10 p.c. = 5674 7,164 260 30,364
1901 .14,169 9| „ „ 5799 6,207 258 843 33,112
1902.. 8,091 9 ~ ~5859 5,188 1535 777 29,398
1903.. 16.632 91- ~ ~6185 7,240 466 250 32,389
1904.. 13,747 9 „ ~5868 6,788 1548 31,932
July,
1905.. 22.539 8£ „ ~6560 11,039 590 93 36,375
1906.22,035 10 „ ~6606 10,148 949 113 40,820
1907.. 27.031 10 ~ ~7126 11,867 621 1,299 49,536
1908.. 9 ~ ~9250 11,825 1364 11,297 65,153
New share premiums, £233 .. .. .. 65,386
1909.. 32.5921 9 P ‘ord.' = ? ? 1863 ~~ ?
And that’s the best that can be done with the year’s
accounts ! New capital has been got in during the year ;
but it isn’t mentioned whether the new capital carries
the dividend for one month, or six, or 12. Further, the
other appropriations include a 4 per cent, bonus on share-
holders’purchases, net items excepted, along with a 30
per cent, refund of “ sundry commissions,” and the total
of these items isn’t even hinted at. It is a most unsatis-
factory way of doing things. It leaves one in doubt
whether the appropriations are absurdly or only moder-
ately excessive. Apparently they don’t actually
exceed in the aggregate the profits of the year,
because, while there w r as only 7 a profit and loss
balance of £4586 brought forw'ard, £5333 is
now appropriated for reserves; this includes £333 written
off goodwill items, which are not reckoned in the fore-
going as assets. These goodwill items were originally
£l79l,but are now written down to £llOO. Even for the
previous year it is still not possible to adjust the figures
accurately, because the amount of the dividend and the
amount of the bonuses are lumped together. It can be
safely said that, on the whole, the form of Maoriland
companies’accounts is by 7 far the worst in Australasia;
and where there is a slipshod method of presenting the
accounts there is generally slipshod finance.
There are, however, a few things in connec-
tion with thisco. which can be said definitely ; and some
of them are contained in this comparison
1901. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Capital .. .. £60,988 £71,263 £113,389 £221,102
Deposits .. 74,199 98,529 173,250 196,171
Overdraft .. Nil Nil 32,460 Nil
Other liabilities 81,611 111,879 113,102 111,972
Advances .. 99,523 90,414 157,449 219,504
Stock .. .. 81,066 134,976 176,165 157,394
Freeholds, etc.. 33,824 42,217 72,618 76,767
Book debts .. 30,853 55,824 91.632 99,069
Cash .. .. 11,947 18,514 Nil 56,723
There are a few minor items on the assets side—furni-
ture, plant, etc. The business has grown rapidly ; but,
other things being equal, the risks are not greater
in proportion to the capital than they were eight years
ago. The reserves have not, however, been strengthened ;
in 1901, in fact, there were £33,112 of reserves to protect
£60,988 of capital, and now there are probably about
£66,000 of reserves to protect £221,102 of capital. Under
those circumstances the dividend should not have been
jumped up as it has beer). Probably this co.’s directors
won’t admit that a serious slump in Maoriland property
is almost inevitable ; but they might, at any rate, allow
that there is a strong expert opinion that way, and in
that case prudence would have pointed to the need to sit
hard upon dividends and so strengthen the reserves.
The Commonwealth Insurance Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Bonus to Added
Policy- to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. holders, serves, serves
1904 ..£3683 8 p.c. = £ll2O £416 £2147 £1647
1905 .. 2182 6 „ „ 1177 360 645 2292
1906 .. 2048 6 ~ „ 1186 415 447 2739
1907 .. 1529 5 „ „ 988 541 3280
1908 .. 1818 6 ~ „ 1186 632 3912
1909 .. 1324 6 ~ „ 1186 138 4050
There is no special reserve against the unearned portion
of premiums received ; therefore the reserves shown
above are not all true'reserves. The co. is not jumping-
ahead very fast; still it is making some progress, though
the amount of its net premiums was a good deal less in
the past year than in the year before. Its history so far
with regard to losses and expenses has been as follows :
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1904 .. £8,813 £3758 £1905 42‘6 p.c. 21‘6 p.c.
1905 .. 7,590 4207 1944 55 i „ 25'6 ~
1906 .. 8,359 4712 2376 56'3 „ 28'4 „
1907 .. 10,071 6649 2654 66'0 ~ 25'3 „
190 S . 11,370 7382 2890 64'9 ~ 25‘4 „
1909 .. 9,148 • 6170 2453 67'4 ~ 26'8 „
Judging by these figures, showing a generally high loss
rate and a moderately low expense rate, it seems likely
that a good deal of the co.’s business is marine under-
writing ; and, on the whole, the general experience in
that line during the last few years has been worse than the
average. Whoever embarks his capital in a new insurance
undertaking necessarily takes a good deal of risk ; for
the proportion of infant deaths among such cos. is large
—and when they don’t die a good many of them pass over
to some older and stronger concern in order to save their
lives. At the end of six years this co. is, however, en-
titled to believe that it has a very good chance of living ;
for it has kept its capital intact and has also put by an
amount equal to about 20 per cent, of that capital for the
greater security alike of insurers and shareholders.
* * * *
The Melbourne Permanent Building Society :
Business Loss on Total Dividends Re-
July, Profit. Property. Loss. (2J p.c.). serve.
1899 .. £1913 £7122 £5209 £5,033
Profit.
1900 .. 2614 603 2011 7,044
Profit.
1901 .. 3423 841 4264 11,308
Loss.
1902 .. 4733 10 4723 16,031
1903 .. 4460 485 3975 20,006
Capital written down from £177,164 to
£70,866 ; £257 being added to Reserves .. 20,263
1904 .. 4012 4012 24,275
1905 .. 2617 2617 £1741 25,151
1906 .. 2874 2874 1737 26,288
(3 p.c.)
1907 .. 3244 3244 2087 27,445
Profit. (4 p.c.)
190 S .. 4012 1172 5184 2786 29,843
(5 p.c.)
1909 .. 4481 810 5291 3487 31,647
The wreck of the land boom left the usual mess. In 1893
deposits and debentures totalled £435,536. At first, it
was arranged to pay these off in seven years, allowing
locked-up deposits 6 per cent, and debentures 5 per cent.
Of course, when people got their senses, they saw that
that was impossible; and the debentures, instead of
carrying 5 per cent., had for a time to take 2£. Much of
the debt was got rid of by swapping it for property in
hand; in 1899, for instance, debentures representing
£12,940 were exchanged for properties standing in the
books at £17,235. From these latter figures it was plain
that a good deal of writing-down still remained to be
done; and in 1903 the job was tackled! The
properties in hand, it was found, needed writing-
down about 6s. Bd. in the £ ; and to do that the capital
was reduced from £177,164 to £70,866, including invest-
ing share capital. Things in Melbourne were slack when
this valuation was made, and subsequent sales showed
a surplus over the written-down values. For a while this
surplus was used to further write down the properties
remaining in hand ; but in 1908 it was decided that
enough had been done in that way. The accounts do
not show the transactions ; but these figures are compiled
from the directors’ reports :
Total Profit on Properties
Sales. Sales. in Hand.
1906 .. £18,258 £1544 £218,837
1907 .. 21,061 1916 201,485
1908 .. 33,640 1173 173,169
1909 .. 34,260 810 142,238
As sales have been made the old liabilities have been got
rid of, and new business has been taken ; but it looks
as though some of the properties have fallen back again
into the society’s hands. In 1893, as shown above,
deposits and debentures stood at £435,536 ; since the 1904
cleaning up the progress has been :
Old (Debenture) New
Debt. Deposits, etc. Advances.
1904 .. £175,577 £1,608 £31,325
1909 .. 126,160 17,928 100,972
The property on hand stands at £142,239 ; and only
£15,179 of this is vacant land. Still even from the house
property the net return is not large ; on the average held
last year it was just under 3| per cent., and that cer-
tainly isn’t enough to make the society want to hang on
to it. It even suggests that the writing-down has been
none too severe, and that except under very good con-
ditions a loss on sales would show up instead of a profit.
A very large increase is shown under the heading of
advances ; but it seems highly probable that a great deal
of that springs from the sale of properties, and to that
extent can hardly he called new business ; so that the big
increase is not so important as it otherwise would be, and
can’t be taken to mean that the office has re-established
such a large and valuable building-society connection as
the figures would imply under ordinary circumstances.
» .C! * » •
B. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).—This
is one of the numerous industrial cos. whose stock has
recently been listed by the Sydney Exchange. The trade
is in furniture, mostly—or at any rate largely—on time-
payment. Only one balance-sheet and profit and loss
account are available; this is for the half-year to June
30. The capital is £50,000, of which £7143 has been paid
during the past term ; but leaseholds, fittings and good-
will are lumped, so that it is not possible to tell how
much of this £50,000 is represented merely by paper. It
may be an excellent investment; but before the public
goes in it ought to know what goodwill stands for —that
is, how much of the capital isn’t represented by assets.
The half-year’s profit was £4465 ; a 10 per cent. div.
absorbs £2322. Reserves will then amount to £8584.
Liabilities are not larger—only £7691. All assets
are lumped into two items —leasehold, stock, fittings and
goodwill, £27,206 ; and book debts, £41,391. Provision
is made for bad debts ; also, some provision of unknown
size is made for contingencies in connection with un-
completed purchases. But it does not transpire that
anything is written off the value of leaseholds, which are
clearly' a wasting security. Book debts are very heavy ;
yet, tnough there is necessarily' some risk in the item,
the T.P. business is nowadays so organised that
the actual losses are comparatively small. Alto-
gether, this is not the sort of investment that
one can tell much about from the published accounts.
Very much depends on the management. Much depends
also on the sort of time the city is having. If seasons
and prices are good, employment plentiful and wages
fair, this kind of business booms. Under contrary con-
ditions, the time-payment furniture vans are liable to be
kept just about as busy taking goods back from the pur-
chasers’ houses to the shop as in carting them out from
the shop to new customers.
Generally speaking, and not referring to
Gordon and Co., Ltd., in particular, the matter of good-
will calls for more attention than it is getting from
investors. Profits may be very large—so large, that for a
while a concern may be able to pay a tall dividend on a
capital which is more than half paper, or goodwill. But
the size of the profit attracts opposition. The opposition
concern arrives and puts, say, £5OOO into the business.
Then it means this; While the old concern has_ to
struggle to earn interest on £lO,OOO, of which £5OOO
is represented by nothing at all, the new concern,
with an equal amount of stock, plant, etc., has only
to earn interest on £5OOO. Consequently the new
concern can offer better value for the public’s money.
The old concern struggles to keep its trade ; but its
struggle costs money, and that reduces its profit. In
other words, when a business hasn’t been granted a
monopoly', the fact that it shows a big dividend on paper
capital as well as real capital will invariably attract oppo-
sition from people who are quite content to get a big or
even a moderate dividend on only their real capital.
Further, if the profits are very gaudy, the competition is
pretty often overdone, and the profits even on the real capi-
tal comedown to vanishing point. In that case a concern
hasn’t merely to meet fair competition ; it has also to meet
the competition of people who are actually 7 losing money 7
on the business—first their own, and then their creditors’
money. In the end things mostly right themselves ; but
it isn’t always the concern handicapped by the big good-
will item that pulls through—often, in fact, that concern
disappears, and the others pull through. It is a fatal
mistake, then, to assume that goodwill is worth a large
sum because the profits in a business —and especially a
new business —are large. If a co. must start with a good-
will item, it ought therefore to be written down at full
speed ; that is to say, hard cash or similar assets, saved
or bought with profits, should replace the intangible
paper “assets.” JBut if the co. won’t do that, then the
only thing the investor can do is, if he gets 10 per cent.,
to regard only 5 per cent, as dividend, and apply the
other 5 per cent, to write down the value of his own
investment in case of accident.
The Queensland Civil Service Co-operative
Co. (Brisbane): —
Writ-
Dividends Purchasers’ ten De-
Loss. and Duty. Bonus. off. serves
£££ £ *
June, 1903 636 2£ p.c. = 58
Profits.
Dec., 1903 594 5 „ „ 163 145 <59
June, 1904 567 5 p.c. = 134 5 „ „I'4 50 968
Dec., 1904 729 5 „ „ 140 6J „ „ 282 63 1212
July, 1905 817 4 „ „ 139 7 „ ~ 127 46 1417
Jan'., 1906 954 4 „ ~ 127 7 „ „ 493 45 DO6
July, 1906 775 4 ~ ~ 129 7 „ „ 533 45 I<<4
Premiums on shares, £6 .. ••
Jan., 1907 906 4 p.c. = 133 7 p.c. = 590 44 1919
Premiums on shares, £3 .. •• iW--
July, 1907 1216 4 p.c. = 159 7 p.c. = 577 347 2055
Jan., 1908 1165 5 ~ „ 165 7 ~ ~ 700 97 2258
Julv, 1908 936 5 „ „ 164 7£ „ „ 688 42 2300
Jan., 1909 884 5 ~ ~ 164 61 ~ ~ 654 41 2325
July, 1909 1233 5 ~ ~ 163 6| „ ~ 633 110 2652
This is the 71st half-yearly report, so the society was
among the pioneer co-operative concerns of Australia.
The early co-operators were, however, philanthropists
first and business men afterwards—a long way after-
wards—and the results were generally poor. Now,
however, things have been put on a better basis,
in this as in most other societies. And here also
there is every sign of prudent management—reserves
are being steadily increased and perishable assets are
being steadily written down. The paid capital is £5OlB
and the liabilities total £3267 ; on the other side the chief
assets are stock £7120 and book debts £2948. The busi-
ness is done largely on the monthly credit basis ; and in
view of that the book debts are not extravagant, and
moreover they are less than they were 12 months ago,
though the half-year’s turn-over has increased from
£17,520 to £lB,ss6—which, considering the size of Bris-
bane, is about half of what it should be. Still it is better
to grow like a gum than a mushroom.
« -* * *
Berrxma District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.):—
Writ-
Bonus to ten Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves.
1900.. £2460 10 p.c. = £92 12p.c.= £6SS £4Ol £3,771
1901 .. 2370 10 ~ ~ 94 15 „ „ 1010 307 4,730
1902.. 3482 10 ~ ~ 94 25 ~ ~2313 390 5,415
1903 .. 2609 10 ~ „ 95 25 ~ ~ 2000 368 5,561
1904.. 2898 10 ~ ~ 98 30 „ ~2525 295 5,541
1905.. 4073 10 ~ ~ 98 33J „ ~3130 342 6,044
1906.. 4929 10 ~ ~ 99 35 ~ ~3862 373 6,639
1907 .. 4394 10 ~ ~ 99 35 „ ~ 3450 338 7,146
1908 .. 5967 10 ~ ~ 99 35 ~ ~ 4240 320 8,454
June,
1909 .. 3404 45 11,813
This is one of the two big co-operative distributing
agencies in Sydney ; and, apparently, there isn’t over-
much love lost between the couple, though their prin-
ciples are co-operative. Profits are divided at the end of
the year; meantime, however, as the gross profits were
£3359 while the net commissions amounted to £6766, it
has been decided to cut down the commission to 3 p.c.
Not so long ago it was 5 p.c. No doubt this reduction is
the right thing, for big bonuses are mostly make-believe
—they mean taking cash out of the co-operator’s hand
and putting it into his pocket; and between percentages
and rebates the Cow man is liable to get mixed. Even
the dullest of him will, however, be able to understand
that the co operative co.’s 3 p.c. is better for him than
Private Enterprise’s 4 p.c. The shareholders’ capital is
very small—only £9B6—but the co. has been lucky enough
to be able to hang on to substantial reserves, which isn’t
always an easy thing for a co-operative concern to do.
Its total liabilities are £16,974 ; against that, besides
plant and stock, it has £13,084 on its books and £10,352
in cash. The book debts are equal to about a fortnight’s
turnover.
* * * *
The Footscray Gas Co. (Vic.)
Dividends Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits During Year. Off. serves, serves.
1903 .. 6 h p.c. = £1560 £9,248
1904 .. £2055 6 „ „ 1440 £539 £76 9,324
1905 .. 2341 6 „ ~ 1440 512 389 9,713
1906 .. 2816 6J „ ~ 1560 608 648 10,361
Premiums on new shares .. 221 10,582
1907 .. 2584 7 p.c. = 1680 897 7 10,589
Premiums on new shares .. 290 10,879
1908 .. 2615 7 p.c. 1912 94 609 11,488
Premiums on new shares .. 247 11,735
1909 .. 3527 7 p.c.= 2113 1174 240 11,975
It will be noticed that the divs. shown above are those
actually paid during each year. It became necessary to
re-cast the table and show it this way because of the
apparently perpetual increase of capital. Though the
directors mention the rate of the next dividend, they
don’t state the amount that it will absorb ; and it isn’t
possible to calculate it on account of the capital being
got in at different times during the year. For the past
half-year a div. at the rate of 7 per cent, was declared.
The reserves consist almost wholly of funds to cover de-
preciation of plant, mains, meters, etc. ; and if that de-
preciation has actually occurred, these funds are not
really reserves at all—they are merely accumulations of
revenue to renew plant which has been partly worn
out in the process of earning the dividends. If
the depreciation is more than the additions to
these reserves, then the dividends have exceeded
the actual profits. But, of course, one can’t
tell from printed accounts what the depreciation really
amounts to ; and that’s one of the chief risks in connec-
tion with gas investments. Recently the co.’s business
has extended rapidly. Receipts from gas and residuals
have rushed along like this : 1907, £8705; 1908, £9524 ;
1909, £11,545. The new capital plus a little bit the co.
had in hand has provided for all the extensions, and at
the end of the year the co. still had more than enough
actual cash in hand to pay all liabilities. Altogether,
things seem to be going very well with this co. The
capital, which was for many years £24,000, is now £31,975.
* » * *
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.): —
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1903.. £372 10 p.c. = £375 £4O £742
Dec., 1903.. 459 10 „ ~ 375 £B4 826
June, 1904.. 471 10 ~ ~ 375 96 922
Dec., 1904.. 524 10 ~ ~ 375 149 1071
June, 1905.. 418 10 ~ ~ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905.. 554 10 ~ ~ 375 179 1293
June, 1906.. 516 10 ~ ~ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906.. 508 10 ~ ~ 375 133 1567
June, 1907.. 488 10 „ ~ 375 113 16S0
Dec., 1907.. 543 10 „ ~ 375 168 1848
June, 1908 . 673 10 ~ ~ 375 298 2146
Dec., 1908.. 613 10 ~ ~ 375 238 2384
June, 1909.. 672 10 „ „ 375 297 2681
Of the reserves, £2550 is a fund for the renewal of plant
and gasometer, and is probably merely a set-off against
actual depreciation ; that being so, the additions to this
fund are not true profits either. In five years, the
financial position has changed as follows :
June, ’O4. June, ’O9.
Liabilities .. .. £5115 £5102
Stock and liquid assets 965 2523
Deficiency .. £4150 £2579
That is a gain of £ls7l—money saved up towards future
renewals. Meantime, the revenue has improved from
£1656 to £1920. The surplus of true profits over divi-
dends is not large ; but things are moving the right way


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Specially constituted
to ad as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Agents, etc.
Economical and
Efficient Management.
Absolute Security.
2, 4» (Si 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE G.M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF GWALIA 8.84 „ v
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
-KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES
SOLE AGENTS for
as purchased by the Govts, of N.S.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, and all principal mining com
parties, sugar plantations, contractors, etc. ; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. ft R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrloal Machinery and Materials of all kinds. (2 ’
The Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Co. is
to have another stock-watering, though it is only eighteen
months ago since it hud its last. The old co.—the Port
Jackson Co-operative—was in 23,468 shares paid to 255.
In the new co. five shares paid to 15s. (= 755. the lot)
were issued against every old 255. share. The first
balance-sheet of the new co. was issued as at June 30,
1908; there were then 117,340 shares paid to 15s. Now
the co. has decided to issue 23,468 shares, to be paid to
155., such capital being provided by the co. transferring
£17,601 of reserves. In other words, the co. will declare
a bonus of 3s. per share, which will pay up the new
capital. The paid capital will then be £105,606, of which
all that will actually’ have been paid up by' shareholders
is £33,770, including premiums paid when some debentures
were converted a while ago into shares. The 10 per cent,
div.—assuming that this will be continued—will therefore
be really equal to about 35 per cent, on the capital
actually subscribed.
From the investor’s point of view, see how the
present scheme works out. Shares have been put up to
575. 6d. Five shares thus cost 2875. 6d. Those five will
carry one bonus share ; average for the six, 475. lid.
Assuming that the 10 per cent, be continued,
this will mean a return of £3 2s. 9d. per cent.
If some day the other ss. per share is called up in cash,
ihereturn will then be £3 15s. 6d. per cent. If.however,
the ss. per share is paid up out of reserves the return
will be £4 3s. 6d. per cent. It means, then, this: in order
to get into this concern and share in possible future
stock-watering transactions, the public is now paying a
price which, even after the present watering-, will return
unly £3 2s. 9d. per cent.; while even if the uncalled
capital should all be paid up out of profits, the
return then would be only £4 3s. 6d. per cent.
Of course there may be waterings beyond that;
for 250,000 shares are authorised. But it seems incred-
ible that the public will put up with this kind
of thing indefinitely. There are thousands who
are prepared to let Private Enterprise make a fair thing ;
but when Private Enterprise goes in for a systematic
course of stock-watering in order to disguise its profits,
and to make a 50 or 100 per cent, dividend masquerade as a
10 per cent, return, the neck of the golden-eggedgooseisin
danger. So long perhaps as Sydney city and suburbs are
disunited, nothing may be done ; but once a Greater
Sydney is accomplished, harbor services will almost
inevitably' pass into municipal hands on the ground that
the old hands weren’t hands so much as they were talons.
* * m '*
“Zoebide”: Wild Cat (B. IG/9/’0!)) remarks
on the trick about to be play ed on the Australian public
by the running of a branch of the London and Lancashire,
a big English concern, under an Australian name. We
insurance men are living in a fools’ Paradise. We let
these multi-millionaire companies come and occupy the
choice corners of our dunghill. They bamboozle the
public with their gigantic figures, as the public is never
or hardly’ ever told of the enormous risks those millions
have to cover. In the S. M. Herald recently it was
stated that the fire insurances in Sydney are £86,563,303,
whereas in the City of London they are £1,055,200,172.
The Alliance Co. alone takes £180,060,702 of these fire
risks in London itself, arid the Sun office £113,916,970.
The public does not understand that an office which
owes the public on an emergency, such as a conflagra-
tion, the sum of £180,000,000 in one city alone must
spread that risk among a lot of other offices,
otherwise that office would be annihilated by a
very moderate conflagration. It is known to everyone in
the insurance world, though, that even of the premiums
taken from the public by large English offices in Aus-
tralia, over 6s. Bd. of every £1 is sent to be divided in
Europe in the cheapest insurance market offering, which
is generally French, German or Swiss. This means that
large sums in premiums are collected in Australia, often,
from patriotic Australians or Britishers, for the benefit of
our trade rivals in Europe ; and we may' be simply feeding
them and giving them strength to knock us or the
Empire out. The Bulletin is doing a truly Australian
work in warning the public against the folly of sending
money' abroad as long as good, solid, and solvent Austral-
asian institutions are to be had. At the present time
there are five or six subsidiary companies trading in their
own names but owned by other English Concerns, and it is
quite time an insurance commissioner was appointed by
tne Commonwealth to regulate such devices, Which are
infinitely worse for trade than the secret commission, for
which the Commonwealth has already legislated.
* * * *
The Casino Co-op. Dairy Co. (N.S.W.) made a
profit in the past half-y’ear of £lO6 ; but after writing off
£355 for depreciation, a debit balance of £249 remains,
■which should be rather more than covered by bonus to
be received from the co-operative distributing co. The
income was £36,354; cream purchases and cartage cost
£31,680, and factory wages, butter boxes, commission,
etc., £4921, This means that, of every £1 reeeived'gross
by the co. for butter, etc., the co. paid 17s. sd. to the co-
operative suppliers, leaving 2s. 7d. to cover manufactur-
ing and marketing. At the end of June the co. owed
£9069, and had stock and liquid assets totalling £4505.
It needs more capital.
* * * •
When it was announced the other day that the
directors of an Australian fire office were selling the con-
cern to an English office, it was added that the existing
organisation wouldn’t be disturbed, that the present
directors would continue to be directors, and that
the manager would also be appointed a director.
Though there is not at all likely to be any thing wrong in
this case, it is a horribly bad precedent. It would pay-
plenty of concerns to give the directors of rival concerns
£lOOO a year for life for selling to them the business of
which these directors happen to have control. There-
fore when shareholders are told that, though their
directors have sold their business, the directors them-
selves are going to be kept on —well, the shareholders are
perfectly entitled to say that the directors have put
themselves in a very invidious position.
• * * *
What is probably the record debenture deal of
Australia was done the other day by John Goodall and
00., of Melbourne, who raised privately' £333,500 on 4 per
cent. Metropolitan Gas debentures to renew those at 5
per cent, falling due in April, 1910. The lot were placed
in a week. Judging by that, it looks as though money
will be cheaper in Australia before long.
* * * *
About four years ago, when the Sulphide Cor-
poration was in a bad way, the directors decided that the
co. ought to be more or less independent of the German
and Belgian buyers of zinc concentrates ; but how was
the money to be got to provide the necessary works?
The co.’s own capital account was heavily loaded
already; there were 550,000 preference shares as well as
ordinary shares, and there was a big issue of debentures
outstanding. Under the circumstances, the directors
decided to float a new co., called the Central Zinc Co.;
the arrangement was that the Sulphide Corporation
should guarantee the new co. 5 per cent, per annum
for 10 years, and should get in return half
the profits of the co. in excess of the 5 per
cent, payable first to the co.'s shareholders. The
capital of the co. was £150,000. Shares were offered to
the shareholders in the Sulphide Corporation. Antony
Gibbs and Sons underwrote them, in return for which
the Sulphide Corporation renewed its appointment of
that firm as the co.’s agents. Practically this amounted
to a new issue of pref. capital by the Sulphide Cor-
poration—limited, certainly’, to a term of 10 years.
The co. proceeded to erect works at Seaton Carew, in
England ; but up to now they have made a heavy loss,
and the Sulphide Corporation has had to pay up the
guaranteed 5 per cent. The paid capital is £149,983, so
this means £7499 a year. The last accounts were issued
in London about six weeks ago ; and up to that time
the total loss (including preliminary expenses and cost of
necessary improvements written off) was £43,882. Part of
this was due to the writing down of concentrates owing
to the fall in the value of zinc ; including this, the loss for
the year to the end of March was £15,410. Against the
total loss of £43,882 all that the co. can show is a great
quantity of experience, which ought to be valuable.
Originally a technical superintendent was imported from
Germany ; but early this year, as things were going from
bad to worse, J. C. Moulden, a young Australian metal-
lurgist, then of the Sulphide Corporation’s staff at
Cockle Creek, was appointed general manager; and,
according to the chairman at the meeting in London,
“our operations for June and July have produced asmall
working profit over and above our costs of production
and general charges at Seaton, Nothing could show
more emphatically what a great improvement has taken
place.” If Moulden can puli this concern right out of
the mud—well, he will have done almost as much for
Australia to be proud of as if he had made 29 not out
against Kent.
* * * *
The Elsmore Tin Sluicing Co., a mostly-
Melbourne concern, which works in the Tingha district
(N.S.W.), continues to have no better luck
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1906 .. £1163 Nil £B3l
June, 1907 .. 2738 Nil £604 2965
Dec., 1907.. 570 124 p.c. = £6OO 282 2653
Loss.
June, 1908.. 305 Nil 2348
Dec., 1908.. 184 Nil 2164
June, 1909.. 497 Nil 1667
The paid capital is £9600; the vendors took 8000 paid 10s.
shares, and out of the proceeds of 16,000 shares on which
the public paid 7s. they also took £2500. There’s no need
to say who jias done best out of the deal; but when it
happened tin was worth £2OO a ton. The water supply
is poor, and some money will probably be spent in
improving it. That is the secret of success in these
dredging propositions. The most consistent dividend-
payer of the lot is the Great Britain ; yet until the
present co. came along, and saw first to a thoroughly
effective water supply', the ground was again and again
abandoned. Certainly the Elsmore ground is tough in
places ; but much of the toughness will disappear before
a more vigorous water supply. It will mean some calls,
though.
* * * #
Bogan River copper mine (N.S.W.) reports 8£
tons copper from 148 tons of ore for a fortnight’s run.
The mine is reputed to contain about 20,000 tons of 5 per
cent, ore, most of it suitable for cheap blast-furnace
smelting. A new shaft is being sunk to open up the mine
at a greater depth. It isn’t a high-grade show, yet the
quantity of ore said to be available justifies a certain
amount of respect for Bogan River. It has been lately
i said that the cost of transport of coke is killing the copper
industry in that district. The O.K. copper mine in
North Queensland is 50 miles from a railway ; but it pro-
vided traction engines, and thus reduced the cost of
transport. No plan of that sort has, however, been tried
in N.S.W. Transport troubles are often blamed for more
than they deserve. If the Bogan River ore is pyritic, and
qasy to treat with the modern water-jacket blast fur-
nace, the proportion of coke used should not exceed one
ton to every 10 tons of ore. With ore averaging 5 per
cent, this would mean a consumption of two tons of coke
per ton of copper; so the haulage of coke isn’t such a
■killing matter, after all.
* * * *
Queen Bee, Cobar (N.S.W,), has blown in No. 2
blast furnace, and after No. 1 has been repaired the
smelting capacity will be doubled. This mine has been
run under expensive conditions, and nearly 6 per cent,
copper has only' just paid costs. Last half-year the return
was 281 tons copper, which realised £14,623 ; as this was
from 4697 tons of ore, the extraction was practically 6 per
cent, and the value £3 2s. Sd. per ton of ore. Many a big
copper co. has to be satisfied with less than half of this.
The working account showed a small profit (£463), but
this and more was mopped up by development and new
plant. More expense is ahead, for the shaft is to be sunk
another lift below No. 5, which is at 570 ft. The upper
levels are pretty well depleted, so the future depends
(1) on the lode maintaining its value below No. 5 ; (2) on
the reduction of the past abnormal costs, which have been
largely the outcome of a hand-to-mouth policy.
* * * *
Gold Hill, Torningley (N.S.W.), has broken out
into a premature dividend. This is on the strength of a
crushing of 120 tons for 4400 z., the co. having got on to a
bunch of specimen stone. Going on the district’s reputa-
tion, the money now paid away to shareholders will most
likely be wanted badly before very long; for these
bunches are few and far between —the rest is poor stuff
like that which has almost broken the heart of the
neighboring Peak Hill.
•* * * *
The beginnings of a very profitable industry are
foreshadowed by the direct cyaniding of ore at Stawell
(Vic.). The ore is got from a large cutting worked many
years ago on the Big Hill, and with nothing more than
roughly' breaking it by hand, carting it out into the vats,
and pumping solution on it, the extraction has ranged
from 4s. to 7s. a ton. There is a large quantity' of the
stuff in sight, though a great deal of it is too hard for
such rough and ready methods, but results so far show
that, with a cheap .method of dry crushing and direct
cy'aniding, many flour-gold dyke formations and similar
bodies could be made to pay. Afew years ago the treatment
of tailings from alluvial mines was considered impossible
i n Victoria, yet now hundreds of heaps are being profitably
treated at ail the flour-gold leads in the State ; in fact, it
is almost impossible for the peripatetic cyanider now to
pick up an alluvial slum heap that will give an extraction
of anything over 2s. per ton. It is almost certain that, as
this supply of raw material cuts out, natural deposits
will be the next point of attack. The payable working of
the Big Hill ore at Stawell, therefore, small and crude
though the experiment be so far, probably means the
beginning of still another.epoch in the steady advance of
mining and metallurgy in Victoria.
#■***
Sloane and Scotchman’s, Stawell (Vic.), has
hopes that the improved stone it is now working at the
1000 ft. level, going south, may continue good, and chase
away the cloud which has hung over the property for
many years. As Sloane’s has no battery, the old Wimmera
mill having been pulled down, a good deal of expenditure
is, however, ahead if prospects warrant it. L. W. Grayson,
who erected the Lord Nelson.battery at St. Arnaud, has
been inspecting the property, with a view to supplying
an opinion as to the best method of treating the ore.
Whatever plan is adopted will have to be an econo-
mical one, as it can be taken for granted that
the mine will never be anything but low-grade. There is
plenty of pennyweight dirt, but the question is how
much richer stuff can be found to sweeten this poor ore.
The mine has had a fine asset in the Wimmera battery
tailings heap, which has been cyanided- on. tribute for
many years ; but this source of revenue is fast running
out, although there is plenty of low-grade slum left.
The Wimmera, like all Stawell tailings heaps,.varied from
very good to very poor, and poor stuff has-a. habit of
being left until the last.
Pretty considerable preparations are going on
in Westralia for a dive through the desert into the coun-
try where rich gold is alleged to have been discovered at
Tanami, about 110 miles on the Northern Territory side
of the border. The last sign of settlement on the YVes-
tralian side is Sturt’s Creek station ; and W. N. Frayne, a
well-known prospector—one of the few men who have
been on the field—sends The Bulletin a sketch of the
track. According to his reckoning, the longest abso-
lutely dry stage is 45 miles, and that is well out to the
field ; but at other camps there are only small
rock holes which can’t stand heavy use. There
are low ranges to the north most of the way
between the station and Tanami; south there
are rough ranges (Gardiner's Range is almost on the
border); and the chances are that if parties come to
grief it will be through going off the track in order to
strike the waterholes that are known to exist in the
ranges. The S. Australian Government is already trying
to open up another track from the east ; but it is certain
that most of the rush will start from Wyndham, on the
Westralian side.
•K * * *
The Westralian Mining Department showed a
loss of nearly £lO,OOO on its State batteries last year, de-
spite the fact that 10Q,000oz. were returned to the owners
of the stone treated. Prospectors with good shows pay
no more per ton than poor devils whose hopes are
blighted by yields below the actual cost of treatment.
The resurrected Siberia Consols got 12570 z. from 65 tons,
and paid exactly the same for treatment as the Saturn at
Mount Magnet, whose 151 tons gave only 430 z. State
battery returns do a good service in keeping down w'ild
cats. They tell the truth in a cold-blooded fashion, espe-
cially distasteful to the man who wants a show for the
London market. Some time ago, for instance, any lease
in the Meekatharra group would have been grabbed by
company sharks, just because the Fenian, Marmont and
Inglistori were turning out well; but the State battery
tells the plain truth that, though others may have plenty
of stone, they have precious little gold. The Occidental
only got lloz. from 60 tons, and the St. Francis 12oz. from
100 tons.
* * *
Numerous Westralian shows, abandoned by
extravagant British cos. as worthless, have recently been
taken up by small parties with good results. Among
others who are shaking hands with themselves are those
who decided to give the old Golconda, at Lake Austin,
another trial. They struck it rich very early. From
3001 b. of stone they got 4340 z., and a crushing of 25 tons
yielded another 150 oz. It’s all right as long as they
remember that it’s a fickle and unreliable district. The men
who first held the claim depended on the dolly pot to keep
things going. The stone was wonderfully rich, and in
the absence of weighing scales a pickle-bottle was used as
a measure, each of the partners for a time receiving his
dividend weekly in that fashion. Then the fame of the
Golconda reached London and it was snapped up. Shares
soared high even before the lease was transferred. The
lease was next fenced in with barbed wire, and a watch-
man was posted at every gate. But when the machinery
started the fun began. The 10-head battery soon ex-
hausted the payable stone, and the ore bodies below
water level were found to be of the genuine buck variety'.
Then working capital gave out and the concern was
abandoned. ,
* * * *
Black Range (W. A.) will be connected with the
main Murchison railway about the end of October.
Earthworks are completed to Sandstone, where the line
will end ; though, later on, it is probable that it will go to
Leanora via Lawlers, thus linking the Kalgoorlie with the
Murchison system. Sandstone is looking up, and some
districts outside are coming on fast. Youanme, 60 miles
beyond, in a southerly direction, is the centre of a net-
work of reefs, some of them already' acquired by Bewick,
Moreing and Co. Hans Irvine had the first option on
Miller’s schist claim and other leases at Youanme, but
turned them down ; but 8., M. and Co. are apparently
satisfied with the prospects of the district. Miller’s
claim has just crushed 284 tons for 8230 z. over the plates,
and the sands should give at least lOdwt. per ton. There
is at present only a five-head battery of the coffee-mill
variety at Youanme.
* * * *
The Bulletin has received a copy of the Flag
Co.’s last half-yearly report from the West, and after con-
sidering the document it wonders whether auditor R. G.
Gladstone still has the same dazzling opinion of the pro-
perty, and whether he is stiil willing to buy any part of
the mine at par. Receipts totalled £10,258, and in order to
make things look as presentable as possible no depreciation
has been written off plant, while development (£1453) has
been tucked away in the capital account. Notwithstanding
this, the accounts show a loss on the half-year’s working
of £242. At the end of the term the co. hadn’t any cash,
and it owed the tradespeople and directors £621, besides
being into the bank for £4789. This paper said six months
ago that only a trifle would be left for shareholders if the
sheriff’s officer unexpectedly blew in and sold the co. up ;
but judging by the balance-sheet just issued, that trifle
is a diminishing quantity. Ore reserves are given as 5400
tons of milling ore of a recoverable value of 275. 6d. per
ton, and 300 tons of smelting ore of a gross value of t 5 Bs.
per ton. Seeing, however, that a loss was made last year
on the treatment of 1145 tons of milling ore returning
275. 4d. per ton and on the smelting of 1192 tons of copper
ore of a gross value of £7 2s. ton, it is hard to see how
the poorer ore that is left is going to prove profitable
unless the copper market does some high jumping.
* * * *
Charters Towers has bad a dull time lately, and
incessant calls have caused a slump in most shares that
depend on the chance of the Day Dawn reef being found
over a big area. New Brilliant Freehold is a bright ex-
ception, for a reef has been cut in the shaft more than
470 ft. below the Brilliant. The workings east of Mills’
United continue to turn out about 800 tons a month
averaging over £5 per ton ; so, although the Freehold
hasn’t declared its maiden dividend yet, it has had a
large revenue, and has been able to buy a new boiler,
hoisting machinery and air compressor. All going
well, the first div. should be mentioned in November. No.
2 east level is out 570 ft. from the boundary, but the reef
has turned sharply off into the hanging wall, or towards
the shaft. Another reef 500 ft. east of the boundary has
been driven 30ft. on payable stone. It seems probable
that these branch reefs will all make north-east, and
possibly junction with some of the formations recently
proved*near the shaft. Assuming that this happens, there
will be a length of more than 1000 ft., though in this run
there are several slices of poor ground.
* * * #
Some inside information about the Hodgkinson
goldfield (N.Q.): “ I haven’t written before because, like
the rest of the men of this field, I very seldom have the
price of a postage stamp. A fellow can get pretty well
everything else he wants on tick, but a stamp calls for
hard' cash, and that’s different. I never in all my travels
struck a community so absolutely free from cash as this
one on the Hodgkinson ; and they seem quite happy
about it too. When you do get a job here no cash
passes; the employer simply takes over the value
of the wages out of the debt the employee owes to
the storekeeper, and adds it on to what he owes to the
storekeeper. There is a general squaring up about every
12 months or so ; but it is principally a matter of book-
keeping. In some ways it’s an idyllic state of things, but
when you want a postage stamp it has its drawbacks.”
* '* * *
“ Myrtle” : The reported discovery of gold near
Mt. Chalmers (Q.) has so far not done much good. A
lOoz. slug fell to the luck of a navvy on the railway work ;
but nothing much beyond that was got, as most of the
desired alluvial is on private property, and the owner has
bought a shovel and started work himself. The locality
is very well known. In ’69 Mt. Wheeler, two or three
miles away, disturbed the deadness of embryo Rock-
hampton by yielding some decent-sized nuggets. One
weighed 2580 z. lldwt., and another 1790 z. 14dwt.
These were from adjacent claims. Another party got 2590 z.
14dwt. of coarse gold in five weeks. Then the place
stiffened, and Cadden, the owner, sold the original claim
to a Chinaman for £B. About the same time Cawarral
Flat rush took place—“patchy ground and slugs” de-
scribes it. Meanwhile the Annie and Helena mines at
' Cawarral were started—and they’ve been frequently
/started since. The reefing shows which invariably follow
the alluvial flutters were not missing after the Mt. Wheeler
rush. The Galawa, owned by F. A. Morgan, was one of
them. It was when Sandy Gordon was working there
that they arranged, under Sandy’s guidance, to visit the
Dee copper lode, and it was on the return journey that the
“Ironstone Mountain” was spotted by the Morgans
To-day it is Mount Morgan. Mount Chalmers, Mount
Wheeler, New Zealand Gully and Cawarral, mentioned
above, are almost within beckoning distance of each other.
■3l * * •
The reserve fund of Mount Bischoff (Tas.) has
got down to ±31,000. Still, all through the recent big
changes a ss. per month dividend was maintained ; and
as the new 10-stamp mill has crushed 100 tons per day,
there isn’t much to complain of. More mill has been
talked about; but the latest idea is to separate the fine
dirt from the coarse, and use rock-breakers on some of
the latter. It is a constant struggle to keep down costs ;
and in view of the frequent changes, as well as because of
the variable tin market, the 3,000,000 tons in reserves
are of very uncertain value. Lately people have
been calculating on tin at £l3O, and thinking them-
selves very conservative for not making it more ; and yet
down to 1899 the yearly average for over 40 years had
only three times been as much as £lOO. So late as 1896,
in fact, the average was only £59. For the last 10 years,
it is true, the average has been about £137 ; and that,
sounds cheerful. But it is a precarious market, mostly
in the hands of Dutchmen and Chinamen ; and both lots
know a trick or two.
w * * *
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
* * » *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
« • « *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated 1 steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
V •* * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and 00. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* • * »
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows —168 in. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
noyelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom—thus practically'
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.* [2
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets.
In large size, Bin. x 4in. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney.* [1
* * * *
The Insurance Observer, London, of 4/9/’OB,
referring to The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, writes :—“ One can rest assured that the popu-
larity of this famous Melbourne Office is still growing, and
one may reasonably hope that the current period will
yield even grander results.”*
* * * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * »
Genuine Bauata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Win. .Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of.a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, whichis common slack, being
less than ljlb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
sy'stem of power.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria,*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * « *
One of the most complete equipments of Jeffrey
Coal Handling Machinery yet installed in Australia will
shortly be put into operation at W. R. Black’s Blackheath
Colliery at Ipswich. It will comprise a Jeffrey Car Haul,
Flight Picking Belts and 2 Refuse Conveyors. The entire
equipment will be electrically driven, each portion of the
plant having an independent motor so that it can be
operated separately if required. It will be practically
automatic, with a capacity of 150 tons per hour. Gibson,
Battle & Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney; 128 William
Street, Melbourne, are prepared to submit designs for all
classes of labor saving machinery.*


CORTICCtLI
m
We will send this Box post! paid to any address
on receipt of 17-
2 Spools - 50 yds. )' Black
1 - 100 „ ( or
2 - 10 Twist ) Cream
This will enable vou to
Will w ~ ~
test the quality
and realize that in using other brands you are
paying as much money for very interior Silk.
CORTICELLI SILK CO., Ltd.
Ha York Street - - SYDNEY, N.S.W.
McKENZIE'S EXCELSIOR COFFEE ESSENCE.
POSTAL EDUCATION
rf APS GOOD FRUIT
High Salaries and splendid prospects arc
opened op to those young men and women
who use rightly their spare evening hours
in mastering our courses ol Postal
Tuition. Besides all general educational
subjects we teach by easy and simple
yet thorough method*:—
Bookkeeping, Business Penmanship and
'Correspondence, Arithmetic. Shorthand,
Typewriting, etc.
‘Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, etc.
Send 1m "HOME STUDY." Pobi Fr«« ««» application
■sTOTT J 5 OARE"S
BUSINBSS COLLEGE
<3
£5O
&
S 3.
m
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY .
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . ♦ •
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
11 Squib” : X hasten to enter Yassberra for
“ Silas Snell’s ” windy district competition. 1 was
born at a small hamlet on the Federal Capital
site, and I am well acquainted with the blizzards
down that way. In my schooldays, one of them
THE WAY OUT.
FRIEND: “ You're looking very depressed this
morning, Clarence."
CLARENCE: “Fact is, old chap, this everlasting
struggle to keep up appearances is becoming
a beastly bore. And I don't know whether to
go insolvent or take a situation."
started out on a burst, and during one of its bad
moments it raced down on our hamlet and took
hold of it with its mouth and hind legs. My re-
collection of the.subsequent proceedings is blurred
with dispersed haystacks, travelling barns and
flying trees; but I “know that several pigs flew,
and an aerial cow did the Zeppelin act across an
exposed stretch of road. Several horses subse-
quently collapsed from gorging on the fodder with
which the landscape was strewn ; and as all the
horse medicine in tbedistrict had been smashed and
spilt the maddened owners could do nothing but
try and soothe their last moments. After that
storm the percentage of bald men in the district
moved up from B'2 per 100 to 147. I can vouch
for this, as I helped to revise the statistics that
year.
“Dick K.” : Bulletin’s recent talk of
racing pumpkins reminds me that here in the
Victorian Mallee we grow a. wild melon which,
when crossed with the scarlet runner bean, has
produced some very tine long-distance jumpers.
I have known them to cross a 640-acre block in
three springs, whilst in the matter of speed one
of them recently overtook a Stinking Fish yarn.
The wild melons" are very playful and have sports-
grounds where they hold races, but as they
worry the lambs farmers hereabouts lay poison
for them. The bait is beef-tea.
» « • *
“F.H.R.,” from the New England district
of N.S.W.
Many races of one kind and another have I seen, but
the perpendicular race has just come under my notice for
the iirst time, It, was up a shaft 200 ft. deep, and Paddj
Green won bv lOsec., to the surprise of all hands, Splin-
ter Jim ” having been the favorite at 2tol on Still,
though P. Green dashed past the top of the shaft hist, he .
was so grievously out of breath that he sat down and re-
mained speechless for some time. Splinter Jim fled
upwards out of the hole in much better condition, and his
backers are confident that in a 400 ft. climb he would win
easih. Unfortunately, there are no 400 ft. shafts here-
abouts. So the second struggle is necessarily postponed.
» • *
“ Polstan " : I once had the idea that a
flood had one great use—it drowned snakes. Now
I know better. You can’t drown snakes unless
you keep them under water till they die ot
hunger. Whilst digging drains after the recent
Victorian floods I saw snakes unearthed bom
ground that had been submerged for days, and
they were just as brilliant company as ever. J ust.
how long a snake can live under water I don t
know ; but this Ido assert—he is quite undrown-
able under ordinary circumstances, and I don t
want any Aboriginaliar to come along with tales
of old drowned snakes, because such a vegetable.
is far rarer than a dead donkey or a ringtailed
Manx cat.
* * * *
“ YXX ” gives warning : —•
Prospects in the country parts of N.S.W. point to a
record season. While preparing for Ins bumper harvest
the farmer had better give a few thoughts to the bush
fire. It is too late to start fighting the fare when once it
has got a proper hold. Early this year a fire burned from
near - Harden to Taemas Bridge (Yass), a distance of close
on 61) miles, travelling across mountains, rivers and green
forest country, despite the bitter tight put up against it
by many hundred men. But these fifes can be prevented.
Their chief producer is the simple wax vesta, which
may lie on the grass for days before an extra-strong ray
—focussed through glass perhaps—causes it, to explode.
Here and there the law steps in and proclaims a close
season for the wax match ; in other places, the storekeepers
enter mto a bond with the shire and municipal councils,
Progress Associations, Farmers’ Unions and such like,
undertaking not to sell the deadly match in the summer
months. The practice ought to be more general: store-
keepers throughout Australia ought to be barred from
selling these goods—say from October to April, and they
would be the gainers in the long run. Some people blame
the phosphorus poison bait for causing the bush file.
They do so rightly when the phosphorus has not been
properly dissolved. This class of poison is •‘broken
down” with carbon, and if thoroughly mixed will cause
no damage to the grass. On the other hand, if carelessly
mixed, the phosphorus will probably burst into flame a
couple of davs after being set out, and then there is
trouble ahead. The holiday-maker on the river, who
spends his time fishing and shooting, is often responsible
through his habit of leaving his cooking fire burning after
breaking up camp ; this fool is probably past dealing
with. In fighting the young bush fire, the main thing is
the formation of bush fire-brigades. Sometimes shire
councils do the organising, and they might very wisely
make a regular habit of it. Then to the individual
farmer and settler remains one duty—* Clear the grass
away for a good distance round your houses. If
the fire takes away your grass and fencing, you will at
least have your homes left.
Smith writes :
This is the story of the man with the tip. His name
was Dave. He read Training Notes every morning, and
knew just what an even-time gallop meant. Dave called
all the riders bv their front names, and spoke quite off-
hand about Ike Earnshaw and Tom Pay ten. Once a great
owner was pointed out to Dave, smoking 1 a bad cijrar, just
like any ordinary person. He knew the name of every
horse in the entries, and was always informed when the
money was on. You see Dave was acquainted■ with a
man ‘who knew a girl Whose brother was married to the
friend of a mucker-out. So Dave had all the inside
chat. When he got the office Dave was told
not to say a word for fear of spoiling the
market. Of course, he rarely had any money.
When he cornered a little change it went on to a good
thing, so he never had any good tilings to hang on to
himself. Dave had no time for people who bet m the
dark. They deserved to lose. He had a mind for figures.
After each race-dav he would reckon out that if he had
put 2s. on the first winner at 10’s and played up on all the
others he’d have cleared a cool 25 thou. It was just bad
luck he didn’t do it. They all looked such sure things m
the reports. When Dave got the tip he would go out by
the race special. Then he'd stroll round and look over
the clerk’s shoulders at the long columns on the betting
sheets. Once a nasty one asked him to breathe in some
other direction. After a while Dave would ask What
price?” The man who could afford to wear diamonds on
every finger through long dealing with wily plungers would
quote sto 4-“ 3to 2 you.” But Dave wanted oO to 20.
The Leviathan of the Ring used to get suspicious just
here and close up. But Dave would meet a game one
later on, and he would take the odds in pence. The man
with the bag used to say it was a pity he didn’t keep the
money till it grew. Of course, the horse Dave supported
usually figured amongst those that also ran. After the
race he would wonder how it was he let such a cert, as the
winner ffo out unbacked. He could kick himself for a
born idiot. Now and then, though, he would win 2s. bd.
by way of encouragement. Of course, be only had a loan
of the money. The man who called “ I lay ! I lay ! like
a conscientious chook, always got it back on the next. In
the end Dave would have to toss up whether he would
buy a stale roll or ride home. Dave would have to perish
for a smoke till next salary day. In the meantime he
would tell everyone about his hard luck. The worst of it
was that Dave knew a chump who didn’t try to best the
■ owners, trainers, jockeys and other parasites of the noble
horse. He didn’t profess to know a thing. He used to
back an outsider just because it had three grey whiskers
in its tail, or because he liked the set of its ears. Once
he won ss. because a starter was No. 3on the card, three
years old, and ran at three o’clock. But a sure thing
like that ought to strike anyone. It was sticking right
out a mile. Dave said, after that, that the biggest fools
had the biggest luck. The saddest part of this story is
kept for the end. Dave did really score a good win once,
but when he went to collect the 3s. 6d. someone snatched
the ticket.
STEELING- HOME TREATMENT FOE
REDUCING WEIGHT.
“Secret” remedies, aided by fasting and
exhausting gymnastics, have had their day as
“ cures ” for over-fatness. They have been tried
and found wanting. Here, a 1 last, we have a
harmless remedy open to the world ; the prescrip-
tion is published broadcast. You can mix it your-
self, or your chemist will do so. Ihe following
are the ingredients, with quantities required : One
half-ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract
of Glycyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine
8.P., and oz. of Peppermint Water. Take
two teaspoonfuls of this pleasant mixture after
each meal and at bedtime. In a very short while
you will be astonished at the wonderful decrease
of weight brought about by this sterling home
treatment, more especially as you are not required
to do any fasting or exercising, nor to depart in any
way from your usual habits. The mixture is most
beneficial to the system generally, the blood being
purified and the circulation improved. Lastly,
there will he no wrinkles left to suggest a too
rapid falling away of flesh.*
CONSCIENTIOUS.
GROCER: “ Why don't
you buy cheese from
me now, Mr. Jacobstein!"
Mr. J. : “ Veil, you see, I
notice yer alvays cut de
cheese mit de bacon knife."
“ Lacl ” : Anenfc the par of “ Lantana ” re
swagwomen (B. 2G/8/’O9). I have only seen one
such personage on the pad. It was between
Pack-Saddle Mountain and Cobharn Lake
(N.S.W.). I was journeying to Queensland, and
the country I had just traversed was a IG-nnle
waste, without even a tree to break the line of
horizon. Worse still, water was only available at
the Government tanks, which are on an average
40 miles apart. The woman with the swag had
been employed at the Cobharn Lake hotel as
cook, but having blued her cheque (and played
up considerably in the process), she was turned
out of the hotel. When I passed her she was 15
miles from the hotel in the middle of the desert,
and heading for Broken Hill, 154 miles distant.
f * * *
“Sabbas’s” plain, unvarnished idea for
saving the country
I want to draw attention to a breech-loading water-
conservation scheme, in preference to the old muzzle-
loading methods. Generally speaking, the dry-weather
rain brings more water than that which happens in wet-
weather style. This results in a great waste of ammu-
nition. ... ~ ~ ,
Part of the trouble is the old-time notion that water
will only run down hill. The right way to work is to get
it on top of a hill, not at the bottom of a gully. And
you must make it go up the hill itself.
Australia’s constitution fits it for these arrangements.
Probably no country is so addicted to dampness at night.
To make use 1 of this weakness build a pond on top of a
bill. Make it watertight by puddling clay. An open
tank more wide than high will do. Erect a number of
reeds, or galvanised iron rods, say 10 feet high and a
foot or less apart, all about your pond or tank. In a
few davs you \yjll be able to lay on the water to your
domicile or cows. The moisture will come from the air
at ni"-ht. These receptacles are called dew-ponds.
In one case 16 inches of “ rain ” fell in a fortnight of
heavy drought ; and if you do not believe me, try it.
The pond will never go dry unless a man is possessed
of devils. You can only find out if you have devils or
not by building a pond. Later on I hope t o he able to
ascertain whether a man lias devils or not by running the
divining rod over him ; but so far I find even boring is
unsatisfactory.
» * * *
“Gip”: Monaro bushmen don’t agree
with “ Pick” (B. 19/8/’O9) re want of pace in the
fox. A local squatter, discussing the pest with a
guest, remarked that running him down with a
horse was an impossibility. His friend, calmly
sceptical, was willing to back his racing mare,
used occasionally as a hack, against any fox
Monaro could produce. “Well, I’ll put ten bob
on the fox,” said the squatter, recklessly. Later,
riding on the plain, they put up a fox. “Ten
hob to me,” laughed the squatter. “ No, T m
d—d if it is,” shouted the other, and put heels to
the racing mare. But the fox grinned with the
squatter. It bounded away like the wind, stop-
ping now and then to look round, and once it
reached the scrub it was never seen again. Out
the other day with some hunters, and a little apart
from men and dogs, I saw a fox come out from a
patch of bracken at my feet. He went carefully till
he reached the open, winking confidentially at me
as he passed. Before my maniacal shriek reached
the men he was halfway up the range, standing
quietly behind a stump and trying palpably to
“place” the two tawny terriers, in color so like
himself, which were racing for him with out-
stretched bodies. A few more elastic bounds and
he had reached the scrub. And so good-bye to
him too. Nothing but a streak of lightning eou d
possibly have caught that fox. One case certainly
is known around here of a horseman running a
fox down. Reynard, in poor condition, was sur-
prised on a road between a long; stretch ot rabbit-
proof paddocks. Instead of keeping straight
ahead, he leapt at the wire, trying hard to get
into open country, and thus losing ground. lie
horse was swift, and the man s stirrup-leather
swung ready, and there was a dead fox. Poisoning,
as “Starfish ” (same B.) says, is an excellent way
of killing foxes; but the corpse is liable to do a
good deal of wandering. Our carefully-laid baits
are taken all right, but so far we have only
gathered in half a dozen skins. Later, when the
skins are absolutely useless, we stumble vexediv
on the decaying pests in quite unsuspected corners.
Possibly our baits lack suddenness. A local cocky
poisoned the carcase of a sheep not so long ago,
and next morning found no fewer than 15 dead
foxes in the neighborhood. He evidently had the
right recipe. Just by way of being irrelevant,
about the most hair-raising sounds I have ever
heard were the howls of hungry foxes, moaning
across the white moonlit stillness during a fall ot
snow last winter.
BUSH LIFE.
“Got lost one cloudy day laying baits. When
climbing a tree to locate myself, broke the
bottle of ’possum decoy in me pocket. And
before I could say ‘ help ’ I was alive with
possums. If I hadn't jumped 21jt. into a
hop bush I’d a bin et alive.
THE RABBIT HABIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With a rabbit in the cupboard, sure no hungry soul need
starve,
And rabbit is undoubtedly an easy bird to carve ;
But vve that range the suburbs with no permanent abode
Don’t hanker for fat rabbit as a meal-time episode.
Ah, rabbit-meat is with us when the chicken and the
goose
Are reserved for special seasons —and the rabbit is the
dooc6
Wl.en yon get him by the bushel, though he’s served with
sage or sauce,
And you do not feel his absence with a bitter sense of loss.
O, the rabbit is a habit in the house of dreadful hash ,
There’s such a meaty lot of him for such a little cash ,
And when the butcher’s pressing, which he often seems
to be,
You can buy a bunch of rabbit and respire more easily.
We go from house to villa, from palatial residence
To the cottage by the seaside with the newly-painted
fence ;
And we know the plain stewed rabbit as you others never
may
Who dwell at home with mother in the old, contented
way.
You may keep your scrambled rabbit if you’ll give us
plain old beef,
For the rabbit-stew is rocky and our teeth have come to
grief;
Take away the parsley-sauce—ah, please remove that
great, big dish,
For I know its only rabbit, though it’s dressed to look
like fish !
He is not Australian native, he is neither bad nor good ;
He appears, when he is roasted, like a chunk of varnished
wood.
Ah, the rabbit as a habit—when his hash is to be had
For the asking, or without it—makes the hash-house
haunter mad 1
VICTORIA.
STONY.


FOB.
w
More Mites PerCaflonThan AnvOti
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One=Third of Your Running Cost.
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties.
Send full particulars, with all plans and reports
available, to “ MINE,” care J. H. FAWCETT.
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
A Great Law Suit Decided.
The Supreme Court, the People, have decided
that Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery wins against
coughs and colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
4 - in the: £ DISCOUNT
We are taking off all Electroplate Goods.
The slump in metals has enabled us to
make special arrangements with the
greatest and best manufacturers of Eng-
land to sell their Electroplate products
at 20 per cent, off their English wholesale
catalogue prices.
This forced us to make similarreductiqns
on all our Electroplate and Sterling Silver
stock.
Plain Figures, Gash.
Electroplated with China line Pie Dish, 40/-
Less 20 per cent. Discount, 34/-
FAIRFAX <SL ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House iu Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
A just complaint was that of E. W.
O’Sullivan, that there are in N.S.W. about 90
Sugar-loaf Hills, about 150 Sandy Creeks, 27
Tin-pot Gullies, and 30 Dead-horse Flats. And
the Stony Creeks are even more numerous than
the Sandy Creeks. If anything could Vie done to
abolish Stony Creek it would greatly lighten the
burden of the local swagman. He is dead tired of
arriving at the frequent old place, and he has
worn out four billies filling them there.
• * * *
“Larrikin”: “Flinderino” (B. 2/9/’O9)
speaks of the cute ways of black brother. This
is an episode of the other-than,eute, and
happened out in the nor’-west of Wes-
tralia. An old warrigal nigger was
passing close to the station home-
stead. He was loaded up—
carried a bundle, a spear, boomer-
ang, waddies and an old billy-
can. When he struck the gate—
the first he had probably ever
seen—he tried to get through
the bars. First he put one leg
through, and hung on to all his
kit. Finding he couldn’t get
through that leg first, he tried
the other leg—still hanging on to
his 20 years’ gatherings. Next
he tried putting his head first.
Still no go. Then he tried to
crawl under the gate. Finally
he put down his traps, and
scratched a hole under the gate
big enough to let him pass under
like a dog, and drew his belong-
ings after him. He hadn’t the
sense to either push the gate
open, or get through the wire
fence, or throw his traps over
and follow them. This warrior
was making Away from the
camp, where an old gin was
dying—they mostly leave them
to die alone. When the “ boys”
thought it was a fair thing they
went back and scratched a hole
with sticks and buried her. But
they don’t always wait long enough.
When they think it’s up to them to
“tumble down” they sew them up in
their ’possum rugs and roll them in.
Heard a fearful row once down in the
creek. Rode down and found a mob of
niggers sewing up an old, sick gin in her ’possum
rug. First a skinny black leg, and then an arm
would shoot out, and how she yelled ! I rescued
her that time, but she died suddenly shortly
afterwards—too much yam-stick, I believe.
THEY RUN IN ALL SHAPES.
THE DIPSO (to the kinematographer): “Strath, mate, ’ow can yer expect t’ but a fire out with
a thing like that ?”
“ D.D.” : “Jimmie Pannikin” (B. 9/9/’O9)
starts a competition for the queerest-named
station, and enters Will-I-go-bung, which, he
alleges, is “well-known in the Tumbarumba
district.” Well known to whom ? I know that
district, but have not run across a station so
named. Nor does it appear in the pastoral
directories. James is disqualified from his own
competition, for he has apparently acquired a
station and named it curiously, There is a
station called Go Bung in the Enngonia (N.S.W.)
district, and We-ma-bung is known in Coonamble.
In the latter district, also, is Gundymungydcll,
which will take some beating. Gbtflbdrti-district
gives us Cuttygultygang ; Curleivis supplies
Boblooroocoproo; and Long Legs is found in
Corowa district. But the queerest title for a
jumbueks’ run Lhave met is Wild Dog H.L., .in
the Wentworth district. Why “H.L.” I don’t
know, but it’s hot enough to justify almost any
language of that sort.
OUR INDIGENOUS KANGAROO.
THE AUSTRALIAN: “ Therms a, boshter kangaroo,
Mister! ”
THE JOHNNY: "Haw! Yes, but you should sec
them in the old country, don'tokerknow! ”
The nomenclature of Australian towns and •
rivers might be greatly improved, but early Aus-
tralians were not, despite opinions to the con-
trary expressed in N.S.W. Assembly, the worst
offenders in conferring names. Some of their
designations were picturesque and suitable.
Where soldiers camped on the Parramatta River,
for instance, they named the Field of Mars;
where a few civilians nestled a few miles off they
named Concord ; where the free immigrants first
settled they called the place Liberty Plains. It is
the more recent person who is the worst offender.,
He seizes a prominent name and works it to death.
Take Joseph Banks and his effect on N.S.W. We
have Mount Banks (on the Blue Mountains),
Bankstown (near Liverpool), Banks (a railway
station on the Illawarra line), and between one
and two score of plants, all Banks of one kind or
another. ;*- - - • ■ •
“Yarrum”: I forgive the cockatoo his
grating screech for the sake of the one that saved
McClusky’s heiress. The child had been left in
her cradle near a fire in the sitting-room whilst
Mac and his wife took supper in another part of
the mansion. Cocky was a member of the family
and had the freedom of the house; so when his
ruined soprano burst into full screech in the
sitting apartment, the mother rushed to the dis-
turbance, and found the frantic fowl perched on
the blazing cradle and flapping at the flames with
his wings. The baby was snatched out just in
time, and the conflagration smothered with a
horse-rug. Investigation showed that a spark
must have shot across the room from the wood
fire. McClusky, though he is a farmer, now has
some difficulty in speaking harshly of the cocky
tribe.
* * * *
“ J.G.,” who has laid by his brass helmet,
backs up “ Flinderino ” on the agricultural sub-
ject of dry fire-brigading (B. 2/9/’O9): —
I was once connected with a crack brigade in the Bal-
larat district, and assisted to drag the manual engine
about the landscape and run out the hose. We used to
do a lot of extinguishing at the demonstrations, and at
different times we pulled home loads of trophies, escorted
by the town band playing “See the Conquering Hero
Comes.” But, somehow, we didn’t seem to be able to
keep the township from getting burnt. The fire gener-
ally started about half a mile from the nearest water-
hole, and by the time some water-carter yoked up,
galloped to the hole, got a load of fluid, and staggered
back, the fire would be roaring and blazing as if the
lid of Hades had been suddenly lifted. Meanwhile
the fully-uniformed firemen would be pulling the dry
engine about and yelling for liquid. When the water-
cart careered up, the suction hose of the engine would be
shoved in the water barrel, and about 20 fire-fighters
would begin to pump like fiends. At this stage, the hose
usually burst from excessive pressure, and soaked the
brigade, leaving the fire quite unharmed. One red-hot
summer’s day a big bush lire broke out at the back of the
town, and threatened to lick the whole place out of exist-
ence. We tore out to meet it with our engine and some-
thing like half a mile of hose. The engine was halted on
the bank of a creek, and the hose was run out ; but as
soon as the water inflated it fully it burst in its usual
insane way, and the fire made a spurt and came
at us like a herd of red-hot tigers. We just had
time to drop the busted hose, push the engine
into the creek and tumble in ourselves, when the
tidal wave of flame came roaring up to the edge of the
watercourse. Just then a change of wind prevented the
fire from jumping the creek, and perhaps boiling us to
fleath in its flight. However, before it burnt itself out
it devoured the busted hose, and when we crawled out
and prospected round amongst the embers, we found only,
the hydrant in a horribly blackened condition. The
next day it took about a dozen horses and a lot of swear-
ing men to haul the engine out of the creek-bed. About
six months after that, a fire started one night about
three doors away from the fire station. Once more we
rushed to the scene of blazes, and had to wait the usual
half-hour for a load of water. When at length it arrived,
two shops, one pub and one big building were a com-
plete mass of flames, and two shopkeepers, one publican,
and one landlord were shouting their heated opinions of
us, regardless of the fact that the local policeman was
present in force. The townspeople were-violently hostile
towards the brigade for a longtime afterwards. But they
did not have to wait long for their revenge. The next
conflagration was the fire station itself, and on that
occasion our engine, our new hose, our beautiful trophies
and our new uniforms were reduced to a terrible mixture
of metal and cinders. Then the attitude of the towns-
people turned to one of cheery condescension, and our
enthusi 'Sin cooled off until the majority of the members
resigned. It is hard to be a successful fire brigade
without water mains. Even if the reel happens to be at
home, a little liquid is needed to pour through the
perished hose. Certainly the country brigade’s hose
nearly always bursts ; but if it dies wet, it at least looks
as if it had perished while trying to do its duty.
NOTHING DOING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Orouolo (British Papua), August 12 (from our car-
respondent).— As there have been no events of public
interest, no disturbances on the part of the natives, except
one proved case of cannibalism a little west of this place,
I have refrained from writing for some months. —S. M.
Herald ( 6J9/’O9 ).
No nigger has been stabbed ;
No blood has flown
What time the person jabbed,
Wriggling alone
In bitterness, has grabbed
At stick and stone.
. And so my fountain pen
Has been at rest. . . .
No one within my ken
Has earned arrest
By slaying other men.
No human pest
Has raged the island o’er
Like Sosh incar-
Nate shedding people’s gore
Both near and far.
Crime has been “ off ” —nay, more,
Virtue’s at par.
Believe it if you will,
Or turn aside
In doubt, the local bill
Of homicide
Is practically nil —
And can’t be spied.
Only from time to time
The Cannibal
(He no reason has, nor rhyme),
At hunger’s call,
Has in Sin’s loathly slime
Contrived to fall.
(A case in point is known :
One who’d endeared
Himself to all has flown
Or disappeared.
His name? The Rev’rend 80ne....
The ivorst is feared.)
Barring this casual lapse
From virtue, peace
Our calm existence caps
And pious ease.
No grisly horror haps ;
We have a lease,
’Twould almost seem, of sheer
Placidity.
The moment that I hear
Of Blood I’ll see
You’re told Just now, I fear
It may not be.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on ,)fSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by .post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Joan: “Tides” rejected. Also, for reasons
which are probably known to you, no more of your copy
will be accepted, and future contributions will be putin
the basket unanswered:.. .Jean S.: You have brought to
perfection the art of making a paragraph into a column...
Lucifer.: “ The Pippin,” a small idea beaten out too thin.
U. Bron has done the same episode in much better
fashion 0.0. : “Volunteer” is a patriotic song in
which the metre isn’t up to the standard of the patriot-
ism. That simple, touching line, for instance,
But now they’re livin’ like Cows,
has certain drawbacks H.B. : Your description of that
Victorian bridge (written by a person unknown to us who
only gives his address as “Queensland”), and the de-
scription given by that old Bulletin contributor (whd
lias lived for years close to the spot and is himself
a one-time railway man) are certainly very different
Melvin Harrigan : Dislocated verses about old bagman—
“ Satan’s bastard incarnate,” as you rudely call him—
“don’t suit our style” A. 8.: No use for touching re-
miniscences of frog-hunting “ with a stick, a pin, and a
cord.” R.C.R. : Puerile puns Margaret Clare :
Heibne Guinevere’s handkerchief not an exhilarating
item. “ Flowers of Hope ” disappointing... H. H. Gaz-
zard: Too long and thin Reg: Alleged “poems”
merely collections of words in rhymed lines V.
Spirkes : Dead tired of weepful musings Tommy
Wattler: No name E. Reid: Bee-tree romance
unthrilling J.A.M. : Verses without distinction
West: We know the person who writes these criticisms.
It is the old story: Hell hath no fury like a vain man
sacked G.W.W.: A flood of tears obliterated your
dimly-pencilled pathos 1.1. : Keep your people in
ignorance that you’ve become a poet. Will help in the
good work by burying your doggerel about “The Row
Out There.”... Os.; Incidents too slight; and no stamp
accompanies them, wherefore they have gone a10ft....
J.F. : The straw-hat brigade said the nigger was
a “ nigger,” and the latter said the brigade was
a “ plurr.v liar.” The point of the jest eludes us
Nimrod : You lend no fresh joy to the Cook-Peary r0w....
Terence: Far too many Australian things calling for
attention to worry over the pedigree of Abraham and
Lot Ringbarker: You’ll be glad to supply us with a
weekly “ Puzzle Page.” Good Heavens ! Sarnia: The
Bulletin knows that district pretty well, and it reckons
the children are, on the whole, the best fed and clothed
in Australia Jog: “The ram Sir William” bristles
with drawbacks, like the fretful porcupine Gilgaridra :
Verse, though better than drawings, is poverty-stricken
in the matter of rhymes Hawkesbury: “Murphy"
shows that you’re an ingenious rhymester, and ought to
be able to do good topical stuff W. Bourke : New-laid
suggestions for drawings always acceptable ; and what
this paper accepts it is prepared to pay for... Snow-
Flower: Your poor little bit of tittle-tattle cost
us something for short postage. The crop of Vic-
torians who think that their penny stamp will
carry a letter all over Australia seems perennial
Moa’: Might, if you give us some idea of the date —I. :
“Boss’s Son” is solid truth, but not wildly interest-
ing Thorold : Verses about exceedingly drunk and
dirty person in gutter are sordid things.. ..Tommy
Wattler: Very inferior wattle poem M.A. : “Our
Warships” bump too horribly Janies Walker: Bright
spot or two in it; but the subject is trampled to death
already Vep: Not very bright variations on an old
tune... Phoenix: “Christening” poor.. ..Booberrum :
Labors up to a joke which is old and rank.... Bystander :
No space for purely local troubles. .. .Dolorosa : Expert
critics say the lady is not what she was, which is likely
considering her age. On the.-other hand she is still fully
good enough for the most of us— ~ A.G.G. : The craze
for butter-milk as a health-food recurs every few years.
Experience shows that some butter-milkers live long,
while others die early. Justassoine bank managers d 0...
Bismarck: Flat and stale... .H. E. Moore: Boil Bill
and Mick Hennessy down to a par H.H. : Pious but
rubbishy calamity tearfully silenced... .Les R. : You
mustn’t make dreadful merriment about English gram-
mar, or anything else that is English....B.M.: That
question must be dealt with from an Australian, not
merely a State, point of view 8.W.: Fish poem
basketed. Also, poetic license is decidedly strained when
Boileau must be pronounced “Boily-oo” for scan-ion
purposes. Some poets, however, don’t worry about these
purposes... .V. Sparkes : Theme seems familiar : De-
serted maiden drowns herself, mopoke screams mourn-
fully, “and all was silence once more.” The Bulletin
believes that it’s the mopoke or the curlew—or whatever
other bird happens to witness the tragedy—that writes
these yarns. One day a laughing jackass will send us his
view of the damsel’s disappearance.. ..Merroo : “In t e
future years that be” this paper may lose its head
to the extent of publishing verses like yours;
but the melancholy prospect is happily remote
G.O.L. : Three voluminous records of the refined pranks
and cultured wit of sixth-rate “gents” declined. with
pleasure. Fourth outrage, about skates, quite as inter-
esting Henry Olay : All right, wander through the
lanes and revel in th’ enchanted glade, and all the rest of
it D. B.G. : That Chinaman-policeman joke was orgin-
ally made by Mr. Noah Arkbottom.. .. W. Hughes : Can’t
prevent swindlers selling us second-hand jokes now and
then. Don’t remember all the jokes in the w0r1d....
L.G. : Verses as musical as the breaking of blue metal in a
prison yard Q. H. : Now Barabbas was a spring poet...
E.M. H.': Sentimentality about silly young asses who
broke their engagement and mended it again, touches no
chord in the heart of this soulless paper Guinevieve :
“The Choice” too long ; other too slight; both qonven-
tional. You enclose stamps for return, but no address....
A. J. Williams: Poem about the isle you “ doth know ”
called Love, and the “feminine form of beauty,
“ the realms of passion unknown to casual sight,” too
“precious’’forpublication....G.A. : “Long-lostßrother”
monotonous and used-up.... C. W.M. : Hath an ancient
and fish-like smell 8.8.8. :No name O.A.G. : What
dreary nightmares you patronise! Eros: Interesting
to note the effect of a hymn-book on an early tram load.
Otherwise, the story doesn’t thrill H.J.S.: Yarn about
green Orangeman breaking up yellow Orange meeting as
old as William IV E.O’L. (Kalgoorlie): Tangled string
of impossible lies about mosquitoes, girls, blacks, emus
and beer—very much beer Bunvip :If we published
your poem, Bananalanders would get so angry with you
and The'Bulletin that they would forget all Ividston’s
and Philp’s offences, and run the coalition into office again.
....Boronia: True to triteness ; wherefore, W.P.B
E R. : Right out of this paper’s line, and you ought to
know it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Mac. G. E. : Joke obscure and hard to dig 0ut......
Spinifex : We prefer your literature to your art. . Fitz :
Drawings wouldn’t raise the loud laugh which reveals the
unfurnished mind nor any other sign of mirth Bob S.:
U<dy, gruesome thing F.H. : Picture not very bad,
but'joke addled....V.Y.M. : Nothing wildly comic re
“Soon Settled” joke, and the illustration is poor
Alek S. : Rather crude, yet not wholly without hope
A. Hewett : None of them strike us in the right spot.
The “ no smoking allowed ” isn’t so bad artistically, but
the jest is as old as Tubal-Cain.


ftysic&J CuHSm for Wo«on '
IS S&v' a "fa t>c O«T
forfobly -for Some, of o.r
-jft* <irl S inlije ••
h*v« Wen for life-
W e -find nofkbWss
\>o\\h s . tier*. v*s
flowed ty * Seiion^T)
Seddon IS
,V\ 1) , b y r/vJ^
L\/ x wya who r^
M W* % 4 W / lg||
<W way lc%°*S J
°" ' r ot*)
ML:-'' If Tom feel seedv wty
do liW rne . Jve h^d
a, B> &S £rn°w i<vi W j
T. vra.*" ! |l
) I **
“meow !
ir u i
f'OT TEA.
A^S
IS So Annoyed
1 tie
W*ts
for eleoH orj
aoei-r r §<r
fncTurc-
+aj<en of itself.
We So«eS-T V
nne, ■* *..
tie SeT o| 6-
[joe's Ls^^m
"l oe CooK, / v 'io>s r er of Pefcncc,
I Mi«* +«* (*»«,«.»*»
£,r\ SK'on) To V’ e*Ws«V«. Sfeetli
©r>
Aluf-ay’ Im sure.
tontjA- Could nr
v T7urT" !
/v\ r pea>Kin moved
-ftjif tne«nWs|
Vv r ieS'> W S u S|>e"ded
f 0 r tie i*s.f of A
Sesyon • / H
*l£ **?”/ .
\Ktor re .<
- geKeac/ed Ve
*by Second-Wd who wv>f fo furc^e
tffe of tit f e r 5 on .
])ea»,Kin . Were nor il
We Vsw’eVt’’ decided whetoW to h We.
f>orK or beef &r you. W7u£»>r
M<j€ if in we our
Trends of * Sadden]*'
EVENTS IN MELBOURNE.


THE CAPITAL AS IT IS TO BE.
Australia’s Federal capital is to be in two pieces. One part is to be up on the tableland, and the other (two square miles) a long distance
away on the coast. As the Federal seaport won’t have much room in two square miles for drainage works or water conservation the
place has been christened Port Typhoid.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Do you want to live happy and Ions'?
Do you want to he healthy and strong-?
Laxp-TonioPills take,
For it’s not yet too late,
And vour system will never go wrong.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.»
A. J. Smith & Co. (Sydney), who do a large
postal business all over the Commonwealth and N.Z., and
with customers scattered all over the globe, have
removed from Hunter Street to 338-340 Kent Street,
Sydney. This firm’s catalogue of novelties, puzzles,
games, household labor-saving devices, rubber stamps,
etc., is well worth seeing. Can be obtained post free."
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A single line from the late T. Bent’s
obituary: “Ho was one of the six men who
inaugurated the Victorian land boom.” It is
difficult to imagine a worse epitaph.
THOMAS BENT, DECEASED.
Canon Honner, who died, the other day,
after about 40 years spent in S. Australia, wandered
around a good many years before he decided on
the Church, and even then lie always gave the
impression that he more than half thought he had
made a mistake. A fine athlete, he was probably
the only parson on hand who could have knocked
out S. Australia’s first bishop if they had put the
gloves on together. He was a great battler for
national defence ; and years ago, when S. Aus-
tralia took the Russian scare seriously, he grabbed
the chance to personally whip up a corps of 100
men in his country parish, and he put in more
time drilling them than in preaching to them.
Possibly the most sincere mourner at
Bent’s funeral was W. H. Croker, the Melbourne
solicitor. Croker had the best of all causes for
remembering Bent, for the deceased battler put
many a sovereign in the way of the symmetrical
lawyer. People can well remember how Bent
placed Croker in a fat spectacular position in the
Vic. Butter Commission, and few have forgotten
the aldermanic proportions of the resultant hill.
Then quite lately Croker again had reason to
remember the thoughtfulness of his crony when
he was engaged to defend the latter in connection
with the Commission on Bent’s land deals. No
other personage ever showed quite so much
appreciation of Croker as Bent did.
Col. Zeb Lane, one-time manager of
Block 14 (Broken Hill) and later of the Boulder,
was known as “14” in the B a rrier days. He
says that when he went to London to float the
Boulder his cabin number was 14, his luggage
was 14 packages, and his room in the old St.
George’s Club, London, was 14. But he is “ 13”
now—not “ 14.” His telephone number in Perth
adds up 13, and so does the street number of his
office. He sent a party of 13 under Allan David-
son to prospect the British exploration blocks at
Tanami. Also there were 13 members of the
British Exploration Syndicate, and the chairman
was Wolf Joel, who was shot in South Africa on
the 13th of a month. The syndicate’s capital was
£13,000. At Zeb’s dinner to the “Vagabond”
(Julian Thomas), at the Boulder camp in 1895,
there were 13 guests, and when the fact was men-
tioned the “ Vag ” said that he was a member of
the New York Thirteen Club. Twelve of the 13
are dead. The “Vag” went first; Bob Gibson
arid Jack Wilson last. Only the host is alive to-
day.
“ Henry Horsecollar ” writes :
Lord Rosebery, speaking' in his bitterness against the
Asquith Budget, lately reminded a large audience that a
Parliamentary inquiry had revealed the fact that between
1866 and 1896 the value of land in the United Kingdom
diminished by a thousand million pounds(.£1,000,000,000).
It is a magnificent slump, and makes one think Rosebery
might have done something to put affairs right. He was
Prime Minister in a rich, exhausted sort of way 15 years
ago. He was enormously affluent, and almost too tired
to be alive. He “rode for a fall,” as the saying is,
because he wanted to get to bed ; and the Liberal party
went out of office. Rosebery was almost too limp to sit
up by this time, and he was so rich that he kept his dia-
monds in the coal scuttle. Then he abandoned his
leadership and his party because he was too weary to take
nourishment, and became “ the ploughman of the lonely
furrow.” At the same time his wealth had accumulated
so much that he had to leave a lot of his money
out in the garden because the house was crowded. After
that he became a little more used up than usual, and sat
down on top of his cheque-book and fell asleep for some
years. Now, roused to sudden fury by Asquith’s new
taxation proposals, thi4 brilliant loafer lias rushed on To
the platform and delivered the prize speech of the last 10
years, and explained what many people knew before, that
British agriculture has decayed, and that British land
values have fallen in an amazing fashion. But why the
tired plutocrat did nothing in bis day of power to put
things right he didn’t explain. He just went home and
rolled on his wealth.
W. E. Hammond, of Melbourne and the
Inky Way, who died a week or so hack, had his
most prosperous time as
managing editor of the
Broken Hill Argus; hut
the end of it was dis-
aster. The Argus was
the old Broken Hill
Times, taken over by
the Queen-street mining
crowd and run for a
time on “Hang the
Expense!” principles.
Finally, howe v e r,
Queenstreet cut off sup-
plies, and, partly
through the implacable
enmity of one J. .1.
Williams, an influential
old hand of the Barrier,
the paper had to stop.
In the last issue Ham-
mond took the hit in
his teeth and ran all
over Williams, who
promptly charged him
with criminal libel. The
jury found the run-
away guilty, and Ham-
mond had to pay £IOO
or go up. He went up;
but after a while George
Stevens, another press-
man, rounded up the
money, and pulled Ham-
mond out. They were
all young men—Wil-
liams, Hammond and
Stevens —but Hammond
was the last to go.
Those early days and
nights of the Barrier
silver camps were not
conducive to long life.
The most conspicu-
ous thing that S. Aus.
will do in the way of
a memorial to the late
Speaker Holder is the endowment of scholarships
at the two Methodist colleges. It is appropriate
enough, for Holder was above all things a
Methodist; also, he was a school-teacher and an
enthusiastic worker for higher education. The
scheme is getting pretty general support—for one
thing, because the two colleges are not violently
sectarian. In fact, the State for years passed
many of its brainy scholars on to them instead of
setting up high schools of its own.
Some newspapers have taken seriously the
alleged statement of the late Tom Bent, of
Victoria, that Bent-street, Sydney, was named
after his father. All students of Sydqey history
believe the street to have been named after Ellis
Bent, the Judge Advocate, or Geoffrey Hart
Bent. Judge of the Supreme Court, who arrived
in 1814. Then there was another Bent—Andrew,
a newspaper man, who suffered much before the
freedom of the press was secured.. He is under-
stood to have died in the Benevolent Asylum in
1850. Tom Bent’s father is known to have worked
on the estate of John Jamison, of Regentville.
Penrith, as did Henry Parkes. After leaving
Regentville, Bent the elder became a contractor
at Penrith before trekking to Port Phillip.
Peary and Cook need not claw each other
over their polar bear exploits. Hitting-,the Pole
or any other old region is merely a matter of being
properly equipped with good health and D.C.L.,
the Whisky of the Wise. The inspiration of the
scholarly brand carries the ambitious to the goal
of their hopes, be it farthest north or highest up
in the regions of Success.*
In the eye of the
Church, Premier John
Weary, of Victoria,
just now looms as large
as a working saint.
When Murray turned
a deaf ear and a dry
tongue against Drink
even in half-pint meas-
ures, the brethren
emitted a shout of
approval ; but when
he declared against the
cigarette, the whole of
the clergy, collection-
chasers an and others
started gathering, re-
solving and dispersing,
and gathering and re-
solving again at a de-
lirious rate. It is the
same old crowd all the
time, and one resolu-
tion should be enough
for them. But it isn’t.
As soon as one resolu-
tion is passed and
labelled as from the
Distressed Cannibals’
Handkerchief Society,
the resolvers disperse,
rush round the corner,
and meet to pass an-
other which bears the
brand of the Bone Dry
Templars. The thing
seems capable of being
carried on indefinitely,
and Weary is having
rather a had time of
it. It makes a big
rent in his day to have
to read all these reso-
lutions.
Adamson, late
M.L. A. for Mary-
borough,- has given
Parliament best and
returns to the pulpit.
He says that the in-
trigue, scheming and
hypocrisy disgusted
hnn. And yet that
would seem to be just
the sort of place that
calls for parson s.
Doesn’t Adanvson re-
member an earlier Re-
former who remarked that Pie came not to call
the righteous but sinners to- repentance?
Victoria lost an antediluvian railway servant
when John Jeremy passed out, the other day, at
the age of 90. He arrived in the State in 1852,
and tried farming and contracting with little
success. He then wandered into the Vic. railway
service, which was in its teething stage, and be-
came the first station-master at Footsoray. Sub-
sequently he took charge of two or three country
stations, and later dropped into the supreme com-
mand of the Spencer-street terrhinus. Early in
18(13 he climbed into the job of Traffic Super-
intendent, and, a few months later, became Traffic
Manager. But further ascension was stopped by
a sunstroke, and he really made no other rises
until he died. Then, like all dead people, he rose
in the estimation of his friends.
Some last-train memories by “Kodak ” :
I shall always associate the late Bent, of Victoria, with
the last train from Flinders-street to Brighton. He
usually travelled home by that belated steam caravan
when the House was sitting and the usual crisis was
absent; and if you looked at him long enough, he would
ask you affably how you did. Everyone in Brighton was
supposed by Bent to know Bent and to look up to him as
the patron saint of the district—which he und übtedly
was. He was usually a tired old man on the long journey
home ; he rarely spoke much, but sat back with his soft
felt hat over bis eyes, and fixed his gaze on anyone who
happened to be reading the evening paper. There
was usually an account in it somewhere of how
the Premier had roared at-a deputation. When you
compared the printed report of the roars with the drowsy
volcano on the opposite seat, you felt he had a right to be
taciturn. He must have roared himself into utter weari-
ness. One night on the way home I saw him surprised
and tackled bv an eager person who wanted a grant or
something of the kind. The old man had been dozing
when the grant-hunter got in and found the head of the
State unguarded. Remorselessly he seized on the weary
politician, and started to bombard him with arguments.
Bent shook himself, grasped his stick with both hands,
and listened grimly until Elsternwick was reached and
the concession-hunter rose to get out. Then he gave him
a loud and decided “ No,” and, settling back in his corner,
shut his eyes and ignored the cadger’s crushed “Goml-
,night, Sir Thomas.” If Bent h and possessed a stock of
similar vigorous negatives he might not have blundered
so badly in the later days before he went back to the
earth he loved so well.
THE THINGS ONE MEETS IN
THE TOMB.
When Harriman, the U.S. railway king', was on his
deathbed,he had a long interview with his fellow million-
aire, Pierpont Morgan. Arrangements were made to
prevent the bears of the Stock Exchange raiding Harri-
man’s stocks after his death. —Cable News.
LIVING MILLIONAIRE : “ Yes, well put up
50,000,000 dollars to keep off the bears. Is
there anything else? ”
PARTIALLY-MILLIONAIRE : “Ho you think
the syndicate could put up enough to keep off
the worms ?”
“ J.R.” writes :
“ Henry Horsecollar ” (B. 16/9/'9) discourses on our old
friend Brolly Hushes' attitude to Canberra. Hughes is
rather an interesting person, and judging by his previous
political antics, and especially by his two-column pre-
sentation of the case for Labor which appears every
Saturday in Sydney Telegraph, he is preparing to justify
the saying of Edouard Hervb, who used to edit the Paris
Soleil
“Every French aristocrat has in him the making of a
good democrat, and every British democrat has in him
the basis of the most reactionary of aristocrats.”
The)' have to develop, and they do, if they are only
allowed time. In France there were men like Mirabeau,
Lafayette and Lamartine, all aristocrats who developed
into revolutionaries; and in Britain there arc as con-
spicuous instances of the democrat turned aristocrat, Joe
Chamberlain, John Bright and Jesse Codings. Here in
Australia, too, we have Joe Cook and Chief Secretary
Wood, of N.S. W., with Holman and Hughes coming on,
though they are, perhaps, not yet quite ready to join
the Aunty-Sosh chorus. That will come all in good time,
and then we shall see what we shall see.
“ E.F.” about a world-traveller :
Foster Fraser strikes me as a travel-fatted person with
the weariness of 18 continents and two dozen oceans
underneath his showman’s briskness. When the map of
Russia is thrown on the screen, and he slashes it care-
lessly with a long pointer to indicate his immense journey-
ings in that chaotic land, his manner is a mixture of
despair and boredom. He talks about the distances with
an air of “ I know you won’t be able to realise it, but of
course you have to be told.” Then he asks wearily for
the lights to be turned down, and a heap of dead Russians
are thrown on the sheet. It is a show calculated to cause
great- grief to undertakers —there are so many corpses,
and they are all so untidy. The slides showing the heaps
of bodies gathered up from the streets get rather
wearisome. A really impressive picture is that
of Prime Minister Stolypin’s house the morning after
the Terrorist threw a bomb into it and killed 28
people. Nearly the whole front of the building has been
blown out and the ruins are infested with idle, beauti-
fully-dressed officers, who look too well-tailored to be
capable of torturing a nude woman with the hot ends of
cigarettes. In speaking, Fraser prolongs the word “Jew ”
to three times the length the dictionary allows it. It
ends with a hiss. He persists in his theory that, did
Russia get Responsible Government, Levi the hated one
would somehow get himself elected to Parliament; and
when the Russian found himself being governed by Levi
he would rise up and make a worse mess of things than
ever. According to Fraser, Levi makes such a good living
out of the Russian that he elects to stay on amongst the
bombs, and adds the chance of being massacred to the
interest. It is a fierce, untidy existence, and the
dishevelled corpse with its beard pointing at the sky is so
frequent that it lies almost unheeded at the street corner.
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble and Bladder
Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appreciate good
advice, and we are glad, therefore, to be able to publish
the following from a prominent physician.
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of kidney
trouble and other diseases, such as rheumatism, bladder
and liver troubles, which are almost invariably caused by
weak kidneys. It is said on good authority that fully one-
third of the people in Australia who have reached the age
of maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney trouble
in some form. The most dangerous feature of this dis-
ease is the fact that many people have it without their
knowledge, and consequently neglect it until it has
reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as backache,
must be given prompt attention, and a good reliable
treatment should be taken, until every trace of the dis-
ease has been eliminated. We are glad to be able to give
our readers a prescription which we have seldom known
to fail in any case. It contains no harmful ingredients,
is pleasant to take, not expensive, and can be supplied by
any good chemist. It is as follows :
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce ; Syrup Rhu-
barb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound, one ounce ;
Svrup of Ginger, five ounces.
'Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at bedtime.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we know it
will help our afflicted readers who give it a fair trial. If
taken continuously for a few weeks, it will be found to be
an almost, absolutely certain cure for rheumatism, kidney
and bladder trouble, backache and all allied complaints.
Note.— Other papers are privileged to copy the above.*
A PLOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Brucf, Smith : We say there are conspiracies for
Unification.— Hansard.
Smith .
Bruce Smith !
Rises frenziedly herewith.
And he begs to state that someone isa-plotting wickedly ;
There’s a scheme to wipe out Wade and his old State
Frights brigade,
And to sink them simultaneous in the damp and dismal
sea !
Ye may nightly hear him scream as he wakens from his
dream—
As he shudders at the vision of the base Conspiracee !
Smith!
Spruce Smith !
And his Tory kin and kith —
They are shedding weeps of anguish in their tall and
burnished hats ;
They have dropped the marriage lie, hung their tiger out
to dry—
For a spectre new and fearsome rises up to scare the
Fats !
Yea, this base conspiracee, so they say, will bind the
free—
But Australia poketh borak and the people murmur
“ Rats ! ”
Smith !
Goose Smith !
He has found a precious myth —
Raised a monster full of venom and embroidered round
with fangs ;
Very shortly we shall see scenes of base iniquitee
Where the Fatman shall be stricken with a Torquemada’s
pangs 1
Blood and hair shall surely fly—dreadful deeds shall
horrify,
Such as happened up in China to the disembowelled
Wangs!
Smith !
Jews’ Smith !
Write upon his monolith —
“ Here abides the mighty Prophet who foretold the Deeds
to Be ;
He described the awful plot, told us how the blood would
clot—
How the corpse of slaughtered Freedom would be fur-
nished f.o.b. !
He foresaw the fearsome things—deaths of Emperors and
Kings—
’Course, these wonders didn’t happen, still —here sleepeth
Smith, M.P. ! ”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
PASSING OF THE BURTHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Harriman, knowing that he was dying, summoned
Mr. Pierpont Morgan, who h id been his chief opponent,
and they conferred for two hours and arranged for the
upholding of the market for the protection of the Harri-
man interests. — Cable.
Who mumbles in the room of Death ?
It soundeth like a prayer !
I hear the sick man’s hissing breath.
Hath he a priest in there ?
Who whispers in the darkened room ?
What god doth he implore
Before the silence Of the tomb
Shall close for evermore?
Fanned by the draught, the candle flares
And towards extinction burns ;
The pallid clock-face grimly stares ;
The hour-hand slowly turns.
Faint sounds into the stillness drop
Like stones into a pond ;
But on and on without a stop
They talk—or pray—beyond.
Who lingers with the dying man,
And, ’fore Eternity,
Does all a true believer can
With a last litany?
No priest is it that murmurs fast
To him who nears the grave.
And prays to Heaven at the last
A human soul to save.
But millionaire with millionaire
Through Life's fast-closing door,
Bargain so other ones may bear
The millstone that he ivore.
N.S. W.
E. FRANCIS.


COMPARATIVE SIZES OF THE SYDNEY GENERAL POST OFFICE AND THE DEVIL’S COACH-HOUSE (CUT IN SECTION),
JENOLAN CAVES, CHE OF THE NATURAL WONDERS OF THE WORLD.
The height to top of the aperture of the Cave is 28Cft —the height of the Post Office Tower is 235 ft.
Australians do not boast. The Director of the Immigration and
Tourist Bureau of Ne-w South Wales, regards this fact somewhat
regretfully, for he sees here an immense advertisingpotentialily going
to waste. Mr. Hunter’s hpart is in his work of setting the ad\an-
tages of his country boldly before the nations of the world, and every
patriotic Australian is sympathetic, with this aim, and applauds the
results already achieved by the New South Wales Bureau. A good
deal of work remains to be done in impressing Australians with the
bigness of their own possessions and the boundless possibilities the
future holds in store. “You should be thrilled with optimism as to
the future of Australia,” says Poster Fraser, who has probably seen
more of all the other countries of the earth than any other living
man. There are many big things in Australia, and some that are
unique. The wonderful systems of limestone caverns fall into both
-categories. Jenolan, Womheyan and Yarrangobilly are unique in
their mystery and extraordinary beauty; and the illustrat ionon this
page gives some faint idea of the immensity of the Devil’s Coach
House, one of the caverns at Jenolan. Into this huge yawning gulf
in the limestone it would be possible to fit the Sydney General Post
Office, tower and all, and still leave room for an ocean-going liner and
Parliament House. All Australians should make a point of seeing
these caves in order that they may fully appreciate the natural won-
ders of their native land. A special excursion is being conducted by
the Tourist Bureau to the Caves, extending from Friday, Ist, to Tues-
day, sth October, covering Eight Hour Day. On this journey the
mysteries of the underground river will be explored, and the Lucas,
the Right and Left Imperial, and Nettle and Arch Caves visited also.
The total cost of the trip is £4 45., hut early application for tickets
will be necessary. Anot her Tourist Bureau attraction is a combination
tour from Monday, 27th instant, to Friday, October Ist, visiting
Kurriell and George’s River, the Hawkesbury, Newport and M nly,
Bulli Pass, all parts of the Harbor, and the Blue Mountains. Tickets
covering all expenses, first-class, on this tour are available at 13 10s. ;
and an excursion is also to be conducted to the Wombeyan Caves
covering Eight Hour Day. The experiences of those who have taken
the Tourist Bureau trips go to show that they are the most enjoyable
excursions possible, and the series now announced promise to be
more than usually successful.


mum
. ' • »
It is Curable by Restoring
Weak Run Down Nerves.
o
This Case Shows the Special
Value of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills in Neuralgia.
There’s a reason why Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
have cured severe cases of sciatica and neuralgia
and other complaints in the group that are known
as disorders of the nerves. This group also in-
cludes St. Vitus’s Dance in children, paralysis, and
the common state of extreme nervousness and
excitability. Note this. Each of these com-
plaints exists because there is something the
matter with the nervous system. If the nerves
have tone—are strong and healthy—you will not
have any of these complaints. Well, the reason
that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure nervous dis-
orders is that they restore weak, run-down nerves
to their proper state of tone. They act both
directly on the nerves and on the blood supply.
The highest medical authorities have noted that
nervous troubles generally attack people who are
bloodless, and that the nerves are toned when the
blood supply is renewed. Therefore Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cure nervous disorders by curing the
cause of the trouble.
In this case of neuralgia at Church Street,
Chiltern, will be seen that Mrs. R. Coleman was
attacked when she was in a weak, run-down con-
dition, and that she ceased to suffer with neuralgia
when her general health was restored.
“I was about twenty when neuralgia started,”
said Mrs. Coleman. “ I suffered agonies, and the
attacks would come on without warning. At
times I’d be almost crazy with the pain. I’d feel
it in the temples and both sides of the face. It
was as if all my nerves were on fire, and being
torn and wrenched. I’d rub my gums with lauda-
num, and I tried steaming the face with eucalypt-
us, but this only made me worse. On a hot day I
was just prostrated. The attacks would last for
hours. I’d walk the floor all night crying with
pain. I suffered like this for thr«e months. My
friends round about could hardly credit that I
was the same girl. My clothes merely hung on
me. I got weighed every fortnight, and each
time I weighed less. I was as white as a sheet.
My eyes had black rings round them and were
unnaturally bright. My face was shrunken, and my
skin was always clammy and moist. I had to
sleep between blankets, and in the morning I was
just bathed in perspiration and so weak that I
had hardly the strength to get up and dress my-
self. I could do no work in the day, only sit on
the verandah and get the air. I couldn’t sit up
right. I always had a sore tender feeling right
across my chest and up each side. I could hardly
fancy a morsel of food. The doctor gave me
every attention, but it wasn’t until after I started
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that I began to get
better. I took one pill after each meal and they
worked like a miracle. I am to day plump and
hearty and in good health.”
When you ask for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
don’t be put off with anything else. Go, where
you can get the genuine with Dr. Williams’ name
on the outside wrapper ; it’s the genuine that
cures. Price 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d.
To be had of storekeepers and chemists, or sent
direct by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia, Ltd., Sydney.*
Don’t Cough All Night.
Restful sleep follows the use of I)r. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. The best lung remedy in the
world. Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every
bottle guaranteed. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Walter Bradley & Go.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining' Boom Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
PICTURES
State wishes clearly,
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order cn London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
inay be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price— 3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDGWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
fg
df
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emascuiators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne. SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
WAKING FROM THE NIGHTMARE.
If Foster Fraser writes a book about Aus-
tralia, he will pour scorn on this country for its
treatment of the transcontinental railway pro-
jects. Fraser takes lots of care, a rule, not to
damage the feelings of the people who’ve paid
good money to hear him; but when he gets on to
ids lecture on Siberia—which is mostly Siberian
railway—he forgets that he came from Glasgow,
throws his rule overboard, and openly gibes at Aus-
tralia first and last. The Siberian can dodge work
with anybody in this world, says Fraser, and the
Russian isn’t much better; “ but ’’—and then
Fraser, who only uses a gesture about once a
week, snaps his fingers—“don’t you talk about it.
They’ve built their transcontinental line, and
spent over £80,000,000 on it; while you !
Yes, the Russian builds his transcontinental line,
and doesn’t merely talk about it.”
Brother Snowball, of the Melbourne
Orange movement, said the other day :
A Catholic boy, whom I met in the country, told me it
was the priests who kept the people of the respective
churches apart, because their desire was to keep the
people in the dark and their hands in the people’s pockets.
It is a great pity Snowball can’t produce that boy.
He is evidently a thoughtful youth with a high
brow and a luminous eye—an animal of large
discourse looking before and after.
When Bill Lyne passed his Sea Carriage
of Goods Act he was met with a storm of abuse
from the Tories and the dreary minions of com-
merce. whose main argument was, “Whatever
will they say in England?” But like vote by
ballot, old-age pensions, arbitration and other
Australian reforms, the Sea Carriage of Goods
Act is hailed in Britain as a deed of statesman-
ship. The Chamber of Commerce Congress passed
a resolution to the effect that the attention of all
British commercial bodies should be called to it,
and they should be urged to advocate its general
adoption. Yet no one said a word for Bill.
It is complained that out of the 200 or
more “scabs” who came to the assistance of
Irvine and Bent at the time of the Victorian
railway strike a very few years ago, every driver,
and all the firemen except about half-a-dozen, are
gone. A few resigned, a few died, a few simply
failed to turn up some morning, but the great
majority were just booted out. There is nobody
whom the management despises more utterly or
boots out more cheerfully than the noble
“loyalist” “who stood by him in the time of
trouble.” When the trouble is on the “loyalist”
is promised the earth, and when it is over gets
some of it—in the eye.
Boot-manufacturer Whybrow, of Mel-
bourne and other parts, puts his side of the case:
As one of the deputation of boot manufacturers that
recently waited on the Commissioner of Customs in refer-
ence to the new Patents Bill, and as a lessee of the United
Shoe Machinery Cos. of America, may I be permitted to
say that the remarks in Thf, Bulletin of the 9th mis-
represent the attitude of manufacturers towards the Bill?
The deputation didn’t object to the principles of the
Patents Bill, nor were any alterations asked for that
would seriously impair the effectiveness of its compulsory
manufacturing clause. What was requested was that
patentees should be safeguarded from being unfairly
harassed and continually put to expense in defending
their patents from actions by irresponsible persons ; and
it was suggested that the Commissioner should, before
revoking a patent, have to be satisfied that the person
taking action was a bona-fide prospective maker or worker
of the patent.
As regards the relations existing between the United
Shoe Machinery Cos. and its lessees, these are open and
above board. I do not know of any lessee who is being
oppressed by the leases. Manufacturers are doing busi-
ness with the co., not because they are compelled to, but
because of the merits of the co.’s machines and the com-
pleteness of its organisation and system. After previous
experiences in buying machinery at great cost, and fre-
quently finding it in a few months obsolete and worth
as much as old iron, manufacturers recognised the advan-
tages of a system which at small outlay gave them the
very latest thing in shoe machinery, as well as instruc-
tion and guarantee in the working of it, and which en-
abled them to give to the public better values in its. foot-
wear. They also realised that security for the safety' and
control of its machines, and a guarantee of their proper
and remumerative use, were essential to the life of the
co. ; hence the signing of contracts covering periods
mostly of five and seven y'ears. That the s.ystem of the
co. has been satisfactory is proved by the enormous
expansion of its business, and the establishment of
machine works in England, France, Germany, etc. ; and
here in the Commonwealth the co. has by far the largest
staff and best, equipped works for the manufacture of shoe
machinery.
The innuendo suggesting secret arrangements between
the established manufacturers and the cb. to stifle com-
petition must have been written without proper enquiry.
The history' of trade during the last eight or 10 years
shows that the sy'stem of leasing machines has made it
much easier to commence the manufacture of shoes than
when machines had to be bought outright; and the terms
are available and alike to all.
Tasmania, which keeps calling itself the
garden of Australia, also keeps on losing
its population. Every other State in
the Commonwealth showed a decent
increase during the April-June quart-
er of this year—all except the
“garden,” which went on losing its
orchardists. At the end of last year
the Speck’s total was 185,824 ; on
June 30 it was only 183,189. So far
as natural increase goes (that is, ex-
cess of births over deaths), Tasmania
is easily first among the States, and
so it ought to be moving ahead fast;
the reason why it isn’t is that in the
past 10 years there have been only
two when the emigrants didn’t out-
number the immigrants. Still Tas-
mania is tremendously proud of its
sheep, and for one reference it makes
to its loss of population it makes
ten to the fact that its stud rams
scored top price at the Sydney and
Melbourne sheep-sales.
Just a casual business notice
from a Sydney paper :
Messrs. Henry F. Halloran and Cos. report the following-
sales. . . . The same firm also reports the sale to a com-
pany of two blocks, totalling 3693 acres, of rich swamp
land, for subdivision into farms, at Grahamstowm and
Camp Vale, near Raymond Terrace, in the Hunter
district, w'hich should be suitable for lucerne growing
when an extensive drainage scheme now being carried
out by the Government is shortly completed.
And, as usual, not a word about the Government
asking that company to pay for the improvements
to its 3693 acres.
There are now 50,068 old-age pensioners
on the Federal list. The Commonwealth already
pays 4179 more pensions in Victoria than the
State Government did, 1462 more in N.S.W. and
484 more in Queensland. The figures suggest that
the Victorian State Pension Department was what
many suspected, chiefly a bureau for finding
plausible excuses for throwing the applicant out
on his ear. And if the Commonwealth borrowed
a few N.S.W. magistrates and sent them to
Victoria to hear applications, instead of leaving
the work to Victorians, trained under Bent and
Peacock to view the applicant as a public enemy,
the discrepancy would be even more marked. It
was in Victoria and only the other day that “ the
Bench,” after allowing an aged applicant to show
on oath that he had no visible means of support,
ordered his arrest there and then on a charge of
having no visible means of support.
Sing the song of the five-starred eross,
Hung low o’er Southern Seas ;
Then tell about our frightful loss
From coughs and colds and sneeze ;
Again, again, let voices ring
In one great, grand bravure,
To praise the magic healing King—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
It was the old, plain-speaking John
Murray who answered the President of the Vic-
torian Employers’ Federation the other day when
he protested against a Wages Board for miners.
“ There is no need for a Board,” said the repre-
sentative of Fat; “ they get a shilling an hour,
roughly speaking.” “Would you go below for £1
an hour?” said Murray. Then Fat changed the
subject.
THE RIGHT HAND AND THE LEFT
HAND.
The physical virtues and the patriotic enthusiasm of
the men of Riverina were extolled by Mr. Chanter. He
said they were born to the saddle ; they are used to all
kinds of weather. Times out of number they have ap-
plied to be enrolled as a squadron of Light H'orse, or
some other mounted corps. A letter, thanking the
men for their patriotism, was received. That was noU
wanted. Action was required. “ There is no money,’
interposed Mr. Joseph Cook.
L.B. : “A penny to buy some soldiers of my own.”
Jok Chook : “ Impossible. Dead broke!”
“Hamer”: The Clerks’ Union movement
is spreading swiftly all over Australasia. Unions
have been established in Adelaide, Auckland
(M.L.), Wellington (M.L.), and a number of
smaller Damp Island centres; also in Perth
and Hobart. The Brisbane union, formed about
six months ago, is reaching out for a Wages
Board; and the Sydney union is booming,
under the bitter hostility of Wade, and raking in
new members daily. Come to think of it, quite a
lot of things do boom under the bitter hostility of
Wade.
The Victorian; Government’s fancy for a
State-owned coal-mine at Powlett River is suffer-
ing from great exhaustion. A while back it looked
as if John Weary’s Ministry meant business ;
but it has been doing nothing with so much energy
and persistence that P. Enterprise is getting im-
patient. P. Enterprise has all along been aching
to get its claws into the field ; and it now begins
to mildly suggest that it might be allowed to per-
form a public duty, and provide along-suffering
people with abundance of cheap coal. Such a
thing as dividends hasn’t, of course, entered its
unselfish head. And the longer John Weary con-
tinues his present policy of doing nothing, the
better the chances will be that P. Enterprise, the
whole-hog philanthropist, will score in the end.
The dull process of stoutly asserting that
black is white is the last refuge of the dishonest
all the world over. Last week a petition from,
the Victorian Employers’ Federation was pre-
sented to the Victorian Assembly urging members
to vote against the Closer Settlement Bill. The
most astonishing part of the document happened
where it asserted that the compulsory clause was
unnecessary because good old Private Enterprise
was doing as much sub-dividing and closer-
settling as the country could stand. If the land
question had not been so much in the limelight of
late, and if there had been no statistics available,
there might have been a suspicion that the Feder-
ation had merely ignorantly rushed in with an
honest but incorrect assertion. But the bones of
the Victorian land trouble are so plain, and the
footprints of the departed farmers are so fresh,
that there can be no suspicion of ignorance. The
petition was simply a loud yell of prevarication,
and the only matter for astonishment is that men
who claim to be considered intelligent should have
emitted it.
GEORGE IN A NEW ROLE.
Speaking at a meeting of the Sydney Jewish Literary
and Debating Society, George Reid said that he would
like to become a member of the synagogue. He was a
Scotchman, however, and it had been said that there was
a strong resemblance between the two. “I think,” he
said, “that I shall ask the Rabbi if there isn’t a gate
open for me.”
As they entered the hall in Sydney for
the Chamber of Commerce Congress the delegates
were confronted with a huge scroll— “ One Flag,
one Fleet, one Throne. Britons, hold your own.”
Then they took their seats, pushed their blotting-
pads into place, and grabbed each a pencil stamped
“ Made in Austria.”
A casual extract from the proceedings of
the recent “ Congress of Chambers of Commerce
of the Empire,” held at Sydney :
Mr. Joseph Dixon (Sheffield Chamber of Commerce)
moved :
“That this congress is of opinion that the system in
force in Westralia, South Australia and Maoriland
of charging- income tax upon profits resulting from
business transactions in these colonies by British com-
mercial travellers and agents is very prejudicial to British
trade, and that such tax ought to be discontinued.”
Mr. Dixon explained that under the present system the
British trader was called upon to pay income tax twice
over. He not only paid the tax in Australia, but he had
to pay it again in England. Such a thing was prejudicial
to trade.
In that case, the questions naturally arise: (1)
Why did Britain begin the nefarious practice?
(2) Why doesn’t Britain leave it off? (3) Why
is Bull so dishonest as to charge income-tax in
England on profits earned in Australia? J. Bull
once carried the thing so far as to try to collect
income-tax not only on the profits of any business
done by an Australian company at its little
branch office in London, but also on all the profits
it made in Australia as well.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough Rem-
edy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite with
mothers everywhere.*
THE DEMORALISING EFFECT OF THE OSTRICH
HABIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He never realised what the British command of the sea
really meant until he engaged in that trip.— " Doctor
Ward, of Sydney Telegraph.
The greatest editor is he
Who trains each thinking cell,
So that he sees when he should see—
When all the facts fit well.
The wisest editor, y'ou’ll find,
Of all the thinking throng
Is he who goes extremely blind
When all the facts are wrong.
Now he who props a falling cause
Like Freetrade, I surmise,
And is a medico of laws
Must be both great and wise.
Therefore, he sees when all is well,
And doesn’t when it’s not,
Because he’s trained each thinking cell
For sense or simple rot.
’ Self-hypnotised, he proves at will
That black is virgin white ;
Long years he practises until
He comes to think he’s right.
Then all is well; his agile brain
O’er rocky' places vaults ;
And, if he would come back again,
He lightly somersaults.
' But turning Reason inside out—
Rightly the sport of Youth —
Brings on short-sightedness and doubt
And mars the hunt for Truth.
The fact long balanced on its head
Is difficult to place
When you require the thing instead
To look well on its base.
And facts seem hardly facts at all
When many y'ou have blinked.
And said the writing on the wall
Was wrong—or indistinct.
Then plain statistics in a row
Convey no picture true ;
Romance lives in each folio
Of ev’ry book of blue.
To be “ impressed ” —to “ realise,”
’Tis necessary’ then
To gaze on things with startled ey'es,
And peer and gaze again.
Then home you come with knowledge packed,
And serve from out your store,
With pride and joy, some simple fact
That all men knew before.
N.S.W.
FOE.
AN EPITAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whilst Bent was living on this earth
The man’s misdeeds provoked disgust
From them who praise the “ sterling worth ”
Of Bent committed to the dust.
Political and social crimes
Were rightly laid upon his head.
Must we forget the olden times
Because he’s dead?
VICTORIA.
K.


SUMMER 1909 CATALOG
li
vs*
tsss
e
»»
///
N
.' v v
I/ll
m
r.
-'K
"■‘III
\\
5^
fc.
Jps^-
***
■'• '• 0 >
<g«
rTIiKPP®
x- =
A,
w
Buckley s- Nunn Ltd.
-•The Greatest Hail Order Mouse in Australia
MELBOURNE, S.E., VICTORIA.
p /p imy
psy
Manufacturers
gr Direct
Suppliers
to the Public
Before buying' a Piano looß
into the merits of tbe
“MIGNON”
It possesses a sweet, deep, mellow tone admired
by musicians.
Only the very best quality of material used in
' its construction.
Built to stand the test of time and hard use, it
will last a lifetime.
Made to win and to wear, and to give perfect
satisfaction in every instance.
Is a great favorite and famous throughout the
States of the Commonwealth.
It is manufactured specially for the Australian
climate.
MIGNON PIANOS please everybody; they have
no equal at the price.
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE ON APPLICATION.
Most moderate Extended Payments arranged.
Old Instruments taken in part payment.
Sole Agents
NICHOLSON & Co. Ltd.
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
- EDUCATION-
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence Cstt
Can Train You —By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough arid
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our sygtem, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
172 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
Brookman’s Chambers, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
AT LAST
A Standard Typewriter at a Reasonable Price.
m
■
3
««»>
i'YM
iilp?
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
Keyboard.
Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light 'Pouch.
Portable.
W Built for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
Weight i2lb.
THE BRITON
NEW MODEL NEW OFFER.
This typewriter is too well known to need lengthy description. It is the
ideal writing machine. Simple, never gets out of order, even with the
heaviest work. It will take as many carbon copies as you require, and will
cut a perfect stencil. You can pay more money for your typewriter, but
you cannot buy more real honest typewriter value.
We ship this machine, charges prepaid, to any town in Australasia, give
you ten days’ free - trial, warrant it for two years. When you have tried
it, remit to us 10s., and it is yours. If you want to pay in instalments
we charge 10s. extra.
Write to-day, giving references, and ask us to ship a BRITON to you
for 10 days’ free trial.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cor. GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
17 Queen St., Melbourne ; 364 Queen St., Brisbane ; 131 King William
St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Hobart; 17 Grey St.. Wellington, N.Z.


The
Favorite Liqueur
Hccriivg.
Peter F
BRANDY
CHERRY
TO CURE DANDRUFF.
Do you know that dandruff is the lining of the hair
follicles sl'.ed through inflammation due to scalp disease ?
Unfortunately dandruff is so common that familiarity
has bred contempt for it in most people’s minds ; but it is
very unwise to neglect the warning it gives of future
sea'ntv locks and baldness.
Mrs. Cowling, of the Hygeia Institute, is most success-
ful in the treatment of dandruff and falling hair She
goes to the root of the trouble, cures the diseased con-
ditions, restores scalp health, and it is quitewonderful
how she makes the hair grow.
Patients may have free consultations every day but
Saturday between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
evening from 6to 7. Those who cannot go and See
her personallv should write, enclosing 3d. in stamps, and
she will send an instructive booklet “ n^ t iff,*
monials. The address is—MRS. COWLING, HYGEIA
INSTITUTE. Ocean House, opposite Government
Savings Ba.k, Moore Street, Sydney.
■/m
\A
V3f
IT
The missus put her head in
the kitchen door last night and
said, “ 1 wish you’d keep this
door shut—the smell of food’s
in the hall and all over the house,
and it’s simply dreadful” —and yet
‘‘poor me,” 1 has to work in it all
day—but of course that
matter —sometimes it makes me
feel a bit off, but it’s wonderful
how a nice hot cup of tea
freshens one up—and 1 don’t
care what anybody thinks, 1 just
puts on the kettle and makes
myself a cup whenever l feels
so disposed.
There’s only one tea I’ll drink,
and that’s Robur —the No. 1
Grade —it’s real wholesome tea —
it doesn’t play up with your
nerves —it doesn’t give you
indigestion like lots of stuff 1 ve
had to drink at some of the
houses I’ve been cookin’ at one
time and another—some missus s
complain and say it’s too good
for kitchen tea, but says 1, if it
ain’t worth while to give
servants a good cup o’ tea it
ain’t worth while havin’ servants
at all.
The Cook.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BUCK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 21, 1909.
My Dear Arint.—
There has been much society and no solitude in
Sy ney during tlie past and passing week. It has
1 t-n a week of the motor-car, the third personsingu-
ir and the Chamber of Commerce. Everywhere I
turn I meet an English trade magnate, gener-
allv accompanied by a dowdy lady. Only those
who have been successful at the game of commerce
were sent hereward by their respective Chambers,
and these delegates, speaking at an incredible num-
ber of meetings, have not been so successful at
telling how the game ought to be played as they
have been at playing it. They irresistibly remind
me. in their demeanor and appearance, of the
gentlemen who were associated with Mr. Pickwick.
“He [Pickwick] was a humble individual.”
(“No, no.”) “Still he could not but feel that
they [his Chamber] had selected him for a service
of great honor and some danger. Travelling was
in a troubled state, and the minds of coachmen
were unsettled. Let them look abroad and con-
template the scenes which were enacting around
them. Stage coaches were upsetting in all direc-
tions, horses were bolting, boats were overturning,
and boilers were bursting.” The Congressmen
talk after that way in spots, only not so humor-
ously. ,
Last week the Governor-General pair of Ex-
cellencies gave the delegates an evening party at
Federal Government House. There was an
atmosphere of “cheer up, old chap, you 11 soon be
dead ” about the gathering. The noble earl him-
self looked a cheerful Cherokee in comparison
with the drab buckram faces of our visitors. One
of them remarked to a group, mainly of himself,
that “steam was almost an Englishman.” They
were talking shop, and after that bright remark
the bunch brightened visibly. If only an Aus-
ralian squatter had come along with, “ And wool
is almost a god,” there might have been a Pick-
wickian scene. Somehow it all reminded me of
the scene at Dr. Blirnber’s party, when one gentle-
man darkly asked the other, “What if Russia
stepped in with her tallows?” which was a deep
saying, and completely floored the person ad-
dressed.
Peeress Dudley gave the visitors a diamond and
ruby display—crown, collar, necklet and strings
of jewels looping the loop and festooning the pale
cream of her lace corsage. A bright pink wide
satin belt swathed the slenderest grown-up waist
in the Commonwealth, and a bunch of azaleas of
the same cheerful hue was worn on the left side.
Pink is this Peeress’s favorite color to accompany
white at night. And she was quite prettily pink
of face, and so between the glow of rubies and
waist-belt and azaleas the lady took a cheerful
bright pink adieu of public functions for the next
two or three months.
Dame Albert Spicer, whose husband is presi-
dent of the London Chamber of Commerce, has
been a pretty woman in her day, and to-day
would look prettier if she would do her hair
instead of letting it do her. Her grey gown was
Empire as to body and angelic as to sleeves.
Why long pieces of drapery hanging from the
shoulders, and not sleeves at all, are called angel
sleeves must puzzle the angels. Perhaps they are
really meant for wings. There was an epidemic
of goose-grev garbings amongst our own women.
Mavoress Allen Taylor. Mrs; «ore-Ruthveil,'
Mrs. Premier Wade, and Mrs. Motor car Preston
wore the tranquil undertone of color so dear to the
Puritans.
Mrs. S. W. Moore helped the late wet spring
with mignonette-green garniture. Mrs. Column
Burke was crowned with one of the new jet, Spiky
crowns, and clothed in something rose and gold
and glistening. Mrs. Earp proved how prettily
pink-floss rosc3 may clamber over a white-satin
gown, and Mrs. Marich was in something intri-
cately black and white worn with a brilliant
smile.
State Excellencies the Chelmsfords gave their
first water party last Saturday at Cranbrook.
Their cards of invitation bade 2000 persons to a
garden party, and doubtless it was intended to be
such. And now even after the function on which
the rain poured is one with Susa and Sidon, the
press backs up the baseless fabric of a dream by
reporting it as a garden party. Judging by the
people I saw coming and going, it was an aqua-
rium or a regatta or a tadpole or something wet of
the sort. But as every one was able to swim, or
had had first-aid to the drowning rendered in
time, no harm was done except to clothes.
I see that the heir to the Duke of Braganza,
Pretender to the throne of Portugal, was
safely married to a plain American Miss
in Scotland last week. It is described as
“the first royal wedding that has taken
place in the “Home of the Bagpipes since
the days of the Stuarts”; which is a dismal
reminder that even the best record gets broken at
last. The girl who is willing to take a Pretender
for better or worse—usually worse—in lieu of a
genuine ruler or heir-apparent, needs to choose
her Pretender with care. In Morocco the
applicant for the royal job, if captured, is added
to the local Zoo and has a cage next the
hyena. In whiter lands, so long as he
refrains from whooping up a revolution, he is
allowed to stand moodily in the background at
State functions and glower ; but he mustn’t glower
too hard, or he is exiled to an expensive foreign
hotel, where he dies of rich food. The main duty
of the Pretenderess is to order the dinner and
minister to the vanity of the false-alarm monarch.
It is a sour grapes sort of life, and a proud woman
of healthy temperament would probably prefer to
mate with a vigorous, manly greengrocer. The
Pretender stayed for a month at the Union Club
in this city a few years back, accompanied by a
younger brother of the bridegroom above-men-
tioned. He proved to be a genial old party with
a liking for cards, cigarettes and his ease. The
son won much renown, and shed a quantity of
blood as an expert pigeon shot. The parent was
known by his rightful style, but the son elected
for some unexplained reason to be called the
“ Count de Neiva.”
Mrs. Sandeman Collum convened a meeting at
Baumann’s rooms last week for the delightful
purpose of inaugurating an annual flower carnival
somewhat similar to those that obtain in Italy
and at Monte Carlo and New Orleans. Mrs.,
Suttor presided over the gathering, which took,
most kindly to the fragrant innovation after Mr.
Gosche’s explanation of it. As Shakspeare says'
in one of his wilder moments, “more anon.” ;
Mrs. Collum will doubtless see her floral dream
materialise.
The Baron and Baroness Zezza di Zapponeta
achieved a son in Buenos Ayres last week. The,
baroness was Miss Pattie More, a daughter of the,
Sydney Laidley Mort family. Her husband, aril
exquis tely-dressed foreign person, was here on,
business a year ago.
I note that the late American railroad king’
Harriman has left his entire fortune of between
10 and 40 millions (English money) to his wife.
The exact amount is not yet ascertained, and the'
poor lady’s outlook must give her trouble. If
only ten millions are coming to her she will have
a struggle, and perhaps have to take in plain,
sewing. There is no old-age pension in theU.S.
If 40 millions arrive she may live very comfortably
in the land where the eagle screams so deafeningly
when he catches a Pole.
Which reminds me that an infant born at Syd-
ney last week has been named Peary Pole.:
Budget is the name given to an English baby,
whose parents are rabid Liberals. Thus do
adults misuse the mewling puking infant.,
When Budget Smith gro\vs up he should have a
word or two to say to his old man.
Amy Castles—her fame is now such that she
doesn’t require to be called “Miss” any longer
is (with the commercial visitors and Foster.
Eraser) a breaker of the stagnation that had
weighed upon Sydney like a wet, grey
horserug. Mr. and Mrs. Michael Meagher,
of Bathurst, opened the fusillade of enter-
tainment of the star with a lunch that
showed a fine perception of the science of
callsesthetics (a good word that). The table was a,
harmony of white and pink double peach blossom
on primrose silk, and the menu materialised as
food prepared by cultivated intelligences, not
merely as provisions or rations. About 30 star-
worshippers or star-gazers were at the blossom-
strewn table. The hosts had selected their guests
as adroitly as an artist hangs his pictures. Thq
Cardinal sat opposite the singer, and on hissacred
left was the astute worldling, Lord Richard
Nevill. The Rev. Gordon Tidy, who saves the
High Church soul at St. James’s, looked from one
end of the long table to a Melbourne “ Wallaby, .
who was Mr. Gibbs, at the other end. The
women present were mainly of the section known
as Society, and there were a medical man or two;
and a doctor of divinity or so, a barrister of sorts;
anda few press persons. The wisdomqf'the serpent
or the Meaghers was shown in the fusion of parties*
And all the time the modest little guest-in-chief
answered questioners who sought to learn all of
her musical progress since she was here severji
years ago. The girl has been so much in Ger-
many, and has sung so much in the Bismarck
language, that she has some Germanisms in her
speech. The diamond ring she wears on a dis;-
engaged finger was given her by the dowager
Queen of Holland. She is to appear in opera
when she returns to Europe, and has engagements
that will keep her steadily at work for three
years. “-Seven years’ absence from my people
and Australia is bad enough ” (she shows
good white teeth in a smile as she says
this), “but if I had not come back now
it would have meant ten, and that wouldn’t bear
thinking on.” She shakes her head, and the
black velvet Apache hat quivers. She didn’t
know until she was told that it was an Apachq
hat. It is huge of crown, wide and flat of brim,
with a rakish ostrich feather. Amy Castles looks
her best when hatless and decolettS frocked. At
her first concert her princess gown of dawn-pink
charmeuse, embroidered with blister pearls and
fish scales, was an artistic sartorial accompani-
ment to her singing.
Her voice, full grown now and full-orbed, if the
phrase be allowed, has the freshness of an early
summer day after rain, and carries rare tones that
suggest spring violets and the humming of bees.
The personal charm, too, has developed ; it is
persuasive and childlike. There is nothing sug-
gestive of the footlights about her save her self-
possession. With her operatic excerpts she
scored splendidly, and the audience capitulated
unconditionally with the final notes of “Ah fors e
lui.” Personally speaking. I don’t want to hear
the Castles again in any more Willeby ballads.
Let the cows eat the “Baby Clover,” and persons
with large feet walk in “ The Perfect Way, and
girls with nice little average voices sing those
little songs.
As the last nail is being driven into the roof of
this Letter Miss Castles is the guest of Mrs. J. C-
Williamson, who is holding an extensive reception
at the Australia in her honor. On Sunday the
melody-maker had a scented time at the Frank
Coffee palace at Chatswood, with its millions of
roses. That's not an exaggeration. One may
become rose-doped now at Iroquois. If I owned
the garden I would sell this Letter to the highest
bidder, and go in for making attar of roses. It
brings any money you like to ask an ounce. As
for the cost of a pound of it, I don’t believe there
ever was a pound all at once.
Peer and Peeress Dudley had promised to be
present at the first Castles concert, and the red
carpet was out and six chairs had been isolated qr
quarantined for the distinguished party. But He
and She had reckoned without their doctor. Re-
member what Kipling said in a recent speech
before some medical congress or dinner ? Some-
thing to the effect that only kings and doctors
may exceed the speed limit in a motor-car.
The doctor may raise a flag in a swarming
neighborhood and turn it into a solitude, or
he may hoist another flag in a desert
and transform it into a sanctuary towards which
men will crawl even on their hands and knees. I
quote from memory, and perhaps incorrectly, bht
anyhow if a medical person may do all that, he
may stop an emperor or a Federal Excellency
from going to a concert. And he did. Further
be has ordered that she shall not go into sdciety
again till lie says she may. By way of compensa-
tion, Lord Richard Nevill, Captain and Mrs. Hore
Rutiiven and Captain Gilliat came along and
sat in the chairs of the rich and the great- 'Un
Wednesday (to-morrow) Miss Castles will sing tor
the Dudley Excellencies at Government House.
Mr Burns-Walker will give a vocal recital at
the Y.M.C.A. Hall on Sept. 30, to introduce
two new singers, Miss Bessie Mylor-Burge
(soprano) and Mr. Thomas Middleton (baritone).
The debutante girl is she to whom Melba recently
gave a lesson and warm encouragement. Mr.
Middleton has already caused some buzz through
being heard and overheard at his maestro’s studio.
His voice is fine, and his appearance isn t the
opposite.
Don’t forget that Hugh McCrae’s beautiful book
isto be had from Mr. LaneMullensatChallisHouse.
Lords Beauchamp and Chelmsford, Prof. Baldwin
Spencer of Melbourne, and Miss Kyffin Thomas
of S. Australia have sent for copies.
B. R. Wise is a useful advertisement for the
Sydney climate these days. He left England six
months ago convalescent after a serious illness,
but bearing dreary traces of the ordeal he had
passed through. A peaceful term at the Rose
Bay Golf Club has resulted in the addition of two
stone to his weight, and he is set up generally.,
Now he walks six miles morning and evening,
and battles hard and successfully in the Law
Courts between whiles. His wife is in their Lon-
don flat superintending the launching in business
of the Wise son and heir.
Heedlessness regarding names makes for trouble,
not to say the Divorce Court betimes. I see
that the suspicions of a recent petitioner
were first aroused when her husband called
her Nelly—which wasn’t her name—and seemed
confused about it. She instituted a search
for Nelly, and was successful. A few years
back a man transpired in a M.L. case who
apparently never was able to remember his wife s
proper name. He called her Mary, Mabel, Ethel,
Josephina, Muriel or any other old name that
suggested itself ; and when his wife investigated
and discovered that there was a Mary, also a
Mabel, Ethel, Josephina and Muriel, she took her
troubles to the usual place and got relief. Your
really shrewd Juan or Juanita makes a rigid
practice of never calling the loved one by his or her
own name, but rather by some general term of affec-
tion, Sjuch as “Dear Heart” (c.f. a recent
cause cdlebre) or something of that sort. Thus is,
at any rate, one potential source of trouble
flattened out and rendered quite nugatory.
Iversons who are wrestling with double chins
and increasing waist-girths should stop away from
Monaro air. On the other hand, those desiring
to cushion their corners should seek that specific.
Mr. “Pip” Caro, son of a recently-deceased
well-known citizen, who 12 weeks ago went into
the vast spaces with engineering designs, is back
here for a few days, carrying one stone nine
pounds avoirdupois’ more than he took away. It
really can’t pay to take paying guests up Monaro
way.
Last week most respectable-looking sheep
carcases were for sale in a butcher’s shop in
Lower George-street, and a placard announced
that a whole sheep would be delivered free
for Is. 3d.
I will be immensely, abjectly—l can’t express
how much I will be obliged if the gentleman who
took by mistake an autograph book from the Town
Clerk’s room at the Town Hall last week will
restore it either to me at Thk Boj.letin office, or
to Mr. Nesbitt, the Town Clerk. The .book,
which contains some valuable autographs, belongs
to Mrs. (Dr.) Otto Wunderlich, and has her
name on the inside cover. It was taken
to the Town Hall and handed into the
Town Clerk’s room what time the aldermen
and a few M’s.P. and other folk were welcoming
Mr. Foster Fraser on the morning of Monday
week. Mr. Foster Fraser wrote his distinguished
name in it, and its afterwards is shrouded in mys-
tery. As the book was in my possession up to
within an hour or so of its disappearance, I
naturally feel as if my conscientious fur had been
stroked in the wrong direction. I beg you not to
see your Akenehi arrested for larceny as a bailee.
I met a girl lately who was one of an Aus-
tralian party that toured Maori land last summer.
“ What struck you most there?” was the ungram-
matical question put to her. “A girl who
chumtned up with us,” was the reply. “ She was
a Maorilander, and was along with us for five
weeks. She had two serviceable skirts and six
cambric shirts, and was the freshest-looking
thing in the Island. A patent iron, a spirit lamp,
a cake of white soap and some starch were the
means behind the freshness. These were always
in her travelling kit, and she ‘ did ’ her shirts in
her bedroom overnight and put on a spotless one
every morning and often another of an afternoon.
Everyone who got English letters oy last mail
is telling how the writers complain of the heat.
One would think, from the adjectives used and the
sufferings chronicled, that the writers wrote from
Bourke in midsummer. Yet the English summer
started only last month, after rivers of rain during
June and July ; but when they get a hot week the
inhabitants make more fuss than our people up at
Thursday’s tropic isle.
When ancient Egypt was at the height of its
glory the cat was worshipped as a god, and was
worth more than a king's ransom. Since then,
pussy has fallen on evil days, and has had much old
boot'and broken brick hurled at her. It appears,
however, that she is coming into her own again.
A Persian, named Rob Roy TI., has just been sold
in England to a lady in the Land of the Wooden
Ham for 100 guineas. So far that’s the record
price for Tabby ; though if you want a six weeks’
old kitten of this high pedigreed variety it will
cost you as a rule anything from two to 25 guineas.
The name of Rob Roy 11. for a Persian is strangely
out of place. Why not call the animal Darius
Cat ?
For calm insolence you can’t beat the woman
who owns a big dog. Was in a big showroom lately,
and roaming round, sniffing at the chiffons, were
four dogs. Their various owners seemed to think
it quite an honor for the brutes to patronise the
spring show. The agonised glances of the show-
room ladies when Fido and Skido commenced
growling at each other were masked by ghastly
grins. Before I left, a dog as big as the Public
Debt was frisking round a costume stand begging
the four guinea wax lady to take him out fora
walk or give him a bone. A fox terrier and a
mastiff were settling arrangements for a future
meeting. Also a sheepdog was trying to pull
down a coat, and he did get it on. the floor.
Here a maddened shop-walker interfered, and
shooed him out. But I suppose if that sort of
thing happened often the dog-lady would take her
custom and her canine elsewhere.
A man spake thus to me yester week : “ Since
the Directoire became the fashion I have been
jeering at it. Every new gown and big hat my
wife got gave fresh impetus to my scoff. She
follows the Lights of Paris pretty closely, you
know, although she draws the line at frocks slit
up the side. I used to tell her that the present
stvle is the most ungraceful and crazy that ever
was, and she—well she never bothered to argue.
She merely said, ‘Yon don’t know what you are
talking about. ’ And she was right. I took her to
a Tivoli matintZe, and one of the turns showed
three sisters (I forget what they call themselves)
singing: and posing in the costumes of three
periods. One girl was dressed back to about the
time of Ed. III.; the next was? of 50 years ago,
and the third was up to the minute of this year.
The ancient history girl’s gown must have been
invented to cover club feet or the like, and she
wore an enormous megaphone or funnel, quite
3ft. long, on her head, with floating drapery
from the top. The second wore a huge
crinoline, white stockings and a little pork-
pie hat with a wing in it. My wife re-
marked that the two past fashions were hideously
inartistic.” I agreed, but mumbled something
about the possibility of their being exaggerated
for stage purposes. She settled me by saying that
when she went to a fancy-dress ball as a lady of
the blankth century she got the correct propor-
tions of her megaphone toque and her frock from
a historv of women’s dress, and it was quite as
bad as 'that. ‘And as for the hoop and pork-
pie,’ she said. ‘ You know that portrait of vour
mother taken when she was about eighteen it is
just like that other, even to the ugly, inadequate
little parasol.’ ”
Yours affectionately,
AKRNNEHI.


j msixOjJ *oog V"H"9‘0"0
■rn
f
sras®'"
is
?b
s>&
II
fiW|£
m
M
/
t\i
U
v
/
m
mcm
mm
! M
x
*y
mm
Q
?
Q?
-iv
m
pm i
\
X
iff®
:' )■ 7 &
mi mi%
II
*•'l3 ?
■■
■StA-t' t;
II
flfcs
Jmp 8»&.\ cf i '-.
mmm.im<
m
n&
m£m-\
Ml
5$
ttllUi
mmm
k]mi • in
f!
S---NV cvM
‘I?
jrjHlr ; I
m r S',
m
■ :> v-f~ »e• r ‘O
'«V>.>VeO
il*»w
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Puts a gloss
Upon your shoe,
And it stays
Upon the leather
Thro’ all sorts
And kinds of weather;
Here he is
Demanding boots
'ft •
With enthusi-
Astic hoots ;
“COBRA” is the
Stuff he uses
(Wise is he
Who “COBRA” chooses).


ALWAYS ORDER
ft
Whisky and
chweppe
(See Red Seal on Every Bottle.)
Dunlop Police Heel
We have now placed on the
marKet a special heavy Rubber
Heel that will be found to give
excellent wear, besides afford-
ing great comfort and minimis-
ing all jarring. AsK your
bootmaKer to show you a pair.
Specify DUNLOP Police Heel.
• • •
Output now exceeds ton and half weekly.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
ALL STATES and N.Z.
DUNLOP
TYRE-S for
Comfortable
Cycling
m
T_r
ft
rt')W
They absorb Vibration, owing to tbeir
great Resiliency, whilst their fine
wearing qualities render them the
CHEAPEST.
Guaranteed
Beware of Imitations. Exam-
ine Cover and Tube for
Registered Trade Mark**^
Obtainable all Cycle Depots.
gdf
MELBOURNE CHATTER
Melbourne, September 20, 1909.
Mr Dear Yarrik,—
Norman Lindsay’s Show will, according to
present advices, be in Furlong’s studio. It will
be broken open on Tuesday, 28th, by Governor
Carmichael, who takes a keen personal interest
in the collection, especially in the Casanova
drawings. A prominent local stock-broker was
eager to boom it loudly at the Town Hall, and at
his own expense, all for the honor of Australian
art. But the artist, with the shrinking modesty
of his kind, demurred ; and as these things can t
be arranged in a day or so, the scheme is pre-
sumably off.
No one reported a subtle fraction of Governor
Carmichael’s speech at a gathering recently so I
shall. The gentleman who speeched the word of
welcome reproached the Gov. for coming out on
11 such a wet night ” when a cosy fireside would
have great attractions. Carmichael, responding,
remarked that certainly he mostly kept his Thurs-
day evening for the fire and his Bulletin.
Bent, deceased, did many marvellous things in
his career, but nothing more astounding than his
first political jolt when he displaced Higinbotham.
That was almost 40 years ago. Bent was a young
man fed up on the fat—the vegetable fat
of the land. Higinbotham labored under the
delusion that the people wanted a states-
man to help to govern the country at large.
Bent knew people—and Brighton people. He
whispered confidently in their ears about
roads—good new roads—for gardeners, and he
ousted Higinbotham, the prominent statesman of
his day. A man whose memory is clear on the
details of that time says the question which
rooted out the old member concerned lights on
vegetable carts. The burning injury (in a double
sense) among market gardeners was the order
that they should carry lights on their carts as they
rumbled and trundled in to market in the small
dark hours of the morning. Higinbotham treated
the objection with contempt. Bent got the people
their dingy freedom. The crux of the election
hinged on that question of lights or no lights.
Bent’s power grew from his one-of-the-people
stunt. He was hail-fellow-well-met with every
creature in that district. At a Brighton
election every child in the district wore a Bent
card in its hat, and every dog had one hung round
its mongrel neck. In the days when it had not
yet grown fashionable among Australian poli-
ticians for womenfolk to openly canvass in
their man’s interest, Bent’s daughter, known
as Tootles, was a bulwark in the election-
eering. She could ride any horse, and drove a
pair of equine devils. She’d rush round the dis-
trict behind these horses covering as much ground
as a 20-h.p. motor-car, and drag votes up by the
roots.
A most prominent figure always in the thick of
the polling-booth crowds was Helen Hart—that
pioneer suffragette of Australia—with her hair
cut short and wearing a man’s hat, vest, coat and
blucher boots. She had not reached the advanced
point of divided skirts, but her skirt was short
and skimp. She always carried her umbrella into
the thickest of the fight, and round the rim was
a strident placard: “Vote for Bent.”
Moule, that learned man of law, ousted Bent
once, but he soon lost ground. Moule had a cold
habit of merely recognising people that he knew
—there was a lack of the all-embracing smile and
word. Even so, Bent had a big fight to get back
again. At the time it seemed impossible that,
being once defeated, he could ever re-enter Par-
liament. Nevertheless, he got there—then even
grabbed the Premiership. After Moule’s election
Bent made an attempt for a seat —made vacant at
an odd time by a death—in South Melbourne.
He was never even heard. Twice when he took
the Town Hall the mob pelted him with words
and rotten vegetables. He even lost his deposit
—that awful humiliation to a man of political
aspirations.
Bent’s chief characteristic in his young-man
days at Brighton was his usefulness at the local
dance. Dances began early and went on into the
morning hours —until time to start away vvith the
vegetable carts. There was no musician—the
dancers had to depend on a sort of chant from one
of the guests. Bent showed superior prowess in
this. He was able to flaunt “ Hurn-tiddle-e-i-ty.
Hi ti Humph ! ” continuously for hours at a time.
Needless to say his popularity was assured.
Bent and our own Melba were always friends.
Southwell. Melba’s secretary, came over to Mel-
bourne a month ago on a special commission to
see Bent and get his advice about some of Melba’s
business. Southwell saw him continuously for
three days and then left him to go north.
“Goodbye,” he said “I shan’t see you again.”
“Indeed, you don’t dispose of me so lightly,”
said Bent. “You’ll see me for many a day yet.”
After all, Mrs. Staughton has consented to be
president of the Women’s National League this
year. Her health was unequal to the strain, and
her mind was bent on a trip to England for just as
long as another lady seemed likely to fill the bill ;
but when this other one had positively refused to
run for the presidency, Mrs. Staughton yielded
to persuasion. Her medical adviser, seemingly,
gave her a certificate of fitness for the coming
ordeal, the Cold Country waived its claim to her
visit, and now she is nailing her colors to the
mast and leading the Leaguers once more into
the breach. To all intents and purposes, the
salvation of Victoria is assured.
Melbourne femininity has left sociability in the
lurch for the mofnent, and is in an ecstasy of dis-
cussion over fashions for the race season. The
wildly-anguished question is whether the long-
suffered Directoire is still It, or is fading as other
fashionable fig leaves do fade. There never was
so great a lack of reliable prognostication in the
matter of frock. It’s as bad as the weather, or
worse ; a frockeologist seems to be a more uncer-
tain reed than a meteorologist. Some ultfa-fashion-
ahle folk in the happy publicity of amateur
theatricals dared to sport pudgy soft draperies
on the 54th latitude of their sheath-clad
bodies, and anxious ladies, who are either too
plump or two wingy for the straight line, are
forcing drapery fashions that they label “dairy-
maid,” “fishwife,” and similar names. The dis-
cussion of probable gee-gees is as nothing to this
wild fervor of fashion books, fittings and dress-
makery that has gripped the elevated folk of the
town.
Cat gatherings are becoming a craze. Theatri-
cal parties—and not matinee ones either—are
made up altogether of the soft purring sex.
T’other week the ’Murkan Tait madam invited
about 30 of the highest meows in the land
to a Shakspearian show, with taxis and
supper to follow, and they apparently enjoyed
it, even though the party lacked that backbone
which is supplied by the” sterner and balder sex.
Another innovation was the distribution of pre-
sents—small silver puff-boxes that delighted, but
alarmed, the presented ones. It’s a precedent,
and other people will have to do the same. There
was quite a flurry in the pussy camp after the
show. If ’Murkan ideas that think in millions
are instituted in local high life that spends in
hundreds, where will the bill end and who’ll pay
it? Presents are becoming anything but spon-
taneous gifts. Christenings and marriages
drag out the conventional but unwilling
purse, and now luncheon parties carry presents as
certainly as they do knives and forks and other
paraphernalia of civilisation. Also I’ve just dis-
covered one of the reasons for the popularity of
the debutantes’ set at a high ball—the reason why
old birds with feathers rubbed off pose as
fluffy bird lets. It’s not only for the glory of a
second youth but because of the presents that are
attached to the function.
Melbourne’s “Royal” Golf Club must be a
prosperous concern. It has about 700 “whole”
members, whose 10 guineas entrance fee entitles
them to pay an annual subscription of five guineas.
There were 1500 entrants of mixed sex for the
annual tournament, and each entrant paid half-a-
crown. Also, the club has a commissariat depart-
ment, which supplied dinners and teas to the
multitude at remunerative prices during the
recent two weeks’ picnic.
The Victorian Women’s League had its first
annual meeting in the Independent Hall last
Friday. There was a large and frilly gathering,
with the Carmichael lady in the lead. Solicitor
Fink chairmanned the meeting, or backed it up in
some such official capacity. He made the grave
mistake of drawling a long speech. No woman
can listen long to a man speaking solus, unless he
happens to be her not-quite-bagged jian<:6 or her
very new acquisition in the way of a husband.
The back seats began to empty as Fink droned
along, for the woman who was near the door
softly gathered up her skirts and made a velvet-
footed break for freedom.
One of the last of the bachelor Boyds joined the
benedicts last week. It was “Monty” Boyd
who did it, and he was married to Miss Evelyn
Newberry on Wednesday at St. Mark’s. All
swamped with white flowers was the altar of
sacrifice, and half a hundred guests went along to
crumble wedding cake and drink the health of the
parties implicated at Ohio, Malvern-road. Two
blue bridesmaids, Teasie Panton and Ida New-
berry, had their share of the honors. Best-man
White and groomsman Pen Boyd made speeches,
and were carried home in a hansom after the
severe mental effort. Two small scraps of rela-
tionship in dainty white frill held up the hem of
the bridal gown, which was a something for a dress-
creator to dream over.
Miss Merlin Young, the most juvenile daughter
of the late George Young, one time of the House
of Rich Landlords, was married on Wednesday to
barrister Leo Cussen. The ceremony was in the
Church of the Immaculate Conception at
Glenferrie, and a small crowd of relatives
celebrated the occasion by a taxi party to
the Vienna in the afternoon. The newly-weds
then rushed the express for Sydney and sunshine.
A sister, a newly-wed of a few months’ mooning,
came down from Brisbane for the event, and
another sister in South Africa sent news of her
engagement as an announcement for the wedding
breakfast speeches. Weddings have been an
epidemic in the family. Two other sisters were
married recently, and mamma, who was a widow,
caught the infection and got married also. The
sister who is making preparations to marry her
military Big Gun in South Africa and a bachelor
brother, still uncaught, are all of the family that
is still running loose, so to speak.
The beginning of the season that revolves most
giddily in Melbourne has a sort of opening wedge
in Henley-upon-Yarra. Committees are in full
buzz getting ready to Hen, and the athletic youth
of the city leaps from his high stool at five and
rushes to do his practice row on a river which is
gradually growing beautiful —in spiteof innuendoes
from jealous sister States.
The Government of Victoria is “requesting the
honor ” for Monday evening (27th) at State Parlia-
ment House to meet the delegates of the Seventh
Congress of the Chambers of Commerce of the
Empire.
The Findon Harriers on Saturday ran muchly
to a man meet. It -was windy and cold, and the
Carmichael lady set the weak example of staying
in town to an indoor show. Important Ones
who had neither left for Sydney nor stayed
at home, disguised themselves mostly in a Polar
rig-out, and kept a sharp eye on the
motor enclosure. The Master Miller crowd
were in strong evidence, and the Miller s daughter,
Mrs. Currie, waved a windy osprey out of her furs
to show she was there. The Emmertons, mamma
and girlie, were probably the most striking out-
side the fur-buried lot—the daughter in grey and
a flat lid, and mamma in a drawn-silk hat and a
juvenile-looking gown the color of strawberry
pulp. The Wrixon lady, looking cold in
purple, had her youngest son Mel to escort
her. One of the Henty women-folk made
herself uncomfortable in a hat built up
off her head underneath from the face.
It was conspicuous in these days of squashed
headgear flattened over the ears. The increase of
extinguisher characteristics in top-gear is raising
a wail from women who blewed their money on
millions of curls. (In case a man should read this,
let me whisper that those curly curlettes were
much too tedious to be built every day ; they were
just bought.) Hairdressers chuckle because curl-
ettes are doomed and useless, and the soft creatures
of the human species must come to them for switches.
One’s hair is swathed now—bound round in flat
bands. There is no glimmer of hope for her-of-
little-hair —no prospect of fluffing or pads. She
must fall back on the übiquitous expensive switch.
Anyhow, this is strange talk for a windy day out
of doors, because no hair could be seen under
turned-down, peach-basket hats. There was a
touch of wild excitement in the second race, when
young Grice —one of the Jim Grice sons—had a
fall. Dad ran wildly from the stand right round
the course toward his son, and sister Nancy did a
sprint from another direction ; but the boy was
not seriously hurt after all.
Florrie Young, of the youthful voice, stayed
out rather late playing bridge one night last
week. Taxi-kebbing it home in the cool early
hours, the vehicle leaped suddenly sideways to
dodge a tiger or a p’leeceman or something,
skidded on the tram line, and over went taxi,
Florrie and all. The driver flew 1474 ft., hut was
unhurt; and though Levy of Inverleith, who was
escorting the lady home, didn’t fly quite so tar,
he also escaped injury. But Miss Florrie gave a
chance to her understudy by badly damaging a
rib and getting on the shelf for a week or more.
Geach, the lately wed, is in Melbourne for a
few days, diffusing radiance round the new \v est
picture theatre. The effulgence was so great that
it played up with the dynamo of the electric
plant, and a fused wire kept the packed
house sitting on tenterhooks for a solid
hour before the show would gee again.
In the meantime, the band played its durnedest
and the management and all its minions knelt
prayerfully behind the screen, looking tor the
leak. One enthusiast even offered himself as a
burnt sacrifice, to “ hold a connection for the
honor of the show and the holiday of the Romans
in the auditorium. After 60 minutes, when the
orchestra had exhausted its brightest selections
and was mopping an anxious brow, the man with
the megaphone uttered a joyous and melo-
dramatic shout, “We’ve found the leak!
The missing link or the North Role
were as nothing to this discovery. Ihe
show began, and the extra-special first-night
films were rushed through without a breath for
interval. So very few people were able to peace-
ably admire the new supper lounge and refresh-
ment rooms. The new ball is a huge thing of
many tons’ displacement, with areal red theatrical
curtain and a balcony faced by the best possible
thing in theatrical approach-stairs. Pitt, that
builder of many theatres, was responsible for the
job, and the humpy was thrown together in a
mere matter of ten weeks.
At Rickards’, three supple damsels in black silk
tights—the Trapnell sisters-do tricky somer-
saults nightly to a chorus of plaudits from boxed
baldheads and more or less hairless people in the
orchestra stalls. The tricksters appear young, and
are as slick in their handsprings as street boys.
To vary their monkey tricks, the curved Amazons
play a game with a slender brother, and catch the
bounding one on hand, shoulder and various other
parts of their anatomy as if he were the ball in a
game of rounders with the curate. The baldheads
pretend to go to the dogs, which is the next turn
on the programme. In the dog show a lady
named Rosina, who wears an Early British black
velvet regal cloak, towers over a baker’s dozen of
soft puppies with microscopic tails and squeaky
barks, and forces them to laboriously do deeds
that the last instalment of trick cats simply
waltzed through. I have a dark suspicion that
it’s not the dogs the baldheads go to see.
“The Silver King” acted like magic on Satur-
day at the Princess’s, and drew a rushed house.
Some old things can never be too old. litheradge
in his old part made one realise the reason why
the play was such a power in former days. The
house had not an inch of space left, from gods to
pjt—not room for the living skeleton from the
waxworks or the Cook-Peary claim to the North
Pole. Society has made a break for Sydney and
the races, but it left no gaps in the stalls.
The Maddens upheld the front row in fixed state.
Mummer Waller, boxed with Mrs. Burgess and
pretty daughter Vera, watched Mrs. Waller hug
Titheradge at intervals on the stage; Mrs.
Waller makes a most appealing Nellie—fragile
and quiet, and good to look upon. Dorothy
Grimston works her sensational jewel scene in a
startling kimona of blue and Storks’ portraits and
straight flowing blue-black hair, like Judith
There’s not much frocking in “The Silver King,'
but the women in the audience would scarcely see
a frock if it were there. They indulge in an epic
of Weep all through the play, and thoroughly
enjoy themselves that way.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The Port Adelaide Racing Club ran rings round the
Cheltenham course the other Saturday, to the accom-
paniment of celestial breezes. Cheltenham Park is the
infant among local racecourses, but already its trim
lawns are sprinkled with gorgeous flower beds, and it
owns the most up-to-date totalisator on earth. It is a
made-in-Australia tote. You press an electric button
and your ticket shoots out at you. At the same moment
a marble shoots out the other way and smites an electric
spark on the head, records the name of your choice in
horses, bounds into a bottomless pit, and finally
announces to you on the other side that you have lost
your money. Amy Castles went down on Saturday and
wandered over the green grass in a large black hat and a
very Directoire garment of a rosy hue.
The Bishop and his wife turned Bishop’s Court over to
the world, the flesh and the Devil on Saturday, and had a
tea party. There was a marquee on the lawn, with a
strin«- band to drown your charitable statements about
the other cats’ new spring millinery. Mrs. Thomas stood
beside her g’aitered lord in a soft- frock of black and
white stripes, and a picture hat with waving plumes.
The Admiral and Ladv Bosanquet were there, the latter
in a dull-purple Empire frock, trimmed with something
Oriental, and a wide purple hat with more waving plumes.
Then there was the Way lady in heliotrope, and a hat
that didn’t have any waving plumes. Very smart was
Mrs. Albion Tolley in something grey and stnpey, with
..•old lace and tassels and waving plumes. But most of
the guests were soberly garbed and countenanced as
becometh “good church workers.”
By the way, some vandal body has suggested pulling
down Bishop’s Court, because it is old ! It is one of the
few landmarks we have, a charming old house with wide
French windows opening into a jolly garden, the whole
looking down across Montefiore Hill to the silver river
(ahem !) and the green gardens and the white city, and
all the other lovely things that local poets have carelessly
omitted to write about. Probably it has a rib or two
broken and its eyesight is getting dim, but £lOOO or so
would patch it nicely, while a new red-brick and lead-
lj«-ht atrocity would swallow five times that amount.
"Died in Adelaide, the other day, Canon Homier, who
had been shepherding souls in South Aus. for nearly 50
years He belonged to a family that helped the Con-
queror in his big steal, and at least one of the family has
been a soldier ever since ; so if Fate hadn t made the
canon a sixth son, he would probably have been a warrior
instead of a cleric. As it was, there was a good deal of
the fighter in him. One yarn goes that on a stormy night
he rode to the home of a wealthy parishioner, walked in
covered with mud, and demanded a bed. “I want a
bed at once—a palliasse and blankets for a poor woman
who is ill.” He got them, tied t hem in a bundle, covered
them with his macintosh, flung them across his saddle-
bow, and rode off into the storm. It was characteristic
of hi’s wav of doing his priestly duty. .
Miss Miller, of the Nebraska State Journai. —though
I’m not sure whether the journal devotes itself to
chicken-raising’ or the care of waifs and widows has
been staying in this village for a fortnight; but she was
concealed so carefully that nobody discovered her till the
last moment. On Wednesday evening she was at the
Lyric Club, and a bunch of presswomen bore down upon
her anxious to know how they spear the news germ in
that section of the world. But, alas, the penlady had
booked her passage for Britain by next day’s mail, so the
promise of tea at the brand-new quarters of the Institute
of Journalists didn’t tempt her.
The final Castles concert was a triumph for Peter Daw-
son, our home-grown singer, and it is a wonder he isn t
simdng to that, audience yet. A laurel wreath was thrust
at him, and other gifts were heaped upon him. Arch-
bishop O’Reilv, who is a musical connoisseur among
many other things, came forth to the Castles matinee—
the first public showing' for many months, as he is much
of an invalid these days.
Gladys Harvey and Harcourt Beatty and The Hypo-
crites are at the Royal. They arrived in the middle of
“ Show week ” and town was so crammed with hayseeds
that most of the co. had to seek accommodation at Largs
Bay and Semaphore until the tillers of the soil returned to
their crops and herds. , , . .
Those good Australians, President Cleland. and hu
Chamber of Manufactures, drove His Ex. round the
city on September 14 to show him all the things Aus-
tralia can make. The shop windows wore a great display
of home-made suites and toffee and furniture-waggons
and tin cans and grand pianos and hats and motor-cars
and other bric-fi-brae ; and all proudly displayed a label
telling the world that these things were made in our own
country, and that our own country is Australia, Every
label bore some pertinent afterthought, such as Eeep
the money in the family ! ” “ Buy your kinsman s goods
“ If you fatten the goose see that it’s your own goose .
and so forth. The display did not confine itself to the
city, either. The suburbs followed suit, and where His
Ex’, hadn’t time to do the inspection the local councils
did it for him. „ .
The other day I told you that the Mayor of Glenelg,
instead of entertaining a handful at a dance, was going to
provide the burgesses with a series of free lectures. Mayor
Johnson, of Adelaide, thinks the idea so good that he, too,
has engaged a lecturer—Frederick Bevan, of theConserva-
torium —who will discourse three times on the late Arthur
Sullivan and provide musical illustrations from the
Gilbert and Sullivan operas. All of which the citizens will
vet ' ithout seeing even a collection plate. .
" On the Thursday of Agricultural show week a battalion
of white-frocked and red-ribboned maids came out and
wrested no less than £5Bl from unwary persons in the
goodly cause of the District Trained Nurses Association.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“S.S.” : Jo Smith’s plav, “The Bushwoman,” introduces
a new terror into the Australian domestic melodrama. The
hero Jack Dunstan, is a returned Cohentingenter turned
selector and he pouts his chest and scatters doodleflap
aboutdeathand glory “out there,” what time he was steal-
ing dead Boers’ teeth and cutting whiskers off deceased
burghers. Heaven deliver us from a succession of Aus-
tral Tans plays with semi-military heroes made in Africa;
but, alas ! I see them coming.


Norman Lindsay
w*,
r^t/i
LW . *■'
MLisM
'/i
\
9b.
✓A
Will hold an
Exhibition of
Pictures,
»
at FURLONG’S GALLERY, Melbourne,
Opening on
. ' < -. f ■ /,
Wednesday, 29th September, 'O9.
See Full Particulars in Daily Press, Melbourne.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding; day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion* If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years,
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Iro
7TT3J^
m.
4
y.
1
out
A faulty memory means loss of money anO the power it brings, loss of
position, loss of prestige and standing. It means inability to take advan-
tage of your experiences ; it means failure in everything you undertake.
Success is the result of hard work and careful consideration of the
little things. You may have the capacity for hard work, but unless your
memory will at once recall everything, no matter how trivial, pertaining
to the matter in hand, your hard work will go for nought, and the other
man will beat you.
NATIIRAI MFMORY And vet y° ur natural memory, if subjected to proper training for a
' very short period, would serve you so well that you would get the full
benefit from your past experiences and work, and your mind would be alert and resourceful. The
Pelman System of Memory Training is the natural system. Because it is based on the natural
laws of the mind it is easily understood and acquired. The pupil experiences benefit during
the first lesson, and, before the Course is completed, his mind works subconsciously in the right
lines, and he recalls facts, figures, ideas, dates, conversations, etc., spontaneously and without
effort.
INDIVIDUAL TUITION.
are carefully considered
in the training.
Whilst the Pelman System of Memory Training is exceedingly
beneficial in itself, the special needs and requirements of each pupil
and provided for. This individual tuition is a very important factor
ffINfFNTRATMN The Pelman Course of Training develops the power of concentration to a
l/Um/EKtnftiiun. rernar ] c;l Vile degree, and entirely removes mind wandering, with its
attendant ineffectiveness and waste of effort. Where necessary, special exercises are set.
TAIIfHT RY PnVT The Pelman System of Memory Training is exceedingly interesting and
lAUVini Pi ruoi. ver y simple. It is taught by post in five lessons. Distance is no
hindrance whatever to success. Half an hour of your spare time daily for six weeks completes
the Course, although pupils may take longer if they wish.
For twenty years the Pelman System has been helping thoughtful and ambitious people of
all classes, trades and professions on the road to success. Write novv for free booklet, giving
full particulars of the Pelman Svstem, with Australian and N.Z. opinions, to the Secretary,
THE PELMAN SCHOOL OF MEMORY, 3 Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.
atone
.Ear*
' "the
Other
PELMAN SYSTEM
OF MEMORY TRAINING.


a. Saunders.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethysts,
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold PENDANT, Rib
bon and Spray Design,
set with Amethyst, Peri-
dot, and Tourmaline,
25/-.
A MATTER FOR YOUR OWN TASTE.
The article you select is a matter for your own taste. The price you S’^ttat^oiTloohout,
comes to quality of goods—to honesty m manufacture, and to up-to aatei ess in stjie
our responsibility, our work.
AND WE DO OUR WORK THOROUGHLY.
But when i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set with Fine White
Pearls and Amethysts,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
27/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Band BRACELET, Richly Embossed, Floral
Design, with Safety Chain,
30/-.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/.
SATISFACTORY
SERVICE.
The continued and increasing patronage
of people all over Australasia is a sure
sign that our Up-to-date MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT has given satisfaction in
the matter of Prompt Service, Quality of
Goods, and Low Prices.
FREE CATALOGUE.
A request will bring you a copy of our
Illustrated Catalogue.
WRITE FOR A COPY TO-DAY.
A. SAU'NDEJRS.
9ct. Gold Wish'bone and Bird Floral
Spray BROOCH, Bell and Cnain
attached,
12/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS,
act Gold Bamboo BRACELET, Half-chased, with Safety
Chain attached,
£2/15/.
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/o/.
SAUNDERS-
Gold PENDANT,
Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
pO/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Fine Pearls and
Peridot, Garnet,
Amethyst, or Tour-
maline,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Music BROOCH, “Dearest,”
Very Neat,
15/-.
Pearl Set, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct, Gold Scroll and Ivy Leaf BROOCH,
Garnet Centre,
6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold MEDAL,
Hand Engraved,
12/6.
In 15ct. Gold, 20/.
Other Styles, 15/,
17/6, 20/.
£
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Curb Padlock
BRACELET, with Safety
Chain attached,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Larger £3/10/, £4,
£4/10/. Smaller, 25/,
30/, 35/, 40/, 50/. 15ct.
Hold, £4/5/, £4/15/,
£5. 18ct. Gold, £7/10/,
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9c t. Gold MEDAL,
Nicely Engraved,
10/-.
15ct. Gold, 17/6..
Other Styles, 8/6,
10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bird, Spray and Heart BROOCH,
Neat floral esign,
8/C.
A. SAUNDERS. „ ~ .
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pure Golden
Sapphires,
£l».
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
£l2/10/.
i^hiAilir^
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, Pale Blue, and
Dark Green Enamel,
7/6.
Smaller, 6/6; Wider, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, pure Diamonds,
Pearls, and Rubies or Sapphires,
£6/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUNTAIN PEN, Sterling Silver-mounted “Paul E.
Weir” or “Glide Easy,” 15/. ,14ct. Gold Nib,
Plain,. 7/6. Other Styles, 4/6,' 5/6, 7/6, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
a ct Gold Knife Edsre Pearl Cluster and Spray
BRACELET,
£26/1 0/-.
A. ; SAUNDERS.
HAT PIN, Coloured
Enamel and Silver,
Strong Steel Stem,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set
Pearls, Ruby, and Turquoise,
or all Pearls,
£3/10/.
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
• 15et. Gold BRACELET, Diamonds, Opals, and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£l3/10/-.
t
Silver HAT PIN,
Strong Steel Stem,
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Hall-marked
Shield and Dumbbell
LINKS,
20/-.
Initials Engraved Free.
Solid
Silver,
£2.
:****« V«iM
■: •;/
:
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Watches,
Stem Set, f-plate, Fully Jewelled, Compensa-
tion Balance, Perfectly Timed and Adjusted.
£J2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3/10/, £4/10/ £5/10/
Solid Gold, £7/10/, , £B/10/, £l2/10/, £l5,
£2O. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, and 6 Tears.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/
Silver HAT PIN,
bLetii bov-111,
1/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LINKS, Heart
and Dumb-bell,
20/-.
Smaller Size, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Crescent
BKO An ' T set Fine
White Pearls,
£JS/10/.
Silyer aAT PIN,
Amethyst Top,
Strong Steel Stem,
3/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, set Fine White Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Opals,
£3O.
Smaller Diamonds, £25.
Open
Face,
10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open Faced Key-
less" WATCHES, Short-wind, Stem
Set, Perfectly Regulated,
' ‘ 10/-.
Higher Grades, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
Higher
G-rade,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Dinna Forget” Bird and Heart
BROOCH, Floral Design,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hall-marked
Motto RING,
Neatly -Chased, - *
10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold RING,
Set Fine Double-cut
’Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,.
£l5.
Diamonds and
Emeralds, £l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Juvenile Padlock Curb BRACELET,
Nicely Finished, , /
10/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Dinna
Forget’’ CHARM,
10/-.
Larger, ,12/6.
•, A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, set with
•Fine large Double-
cut Diamond*,
£ 5.
Smaller Diamond, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and
Spray Heart CHARM,
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine
Double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or
, Sapphires,
£3’/10/:
All Diamonds, £5.
Solid
Silver,
25/-
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting Key-
less Watches, Richly-engraved Case,
f-plate, Lever Movement, Patent Ad-
justed Balance.
25/-.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3, 4 Years.
Solid
|GrOld,
£3.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith, &
Consulting Optician.
.... —a - .
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE NEW RAILWAY STATION.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


g
df
gdf
10/6 FOR A MOUSTACHE.
There are hundreds of men who would be delighted to get
a moustache for 10/6.
That’s the price of CAPiLLARINE, and if you use it rightly
the result will be a surprise to you.
PRICE. 10/6. POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Craig 1 8l Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Established 25 Years. •
g
df
gdf
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LADGH GLASS.
See the passing Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin—thin
people look stout. The
Laughing- Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
All grow fat from laugh ter.
It is well and strongly
made, and cannot get out The Laughing Camera.
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
>■> **
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open,
use, also a superior
directions, 2/2, post
Makes a splendid knife for general
rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
free anywhere.
THE POLYCHROMATIC BILLIARD BALL
gdf
After introducing any
number of silk handker-
cbiefs, each of a different
color, the conjurer re-
quests the company to
select i.ny one of the
handkerchiefs (no forc-
ing). .Seizing the selected
handkerchief, the per-
former waves his hand
gently upanddown, when
the handkerchief becomes
smaller and smaller until
it fiqally disappears alto-
gether, having gi\ en place
to a solid billiard hall of
the same color as the
handkerchief. This is a
very novel and inexplic-
able trick, while the
apparatus that we furnish
for this trick is made of very substantial and superior
material, and quite impossible to get out of order.
Suitable for either amateur or professional.
Complete with red, white and blue handkerchiefs.
Price (with full instructions), 1/6 ; post free, 2J-
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Hayraarkeb Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
WORLD’S RECORD BREAK
i
y
b
9
ON AN
Alcock Table
Much could be said of the wonderful performance of the boy marvel,
George Gray, in his match wiih Fred Lindrum, Jun (Champion of Australia),
played on an “Alcock ’ Table at Alcock’s Billiard Rooms.
On Wednesday, the 25th August, Gray, who had already made some
phenomenal breaks, established the world’s record by scoring 836—831
coming off the red ball. This supersedes the world’s record of 802
previously held by Stevenson.
Crystallite Balls were used, and the marvellous accuracy with which
they came off the cushions—the ease with which the most difficult shots
were accomplished, speaks for itself of the worthiness and superiority of
“Alcock” Billiard Tables.
Before the match the table was measured and tested by representa-
tives of the Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria, and found to be correct
in accordance with the rules of the Billiard Association of Great Britain
and Ireland- We append herewith copy of certificate:—
AMATEUR BILLIARD ASSOCIATION OF VICTORIA
(Affiliated with the Billiard Association r! Great Britain and Ireland).
STANDARD TABLE CERTIFICATE.
This is to certify that the Standard Table, made by Messrs. Alcock & Co., Pty., Ltd., and
numbered 4663, has,' this 10th day of May, 1900, been duly measured and tested with the British
Billiard Association’s Test plates, and found to be correct.
This certificate expires on the 9th day of May, 1910.
To Messrs. Alcock & Co., Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
H. W. MEAIvIN, President.
(Signed; j B BARLO W, Hon. Secretary.
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED to VISIT our SHOWROOMS and See the
TABLES that Leading Billiard Players Fronounce the BEST in the WORLD.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE.
gdf
gd
397 George Street,
SYDNEY.
155 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
fg
ANDREW McGEE
Ba?lifig> Of London, never made a BETTER pipe than this one. It
complies with most critical deinau'cfs of the most exacting smoker.
Bent Stems, 5/-, 5/6, 6/6, and large, 9/- Straights; 5/-, 5/6, 6/6, 7/-; large, 9/-
Posted, 2d. extra. Dozens of other shapes in stock:
Smoke McGee’s Club Mixture, 8/3 per lb. post free. It does not bite the tonyue.
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist & Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 Castlereagh
St., cor. Hunter St.
Saloon open all day
V'ednesday.
Jerdan’s Cinematography !
Our List of Second-hand Films is worth seeing.
We are the principal experts in this
business in Australasia, and carry an
immense stock of up-to-date machines,
apparatus and accessories.
SUPPLIES FOB THE SHOWMAN.
Can we. do anything for YOU in this
line? There isn’t an item that you want
that we do not stock.
Our Film Department has over
Half a Million Feet of Films
for hire or sale. All good subjects, chosen
specially for the Commonwealth public.
Have just opened up from “Home” a
magnificent supply of
PATHE FILMS, Splendid Subjects,
4d. PER FOOT.
Call and see them, or send for particulars. We
sell or hire' machines, do repair work, and give
exhibitions at concerts, etc.
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
RUPTURE IS CURABLE
BY THE
DR. J. A. SHERMAN METHOD.
Read this
testimony
from a
Sydney lady
who
suffered
torture for
17 years.
We Will be glad to have you
call for a free consultation, when
definite evidence of the Sherman
Treatment’s success will be placed
before you.
If you cannot call, just fill in
and mail the coupon below,
and we will send you two
books, entitled —“ A Warning
.and Guide to the Ruptured,”
by W. Pryor, M.D., and “In-
disputable Testimony,” con-
taining extracts from the London
and American Lancet,, and
medical reports and testimonials.
We send these books post free.
Mr. A. W. MARTIN,
Dept. “ B,” Gibbs’ Chambers,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Please send me the two Books
on Rupture described here: —
Tub Bulletin.
Mr. A. W. MARTIN, Rupture Specialist,
7 Moore Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, ,
Knowing from sad experience the torture that many
sufferers from hernia or rupture endure, I wish the benefit I
received from the Dr. J. A. Sherman Treatment to be as
widely known as possible.
During the seventeen long years I suffered, although a
big woman, I gradually faded away, till I was mere skin and
bone, many times being quite unable to drag myself from
room to room.
During that period I had several attacks of strangulation,
and what I suffered then God alone knows- , Great beads of
perspiration would cover my face, and I would lie down almost
resigned to what I thought was the inevitable. Each day,
when my husband Said good-bye in the morning, it was with the
fear that I would not be alive to see him on his return.
The trouble got worse and worse. I consulted several
doctors, and each told me they could do nothing for me except
operate; and I would not go under the knife. I also consulted a
number of so-called “ Rupture Specialists,” and the treatment
of these men simply meant the wearing of an expensive and
torturing truss.
My husband and I had read the advertisements of Mr. A.
W. Martin, Sole Controller of the Dr. J. A. Sherman Method for
the Cure of Rupture, but we had spent so much money without
any return that we hesitated to call on him, believing that no
one could do anything for me.
Finally my husband decided to make inquiry, and called on
Mr. Martin. Then, satisfied with his bona fides, he took me
with him, and, after careful examination, Mr. Martin told me
that I would be cured in less than three months, and com-
menced the treatment then and there.
From the very first day I had relief, and before six weeks
had passed, the tissues were healing, and in less than three
months I was so well that I accompanied my husband in an
eight mile tramp over hilly roads.
I have steadily gained weight, and am now the picture of
health.
I am cured—absolutely cured—and I urge all who are
afflicted to get the same treatmentthat cured me. I speak with
authority, as I tried all the other remedies, and it would have
been better if I had simply thrown the money away.
I do not desire that my name should be published in the
papers, but have arranged that Mr. Martin will furnish my
name and address to any sufferer, who can then write to me,
or I will be glad to give a personal interview to any woman
sufferer.
Hours :—Daily
Saturdays, io
(Sunday excepted), io a.m. to 12 noon ; :
a.m. to 12 noon. Extra Hours -.-Friday
: p.m. to 5 p. m.
Evenings, 7 to 9.
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller lor Aus-
tralasia ol the Dr. J. A.
Sherman Method, <£*
GIBBS’ CHAMBERS, 7 MOORS STREET (Near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.


KALYDOR
THE
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it,
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough Rem-
edy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite with
mothers everywhere.*
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough Rem-
edy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite with
mothers everywhere.*
RHEUMATISM,
Lumbago and Sciatica.
Rheumatism, lumbago and sciatica are three of
the most common and most painful complaints in
this country, especially in the cold districts.
They practically arise from the same cause, and
the names only distinguish the location of the
disease. If the arms and legs are affected, it is
called rheumatism ; if in the loins, lumbago ; and
if in the hips, sciatica.
The attacks are generally brought on by chills
when the body is overheated, or by exposure to
damp or cold draughts, which act, not upon the
bones or muscles, but upon the uric acid in the
blood, which is the cause of the disease. Uric
acid is found in small quantities in many articles
of diet, which, when consumed, pass into the
blood. The failure of the liver and kidneys to
filter and absorb this acid leads to an accumu-
lation in the system, tends to clog the circulation,
and harden the tissues forming the blood vessels.
Thus every movement of the affected parts causes
you intense agony. The pains are affected more
or less by cold or heat. A damp day will double
you up, or the warmth of the bed will intensify
the pain.
Mr. Henry B. Stretton, 26 Albert Street,
Erskineville, Sydney, writes:—“For six months
I had been laid up with muscular rheumatism,
and was treated for three months in the hospital
with it. The doctor and his medicine did not do
me the least bit of good. The attack was first in
the left leg, and it gradually worked up into the
back, and I would be doubled up with the most
cruel pains. I suffered like this, as I say. for
fully six months, and at last I decided to try Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, as I had heard so much
about them. I was very pleased to notice that
after using a few bottles I began to improve, and
afterwards I completely recovered, and I now
swear by them.”
In order to effect a cure Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills and Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment
should be used as directed. Obtainable at all
chemists and stores ; or will be posted by the "W.
H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney,
on receipt of price. Pills, Is. lid. (6 bottles
6s. 6d.); Liniment, 2s. 6d. (6 bottles 13s. 6d.)*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E v RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATiVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALOOORLIE and COCLCARDIE.
Brewert and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Judging by spasmodic jerks of news that filter
through the various English papers, there is a small regi-
ment of swimmers making continual efforts to swim the
English Channel. In fact, they are now so numerous
that the cable has ceased to notice them ; and, so far,
none of them seems to have got anywhere near rivalling
Webb’s great feat.
The most interesting upheaval in Sydney sport
on wet, miserable Saturday was the annual Dunlop Road
Race from Goulburn to Sydney, run under the auspices
of the League of Wheelmen, though it would have been
better if it had been run under an umbrella. All the best
riders of N.S.W. were there, and also a formidable bunch
from the other States—ll 3 in all. When they started
from Goulburn the promise was for a fine day, but at
Moss Vale they entered a veil of rain and slush, and the
howl of the storm was answered by the roar and curse of
113 angry wheelmen. On they rushed, for behind the
mighty Larcombe (of Yass) Was eating up the miles in a
way marvellous to behold, and had already passed 60 of
the men to whom he had conceded handicaps. He was
travelling at 21 miles an hour, and throwing towns and
bridges and real and personal property behind him in a
dizzy fashion. Stace, who had received 53 minutes’ start,
was in the van, ana he too was driving furiously, like
Jehu, son of Nimshi. The other two scratch men had
punctured, and were sitting in the slush somewhere,
trying to effect repairs. At Mittagong, between Moss
Vale and Picton, Stace’s boiler burst, and he resigned the
lead to W. H. Williams (42min. start). The new pilot
made things hideous. Tom Larcombe was no longer
threatening, for the champion had punctured and
beached himself for repairs. As the competitors ap-
proached the coast the rain grew heavier and so did the
roads; but they ploughed through it desperately,
their course being marked by the blowing-out
of punctured tyres. Barring accidents, Williams was
a certain winner, and six miles from the tape they
were cheering him as such. Then the gods took a hand.
Three miles from home there was a noise like the last
wheeze of an exhausted soda syphon, and Williams
hauled off, punctured. Hardy, the Victorian, only three
minutes behind him, leaped into the vacant place ; but
Williams effected a mend with marvellous celerity, re-
mounted, and came again with a tremendous effort. So
vigorously did he make up his ground that the Victorian
only just managed to get in first, saving his place by
3Jimn., while the third man, J. Gailagher, of Sydney,
was 83sec. behind Williams. Which was a wonderfully
close finish for a ride of 131 miles.
As mentioned last week, some fast riding was
expected, and considering' the state of the roads and the
environment generally, the pace was wonderful. In
spite of all difficulties, H. Lundie, the man who won the
recent Bathurst to Sydney race, covered the distance in
6hr. 50min. 12sec., which gave him an average speed of
19'16 miles per hour for the 131 miles. Galiagher, the
third man, promptly protested against Williams on the
staggering ground that he had put in a neyv wheel
on the journey. How in thunder he carried that
wheel along with him is a mystery to writer at
present. Some idea of the awful state of the road
after the rain was run into can be gathered from the fact
that at one place the cyclists are said to have been fairly
stuck, and compelled to hump their machines through
the bog per boot. At Ashfield, Hardy, the winner,
registered a solemn vow that wild horses wouldn’t drag
him into another race on such roads. A feature of the
business was the cinematograph 1 car with which Mr.
West’s staff raced ahead of the procession, and, setting
up the machines, “ took ” the cyclists as they sped by.
The race started at 8 a.m., and finished, as far as the first
man was concerned, at 3.18 p. in. Hard}’, the winner,
and H. Lundie, the speeder, both rode machines fitted
with the Barnet Glass “Flite” tyres. So did H. D.
Walcott in the Bathurst to Sydney race, in which it turns
out that he beat Horder’s time by six minutes, as it is
alleged that Horder did not ride round Sunny Corner.
The rain that fell on the just and the iniquitous
on Saturday around Sydney made things mighty un-
pleasant for the Cross Country Championship runners.
It was bad enough for the athletes, but the men for whom
the writer’s heart bled were the poor officials, who had to
stand around in the slush with a look of weird expectancy
on their faces, waiting for the arrival of the runners. Far
out on the confines of nowhere, among the Botany sand-
hills, with never a pub in sight or a glimpse of a passing
Samaritan to inquire if they had moutihs on them, were
men—men like you and I, blastiferous reader —mud from
heels to nape, stamping and cursing in the wet, counting
the seconds till the muddied oafs who were doing the
running should appear. And just because it was wet
and the going was heavy, they were longer than usual
putting in an appearance. Also, there were 136 of
them, and they took some time to pass. Of all this
crowd, only one (J. Garvan, of East Brisbane Harriers)
represented another State. For once, N.S.W. had things
all its own way. Andrew Wood, of the East Sydney Club,
won the Individual Five Miles Championship, with C.
Weyman (of Botany) and A. Aberline (of East Sydney)
second and third respectively. Wood flew over the
distance in 31min. 34sec., which, considering what he
flew over, was good travelling. In the struggle for the
Team Championship, the previous holders, Botany
Harriers, maintained their right to the title, winning
with 52 points against them. Redfern Harriers dropped
86 points and came in second. South Sydney’s score was
98, and East Sydney’s 104.
• * * *
The canny Scottish athletes of Otago (M.L) are
in a state of incipient revolt. The trouble is not about
handicapping, professionalism, or anything connected
with the actual running, but over the fact that the
recipients of the open orders which pure amateurism
deals out instead of cash prizes say they don’t get full
value for the alleged money. Also it is sworn that the
piano and the sewing machine which the amateur takes
instead of hard cash are never up to date in arriving, and
sometimes run late to the extent of three or four months.
The athletes demand that the harp and crown shall be
exhibited on the ground now before the race starts, and,
the governing body is considering the question very hard.
* * * *
Victoria’s annual 10-Mile Cross Country Cham-
pionship at Caulfield brought out 250 starters, including
the majority of the State’s crack runners. Aitken and
Blake, of Marathon fame, were about the most famous
there. Aitken is now reaching the classic stage, but all
the same he loped home in the record time of 58min.
46sec., with Richardson, of Ballarat, present Five Mile
Champion of the State, second ; and Kerr, a promising
ped from the ’Varsity, third. Geo. Blake, unfortunately,
got tangled in some barbed wire, and only managed to
get. fourth place. Aitken, who belongs to the Coburg
Harriers, won the same event in 1907, and made a
specially good showing in the London Marathon.
* * * *
As everybody expected, the Kangaroos and
Wallabies played a fourth football match ; but the rain
was against the gate, and great was the grief. Not more
than 5000 looked on and wondered what sort of fools they
were to come out in such weather, for it was cold and
wet, and on the ground the’bailers sprawled unelegantly in
the slush. Neither Messenger norScuntz played, and their
absence made a great gap. At half-time the Kangaroos
were leading by eight points to three, and the only score
added during the second half was a try by the Wallabies ;
which left the Kangaroos winners by two—eight to six.
This makes the score between the teams two each, and
the fact will probably furnish excuse for another game.
The Rugby League final fell through, owing to
the determination of the Balmain Club to in no way
assist the Kangaroo-Wallaby speculation. The League
had arranged for South Sydney and Balmain to play the
final as a preliminary to the Kangaroo-Wallaby match ;
but as the gate was to go where the profits of the
other Private Enterprise matches had gone, Balmain
declined to play. Usually the gate of the final is divided
between the Civil Ambulance and the League Insurance
Fund. According to the Balmain secretary’s statement,
this year it would have gone to make up a deficit of £240
on the Kangaroo-Wallaby speculation ; and the men
from the Tattered Suburb were “ not having any.” This
Kangaroo-Wallaby business is going to cause much
trouble before it is all settled.
* •» * *
The luck of the Sydney “Soccer” footballers
was right out on Saturday, when they played off the final
of the Gardiner Cup on the Cricket Ground. The rain
made the field slippery, and kept away the people who
would otherwise have brought a little extra grist to the
“Soccer” treasury, where it is badly wanted. The dis-
putants were Pyrmont and Adamstown, and, in spite of
all the disadvantages, they put up a splendid game. The
ground was totally unfit to play on, being a quagmire
dotted over with pools of water, in which the ’bailers sat
down heavily amid clouds of spray'. Pyrmont attacked,
with : the wind behind it ; but, to its amazement,
suddenly found itself very much on the defensive.
All the arts and wiles ,of "the veteran were brought
into play, but failed utterly against the splendid
defence of the Adamstown goal-keeper and his trusty
backs. And every'time the attack weakened, the oppor-
tunity' was seized, and like a flash the Pyrmont goal was
being attacked. Half-time arrived without any score,
and the chance of Pyrmont winning that match looked
blue, for with the change of ends Adamstown had the
benefit of the wind. During the second half Pyrmont had
an unholy' time ; but the splendid combination of the
defence baulked the attacks of the Northern men, and the
whistle sounded on a scoreless draw. The game will be
re-pla.yed on the coming Saturday, at Newcastle, and
should be worth going far to see.
* » • *
There were no games in the Australian Rules
section, but this Saturday there will be a double event at
the Sydney' Cricket Ground, when North Sydney will
battle with Paddington and Y.M.C.A.. will play New-
town.
Saturday’s Vie. League football semi-final,
South v. Collingwood, brought as large a crowd as last
week’s, but for some mysterious reason it “parted’’some
£BOO less—£loso to wit. The collision was a tremendous
episode for the first hour, South rushing things at a fear-
ful pace and being met by an equally strenuous resistance.
The riot was more than willing, but South’s persistent
habit of playing the man instead of the ball speedily' brought
penalties, and finding the umpire wasn’t to be bluffed,
both teams bogged in for a time according' to rule. South
had first call on the vvincj, but that didn’t nearly account
for the quarter-time score —South 22 points, ’Wood one
point—and a disgusted crowd began to wish it had put it
the afternoon at the Ass. final instead. But on changing
over the Magpies of Collingwood got going in the old
methodical style, and steadily raised their tally to 24 at
half-time, while “Skinner’s hirelings” added nary a
• point. Remembering the determined finishes put up by
the Magpies.this season that promised a gorgeous last
half; but, alas ! in the third quarter the Red-and-Whites
took complete charge of the proceedings, and rushed on
another 39 points, while ’Wood scratched up a paltry six.
The Magpjes made a small sepiblance of effort in the last
quarter, reducing their deficit by 10 {joints, but there was
none of the whirling rush, the set intention that pulls
a game out of the fire, and the episode closed
with South 68 points, ’Wood 47. Yet there
was little credit to the hirelings in the victory'.
Throughout the last half their arms, with clenched fists
at the end, were whirling like flails ; they were penalised
and cautioned, but to little effect; and in the final quarter
their deliberate wasting of time drew down the disgust
and wrath of many. ,For all that it is a good thing for
the game that the Magpies lost, as they (or some of them)
followed the evil and disastrous example of Norwood
(S.A.) by indulging in “ doping” at half-time. There has
been little joy about this year’s League finals, but a trifle
of hope remains—viz., that Carlton will wallop South.
This writer has scant love for the “ Old Blues,” but at
least they don’t play the unclean game that South does,
and they are said to have already scoffed at the idea of
“ doping.”
Out at North Melbourne, a cleaner, prettier
game was offered to a 20,000 house, worth £260, the
while Essendon and Brunswick strove for the glory of
meeting P’ran in the Ass. grand final. ’Don a
vastly better record through the season ; it had un-
accountably been allowed to practise on the supposedly
neutral playing ground, and it had its acquired League
and other stars in battling trim. Yet it was outplayed
and outmanoeuvred throughout the whole discussion.
More than any other Ass. team, ’Wick plays the
systematic game that the League Magpies first crystal-
lised, and, though it struck disaster in the first
quarter—when its captain got a bump that a
medico diagnosed as concussion of the brain
and had to battle on with a man short, still its
methodical, practised, certain game left the ’Dons no
hope, and after leading right through it won a hard,
well-earned and creditable victory by 54 points to ’Don s
44. Just here this writer would impress on Essendon’s
committee the fact that its habit of acquiring star ’bailers
from other clubs doesn’t seem to have panned out too
well, inasmuch as it has moved up only one step from
last year. Possibly if it bought up a whole League club
next season it might do better, or again it might not.
The chances are that some neglected organisation like
North, which depends for its men on local citizens, and
essays to win through skill and comradeship, would slide
along at the last moment and upset its calculations.
Anyhow, ’Don has had a long spell at the “ acquiring ”
business, and a steady effort at training the local youths
ought to improve matters considerably.
" * * * *
As illustrating the supineness of governing
bodies of football, the semi-final, on Sept. 11, between
South Bendigo and Eaglehawk, is interesting. The game
was uproarious, but the noise wasn’t half as overpowering
as the odor thereof; in consequence of which latter half
a dozen Eaglehawk players have since slung in their duds
in disgust, and the committee has reluctantly promised
to “ ask a few’ questions.” As for the riot itself, the Ben-
digo Ass. took no action, but the police did, wherefore
Eaglehawk’s captain now stands charged with inflicting
grievous bodily harm on an opponent. Yet when a cate
of manslaughter presently comes along delegates will
assume an expression of pained surprise, as though some-
thing unexpected had supervened.
The Rugby Union’s practical monopoly of the
playing spaces of the Sydney area is likely to lead to
much discussion shortly. Soccer, Australian Rules and
League Rugby football are all knocking loudly on the
gate, and demanding to know why anybody should have
an exclusive right to public parks ; and behind them press
lacrosse, baseball, hockey, hurling, lawn tennis, croquet
and a crowd of others. The councils and trusts which
control the parks are beginning to feel the strain, and as
soon as it grows strong enough they will be overborne.
How they will fix it all up Heaven possibly knows—this
writer doesn’t.
* * * *
The death of Maltose in the Camelia Stakes
(7 fur.) at Rosehill on Saturday last removed one hot
favorite for the Epsom Handicap. Maltose was tipped
and backed as a particularly good thing, and he was run-
ning strongly when he fell. Banquo and the much-fancied
Queenslander, War Star, tumbled over him. All were
injured, but Maltose, with a broken leg and shoulder,
had to be destroyed. All the riders escaped
with nothing more than abrasions and contu-
sions. This disastrous gallop was won by Golden
Slipper, which started a strong favorite at 7 to 2 against,
in lmin. 26£sec. This equalled the record for Australia
shared in by Prince Foote and By-Play. Vavasor, owned
by acting chairman of the A.J.C., Mr. E. Fraser, gathered
the Rosehill Handicap in a manner that deserved noting
for future reference, and thus fulfilled the promise the
neddy made when he won from 16 others the A.J.C.
Grantham Stakes last season. Of the 207 entered for the
Rosehill meeting no less than 102 were scratched ; which
may be all right, but leaves a nasty taste in the mouth.
■Jf #
The once forefront South Australian cross-
country rider, Tom Kain, died a day or two since, aged 45.
He had the mounts when Trigger won the Great Eastern
Steeplechase at Oakbanlc 25 years ago, and when three
years later Swordfish appropriated the same event. Kain
also steered Emile home in the Adelaide Grand National
19 years back.
* ■* *
“A.” : Dick Lilley, the old-established English
wicket-keeper, became a grandfather just before the
recent fifth test match. Any other cases of a grandfather
in international cricket ?
„ * * »
The wanderings of that Ulysses-like band, the
Australian XI., came to an end last week with a picnic
match near Dublin, in the Emerald Isle. In all 40
matches were attempted during the trip, but only 17 came
to a due and proper end, of which 13 were won and four
lost. Which is a sufficient reply to the carping of the
critics who reckoned that Board of Control management
had resulted in inferior cricket,
* * * *
The Board of Control has reasonable cause to
fold its hands across its fat stomach and feel content.
Since it took over the reins of cricket the Australian XI. has
kept a tight grip on the ashes, and the speculative element
has been badly biffed, although not quite eliminated from
the game. The Board now controls everything save the
appointment of the manager, and that, too, in the course
of the ages, must fall to it.
* * * •
“The Crank ” writes, and presumably there are
other cranks who will read : The heroes with the.bat for
the Australian XI. were Bardsley and Ransford, and the
averages of these players place them ahead of the
rest of the team. In all matches, Bardsley scored 2166
runs (a total second only to Trumper’s 2570 in 1902), at
an average of 47'08 ; and Ransford follows with 1783 runs,
at an average of 44’58. The two young left-handers
have monopolised the limelight; and their figures have
no need to hide a diminished head when brought into
comparison with the records of the mighty left-handers,
Clem Hill and Joe Darling. Armstrong’s 42 innings (out
of which there were nine “ not-outs ”) yielded 1456 runs
at an average of 44T2 ; and the rest of the team are the
beginning of a long tail. So far as the bowling averages
are concerned, discrepancies in the cabled figures leave
this aspect for future pondering—although Armstrong is
the solitary bowler to gather in 100 wickets.
* * * *
N.S.W. bowlers got rather a severe rubbing out
in Brisbane last week. Queensland won the first “ te_st ”
by 108 points to 80 ; the second fell to N.S. W. by 81 points
to 78 ; and Queensland took the final match by 97 to 87.
Thus the Banana State won the rubber, and scored an
aggregate of 283 points to N.S. W.’s 241.
* * * *
Much tommyrot has been written about aero-
planes soaring thousands of feet high. Asa matter of
fact, the present form of aeroplane will never be a high
flyer, and will probably be quite unable to soar over high
mountains. Aeroplanes can only keep aloft by being
driven against the air, and the higher they go the more
rarefied the air, till at last a zone is reached in which the
explosions of the internal combustion engine will no
longer have power to drive the machine, or the
ambient atmosphere the density to support it. This does
not apply to such an extent to the dirigible, which is
carried aloft by the expansion of gas, but it does to a
degree. No Zeppelin will ever soar like the old-fashioned
balloon —it carries too much weight, and the result is
that already guns have been constructed which can bom-
bard the very highest flying dirigible, while the aero-
plane is sport for the ordinary rifleman. And the
shooter below would have much more fun out of the
encounter than the fellow up above.
• * *
The news that Orville Wright made £2500 in
one week whizzing round on an aeroplane is likely to do
more for aerial navigation than anything else that has
happened of late. Hon. O. S. Rolls, the well-known
English aeronaut, has for long been trying to introduce
aeronautics into the domain of sport with the idea of en-
couraging the English inventor. Rolls’ idea is that once
a thing enters the domain of sport the Briton takes it up
with avidity and works marvellous improvements,
because a crowd of gilded rotters who care nothing a
the defence of the country will put up their money in un-
limited quantities to get an improved machine that win
take the Celestial Cup from Smith’s sideboard. And Kons
is right.
* * *
After all there are drawbacks about being a
great inventor. It is said that Louis Brennan is prac 1-
cally a prisoner, and goes nowhere without a bod vguara
of at least four armed detectives to prevent him being
kidnapped to some quiet place in the country and there
persuaded, with a hot iron, to draw a plan of his amazing
torpedo. Said that recently another inventor sold an
improved and wonderful aeroplane to the British Govern-
ment ; but stipulated that his name should never
be mentioned ; being warned by Brennan s melancholy
fate he preferred to remain unhonored and unsung,
and to disguise the fact that he had made wealth
he went back to the foundry in which he worked
out his idea and posed as being much out ot
pocket through the expense of his trip to London.
But his domestic luxury gave him away, and intelligent
foreigners began to cultivate his society ; whereupon he
left without waiting to pack his valise, and vanished
utterly. Possibly the intelligent foreigners got him, and
buried him after extracting his secret. Perhaps it is a
knowledge of these facts that keeps the freedom-loving
Briton from making a splash with the aeroplane .
Hugh D. Mclntosh, “of Sydney,” is now in
the U.S.A. trying to arrange for Jeffries and Johnson to
under his management for a purse of £IO,OOO. This
mention of a fight between Jeffries and Johnson seems to
recall something.
* * * *
“ S.S.”: The claim that Tommy Jones, of
Sydney, and Douglas, the rough and tough South African,
were the same weight seemed preposterous when the tvvo
lads faced each other in the ring at Melbourne Sports
Pavilion for the usual Monday evening dust-up. But the
scales said 9st. 41b. for each man, and the apparatus can-
not lie. The battle was for two championships, light and
featVierweights, and a handy stack of money. From the
jump Jones’s chance against the plain, pertinacious ex-
pounder from darkest Africa represented a dividend of
nothing in the £. Tommy is a clever boy, but he is no
man-eater. His punch is good enough to seriously annoy
an ordinary human being built on his own lines, but
Douglas is a mass of gutta-percha muscle and patent
macadam, with a face like the front of a stone Pharaoh
of the Cave-Dwelling Dynasty ; and Jones could do
him no injury worth mentioning. Tommy’s left
rebounded from that granite countenance with contused
knuckles, and when Thomas smote Mr. Douglas elsewhere
he rebounded also. Then Douglas would smile a winning
smile like that of an amiable devil, and return a blow'
that made Jones lie down. The end came in the 12th, when
the Australian rebounded so far that he didn’t get back
in time to renew the contest that night. It now remains
for Hock Keys to get good, and square accounts with
Douglas. Failing Hock, Hughie Meeghan may contrive
to find the weak spot in the African fortification, if there
is one.
» * * *
“ Sagittarius ” : The worst feature of sport in
these degenerate days is that people who ought to know
better are busily engaged in elevating every branch of it
into a science. And when a sport becomes a science it
ceases to be popular. Nowadays to become a cricketer
it is necessary to invest in patent automatic bowlers,
patent bouncing boards (to teach the art of catching in the
slips), and so forth, to say nothing of spending practically
all one’s time at the game. The pugilist has become a
skilled anatomist—for destructive purposes. The tennis
player must devote all his time to the “American serve,”
“ the back screw cut,” and other trifles. And the people
whose time is mostly take up in earning a crust crowd
round the fence, smoke cigarettes and make bets ; and
after a few months of this it is only a question
of time till they spit. Then as the current sports become
sciences and unpopular, new sports come in, or old ones
revive ; and at present appearances it is time archery
came oil deck once more. Asa pastime it has many
merits ; not the least among which is the fact that it will
deliver us from the tyranny of the ball. The w'ay the ball
butts into all modern games, indoor or outdoor, has be-
come a maddening monotony ; and anything that will
give us a form of amusement in which there is no ball
will be thrice welcome relief. Archery trains the hand
and the eye, and is conducive to a graceful carriage
and pose; thereby adding something to the world’s
stock of beauty. It does not develop the
rounded shoulders that characterise the girl who
comes back from six weeks’ tobogganing at Kos-
ciusko ; neither does it make for the bard counte-
nance and leg-of-mutton fist of the girl who plays “goff.”
It can be indulged in by mixed company, and, while
supplying splendid exercise, it gilds the fleeting day with
the joy of social intercourse. Around it hangs a whole
world of romance, and memories of grand old scraps won
by the yew and the cloth-yard shaft. What does cricket
recall but the ridiculous tall hats of our grandfathers?
Are there any stirring memories around “ goff,” hockey,
ping-pong, football or diabolo? Bring out the bow and
the"grey-goose shaft. They never had a proper chance
before. Now we will make a steel bow 25yds. high ; we
will draw that bow with a forest devil or by hydraulic
power or electricity ; and we will discharge to a distance
of seven miles a hollow arrow with 61b. of dynamite inside
it; and then snakes will wake. V ,
THE BAIHTUAL HERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is the intention of the Manly Council to appoint
three attendants and life-savers to do duty on the beach
during- the approaching surf-bathing season. Previously
there were only two, one each at the northern and
southern ends. The appointment of an additional atten-
dant will provide for a continuous watch being kept over
bathers at all times, it being also made in anticipation of
an extra busy season. —News item.
The bronzed life-saver strolls among the bathers on the
beach,
And watches all the shapely ones, until a frightened
screech
Rings out above the bathers’ cries. Then round upon his
heel
He spins and, like a hero, flies bald-headed for the reel.
He stays but till the line is tied securely round his
chest,
Then at the foaming sea he bounds and plunges in with
zest;
Far out into the heaving- green he swims, till in his arm
He holds the lady, faint and damp, who caused the wild
alarm.
Then back they’re hauled—and frequently the haulers,
brown and bare,
Pull in the rope so hastily they almost drown the pair ;
But they arrive, and on the beach the joyous bathers
shout,
Whilst, bv the folk who do these things, the saved are
emptied out.
No lifelong gratitude rewards the hero. As a rule,
He is a sober, married man, with boys and girls at school;
And even if the lady yearned to love him all her life,
He’d find it very hard indeed to reconcile his wife.
His clients—some are young and fair, and some are old
and dark,
And most of them the deep rejects—as also does the
shark ;
Impartially he drags them all from out the scornful sea,
Because, instead of postcards, be collects humanity.
N.S.W.
MARK PLIMSOLL.


IN ANY CAR
‘SHELL’’
MOTOR SPIRIT
Gives Best Results
Because of its CONSISTENT Quality.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball- I
Bearing Roller Skates.
ex clusi ve ly in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America
? I T , n 10 ?L fch r? World ’ fasfc and fancy. RICHARDSON
n’ nu & ! ave held all World s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue
tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co. 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing AgenS
Britain and Ireland—Me-srs. .1, O. Plimpton ft Co. l.iverrwd
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
Tb Peero Peerless Pill
Admitted by experts to be the Stomach and Liver Pill of the
Age, and invaluable for the cure of Anaemia in Women, Debility
in Men, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Flatulence, Gas-
tritis, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Neuralgia, and Costiveness.
“PEERO”
PILLS are
beyond value to
persons living on
farms, shearing-
sheds, cattle-runs,
sheep-statiohs, or
mining camps.
They are the best
doctor for the
home, because
they save life and
promote health.
i r,,^ 1 cl ?. ar ,i: h « Complexion |
C U reConsr.pahonJ>iz*in eS s. j n I
‘ a'geshon.Headoche.and all
Liver Affecfions.
Price Is.perbox.
DOS£-l-2 j , o3Pillsaf '
,$ Bed Time.
Mr. G. NTELL,
commercial tra-
veller, writing
from Hotel Met-
ropole, Sydney,
Feb. 20th, 1900,
says “Your
‘PEERO’ Pills
are a grand nerve
and appetite
maker. I swear by
them. They are in-
valuable for men.”
Australia is noted for the prevalence of serious stomach and liver diseases, caused
by the continuous use of heavy meat foods, and carelessness of diet and eatin*
ihe most serious diseases spring from stomach neglect, leading to expensive
operahons. The timely use of •• PEBRO ” Pills corrects and strengthens the
stomach makes new blood, gives nerve force, and keeps the liver healthy curing
the most chronic cases of constipation rapidly. It is the advance agent of Health"
and should be in every home. “ PEERO ” Pills preserve and prolong fife
A SURE CURE for INDIGESTION 8 CONSTIPATION.
I ATHLETE S TESTIMONY.—MR. W. BARKER,
°f King- Street, Newtown,' writesl was a
sutterer for years from Constipation so serious that
i looked upon myself as dead. I could never enjoy
* took ‘ PEEEO ’ Pills for four weeks, and
tney nave made me a new man. Your pills are, in
mj opinion, the best for constipation known."
• R »?« EL t’ V,ctona Street, Darling,
nf tv,’ vas known as the walking- ghost
of Darl.nghurst, I was so pale and bloodless I
an -- a for . years, which threatened decline
Your pdls are for women worth their weir fn
Rold. I HAVE TAKEN A NEW LEASE OF iVf
since taking ‘ PEERO ’ Pills.” LU'E
The ‘RAY’ CHEMICAL CO.
76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“Flite” Tyre Records
Season
1909
Ist.
VICTORIAN CYCLE TRADERS’ ROAD RACE. Distance, 100
miles. Held in Melbourne, August 28th.
The Ist, 3rd, 4th, sth and 6th Competitors to finish rode “FLITE ” Tyres.
2nd.
The BARNET GLASS ROAD RACE—BATHURST to SYDNEY.
Distance, J 33 miles. Held on September 4th.
The Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, sth and 6th, also Ist and 2nd Fastest Time
Riders, were fitted with “FLITE” Tyres.
It is also interesting to note that F. D. WALCOTT (the fastest time rider) constituted a
record over this course, his riding time being 7 hours 23 minutes 41 seconds.
3rd.
GOULBURN TO SYDNEY ROAD RACE. Distance, 131 miles.
Held on 18 th September.
The Ist and 2nd and Fastest Time Riders were also successful on
“FLITE” Tyres.
The above results constitute a Tyre Record, and undoubtedly
go to prove the superiority and reliability of these FAMOUS
“ FLITE ” TYRES above all others.
"“S""* BARNET GLASS RUBBER Co. Ltd.
234 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And all States.
THE IDEAL WINTER RESORT-
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medio w Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 1h hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JENOLAN CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday.
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLE REACH STREET, Telephone 4349.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from—
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney, The s y o e £ rlnary
GIVEN AWAY TO ALL CYiiLISTS
df
15. AND B.’S NEW CATALOGUE—I3O pages—a complete, up-to-date,
practical book, grandly illustrated, splendidly got up. All cyclists should
call or write for B. and B.’s New Catalogue, containing valuable infor-
mation regarding every detail of the Cycle and Motor Cycle World.
mailed free to any address.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-building 1
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and
Gastiereagrh Street, Sydney.
Jr.
&er
°«'e
yon
•SSST'c.
fi£r
•ft
"o ld
s*.
‘"r,
1/3.
It is quite impossible in this advertisement to (jive more' than a brief
outline of the contents of this most useful book, of which -we are selling
hundreds every day. It contains 151 pages of information upon every
home requisite, and 1100 recipes. Personal appearance eqSally with matters
of domestic management are prescribed for. There is not% matter for enquiry
from the laundry to the drawing room on which a lady, on turning to these pages,
will fail to find some valuable recommendation. Everything a Lady Should Know ”
should be in every woman’s possession. It is indispensable. The following are some of ti,„
with, and will be sufficient to show the value of this splendid book 8 1 the subjects dealt
HOUSEHOLD MATTERS & MANAGEMENT—Uses of;Ammonia—Cleanses the skin, relieves headache
stings, restores colours, brightens carpets, cleans windows etc • Acetic AoiH .* “eves neanacne,
rails, etc. BEVERAGES * bANpi ES ‘Lherbe^sodS
beer, ginger beer, lemonade, etc.; chocolates, caramels, toffees iuiubes bon hon« • snerDet ’ . a
SICK ROOM HINTS-COOKERY FOR. THE SICK.-A’pplewlVrXrtey Cream aouKavto
make beef tea, broths, gruels (all kinds) jellies, hot lemonade, toast, sandwiches, custards- DISEASES FTG
Accidents and emergencies poisons, cures for asthma, bee stings, bites, boils, sprains fractures bri
and burns, bunions, chapped hands, chilb ains, choking, cinders in eye, colds, diarrhoea drowhing ’earache
sneezing, sunburn, to remove obstructionl from eye ear'
etc. ’INFANT MANAGEMENT & CHILDREN^’s'DISEASES-Evwy'" dealt wl?h’
s a a\tli” P pfcJdTn.nf4tha h m pi £ k ' e L * nd , every kindTm?#:
frocks,’ fruit stains copper, lace, curtains, irons, laundry staint mackimolhet'se’tUng ralomsTe^p
it wb H en andsoften hands and arms, perspiration, eyebrows etc MISCEL-
IkS-h* seal*hottles??lean
bottles, tins, etc ; destroying vermin. raVs, wM'eantsi’etcTtoffi.’sh IFnksTto
‘j,uta P hild J in B anyoth^^o t k? r ind C t’h| tC ’ ,nd SC ° reS ° f ° ther pliceless wlillkles ’ hints ’ P-scrlptionsT’ete.. not
Price is only 1/3, nosl free anywhoro.
NOTH NEW ADDRESS:
A. J. SMITH & C 0„ 338-340 Kent Street, SYDNEY
Write for our new illustrated catalogue of Novelties, Puzzles, Bicycles, Cycle Accessories,
Rubber Stamps, etc., FREE.
homebody who has gone to infinite trouble has
«ept a list of the causes of all the accidents to aeroplanes,
and discovered the remarkable fact that during the last
three years every smash except one has been due to the
stopping of the engine. Of course an aeroplane will only
keep afloat as long as it is driven against the air, as it is
the pressure on its wings and planes that forces it up.
And this pressure can only be maintained while the
driving apparatus works. So, apparentlv, flying bv aero-
plane is a comparatively easy matter so long as the engine
is well looked after. The practice of going aloft single-
handed and having to attend to engine, steering, inclin-
ing the planes and all the rest of it is too much for
ol ?f man. To fly with safety, fit your aeroplane
with two or more cylinder engines, and take a com-
p*Dt engineer aloft to look after the motor ; then all
will be well. The solitary exception above-mentioned
"L aS - thafc of orville Wright ; his fall was caused bv a
chain breaking. The trouble seems to be due to the use
of specially light motors made expressly for aeroplanes,
i n which efficiency is sacrificed to save weight. Better to
have higher power, stronger engines and a reserve
cylinder in case of accident. Bleriot had no less than 50
falls owing to this cause before he made his sensational
flight across the Channel; then, getting tired of hitting
the ground so often, he got off his high-flyer and took a
course of instruction in the handling of motors. The re-
sult was that he crossed the Channel.
* * * *
“ Adelaide ” : The verdict on the present Aus-
trahan XI. remains the same at the end of its tour as that
offered in the middle—the luckiest team that ever went
Bondon wards, and the pluckiest. It is (collective! v) a crowd
only fairly-good as cricketers but unrivalled as fighters
Vyriter does not cry Over-ripe Fish, and is as pleased as
anybody at the Test results ; but it is no good blinkin'"
facts. The XI. has slaughtered various counties—notorF-
ously vveak, some of them—and even with them has made
some close finishes. Against the stronger teams—Kent,
'" U ‘i r^V;, )rkshi, - e and Lanca shire separately or together’
ana M.C.0.-it has just one win (over Lancashire) to its
c.sait. If it met any one'of them to-morrow, odds would
hardly be laid on it. Yet it won the Tests, for when
the real pinch came it just set its teeth and did
P er cent - better than its apparent best; while
the j-.naiishinen seem to have been mostly calling for
Mother—this latter fact is admitted by every En<dish
writer in different words. Therefore, three special
cheers for Noble and Cos. ! It is good for a land to have
players who can juggle with bat and ball better than the
other fellow ; but it is far better for her to breed sons
who beat opponents, equally good on paper, by a dis-
play of just those qualities which make for success in war
or ln any other department of life’s serious work.
The Bulletin rises gratefully to acknowledge
receipt of five more volumes of the now famous “ Health
and Strength Library.” These books supply a complete
manual in which the beginner can learn the art and
theory of athletic pastimes. The volumes just to
hand deal with cricket, tennis, camping, sailing
and diving. They are all good books, especially
those on camping, sailing and diving. Cricket
and tennis are also well handled, but are con-
siderably marred by a superfluity of pictures of “the
author.” No one cares a tinker’s hearse about “the
author”; the reader’s interest is centred in the yarn the
author has to tell. The “Practical Cricketer,” by J. N.
Ciawford, for instance, has on its cover a representation
of the author ” swinging a bat. The frontispiece is a
portrait of “ the author.” Then in the body of the book
there are 23 more pictures of “the author,” in various
attitudes with the tools of his trade. The author, unfor-
tunately, is not an Adonis; neither is he an Apollo; and
the reiteration of a young man ir. glasses posing with a
oat and then a ball becomes a great weariness, in spite of
the fact that some of the facial expressions are humorous
and the back views are mostly interesting in a way.
_* * * *
After its annual meeting week before last the
Melbourne Cricket Club called a special meeting, at which
it decided to borrow another £15,000 and admit 500 more
members. Herein it is likely that the M.C.O. has bitten
ott too much. Last year’s receipts were £824 less than
- vear before > an d last year’s accrued liabilities
ot ££3o4 have not been reduced by a penny. The club
has leased the Albert (late Warehousemen’s) Ground for
1“ years at £l5O a year, and is putting up tennis courts,
stands, e„c., there, which may pay or may not. Also the
v.G.A. is skirmishing round after another ground for
“ 8 inter-State and international matches, and the
r ootball League will assuredly use the Carlton ground,
instead of the M.C.O. ground, for its finals as soon as
the managing committee has put up another stand or
two. The trouble, of course, is the deadheads. For
be things at Saturday’s semi-final were only
£I3OO, though the attendance was roughly 30,000. Out
of that £I3OO, the ground expenses are first paid, then
the Cricket Club collars all the half-crowns (the reserve ad-
missions) and 4d. in every shilling paid to enter the outer
ground. And on top of this, while the members can sit
or stroll about at their ease, the paying public has to
stand, packed like sardines. Now the M.C.C. proposes
to take in 500 more members—which means 1500 more
deadheads. How long the V.O.A. and the League will
stand the imposition remains to be seen. When they
decide to quit, the M.C.C. is liable to find itself in the
soup. And that borrowed £15,000 will be a heavy baby
to nurse.
*■*■■**
“Oby”: “ Why haven’t you a round football?”
ii j ln . a l spell-oh, while, the Redfern barraokers
slaked their thirst. The query was a conundrum. It
was, worth a lot to heay the amateur scientists explaining I
w y.” The most acceptable solution was that the
oval ball struck the air cleaner. “But why?” Some-
body started the history of football, and was laboring
heavily through the processes of covering the stuff with
one thing and another when Policeman X intervened.
The policeman was an old Victorian footballer, and he
knocked the company by his asseveration that the oval
ball was first introduced into Australian play by the South
Varra club, and the reason of it was that all the abilities of
the saddler and committee couldn’t make the thing
round. It turned out such a success, however, in the
first day’s play that all Australia cried out for oval balls.
(Continued on page SO.)


HEAD TO FEET
Five Doctors Treated this Bad Case
Irritation was Terrible —Suf-
fered forYearsand Got No Relief —
Friend also Had a Rash on Face.
TWO COMPLETELY
CURED BY CUTICURA
"I had seen five doctors in regard to
my trouble and not one of them gave
me any ease. My disease was psoriasis
and it was a particularly bad case,
which affected me from my head to my
feet and the irritation was terrible. I
was advised to try the Cuticura Reme-
dies which I did. In the first place
before retiring I used to take a fairly hot
bath with Cuticura Soap and after that
I used to rub the Cuticura Ointment
into the skin. The Cuticura Soap of
course was used every time I washed
and at every bath. My case being a
very bad one it naturally took longer to
make a good impression. But after
persevering day after day for about
three weeks or a month, I seemed to
make fair progress. I first started to
use Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment about July, 100 G, and my cure as
near as I can remember was complcto
about October of the same year. During
that period I had no medical adviser.
I had suffered with it for some years,
but it seems to have completely van-
ished. If I were troubled with it again,
the first thing I should do, and aclvico
any of my friends to do, would be to ugo
the Cuticura Soap and Cuticpra Oint-
ment on the first signs of any skin
troubles and not let it gain such a held
as it did on me the last time. A littlo
time back, a friend of mine suffered
from a rash on the face and I recom-
mended the Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment which put him right in a very
short time without medical aid. Alfred
Levy, 1, Winkfield Rd., Lordship Lane,
Wood Green, N.. Eng., Mar. 23. ’08.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Asinglo treatment consisting cf a warm
bath with Cuticura Soap, gentle appli-
cation of Cuticura Ointment and mild
dose of Cuticura Pills, is often suffi-
cient to afford instant relief, permit rest
and sleep and point to a speedy cure of
torturing, disfiguring eczemas, rashes,
itchings, irritations and inflammations
of the skin and scalp, from infancy
to age, when all else fails.
Cuticura Remedies are sold wherever the British
Flag floats. Depots: I.ondon, 27, Charterhouse Sq.;
Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney: U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston.
osr~Post free, 32-page book giving description,
treatment and cure of torturing Skin Diseases.
gfd
gdfg
dg
NERVOUS
TROUBLES.
EVERY NERVOUS MAN should
trv the OLD ENGLISH HOME
REMEDIES. The REST and CHEAP-
EST in the WORLD for the SPEEDY
OUREof Nervousness, Loss of Energy,
Despondency, etc.
These invaluable remedies have
cured thousands (hundreds of whom
had sriven up all hope), and they will
CURE YOU.
Every man should read our IN-
TERESTING BOOKLET, which we
will send FREE by post. Write for obe TO-DAY.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 5, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
If cleaned with
Try this
SPECIAL
line of
Derby
Shoe,
in Welted or
Pump Soles,
Best Glac6
Kid, with
Patent Caps
and Cuban
Heels.
Price,
16/6
Postage 9d.
exura.
LEEMING’S
Gazeka Shoe Paste
(6d. per tin),
the Wear is Guaranteed.
Send for Price Lists—Free. ’Phone 1799.
LEEMING’S Shoe Stores,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAX A TINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
The Peerless Aperient.
The Gentle Regulator.
The Lollie-like Laxative.
The Cure for Constipation.
Sold by AH Chemists.
Equally Good for Children and
Adults.
ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Honlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Honlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Stanch.
No confusibn arises when you order Horlick’s, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of Hor lick’s as in other foods —water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd., Slough, Bucks, England.
k
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es &. Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.’’
290 & 292 Bo « rke Street,
OU 1 lUWO, Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
By Appointment.
GEREBOS
SALT
GUARANTEED
PURE, WHOLESOME
AND BENEFICIAL.
Agents—Harrison <&“ Attmood, Sydney.
54
FAT
PEOPLE
Let us cure you of
Obesity and re-
move your excess
fat. We have cured many thausands of
obesity sufferers. We have the only harm-
less and non-poisonous remedy ever known.
“FAT CURE 55
acts mildly, gradually and effectively. No
matter whether the fat has attacked your
hips, stomach or bust, “Fatcure” will re-
move it. In many cases five pounds a week
has been removed, with perfect health fol-
lowing the reduction. . . . Our remedy is
certain, and no successful imitation has ever
been created. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE
SAMPLE and Descriptive Booklet, or, if
convenient, call. Flours: 9 a.m. to sp.m.
WRITE or CALL without any delay.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St. , Sydney .
df
MS. i
WmPT)
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES* PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2£d.).
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
That Have Caught On!
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover —full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia —you
ought to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E.Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage, sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
BACK AT OU!>
SELECTION.
Duncan McClure, by
“ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
(The above two com-
bined); price, cloth,
3/6 ; postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by
“ Steele ltudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection,
by “Steele Rudd”;
price, paper, 1/- > pos-
tage 3d.
From Selection to City,
by “ Steele Rudd ” ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd”; price, paper, 1/-
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “ Steele Rudd ” ; price, paper
1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/6
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by
Chas. De Boos ; price,
cloth, 1/- ; postage 4d.
Do., paper, !/•; post-
age, 3d.
On the Fringe of the
Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham ; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James
Green ; price, paper,
X/-; postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by
Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by C. D.
Websdale; price, cloth,
1/-; postage 3d.
rv&sirt
LECTION
am
.
'■*c‘ _i
■
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by A. Pratt
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
You should use an
Edison Business
Phonograph.
If you dictate to your stenographer until
noon, and your stenographer spends part of
her afternoon studying her notes and part
of it coming to you with enquiries as to
what you really said—when are your letters
ready for your signature ?
If you dictate to an Edison Business
Phonograph, your stenographer can be
typewriting - these letters while you dictate.
She has no notes to decipher and no ques-
tions to ask. She writes what she hears—
writes rapidly and correctly, and your
letters all go out the day they are dictated.
Surely such an instrument would be of
great use to you ? Send for a descriptive
booklet on the subject—and send NOW !
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP ” —Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George.
Street, Sydney.
“0.K.”: Re the alleged degeneracy of, English
people and the public evidences thereof, “ Silas Snell " sub-
mits firstly the proposition that pugilism, so far from being
a “ sport” of popular interest, was nev r so unpopular in
England as it is to-day. Secondly, he submits that “this
indifference to fist-fighting is some evidence of the deca-
dence of John Bull’s stock.” Now, I am with Silas as
regards his contradiction of the absurd British sociologist
Who professes to have discovered a growing reverence for
prize-fighters in the Cold Country. But I don’t regard
this indifference to professional pugilism as evidence of
national decadence, although, as an Englishman myself,
I think that John Bull’s stock is deteriorating. 1
would submit that the blackguardism and dis-
honesty of the old prize-ring brought it into
final disrepute in England some 40 years ago, up
to which time pedestrianism also had been kept going
by the gilded “mugs” of the sporting world. Having
been born into that sporting world, I know something of
the decline and fall of professional pugilism, pedestrian-
ism and sculling. Prizefights with bare knuckles, fought
in the open, were matter for voluminous newspaper
report when I was a small boy. The tomb of Tom Sayers
in Highgate Cemetery had not ceased to be the Mecca of
all who wore check suits and a knowing expression. I
devoured in my youth miles of stereotyped descriptions
of “ merry mills ” and “ willing goes ” in the columns of
Bbli/s Life, the chosen organ of pugilism, and I remem-
ber how imputations of dishonesty crept into those pic-
turesque and letters “to the editor” became
sarcastic in tone, and old patrons of the Noble Art were
said to have wearied of being “taken down” for the
money they had put up. Prize-fighting, as a sport for
gamblers, ceased to be discussed seriously. It went the
way of cock-fighting, which was the amusement of the
gilded mugs in Hogarth’s time. The professors of
the Noble Art and their villainous companions killed
the geese that laid the golden eggs. And when
the “ toffs” turned their backs on the prize ring, which
had long been an offence against the law, there was no
more influence to prevent the police from arriving on the
scene of action at the outset of proceedings, instead of
getting there when the fight was finished. The game
was thoroughly rotten. In the interests of publicdeceney
it was suppressed. Prize fighting being impossible,
“glove contests” came into vogue under more respect-
able conditions. Boxing among amateurs is as popular
in England to-day as ever it was, but the public have
inherited from their forefathers a profound distrust of
professional fighters. Has the leopard changed his spots
because the police have compelled him to put on mittens?
The people in general may be physically decadent, but
they are not the fools their fathers were. They
look with contempt at the National Sporting Club,
where mugs find a bulky purse—ten times as
bulky as the purses that ' Sayers fought for of
old—and a pair of pugs “cut it up.” The
public crowd to football matches in any part of Britain.
Cricket is still a game to be taken seriously, though it is ■
psst the heyday of its popularity. But professional ,
fighting—foot racing—rowing! These things are beneath
intelligent enthusiasm. There’s no honesty in them—in
England. They are mugs’ games, as regards the johnnies
who provide the stakes and back the favorite. A local
international contest for a sculling championship would
still attract the attention of the multitude, on the
assumption that- the foreign visitor would neither buy nor
sell the race. But England has no more champions on
the river. Her strong men are fewer in number than of
old, and for those few there is n 0 inducement to devote
their inUseles to sports that have lost caste. In the
young countries, where “champions” are likely to be
very reputable citizens, it is hard for sporting enthusiasts
to understand that a professional match-making athlete
in England is regarded by 99 per cent, of the educated
public as a potential criminal, whilst his educated patrons
are thought of as fools.
* * •* “*
Passed the winning post, aged 61, Harry
Dawes, who, as “H. Chiffney,” rode J. Harper’s
3-year-old Banker in the third Melbourne Cup in ’63.
Starting at 10 to 1, under the feather-weight of sst. 41b.,
“Chiff” brought his mount home two lengths ahead of
Musidora. A son, H. U. Dawes, since dead, steered
Patron in ’94.
OXYGEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arrangements were made with a well-known dentist to
administer oxygen, and he took to the oval two tubes,
supposed to contain about 100 gallons each of compressed
air. At half-time Mr. Williams gave between four and
five gallons of the oxygen to each of the 10 hardest
workers, and it had a remarkable effect on them. One of
the players, who had done a tremendous amount of fol-
- lowing, and was thoroughly fagged when he entered the
dressing-room, remarked later on that he felt as if he had
had an hour’s rest. —News item.
’Twas the half-time intermission and the teams came
dragging in ;
They were weary, hot and thirsty as they shouldered
through the crowd ;
But the wily secretary wore a sweet and happy grin
As he gave them some instructions in a tone which
wasn’t loud.
They were eighteen men and eager as they tumbled
through the door,
Which the trainers locked behind them with a large,
impressive key,
While the dentist got his tubes out and inflated from his
store
Till the men who had been panting were as fresh as
fresh could be.
As the starting bell rang wildly in the field beyond the
fence,
All the eighteen cantered freshly to resume the windy
fray ;
But the other men limped sadly from their room—fair
evidence
They’d been merely rubbed and rested in the ordinary
way.
When the bouncing of the ball sent each spectator off
his head,
All the oxygen supporters had a brief, delirious spell,
For the men who’d been inflated from their iaded foemen
fled,
And the blessCd game seemed over—till a shrill,
ferocious yell
From the anguished secretary split the air, and those
around
Saw him point a shaking finger that was stubbv—also
fat—
At the oxygenised captain who was sitting on the ground
With a genial expression. “ What th’ H i’s he
laughing at ? ”
At that instant did the oval soar between the shaking
posts,
And the oxygens no longer held the lead that they had
won.
And high up above the shrieking of the two opposing
hosts
Came the secretary’s wailing, “ What's that blanky
dentist done 1 ”
All about the field were sprawling in exhausted attitudes,
Eighteen oxygen absorbers, and they rolled upon the
earth,
While the frenzied crowd howled loudly the accustomed
platitudes,
And demanded most profanely explanations for their
mirth.
But the high squeak of a whistle called a badly-needed
truce,
And the rabble stilled their tumult as a doctor o’er the
grass
Towards the oxygenised captain hurried like the very
deuce
And discovered—Savage Reader, they had swallowed
laughing gas !
Now a tattered pennant flutters from a grandstand far
away,
And a dentist works his torture in the slums of slow
Pekin ;
For although there’s not much filling in the people of
Cathay,
He prefers them to the backers of the men of oxygen..
N.S.W.
GOAL POST.


1
iW
■V-if
85
IN
Have You Tried Film
Photography with a Kodak ?
hand SimpllClty the keynote of Kodak Film Photography. It matters not whether yon are an old
dat camera craft or a novice—the Kodak is delightfully easy, and wonderfully satisfactory.
put in aJirat poleT f ThSsTo did Slhlf *" ™ ‘° ““*“*«*
in da y XanT 7 *” ‘** Y °“ “ «“* « and develop
The films are extremely handy—so Ifeht, so reliable, so compact. If you want to make a lore tour ™, r .„
east y carry plenty without any trouble. They are the result of years of experimentation in Te best coubped
photographic house in the world, and have never been equalled by any of the numerous imitations. So when voJLk
for a Kodak, or for Film, specify “ Eastman’s "-that’s the test of quality. 7
Mo. 0 Folding Pocket Kodak
This neat little camera opens or closes by
one instantaneous movement. Its pic-
tures measure 2£in. x Igin., and it loads
in daylight for (l or 12 exposures.
It has a good lens, an everset shutter,
three stops and a brilliant finder!
Weight. 12 ounces. Price 26/- Post-
age 9d. ; Inter-State, 1/2.
11ns camera weighs only 41oz. and embraces all the practical
features of cameras several times its bulk, yet still retains
the Kodak simplicity, making it satisfactory for novice
or expert
lakes pictures x 5/rin.—the popular postcard size—
and is fitted with a rapid rectilinear lens and the F.P K
automatic shutter, two tripod sockets, a brilliant reversible
finder,with hood, and an automatic focussing lock
Price £4/10/- Postage 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2.
No. 1 Folding Pocket Kodak
I liis compact little camera takes pictures
2jiti. x SJi'n:, and has a capacity of 12
exposures without reloading'. It possesses
a Meniscus achromatic lens, the pocket
Automatic shutter, and a brilliant rever-
sible finder.
Ihe camera weighs but IGoz., and can
•be carried in an overcoat pocket. Price
£2/21- Postage 1/-; Inter-State, 1/8.
Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Australian Kodak Limited,
379 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q.
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
No. J5BB. “ New Design ” Silver
plated Rose Bowl, £l/7/6.
No. 365A.—Silverplar.ed Fern Pot,
4Jin., 18/6 ; 4fin., 22/6 ; 6in., 32/6
Hi949.—Al Quality Silverplated
Centre*piece. Price, £4.
TABLE DECORATIONS.
t Illustrated Catalogue, bent to any address. We pay postage to any part of the Commonwealth.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
■Strand Corner, George Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
No. JsB7.—Silver pin ted
Su&ffr Shaker, 17/6.
No. H4BB.—Fluted, Chased
and Silverplated Fern Pot,
4*in.. 12/6.
*si
No. F6s42.—Engraved
and Silverplated
Flower Vase, 6lin.
hiffh, 11/6.
a
No. <58303. Very Handsome Flower and Fruit Centrepiece.
No glass to break. A 1 Quality Silverplate on Nickel
Silver, £7/10/-
ij'
1^
1 :•
No. JGlO; Magnificent Flower Centrepiece, A 1 Quality Silverplate,
with Chased Tops. Price, £5/5/-
No. JsSt>, Silverplated
Sugar Shaker, 13/6.
No. JsSs. —Smaller size,
10/6.
No. .1937. —Ster-
ling-Silver Flower
Vase, 26/-
No. G 3159.— Sil-
verplated Flowi r
Vase, llin., 30/-
No. G4299.—Chased and Silverplated
Rose Bowl, £l/15/.
iiii! ill
No. G4S9B.—Smail size Silverplated
Rose Bowl, 7/G.
No. G2426.—Silverplated and Chased
Centrepiece, £5/5/-


The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough Rem-
edy is pleasant to take has make it a favorite with
mothers everywhere.*
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough Rem-
edy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite with
mothers every wtiere.*
Terrible Fate.
It’s a terribly fate tp suffer from serious lung
trouble. Warjd,, with Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. Price, is. 6d. and 3s.*
CAMBRIC
DRESS
To Order 21 -
DO you know what our 10 l /2.d.
yd. Cambric is like?
It is a fine quality, and it is
stocked in the newest shades and the
smartest designs.
Well, we’ll make you a dress of
any pattern you like—we'll send you
samples —for 2//-
Cheap ? Of course it's cheap !
Haven't we always said that “ you
can't beat Finney's " ?
One of Finney's Guinea Dresses,
crowned with a Finney Guinea Hat
and there you are!
When shall we make them for you
and save you money ?
FINNEY, ISLES
& co., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
“ Myrtle ” : The Presbyterian meenistei
—T. IS. Crawford—(mentioned B. 9/9/’O9) who
seems likely to break his commandments and
slay Johnson. M.H.R. of Lang, is the youngest
brother of Crawford who is opposing Henri
Cowap for the Mount Morgan district (Queens-
land). There’s something wholesome about
the Crawford politics. Both brothers are
Labor advocates, and opposed to freak Govern-
ments —Fusions and Phidstons and the like.
Crawford of Queensland came into prominence
at the time of the big accidents at the Mount
Morgan mine (September-November, 1908). He
created a Miners’ Union, and represented it at
the inquiry which followed the accidents. Mount
Morgan folk had never had a union before, and
they felt slightly lost, muddled or drunk over it ;
but, like the beer habit, it grew on them, and
Cowap, a follower of Kidston (over a variety of
tracks) now looks like Johnson.
The way Kidston is conducting this cam-
paign makes his old friends moan. About the
grandest feature of his democratic career was his
honesty at election times. He made it plaiii
wherever he went that any request for a railway,
a loan, a road or any other Treasury gift would be
considered an insult ; and he steadfastly refused
to promise any of these things. But the present
campaign is being conducted on the old boodle
plan. Kid-Philp candidates are trailing promises
and scattering loans all over the country ; and
when they turn up in warm Corners or get into
tight places they wave telegrams promising any-
thing from a culvert to a viaduct. When Kids-
ton sits down calmly and considers it all, what a
horribly disgusted Phidston he must be? No
wonder he begins to wear a worried look.
“ Moorabinda ” : Apropos “ Lance wood’s ”
rum-yarn (B. 29/7/’O9), it is impossible to be up to
all the tricks and wiles of the bullocky. Witness
the following. An old Queensland hand had
often been bowled out. After sampling the con-
tents of wine and brandy casks, he sometimes
filled up the vacuum with water and sometimes
not, the result being disastrous in either case. It
was to be his last trip on that route, 300 miles
from the seaport to the copper mines. The only
liquor on the dray was a quarter cask of brandy,
and the bullocky was specially warned not to
touch this. If he did, Hell would break loose.
He was told that the cask had been weighed, and
so any abstraction would be noticed, and that,
as for any attempt to make good his stealings
with water, a sample bottle had gone up in the
mail-bag to the copper mines, and it would
be compared with the contents of the cask
as received. But all these precautions failed
badly. The brandy was duly conveyed 300
miles to the mines, was weighed and found all
right, and was sampled and found up to the mark.
So Robert, the bullocky, got his receipt and
departed. The brandy cask was a 30-gallon one,
and, after 10 gallons had been used, the tap
refused to yield any more. It was supposed to
have got choked, as the cask was clearly not
empty—not even nearly empty, so its weight told.
But all attempts to make the tap act proved use-
less. So further investigation was made, and
then a tale of horror came to light. Bob had
taken his precautions well. After he received the
boss’s unwise warnings, he went forth and pro-
cured a consignment of clean sheeps’ bladders.
He spiled the cask and partly filled a bladder
with brandy, and through the bunghole he intro-
duced another bladder with the same quantity and
weight of water in it, and so on till he had
removed 20 gallons of the brandy. The cask on
arrival contained 10 gallons of spirit and 20 gallons
of water in sheep’s bladders. But Bob hud
departed to distant shores ere this was discovered.
Though it did hang on to Tommy Tanna,
and half-persuade itself that the white man was
no good for the North, Queensland never had
much truck with the Stinking Fish policy. Still
it evidently finds it hard work to persuade itself
that it can make condensed and preserved milk
as well as the foreigner. In the last five years
this condensed milk business has simply leaped
ahead, arid the exports have rushed up the scale
like this :
1904 41,1841 b.
1905 301,547,,
1906 621,081,,
1907 793,924,,
1908.. . .. 1,921,539,,
Yet, while the outsider has been rushing Queens-
land’s condensed milk like this, Queensland has
increased its importsof foreign milk from 894,8591 b.
in 1904 to 985,6021 b, in 1908. Probably, as the
Queensland Agricultural Department suggests,
the increase in the use of foreign milk while the
local article is available is just the result of stupid
prejudice in favor of old familiar brands ; but all
the same, if Queenslanders persist in passing their
own milk by and paying the extra price for the
foreigner's goods, the State can’t blame the
foreigner if he presently passes the Queensland
goods bv too. “It looks all right and it tastes all
right,” he will argue; “ but these people who
ought to know how it’s made won’t touch it—and
that’s a good enough tip for me.” Asa matter of
fact, it is made under supervision which isn’t
equalled anywhere else in the world ; but it won’t
be much use telling that to the foreigner. If
Queensland wants to keep its industry it had
better, therefore, promptly throw the previously-
mentioned prejudice overboard.
The fact that seven Phidstonites were
returned unopposed was a had beginning for the
Queensland elections. It suggests that the Labor
organisation isn’t nearly so perfect as was sup-
posed, for the occasion is one on which every
Phidstonite should he made to run hard for
his money. The party which goes to the poll
with seven seats already won has some prestige to
start with. The Phidstonites made no such mis-
take on their side ; only two Labor men have got
in without a fight.
Altogether 145 candidates have been nomi-
nated for the Queensland Assembly elections.
E. G. C. Barton (Brisbane North), W. J. H.
Moore (Murilla), P. F. Hanran (Townsville), and
John Adamson (Maryborough), who were in the
last Assembly, are not up this time. Of these
Adamson is the only Laborite. Seventy-six of
the candidates are Phidstonites, 53 Laborites, and
16 Independents (mostly Blairites). In nine elec-
torites—Albert, Aubigny, Cunningham, Dalby,
Flinders, Gregory, Logan, Norntanby and
Stanley—there will be no contest, as the old
members have been returned unopposed. Seven
of these—Appel (Home Secretary), Thorn, Gray-
son, Bell, Stodart, Fox and Somerset—are Minis-
terialists ; and the other two, May and Hamilton,
are Laborites. In 23 of the single electorates the
fight is between a Phidstonite and a Laborite ;
in six, between a Phidstonite and an Independent;
in four, between two Phidstonites ; and in three
the contest will he among a Phidstonite, a Labor-
ite and an Independent. In seven of the 11
double electorates two Ministerialists will oppose
two Laborites ; in two others a Laborite and an
Independent are running together against two
Ministerialists ; in Drayton and Toowoomba (a
double constituency) two Ministerialists, two
Independents and a Laborite are in the field ; and
in Rockhampton two Laborites and an In-
dependent are opposing Kidston and Grant.
Quite a legion of have-beens are up in the
Phidstonite interest. Among them are Macartney,
Bouchard, Kellett, Tolmie, Summerville, O’Keeffe
and Bridges.
THE HENPECKED WORM.
THE HEN: "Get hout, yer miserable crawlin’ little worm! If yer teas ’arf a man yer’d come
an turn the mangle fer yer pore slavin’ wife.”
THE WORM: “No, Ear ah, I may he a worm , hut I ain’t one wot turns.”
“ Flinderino’s ” tale
Mulgrave Mick was one of th ■ principal items at the
Sugarville show. Mick is a Bananaland native, also a
mighty consumer of beer. He arrived at Sugarville a
week before the show, and accepted a billet as general
rouseabout at the Plug Hotel. Michael was 6ft. 6in. long
with a beam to match, and as a remover of lighting
characters he was pre-eminent, hence his engagement at
the Plug Hostelry. A brewery traveller from Brisbane
came up. He wished to take advantage of the show to
advertise his firm’s beer, and with that object in view he
enlisted the services of Mulgrave Mick. The idea was
this: Mick would he the principal character in a grand
tableau representing The Ancient Gods Drinking Bung
and Co.’s Famous Ale. The tableau was to be arranged
on a lorry ; and Mick, togged up as Bacchus, would be
seated ori a throne of barrels and would hold in his hand
a goblet of the famous ale. Big Mick and the brewery
representative came to terms.
On the most important day of the show the tableau
lorry, with decorated gee-gees, took its place near the
hand in the grand trades’procession. The principal streets
of Sugarville were paraded, and then a course was set
for the show grounds. Cheers greeted the hefty Bacchus
who, with clockwork regularity, held the goblet up to
the light, drank the nle, then, with an approving smile,
passed the vessel down to be refilled. The brewery-man
presided at a full keg on the floor of the lorry, and he
also kept tally of the number of drinks supplied. The
agreement between Mick and the brewery gentleman was
that Mick should receive 10s. for his services for the day,
but 3d. was to be deducted for every goblet of ale tie
consumed.
All went well ; and on arrival at the grounds the God
of Wine grew merry, and livened up proceedings by
singing a comic song and executing a step-d nice on a
hogshead. Things grew even merrier when Mick passed
the goblet to be once again refilled, but met with a
refusal. Bung and Co.’s representative explained things
to Mick, and the ancient god exploded: “What d’yer
say, yer blaggard ! I’ve emptied the barrel, have IL!
And I’ve drank me 10 bob, have I!!! And I owe the
blanky brewery over six bob as well, do I!! ! ! I’ll show
you ”
But the local Mister Macmannummnny stepped in and
spoiled a good scrap. Half an hour later, Bacchus was
lumbering peacefully under the lorry.
Died lately, at Gympie (Queensland), John
Flood, aged 68. He came out to Westralia with
John Boyle O’Reilly, as an assisted—or rather a
violently-shoved—immigrant, on a charge ot no
being sufficiently full of applause re the British
government of Ireland. When he got his
“ticket” he moved to Sydney, and started the
Trish Citizen, with an office at 6 Park-street.
The paper died at the end of 20 months.
time after that Flood was on the literary staff of the
Brisbane Courier, under Editor O’Carroll. La-ter,
he was at Cooktown, where he married a bright
Tasmania girl, who afterwards became the mother
of six ; and he spent the last 30 years of his life
at Gympie.
The Quarterly Revision Courts sit on
October 5 to overhaul the lists and hear claims for
enrolment ; and Phidston fixed the general elec-
tions for October 2. It suggests that the old
crowd has no faith in the new generation of
voters, and wants to rule out as many of them as
it can. The incident recalls the anger of Kidston
away bade in 1896. The Tory and black-labor crowd
of that day was an expert in electioneering dodgery
and Kidston was so horrified that he proposed
an Act of Parliament making it impossible for an
unscrupulous Government to fix election day in
such a way as to disfranchise large numbers of
electors. His idea then was that a special revision
court should follow every dissolution, the revised
rolls to be used for the elections. And now Kid-
ston, having borrowed his enemy’s coat, fixes the
elections for October 2 —three days ahead of the
revision court !
“Yaelua” writes to explain the decay of
the wheat-farming business in Queensland (B.
22/7/’O9): —
Yesterday I met a farmer, native of Ulmarra (N.S.W.),
who some four or five years ago sold out there, and moved
to the Darling Downs. Told me he was home for a trip
had done well on the Downs, and had sold out there to
advantage. Said Queensland offered far better opportu-
nities than the Clarence River district; so he was off again
northward in a couple of days to get another farm. But
on the Coast this time —no more wheat farming for him.
He’d had enough of wheat. Asked what was the matter
with wheat-fanning; he replied that there was coo much
excitement about it f>t him. Told him I wouldn’t have
thought it. He said that the excitement catne in at har-
vesting time, owing to the scarcity of labor, and the risk
of losing most of the crop before it could be harvested.
And apparently the man who had made a little fortune
out of wheat-farming never thought of offering better
wages, though clearly the business could have stood it.
He just offered the same miserable old pittance, and,
when he couldn’t get men to work for it, he decided
that wheat was too exciting.
Townsville’s Municipal Council is thinking
of installing a steam tram service, like Rockhamp-
ton’s. Of the seven miles of line mapped out for
Phidston’s city, two miles are beng worked, and
the council is raking in £SO per week, which leaves
more than enough for interest and loan-redemp-
tion. When the lines are complete Rockhampton
still reckons that it will have a profitable asset;
wherefore Townsville, where‘they only have a
’bus service at present, is asking Philp what he
thinks about it—the idea being, u>f course, that
Philp should borrow the money from the Phidston
Government.
“ S.R.” : The Australian troops get very
little shooting practice ; in fact there seems to be
a sort of understanding that shooting is only a
secondary consideration. Our defence may be
classified under two heads : (1) 16,000 troops who
know a little of drill and tactics and not much
about shooting, and (2) a large body of riflemen
who can shoot a bit but know nothing of drill.
The most serious defect in the system of Common-
wealth defence is the awful shooting of the militia
men. It has become so bad in Bananaland that
the Brisbane newspapers have got into the habit
of suppressing the scores when military teams
compete against rifle clubs. It is a harmful sort
of kindness.
Good-bye.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JUST this—Good-bye. The Queensland hills
are green
With rolling verdure, and the purple seas
Whisper and sigh, and sing again and sigh ;
And I, too, whisper longingly, “ Good-bye.”
I bare my breast to the caressing breeze.
And muse on many things that might have been.
Your rocky hills are voiceless, and the trees
Make not a murmur, though the wavelets sing,
Here at their feet in crooning melodies,
The tender rune through all else echoing.
And I, too, sing; and you are silent still;
Ah, but it is enough that you are nigh :
I am the sea, and you the listening hill :
The tide is ebbing and the sands are dry :
The breezes sink in silence : Love, good-bye.
QUEENSLAND.
JAMES WEBB.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 18, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah.—
The whereabouts of the lately-projected Town
Hall has been the subject of worried questioning,
but inquiries have revealed that for once the city
fathers are not to blame. It is the architects this
time. They were ordered to prepare a joint plan,
and indulged instead in competitive designs.
These had, of course, to be fought and argued
over. Now at length a combined effort is to be
made, and the more hurried aldermen threaten to
lay the stone upon Separation Day, December 10,
plan or no plan.
The Gerard Gores, of a family whose old-time
land-gathering proclivities provided them with
much affluence, have acquired the handsome
home erected by Tramway Badger next to the
Toowong terminus, and will take up their resi-
dence there very shortly.
Frances Ross, looking not a whit older than she
did many years ago. has arrived in town, and
under the guidance of Geo. Portus, will commence
to be a thorn in the side of Walter Baker at the
chief play-house on Saturday night. The Bentley
co. has started out upon its barn-storming maraud,
which will include Townsville, the golden Towers,
and other hamlets.
The White Star liner Pericles, which, if it does
not hang up on Smith’s Rock or some other
obstruction, will clear this port about October 22,
takes quite a heap of well-known people Pog-
wards. Mrs. Hertzberg (the pretty one) sauls m
search of health, and Mrs. Gerald Hanbury is also
of the list.
Two life contracts will be entered into on
Wednesday, when Miss Annie Macdonald and
Mr. Mant, and Dr. Jean Thompson and her sugar
refiner will be made two, whereas they are now
four. The refiner’s name is Cyril Gunther.
One of the most interesting of Australians that
1 have met for ages is one John Allan, a native of
an Ipswich tribe that hunted the dodgy kangaroo
long before the Captain Cook episode. He was
brought into touch with civilisation by the late John
Collins, of Mundooluh Station, over 50 years ago,
and he is still doing his little bit at improving
by fire and axe that lovely old home. When quite
a youngster he taught himself to read a little by
means of the letters scrawled upon woolpacks and
other loading, and, seeing this, the family lent a
hand, with the result that John writes a very
legible paw. He was for years a mail carrier in
the far west, till blight destroyed the sight of one
eye. So he returned to his old home. He is a
courteous, kindly olj man, who reads the papers
and has interesting views upon a lot of subjects.
He regards the chronicles of Tom Petrie as a
perfect holding of the mirror up to Nature in so
far as black brother is reflected in the said mirror.
Recently, when the morning tea rush was on at
the Eschenhagen tea shop, imbibers of the
Cingalese cup were much struck by the array of
wedding cakes on view. • There were about nine
of them. The very finest was embellished with
strings of sausages, miniature hams, pigs, sides of
bacon and a heap of such produce, all done in
sugar. The daughter of John Reid (of pineapple
ham fame) is to wed the eldest son of old James
Chapman, and the confection with the sugar pigs
and sundries on it was hers.
As an aftermath of the Dudley visitation, there
have appeared a fine crop of “ by special appoint-
ment” cards of great size and magnificence, bear-
ing. beside much emblazoning, the signature of
Dicky Nevill. These have caused such a boom
in the picture-framing business that orders simply
can’t be executed. The cards have already been
displayed by two chemists, one toe-nail expert,
seven fruiterers, a grocer, a stationer and sundry
butchers and bakers. It is noticeable that the
favored ones are those whose establishments make
a point of “strictly moderate prices.”
Sincerely yours,
MARIO.


METALLIFEROUS QUEENSLAND.
Queensland contains beneath the surface of her soil
all the minerals which go to make a great
industrial nation.
Not only has she magnificent deposits of the royal
metals-—gold and silver—but she is equally well
endowed with the industrial minerals.
Side by side with her great gold and copper mines,
Queensland in the future will be one of the
world s greatest producers of
silver, TIN AND WOLFRAM
Itie mountainous parts of Queensland, which are
unsuitable for pastoral or agricultural pur-
suits, are rich m splendid deposits of minerals,
boat, iron, limestone, fireclay, manganese, wolfram,
graphite and molybdenite exist in juxtaposi-
lion, and near to Lines of railway.
1 here is nothing to prevent Queensland from
becoming one of the greatest of the world's pro-
ducers of iron and steel.
One of the strongest factors in future wealth-
making in Queensland is the marvellous extent
of the deposits of tin throughout the Mate
Capital and labor alike will find employment in
these great fields in the immediate future.
Queensland To-Day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXXVIII.
TIN AND OTHER METALS.
By J. D. Fitz Gerald, Barrister-at-Law.
L^uUS^° W tal , <e an important group of products
ot the Queensland soil, at the head of which I
p ace tin. So far as the value of the minerals pro-
duced in Queensland is concerned, tin should have
ieen given precedence of copper, as it has up to
date given more valuable results. Here is a com-
parison of the total values of the product of each •
Value of copper raised since 1860 .. £5,430 182
Value of tin raised since 1872 .. 6,607 965
jGotigwith tin I will place such minerals as silver,
bismuth, wolfram, manganese, lead, molybdenite,
limestone, ironstone, sheelite, graphite and fire-
clay. home of these valuable products have only
recently been discovered and worked. Thus of
wolfram, which has been worked since 1895, a pro-
duct valued at £446,000 has been won.
Tin is found over a wide area of Queensland.
Trom Stanthorpe, near the N.S.W. border, to
Crovdon, near the Gulf of Carpentaria, the fields
are dotted here and there. It is a desirable pro-
duct on account of the price, which is, of course
by the worl( 3’s demand and supply. In
V was valued at £lBO 12s. lid. per ton ; and
m 1907 at £172 12s. 9d. Queensland is capable of
giving inexhaustible supplies of the raw material
tor the important tin-plate manufacture, for the
upkeep of the world-wide manufacture of brass
br °i lZ u’ pewte . r ’ printers’ type and solder. It is
said that the tin markets of the world are governed
to a great extent by the tin production of the
straits Settlements. In the islands of Billiton
and Banka, on the coast of Sumatra, tin mines
exist, and in these indentured Chinese coolies
O.K. COPPER CO.’S WORKS AND MINE (QUEENSLAND J
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
work under conditions which would be repugnant
to Australians. Once on a voyage from Batavia
inntn«§ a 9a r t.' OUr sh r J call ®d at Billiton, and re-
ined 24 hours taking Chinese coolies for re-
"I? 6 PTT ° r con-
’ T f ? ause k y which the tin-mining company
dertakes to return the coolie to his country of
origin ‘ alive or dead,” so our passengers had the
‘ |,oCt<lLle of a Plentiful supply of coffins as part of
the ship’s cargo. Some of these before the end of
the short voyage became the receptacles of the
embalmed bodies of coolies who died on the way
to Singapore.
The production of tin is increasing rapidly in
Queensland. The last few years show these results :
1902 .. £116,171
1903 .. 243,149
1904 .. 270,276
1905 .. £297,454
1906 .. 490,238
1907 .. 496,766
GREAT NORTHERN TIN MINING CO.'S BATTERY , AND A PORTION OF
[?]F ERBERTON (QUEENSLAND).
The number of persons engaged in tin mining in
1901 was 1148, and in 1907 2582. In 1907 Queens-
land stood second in the list of tin producers
among the States of the Commonwealth. Tas-
mania, which stands first, has the famous Briseis
tin mine, and Mount Bischoff, both of which have
produced great fortunes for their lucky proprie-
tors. Of the Queensland fields, Herberton district
is the most productive.
There is something of the fascination of gold
mining about tin. It is in many ways a poor
man’s mine, for many “fossickers” all over the
Commonwealth, from Port Darwin to Tasmania,
are earning “tucker,” and even fortunes, in tin.
But if the alluvial deposits are soon worked out,
MT . MOLLOY (QUEENSLAND) SMELTING WORKS.
and the shallow-sinking deposits follow them,
there are the deeper leads. Mr. Critchley Parker
in “Resourceful Queensland,” tells us that the
Great Northern mine at Herberton lost the lode
at 750 ft. in depth ; but patient pursuit again
located it in deeper levels, and it is sending forth
richer ores. The deepest of all the Queensland
tin mines—the Vulcan (1200ft.)—shows magnifi-
cently rich ore at this great depth. The vicissi-
tudes of the industry are shown in the case of the
Ii vinebank property, owned by the enterprising
and tenacious John Moffatt and company. But a
little while ago and the ores from their mine were
sent to the treatment works by mule trains. Now
the railway has come along, and the lucky owners
of the mine will reap a richer reward for their
tenacity and pluck.
We can realise the difficulties of the pioneers,
which are now being exorcised by the scream of
the railway whistle, when we read that this
Vulcan venture kept a stud of 100 mules to trans-
port its ores across the mountainous country
surrounding the mine. This is reminiscent of
the bmrras m Spain. Tin appears to haunt these
highlands above Cairns, the region of the beauti-
ful scenery which draws hundreds of the world’s
tourists through the island groups inside the
Barrier Beef, past the great Barron waterfall,
and on to the plateau. In the centre of the
district are the tin smelting works, to which the
ore is transported for treatment. Through the
history of every successful tin mifte we find a war
with difficulties, an experience of the ups and
downs and uncertainties of the miner’s lot. But
GREAT NORTHERN TIN MINE , HERBERI'ON (QUEENSLAND).
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
the note is changing to-day. Capital is slowly
but surely being embarked in tin mining. The
days of the “ wild-cat ” are past; the career of
the mining “spieler” is no longer possible,
Every man in Queensland is more or less
an expert, and the geological features of the
whole country are known, and the places
likely to be tin-bearing are mapped out for later
experiment. The tin industry, like that of copper
and gold, is no longer the sport of charlatans and
persons who go by guesswork and rule of thumb.
The Government has its experts to verify, if not to
pioneer, the discoveries. Machinery is comingto
the aid of the pioneers ; the diamond drill tells the
secrets of the earth’s crust. Investment is guided
by experiment, and results may be forecasted with
tolerable certainty.
Passing from tin, we come to silver. In this,
Queensland has for some years stood third on the
I. 1 ?o silver-producers in the ..Commonwealth —
iN.S.W. being easily first in 1907, to take the last
returns, with £4,290,000 in silver, silver-lead ore,
lead, etc., while Tasmania had £572,000, and
Queensland £187,870. Silver is also a bedfellow
with gold and with copper in the ores of the State,
and most of the big mining centres are producers
of silver. Thus Charters Towers, Croydon. Her-
berton, the Hodgkinson, Kangaroo Hills, Mount
Perry and Stanthorpe are all silver fields. This
list will show the wide distribution of silver
through Queensland. There has been no great
TOWNSHIP OF CLONGURRY (QUEENSLAND), WITH GREAT AUSTRALIAN
COPPER MINE IN FOREGROUND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
sira?«aßr , &2;2sssS'V“
mania. But it is worthy that the fn
dustry is growing, and since thefirst discoverv at'
Ravenswood, in 1879 there has been a stearin
advance Tn the t/hGi-LW? ,-r f a stead y
silver lead ores exist, and only aw tut canital and
machinery to make them bonanzas. Meanwhile
there may, at any moment, be a great find.
Away in the Gulf district it is said that an
English company is about to expend £50,000 on
development tests.
Now we come to the production of wolfram, a
mineral about which little is known outside the
experts. It is used in the processes of hardening
steel, and is a very valuable substance indeed, as
will be seen from the price paid for the wolfram
product in Queensland in 1906 and 1907. In the
first period there was a product of 768 tons,
valued at £64, L 36 ; while in 1907 the product was
615 tons, valued at £89,767, or about £l4B per ton.
The deposits of this valuable mineral are not so
widely distributed as are the other minerals ; but
against this, it has the advantage of being a “poor
man s ” product, and although scientific treatment
is being introduced, still the primitive methods
of roasting, crushing and sluicing are resorted to
still, with excellent results, by the miners. Should
the steel processes of the world call for heavier
supplies of wolfram, the Queensland reefs are
equal to the call, for it appears that the deposits
are of a permanent nature, and will respond to
the demands of the future.
Besides the valuable wolfram, there are work-
ings for manganese, asbestos (which is rapidly
coming into heavy demand throughout the world),
bismuth and antimony. Besides these, there are
sheelite and graphite. The latter is of very wide
distribution through the State, and will in time
be a very valuable product. Molybdenite was
won in Queensland in 1906 to the value of £15,275,
and in 1907, £8442 ; while limestone in the former
year yielded £23,364, and in the latter year
£35,808. Antimony gave £6917 in 1906 and £7863
in 1907.
Enough has been shown in this article to indi-
cate the wide, scope of minerals in the great State
of Queensland. The lists may be used to outline
the future industrial greatness of the State and
the Commonwealth. As population increases,
and as the country settles down to the inevitable-
ness of a tariff—whether for revenue or protective
purposes—the exploitation of our own raw
materials is certain to grow. The rise of manu-
facturing in N.S. W., which for a century prided
itself upon its production of raw products to ex-
change for the manufactured goods of Britain,
America and Europe, is an indication of the new
spirit which has seized upon Australians. Soon
the idea of exporting raw ores for treatment in
Germany and elsewhere will be superseded by the
wisdom of having our own treatment plants in
Australia, employing our own men.
As we advance closer to the nationalist idea
which seeks to make the Commonwealth self-
contained and self-reliant in every branch of
national life,, we shall first import the machines
with which to turn our raw material into the
finished article; and later, we shall make the
machines. Nations which we—sometimes wrongly
—regard as our inferiors can “show us points” in
regard to these matters. The day may not be far
distant when we shall have our own iron and steel
manufactures to work up our own native ores ;
when the machinery and plant in its entirety will
be riveted with the names of local makers; and
when we shall not only supply our own home
demands, but have a surplus to export. When
that day comes, we shall see a development of the
Queensland mining industries of which we can
only adumbrate a faint outline to-day. The
varied resources which have been but feebly
enumerated above will yet yield work to thou-
sands of our men and investments to hundreds
of thousands of capital.


Shipping:-
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling; at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
A DEI. A IDF. & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SY r DNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial ffiutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
EOF.
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £8,009.000.
Policies Issued 116.164 —Assuring £88.388,510,
Amounts paid t.o Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for Nmv South Walks ;
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Tlie Hot- C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
gank of |]orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
j. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager : J I’. . CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. It. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER.BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and-THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. ■ • • • £495,599; 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. ... 163,50 L 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 72.500 0 0
£731,001 0 O
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. "
Gen. Mngr.'.Edwd. D.Day. Asst. Mngr.:E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budgre Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs>
$
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
jKT.S.-W.
|flontdepiete!.»«LCo.,[til.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEACrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliine-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35,000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. 11. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistanr Manager.
RUPTURE
Do yoa »uffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T hen send lor particulars
oi our perfectfitting
AUTOMATIC AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
jhe Best Ruptur: Applianc of the Century-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;,
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St.. Melbourne,Vic
Shipping:.
N ord
D eutscher
Ivloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS b*oked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 695. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of f|eui Z ea l a »d'
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £.500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710,998
PDAMTC np ACTS 011 Australia, New Zea-
UrmN I O unrtr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Svdi.'.y: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Jii’isrht & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
gdf
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,600 tons, to sail about
September 29.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 27 (taking passengers for
the Melbourne Cup).
RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne 17 °
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dal yeti/ ami (Jo inpany. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
Condon.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only,
f Taking passengers for the Melbourne Cup.
■FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London* .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or,Durban .. From £3i 105.. - £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks,
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hi idlest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence bv
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
'Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
gd
CRUISES. *<
< AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district. ■
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(«) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(6) Low AMD FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(«) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to tnat
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and gubijtyban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Man igers, or to the Sbcrktary, at Moore. Street, Sydney.
*• AWL-YOU-WANT ”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
n _ Carpets, Canvas, Blinds. 'Tarpaulins
Posted. etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
fg
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
’and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
|is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles-i bent, 1 straight- 1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras : Cotton,
ed post free. Needles (stout or tine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for jd., set of 8 lor 2s. Send postil note to
STAR NOVELTY CO . 229 Collins Street. Melbourne.
KIHGS ••
KQRTOttCartridp
For .22 Rifle Shooting both tor
Sport and Range practice, these
"British made Cartridges sdve
you the best results. The
hollow point bullet is pur-
posed {or sporting. All
Ammunition Dealers
Agents
THE COLONIAL
AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
fd
gdf
gfd
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddoeks, in which she explains
her reason for offering £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 Ring Street, Sydney,
Corner Of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
. Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
Hotels, &c.
1
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St. f Lcndon* W*
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
g
Medlcator.
3i Inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from'the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
•want relief and cure? If so, try our
. great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
_ Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
Shipping. ____ r
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, Soutli Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Fre
mantle), September 29,
calling at all N.-West
Ports to Wyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
S.S. Marloo, October 5.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairn
S.S. Yong-ala, Sept. 25.
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 2.
Best anct Cheapest Route to Goiafieias.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
C. S. YlllLL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
f New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agent*, George-sweet, Sydney.
F.=-H. —S.
Federal-Houlder-SHire Lines*
For London and Liverpool
Via Sukz Canal.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE,?
11,900 Tons. , B. Coull, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 28th Sept.
„ ~ SYDNEY - - 4th Oct.
„ ~ MELBOURNE - Bth Oct.
„ ~ ADELAIDE - - 14th Oct.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied With fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric lig'ht throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
I £49 10S - £l3 18S ‘ £islsS ‘ £l7l7S '
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers, For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sidney;
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S '
fcree Witches
CIGARETTES
6° for 10'
London Made
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, syoney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
fdg
TALKS ON RUPTURE,
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)


COLUMBIA
INDESTRUCTIBLE
CYLINDER RECORD
Fits Your Machine and Lasts for Ever.
Never Breaks, Never Wears Out.
Purer, Clearer, More Brilliant Tone.
Buy Columbia Indestructible Records, because they are really indestructible-
and you will keep on buying them because of their incomparably full, clear tone.
They fit your machine! Cost 1/6 each, post free. Get a Catalog.
A splendid repertoire to choose from—and we are adding to it right along.
pSj COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO,
gj 255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
J 9
®C
£t=*
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE C*Bo £ M
8-HOUR art union
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30,1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won b.y Mr. A. Moorkhouse, Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwardiny stamped addressed envelope a list of
the results will be posted. Tickers may be had from Ayents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOtJGALL Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eiyht-Hour Committee.
PLASMON
PLASMO
EGg 7Mfl
Is an Unequalled Phosphatic
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD,
Containing
The Organic Salts and Phosphorus of Milk
in a natural state of combination and in a greater degree than any
other milk product. PEASMON contains a natural sufficiency of
organic phosphorus without the need of artificial addition of phosphates,
Plasmon added to food increases the nutritive value
ENORMOUSLY. — Lancet.
Plasmon, P.asmon Cocoa, Plasmon Chocolate
and Plasmon Biscuits.
Of all chemists, grocers and stores.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY*
PLASMON, Ltd., London. Australian Depot, 5 & 7 Barrack
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HOTELKEEPERS !
Write for Full
Particulars.
Buy a Modern Machine which thoroughly saturates the water
with the gas by the easy movement of the handle.
THE
“Banker”lmproved Patent
can be connected with the water service. Indicates the
quantity of water and pressure.
CO.DD’S Bottles, Corked Bottles and Syphons can be
filled without disconnecting water pipes, and without blowing
off, which saves half your gas bill. No more tedious Rocking
of the Cylinder. No Rubber Hose to perish. “ BANKER ’’
CARBONATORS have been thoroughly tried; they are
absolutely dependable in every respect. Sold on Easy
Terms. Also Marble Soda Fountains and Supplies to
suit both large and small businesses.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.
167 George Street, Circular Quay, Sydney.
By Appointment to
His Majesty the King.
BOVRIL
is ALL beef—prime beef in a readily digestible form.
That is why BOVRIL is so invigorating a beverage, so
strengthening a food, why Cooks find it so useful, why Doctors
and Nurses recommend it, why the sensible housewife will
have nothing in place of it.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereairh Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
fdg
The Perfect Shaving Edge
That’s the feature a good, reliable Razor must have—
and The PLUM has it now and always. As Razor
experts and practical Hairdressers we guarantee The
PLUM to give you shaving comfort —perfect satis-
faction always. We keep it in order for two years
- free of charge. It,has a perfect shaving edge.
Price 10/6.
Post Free to
any address.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
NO RATS or MICE SEEN
Since using- DANYSZ VIRUS. Discovered at the
Pasteur Institute, Paris. See testimonials.
Single Tubes, 26, five for 10/- Post Free from
DANYSZ VIRUS, 454-S FUNDERS STREET,
and 13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Harmless to other animals. All chemists and storekeepers.
Are You Tired o/
Mending'Your Roof?
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt,
and gives you long years of
service. Doesn’t dry-out, crack,
pulverise, rot, nor rust.
Saves You Trouble,
Time and Money.
Made by The Barber Asphalt Paving
Company— the largest producers of asphalt
and largest manufacturers of ready roofing
in the world.
MINERAL AND SMOOTH SURFACE.
Come and Get Samples.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
in the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
29
T.
-■c
\\
v\
Vi
ered, the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in eveiy case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
. ,'v ' • ; •.;; ..
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in tiieir use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up vour
nerve force—and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied'. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brines
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.'
Beware of cheap imitations.
a
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The MoLAUOiiUN GO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name


MAGNIFYING
POST-CARD MIRROR
Gives Pictures Stereoscopic Effect.
PORTRAITS BECOME LIFELIKE.
Buildings, Trees, &c., Stand
up Real and Solid.
WOIX can have no idea
how this Alasrnifying
Mirror marvellously im-
proves and enlarges the
pictures ; they stand up
jngt as if the trees, build-
ings, people, vehic es, Ac.,
were real and solid, and
portraits become life-like.
Every detail is brought
«<ut clearly and
distinctly, and the
perspective effect
of street scenes
and landscapes is
exactly like a
stereoscopic view.
The Mirror needs
no adjustment.
You simply place
the Post Card or
Photograph as
shown in the en-
graving, and the
Picture can be
S'-en in the Mirror
greatly enlarged
and wonde fully
changed in an-
tcord
Only 2/9 Carriage Paid.
peuram-e. W#» have just received the first consignment of
this remarkable novelty, and, to get it quickly known, we will
sell 500 ar, 2s. 9d. each, carriage paid. After these are sold the
price will probably be increased. If you mention this paper
when ordering, we will enclose with the Mirror a few good
Post Cards. Obtainable only from
The Union IWfg. & Agency Co.-
299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne
Hy.„ 11... J Massage, Vibratory-Massage, Elec-
lvU lic&Q trie Light or Electric Bath High-
Frequency Current, or Physical Culture, come to the
MASSAGE HYDRO-ELECTRIC *ND PHYSICAL
CULTURE INSTITUTE,
where we rapidly heal such complaints as Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Insomnia (Sleepless-
ness), Liver and Kidney Complaints, Indigestion,
Constipation, Stoutness and Nervous Weakness, also
Sprains, etc. We employ Nurses for Lady Patients.
Note Address: Eugadine Chambers, 15 &17 Eliza-
beth St., near Hunter St., Sydney. ’Phone, City 828.
Patients are also treated at their own hoin’es.
Missing Friends.
rnOMHOLT or HOLT or WILSON. Frances
I Amelia, nee HENDERSON or DEANE,
formerly residing Old South Head Road,
Waverley, communicate with undersigned.
Money awaiting you. If dead, information or
evidence of death will be paid for.
McLACHLAN & MURRAY, Solicitors,
E. S. & A. Bank Building,
King and George Streets, Sydney.
ESTATE OF JAMES WARD.
JAMES WARD, who was born at Letterkenny, Donegal-
Ireland, and who emigrated to Australia about fifty
or sixty years ago, is b“lieved to have died in
Australia a few years ago. He left certain estate in
Scotland, which is claimed by his surviving brothers.
Any children or grandchildren or testamentary legatees
of the said James Ward, in Australia or elsewhere, are
requested to intimate their claims to the subscribers by
the 31st December, 1909, after which date the said estate
will be distributed.
Persons having information as to any estate or property
in Australia left by the said James Ward at his death
might kindly communicate their knowledge to the sub-
scribers.
GORDON & CO., Solicitors,
38 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh, Scotland.
HEIRS WANTED—MacLEAN.
THE children or grandchildren of WILLIAM
MacLEAN and Mrs. JEAN MacLEOD
or MacLEAN, his wife, who about the year
1870 were resident at Seven Oaks, Kempsey,
near Sydney, are requested to communicate
with the subscribers.
GORDON & CO., Solicitors,
38 Lauriston Place, Edinburgh, Scotland.
EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN.
IF EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN, formerly
of Irthlingborough, England, who was last
heard of in Queensland in the year 1899. or any
issue of his, will apply to the undersigned, they
will hear of something to their advantage.
Anyone giving authentic information of the
above to the undersigned will be well rewarded.
SHARMAN JACKSON & ARCHER,
Solicitors, Wellingborough, England.
SAMPSON, ALICE MAY, daughter of
Thomas Waring Sampson, formerly of
Sydney, dentist. Information is required by the
undersigned as to the whereabouts of above, she
being entitled to money from her mother’s estate.
Last heard of as arriving here from Western
Australia by thes.s. Sydney, January, 1908.
H. C. ELLISON RICH, Solicitor,
Bligh Chambers, *
10 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Amusements
MY CASTLES’ AUSTRALIAN TOUR, 1009.
AMY CASTLES,
‘THE AUSTRALIAN JENNY LIND.”
SYDNEY TOWN HALL—
(TO-NIGHT), THURSDAY, SEPT. 23,
AND
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, SEPT. 25.
BRISBANE, H. M. THEATRE—
OCTOBER 2nd, 4th and sth.
Tour under the Direction of 1. & N. TAIT.
HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 25,
THE J. C. WILLIAMSON JACK and JILL
COMPANY in the Giant Pantomime,
JACK AND JILL.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
j| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. \yiLLIAMSON.
• EVERY EVENING AT 7-50. .
THE NEW MUSICAL ROMANCE,
THE KING OF CADONIA.
Interpreted by THE J. C. WILLIAMSON NEW COMIC
OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
JHE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT ami EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATEESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s fid.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at S ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
W L ST’S PICT IJIIES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is fid, Is, & fid. Popular Prices. fid, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
BIJOU PICTURE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
PALACE
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I 6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor* Manager—Mis. llakky RiCKAiti-s
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
OAPT. WINSTON’S PERFORMING SEALS.
THE WHEELERS, Australia’s Leading Comedy Cyclists.
MISS ATHMORE GREY, Vocalists and Danseuse.
THREE SPRIGHTLY SISTERS, Comediennes <s Dancers.
RONALD GEORGE, English Instrumentalist.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
CHARLES J. JOHNSON, Corner Man & Cake Walker.
VAUDE and VERNE, Clever Patter Comedians.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. ' Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
■ THREE SISTERS TRAPNELL, Acrobats.
ROSINA CASSELLI and HER PERFORMING DOGS.
BROW and ROBINSON, Amusing and Novel Act.
MERTON and RYDON, Comedy Artists.
MISS NELLIE MAUNSELL.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
Plan at Allan’s. ZST PRICES —3s, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
THE SILVER KING
Cast includes G. S. TITHERADGE, THOMAS
KINGSTON, ETHEL WARWICK, DOROTHY
GRIMSTON.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager—William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Successful English Drama,
THE MAX SHE LOVES.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
h hr
MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : .1. C. WILLIAMSON.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 23. FRIDAY, SEPT. 24,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE DUCHESS OF DANTZIC.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL
COMIC OPERA CO. in
Tiie GIRLS of GOTTENBERG
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
■HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF SEASON.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
in Sbakspeare’s Comedy,
AS YOU LIKE IT.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
QRAtID
FAAJCY DRESS and
CARA! IVAL ON THE ICE.
POSTER
M elbou rn eG L A CIA RIU M,
NEXT TUESDAY EVENING, 28th inst.
NUMEROUS HANDSOME PRIZES.
GOLD MEDALS FOR
CHAMPIONSHIP OF THE SEASON,-
EDGE SKATING, WALTZING.
This CARNIVAL WILL ECLIPSE ALL
PREVIOUS DISPLAYS.
THEN/EUM HALL. MELBOURNE
Lessees .. J. & N. IAIT.
J.iN.TAIT'S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
A Complete Change of Programme Weekly.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan's.
WEST’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
** THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WESTS PICTURES THES 0 ?I U ,
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.50.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE. WORLD.
Popular Prices—-1/.6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen's.
Children fid. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. 1/-
Tie Clarionette Accordeon
Really a Mouth Organ and
Accordeon Combined.
Anyone can play it nisrht off.
Sweet and Mellow Tone,
Only 7/6 & 10/6 each
The “Clarionette” Aeeordeon hasnow
become one of the most popular Musical Instru-
ments of to-day. Actually it is a combination of
an Accordeon and a high-class Mouth Organ,
possessing all the advantages of both, without
any of the objections of either. The Reeds are
arranged and tuned similar to a regular Accor-
fdg
dean ; but the music is infinitely
sweeter and more melodious, and
of such volume that it resembles a
small Orchestra. An important
feature to remember is that you
can play the Melody and Accom-
paniment at the same time without
the latter drowning the air, Any-
one can play it right off and with-
out the aid of a teacher, as you
need have no knowledge of music
whatever. It has 12 Keys. Com-
manding 30 Notes, and the'music is
produced by blowing through the
Mouth-ph ce likean ordinal y Flute.
You can play on it any class of
Music, Songs, Waltzes, Dance
Music, &c. In fact it is quite
superseding the Accordeon at
Dances. It is a most ingenious
invent.on. it makes a musician of you without
the tedious practice required in other Musical
In'truments.
We stock only one grade which we know from
experience to be the very best, but we have
them m two sizes No, l Small and Compact
7s. 6d. each, post free. No. 2 Large size
about afoot long. iOs 6d. each, post (pee.
“Boomerang” Mouth Organs
Loudest, Sweetest, and Best.
We are also Agents for the Famous
“ BOOMEBANG ” Mouth Organs, recognised
everywhere as the be t procurable They are
perfectly constructed, and will keep in tune
longer than any other Mouth Organ known.
PRICES, (post free)
"Professional "—Large, 20 holes, 40 reeds, 41-
„ Miniature, 10 holes 20 reeds, 21-
Ordinary "Boomerang”— Large. 2) holes. 4d reeds,
2/o. Any Rev,
~ ~ Small, 10 holes. 20 reeds,
1/d. All post free.
Catalogue of Cheap Music, Musical Novelties,
etc. Free.
A. J. SMITH U CO., 338-540 Rent St., Sydney
Margarine, which is increasing very much of
late, is the first really tough proposition that the
N.S.W. Pure Foods Act has to tackle. This re-
fined fat is now produced in such a way as to be
quite indistinguishable from butter even by the
eye of an expert—the mouth of an expert is, of
course, a different matter. Grocers display it
largely in the poorer suburbs as “Our or
“Factory-made, Bd.” The vested interests in the
manufacture of margarine are now big enough to
encourage certain papers to clamor that any
attempt to prevent the grease looking like butter
is an interference with the liberty of the subject.
On the other hand, the Cow industry demands that
margarine shall be labelled as such ; also that
the artificial coloring process which makes it
look like butter shall be prohibited as an
attempt to deceive. That would mean the
death of the margarine industry, for in its
natural and uncolored state the stuff isn’t invit-
ing. The daily papers don’t want any active
interference with margarine, yet they hate to
disoblige the Cow industry, Cow being one of
their gods. Besides, there is a feeling that Cow
is tottering on the verge of an abyss, and can’t
stand much competition. George Reid told the
sugar-growers of northern N.S.W. to give up
sugar and take to Cow; and to a great extent
they did so. People gave up wheat and took to
Cow. They tore down forests and grew the
shady, branching Cow instead. While Cow mul-
tiplied in Australia, it did the same in Siberia,
and the candle of the butter demand was burnt
at both ends. Now there is a gloomy foreboding
that one day the bottom will fall out of the
market with a dry howl, and butter will sell at
2d. This isn’t a time to rush in with a margarine
industry, and accelerate the Cow downfall.
“Janor”: The whole-footed anxiety with which
the Anti-Sosh cowatoo embraces Socialism is
astonishing—he cannot get enough of the article.
Just now quite a number of him in Vic. are
demanding compulsory grading of the cream
UP-TO-DATE EVIDENCE REQUIRED.
It is said Peary’s Pole-finding story is more likely to be
believed than that of Cook, who neglected to take a
cinematograph along with him.
ALEXANDER THE GREAT: “ I’ve conquered the
Persians , I’ve cut the Gordian knot, I’ve de-
feated Darius, taken Tyre and Egypt, and
laid all Asia at my feet!”
INCREDULOUS POPULACE: “Gam! Prove it!
Where's your films?”
separated in the Anti-Socialist’s dairy. The
reason for this yearning for more Socialistic legis-
lation is found in the steady depreciation of Vic-
torian factory butter since the arrival of the home
separator. Only some 30 per cent, of it now ranks
as prime; second grade accounts for 10 per cent. ;
and the less said about the balance the better.
Some of it is plain axle grease, and not fit for con-
sumption. And for this the cow-puncher is solely
to blame. Having discovered that, owing to com-
petition between factories, he receives the same
payment for cream whether it be fresh or mil-
dewed, he runs it into the factory once a week, or
at even longer intervals ; and it very often arrives
shouting like a bone mill. Sometimes it explodes,
and very often it has to be chained down. The
different creams, the various fragrances, microbes,
ferments and other sundries meet in the churn,
and the result is a cow-grease that deteriorates
yearly. So the cow-growers are sitting on the
doormat of the Minister of Agriculture demanding
Socialism, and nothing but Socialism.
«
Sydney keeps moving under the new tariff.
Henry Bull and Co., who were content to be
importers and nothing more while the old order
of things lasted, are hustling a new woollen mil!
together at Liverpool. The wheels are expected
to be going round by next Easter and furnishing
another hundred toilers with bread and butter.
The Australian public man who has a weak-
ness for' a “ lovely funeral ” should always arrange
to pass put on a Thursday or a Friday. Then the
public can make holiday on the blessed Sabbath
and give him a good send-off. So Bent mamiged,
and a show-loving Government offered a State
funeral, and Thomas’s relatives cordially accepted,
and the late lamented was planted with all pomp
and ceremony. Melbourne apparently made up its
mind to see the last of the remarkable market-
gardener, who, in spite of, Or perhaps because of his
ignorance and boorishness, had inflicted himself
on the State as member, Minister, Speaker and
Premier for so many sorry years. So from noon
till after three a long procession of buggies, carts,
cabs, motors and the inevitable bikes hastened
from all suburbs to Brighton, where a short
service had been held over the remains, prior to
leaving for the long home. The thousands lined
the route ; wealth, officialdom and private citizenry
followed in decorum; yet nowhere was a head
bowed insorrowora’kerehief pressed to moist eyes.
Bent had represented Brighton in every sense,
and Bent was gone—but Brighton’s troubles ! It
was “only Tommy.” He had served its turn,
and it would pass him a.last good-bye, or send its
poach man or its chauffeur as deputy; but it
ate its dinner with as good an appetite
as ever while the rain fell, soaking steadily
into the loosened clay on that lonely hill-
side. Between the close-packed lines of bared on-
lookers the lumbering carriage bore its burden.
His clownish jokes, his boorish outbreaks, his
eccentricities had preceded him into oblivion.
Only the casket that had been Bent was being put
away out of sight, and one felt, somehow, that
never before had it seemed less ignoble, lying stffl
and straight, clothed in the dignity of death. It
was a pitiful conclusion to years of tireless energy ;
yet it is true that, of all the hasting episodes of
those 70 years, the pageant of Bent’s burial became
him best.
Sydney skates on very thin ice as regards
its gas supply. The two big monopolies, one on
each side of the harbor, run the show, which is
very pleasant for them, but still there is a sizable
fly ‘in the honey-pot. A monopoly has its cus-
tomers at its mercy, always provided it doesn’t
become so utterly outrageous as to force the State to
interfere. Then there is trouble. And while labor
is abundant and disunited the monopoly has its
employees at its mercy too, for there is no other
similar place where they can get employment.
But if labor is unjted and well organised it lias
the co. to a great extent at its mercy, for there
are no other similar establishments from which
the co. can borrow employees in time of trouble.
And the gas supply in Sydney proper is an animal
with only one neck to be severed and only
one head to be cut off. If the Sydney
Gas Co. doesn’t treat its employees fairly,
and they strike, they thereby introduce a
statement of their grievances into practically
every house south of the Harbor—a statement
which can’t fail to draw attention. And when a
monopoly is so rich and so comprehensive as the
Sydney Gas Co., attention is about the last thing
it wants. It would sooner have cold corned
beef for dinner. Therefore, though there are
periodical rumors of a gas strike, the event itself
is very rare. But a Private Enterprise gas mono-
poly is a fool of a business at the best. Only the
absurd municipal disunion which finds its ex-
pression in the forty-odd municipalities of Sydney
makes the thing possible.
“ Jean Sibi ” : That deed of matrimony at
the Church of Christ, Campbell-street, Sydney
(B. 9/9/’O9), reminds me of the Christian’s indif-
ference to race perversion. I remember a similar
ceremony in a Melbourne Metholean Chapel when
the hero of the occasion was a bland and smiling
person with the regulation tucked-in eyes and
buttercup countenance of the land of China. His
bride was a fervent co-worker in the vineyard,
and was a bright-looking white woman, who
might have invited the respectful attentions of a
stalwart son of her own race. But what particu-
larly surprised me was the general air of glorifica-
tion over the alliance. It was not enough that the
girl’s people and friends rolled up in force to wit-
ness the union, but threeof the flat-hatted brethren.
if I remember rightly, took turn
about in fastening the yellow to
the white. I thought then, as I
think now, that that marriage
was a degrading and thoughtless
act, and I wondered why people
cannot regard such things as un-
pardonable sins. Surely the deed
of wedding a Chow is almost as
great a repudiation of respects,
bility as the deed of living with
him ! He has no appeal either
by his beauty or his intellect.
In fact, we know that his appeal
is to the coarsest animal instincts
by a process of fascination that
makes white men feel savagely
for a gun. Parsons ought to
know —and possibly do know—
that it’s only a doubtful type
of white woman who will marry
a Chow. And that type, to speak a little more
plainly, doesn’t want a husband—she wants a
lover. The man is the essential. The wedding
is only an affectatiou !
“I'.J.W.”: On June 30 a number of
Maoriland centres “went dry”—that is to say,
six months previously they had given themselves
half a year’s notice to start wearing the dry flower
of a publess life, and like the man who sold his
soul to the Devil they learned that their time was
up and they had been sent for. Newtown, the
largest suburb of windy Wellington, was one of
the “dry” areas; but it promptly turned one
hotel into a club, and although only a few weeks
old this club is humming. It is so easy. Jones
joins for a trifle, and immediately becomes
the possessor of a locker. He leaves an
order with the late Bung, who is now
manager of the club, and that accommodating
gentleman buys a quantity of juice in Wellington
and puts it in Jones’s locker. Jones, who holds
the other key, calls when lie s thirsty, or when he
isn’t, and helps himself. Also he can take his
friends, or someone else s friends, and help them.
True, Jones's locker is only large enough to hold
a dozen of whisky, but he can order 20 cases if he
likes, and have thetri kept in the cellar. At
Masterton, the principal centre of the Wairarapa,
1 had a talk with the local brewer, whose
factory or mill stands in the centre of the town.
Here beer is still brewed, and taken to Carterton,
some nine miles away, and just outside the no-
license area. Thence it is brought back to its
natural lair and delivered. The skipper of the
delivery van receives his instructions at Carterton,
to which place the orders are sent. While I was
speaking to the brewer, two or three vans came
into the yard loaded with beer vessels of various
shapes ahdsizes. Mr. Hops wasn’t worrying ;he
gets a better price now 'that he’s a retailer, and
it’s a purely cash trade too.


“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
Boomerang Fence Droppers
THE STRONGEST AND CHEAPEST.
20 Per Cent. Reduction
Former Prices.
Send for Price List.
GIANT FENCE CO.,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
m
S’.
£lL+. ■—
LLER'S-S
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
51 Length, 12 Inches.
/ “ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot he bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.! [4
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and \ \L
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
Messrs .Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared b ' I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist.
25 HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
IT A C IVTmMT!"V TO T«T , "NrTI ° n Security or Freehold or Leasehold
i.VXI/XUXaX X U laXiiVlF City or suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined)', Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. 0. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in
sS5a
CLOSED AS COUCH.
j BEP
■v
Ste
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. • in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY. ——
WINCHESTER
.22 CALIBER CARTRIDGES
Winchester .22 Caliber Cartridges both Black
and Smokeless powder are unequalled for
accuracy and uniformity in shooting. The
Smokeless powder cartridges are loaded with
Winchester Greaseless Bullets which makes
them clean to handle and prevents the powder
from losing its strength. Try them next time.
Ask for Winchester make—the Red W Brand.
SOLD BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
SPRING SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS*
DAVID BRAHAM § CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
BRIAR
Pipes (GBP) Pipes
The ©i\ly PIPES
That have stood
the Test of Time.
All Good Smokers Use Them
Ttsk for them and see
.. that you get them .. ,
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
YOUR.
WITH
m
&
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
When Mosquitoes annoy you j
remember how useful, either for pre- <
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for )
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard (
against infectious diseases. )
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, )
Vlade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.)
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
CURES
For eighty years POWELL’S
BALSAM has been the one
safe and reliable remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES.
Sold by all Qftemists and Stores.
Sole wholesale agents for New South Wales and
Queensland —Elliott Bros., Sydney & Brisbane.
COUCHS
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
df
Read the following proof of its
efficacy.
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford,
writes :—“ If the value of ‘ POWELL’S BALSAM
OF ANISEED ’was better known, many who suffer
with Coughs, Bronchitis, and other Lung Troubled,
would do as I have done for upwards of 50 years;
I take that when nothing else will give relief. One
or two invariably set me up. 1 -It is invalu-
able. I have several times given a bottle to suffer-
ing friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have
had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last,
and two or three bottles had the desired effect when
all else failed. You may make what use of this
you like.” —December nth , 1907.
COLBS
*
I
gdf
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins., by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
That disrespected public servant of Victoria, the
flagellator, will have a busy time shortly, owing
to Judge Eagleson’s belief in the lash as a
reformer. At the September Sessions, this Judge
ordered the cat to five youths concerned in a case
of assault and robbery, together with spells of
hard labor, varying from 18 to 27 months. To
another robber in company he gave 12 strokes and
five years’ “hard”; sundry housebreakers and
larcenists sustained terms running from 18 months
to five years; and a first offender, who had
stupidly tried to bribe a Customs officer to pass
some opium, was sent up for one year. Judge
Eagleson, no doubt, has his own ideas about the
efficacy of the cat and other semi-savage punish-
ments ; but he might at any rate note that, after
a lifetime spent in studying the effect of various
forms of punishment on prisoners, Captain
Neitenstein, the boss-in-ehief of the Ma State’s
gaols, has practically abolished the lash
for prison offences. Last year there wasn’t one
single application of it. And when the man who
knows the effect of various forms of punishment
won’t use the cat when he has to award the pun-
ishment, Eagleson might think twice before
he orders it himself. And, by the way, what is
Victoria’s indeterminate sentence for save to meet
cases like the above ?
♦
“ Oby,” on the past and the present:—
Captain Phillip, Sydney’s first potentate, was really a
model mayor, all who have succeeded, down to Allen
Taylor, being mere imitations and makeshifts. Phillip
ordered Sydney streets to be laid out 200 ft. wide. He
commanded that all building allotments should have at
least 60ft. frontage and 150 ft. depth. He ordered the
scrub to the east to be cleared away and the ground
planted. (That clearing is now the Botanic Gardens.)
He settled the convicts along what is now Phillip-street,
and put the military down where the present Bulletin
office is. He took for himself as Governor a big slice of
land running round John Young’s Crescent, and started
a,n hospital. Then he said, “I forbid a foot of
Sydney land ever to pass into private hands.”
Phillip had great ideas about the advantages of State
leaseholds over freeholds. But smaller men came along
and undid his work. How thoroughly they undid it can
be gathered from the fact that the Corporation of Sydney
is already committed to an expenditure of £1,146,553 for
widening and straightening' streets and lanes which would
have been wide and straight from the beginning if Phillip
had had his way, and for the necessary resumption, at
enormously-enhanced prices, of land which wouldn’t have
required resuming if Phillip’s leasehold idea had been
adhered to. And this £1,146,553 only represents the
beginning of things.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
S he LEADING
HOUSE "»
gdfg
Sporting Goods
Fishing TacKle &t Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Special Snap
COLLECTOR GUN
No. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38£in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards.
40s.
Postage on one Gun-ls 9d, N.S.W.; 3s 2d, Interstate.
CANT
B
BEAT
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
book of nature and illustrated
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymqnd, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups,. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
fdg
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 600 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOYE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
lan His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting thei r physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddbn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Hst&blish&d 25 YcOjTSi
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, '7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
HEARNES
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject, to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
The Champion ”
the only machime on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them-under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 free machines.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to wive a’Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their*friends and home circles, using our new and popu.ar
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. Weclaim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guaranteed sent with everv machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machhies to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
Sav advise when the case containing 'Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
hi ordwon receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING C 0„ Opp. G.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Xshe BULLETIN POST CARD 6"
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d.
PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
*
m
*
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Fret, 1«.
Tte Life. Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frte, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G-P-O.s SYDNEY •
ASTHMA CURE
[ EHIHAULTSIWDIAH ClBAHfcilfcS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.


ENJOY WNAT YOU EAT
If you don’t, your food does not do you much good. There is no
way to maintain the health and strength of mind and body except by
nourishment. There is no way to nourish the body except through the
stomach. The stomach must be kept healthy, pure and sweet, or the
strength will go down, and disease will result.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
is the remedy that everyone should take when there is anything wrong
with the stomach.
Poor Appetite, Loss of Strength, Nervousness, Headache, Bad
Breath, Heartburn, Indigestion and Dyspepsia are quickly cured by the
use of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules. These Tabules represent the
natural juices of digestion, combined with the greatest known tonic and
reconstructive agents. They simply do
the work of the stomach, relieving that
weakened organ, and permitting it to
rest and recuperate. When you take Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules everything
you eat tastes good, and every bit of
the nutriment that the food contains
is assimilated and appropriated by
the blood and tissues. They are
the only safe, reliable, certain
remedy for all stomach troubles.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are obtainable everywhere at 2s. Cd.
per tin of 80 tabules, or will be
sent post free upon receipt of
\ the price by the Sheldon Drug
\ Co., Ltd., 15 O’Connell Street,
\ Sydney.
M
ss
THE FASHIONABLE
fiiBDUILA
from 6/6 to 12/6
per tOO -
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLA I/O RED.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100.
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/G per 100.
“ Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/6 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth fr leading Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. 6d. Packet of TEN. Sd
INDIGESTION
Maddened by Agonising Pain-
Many Treatments Prove Useiess.
/
THE following remarkable Indigestion
Cure by Bile Beans proves the won-
derful efficacy of this great family
medicine. Bile Beans are of untold value to
the wage-earner who cannot afford to “lay
up ” when in ill-health. While mild in action,
they quickly restore robust health and buoyant
spirits to the weak and depressed without
making “ lying up ” a necessity.
Mr. C. J. Brooks, residing at 352 Abercrombie
Street, Redfern, Sydney, is conversant with the
wonderful curative virtues of Bile Beans, and writes
the following letter for the benefit of fellow sufferers.
He says : —■“ Indigestion troubled me for a long
time. I also suffered with the liver, which—
together with the Indigestion—accounted for the
terrible pains I experienced, which nearly drove
me mad. Insomnia also added to my misery. I
tried various remedies in the hope of alleviating
my sufferings, but without success. I was advised
to try Bile Beans, and decided to give them a
chance, and see if they would do me any good.
The results I have derived from Bile Beans are
most satisfactory. I underwent a course of the
Beans to the extent of two boxes, when all the pain had disappeared, the Insomnia had
left me, and lam once more myself. This having been my experience with Bile Beans, I
shall certainly recommend them to anyone whom I know requires a genuine Liver medicine.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
BILE BEANS, Because of their absolute purity and unfailing efficacy, are the Standard
Remedy for biliousness, headache, indigestion, constipation, piles, nausea, pains in the
chest, flatulency, heartburn, anaemia, offensive breath, impure blood, loss of appetite, dis-
turbed sleep, debility,
and all disorders of
the liver, stomach and
digestive organs. Bile
Beans are obtainable
from all chemists and
stores at 1/14, and 2/9
for large size (con-
taining three times
the 1/11 size), or direct
from the Bile Bean
Manfg. Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
ONE BEAN
ONE DOSE.
eans
Uioushess
The Song of the Wharves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HUGGING the wharves on the southern
side where the little bay-boats go,
The draggled brig and the lolling barge
and the liner lie a-row ;
Down on the wharves on the southern side a
thousand odors are,
From the fragrant gut of the timber-ship and the
lading of Stockholm tar,
Blown with the taint of the listing tramp from
Eden and Auckland Bay-
Pungent of hides from the slidden hatch —and the
barque from Norroway;
And the fabric of fabled days is loomed, and the
looked-for comes to pass,
When the bridge-lights shine on the face of him—
Once more on the rude fresh grace of him—
And Jack heads home with his lass.
By the arch where the coughing engines halt and
the slow trucks jerk and crawl,
The Lasrum light hard down at your right blinks
red on the river-wall,
The shadows mottle and weave and swing when
the spectral arc-light sways
At the touch of a questing gusty wind from the
outer waterways;
And her white arm girdles his guernseyed one, as
she steers him north again
From the gaudy corner-lights that glare for
thirsting sailormen ;
For she knows that her idol’s feet are clay, though
his limbs be of beaten brass,
When the swing-doors gape at the alley-mouths
(Sheer off from the little alley-mouths !)
Where Jack hies home with his lass.
Over the wharves on the southern side the stars
swim white and far,
And weird and lone hums the scraping drone of
the homing cable-car;
The Lasrum light reels back on your left, and the
twin lamps leap and grin
At the arm-hugged flask, and the sailorman who
putteth his'trust therein;
And down in the dark of the nether arch the
twisting eddy sucks,
And the flotsam races and clogs and spins, and
the chuckling current clucks,
And each face red in solemnity is the face of a
priest at Mass,
While south and by west in a heeling line
(Gutter to wall in a reeling line)
Jack drifts from home and his lass.
Censor and cynic he sits self-throned, the mentor
of men and things,
He has wetted the sponge to wipe the slate of his
tallied reckonings,
Till the swift words cross and his brow floods red
as the spilling of new-drawn wine,
And he bites on a broken oath, and wrests from
the straggling, ill-linked line,
And shakes him free with a loose-swung arm ere
the stumble and clinch begin—
(For an empty bottle hath weight enow, and to
squander a full were sin !)
And the breath steams up to the stolid stars
through a scatter of splintered glass,
While the fierce feet shuffle the cobble-stones
(Something drips down on the cobble-stones 1)
Where Jack beats back from his lass.
The vestal night hath leant to look, wide-eyed
and quivering, down
Where the heel of the harsh iconoclast hath mired
her trailing gown ;
Swept in the race of the ragged clouds the
gemmed stars blur and blaze,
And a timorous waif-wind scurrying out to the
distant alley-ways
C .ills on the street side altar-stone and the stain
of sacrifice,
And checks at the spread of the sprawling shape
with the lamps on its lightless eyes ;
For carven in stone is this changeless law from
Cain unto Caiaphas—
That one should suffer the scathe for all
(Ravelled find red are the sins of all)
Aye, stumble and strive, yet pass
Out from the pale of the Things That Be,
Though the tolling years beat endlessly
At the heart of a white-lipped lass—
Alas !
For twining of hands and for eyes that trust
(Dear God !),
And the brave lips dropped to dust.
And the grief of a dry-eyed lass.
VICTOKIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
The Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SUCH days as they know at Queenscliff
daring Christmas vacations tend, to sloth
and inertia. Energy is dispelled by a
vagrant listlessness; the warm air sensualises to
a fervid giddiness ; a devilish poison deadens the
intelligence—all is a sweet Hell of impulse—and
man is ready for capture and eating.
So a woman went down from a thirty-shilling
boarding-house, carrying a parasol and one of
those finely-wrought virginal tragedies of the
Rosa Carey school—-a neat, green volume, pro-
minent enough to harmonise with a general
scheme of color. It was not to be read, rather to be
employed as a device, as an accessory to a de-
liberate tableau of a fine, healthy, innocent young
animal with fangs—utility, as they know, being a
mask to invention.
Young, approaching the age of puberty, was the
woman. Of a comely shape, possessing a mouth
large enough to make a respectable meal of a man,
neither angel nor devil, but a rather amiable
young animal—a type and a product of our
modern decency—that convulsion of the ascetic
ideal.
She took her way along the sands towards
Point Lonsdale, until, reaching a sand hummock
overgrown with coarse grass, she lay down in the
shaded side of it, carefully displaying as much of
a Norman Lindsay leg in an N.L. shoe as would
be considered modest in polite society.
By-and-bye, came a man, unpretentious and un-
fashionable. He would be deemed such in drab
communities of cabmen and ’bus-drivers. His
appearance was startlingly innocent—a monk in
mufti, perhaps—but his eyes told smoking-room
stories.
Presently there grew into his perspective an
N.L. ankle, demurely peeping and prettily aggres-
sive. It suggested that it should be taken as an
ornament rather than as a hosiery advertisement.
To him it signalised war,
So he sat down beside her, he a little reflective,
she placidly expectant. He knew she knew that
he would be eaten alive —so he made his peace
with his Undertaker.
Close to her he found her fatal—and respect-
able. She seemed far too seductive to be well
brought up. Her propriety was appallingly con-
spicuous, but artificial. He conjured her as Diana
in glass beads.
He was rather dazed. Through her transparent
sleeve her arm was pink and wicked.
“Miss, Miss—er—l think we’ve met before,”
he began without conviction.
“We haven’t, and you know it ! ” A hungry
smile took the iron out of her abruptness.
She was very hungry—she hadn’t eaten a man
for a week.
Consequently, she began to slime him, con-
scious of another misdeed; while he recalled
that a frivolous ingenue would have replied to his
first sentence with plaintive agreement.
But, ah ! -this one was subtle, and was shedding
her beads.
So they talked of boarding-houses and food, of
plays and late hours, even of a crayfish rout that
had wrecked sundry reputations up at the ’Cliff.
Both found a commonplace rich and terrible
when the tongue was impetuous and the brain
was dull.
Casually he took her book, and knew that her
ma had selected her literature. It told of a pig-
tailed heroine who had gone to the Devil, and had
discovered that the Devil was not what she had
expected.
Then they arose and went for a walk, and his
whole being was wounded by a thought that Diana
had corns.
He was now half in love with his imagination—
and pitifully amorous. His arm crept round her
waist (where pads are not), and two common
green eyes gave him veiled encouragement.
This was the sexual “don’t” of affirmation—
the“you-may” and “ you-may-not ” —the thing
responsible for the slaughter of strong, brave men ;
and for the drivel of sex poets—the afflatus of
male hens.
The feeble wretch was half eaten, when they
beheld a cave, which connived at all manner of
butchery. It was dark and thrilling and cool.
They entered and sat upon a stone, and he could
not help but fondle and kiss her.
She sighed, for the meal was progressing.
***•■*
Later, he felt dizzy, and left the earth with
poetical license.
The meal was over. The houris and the glass
palaces and fountains and gems had faded. His
feet were wet.
The tide had come in, scarcely waiting for two
fools at a game.
He was half humorous, half afraid. Hero and
heroine in a cave—a tide rising, and even now
chest deep, between them and publicity.
The situation was deplorably hackneyed. Even
a writer of novelettes would require ingenuity to
fashion a romantic end to it.
Their position was dangerous, but common. To
its commonness he objected. It was so atro-
ciously vulgar !
Yet both should live or die, rather than defy
tradition.
So he told her they would live—with luck.
He told her to remove her outer garments, lest
they hamper him and her in the swim out to free-
dom and newspaper fame.
Then she remembered that she was respectable,
and had been well brought up, though she had
never forgiven her ma for such expensive indis-
cretions.
“How dare you suggest such a thing ! How
dare you !! ”
She was angry and outraged.
“But,” he protested. She would not be
pacified. She was a whimpering termagant of
sorts. No crisis could justify the removal of her
skirt in the presence of man! Death before
disrobing !
“ Damn tradition ! ” the man said, and swam
out in singlet and pants.
He cursed him who wrote the first cave story.
He cursed the successors who took a silly chivalry
and gallantry for granted—they who had reduced
a thing called heroism to the sickly absurdity of a
farce.
She remained and died., Her remains were very
wet and flat when discovered. The color had all
washed out of the boards of the Bosa (Jarey novel.
JEAN SIBI.
The Turning of the Worms.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE directors of the Oceanic Banking
Company listened in placid silence to
the platitudes of the manager, who was
reading a draft report of the year’s progress. At
a side table sat a clerk writing. From time to
time a plethoric “Hear, hear” came from the
, magnates, especially when a large sum of money
was named.
“ The net profit for the year, ” said the manager,
“ is £848,322—a sum that has never before been
realised in the history of the bank. It is extremely
gratifying to me to think that I should be con-
nected with the institution at this time when it
has reached the highest pinnacle of its prosperity,
and if, gentlemen, any of my efforts have con-
tributed to this success, I am amply repaid.”
The directors smiled their set business smiles
and made guttural sounds.
“And now,” continued the manager, “a very
pleasing duty devolves on me. That is to sug-
gest, in view of the increased responsibility which
the Board carries, that the emolument of the
directors might now be raised from £lOOO to £l2OO
a year.”
The directors creaked their chairs, and their
waistcoats expanded. The clerk started from his
chair, but sat down again as the manager con-
tinued :
“ It gives me more pleasure than I can say to
be able to announce that the bank is in a position
to do this. It is gratifying to know that the share-
holders hold the directors in such high esteem,
and I think that, considering the duties that are
imposed on you, the increase is well warranted.”
Mr. Proudie rose to his feet with a smile that
might have been large it it had not lost itself in
the flabby folds of his cheek.
“Mr. Swabjaw,” he said, “I am completely
overwhelmed by this news. It is, as you say,
extremely gratifying to know that the bank holds
its directors in such esteem. The duties may be
severe at times, but the severity is mitigated by
the pleasure of being connected with such a sound
financial institution as the Oceanic Banking Co.
It is very gratifying to learn that the net profit for
this year exceeds that of all other years. I think
my fellow directors will join me in saying that, in
return for the munificence of the bank, we will if
possible do more than ever to further the interests
of a business that we are proud to be connected
with.”
(Continued on next vage.)


KIDNEYS NEVER REST.
The kidneys never take a moment’s rest, they keep on with their great work o£ filtering out uric aci*and kidney
•i i. n ff PT . riio-ht as lon o, as we live. And so important is their work that, even though t } 0
aTtlTbeWnd nop Ao£ the system is’free fro°m danger; the hack aches, the limbs drag, the eyelids seem like
are dropsical swellings, rheumatic pains, dizzy spells, urinary troubles. The sufferer is moody, despondent and. unt
This is how the fatal Bright’s disease begins. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are .pedal kidney help; all the r eal n
power^goe's to the kidneys, and they have no action on the howels. Doan’s Pills correct unnary borders, gravel, bladder
troubles—cure backache, rheumatism, dropsy, and every kidney com-
plaint-give tone to the whole system, and make you feel brighter,
healthier and happier.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
WAVERLEY.
Mrs. F. May, 48 Ncwland Street, Waver-
ley, Sydney, says : —“ I have read the testi-
mony which I gave eight years ago, stating
my good opinion of Doan s Backacne Kidney
Pills, and I can truthfully say that every
word is correct, and I have still the same
good opinion of this remedy. I had con-
tracted a severe chill across the loins, and for
a couple of years suffered with lumbago-like
pains in the small of my back. I also had a
touch of rheumatism. But Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured me eight years ago,
and I am still quite free of every symptom of
kidney complaint. I have recommended this
great kidney remedy to numbers of sufferers,
and they all endorse my good opinion of
it.”
DOWLING STREET.
Mrs, E. Chapman, 133 Dowling Street,
Sydney, says:—“My mother suffered with
severe pains across the back and in her legs.
For six months she was very bad, and some
days would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did her no
good. We saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised, and thought we would get
some and give them a trial. After taking
the first half box, we knew they were good,
for she felt a little better, and from that on
the improvement was marked, and eight
boxes completed her cure. She is now
splendid, and can get about easily. It is
twelve months since her cure, and during
that time she has not needed to take a single
pill. We feel sure that she is cured for good. ”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles 15s. 3d.),
or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McCellan Co., Pitt Street, Sydney.
"Every
Picture
Tells co
Story.”
DOANS BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Mr. Grinder, the next oldest director, also
spoke ; so did Mr. Grummet and Mr. Plumtree.
All through the speeches the clerk chewed at
the end of his pen.
“I think,” said the manager, ‘ Jt would be
fitting to order in a little champagne and drink
success to the company. Stevens, to the
clerk, “just slip out and order half a dozen
bottles; you can keep one out in the office for the
Stevens rose from his seat and went to the door.
Instead of opening it he turned and placed his
back against it.
“ I’ve a few words to say,” he remarked.
Mr. Swabjaw raised his eyebrows. “Stevens,
he said, “ I think you’re forgetting yourself.”
“I’m not,” said Stevens, sharply. “I’ve been
listening to what has been said, and I want to
know if the clerks are going to get anything out
of this profit. I’m not speaking for myself ;I m
representing the whole staff. You’ve- been
scratching the directors’ backs and raising their
screws. What about the clerks who do all the
hard work, and get precious little for it? Aren t
you going to raise their screws?”
The directors stared aghast. Mr. Swabjaw rose
from his seat. “Leave the room, Stevens,” he
said.
“ I won’t leave the room till I’ve had my say.
You and your kind have been grinding us down
long enough. We want decent pay, and we 11
get it. If I give the word, every clerk in the
office will go on strike. How will you manage
then ? ” ; _ .
Mr. Swabjaw sank back in his chair. The
directors fidgeted uneasily. The manager rang
his bell sharply, but no one answered.
“Go,” he said, “and never let me see you
again. You’re dismissed.”
“I won’t go till I have finished. I have
here ”
“Get out,” roared the manager, “or I’ll put
you out.”
“Come on,” laughed the clerk —“come on, the
lot of you. I’m not scared.'”
The manager glanchd at the clerk’s tall figure,
and hesitated. “What do you want?” he said
weakly. _ 1
“We want decent screws,” said the clerk. “ I
have been in the bank now for thirteen years. I
am considered a pretty good officer. My salary
is £l3O per annum. Out of that I have to support
a wife and two children, and keep up a respectable
appearance. I’ve managed so far, for there has
been no sickness. If that should come I don t
know what would happen. We have to deny our-
selves every pleasure, and I can’t even afford
tram fares. There are the tellers who handle
thousands and get a bare living wage. How
many cases of embezzlement have there been in
the last two years ? Four, and all the result of
sweating. You give the directors £l2OO a year
each for.doing practically nothing. You yourself
get a large salary and do precious little for it.
There’s the responsibility, of course ; but you
shove most of that on to the accountant, and with
good clerks it doesn’t amount to much anyhow.”
The manager fairly collapsed. Such a thing
had never happened before in the history of the
bank. Mr. Proudie rose and cleared his throat.
“I think, Mr. Swabjaw,” he said, “we’ll leave
you to deal with this—this person.”
“No, you don’t,” said the clerk. “ This con-
cerns you as much as anyone.” Mr. Proudie sat
down and wiped his forehead. “The share-
holders,” continued the clerk, “get 16 percent,
for their money. In good or bad years it is the
same. In the bad years we get no rise ; in fact
we get a ‘cut’ sometimes. And the cut isn
restored when good times come. I hat isn t tair.
We have held several meetings and have drawn
up a schedule of salaries and conditions. Among
the conditions is one with regard to overtime.
We object to coming back at night for nothing
but a tea-ticket. I will leave the schedule with
you. If you take my advice, you 11 call a Board
meeting at once and settle the matter. We are
amenable to reason, but decline to be sat on any
longer. If the Board is obstinate, we go on strike,
and at a single word the branches will go on strike
too. We give you till to-morrow evening to decide.
That’s all, I think.” He handed over the schedule
and went to the door. , ,
“Stop!” thundered the manager. Ihe clerk
“ You’ll oblige me by leaving the bank straight
away. The accountant will give you your salary
to date. You’re dismissed for gross insubordina-
tion, and I’ll see that no other bank m this city
gives you employment.” ~
The clerk smiled. “If you dismiss me, the
staff goes on strike straight away.”
“ Then strike ! ” snarled the manager.
“Very good.” Stevens opened the door and
called through the office : “ Drop your pens, you
chaps, and come here.” The whole staff filed into
the room. , ~ . ,
“Mr. Swabjaw,” said Stevens, has dismissed
me for trying to better your condition and my
own. We resolved last evening that, in an event
like that, we would strike straight away. You
are still of the same mind, I presume.
A loud chorus of “Yes” was the reply. Some
of the timid juniors at the back made a non-
committal sound that might have been yes or no,
but they were few. „
Stevens turned to the manager. You see,
he said, “how things are. It is lucky for you
that this has occurred after business hours. io-
morrow when the doors open there won t he a
single clerk in the place. Tommy,’ to one of the
juniors, “ run up to the post office and send these
wires away to the branches.” _ c
“ Williams,” thundered Mr. Swabjaw, 1 for-
bid you to do anything of the kind.”
The junior shrank back and looked at oteven..
“ Ali right, Tommy,’’ said the latter, “111 see
vou come to no harm. Off with you.’
' “I forbid it, I forbid it!” cried the furious
manager ; but Tommy had gone.
“Now,” said Stevens, “we’ll get out.”
• * *
During the next half hour the Oceanic telephone
was busy calling the absent members of the Board
to a meeting. In an hour all were assembled.
Mr. Swabjaw fumed and fretted as he acquainted
the directors with this new development, and he
colored his speech with strong epithets. Such a
dastardly thing had never before happened in the
history of the bank. The man Stevens was inso-
lent, positively insolent. It was a foul conspiracy,
an underhand trick, and base ingratitude, ihe
directors looked serious. If they were to tight the
strikers they must have other men to replace
them in the morning. It was decided to wire the
branches for all available clerks. „
“ But the branches will be in the same state,
yelled the infuriated manager.
The Board groaned. A telegram was handed
in to the manager.
“ This is the beginning, he muttered fiercely.
** The Bradlaw branch has struck.”
More telegrams followed. In half-a,n-hour ail
the branches of the Oceanic had stopped work.
The directors sat late into the evening. They,
had determined to make a stand Other■ b■
were approached for assistance, hut
Union had been before them. Without excep-
tion, the officers of those institutions refused
help. Any coercion would bring about a strike
on their own premises. Finally it was decided to
insert large advertisements in the dailies for tern-
porary clerks at high salaries.
■*■***
The news spread quickly. The lar Re advertise-
ments attracted much attention, and the daily
papers had leading articles on the strike. it s
a sign of the degeneracy of the a.ge, said one,
“that such men should be allowed to dictate to
their superiors.” .
Small bodies of clerks on their way to work in
the morning discussed the matter excite Y-
was the one topic on the tramcars. The subui ban
trains were filled with excited business men, all
talking at once. Strike was in the atmosphere.
In one carriage a sharebroker and a clerk came to •
h'lWnine o’clock all the strikers had assembled
outside the bank buildings. The directors passed
in without comment. When Mr. Swabjaw strode
up a hiss started which broke into a perfect howl.
Policemen were there to protect, if necessary, the
new clerks. These last were a motley crew, and
most of them looked like broken-down ex-officials
or ardent supporters of the two-up schools. A
few seemed respectable. , „
“We are prepared to give you a last chance,
said the manager. “ With the exception of
Stevens you can all come back under the old
agree to adopt our schedule?” asked
Stevens. , . „,>>
“ No,” said the manager, it s preposterous .
There was a howl outside.
Mr. Swabjaw went in. Things appeared to be
running more smoothly than he had anticipated.
Many of the new hands had previous banking ex-
perience, and dropped into the work quickly.
The receiving counters were occupied chiefly by
members of the Board. Mr. Swabjaw flitted
about instructing this one or explaining some
point to another. He felt proud that he had so far
come out on top. By midday he could survey the
whole place with satisfaction.
The country branches were getting along some-
how. In each town the manager had remained
faithful. Most of these managers were old men
who had no sympathy with the younger genera-
At 2.30 Mr. Swabjaw received a telegram,
which read as follows :
Mild rush here on account strike. Can hold out to-day.
Bigger one expected to-morrow.
The manager had barely read the wire before he
was accosted by a man who had come m rather
hastily. ~
“ Ah Mr. Pearce,” he said, “how do you do !
“All right, thank you, Mr. Swabjaw. I wish
to close my account with you.”
The manager gasped. “Why? lie asked. Mr.
Pearce was one of the largest depositors.
“ Cash this cheque first; then I’ll tell you, said
Pearce, looking over his shoulder suspiciously.
“There are rumors of a rush here/’ he said,
shovelling his coin into a, bag. “ Depositors are
becoming frightened owing to the strike. I hey
are beginning to think there is more behind this
business than is known.” *
“ The bank is sound, Mr. Pearce.
“ I dare say ; but a big rush might
for a time, and I want to be on the safe side.
Pearce’s action reached the clerks outside.
They raised a cheer as he emerge . fq{ peo ple
By five minutes to three a n jeg j nte nt
were waiting at the counter with °1
on closing their accounts. vain. He
All the manager’s assurances were
stared anxiously at the clock. TTvervthing
At three he closed the fro,, (• door Everyth J
was safe for to-day. By 3.30 a < K
depositors had collected round the door a
to be admitted. Mr. Swab]aw ran upstairs an
put his head out of a window.
“ What do you want ? ” he.asked.
round to-
’’’The'croVdgrowled. ThenuurberwWincregnJ
everv minute. Gradually a P am their
them, and they
fists and shouted wildly. AH were aiuu
W if tikes little to start a panic. One en
call “Fire !’’ in a crowded theatre to raise a sudde
stampede. One man tells another that the c e
in a certain bank have struck, and that he wouldn t
be surprised if a rush set in. The other MBs ins
friend the same tale, adding that th ?*, Some-
bably be a rush. The third man confides in some
one else that there is going to be a rush. S
Mr. Swabjaw harangued the crowd for aU he
was worth. He quoted figures and tried to
explain the situation, but lie rang * ie
saved his breath for all the good he did Ihe
mob was as amenable to reason as a mad Cull.
But strong emotion is short-lived, ;
the people dispersed. Mr. Swabjaw wcnt down
stairs, firmly believing that his efforts had born
fruit. He found the Board, looking very grave,
discussing the situation.
“We have decided, Mr. Swabjaw, to adopt the
clerks’ schedule,” said the chairman.
Mr. Swabjaw nearly collapsed. " •„ 10
gasped. “ Give in to those rebels ? Never.
“The credit of the bank is being shaken.
Thirty of the biggest depositors have c osed then
accounts to-day. To-morrow there willbe more-
We can stand a rush, but it will take a long ti
to recover from the blow. It won t pay the ba v.
to hold out.” t
The manager Stamped about the room. it s
preposterous, preposterous ! I shall never be; ab e
to hold up my head again. It is unpardonable
weakness. By to-morrow the panic will h
subsided. Think of the discipline—oh, it s pre
posterous!”
“If you are dissatisfied. Mr. Swabjaw you can
resign. Now I shall be obliged if you will acquaint
the strikers of our resolution.”
Mr. Swabjaw hesitated. He had a comfortable
position and a large income. He must <?hoose >e-
tween that and his pride, and he chose like a wise
man. “ That man Stevens will crow, he groaned.
He opened the front door and addressed the
Union pickets who were still on duty I
Board has accepted your schedule he said so
you’d better get back to work. It s no doing ot
mine. If I had my way I’d starve before I gait
in to you. Damn the whole lot of you.
In five minutes every clerk was back at wort,
and the first bank strike was over. A crowd of
remonstrating non-unionists—the men who had
“ come to the bank’s assistance —was being im-
patiently shooed off the premises, as non-unionists
always are when the strike is ovei.
GEO. ROPER.


“I have worked on the Barrier off and on for several years, and
had to lose a good many shifts
through ill health. I could neither
eat nor sleep well. In fact, work of
any kind was out of the ouestion
until I struck a good thing in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I had only taken one
bottle when I felt a lot better. In
all, I have taken seven bottles and
now am quite well. I always tell any
one that feels off color to take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and it will put them in
working order.”
J. W. Scott,
Broken Hill, N. S. W.
Imperfectly digested food breeds poisons and im-
purities which, are quickly absorbed into the blood.
fdg
AYER’S Sa rsa par ilia
will strengthen the stomach and make the digestive juices more active.
As a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion we cannot recommend it
too strongly.
As now made, it contains no alcohol* Be sure that you get
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other kind put up in imitation of it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
f. •
BIRD'S,
Bird’s
Custard rtaSniit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
lhe Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn use since 1586.
CURES
Australian Blight, Failing Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Koad. London, Eng.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold r by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If yovu* Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
(Id. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
dfgdf
{
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours.
® Each Capsule bears the name iD®
gfd
• : : ■■■■■- * ■
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. .Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
1
DR. COLLfiS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/8
&j0ro (( T
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and Is the onlj
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
MARINE METAL POL
THE
HOUSEWIFE’S
FRIEND.
4k
«fV
o
#
MAKES
TEE HOME
BRIGHT.
Little Work, The Best Resuit,
MANUFACTURED BY
. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STEEET, MELBOUENE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King's Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Well Regulated panjilies
are fully alive to the importance of being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general,
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
Df
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/lh- (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
use (
S 3?
tea-,.
'
m:-.
til
u ■•;
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibadlt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
Rudd. Cloth, binding, posted free, 6s.
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Britisb-Jlimralasiaii
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
A CAUTIOUS COVE—
So he described himself—said to me: “I
want a windmill for the ,summer. I want
the best. I know a good article when I see
it (he didn’t) and I’m willing to pay a
fair price.”
He wrote to every maker for catalogues
and studied them all. They were all “ the
best.” The summer came—he had not
decided. In desperation he bought the
cheapest, and has been paying repair bills
ever since. He should have got an easy-
running, powerful
“STEEL WINGS,”
which has a bearing on each side of the
wind wheel and never requires repairs'.
If you require a mill for the summer,
order it now, as the time is getting short.
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring-this business
to a close, they have decided upon the conipulsorv
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
3 Double-Barrel Byeech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price. £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL qualify, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price ..£5
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 15 C
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price " £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellentstook,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES,- 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts. Cheques or'Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
0 0
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Golds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
m.
m
i
£ungTomc
The enormous Success of Owbridge’s
I-ung Tonic could not have been won,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the, most efficacious
remedy ever known. Beware of Sub-
k stitutes; ask for “ QWBRIDGE“
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE HO OTHER.
Sold everywhere
bottles at Is. ltd,,
2s 9d.,45. 6d.^&lls.
I
COPYRIGHT.


Cot Prices at Perdriao’s.
It ev er there was a time when you could get
a “heaping handful*' for yonr money it is now
at Perdriau’s. We have cut
deeply into many prices in order
to clear our stock during the re-
building, and if you are wise you’ll
take ad vantage of the opportunity.
TWEED LEGGINGS, Canvas-
lined and waterproof, Usually
4/6 ; Now 3/3.
GOLOSHES, Storm fronts.
For men, Usually 4/3; Now
3/6. For women, Usually 3/3 ;
Now 2/6.
MEN’S SANDSHOES, the
famous Black “ Champion.” Sizes
4 to 10 for 2/11.
MEN’S MACINTOSHES, stylish, cosy and
waterproof. Usually 42/- ; Now 25/-
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,"
270 George Street, Sydney,
gdf
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
-
AND OTHER
Electric
PLANT
gdf
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADu
gfdg
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Everv Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
; JaiMCS & CO.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
9
SCHNAPPS
The beverag'e
that benefits.
At all times
ask for and obtain only
MdINMES DOB3IE SN'J.CATOH
If
FOR STEAM. GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admiralty, and used by the
Largest Power Users of the World.
“SENTINEL”
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
fdgdfg
STEAM, ELECTRIC
HIGH SPEED ENGINES
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication
WILD RIDGE &
'M
T '
m.
m'y.
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E.S. & A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
YOUR INQUIRIES
■
and ORDERS along for
SPARE PARTS.
’iUBU]i|3VW SufiHHi jno|j
tel - (ill?
dfg
WARBURTON, FRANK! & CO. “"SS.""*
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATE SEND ON TYNE.
Po'stal Address:
Q.P.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 1390.
THE MIME SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Office: Mutual Life Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegraphic Ad<
“ MINE SMELTER,’
SYDNEY.
.
in Sydney
• _
■ -a
W- Mr
ir.?-.
■
AIR hand HAMMER DRILLS
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
mi*.
mm
B|?il
ik
m
.
wmmM
lifcs
"3&Sj
_■•■
iftfF
fF 31
'
}s&«*!
m. 4
The Boston Consolidated Co.’s Stamp Mill, Utah,
The LARGEST IN THE WORLD under one
roof, where
312 NISSEN STAMPS
are installed, effecting a Saving of $14,000
per year in POWER ALONE. Their metallur-
gical efficiency effects an even greater economy.
is this not worth investigation ?
N. GUTHRiDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney;
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
